Proverbs.
Chapter 19.
Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, Than he that is perverse in his lips, and is a fool. 
Also, that the soul be without knowledge, it is not good; And he that hasteth with his feet, sinneth. 
The foolishness of man perverteth his way: And his heart fretteth against the Lord. 
Wealth maketh many friends; But the poor is separated from his neighbour. 
A false witness shall not be unpunished, And he that speaketh lies shall not escape. 
Many will intreat the favour of the prince: And every man is a friend to him that giveth gifts. 
All the brethren of the poor do hate him: How much more do his friends go far from him! He pursueth them with words, yet they are wanting to him. 
He that getteth wisdom loveth his own soul: He that keepeth understanding shall find good. 
A false witness shall not be unpunished, And he that speaketh lies shall perish. 
Delight is not seemly for a fool; Much less for a servant to have rule over princes. 
The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; And it is his glory to pass over a transgression. 
The king’s wrath is as the roaring of a lion; But his favour is as dew upon the grass. 
A foolish son is the calamity of his father: And the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping. 
House and riches are the inheritance of fathers: And a prudent wife is from the Lord. 
Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; And an idle soul shall suffer hunger. 
He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his own soul; But he that despiseth his ways shall die. 
He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the Lord; And that which he hath given will he pay him again. 
Chasten thy son while there is hope, And let not thy soul spare for his crying. 
A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: For if thou deliver him, yet thou must do it again. 
Hear counsel, and receive instruction, That thou mayest be wise in thy latter end. 
There are many devices in a man’s heart; Nevertheless the counsel of the Lord, that shall stand. 
The desire of a man is his kindness: And a poor man is better than a liar. 
The fear of the Lord tendeth to life: And he that hath it shall abide satisfied; He shall not be visited with evil. 
A slothful man hideth his hand in his bosom, And will not so much as bring it to his mouth again. 
Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware: And reprove one that hath understanding, and he will understand knowledge. 
He that wasteth his father, and chaseth away his mother, Is a son that causeth shame, and bringeth reproach. 
Cease, my son, to hear the instruction That causeth to err from the words of knowledge. 
An ungodly witness scorneth judgment: And the mouth of the wicked devoureth iniquity. 
Judgments are prepared for scorners, And stripes for the back of fools. 
