1 Chronicles.
Chapter 6.
Levi’s sons were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
Kohath’s sons were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
Amram’s children were Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. Aaron’s sons were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
Eleazar was Phinehas’ father. Phinehas was Abishua’s father. 
Abishua was Bukki’s father. Bukki was Uzzi’s father. 
Uzzi was Zerahiah’s father. Zerahiah was Meraioth’s father. 
Meraioth was Amariah’s father. Amariah was Ahitub’s father. 
Ahitub was Zadok’s father. Zadok was Ahimaaz’s father. 
Ahimaaz was Azariah’s father. Azariah was Johanan’s father. 
Johanan was Azariah’s father. (Azariah is the one who served as priest in the Temple that Solomon built in Jerusalem.) 
Azariah was Amariah’s father. Amariah was Ahitub’s father. 
Ahitub was Zadok’s father. Zadok was Shallum’s father. 
Shallum was Hilkiah’s father. Hilkiah was Azariah’s father. 
Azariah was Seraiah’s father. Seraiah was Jehozadak’s father. 
Jehozadak was forced to leave his home when the LORD sent the people of Judah and Jerusalem away. Through Nebuchadnezzar, the Lord caused them all to be made prisoners in another country. 
Levi’s sons were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
The names of Gershon’s sons were Libni and Shimei. 
Kohath’s sons were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
Merari’s sons were Mahli and Mushi. This is a list of the families in the tribe of Levi. They are listed with their fathers’ names first: 
These were Gershon’s descendants: Libni was Gershon’s son. Jahath was Libni’s son. Zimmah was Jahath’s son. 
Joah was Zimmah’s son. Iddo was Joah’s son. Zerah was Iddo’s son. Jeatherai was Zerah’s son. 
These were Kohath’s descendants: Amminadab was Kohath’s son. Korah was Amminadab’s son. Assir was Korah’s son. 
Elkanah was Assir’s son. Ebiasaph was Elkanah’s son. Assir was Ebiasaph’s son. 
Tahath was Assir’s son. Uriel was Tahath’s son. Uzziah was Uriel’s son. Shaul was Uzziah’s son. 
Elkanah’s sons were Amasai and Ahimoth. 
Zophai was Elkanah’s son. Nahath was Zophai’s son. 
Eliab was Nahath’s son. Jeroham was Eliab’s son. Elkanah was Jeroham’s son. Samuel was Elkanah’s son. 
Samuel’s sons were his oldest son Joel, and Abijah. 
These are Merari’s sons: Mahli was Merari’s son, Libni was Mahli’s son, Shimei was Libni’s son, and Uzzah was Shimei’s son. 
Shimea was Uzzah’s son. Haggiah was Shimea’s son. Asaiah was Haggiah’s son. 
These are the men David chose to take care of the music at the tent of the LORD’S house after God’s Holy Box was put there. 
These men served by singing at the Holy Tent. The Holy Tent is also called the Meeting Tent. These men served until Solomon built the LORD’S Temple in Jerusalem. They served by following the rules given to them for their work. 
These are the names of the men and their sons who served with music: The descendants from the Kohath family were Heman the singer who was Joel’s son; Joel was Samuel’s son; 
Samuel was Elkanah’s son; Elkanah was Jeroham’s son; Jeroham was Eliel’s son; Eliel was Toah’s son; 
Toah was Zuph’s son; Zuph was Elkanah’s son; Elkanah was Mahath’s son; Mahath was Amasai’s son; 
Amasai was Elkanah’s son; Elkanah was Joel’s son; Joel was Azariah’s son; Azariah was Zephaniah’s son; 
Zephaniah was Tahath’s son; Tahath was Assir’s son; Assir was Ebiasaph’s son; Ebiasaph was Korah’s son; 
Korah was Izhar’s son; Izhar was Kohath’s son; Kohath was Levi’s son; Levi was Israel’s son. 
Heman’s relative was Asaph. Asaph served by Heman’s right side. Asaph was Berekiah’s son. Berekiah’s was Shimea’s son. 
Shimea was Michael’s son. Michael was Baaseiah’s son. Baaseiah was Malkijah’s son. 
Malkijah was Ethni’s son. Ethni was Zerah’s son. Zerah was Adaiah’s son. 
Adaiah was Ethan’s son. Ethan was Zimmah’s son. Zimmah was Shimei’s son. 
Shimei was Jahath’s son. Jahath was Gershon’s son. Gershon was Levi’s son. 
Merari’s descendants were the relatives of Heman and Asaph. They were the singing group on Heman’s left side. Ethan was Kishi’s son. Kishi was Abdi’s son. Abdi was Malluch’s son. 
Malluch was Hashabiah’s son. Hashabiah was Amaziah’s son. Amaziah was Hilkiah’s son. 
Hilkiah was Amzi’s son. Amzi was Bani’s son. Bani was Shemer’s son. 
Shemer was Mahli’s son. Mahli was Mushi’s son. Mushi was Merari’s son. Merari was Levi’s son. 
Heman and Asaph’s brothers were from the tribe of Levi. The tribe of Levi was also called Levites. The Levites were chosen to do the work in the Holy Tent. The Holy Tent was God’s house. 
But only Aaron’s descendants were permitted to burn incense on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense. Aaron’s descendants did all the work in the Most Holy Place in God’s house. They also did the ceremonies to make the Israelites pure. They followed all the rules and laws that Moses, God’s servant, commanded. 
These were Aaron’s sons: Eleazar was Aaron’s son. Phinehas was Eleazar’s son. Abishua was Phinehas’ son. 
Bukki was Abishua’s son. Uzzi was Bukki’s son. Zerahiah was Uzzi’s son. 
Meraioth was Zerahiah’s son. Amaraiah was Meraioth’s son. Ahitub was Amariah’s son. 
Zadok was Ahitub’s son. Ahimaaz was Zadok’s son. 
These are the places where Aaron’s descendants lived. They lived in their camps in the land that was given to them. The Kohath families got the first share of the land that was given to the Levites. 
They were given the town of Hebron and the fields around it. This was in the area of Judah. 
But the fields farther from town and the villages near the town of Hebron were given to Caleb son of Jephunneh. 
The descendants of Aaron were given the city of Hebron. Hebron was a city of safety. They were also given the cities of Libnah, Jattir, Eshtemoa, 
Hilen, Debir, 
Ashan, Juttah, and Beth Shemesh. They got all the cities and the fields around them. 
From the tribe of Benjamin they got the cities of Gibeon, Geba, Alemeth, and Anathoth. They got all the cities and the fields around them. Thirteen cities were given to the Kohath families. 
The rest of Kohath’s descendants got ten towns from half the tribe of Manasseh. 
The tribes that were the descendants of Gershon got 13 cities. They got the cities from the tribes of Issachar, Asher, Naphtali, and the part of Manasseh living in the area of Bashan. 
The tribes that were the descendants of Merari got 12 cities. They got the cities from the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun. They got them by throwing lots. 
So the Israelites gave those towns and fields to the Levites. 
All those cities came from the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin. They decided which Levite family got which city by throwing lots. 
The tribe of Ephraim gave some of the Kohath families some towns. Those towns were chosen by throwing lots. 
They were given the city of Shechem. Shechem is a city of safety. They were also given the towns of Gezer, 
Jokmeam, Beth Horon, 
Aijalon, and Gath Rimmon. They also got fields with those towns. Those towns were in the hill country of Ephraim. 
And from half the tribe of Manasseh, the Israelites gave the towns of Aner and Bileam to the Kohath families. The Kohath families also got fields with those towns. 
The Gershon families got the towns of Golan in the area of Bashan and Ashtaroth from half the tribe of Manasseh. They also got the fields near those towns. 
The Gershon families also got the towns of Kedesh, Daberath, Ramoth, and Gannim from the tribe of Issachar. They also got the fields near those towns. 
The Gershon families also got the towns of Mashal, Abdon, Hukok, and Rehob from the tribe of Asher. They also got the fields near those towns. 
The Gershon families also got the towns of Kedesh in Galilee, Hammon, and Kiriathaim from the tribe of Naphtali. They also got the fields near those towns. 
The rest of the Levites, from the Merari families, got the towns of Jokneam, Kartah, Rimmono, and Tabor from the tribe of Zebulun. They also got the fields near those towns. 
The Merari families also got the towns of Bezer in the desert, Jahzah, Kedemoth, and Mephaath from the tribe of Reuben. The tribe of Reuben lived on the east side of the Jordan River, east of the city of Jericho. These Merari families also got the fields near those towns. 
And the Merari families got the towns of Ramoth in Gilead, Mahanaim, Heshbon, and Jazer from the tribe of Gad. They also got the fields near those towns. 
