Exodus.
Chapter 26.
“The Holy Tent should be made from ten curtains. These curtains must be made from fine linen and blue, purple, and red yarn. A skilled worker should sew pictures of Cherub angels with wings into the curtains. 
Make each curtain the same size. Each curtain should be 28 cubits long and 4 cubits wide. 
Join the curtains together into two groups. Join five curtains together to make one group and join five curtains together to make the other group. 
Use blue cloth to make loops along the edge of the end curtain in one group. Do the same on the end curtain in the other group. 
There must be 50 loops on the end curtain of the first group. And there must be 50 loops on the end curtain of the other group. These loops must be opposite each other. 
Then make 50 gold rings to join the curtains together. This will join the Holy Tent together into one piece. 
“Make another tent that will cover the Holy Tent. Use eleven curtains to make this tent. Make these curtains from goat hair. 
All these curtains must be the same size. They must be 30 cubits long and 4 cubits wide. 
Join five of the curtains together into one group. Then join the other six curtains together into another group. Fold back half of the sixth curtain at the front of the Tent. 
Make 50 loops down the edge of the end curtain of one group. Do the same for the end curtain of the other group. 
Then make 50 bronze rings to join the curtains together. This will join the tent together into one piece. 
Half of the end curtain of this tent will hang down below the back edge of the Holy Tent. 
On the sides, the curtains of this tent will hang down 1 cubit below the bottom edges of the Holy Tent. So this tent will completely cover the Holy Tent. 
Make two coverings to go over the outer tent. One covering should be made from ram skins dyed red. The other covering should be made from fine leather. 
“Use acacia wood to make frames to support the Holy Tent. 
The frames should be 10 cubits high and 1 1/2 cubits wide. 
Two side poles should be joined together with cross pieces to make each frame. All the frames for the Holy Tent must be the same. 
Make 20 frames for the south side of the Holy Tent. 
And make 40 silver bases for the frames. Each frame should have two silver bases to go under it—one base for each side pole. 
Make 20 more frames for the other side (the north side) of the Holy Tent. 
And make 40 silver bases for these frames—two bases under each frame. 
Make six more frames for the back (the west side) of the Holy Tent. 
Make two frames for the corners at the back of the Holy Tent. 
The frames at the corners should be joined together at the bottom. At the top a ring will hold the frames together. Do the same for both corners. 
There will be a total of eight frames for the west end of the Tent. There will be 16 silver bases—two bases under each frame. 
“Use acacia wood and make braces for the frames of the Holy Tent. There should be five braces for the first side of the Holy Tent. 
And there should be five braces for the frames on the other side of the Holy Tent. And there should be five braces for the frames at the back (the west side) of the Holy Tent. 
The middle brace should pass through the frames from one end to the other. 
“Cover the frames with gold. And make rings for the frames to hold the braces. Make these rings from gold. Also cover the braces with gold. 
Build the Holy Tent the way I showed you on the mountain. 
“Use fine linen and make a special curtain for the inside of the Holy Tent. Use blue, purple, and red yarn and sew pictures of Cherub angels into the curtain. 
Make four posts from acacia wood, and cover the posts with gold. Put hooks made from gold on the four posts. Put four silver bases under the posts. Then hang the curtain on the gold hooks. 
Put the curtain under the gold rings. Then put the Box of the Agreement behind the curtain. This curtain will separate the Holy Place from the Most Holy Place. 
Put the mercy-cover on the Box of the Agreement in the Most Holy Place. 
“Put the special table you made outside of the curtain. The table should be on the north side of the Holy Tent. Then put the lampstand on the south side, across from the table. 
“Then make a curtain to cover the entrance to the Holy Tent. Use blue, purple, and red yarn and fine linen to make this curtain. Weave pictures into it. 
Make gold hooks for this curtain. Make five posts using acacia wood covered with gold and make five bronze bases for the five posts. 
