Numbers.
Chapter 33.
Here is a list of the places the Israelites went when they left Egypt. They were organized in groups like an army and were led by Moses and Aaron. 
Following the LORD’S command, Moses kept a record of each place they stayed before moving on to the next place. These are all the places they went: 
On the 15th day of the first month, they left Rameses. That morning after Passover, the Israelites marched out of Egypt with their arms raised in victory. All the people of Egypt saw them. 
The Egyptians were burying all the people the LORD killed. They were burying all their firstborn sons. The LORD had shown his judgment against the gods of Egypt. 
The Israelites left Rameses and traveled to Succoth. 
From Succoth they traveled to Etham. They camped there at the edge of the desert. 
They left Etham and went to Pi Hahiroth. This was near Baal Zephon. They camped near Migdol. 
They left Pi Hahiroth and walked through the middle of the sea. They went toward the desert. Then they traveled for three days through the desert of Etham. The people camped at Marah. 
They left Marah and went to Elim and camped there. There were 12 springs of water and 70 palm trees there. 
They left Elim and camped near the Red Sea. 
They left the Red Sea and camped in the western Sinai desert. 
They left there and camped at Dophkah. 
They left Dophkah and camped at Alush. 
They left Alush and camped at Rephidim. There was no water for the people to drink at that place. 
They left Rephidim and camped in the desert of Sinai. 
They left the desert of Sinai and camped at Kibroth Hattaavah. 
They left Kibroth Hattaavah and camped at Hazeroth. 
They left Hazeroth and camped at Rithmah. 
They left Rithmah and camped at Rimmon Perez. 
They left Rimmon Perez and camped at Libnah. 
They left Libnah and camped at Rissah. 
They left Rissah and camped at Kehelathah. 
They left Kehelathah and camped at Mount Shepher. 
They left Mount Shepher and camped at Haradah. 
They left Haradah and camped at Makheloth. 
They left Makheloth and camped at Tahath. 
They left Tahath and camped at Terah. 
They left Terah and camped at Mithcah. 
They left Mithcah and camped at Hashmonah. 
They left Hashmonah and camped at Moseroth. 
They left Moseroth and camped at Bene Jaakan. 
They left Bene Jaakan and camped at Hor Haggidgad. 
They left Hor Haggidgad and camped at Jotbathah. 
They left Jotbathah and camped at Abronah. 
They left Abronah and camped at Ezion Geber. 
They left Ezion Geber and camped at Kadesh, in the desert of Zin. 
They left Kadesh and camped at Hor. This was the mountain at the border of the country of Edom. 
Aaron the priest obeyed the LORD and went up Mount Hor. Aaron died at that place on the first day of the fifth month. That was the 40th year after the Israelites had left Egypt. 
Aaron was 123 years old when he died on Mount Hor. 
Arad was a town in the Negev, in the land of Canaan. The Canaanite king in that place heard that the Israelites were coming. 
The people left Mount Hor and camped at Zalmonah. 
They left Zalmonah and camped at Punon. 
They left Punon and camped at Oboth. 
They left Oboth and camped at Iye Abarim. This was at the border of the country of Moab. 
They left Iye Abarim and camped at Dibon Gad. 
They left Dibon Gad and camped at Almon Diblathaim. 
They left Almon Diblathaim and camped on the mountains of Abarim near Nebo. 
They left the mountains of Abarim and camped in the Jordan Valley in Moab. This was near the Jordan River across from Jericho. 
They camped by the Jordan River in the Jordan Valley in Moab. Their camp went from Beth Jeshimoth to Acacia Field. 
There, the LORD spoke to Moses and said, 
“Speak to the Israelites and tell them this: You will cross the Jordan River. You will go into the land of Canaan. 
You will take the land from the people you find there. You must destroy all of their carved statues and idols. You must destroy all of their high places. 
You will take the land and you will settle there, because I am giving this land to you. It will belong to your family groups. 
Each of your family groups will get part of the land. You will throw lots to decide which family group gets each part of the country. Large family groups will get large parts of the land. Small family groups will get small parts of the land. The lots will show which family group gets which part of the land. Each tribe will get its part of the land. 
“You must force these other people to leave the country. If you let them stay in your country, they will bring many troubles to you. They will be like a needle in your eye and a thorn in your side. They will bring many troubles to the country where you will be living. 
I showed you what I would do—and I will do that to you!” 
