Isaiah.
Chapter 59.
Look, the LORD’S power is enough to save you. He can hear you when you ask him for help. 
It is your sins that separate you from your God. He turns away from you when he sees them. 
That’s because your hands are covered with blood from the people you murdered. You tell lies and say evil things. 
You can’t be trusted, even in court. You lie about each other and depend on false arguments to win your cases. You create pain and produce wickedness. 
You hatch evil, like eggs from a poisonous snake. Anyone who eats the eggs will die. And if you break one of them open, a poisonous snake will come out. Your lies are like spider webs. 
They cannot be used for clothes, and you cannot cover yourself with them. Your hands are always busy sinning and hurting others. 
Your feet run toward evil. You are always ready to kill innocent people. You think of nothing but evil. Everywhere you go you cause trouble and ruin. 
You don’t know how to live in peace. You don’t do what is right and fair. You are crooked, and anyone who lives like that will never know true peace. 
All fairness and goodness is gone. There is only darkness around us, so we must wait for the light. We hope for a bright light, but all we have is darkness. 
We are like people without eyes. We walk into walls like blind people. We stumble and fall as if it was night. Even in the daylight, we cannot see. At noontime, we fall like dead men. 
We are always complaining; we growl like bears and moan like doves. We are waiting for justice, but there is none. We are waiting to be saved, but salvation is still far away. 
That’s because we committed crimes against our God. Our own sins speak out against us. We know we are guilty. We know we have sinned. 
We rebelled against the LORD and lied to him. We turned away from our God and left him. We planned to hurt others and to rebel against God. From hearts filled with lies, we talked about it and made our plans. 
We pushed Justice away. Fairness stands off in the distance. Truth has fallen in the streets. Goodness is not allowed in the city. 
Loyalty is gone, and people who try to do good are robbed. The LORD looked and saw there was no justice. He did not like what he saw. 
He did not see anyone speak up for the people. He was shocked to see that no one stood up for them. So with his own power he saved them. His desire to do what is right gave him strength. 
He put on the armor of goodness, the helmet of salvation, the uniform of punishment, and the coat of strong love. 
He will give his enemies the punishment they deserve. They will feel his anger. He will punish all his enemies. People along the coast will get the punishment they deserve. 
People from the west to the east will fear the LORD and respect his Glory. He will come quickly, like a fast-flowing river driven by a wind from the LORD. 
Then a redeemer will come to Zion to save the people of Jacob who have turned away from sin. 
The LORD says, “As for me, this is the agreement that I will make with these people. I promise my Spirit that I put on you and my words that I put in your mouth will never leave you. They will be with you and your children and your children’s children, for now and forever. 
