Psalm.
Chapter 50.
One of Asaph’s songs. The LORD God Most Powerful has spoken. He calls to everyone on earth, from where the sun rises to where it sets. 
God appeared from Zion, the city of perfect beauty. 
Our God is coming and will not keep quiet. Fire burns in front of him. There is a great storm around him. 
He tells the sky and the earth to be witnesses as he judges his people. 
He says, “My followers, gather around me. Come, my worshipers, who made an agreement with me.” 
God is the judge, and the skies tell how fair he is. Selah 
God says, “My people, listen to me! People of Israel, I will show my evidence against you. I am God, your God. 
The problem I have with you is not your sacrifices or the burnt offerings you bring to me everyday. 
Why would I want more bulls from your barns or goats from your pens? 
I already own all the animals in the forest. I own all the animals on a thousand hills. 
I know every bird in the mountains. Everything that moves in the fields is mine. 
If I were hungry, I would not ask you for food. I already own the world and everything in it. 
I don’t eat the meat of bulls or drink the blood of goats.” 
You made promises to God Most High, so give him what you promised. Bring your sacrifices and thank offerings. 
God says, “Call me when trouble comes. I will help you, and you will honor me.” 
But God says to the wicked, “Stop quoting my laws! Stop talking about my agreement! 
You hate for me to tell you what to do. You ignore what I say. 
You see a thief and run to join him. You jump into bed with those who commit adultery. 
You say evil things and tell lies. 
You sit around talking about people, finding fault with your own brothers. 
When you did these things, I said nothing. So you thought that I was just like you. But I will not be quiet any longer. I will correct you and make clear what I have against you. 
You people who have forgotten God, understand what I am telling you, or I will tear you apart, and no one will be able to save you! 
Whoever gives a thank offering shows me honor. And whoever decides to live right will see my power to save.” 
