2 Kings.
Chapter 15.
King Azariah son of Amaziah of Judah became king in the 27th year that Jeroboam was king of Israel. 
Azariah was 16 years old when he began to rule. He ruled 52 years in Jerusalem. His mother was named Jecoliah of Jerusalem. 
Azariah did what the LORD said was right, just as his father Amaziah had done. 
But he did not destroy the high places. People still made sacrifices and burned incense in these places of worship. 
The LORD caused King Azariah to become sick with leprosy. He was a leper until the day he died. Azariah lived in a separate house. His son Jotham was in charge of the king’s palace, and he judged the people. 
All the great things that Azariah did are written in the book, The History of the Kings of Judah. 
Azariah died and was buried with his ancestors in the City of David. Azariah’s son Jotham became the new king after him. 
Zechariah son of Jeroboam ruled over Samaria in Israel for six months. This was during the 38th year that Azariah was king of Judah. 
Zechariah did what the LORD said was wrong. He did the same things his ancestors did. He did not stop committing the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat who caused Israel to sin. 
Shallum son of Jabesh made plans against Zechariah. Shallum killed Zechariah in Ibleam. Shallum became the new king. 
All the other things that Zechariah did are written in the book, The History of the Kings of Israel. 
In this way the LORD’S word came true. He had told Jehu that four generations of his descendants would be kings of Israel. 
Shallum son of Jabesh became king of Israel during the 39th year that Uzziah was king of Judah. Shallum ruled for one month in Samaria. 
Menahem son of Gadi came up from Tirzah to Samaria and killed Shallum son of Jabesh. Then Menahem became the new king after him. 
All the things Shallum did, including his plans against Zechariah, are written in the book, The History of the Kings of Israel. 
Menahem defeated Tiphsah and the area around it. The people refused to open the city gate for him. So Menahem defeated them and ripped open all the pregnant women in that city. 
Menahem son of Gadi became king over Israel during the 39th year that Azariah was king of Judah. Menahem ruled ten years in Samaria. 
Menahem did what the LORD said was wrong. He did not stop committing the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat who caused Israel to sin. 
King Pul of Assyria came to fight against Israel. Menahem gave Pul 75,000 pounds of silver so that Pul would support him and help him gain complete control of the kingdom. 
Menahem raised the money by making all the rich and powerful men pay taxes. He taxed each man 20 ounces of silver and gave the money to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria left and did not stay there in Israel. 
All the great things that Menahem did are written in the book, The History of the Kings of Israel. 
Menahem died and was buried with his ancestors. His son Pekahiah became the new king after him. 
Pekahiah son of Menahem became king over Israel in Samaria during the 50th year that Azariah was king of Judah. Pekahiah ruled two years. 
He did what the LORD said was wrong. He did not stop committing the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat that caused Israel to sin. 
The commander of Pekahiah’s army was Pekah son of Remaliah. Pekah killed Pekahiah in Samaria at the king’s palace. Pekah had 50 men from Gilead with him when he killed Pekahiah. Then Pekah became the new king after him. 
All the great things Pekahiah did are written in the book, The History of the Kings of Israel. 
Pekah son of Remaliah began to rule over Israel in Samaria during the 52nd year that Azariah was king of Judah. Pekah ruled 20 years. 
Pekah did what the LORD said was wrong. He did not stop committing the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat who caused Israel to sin. 
King Tiglath Pileser of Assyria came to fight against Israel while Pekah was king of Israel. Tiglath Pileser captured Ijon, Abel Bethmaacah, Janoah, Kedesh, Hazor, Gilead, Galilee, and all the area of Naphtali. He took the people from these places as prisoners to Assyria. 
Hoshea son of Elah made plans against Pekah son of Remaliah and killed him. Then Hoshea became the new king. This was during the 20th year that Jotham son of Uzziah was king of Judah. 
All the great things that Pekah did are written in the book, The History of the Kings of Israel. 
Jotham son of Uzziah became king of Judah. This was during the second year that Pekah son of Remaliah was king of Israel. 
Jotham was 25 years old when he became king. He ruled 16 years in Jerusalem. His mother was named Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok. 
Jotham did what the LORD said was right, just as his father Uzziah had done. 
But he did not destroy the high places. The people still made sacrifices and burned incense at those places of worship. Jotham built the upper gate of the LORD’S Temple. 
All the great things that Jotham did are written in the book, The History of the Kings of Judah. 
At that time the LORD sent King Rezin of Aram and Pekah son of Remaliah to fight against Judah. 
Jotham died and was buried with his ancestors in the City of David, his ancestor. Jotham’s son Ahaz became the new king after him. 
