Psalm.
Chapter 89.
A maskil from Ethan the Ezrahite. I will sing forever about the LORD’S love. I will sing about his faithfulness forever and ever! 
I will say, “Your faithful love will last forever. Your loyalty is like the sky—there is no end to it!” 
You said, “I made an agreement with my chosen king. I made this promise to my servant David: 
‘There will always be someone from your family to rule. I will make your kingdom continue forever and ever.’” Selah 
LORD, the heavens praise you for the amazing things you do. The assembly of holy ones sings about your loyalty. 
No one in heaven is equal to the LORD. None of the “gods” can compare to the LORD. 
When God’s holy ones—the angels around his throne—meet together, they fear and respect him; he is more awesome than all those around him. 
LORD God All-Powerful, there is no one like you. You are strong, LORD, and always faithful. 
You rule the stormy sea. You can calm its angry waves. 
You defeated Rahab. You scattered your enemies with your own powerful arm. 
Everything in heaven and earth belongs to you. You made the world and everything in it. 
You created everything north and south. Mount Tabor and Mount Hermon sing praises to your name. 
You have the power! Your power is great! Victory is yours! 
Your kingdom is built on truth and justice. Love and faithfulness are servants before your throne. 
LORD, your loyal followers are happy. They live in the light of your kindness. 
Your name always makes them happy. They praise your goodness. 
You are their amazing strength. Their power comes from you. 
The king, our protector, belongs to the LORD, who is the Holy One of Israel. 
Lord, you once spoke in a vision to your followers: “I have made a young soldier strong. From among my people I chose him for an important position. 
I have found my servant David and anointed him as king with my special oil. 
I will support him with my right hand, and my arm will make him strong. 
So no enemy will ever control him. The wicked will never defeat him. 
I will destroy his enemies before his eyes. I will defeat those who hate him. 
I will always love and support him. I will always make him strong. 
I will put him in charge of the sea. He will control the rivers. 
He will say to me, ‘You are my father. You are my God, my Rock, my Savior.’ 
And I will make him my firstborn son. He will be the great king on earth. 
My love will protect him forever. My agreement with him will never end. 
I will make his family continue forever. His kingdom will last as long as the skies. 
If his descendants stop following my law and stop obeying my commands, 
if they break my laws and ignore my commands, 
I will punish them severely for their sins and wrongs. 
But I will never take my love from him. I will never stop being loyal to him. 
I will not break my agreement with David. I will never change what I said. 
By my holiness, I made a promise to him, and I would not lie to David. 
His family will continue forever. His kingdom will last as long as the sun. 
Like the moon, it will continue forever. The sky is a witness to the agreement that can be trusted.” Selah 
But now, Lord, you have become angry with your chosen king, and you have left him all alone. 
You ended the agreement you made with your servant. You threw the king’s crown into the dirt. 
You pulled down the walls of his city. You destroyed all his fortresses. 
Everyone passing by steals from him. His neighbors laugh at him. 
You made all the king’s enemies happy and let his enemies win the war. 
You helped them defend themselves. You did not help your king win the battle. 
You did not let him win. You threw his throne to the ground. 
You cut his life short. You shamed him. Selah 
LORD, how long will this continue? Will you ignore us forever? Will your anger burn like a fire forever? 
Remember how short my life is. You created us to live a short life and then die. 
Is there anyone alive who will never die? Will anyone escape the grave? Selah 
Lord, where is the love you showed in the past? You promised David that you would be loyal to his family. 
My Lord, please remember how people insulted your servant. LORD, I had to listen to all the insults from your enemies. They insulted your chosen king wherever he went. 
Praise the LORD forever! Amen and Amen! 
