Proverbs.
Chapter 13.
A wise son listens to his father’s advice, but a proud son will not listen to correction. 
People get good things for the words they say, but those who cannot be trusted say only bad things. 
People who are careful about what they say will save their lives, but those who speak without thinking will be destroyed. 
Lazy people always want things but never get them. Those who work hard get plenty. 
Good people hate lies, but the wicked do evil, shameful things. 
Goodness protects honest people, but evil destroys those who love to sin. 
Some people pretend they are rich, but they have nothing. Others pretend they are poor, but they are really rich. 
The rich might have to pay a ransom to save their lives, but the poor never receive such threats. 
The light of those who do right shines brighter and brighter, but the lamp of the wicked becomes darker and darker. 
Pride causes arguments, but those who listen to others are wise. 
Money gained by cheating others will soon be gone. Money earned through hard work will grow and grow. 
Hope that is delayed makes you sad, but a wish that comes true fills you with joy. 
Those who reject a command hurt themselves; those who respect a command will be rewarded. 
The teaching of the wise is a source of life; their words will save you from deadly traps. 
People like a person with good sense, but life is hard for someone who cannot be trusted. 
Wise people always think before they do anything, but fools show how stupid they are by what they do. 
Disaster will catch up to the wicked messenger, but a runner who can be trusted will bring peace. 
If you refuse to learn from your mistakes, you will be poor, and no one will respect you. If you listen when you are criticized, you will be honored. 
People are happy when they get what they want. But stupid people want nothing but evil, and they refuse to change. 
Be friends with those who are wise, and you will become wise. Choose fools to be your friends, and you will have trouble. 
Trouble chases sinners wherever they go, but good things happen to good people. 
It is good to have something to pass down to your grandchildren. But wealth hidden away by sinners will be given to those who live right. 
The poor might have good land that produces plenty of food, but bad decisions can take it away. 
If you don’t correct your children, you don’t love them. If you love them, you will be quick to discipline them. 
Good people will have plenty to eat, but the wicked will go hungry. 
