1 Chronicles.
Chapter 7.
Issachar had four sons. Their names were Tola, Puah, Jashub, and Shimron. 
Tola’s sons were Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam, and Samuel. They were all leaders of their families. Those men and their descendants were strong soldiers. Their families grew. By the time David was king, there were 22,600 men ready for war. 
Uzzi’s son was Izrahiah. Izrahiah’s sons were Michael, Obadiah, Joel, and Isshiah. All five of them were leaders of their families. 
Their family history shows they had 36,000 soldiers ready for war. They had a large family because they had many wives and children. 
The family history shows there were 87,000 strong soldiers in all the tribes of Issachar. 
Benjamin had three sons. Their names were Bela, Beker, and Jediael. 
Bela had five sons. Their names were Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth, and Iri. They were leaders of their families. Their family history shows they had 22,034 soldiers. 
Beker’s sons were Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth, and Alemeth. They all were Beker’s children. 
Their family history shows who the family leaders were. And it also shows they had 20,200 soldiers. 
Jediael’s son was Bilhan. Bilhan’s sons were Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Kenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish, and Ahishahar. 
All of Jediael’s sons were leaders of their families. They had 17,200 soldiers ready for war. 
The Shuppites and Huppites were the descendants of Ir. Hushim was the son of Aher. 
Naphtali’s sons were Jahziel, Guni, Jezer, and Shallum. And these are the descendants of Bilhah. 
These are Manasseh’s descendants: Manasseh’s Aramean slave woman had a son named Asriel. She also bore Makir, the father of Gilead. 
Makir married a woman from the Huppites and Shuppites. Makir’s sister was named Maacah. The name of the second was Zelophehad, who had only daughters. 
Makir’s wife Maacah had a son. She named this son Peresh. His brother was named Sheresh. The sons of Sheresh were Ulam and Rakem. 
Ulam’s son was Bedan. These were the descendants of Gilead. Gilead was Makir’s son. Makir was Manasseh’s son. 
Makir’s sister Hammoleketh had Ishhod, Abiezer, and Mahlah. 
Shemida’s sons were Ahian, Shechem, Likhi, and Aniam. 
These were the names of Ephraim’s descendants. Ephraim’s son was Shuthelah. Shuthelah’s son was Bered. Bered’s son was Tahath. 
Tahath’s son was Eleadah. Eleadah’s son was Tahath. Tahath’s son was Zabad. Zabad’s son was Shuthelah. Some men who grew up in the city of Gath killed Ezer and Elead. This happened because Ezer and Elead went there to steal cattle and sheep from those men in Gath. 
Ephraim was the father of Ezer and Elead. He cried for many days because Ezer and Elead were dead. Ephraim’s family came to comfort him. 
Then Ephraim had sexual relations with his wife. She became pregnant and had a son. Ephraim named this new son Beriah because something bad had happened to his family. 
Ephraim’s daughter was Sheerah. Sheerah built Lower Beth Horon and Upper Beth Horon and Lower Uzzen Sheerah and Upper Uzzen Sheerah. 
Rephah was Ephraim’s son. Resheph was Rephah’s son. Telah was Resheph’s son. Tahan was Telah’s son. 
Ladan was Tahan’s son. Ammihud was Ladan’s son. Elishama was Ammihud’s son. 
Nun was Elishama’s son. Joshua was Nun’s son. 
These are the cities and lands where Ephraim’s descendants lived: Bethel and the villages near it, Naaran to the east, Gezer and the villages near it on the west, and Shechem and the villages near it all the way to Ayyah and the villages near it. 
Along the borders of Manasseh’s land were the towns of Beth Shan, Taanach, Megiddo, and Dor, and the small towns near them. The descendants of Joseph lived in these towns. Joseph was the son of Israel. 
Asher’s sons were Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, and Beriah. Their sister was named Serah. 
Beriah’s sons were Heber and Malkiel. Malkiel was Birzaith’s father. 
Heber was the father of Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham, and of their sister Shua. 
Japhlet’s sons were Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath. These were Japhlet’s children. 
Shomer’s sons were Ahi, Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram. 
Shomer’s brother was Helem. Helem’s sons were Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal. 
Zophah’s sons were Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah, 
Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Beera. 
Jether’s sons were Jephunneh, Pispah, and Ara. 
Ulla’s sons were Arah, Hanniel, and Rizia. 
All these men were descendants of Asher. They were leaders of their families. They were the best men. They were soldiers and great leaders. Their family history shows 26,000 soldiers ready for war. 
