Amos.
Chapter 1.
This is the message of Amos, one of the shepherds from the city Tekoa. He saw visions about Israel during the time that Uzziah was king of Judah and Jeroboam son of Joash was king of Israel. This was two years before the earthquake. 
Amos said, “The LORD will shout like a lion in Zion. His loud voice will roar from Jerusalem. The green pastures of the shepherds will turn brown and die. Even Mount Carmel will become dry.” 
This is what the LORD says: “I will definitely punish the people of Damascus for the many crimes they did. They crushed the people of Gilead with iron threshing tools. 
So I will start a fire at Hazael’s house that will destroy the great palaces of Ben-Hadad. 
“I will also break open the gates of Damascus and remove the one who sits on the throne in the Valley of Aven. I will remove the symbol of power from Beth Eden, and the Arameans will be defeated and taken back to Kir.” This is what the LORD said. 
This is what the LORD says: “I will definitely punish the people of Gaza for the many crimes they did. They took an entire nation of people and sent them as slaves to Edom. 
So I will start a fire at the wall of Gaza that will destroy the high towers in Gaza. 
And I will destroy the one who sits on the throne in Ashdod. I will destroy the king who holds the scepter in Ashkelon. I will punish the people of Ekron. Then the Philistines who are still left alive will die.” This is what the Lord GOD said. 
This is what the LORD says: “I will definitely punish the people of Tyre for the many crimes they did. They took an entire nation and sent them as slaves to Edom. They did not remember the agreement they had made with their brothers. 
So I will start a fire at the walls of Tyre that will destroy the high towers in Tyre.” 
This is what the LORD says: “I will definitely punish the people of Edom for their many crimes. Edom chased his brother with the sword, and he showed no mercy. His anger never stopped. He kept tearing and tearing at Israel like a wild animal. 
So I will start a fire at Teman that will destroy the high towers of Bozrah.” 
This is what the LORD says: “I will definitely punish the Ammonites for the many crimes they did. They killed the pregnant women in Gilead. The Ammonites did this so that they could take that land and make their country larger. 
So I will start a fire at the wall of Rabbah that will destroy the high towers of Rabbah. Troubles will come to them like a whirlwind into their country. 
Then their kings and leaders will be captured. They will all be taken together.” This is what the LORD said. 
