Psalm.
Chapter 40.
To the director: A song of David. I called to the LORD, and he heard me. He heard my cries. 
He lifted me out of the grave. He lifted me from that muddy place. He picked me up, put me on solid ground, and kept my feet from slipping. 
He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see what he did and worship him. They will put their trust in the LORD. 
Great blessings belong to those who trust in the LORD, for those who do not turn to demons and false gods for help. 
LORD my God, you have done many amazing things! You have made great plans for us—too many to list. I could talk on and on about them, because there are too many to count. 
Lord, you made me understand this: You don’t really want sacrifices and grain offerings. You don’t want burnt offerings and sin offerings. 
So I said, “Here I am, ready to do what was written about me in the book. 
My God, I am happy to do whatever you want. I never stop thinking about your teachings.” 
I told the good news of victory to the people in the great assembly. And, LORD, you know that I will never stop telling that good news. 
I told about the good things you did. I did not hide these things in my heart. I spoke of how you can be trusted to save us. I did not hide your love and loyalty from those in the great assembly. 
LORD, do not hide your mercy from me. Let your love and loyalty always protect me. 
Troubles have surrounded me. They are too many to count! My sins have caught me, and I cannot escape them. They are more than the hairs on my head. I have lost my courage. 
Please, LORD, rescue me! LORD, hurry and help me! 
People are trying to kill me. Please disappoint them. Humiliate them completely! They wanted to hurt me. Make them run away in shame! 
May those who make fun of me be too embarrassed to speak! 
But may those who come to you be happy and rejoice. May those who love being saved by you always be able to say, “Praise the LORD!” 
My Lord, I am only a poor, helpless man, but please pay attention to me. You are my helper, the one who can save me. My God, don’t be too late. 
