Genesis.
Chapter 14.
Amraphel was the king of Babylonia, Arioch was the king of Ellasar, Kedorlaomer was the king of Elam, and Tidal was the king of Goiim. 
All these kings fought a war against King Bera of Sodom: King Birsha of Gomorrah, King Shinab of Admah, King Shemeber of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela. (Bela is also called Zoar.) 
All these kings joined their armies in the Valley of Siddim. (The Valley of Siddim is now the Salt Sea.) 
These kings had served Kedorlaomer for twelve years. But in the 13th year, they all rebelled against him. 
So in the 14th year, King Kedorlaomer and the kings with him came to fight against them. Kedorlaomer and the kings with him defeated the Rephaites in Ashteroth Karnaim. They also defeated the Zuzites in Ham. They defeated the Emites in Shaveh Kiriathaim. 
And they defeated the Horites who lived in the area from the hill country of Seir to El Paran. (El Paran is near the desert.) 
Then King Kedorlaomer turned back, went to En Mishpat (that is, Kadesh), and defeated the Amalekites. He also defeated the Amorites living in Hazezon Tamar. 
At that time the kings of Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, Zeboiim, and Bela (Zoar) joined together to fight against their enemies in the Valley of Siddim. 
They fought against King Kedorlaomer of Elam, King Tidal of Goiim, King Amraphel of Babylonia, and King Arioch of Ellasar. So there were four kings fighting against five. 
There were many holes filled with tar in the Valley of Siddim. When the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah and their armies ran away, some of the soldiers fell into these holes, but the others ran away to the mountains. 
So Kedorlaomer and his armies took everything that the people of Sodom and Gomorrah owned. They took all their food and clothing and left. 
Lot, the son of Abram’s brother, was living in Sodom, and they captured him. They also took everything he owned and left. 
One of the men who had escaped went to Abram the Hebrew and told him what happened. Abram was camped near the trees of Mamre the Amorite. Mamre, Eshcol, and Aner had made an agreement to help each other, and they had also signed an agreement to help Abram. 
When Abram learned that Lot was captured, he called all of his family together. There were 318 trained soldiers. He led the men and chased the enemy all the way to the town of Dan. 
That night he and his men made a surprise attack against the enemy. They defeated them and chased them to Hobah, north of Damascus. 
Then Abram brought back everything the enemy had stolen, as well as the women and servants, his nephew Lot, and everything Lot owned. 
Then Abram went home after he defeated Kedorlaomer and the kings with him. On his way home, the king of Sodom went out to meet him in the Valley of Shaveh. (This is now called King’s Valley.) 
Melchizedek, the king of Salem and a priest of God Most High, also went to meet Abram. He brought bread and wine. 
He blessed Abram and said, “Abram, may you be blessed by God Most High, the one who made heaven and earth. 
And we praise God Most High, who helped you defeat your enemies.” Abram gave Melchizedek one-tenth of everything he had taken during the battle. 
Then the king of Sodom told Abram, “Give me my people who were captured. But you can keep everything else.” 
But Abram said to the king of Sodom, “I promise to the LORD, the God Most High, the one who made heaven and earth. 
I promise that I will not keep anything that is yours—not even a thread or a sandal strap! I don’t want you to say, ‘I made Abram rich.’ 
The only thing I will accept is the food that my young men have eaten, but you should give the other men their share. Take what we won in battle and give some to Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre. These men helped me in the battle.” 
