Proverbs.
Chapter 10.
The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes his father rejoice but a foolish son brings grief to his mother. 
Treasures accumulated by wickedness have no value, but doing what is right keeps you from death. 
Yahweh does not let the soul of the righteous person go hungry, but he frustrates the cravings of the wicked. 
A lazy hand causes a person to be poor, but the hand of the diligent person gains riches. 
A wise son gathers a crop in the summer, but it is disgraceful for him to sleep during harvest. 
Gifts from God are upon the head of the righteous person, but the mouth of the wicked covers up violence. 
The righteous person makes those who remember him happy, but the name of the wicked will rot away. 
Those who are sensible accept commands, but a talkative fool will come to ruin. 
He who walks in integrity walks in safety, but the one who makes his ways crooked, he will be found out. 
He who winks the eye causes grief, but a talkative fool will be thrown down. 
The mouth of the righteous person is a water spring of life, but the mouth of the wicked covers up violence. 
Hatred stirs up conflicts, but love covers over all offenses. 
Wisdom is found on the lips of a discerning person, but a rod is for the back of the one who has no sense. 
Wise men store up knowledge, but the mouth of a fool brings destruction near. 
The wealth of a rich man is his fortified city; the poverty of the poor is their destruction. 
The wage of the righteous person leads to life; the profit of the wicked leads them to sin. 
There is a path to life for the one who follows discipline, but the one who rejects correction is led astray. 
Whoever conceals hatred has lying lips, and whoever spreads slander is a fool. 
When there are many words, transgression is not lacking, but he who is careful in what he says is wise. 
The tongue of the righteous person is pure silver; there is little value in the heart of the wicked. 
The lips of the righteous person nourish many, but fools die because of their lack of sense. 
The good gifts of Yahweh bring wealth and he adds no pain to it. 
Wickedness is a game a fool plays, but wisdom is a pleasure to a man of understanding. 
The fear of the wicked person will overtake him, but the desire of righteous people will be granted. 
The wicked are like the storm that passes by, and they are no more, but the righteous person is a foundation that lasts forever. 
Like vinegar on the teeth and smoke in the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him. 
The fear of Yahweh prolongs life, but the years of the wicked will be short. 
The hope of righteous people is their joy, but the years of wicked people will be short. 
The way of Yahweh protects those who have integrity, but it is destruction for the wicked. 
The righteous person will never be overthrown, but the wicked will not remain in the land. 
Out of the mouth of the righteous person comes the fruit of wisdom, but the perverse tongue will be cut out. 
The lips of the righteous person know what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked, they know what is perverse. 
