Proverbs.
Chapter 25.
These are more proverbs of Solomon, copied by the men of Hezekiah, king of Judah. 
It is the glory of God to conceal a matter, but the glory of kings to search it out. 
Like the heavens are for height and the earth is for depth, so the heart of kings is unsearchable. 
Remove the dross from the silver and a metal worker can use the silver in his craft. 
Even so, remove wicked people from the presence of the king and his throne will be established by doing what is right. 
Do not honor yourself in the king's presence and do not stand in the place designated for great people. 
It is better for him to say to you, “Come up here,” than for him to humiliate you before a nobleman. What you have witnessed, 
do not bring quickly to trial. For what will you do in the end when your neighbor puts you to shame? 
Argue your case between you and your neighbor himself and do not disclose another's secret, 
or else the one who hears you will bring shame upon you and an evil report about you that cannot be silenced. 
Apples of gold in settings of silver is a word spoken in the right situation. 
A gold ring or jewelry made of fine gold is a wise rebuke to a listening ear. 
Like the cold of snow at harvest time is a faithful messenger for those who sent him; he brings back the life of his masters. 
Clouds and wind without rain is the one who boasts about a gift he does not give. 
With patience a ruler can be persuaded and a soft tongue can break a bone. 
If you find honey, eat just enough— otherwise, having too much of it, you vomit it up. 
Do not set your foot in your neighbor's house too often, he may become tired of you and hate you. 
A man who bears false witness against his neighbor is like a club used in war, or a sword, or a sharp arrow. 
An unfaithful man in whom you trust in a time of trouble is like a bad tooth or a foot that slips. 
Like a person who takes off a garment in cold weather, or like vinegar poured upon carbonate of soda, is the one who sings songs to a heavy heart. 
If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink, 
for you will shovel coals of fire on his head and Yahweh will reward you. 
As surely as the north wind brings rain, so a tongue that tells secrets will result in angry faces. 
It is better to live on a corner of the roof than in a house shared with a quarreling wife. 
Like cold waters to one who is thirsty, so is good news from a far country. 
Like a fouled spring or a ruined fountain is a righteous person tottering before wicked people. 
It is not good to eat too much honey; that is like searching for honor after honor. 
A person without self-control is like a city breached and without walls. 
