2 Samuel.
Chapter 9.
And David said, Is there yet any one that is left of the house of Saul, that I may show him kindness for the sake of Jonathan? 
And the house of Saul had a servant whose name was Ziba; and they called him unto David; and the king said unto him, Art thou Ziba? And be said, Thy servant is it. 
And the king said, Is there no one left any more of the house of Saul, that I may show him the kindness of God! And Ziba said unto the king, There is yet a son of Jonathan, lame on both feet. 
And the king said unto him, Where is he? And Ziba said unto the king, Behold, he is in the house of Machir, the son of 'Ammiel, in Lo-debar. 
And king David sent, and had him taken out of the house of Machir, the son of 'Ammiel, from Lo-debar. 
And Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came unto David, and he fell on his face, and bowed himself. And David said, Mephibosheth; And he answered, Here is thy servant! 
And David said unto him, Fear not; for I will surely show thee kindness for the sake of Jonathan thy father, and I will restore unto thee all the land of Saul thy father; and thou shalt eat bread at my table continually. 
And he bowed himself, and said, What is thy servant, that thou shouldst turn thy regard unto such a dead dog as I am? 
Then called the king for Ziba, Saul's servant, and said unto him, all that hath pertained to Saul and to all his house have I given unto thy master's son. 
And thou shalt till for him the land, thou, and thy sons, and thy servants, and thou shalt bring in the product, that thy master's son may have bread which he can eat; but Mephibosheth thy master's son shall eat continually bread at my table. Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. 
And Ziba said unto the king, In accordance with all that my Lord the king may command his servant, so will thy servant do. And Mephibosheth said the king shall eat at my table, as one of the king's sons. 
And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Micha. And all that dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants unto Mephibosheth. 
And Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem; for he ate continually at the king's table; and he was lame on both his feet. 
