Genesis.
Chapter 11.
And the whole earth was of one language, and of one kind of words. 
And it came to pass, as they journeyed toward the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and they dwelt there. 
And they said to one another, Go to, let us make bricks, and burn them thoroughly. And thus the brick served them for stone, and slime served them for mortar. 
And they said, Go to, let us build ourselves a city, and a tower, the top of which may reach unto heaven; and let us make ourselves a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth. 
And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of man were building. 
And the Lord said, Behold, it is one people, and they have all one language, and this is the first thing they undertake to do; and now shall they not be restrained in all which they have imagined to do? 
Go to, let us go down, and confound there their language, that they may not understand one another's speech. 
So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of all the earth; and they left off to build the city. 
Therefore is the name of it called Babel, because the Lord did there confound the language of all the earth; and from there did the Lord scatter them abroad over the face of all the earth. 
These are the generations of Shem: Shem, when a hundred years old, begat Arpachshad, two years after the flood. 
And Shem lived after he had begotten Arpachshad five hundred years; and begat sons and daughters. 
And Arpachshad lived five and thirty years, and begat Shelach. 
And Arpachshad lived after he had begotten Shelach four hundred and three years; and begat sons and daughters. 
And Shelach lived thirty years, and begat Eber. 
And Shelach lived after he had begotten Eber four hundred and three years; and begat sons and daughters. 
And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg. 
And Eber lived after he had begotten Peleg four hundred and thirty years; and begat sons and daughters. 
And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu. 
And Peleg lived after he had begotten Reu two hundred and nine years; and begat sons and daughters. 
And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug. 
And Reu lived after he had begotten Serug two hundred and seven years; and begat sons and daughters. 
And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nachor. 
And Serug lived after he had begotten Nachor two hundred years; and begat sons and daughters. 
And Nachor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terach. 
And Nachor lived after he had begotten Terach a hundred and nineteen years; and begat sons and daughters. 
And Terach lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nachor, and Haran. 
Now these are the generations of Terach: Terach begat Abram, Nachor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot. 
And Haran died before his father Terach in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees. 
And Abram and Nachor took themselves wives; the name of Abram's wife was Sarai; and the name of Nachor's wife was Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Yiscah. 
But Sarai was barren; she had no child. 
And Terach took Abram his son, and Lot, the son of Haran, his son's son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, the wife of his son Abram; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Charan, and dwelt there. 
And the days of Terach were two hundred and five years; and Terach died in Charan. 
