Leviticus.
Chapter 14.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
This shall be the law of the leper on the day of his being cleansed: He shall be brought unto the priest. 
And the priest shall go forth to without the camp; and if the priest see, and, behold, the plague of leprosy be healed on the leper: 
Then shall the priest command to take for him that is to be cleansed two healthy, clean birds, and cedar wood, and a string of scarlet yarn, and hyssop. 
And the priest shall command that one of the birds be killed in an earthen vessel over running water. 
As for the living bird, he shall take it, and the cedar wood, and the string of scarlet yarn, and the hyssop, and he shall dip these and the living bird into the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water: 
And he shall sprinkle upon him that is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times; and when he hath cleansed him, he shall let the living bird fly forth into the open field. 
And he that is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes, and shave off all his hair, and wash himself in water, and he shall be clean, and after that he may come into the camp; but he shall tarry outside of his tent seven days. 
And it shall be on the seventh day, that he shall shave off all his hair, his head, and his beard, and his eyebrows, even all his hair shall he shave off: and he shall wash his clothes, he shall also wash his flesh in water, when he shall be clean. 
And on the eighth day he shall take two sheep without blemish, and one ewe of the first year without blemish, and three-tenth parts of fine flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, and one log of oil. 
And the priest who cleanseth shall cause the man that is to be made clean, and these things, to stand before the Lord, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: 
And the priest shall take the one sheep, and offer the same for a trespass-offering, with the log of oil; and he shall make with them a waving before the Lord. 
And he shall slay the sheep on the place where the sin-offering and the burnt-offering are killed, in the holy place; for as the sin-offering so doth the trespass-offering belong to the priest: it is most holy. 
And the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass-offering; and the priest shall put it upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot. 
And the priest shall take some of the log of oil, and pour it into the palm of his own left hand. 
And the priest shall dip his finger of the right hand in the oil that is in his left hand, and he shall sprinkle of the oil with his finger seven times before the Lord. 
And of the rest of the oil that is in his hand shall the priest put upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot, upon the blood of the trespass-offering. 
And what is left of the oil that is in the priest's hand, he shall put upon the head of him that is to be cleansed: and the priest shall thus make an atonement for him before the Lord. 
And the priest shall prepare the sin-offering, and make an atonement for him that is to be cleansed from his uncleanness; and afterward shall he kill the burnt-offering: 
And the priest shall offer the burnt-offering and the meat-offering upon the altar; and the priest shall thus make an atonement for him, and he shall be clean. 
But if he be poor, and his means do not suffice, then shall he take one sheep for a trespass-offering to be waved, to make an atonement for him; and one-tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat-offering, and a log of oil; 
And two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, for which his means suffice; and one shall be a sin-offering, and the other a burnt-offering. 
And he shall bring them on the eighth day of his being cleansed unto the priest, unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, before the Lord. 
And the priest shall take the sheep of the trespass-offering, and the log of oil; and the priest shall make with them a waving before the Lord. 
And he shall kill the sheep of the trespass-offering; and the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass-offering, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot. 
And some of the oil shall the priest pour into the palm of his own left hand: 
And the priest shall sprinkle with his finger of the right hand some of the oil that is in his left hand, seven times before the Lord; 
And the priest shall put of the oil that is in his hand upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot; upon the place of the blood of the trespass-offering; 
And what is left of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall put upon the head of him that is to be cleansed, to make an atonement for him before the Lord. 
And he shall offer the one of the turtle-doves, or of the young pigeons, from what his means enable him to bring; 
Even what his means enable him, the one for a sin-offering, and the other for a burnt-offering, with the meat-offering: and the priest shall thus make an atonement for him that is to be cleansed, before the Lord. 
This is the law of him on whom is the plague of leprosy, whose means are not sufficient when he is cleansed. 
And the Lord spoke unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
When ye come into the land of Canaan, which I give to you for a possession, and I put the plague of leprosy on a house of the land of your possession: 
Then shall he that owneth the house come and tell the priest, saying, Something like a leprosy hath shown itself to me in the house. 
And the priest shall command that they clear out the house, before the priest go into it to see the plague, that all be not made unclean that is in the house: and after this shall the priest go in to see the house. 
And he shall view the plague, and, behold, if the plague be in the walls of the house, in depressions, dark green or dark red, and their appearance be deeper than the wall: 
Then shall the priest go out of the house to the door of the house, and lock up the house seven days. 
And the priest shall come again on the seventh day; and if he see, that, behold, the plague have spread in the walls of the house: 
Then shall the priest command that they break out the stones on which the plague is; and they shall cast them forth without the city on an unclean place. 
And the house he shall cause to be scraped within round about; and they shall pour out the rubbish that they have scraped off without the city on an unclean place. 
And they shall take other stones, and put them into the place of these stones; and other mortar shall he take, and shall plaster the house. 
And if the plague come again, and break out in the house, after he hath taken away the stones, and after the house hath been scraped, and after it hath been plastered: 
Then shall the priest come; and if he see that, behold, the plague have spread in the house, it is a corrosive leprosy in the house; it is unclean. 
And he shall break down the house, its stones, and the timbers thereof, and all the mortar of the house; and he shall carry them forth to without the city, unto an unclean place. 
And he that goeth into the house, all the days that it is locked up, shall be unclean until the evening. 
And he that lieth in the house shall wash his clothes; and he that eateth in the house shall wash his clothes. 
But if the priest should come in, and see, and, behold, the plague have not spread in the house, after the house was plastered: then shall the priest pronounce the house clean, because the plague is healed. 
And he shall take, to atone for the house, two birds, and cedar wood, and a string of scarlet yarn, and hyssop; 
And he shall kill the one bird in an earthen vessel over running water; 
And he shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet yarn, and the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the slain bird, and in the running water, and sprinkle on the house seven times: 
And he shall atone for the house with the blood of the bird, and with the running water, and with the living bird, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop, and with the string of scarlet yarn; 
But he shall let fly forth the living bird out of the city into the open field, and make thus an atonement for the house, and it shall be clean. 
This is the law for all manner of plague of leprosy, and scall, 
And for the leprosy of a garment and of a house, 
And for a swelling, and for a rising, and for a bright spot; 
To teach on the day when something is unclean, and on the day when it is clean: this is the law of the leprosy. 
