1 Samuel.
Chapter 8.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he appointed his sons judges over Israel. 
And the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second Abiyah: they judged in Beer-sheba'. 
But his sons walked not in his ways, and they inclined after their own advantage, and took bribes, and perverted justice. 
Then did all the elders of Israel assemble themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah, 
And said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons have not walked in thy ways: now appoint for us a king to judge us like all the nations. 
But the thing was displeasing in the eyes of Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord. 
And the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they may say unto thee; for not thee have they rejected, but me have they rejected, that I should not reign over them. 
In accordance with all the deeds which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even until this day, when they forsook me, and served other gods: so do they also unto thee. 
And now hearken unto their voice: nevertheless thou must still solemnly forewarn them, and tell them the manner of the king that will reign over them. 
And Samuel said all the words of the Lord unto the people that had asked of him a king. 
And he said, This will be the manner of the king that will reign over you: Your sons will he take, and appoint them for himself with his chariots, and among his horsemen; and they will have to run before his chariot; 
And to appoint for himself captains over thousands, and captains over fifties; and to plough his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and the instruments of his chariots. 
And your daughters will he take for ointment makers, and for cooks, and for bakers. 
And your fields, and your vineyards, and your olive-yards, yea the best, will he take, and give them to his servants. 
And of your seeds, and of your vineyards will he take the tenth, and give the same to his officers, and to his servants. 
And your men-servants, and your maid-servants, and your best young men, and your asses will he take, and employ them for his work. 
Of your flocks will he take the tenth: and ye yourselves will become his servants. 
And ye will cry out on that day because of your king whom ye will have chosen for yourselves, but the Lord will not answer you on that day. 
Nevertheless the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel; and they said, No; but a king shall be over us; 
That we also may ourselves be like all the nations: and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles. 
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he spoke them before the ears of the Lord. 
And the Lord said to Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and appoint them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city. 
