Ezekiel.
Chapter 41.
And he brought me to the temple: and he measured the door-posts, six cubits broad on the one side, and six cubits broad on the other side, as also the breadth of the tabernacle. 
And the breadth of the door was ten cubits; and the sides of the door were five cubits on the one side, and five cubits on the other side: and he measured its length, forty cubits, and the breadth, twenty cubits. 
Then went he inward, and measured the posts of the door, two cubits; and the door was six cubits high; and the breadth of the door, was seven cubits. 
And he measured its length, twenty cubits; and the breadth, twenty cubits, fronting on the temple: and he said unto me, This is the most holy place. 
After this he measured the wall of the house, six cubits; and the breadth of every side-chamber was four cubits, all round about the house on every side. 
And the side-chambers were one over another, three and thirty times; and they entered into the wall which was on the house for the side-chambers all round about, that they might be fastened on, but they were not fastened on the wall of the house. 
And as one wound upward it became continually wider for the side-chambers; for the row of chambers about the house went more and more upward round about the house; therefore was the breadth of the house greater upward: and so they ascended from the lowest chambers to the highest through the middle ones. 
And I saw the height of the house all round about: the foundations of the side-chambers were a full rod of six cubits under ground. 
The thickness of the wall, which was for the side-chambers without, was five cubits, as also the space which was left open by the row of the side-chambers that were on the house. 
And between the chambers there was a width of twenty cubits round about the house on every side. 
And the doors of the side-chambers were on the open space, one door was in a northern direction, and another door on the south; and the breadth of the place that was left open was five cubits all round about. 
Now the building that was before the main wing on the west side was seventy cubits broad; and the wall of the building was five cubits thick round about, and its length, ninety cubits. 
So he measured the house, in length one hundred cubits; and the main wing, and the building, with its walls, in length one hundred cubits; 
Also the breadth in the front of the house, and of the main wing on the east, was one hundred cubits. 
And he measured the length of the building on the front side of the main wing which was behind it, and its corner-pillars on the one side and on the other side, one hundred cubits; and this included the inner temple, and the porches of the court; 
The thresholds, and the narrow windows, and the corner-pillars were round about on their three sides: opposite the threshold there was a wainscoting of wood all round about, and so from the ground up to the windows; and the windows were covered. 
On the part above the door, and as far as the inner house, and the outer house, was a wainscoting, and on all the wall round about within and without, by the same measure; 
And it was ornamented with cherubim and palm-trees, a palm-tree being between two cherubim; and every cherub had two faces; 
So that a human face was toward the palm-tree on the one side, and a young lion's face toward the palm-tree on the other side: it was so made on all the house round about. 
From the ground to the part above the door were the cherubim and the palm-trees made, and so on the wall of the temple. 
The temple had four-cornered door-posts, and the front of the holy of holies had the same appearance as the appearance of the other. 
The altar was of wood, three cubits high, and its length was two cubits; and its corners, and its top-piece, and its walls, were of wood: and he spoke unto me, This is the table that is before the Lord. 
And the temple and the holy of holies had two doors. 
And the doors had two leaves apiece, two turning leaves, two leaves for the one door, and two leaves for the other. 
And there were made on them, on the doors of the temple, cherubim and palm-trees, as they were made upon the walls; and a covering of thick wooden planks was upon the front of the porch without. 
And there were narrow windows and palm-trees on the one side and on the other side, on the sides of the porch, and on the side-chambers of the house, and the covering of thick planks. 
