Genesis.
Chapter 10.
Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah: Shem, Ham, and Japheth; and unto them were sons born after the flood. 
The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tirass. 
And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah. 
And Javan's sons: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. 
From these were separated the isles of the nations in their lands, every one after his tongue: after their families, in their nations. 
And the sons of Ham: Cush and Mizrayim, Put and Canaan. 
And the sons of Cush: Seba and Havilah, Sabtah and Raamah, and Sabtecha; and the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan. 
And Cush begat Nimrod; he began to be a mighty man on the earth. 
He was a mighty hunter before the Lord: wherefore it is said, Even as Nimrod, a mighty hunter before the Lord. 
And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. 
Out of that land went forth Asshur, and built Nineveh, and the city of Rechoboth, and Calach. 
And Ressen between Nineveh and Calach: the same is the great city. 
And Mizrayim begat the Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuchim. 
And the Pethrussim, and Casluchin, out of whom came the Pelishtim, and the Caphtorim. 
And Canaan begat Sidon his first-born, and Heth, 
And the Jebusite, and the Emorite, and the Girgashite, 
And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 
And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite; and afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread abroad. 
And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest to Gerar, unto Gazzah; as thou goest unto Sodom and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboyim, even unto Lesha. 
These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their countries, in their nations. 
But unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, were children born. 
The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram. 
And the children of Aram: Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash. 
And Arpachshad begat Shelach; and Shelach begat Eber. 
And unto Eber were born two sons; the name of one was Peleg, for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan. 
And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerach, 
And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba. 
And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan. 
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar, the mount of the east. 
These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, after their nations. 
These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations; and from these were the nations separated on the earth after the flood. 
