Genesis.
Chapter 12.
Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and out of thy birthplace, and from thy father's house, unto the land that I will show thee. 
And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing: 
And I will bless those that bless thee, and him that curseth thee, will I curse; and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. 
So Abram departed, as the Lord had spoken unto him, and Lot went with him; and Abram was seventy and five years old at his departure out of Charan. 
And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that they had acquired, and the persons that they had obtained in Charan; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and they came into the land of Canaan. 
And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Shechem, unto the plain of Moreh; and the Canaanite was then in the land. 
And the Lord appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land. And he built there an altar unto the Lord, who had appeared unto him. 
And he removed from there unto the mountain on the east of Beth-el, and pitched his tent, having Beth-el on the west, and 'Ai on the east; and he built there an altar unto the Lord, and called upon the name of the Lord. 
And Abram journeyed farther, still going on toward the south. 
And there arose a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was grievous in the land. 
And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a woman of handsome appearance: 
And it may come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they will say, This is his wife; and they may kill me, but thee they will save alive. 
Say then, I pray thee, thou art my sister, that it may go well with me for thy sake, and my soul live because of thee. 
And it came to pass, when Abram was come into Egypt, that the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair. 
The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her to Pharaoh; and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house. 
And he did well to Abram for her sake; and he received sheep, and oxen, and he-asses, and men-servants, and maid-servants, and she-asses, and camels. 
But the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife. 
And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What is this thou hast done unto me? Why didst thou not tell me that she is thy wife? 
Why saidst thou, She is my sister? and so I took her to me for a wife; now, therefore, behold, here is thy wife, take her, and go thy way. 
And Pharaoh commanded some men concerning him, who accompanied him and his wife, and all that he had. 
