Proverbs.
Chapter 12.
Whoso loveth correction loveth knowledge; but he that hateth reproof is brutish. 
The good obtaineth favor of the Lord; but a man of wicked devices will he condemn. 
A man cannot be firmly established by wickedness; but the root of the righteous will not be moved. 
A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but as rottenness in his bones is one that bringeth shame on him. 
The thoughts of the righteous are justice: the best counsels of the wicked are deceit. 
The words of the wicked are of lying in wait for blood; but the mouth of the upright will deliver them. 
The wicked are suddenly overthrown, and are no more; but the house of the righteous will endure. 
In accordance with his intelligence is a man praised; but he that is perverse of heart will come to be despised. 
Better is he that is lightly esteemed who hath a servant, than he that aimeth after honor, and lacketh bread. 
A righteous man careth for the life of his beast; but the mercies of the wicked are cruelty. 
He that tilleth his ground will be satisfied with bread; but he that runneth after idle persons is void of sense. 
The wicked is covetous for the net of evil men; but God giveth root to the righteous. 
In the transgression of his lips is the snare of the wicked; but the righteous cometh out of distress. 
From the fruit of his mouth will a man be satisfied with what is good; and the recompense of a man's hands will be brought back unto him. 
The way of a fool is straight in his own eyes; but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise. 
The wrath of the fool is known on the very day; but he that concealeth the disgrace is prudent. 
He that uttereth truth announceth righteousness; but a false witness, deceit. 
There is some one that useth words which are like the thrusts of a sword; but the tongue of the wise is healing. 
The lip of truth will stand firm for ever; but only for a moment the tongue of falsehood. 
Deceit is in the heart of those that contrive evil; but for the counsellors of peace there is joy. 
No wrong can come unawares to the righteous; but the wicked are full of evil. 
An abomination of the Lord are lips of falsehood; but they that deal in faithfulness obtain his favor. 
A prudent man concealeth his knowledge; but the heart of fools proclaimeth their folly. 
The hand of the diligent will bear rule; but the indolent must become tributary. 
If there be care in the heart of man, let him suppress it; and a good word will change it into joy. 
The righteous is more excellent than his neighbor; but the way of the wicked leadeth them astray. 
The indolent roasteth not that which he hath caught in hunting; but the most precious wealth of man is diligence. 
On the path of righteousness there is life; and on her pathway there is immortality, 
