Proverbs.
Chapter 13.
A wise son becometh so by the correction of his father; but a scorner hearkeneth not to rebuke. 
From the fruit of a man's mouth doth he eat what is good; but the longing of the treacherous is for violence. 
He that watcheth his mouth guardeth his soul; but he that openeth wide his lips prepareth himself destruction. 
The sluggard longeth in his soul, and there cometh nothing; but the soul of the diligent will be abundantly gratified. 
The righteous hateth the word of falsehood; but the wicked bringeth shame and dishonor. 
Righteousness keepeth him that is upright on his way; but wickedness perverteth the man of sin. 
There is some one that pretendeth to be rich without having any thing; another that pretendeth to be poor while having abundant wealth. 
As the ransom of a man's life hath he often to give his riches; but the poor heareth no threat. 
The light of the righteous burneth joyfully; but the lamp of the wicked will be quenched. 
Only through presumptuous conduct doth man produce contention; but with the well-advised is wisdom. 
Wealth gotten by vain deeds will be diminished; but he that gathereth by close labor will increase it. 
Expectation long deferred maketh the heart sick; but a tree of life is a desire which is fulfilled. 
Whoso despiseth the word shall fall in debt to it; but he that feareth the commandment will be rewarded. 
The instruction of the wise is a source of life, teaching to avoid the snares of death. 
Good intelligence giveth grace; but the way of the treacherous is hard. 
Every prudent man acteth with knowledge; but a fool spreadeth abroad his folly. 
A wicked messenger falleth into unhappiness; but a faithful ambassador bringeth healing. 
Poverty and disgrace will overtake him that rejecteth correction; but he that observeth admonition will be honored. 
A desire accomplished is pleasant to the soul; but it is abomination to fools to depart from evil. 
He that walketh with wise men will become wise; but he that associateth with fools will be destroyed. 
Evil pursueth the sinners; but the righteous will God repay with happiness. 
A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children; but the wealth of the sinner is treasured up for the righteous. 
Much food bringeth the new-tilled ground of the poor; but there are many others that are taken away through injustice. 
He that withholdeth his rod hateth his son; but he that loveth him chastiseth him betimes. 
The righteous eateth to satisfy his desire to eat; but the belly of the wicked always suffereth want. 
