Genesis.
Chapter 22.
And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt Abraham, and he said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here am I. 
And he said: Take now thy son, thy only one, whom thou lovest, even Isaac, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and offer him there for a burnt-offering upon one of the mountains which I tell thee of. 
And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son; and he clave the wood for the burnt-offering, and arose, and went unto the place of which God had told him. 
On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off. 
And Abraham said unto his young men, abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder, and we will worship, and then come again to you. 
And Abraham took the wood for the burnt-offering, and laid it upon Isaac his son; and he took in his hand the fire and the knife; and they went both of them together. 
And Isaac spoke unto Abraham his father, and said, My father; and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold, here is the fire and the wood; but where is the lamb for a burnt-offering? 
And Abraham said, God will provide himself the lamb for a burnt-offering, my son; so they went both of them together. 
And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham built there an altar, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar above the wood. 
And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son. 
But the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham; and he said, Here am I. 
And he said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou the least unto him; for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing that thou hast not withheld thy son, thy only one, from me. 
And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold, there was a ram that was afterward caught in a thicket by his horns; and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt-offering in the stead of his son. 
And Abraham called the name of that place, Adonai-yireh: as it is said to this day, On the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. 
And the angel of the Lord called unto Abraham the second time out of heaven, 
And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the Lord, since, because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thy only one: 
That I will greatly bless thee, and I will exceedingly multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon the seashore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies; 
And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; because that thou hast obeyed my voice. 
And Abraham returned unto his young men; and they rose up, and went together to Beer-sheba; and Abraham dwelt in Beer-sheba. 
And it came to pass after these things, that it was told to Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she also, hath born children unto Nachor thy brother; 
'Uz his first born, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram, 
And Kesed, and Chazo, and Pildash, and Yidlaph, and Bethuel. 
And Bethuel begat Rebekah; these eight did Milcah bear to Nachor, Abraham's brother. 
And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she also bore Tebach, and Gacham, and Thachash, and Maachah. 
