Genesis.
Chapter 14.
And it came to pass, in the day of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Kedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goyim; 
That these made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboyim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar. 
All these joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is now the salt sea. 
Twelve years had they served Kedorlaomer, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled. 
And in the fourteenth year came Kedorlaomer, and the kings that were with him, and they smote the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnayim, and the Zuzim in Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh-kiriathayim, 
And the Horites in their mountain Seir, unto El-paran, which is by the wilderness. 
And they returned and came to Enmishpat, which is Kadesh, and smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Emorites, that dwelt in Hazezon-tamar. 
And then went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboyim, and the king of Bela, the same is Zoar; and they joined battle with them in the vale of Siddim; 
With Kedorlaomer king of Elam, and with Tidal king of Goyim, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings with five. 
And the vale of Siddim was full of slime-pits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell therein; and they that remained fled to the mountain. 
And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their victuals, and went their way. 
And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed. 
And there came one that had escaped, and told it to Abram the Hebrew; but he dwelt in the grove of Mamre the Emorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner, and these were confederates of Abram. 
And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed his trained servants; born in his own house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued them into Dan. 
And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, by night, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus. 
And he brought back all the goods; and he also brought again his brother Lot, and his goods, and also the women, and the people. 
And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from smiting Kedorlaomer, and the kings that were with him at the valley of Shaveh, which is the kings' dale. 
And Malkizidek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine; and he was a priest of the most high God. 
And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be Abram of the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth. 
And blessed he the most high God, who hath delivered thy enemies into thy hand. And he gave him tithes of all. 
And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and the goods take to thyself. 
And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lifted up my hand unto the Lord, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth, 
That I will not take from a thread even to a shoe-latchet, and that I will not take any thing that is thine; lest thou shouldst say, I have made Abram rich: 
Save only that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men who went with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre — these may take their portion. 
