Job.
Chapter 37.
At this also my heart trembleth, and is moved upward out of its place. 
Hear, O hear, the rattling of his thunder, and the storm's roar that goeth out of his mouth. 
Under the whole heavens he letteth it loose, and his lightning over the ends of the earth. 
Behind it roareth the thunder; he thundereth with his majestic voice; and he holdeth them not back when his voice is heard. 
God thundereth with his marvelous voice: he doth great things, which we cannot comprehend. 
For to the snow he saith, Be thou on the earth: likewise the pouring rain, and to the pouring rains of his strength. 
He sealeth it on the hand of every man, that all men whom he hath made may know it. 
Then retire the beasts into their dens, and rest in their lairs. 
Out of his chamber cometh the whirlwind, and out of the north, the cold. 
From the breathing of God ice is given, and the broad waters become solid. 
Also with moisture he loadeth the cloud; and he scattereth the cloud of his lightning; 
And it is turned round about by his guidance, to execute what he commandeth it upon the face of the world, the earth. 
Whether it be as a chastising rod—if this be destined for his earth—or for kindness, doth he cause it to come. 
Give ear unto this, O Job: stand still, and consider well the wonders of God. 
Dost thou know how God hath imposed a law on them, and how he hath caused the light of his cloud to shine? 
Dost thou know aught about the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him who is perfect in knowledge? 
Thou who clothest thyself with warm garments, when He giveth the earth rest from the south wind? 
Hast thou with him spread out the skies, which are strong even as a molten mirror? 
Let us know what we shall say unto him: we cannot set aught in order before him because of darkness. 
Can all be related of him, when I speak ever so much? or if a man talk of him even till he be swallowed up in death? 
Yet now men see not the light which is bright in the skies, when the wind hath passed along, and purified them. 
The golden light that cometh out of the north: around God is terrible majesty. 
The Almighty, whom we cannot find out, excellent in power, and in justice, and abounding in righteousness, will not afflict: 
Therefore do men fear him; he respecteth not any that are wise of heart. 
