Genesis.
Chapter 5.
This is the book of the generations of Adam. On the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him: 
Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, on the day when they were created. 
And Adam lived a hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his likeness, after his image; and called his name Sheth. 
And the days of Adam after he had begotten Sheth were eight hundred years; and he begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years; and he died. 
And Sheth lived a hundred and five years, and begat Enosh. 
And Sheth lived after he had begotten Enosh eight hundred and seven years; and he begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Sheth were nine hundred and twelve years; and he died. 
And Enosh lived ninety years, and begat Kenan. 
And Enosh lived after he had begotten Kenan eight hundred and fifteen years; and he begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years; and he died. 
And Kenan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalalel. 
And Kenan lived after he had begotten Mahalalel eight hundred and forty years; and he begat sons and daughters 
And all the days of Kenan were nine hundred and ten years; and he died. 
And Mahalalel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared. 
And Mahalalel lived after he had begotten Jared eight hundred and thirty years; and he begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety and five years; and he died. 
And Jared lived a hundred sixty and two years, and begat Enoch. 
And Jared lived after he had begotten Enoch eight hundred years; and he begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years; and he died. 
And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methushelah. 
And Enoch walked with God after he had begotten Methushelah three hundred years; and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years. 
And Enoch walked with God, and he was no more; for God had taken him. 
And Methushelah lived a hundred eighty and seven years and begat Lemech. 
And Methushelah lived after he had begotten Lemech seven hundred eighty and two years; and he begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Methushelah were nine hundred sixty and nine years; and he died. 
And Lemech lived a hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son. 
And he called his name Noach, Noah, saying, This one shall comfort us concerning our work and the toil of our hands, because of the ground which the Lord hath cursed. 
And Lemech lived after he had begotten Noah five hundred ninety and five years; and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Lemech were seven hundred seventy and seven years; and he died. 
And Noah was five hundred years old, and Noah begat Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
