Amos.
Chapter 6.
Woe to those that are free from care in Zion, and that are in safety on the mount of Samaria, who are named the chief of the nations, to whom the house of Israel come! 
Pass ye over unto Calneh, and see; and go from there to Chamath-rabbah; then go down to Gath of the Philistines: whether they be better than these kingdoms? or whether their territory be greater than your territory? 
Ye that deem far away the evil day, and cause the seat of violence to come near; 
That lie upon beds of ivory, and are stretched out upon their couches, and eat lambs out of the flock, and calves out of the midst of the stall; 
That chant to the sound of the psaltery, and like David's do they imagine their instrument of music to be; 
That drink out of wine-bowls, and anoint themselves with the costliest of ointments; but who feel no pain for the wound of Joseph. 
Therefore now shall they go into exile at the head of exiles, and the noisy banquet of those that were stretched out shall pass away. 
The Lord Eternal hath sworn by his own existence, saith the Lord the God of hosts, I abhor the pride of Jacob, and his palaces do I hate: therefore will I surrender up to the enemy the city with all that filleth it. 
And it shall come to pass, that if there remain ten men in one house, they shall die. 
And should a man's uncle or relative carry him forth, to bring out the bones out of the house, and say unto him that is in the recesses of the house, Is there yet any one with thee? he will say, There is no one left. Then will he say, Be silent; for we may not make mention of the name of the Lord. 
For, behold, the Lord commandeth, and he will smite the great house with breaches, and the little house with clefts. 
Do horses ever run upon the rock? or will one plough there with oxen? that ye have turned justice into poison, and the fruit of righteousness into wormwood; 
Ye who rejoice for a thing of naught, who say, Have we not through our own strength procured ourselves horns? 
For, behold, I will raise up against you a nation, O house of Israel, saith the Lord the God of hosts, and they shall oppress you from the entrance of Chamath unto the brook of the wilderness. 
