1 Chronicles.
Chapter 9.
So all Israel were recorded by their genealogies, and, behold, they are written in the book of the Kings of Israel; but the men of Judah were carried away into exile to Babylon for their unfaithfulness. 
And the first inhabitants that dwelt again in their possessions in their cities, were the Israelites, the priests, the Levites, and the temple-servants. 
And in Jerusalem dwelt some of the children of Judah, and of the children of Benjamin, and of the children of Ephraim, and Menasseh. 
'Uthai the son of 'Ammihud, the son of 'Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the children of Perez the son of Judah. 
And of the Shilonites: 'Assayah the first-born, and his sons. 
And of the sons of Zerach: Je'uel, and their brethren, six hundred and ninety. 
And of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodavyah, the son of Hassenuah, 
And Yibneyah the son of Jerocham, and Elah the son of 'Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephatyah, the son of Re'uel, the son of Yibniyah; 
And their brethren, according to their generations, nine hundred and fifty and six. All these men were chiefs of the divisions of their family divisions. 
And of the priests: Jeda'yah, and Jehoyarib, and Jachin. 
And 'Azaryah the son of Chilkiyah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Merayoth, the son of Actitub, the ruler of the house of God. 
And 'Adayah the son of Jerocham, the son of Pashchur, the son of Malkiyah, and Ma'sai the son of 'Adiel, the son of Jachzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer: 
And their brethren, chiefs of their family divisions, were one thousand and seven hundred and sixty, very able men for the work of the service of the house of God. 
And of the Levites: Shema'yah the son of Chasshub, the son of 'Azrikam, the son of Chashabyah, of the sons of Merari; 
And Bakbakkar, Cheresh, and Galal, and Matthanyah the son of Micha, the son of Zichri, the son of Assaph; 
And 'Obadiah the son of Shema'yah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berechyah the son of Assa, the son of Elkanah, that dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites. 
And the gatekeepers were Shallum, and 'Akkub, and Talmon, and Achiman, and their brethren, Shallum being the chief; 
And up to this time they are in the king's gate to the eastward: they are the gatekeepers for the camps of the children of Levi. 
And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebyassaph, the son of Korach, and his brethren, of the house of his father, the Korchites, being over the work of the service, were the watchmen at the threshold of the tabernacle: and their fathers, being over the camp of the Lord, were the watchmen at the entrance thereof. 
And Phinehas the son of El'azar was the ruler over them in times past; and the Lord was with him. 
And Zechariah the son of Meshelemyah was gatekeeper at the entrance of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
All of these selected to be gatekeepers at the thresholds were two hundred and twelve. These were recorded according to their genealogy in their villages; and they were those whom David and Samuel the seer did ordain in their trust. 
Both they and their children had the oversight over the gates of the house of the Lord, namely, the house of the tabernacle, as watches. 
On four quarters were the gatekeepers, toward the east, the west, the north, and the south. 
And their brethren, who were in their villages, had to come after every seven days from time to time in common with these. 
For in their trust were these four chief gatekeepers— these Levites, and they were appointed over the chambers and treasuries of the house of God. 
And they lodged round about the house of God; because upon them rested the duty of watching, and they had the supervision of the opening thereof each and every morning. 
And some of them had the charge of the vessels for the service; for by number did they bring them in, and by number did they carry them out. 
Some of them also were appointed over the vessels, and over all the vessels of the sanctuary, and over the fine flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices. 
And some of the sons of the priests prepared the mixture of the spices. 
And Matthithyah, one of the Levites, who was the first-born of Shallum the Korchite, had the trust over the meat-offerings that were baked in the pans. 
And others of their brethren, of the sons of the Kehathites, were over the orders of the shew-bread, to prepare it every sabbath. 
But these the singers, the chiefs of the divisions of the Levites, remained in the chambers free of service; for day and night were they obliged to engage in that work. 
These are the chiefs of the divisions of the Levites, being the chiefs for their generations: these dwelt at Jerusalem. 
And in Gib'on dwelt the father of Gib'on, Je'iel; and the name of his wife was Ma'achah; 
And his first-born son was 'Abdon, then Zur, and Kish, and Ba'al, and Ner, and Nadab, 
And Gedor, and Achyo, and Zechariah, and Mikloth. 
And Mikloth begat Shimam. And they also dwelt alongside of their brethren at Jerusalem, with their brethren. 
And Ner begat Kish; and Kish begat Saul; and Saul begat Jehonathan, and Malki-shua', and Abinadab, and Eshba'al. 
And the son of Jehonathan was Merib-ba'al: and Merib-ba'al begat Michah. 
And the sons of Michah were, Pithon, and Melech, and Thachrea'. 
And Achaz begat Ja'rah; and Ja'rah begat 'Alemeth, 'Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza; 
And Moza begat Bin'a; !!and Rephayah his son, El'assah his son, Azel his son. 
And Azel had six sons, and these are their names, 'Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and She'aryah, and 'Obadiah, and Chanan: these were the sons of Azel. 
