Proverbs.
Chapter 19.
Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than one of perverse lips, who is a fool. 
Also in the want of knowledge in the soul there is nothing good; and he that hasteneth with his feet misseth the right path. 
The folly of a man perverteth his way, and against the Lord will his heart rage. 
Wealth bringeth many friends; but the poor becometh separated from his only friend. 
A false witness shall not remain unpunished, and he that uttereth lies shall not escape. 
Many will entreat the favor of the liberal man; and every one is the friend to him that bestoweth gifts. 
All the brothers of the poor hate him: how much more do his friends go far away from him! he pursueth their promises; but these are all that he hath. 
He that getteth intelligence loveth his own soul: he that guardeth understanding will find happiness. 
A false witness shall not remain unpunished, and he that uttereth lies shall perish. 
Delicacy is not seemly for a fool: much less for a servant to have rule over princes. 
It is intelligence in man to be slow in his anger, and it is his glory to pass over a transgression. 
Like the roaring of a young lion is the wrath of a king: as dew upon the herbs is his favor. 
A calamity unto his father is a foolish son; and a continual dropping are the quarrels of a wife. 
House and wealth are an inheritance from fathers; but from the Lord cometh an intelligent wife. 
Slothfulness casteth man into a deep sleep; and an indolent soul will suffer hunger. 
He that observeth the commandment guardeth his own soul: but he that disregardeth directing his ways aright shall die. 
He lendeth unto the Lord that is liberal to the poor, and his good deed will he repay unto him. 
Chastise thy son, for there is hope; and let not thy soul spare him for his crying. 
A man of great fury must suffer punishment; for if thou deliver him, thou must still do it again. 
Hear counsel, and accept correction, in order that thou mayest be wise in thy latter end. 
There are many thoughts in a man's heart; but the counsel of the Lord alone will stand firm. 
The longing of a man is to exercise his kindness; and a poor man is better than a liar. 
The fear of the Lord leadeth unto life: and he that hath it shall abide satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil. 
When a slothful man hath hidden his hand in the dish, then will he not even bring it back to his mouth. 
Smite a scorner, and the simple will become prudent; and if one that hath understanding be admonished, he will understand knowledge. 
He that plundereth his father, and chaseth away his mother, is a son that bringeth shame and dishonor. 
Cease, my son, to hear the instruction that causeth thee to err from the sayings of knowledge. 
An ungodly witness scorneth at justice, and the mouth of the wicked swalloweth mischief. 
Punishments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of fools. 
