Leviticus.
Chapter 16.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they had come near before the Lord, and died: 
And the Lord said unto Moses, Speak unto Aaron thy brother, that he come not at all times into the holy place within the vail, before the mercy-seat, which is upon the ark, that he die not; for in the cloud will I appear upon the mercy-seat. 
With this shall Aaron come into the holy place: with a young bullock for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering. 
A holy linen coat shall be put on, and linen breeches shall he have upon his flesh, and with a linen girdle shall he gird himself, and a linen mitre shall he bind on his head; these are holy garments; therefore shall he wash his flesh in water, and then put them on. 
And from the congregation of the children of Israel shall he take two goats for a sin-offering, and one ram for a burnt-offering. 
And Aaron shall bring near the bullock of the sin-offering, which is for himself, and make an atonement for himself, and for his house. 
And he shall take the two goats, and place them before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
And Aaron shall put lots upon the two goats; one lot “for the Lord,” and the other lot “for 'Azazel.” 
And Aaron shall bring near the goat upon which fell the lot “for the Lord,” and offer him for a sin-offering. 
But the goat on which fell the lot “for 'Azazel,” shall be placed alive before the Lord, to make an atonement with him, by sending him away to 'Azazel into the wilderness. 
And Aaron shall bring near the bullock of the sin-offering, which is for himself, and he shall make an atonement for himself, and for his house; and he shall kill the bullock of the sin-offering which is for himself. 
And he shall take a censer full of burning coals of fire from off the altar before the Lord, and both his hands full of incense of spices, pounded fine, and bring it within the vail; 
And he shall put the incense upon the fire, before the Lord; that the cloud of the incense may envelop the mercy-seat that is upon the testimony, that he die not. 
And he shall take of the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it with his finger above toward the mercy-seat, eastward; and before the mercy-seat shall he sprinkle seven times of the blood with his finger. 
And he shall kill the goat of the sin-offering, that is for the people, and bring his blood to within the vail, and do with that blood as he did with the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it above the mercy-seat, and before the mercy-seat. 
And he shall make an atonement for the holy place, because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions in all their sins: and so shall he do for the tabernacle of the congregation, that abideth among them in the midst of their uncleanness. 
And there shall not be any man in the tabernacle of the congregation when he goeth in to make an atonement in the holy place, until he come out: and so shall he make an atonement for himself, and for his household, and for the whole congregation of Israel. 
And he shall then go out unto the altar that is before the Lord, and make an atonement upon it; and he shall take of the blood of the bullock, and of the blood of the goat, and put it upon the horns of the altar round about. 
And he shall sprinkle upon it of the blood with his finger seven times; and he shall cleanse it, and hallow it from the uncleanness of the children of Israel. 
And when he hath made an end of atoning for the holy place, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar: then shall he bring near the live goat. 
And Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions in all their sins, putting them upon the head of the goat, and he shall send him away by the hand of a man appointed thereto into the wilderness: 
And the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities unto a land not inhabited; and so shall he send away the goat into the wilderness. 
And Aaron shall then go into the tabernacle of the congregation, and he shall take off the linen garments, which he had put on when he went into the holy place, and he shall leave them there: 
And he shall bathe his flesh with water in a holy place, and put on his garments; and come then forth, and offer his burnt-offering, and the burnt-offering of the people, and make an atonement for himself, and for the people. 
And the fat of the sin-offering shall he burn upon the altar. 
And he that carrieth the goat to 'Azazel shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he may come into the camp. 
And the bullock for the sin-offering, and the goat for the sin-offering, the blood of which was brought in to make atonement in the holy place, shall one carry forth without the camp; and they shall burn in fire their skins, and their flesh, and their dung. 
And he that burneth them shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he may come into the camp. 
And it shall be unto you a statute for ever: in the seventh month, on the tenth of the month, ye shall afflict yourselves by fasting, and no work shall ye do, whether it be one of your own country, or the stranger that sojourneth among you; 
For on that day shall the high-priest make an atonement for you, to cleanse you; from all your sins before the Lord shall ye be clean. 
It shall be a sabbath of rest unto you, and ye shall afflict yourselves by fasting, as a statute for ever. 
And the priest, who shall be anointed, and who shall be consecrated to minister as priest in his father's stead, shall make the atonement; and he shall put on the linen clothes, the holy garments. 
And he shall make an atonement for the holy of holies; and for the tabernacle of the congregation, and for the altar shall he make an atonement; and also for the priests, and for all the people of the congregation shall he make an atonement. 
And this shall be unto you as a statute for everlasting, to make an atonement for the children of Israel for all their sins once a year: and he did as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
