Numbers.
Chapter 12.
And Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses, on account of the Ethiopian woman whom he had married; for an Ethiopian woman had he married. 
And they said, Hath then only with Moses the Lord spoken? hath he not also spoken with us? And the Lord heard it. 
(But the man Moses was very meek, more so than any man who was upon the face of the earth.) 
And the Lord said suddenly unto Moses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam, Go out ye three unto the tabernacle of the congregation; and these three went out. 
And the Lord came down in a pillar of cloud, and stood at the door of the tabernacle; and he called Aaron and Miriam, and both of them went out. 
And he said, Hear now my words: If there be a prophet of your kind, I, the Lord, do make myself known unto him in a vision, in a dream do I speak with him. 
Not so is my servant Moses, in all my house is he faithful. 
Mouth to mouth do I speak with him, even evidently, and not in dark speeches; and the similitude of the Lord doth he behold: wherefore then were ye not afraid to speak against my servant, against Moses? 
And the anger of the Lord was kindled against them, and he went away. 
And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle; and, behold, Miriam became leprous, white as snow; and Aaron turned toward Miriam, and, behold, she was leprous. 
Then said Aaron unto Moses, Alas, my Lord, do not, I beseech thee, account to us as sin that wherein we have done foolishly, and wherein we have sinned. 
Let her not be as a dead-born child, of which half the flesh is consumed, when it cometh out of its mother's womb. 
And Moses cried unto the Lord, saying, O God! do thou heal her, I beseech thee. 
And the Lord said unto Moses, If her father had spit in her face, would she not be ashamed seven days? let her be shut up seven days outside of the camp, and after that let her be brought in again. 
And Miriam was shut up outside of the camp seven days; and the people did not set forward till Miriam was brought in again. 
And afterward the people removed from Chazeroth, and encamped in the wilderness of Paran. 
