Genesis.
Chapter 50.
And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon him, and kissed him. 
And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father: and the physicians embalmed Israel. 
And they fulfilled for him forty days: for so they fulfill the days of those that are embalmed; and the Egyptians wept for him seventy days. 
And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spoke unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, 
My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die; in my grave, which I have dug for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me: now therefore let me go up, I pray thee, and I will bury my father, and return again. 
And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, as he hath made thee swear. 
And Joseph went up to bury his father, and there went up with him all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt, 
And all the house of Joseph, and his brothers, and his father's house; only their little ones, and their flocks, and their herds, they left behind in the land of Goshen. 
And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen; and the encampment was very great. 
And they came to the thrashing-floor of Atad, which is beyond Jordan, and they held there a great and very sore lamentation; and he made for his father a mourning of seven days. 
And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning at the thrashing-floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning to the Egyptians; wherefore the name of it was called Abel-mizrayim, which is beyond the Jordan. 
And his sons did unto him according as he had commanded them; 
And his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which field Abraham bought for a possession, as a burying-place, of Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre. 
And Joseph returned unto Egypt, he, and his brothers, and all that were gone up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father. 
And when Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, Peradventure Joseph may now hate us: and then he would certainly requite us all the evil which we have done unto him. 
And they sent word unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before his death, saying, 
So shall ye say unto Joseph, O forgive, I pray thee, the trespass of thy brothers, and their sin; for evil have they done unto thee: and now, we pray thee, forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father; and Joseph wept when they spoke unto him. 
And his brothers also went and fell down before him; and they said, Behold, we will be thy servants. 
And Joseph said unto them, Fear not; for am I in the place of God? 
But as for you, though ye thought evil against me, God meant it unto good; in order to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save alive a numerous people. 
Now therefore fear ye not, I will support you, and your little ones; and he comforted them, and spoke kindly unto them. 
And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house; and Joseph lived one hundred and ten years. 
And Joseph saw of Ephraim children of the third generation; the children also of Machir the son of Menasseh were brought up upon Joseph's knees. 
And Joseph said unto his brothers, I shall die; but God will surely visit you, and bring you up out of this land unto the land which he hath sworn to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. 
And Joseph caused the children of Israel to swear, saying, God will surely visit you, and then shall ye carry up my bones from here. 
So Joseph died, being one hundred and ten years old; and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. 
