Genesis.
Chapter 9.
And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth. 
And the fear of you, and the dread of you, shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every fowl of the heaven; whatever is that moveth upon the earth, and all the fishes of the sea, are delivered into your hand. 
Every moving thing that liveth shall be yours for food; even as the green herbs have I given you all things. 
But flesh in which its life is, which is its blood, shall ye not eat. 
Your blood, however, on which your lives depend, will I require: at the hand of every beast will I require it; and at the hand of man, at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man. 
Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed; for in the image of God made he man. 
And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly on the earth, and multiply thereon. 
And God spoke unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 
And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you; 
And with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you, from all those that go out of the ark, for every beast of the earth. 
And I will establish my covenant with you; and all flesh shall not be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall there be any more a flood to destroy the earth. 
And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you, and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations. 
My bow I do set in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of the covenant between me and the earth. 
And it shall come to pass, that, when I bring a cloud over the earth, and the bow shall be seen in the cloud, 
I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh. 
And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature, of all flesh, that is upon the earth. 
And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth. 
And the sons of Noah that went forth from the ark, were Shem, Ham and Japheth; and Ham was the father of Canaan. 
These three were the sons of Noah, and of them was the whole earth overspread. 
And Noah, who was a husbandman, began his work, and he planted a vineyard. 
And he drank of the wine, and became drunken; and he uncovered himself within his tent. 
And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told it his two brothers without. 
And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon the shoulders of both of them, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were turned backward, and they saw not their father's nakedness. 
And Noah awoke from his wine, and discovered what his younger son had done unto him. 
And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren. 
And he said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem; and Canaan shall be a servant unto them. 
May God enlarge the boundaries of Japheth, and may he dwell in the tents of Shem; and Canaan shall be a servant unto them. 
And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years. 
And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years; and he died. 
