Amos.
Chapter 2.
Thus hath said the Lord, For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, will I not turn away their punishment; because he burnt the bones of the king of Edom into lime; 
And I will send a fire against Moab, which shall devour the palaces of Keriyoth: and Moab shall die in the tumult, in the shouting, amidst the sound of the cornet; 
And I will cut off the judges from her midst, and all her princes will I slay, with him, saith the Lord. 
Thus hath said the Lord, For three transgressions of Judah, and for four, will I not turn away their punishment; because they have despised the law of the Lord, and did not keep his statutes, and their lying idols caused them to err, after which their fathers had walked; 
And I will send out a fire against Judah, which shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem. 
Thus hath said the Lord, For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, will I not turn away their punishment; because they sold for silver the righteous, and the needy for a pair of shoes; 
That are eager after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turn aside the way of the meek: and a man and his father will go in unto the same young woman, in order to profane my holy name. 
And upon pledged garments they stretch themselves out by every altar, and the wine of the condemned do they drink in the house of their gods. 
Yet have I destroyed the Emorite from before them, whose height was like the height of cedars, and who was strong as the oaks; but I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath. 
And it was I who have brought you up from the land of Egypt, and led you forty years through the wilderness, to take possession of the land of the Emorite. 
And I have raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for nazarites: is it not even thus, O ye children of Israel? saith the Lord. 
But ye have given the nazarites wine to drink; and concerning the prophets have ye commanded, saying, Ye shall not prophesy. 
Behold, I press down the ground under you, as the wagon presseth it down that is full of sheaves. 
And refuge shall vanish from the swift, and the strong shall not make use of his force, neither shall the mighty man escape with his life. 
And he that handleth the bow shall not be able to stand; and he that is swift of foot shall not escape: neither shall he that rideth the horse escape with his life. 
And he that is most courageous hearted among the mighty shall flee away naked on that day, saith the Lord. 
