Isaiah.
Chapter 54.
Sing, O barren one, that thou hast not born: break forth into song, and rejoice aloud, that thou hast not travailed; for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife, saith the Lord. 
Enlarge the space of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of thy habitations,—spare not: lengthen thy cords, and strengthen thy stakes; 
For to the right and to the left shalt thou spread forth; and thy seed shall drive out nations, desolate cities shall they repeople. 
Fear not, for thou shalt not be made ashamed; and be not confounded, for thou shalt not be put to the blush; for the shame of thy youth shalt thou forget, and the reproach of thy widowhood shalt thou not remember any more. 
For thy husband is thy Maker, the Lord of hosts is his name; and thy Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel, “The God of all the earth,” shall he be called. 
For as a woman forsaken and grieved in spirit did the Lord call thee back, and as a wife of youth, that was rejected, saith thy God. 
But for a brief moment have I forsaken thee; but with great mercies will I again receive thee. 
In a little wrath did I hide my face for a moment from thee; but with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith thy Redeemer the Lord. 
For as the waters of Noah is this unto me; as I have sworn that the waters of Noah should no more pass over the earth: so have I sworn that I would not be wroth with thee, nor rebuke thee. 
For the mountains may depart, and the hills may be removed; but my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith he that hath mercy on thee, the Lord. 
O thou afflicted, tossed by the tempest, and not comforted, behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colors, and lay thy foundations with sapphires. 
And I will make of rubies thy battlements, and thy gates into carbuncle-stones, and all thy borders into precious stones. 
And all thy children shall be disciples of the Lord; and great shall be the peace of thy children. 
In righteousness shalt thou be established: keep far from oppression, for thou shalt not fear; and from terror, for it shall not come near unto thee. 
Behold, they that assemble together, are nothing without me: whatsoever assembleth together against thee shall fall under thy power. 
Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the coals in the fire, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his work; and I have also created the waster to destroy. 
No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every tongue that will rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord, and their due reward from me, saith the Lord. 
