Job.
Chapter 7.
Is there not a limited time of service to a mortal upon the earth? Are not his days also like the days of a hired laborer? 
As a servant eagerly longeth for the shadow, and as a hired laborer hopeth for his reward: 
So was I compelled to possess months of vanity, and nights of trouble were counted out unto me. 
When I He down, I say, When shall I arise, and the night be gone? and I am wearied with tossings about till the dawn of day. 
My flesh is covered with worms and clods of dust: my skin is burst open, and become loathsome. 
My days hasten away more swiftly than a weaver's shuttle, and they come to an end in the absence of hope. 
Oh remember that nothing but a breath is my life; that my eye will not again see happiness; 
The eye of him that seeth me now will not behold me again: thou fixest thy eyes upon me, and I am no more. 
As the cloud vanisheth and passeth away: so will he that goeth down to the nether world not come up again. 
He will return no more to his house, and his place will not recognize him any more. 
Therefore will I also not restrain my mouth: I will speak in the anguish of my spirit: I will complain in the bitterness of my soul. 
Am I a sea, or a monster, that thou settest a watch over me? 
For should I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall help me bear my complaint: 
Then wouldst thou frighten me with dreams, and with visions wouldst thou terrify me; 
So that my soul would choose strangling, death rather than these limbs of mine. 
I loathe it; I cannot live for ever: let me alone; for my days are but nought. 
What is the mortal, that thou shouldst make him great? and that thou shouldst direct thy heart toward him? 
And that thou shouldst visit him every morning, probe him every moment? 
How long wilt thou not turn thy regard from me, nor let; me loose till I swallow down my spittle? 
If I have sinned, what injury can I cause unto thee, O thou Guardian of men? why hast thou set me as an object for thee to strike at, so that I am become a burden to myself? 
And why wilt thou not forgive my transgression, and let my iniquity pass away? for soon must I lie down in the dust; and thou wilt seek for me, but I shall be no more. 
