Genesis.
Chapter 17.
And when Abram was ninety and nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God: walk before me, and be thou perfect. 
And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and I will multiply thee exceedingly. 
And Abram fell on his face, and God spoke with him, saying, 
As for me, behold my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt become the father of a multitude of nations. 
Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham; for the father of a multitude of nations have I made thee. 
And I will make thee exceedingly fruitful, and I will cause thee to become nations; and kings shall come out of thee. 
And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and between thy seed after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant: to be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee. 
And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land wherein thou sojournest, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God. 
And God said unto Abraham, But thou, for thy part, shalt keep my covenant, thou and thy seed after thee, in their generations. 
This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and between you, and between thy seed after thee: Every man-child among you shall be circumcised. 
And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and this shall serve as the token of the covenant between me and you. 
And at eight days old shall every man-child in your generations be circumcised among you, he that is born in the house, or bought with money of any stranger, who is not of thy seed. 
He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy money, must needs be circumcised; and my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. 
And any uncircumcised male, who circumciseth not the flesh of his foreskin, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath broken my covenant. 
And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be. 
And I will bless her, and give thee also a son of her; yea I will bless her, and she shall become a mother of nations; kings of people shall spring from her. 
Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed; and he said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is a hundred years old? and shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear? 
And Abraham said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee! 
And God said, Truly, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son; and thou shalt call his name Isaac; and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, for his seed after him. 
And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make of him a great nation. 
But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time in the next year. 
And when he had left off talking with him, God went up from Abraham. 
And Abraham now took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house; and he circumcised the flesh of their foreskin on the selfsame day, as God had spoken unto him. 
And Abraham was ninety and nine years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. 
And Ishmael his son, was thirteen years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. 
On the self-same day was Abraham circumcised, with Ishmael his son. 
And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought with money of the stranger, were circumcised with him. 
