1 Samuel.
Chapter 9.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiach, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor. 
And he had a son whose name was Saul, young and handsome; and there was not a man among the children of Israel handsomer than he: from his shoulders and upward he was taller than any of the people. 
And there were lost the asses belonging to Kish, Saul's father; and Kish said to Saul his son, Do take with thee one of the servants, and arise, go seek the asses. 
And he passed through the mountain of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalisha, but they found them not; then they passed through the land of Sha'alim, and there was nothing there; and he passed through the land of Benjamin, but they found them not. 
When they were come in the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father relinquish the care for the asses, and become anxious for us. 
And the other said unto him, Behold now, a man of God is in this city, and the man is honored; all that he ever saith will surely come to pass: now let us go thither; perhaps he can tell us our way that we should go. 
Then said Saul to his servant, But, behold, if we should go, what shall we bring to the man? for the bread is spent out of our vessels, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God: what have we with us? 
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have here in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver; and I will give this to the man of God, that he may tell us our way. 
In former times it was custom in Israel, that when a man went to inquire of God, he said thus, Come, and let us go as far as the seer; for the Prophet of the present day was in former times called a Seer. 
Then said Saul to his servant, Thy word is good: come, let us go. So they went unto the city where the man of God was. 
As they went up the ascent to the city, they found some maidens going out to draw water; and they said unto them, Is the seer here? 
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before you: make haste now, for this day came he to the city; because the people have a sacrifice today on the high-place; 
As soon as ye are come into the city, ye will straightway find him, before yet he can go up to the high-place to eat; for the people will not eat until he be come, because he always blesseth the sacrifice; afterward eat those that are invited; and now go you up; for just today will ye surely find him. 
And they went up into the city. They were entering into the city, when, behold, Samuel came out toward them, to go up to the high-place. 
And the Lord had revealed to Samuel's ear one day before Saul's coming, saying, 
About this time tomorrow will I send unto thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him as chief over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have beheld my people, because their cry is come unto me. 
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord addressed him, Behold, the man of whom I spoke to thee, This one shall rule over my people. 
And Saul drew near to Samuel within the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where is the house of the seer. 
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer: go up before me unto the high-place, and ye shall eat with me today; and I will let thee go in the morning, and all that is in thy heart will I tell thee. 
And as for thy asses that were lost unto thee this day three days ago, do not set thy heart on them; for they have been found. And to whom belongeth all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not to thee, and to all thy father's house? 
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a son of Benjamin, of one of the smallest tribes of Israel? and is not my family the least of all the families of the tribes of Benjamin? wherefore then hast thou spoken to me such thing? 
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the apartment; and he assigned them a place at the head of the invited guests, who were about thirty persons. 
And Samuel said unto the cook, Hand here the portion which I gave thee, of which I said unto thee, Put it away by thee. 
And the cook took up the shoulder, and that which was on it, and set it before Saul; and he said, Behold what is left! set it before thee, and eat; for unto this time hath it been kept from thee, since I said, I have invited the people. And Saul ate with Samuel on that day. 
And they went down from the high-place into the city, and he spoke with Saul upon the roof. 
And they got up early; and it came to pass when the morning-dawn arose, that Samuel called Saul to the roof, saying, Up, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out, both of them, he and Samuel, into the street. 
As they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Say to the servant that he pass on before us,—and he passed on,—but thou remain standing a while, and I will let thee hear the word of God. 
