Genesis.
Chapter 34.
And Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she had born unto Jacob, went out to look about among the daughters of the land. 
And Shechem the son of Chamor the Hivite, the prince of the country, saw her; and he took her, and lay with her, and did her violence. 
And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the maiden, and spoke kindly unto the maiden. 
And Shechem spoke unto Chamor his father, saying, Get me this girl for wife. 
And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter; but his sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until they were come. 
And Chamor the father of Shechem went out unto to Jacob to speak with him. 
And the sons of Jacob came from the field when they heard it, and the men were grieved, and it excited their anger greatly; because he had wrought a disgraceful thing in Israel to lie with the daughter of Jacob, and this ought not to be done. 
And Chamor spoke with them, saying, The soul of Shechem my son longeth for your daughter; give her, I pray you, unto him for wife. 
And intermarry with us; your daughters ye shall give unto us, and our daughters ye may take unto yourselves. 
And with us shall ye dwell; and the land shall be open before you; dwell and trade ye therein, and acquire possessions therein. 
And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brother, Let me but find grace in your eyes, and whatever ye may say unto me, I will give. 
Ask of me ever so much dowry and gift, and I will give, just as ye may say unto me; but give me the maiden for wife. 
And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Chamor his father with cunning, and spoke; because he had defiled Dinah their sister. 
And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that would be a reproach unto us. 
But on this condition will we consent unto you; if ye will become as we are, that every male of you be circumcised: 
Then will we give our daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters unto us; and we will dwell with you, and we will become one people. 
But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised, then will we take our daughter, and go our way. 
And their words were pleasing in the eyes of Chamor, and in the eyes of Shechem, the son of Chamor. 
And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob's daughter; and he was the most honored of all the house of his father. 
And Chamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city, and spoke with the men of their city, saying, 
These men are peaceably inclined with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and trade therein; and the land, behold, it is large enough on all sides before them; their daughters we will take unto us for wives, and our daughters we will give unto them. 
Only with this condition will the men consent unto us to dwell with us, to become one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they are circumcised. 
Their cattle and their substance and every beast of theirs will they not be ours? only let us consent unto them, that they may dwell with us. 
And unto Chamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went out of the gate of his city; and all the males were circumcised, all that went out of the gate of his city. 
And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers, took each his sword, and came upon the city unresisted and slew all the males. 
And they slew Chamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword; and they took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out. 
The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city, because they had defiled their sister. 
They took their sheep and their oxen, and their asses, and that which was in the city, and that which was in the field. 
And all their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives they took captive, and spoiled; and all that was in the house. 
And Jacob said unto Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me, to cause me to be hated among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites: and as I am but few in number, they may gather themselves together against me, and slay me; and I would be destroyed, I and my house. 
And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with a harlot? 
