Proverbs.
Chapter 14.
The wise among women buildeth her house; but the foolish pulleth it down with her own hands. 
In his uprightness walketh he that feareth the Lord; but perverse in his ways is he that despiseth him. 
In the mouth of the foolish is a stick for his pride; but the lips of the wise will preserve them. 
Where no oxen are, is the crib clean; but the abundance of harvests is only through the strength of the ox. 
A faithful witness will not lie; but a false witness constantly uttereth lies. 
A scorner seeketh wisdom, and there is none; but knowledge is easy to the man of understanding. 
Go far away from a foolish man, else thou wilt never know the lips of knowledge. 
The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way; but the folly of fools is deceit. 
The fool maketh a mockery of guilt; but among the upright there is good will. 
The heart knoweth its own bitterness; and with its joy can no stranger intermeddle. 
The house of the wicked will be destroyed: but the tent of the upright will flourish. 
There is many a way which seemeth even before a man; but its end are ways unto death. 
Even in laughter the heart feeleth pain; and at its end joy is sorrow. 
The backslider in heart will have enough of his own ways; and from him departeth the good men. 
The simple believeth every word; but the prudent man understandeth his steps. 
A wise man is fearful, and departeth from evil; but the fool exciteth himself, and is confident. 
He that is soon angry committeth folly; and a man of wicked devices is hated. 
The simple inherit folly; but the prudent crown themselves with knowledge. 
The bad sink down before the good; and the wicked are at the gates of the righteous. 
Even to his own neighbor is the poor man hateful; but the friends of the rich are many. 
He that despiseth his neighbor is a sinner; but he that is gracious to the poor—happiness attend him! 
Behold, those who contrive evil are in error; but kindness and truth attend on those who contrive what is good. 
In all painful labor there is profit; but mere words of the lips lead only to want. 
The crown of the wise is their riches; but the folly of fools is only folly. 
A deliverer of souls is the true witness; but a witness of deceit uttereth lies. 
In the fear of the Lord is the strong confidence of man, and unto his children will it be a place of shelter. 
The fear of the Lord is the source of life, teaching to avoid the snares of death. 
In the multitude of people is the king's glory; but in the want of a population is the downfall of the prince. 
He that is slow to anger is of great understanding; but he that is hasty of spirit holdeth up to view his folly. 
A sound heart is the life of the body; but jealousy is the rottenness of the bones. 
He that oppresseth the poor blasphemeth his Maker; but he that is gracious to the needy honoreth him. 
Through his own evil is the wicked thrust down; but even in his death doth the righteous have confidence. 
In the heart of the man of understanding resteth wisdom: but the little which is in the bosom of fools is made known. 
Righteousness exalteth a people; but the disgrace of nations is sin. 
The king's favor is bestowed on an intelligent servant; but his wrath is against him that deserveth shame. 
