Proverbs.
Chapter 15.
A soft answer turneth away fury; but a mortifying word stirreth up anger. 
The tongue of the wise maketh knowledge acceptable; but the mouth of fools sputtereth out folly. 
In every place are the eyes of the Lord, looking on the bad and the good. 
A healing word of the tongue is a tree of life; but perverseness therein is a breach to the spirit. 
A fool contemneth the correction of his father; but he that observeth admonition will become prudent. 
In the house of the righteous there is much treasure; but in the income of the wicked is trouble. 
The lips of the wise scatter knowledge; but the heart of fools is not reliable. 
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination of the Lord: but, the prayer of the upright obtaineth his favor. 
An abomination of the Lord is the way of the wicked; but him that pursueth righteousness will he love. 
An evil correction is destined for him that forsaketh the right path; he that hateth admonition will die. 
The nether world and corruption are open before the Lord: how much more then the hearts of the children of men! 
A scorner loveth not that one should admonish him: unto the wise doth he not go. 
A merry heart cheereth up the countenance; but when the heart feeleth pain the spirit is depressed. 
The heart of the man of understanding seeketh knowledge; but the mouth of fools feedeth on folly. 
All the days of the afflicted are evil; but he that is of a cheerful heart hath a continual feast. 
Better is little with the fear of the Lord, than great treasure and confusion therewith. 
Better is an allowance of herbs when love is there, than a stall-fed ox and hatred therewith. 
A man of fury stirreth up strife; but he that is slow to anger assuageth contention. 
The way of the slothful man is like a hedge of thorns; but the path of the upright is a levelled road. 
A wise son causeth his father to rejoice; but a foolish man despiseth his mother. 
Folly is joy to him that is void of sense; but a man of understanding walketh straight forward. 
Plans are frustrated without consultation; but through a multitude of counsellors canst thou maintain thyself. 
A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth; and a word spoken at the proper time, how good is it! 
The path of life leadeth upward for the intelligent, in order that he may avoid the nether world beneath. 
The Lord, will tear down the house of the proud; but he will set up firmly the boundary -stone of the widow. 
An abomination of the Lord are the thoughts of the bad man; but pleasant speeches are pure before him. 
He that is greedy after gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts will live. 
The heart of the righteous reflecteth to answer; but the mouth of the wicked sputtereth out evil things. 
The Lord is far from the wicked; but the prayer of the righteous doth he hear. 
What is pleasant to the light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart: a good report giveth marrow to the bones. 
The ear that heareth the admonition of life will ever abide in the midst of the wise. 
He that rejecteth correction despiseth his own soul; but he that heareth admonition acquireth intelligence. 
The fear of the Lord is the correction for wisdom; and before honor there must come humility. 
