Exodus.
Chapter 34.
And the Lord said unto Moses, Hew thyself two tables of stone like unto the first; and I will write upon these tables the words which were on the first tables, which thou didst break. 
And be ready by the morning, and come up in the morning unto mount Sinai, and present thyself there to me on the top of the mount. 
And no man shall come up with thee, neither let any man be seen throughout all the mount; neither let the flocks or herds feed near this mount. 
And he hewed two tables of stone like unto the first, and Moses rose up early in the morning, and went up unto mount Sinai, as the Lord had commanded him; and he took in his hand the two tables of stone. 
And the Lord descended in a cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed, by name, the Lord. 
And the Lord passed by before him, and proclaimed, The Lord is the immutable, eternal Being, the omnipotent God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abundant in beneficence and truth; 
Keeping mercy unto the thousandth generation, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty; visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon the children's children, unto the third and to the fourth generation. 
And Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward the earth, and prostrated himself. 
And he said, If now I have found grace in thy eyes, O Lord, let the Lord, I pray thee, go among us; even because it is a stiffnecked people; and pardon thou our iniquity and our sin, and take us for thy heritage. 
And he said, Behold, I make a covenant: before all thy people will I perform wonders, such as have not been done on all the earth, nor in any nation; and all the people amongst whom thou art shall see the work of the Lord; for it is a terrible thing that I will do with thee. 
Observe thou that which I command thee this day; behold, I will drive out before thee the Emorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite. 
Take heed to thyself, lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land against which thou goest up, lest it be for a snare in the midst of thee; 
But their altars shall ye destroy, and their statues shall ye break, and their groves shall ye cut down. 
For thou shalt worship no other God; for the Lord whose name is Watchful, is a watchful God. 
Make thou then no covenant with the inhabitants of the land; lest that, if they go astray after their gods, and sacrifice unto their gods, any one call thee, and thou eat of his sacrifice; 
And lest thou take of his daughters unto thy sons; and when his daughters go astray after their gods, they make thy sons also go astray after their gods. 
Thou shalt not make unto thyself any molten gods. 
The feast of unleavened bread shalt thou keep; seven days shalt thou eat unleavened bread, as I have commanded thee, in the time of the month of Abib; for in the month of Abib thou wentest forth out of Egypt. 
All that openeth the womb is mine; and every firstling that is a male among thy cattle, whether ox or lamb. 
But the firstling of an ass shalt thou redeem with a lamb: and if thou redeem him not, then shalt thou break his neck; all the first-born of thy sons shalt thou redeem; and none shall appear before me empty. 
Six days thou mayest work, but on the seventh day shalt thou rest: even in ploughing time and in harvest shalt thou rest. 
And the feast of weeks shalt thou observe, with the firstfruits of the wheat harvest; and the feast of ingathering at the closing of the year. 
Thrice in the year shall all thy males appear before the Lord, the Eternal, the God of Israel. 
For I will cast out nations before thee, and enlarge thy borders; yet shall no man desire thy land, when thou goest up to appear in the presence of the Lord thy God thrice in the year. 
Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven; neither shall be left unto the morning the sacrifice of the feast of the passover. 
The first of the first-fruits of thy land shalt thou bring unto the house of the Lord thy God: thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk. 
And the Lord said unto Moses, Write thee down these words; for after the tenor of these words have I made with thee a covenant and with Israel. 
And he remained there with the Lord forty days and forty nights; bread he did not eat, and water he did not drink; and he wrote upon the tables the words of the covenant, the ten commandments. 
And it came to pass, when Moses came down from mount Sinai, with the two tables of the testimony in Moses' hand, when be came down from the mount, that Moses knew not that the skin of his face shone, because he had spoken with him. 
And Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, and, behold, the skin of his face shone: and they were afraid to come nigh unto him. 
But Moses called unto them, and then returned unto him Aaron and all the princes of the congregation: and Moses spoke to them. 
And afterward all the children of Israel came nigh: and he commanded them all that which the Lord had spoken with him on mount Sinai. 
And when Moses had done speaking with them, he put a vail over his face. 
But when Moses went in before the Lord to speak with him, he took the vail off, until he came out; and then he came out, and spoke unto the children of Israel that which he had been commanded. 
And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses' face shone: and Moses put the vail again over his face, until he went in to speak with him. 
