1 Chronicles.
Chapter 3.
And these were the sons of David, who were born unto him in Hebron: The first-born, Amnon, of Achino'am the Jizre'elitess; the second, Daniel, of Abigayil the Carmelitess; 
The third, Abshalom the son of Ma'achah the daughter of Thalmai the king of Geshur; the fourth, Adoniyah the son of Chaggith; 
The fifth, Shephatyah of Abital; the sixth, Yithre'am of 'Eglah his wife. 
Six were born unto him in Hebron: and he reigned there seven years and six months; and thirty and three years he reigned in Jerusalem. 
And these were born unto him in Jerusalem: Shim'a, !!and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four, of Bathshua' the daughter of 'Ammiel; 
And Yibchar, and Elishama', and Eliphelet, 
And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia'. 
And Elishama', and Elyada', and Eliphelet, nine. 
These were all the sons of David, beside the sons of the concubines, and Thamar their sister. 
And Solomon's son was Rehobo'am. Abiyah his son, Assa his son, Jehoshaphat his son. 
Joram his son, Achazyahu his son, Joash his son, 
Amazyahu his son, 'Azaryah his son, Jotham his son, 
Achaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Menasseh his son, 
Amon his son, Josiah his son. 
And the sons of Josiah were, the first-born Jochanan, the second Jehoyakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum. 
And the sons of Jehoyakim: Jechonyah his son, Zedekiah his son. 
And the sons of Jechonyah: Assir, Shealthiel his son, 
And Malkiram, and Pedayah, and Shenazzar, Jekamyah, Hoshama', and Nedabyah. 
And the sons of Pedayah were, Zerubbabel, and Shim'i: and the sons of Zerubbabel were, Meshullam, and Chananyah, and Shelomith their sister; 
And Chashubah, and Ohel, and Berechyah, and Chassadyah, Jushab-chessed, five. 
And the sons of Chananyah: Pelatyah, and Jesha'yah; the sons of Rephayah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of 'Ohadiah, the sons of Shechanyah. 
And the sons of Shechanyah: Shema'yah: and the sons of Shema'yah were Chattush, and Yigal, and Bariach, and Ne'aryah, and Shaphat, six. 
And the sons of Ne'aryah: Elyo'enai, and Hezekiah, and 'Azrikam, three. 
And the sons of Elyo'enai were, Hodavyahu, and Elyashib, and Pelayah, and 'Akkub, and Jochanan, and Delayah, and 'Anani, seven. 
