Psalms.
Chapter 119.
ALEPH. Happy are they whose way is perfect, who walk in the law of the Lord. 
Happy are they who keep his testimonies, that seek him with all their heart. 
They also commit no injustice; in his ways do they walk. 
Thou thyself hast commanded us thy precepts, that we might keep them diligently. 
Oh that my ways were firmly directed to observe thy statutes! 
Then would I not be made ashamed, while I look at all thy commandments. 
I will thank thee with uprightness of heart, when I learn thy righteous ordinances. 
Thy statutes will I observe: oh forsake me not too greatly. 
BETH. Wherewithal shall a youth keep his way pure? by guarding it according to thy word. 
With all my heart have I sought thee: oh let me not wander astray from thy commandments. 
In my heart have I treasured up thy saying, in order that I may not sin against thee. 
Blessed art thou, O Lord: teach me thy statutes. 
With my lips have I related all the ordinances of thy mouth. 
On the way of thy testimonies have I been glad, as over all wealth. 
On thy precepts will I meditate, and direct my look unto thy paths. 
In thy statutes will I seek my delight: I will not forget thy word. 
GIMEL. Deal bountifully with thy servant: let me live, that I may observe thy word. 
Open thou my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. 
A stranger am I on the earth: hide not from me thy commandments. 
My soul is broken from longing for thy ordinances at all times. 
Thou hast rebuked the accursed proud, who go erringly astray from thy commandments. 
Roll away from me reproach and contempt; for thy testimonies have I kept. 
Although even princes should sit and speak against me, thy servant would still meditate on thy statutes. 
Also thy testimonies are my delight, my counsellors. 
DALETH. My soul cleaveth unto the dust: revive thou me according to thy word. 
My ways do I relate to thee, and thou answerest me: teach me thy statutes. 
Cause me to understand the way of thy precepts, that I may meditate on thy wonders. 
My soul droppeth away from grief: sustain me according to thy word. 
The way of falsehood do thou remove from me, and grant me graciously thy law. 
The way of truth have I chosen: thy ordinances have I set before me. 
I have adhered unto thy testimonies: O Lord, put me not to shame. 
The way of thy commandments will I run; for thou wilt enlarge my heart. 
HE. Teach me, O Lord, the way of thy statutes, and I shall keep it in all its windings. 
Give me understanding, that I may keep thy law, and I will observe it with all my heart. 
Guide me on the path of thy commandments; for therein do I find my delight. 
Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to desire for gain. 
Turn away my eyes from beholding vanity: on thy way do thou give me life. 
Fulfill unto thy servant thy promise for those who are devoted to thy fear. 
Cause to pass away my disgrace of which I have dread; for thy ordinances are good. 
Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: through thy righteousness do thou give my life. 
VAV. And let thy kindness come unto me, O Lord, thy salvation, according to thy promise. 
Then shall I have a word to answer the one that reproacheth me; for I trust in thy word. 
And snatch not the word of truth out of my mouth too greatly; for I wait for thy ordinances. 
So shall I observe thy law continually for ever and ever. 
And I will walk in an open space; for thy precepts have I sought. 
And I will speak of thy testimonies before kings, and will not be ashamed. 
And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I love. 
And so will I lift up my hands unto thy commandments, which I love, and I will meditate on thy statutes. 
ZAYIN. Remember thy word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to wait. 
This is my comfort in my affliction, that thy promise hath revived me. 
The presumptuous have held me too greatly in derision: yet have I not departed away from thy law. 
I remembered thy decrees which were from olden times, O Lord, and thus comforted myself. 
Horror seized on me because of the wicked that forsake thy law. 
Songs have thy statutes been unto me in the house of my pilgrimage. 
I remembered in the night thy name, O Lord, and observed thy law. 
This came to pass unto me, because I had kept thy precepts. 
CHETH. My portion is the Lord, have I said, that I might observe thy words. 
I make entreaty before thee with all my heart: be gracious unto me according to thy promise. 
I have thought over my ways, and made my feet return unto thy testimonies. 
I hastened, and delayed not to observe thy commandments. 
Companies of wicked men have surrounded me; but I have not forgotten thy law. 
At midnights do I constantly rise to give thanks unto thee, because of thy righteous decrees. 
An associate am I unto all that fear thee, and unto those that keep thy precepts. 
Of thy kindness, O Lord, is the earth full: teach me thy statutes. 
TETH. Thou hast shown goodness on thy servant, O Lord, according to thy word. 
The best of discernment and knowledge do thou teach me; for in thy commandments do I believe. 
Before I was afflicted I was in error; but now I observe thy saying. 
Thou art good, and doing good: teach me thy statutes. 
The presumptuous have invented falsehoods against me; but I will with all my heart indeed keep thy precepts. 
Gross as fat is their heart; but I take truly delight in thy law. 
It is well for me that I have been afflicted, in order that I might learn thy statutes. 
Better is unto me the law of thy mouth than thousands of gold and silver. 
YOD. Thy hands have made me and established me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments. 
Those that fear thee will see me and be rejoiced; because I have waited for thy word. 
I know, O Lord, that thy decrees are righteous, and that in faithfulness thou hast afflicted me. 
Let, I pray thee, thy kindness come to comfort me, according to thy promise unto thy servant. 
Let thy mercies come unto me, that I may live; for thy law is my delight. 
Let the presumptuous be made ashamed; because they have without a cause dealt perversely with me; but I will indeed meditate on thy precepts. 
Let those that fear thee return unto me, and those that know thy testimonies. 
Let my heart be entire in thy statutes, in order that I may not be put to shame. 
CAPH. My soul ardently desireth for thy salvation: for thy word do I wait. 
My eyes look eagerly for thy promise, saying, When wilt thou comfort me? 
For I am become like a bottle in the smoke: yet do I not forget thy statutes. 
How many are the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute justice on my persecutors? 
The presumptuous have dug pits for me, which is not in accordance with thy law. 
All thy commandments are founded on truth: without cause they persecute me; help thou me. 
But little was wanting that they had consumed me upon earth; but I have truly not forsaken thy precepts. 
According to thy kindness give me life, that I may observe the testimony of thy mouth. 
LAMED. To eternity, O Lord, standeth firm thy word with the heavens. 
Unto all generations endureth thy faithfulness: thou hast established the earth, and she standeth. 
According to thy ordinances they exist this day: for all are thy servants. 
Unless thy law had been my delights, I should long since have been lost in my affliction. 
Never will I forget thy precepts; for with them thou hast kept me alive. 
Thine am I, save me; for thy precepts have I sought. 
Wicked men have waited for me to destroy me; but I will reflect on thy testimonies. 
Of all perfection have I seen the end; but thy commandment is exceedingly extended. 
MEM. Oh how do I love thy law! all the day is it my meditation. 
Wiser than my enemy doth thy commandment make me; for it is perpetually with me. 
Above all my teachers have I obtained intelligence; for thy testimonies are my meditation. 
More than the elders do I possess understanding; because thy precepts do I keep. 
From every evil path have I withholden my feet, in order that I might observe thy word. 
From thy ordinances have I not departed; for thou hast instructed me. 
How much sweeter are to my palate thy sayings than honey to my mouth! 
Through thy precepts shall I obtain understanding: therefore do I hate every path of falsehood. 
NUN. A lamp unto my feet is thy word, and a light unto my path. 
I have sworn, and I will perform it, to observe thy righteous ordinances. 
I am afflicted exceedingly much: O Lord, revive me, according to thy word. 
Receive in favor the freewill-offerings of my mouth, I beseech thee, O Lord, and teach me thy ordinances. 
My life is in my hand continually: yet thy law do I not forget. 
The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet have I not erred from thy precepts. 
I have taken thy testimonies as a heritage to eternity; for they are the joy of my heart. 
I have inclined my heart to perform thy statutes always, in all their ways. 
SAMECH. Those of divided thoughts I hate; but thy law do I love. 
My shelter and my shield art thou: for thy word do I wait. 
Depart from me, ye evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of God. 
Uphold me according to thy promise, that I may live, and let me not be made ashamed of my hope. 
Support me that I may be placed in safety, and I will direct my regard unto thy statutes continually. 
Thou hast trodden down all that erringly stray from thy statutes; for falsehood is their deceit. 
Like dross dost thou put away all the wicked of the earth: therefore do I love thy testimonies. 
My flesh trembleth shudderingly from dread of thee, and of thy decrees am I afraid. 
'AYIN. I have executed justice and righteousness: leave me not to those who oppress me. 
Protect thy servant for good: let not the presumptuous oppress me. 
My eyes look eagerly for thy salvation, and for thy righteous promise. 
Deal with thy servant according to thy kindness, and thy statutes do thou teach me. 
I am thy servant: give me understanding, that I may know thy testimonies. 
It is time to act for the Lord: they have broken thy law. 
Therefore do I love thy commandments more than gold, and more than fine gold. 
Therefore do I esteem all thy precepts in all things as right: every path of falsehood do I hate. 
PE. Wonderful are thy testimonies: therefore doth my soul keep them. 
The opening of thy words giveth light, it giveth understanding unto the simple. 
I opened my mouth, and panted for breath; because for thy commandments did I long. 
Turn thou unto me, and be gracious unto me, as is thy wont unto those that love thy name. 
My steps establish thou through thy promise, and suffer not any wrong to have dominion over me. 
Deliver me from the oppression of man, and I will observe thy precepts. 
Let thy face shine upon thy servant, and teach me thy statutes. 
Streams of water have run down my eyes; because they had not observed thy law. 
TZADDE. Righteous art thou, O Lord, and upright are thy decrees. 
Thou hast commanded thy testimonies, as righteous and faithful exceedingly. 
My zeal destroyeth me; because my assailants have forgotten thy words. 
Thy promise is greatly refined, and thy servant loveth it. 
I am little and despised: yet thy precepts have I not forgotten. 
Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth. 
Distress and trouble have overtaken me: yet are thy commandments my delights. 
Righteous are thy testimonies for everlasting: give me understanding, that I may live. 
KOPH. I have called with all my heart: answer me, O Lord: thy statutes will I keep. 
I have called on thee, save me, and I will observe thy testimonies. 
I come before thee in the dawn of morning, and cry: for thy word do I wait. 
My eyes are awake before the night-watches, that I may meditate in thy saying. 
Hear my voice according to thy kindness: O Lord, according to thy decree do thou grant me life. 
They that pursue mischievous devices draw nigh: from thy law are they far. 
Near art thou, O Lord; and all thy commandments are the truth. 
Of old already I knew of thy testimonies; because for eternity hast thou founded them. 
RESH. Look on my affliction, and release me; for thy law have I not forgotten. 
Plead my cause, and deliver me: according to thy promise do thou revive me. 
Far from the wicked is salvation; because thy statutes have they not sought for. 
Thy mercies are abundant, O Lord; according to thy decrees do thou revive me. 
Many are my persecutors and my assailants: yet from thy testimonies do I not turn away. 
I beheld the treacherous, and felt disgust; because they observed not thy saying. 
Behold that I love thy precepts: O Lord, according to thy kindness do thou revive me. 
The summit of thy word is truth: and the whole of thy righteous judgment endureth for ever. 
SHIN. Princes have persecuted me without a cause; but of thy word standeth my heart in dread. 
I am rejoiced over thy promise, as one that findeth great spoil. 
Falsehood I hate and abhor: but thy law do I love. 
Seven times in the day do I praise thee because of thy righteous decrees. 
Abundant peace have they who love thy law; and thee is nothing that causeth them to stumble. 
I have hoped for thy salvation, O Lord, and thy commandments have I fulfilled. 
My soul hath observed thy testimonies, and I love them exceedingly. 
I have observed thy precepts and thy testimonies; because all my ways are before thee. 
TAV. Let my entreaty come near before thee, O Lord: according to thy word grant me understanding. 
Let my supplication come before thee: according to thy promise do thou deliver me. 
My lips shall utter praise; because thou wilt teach me thy statutes. 
My tongue shall speak loudly of thy promise; for all thy commandments are righteous. 
Let thy hand be ready to help me; for thy precepts have I chosen. 
I have longed for thy salvation, O Lord; and thy law is my delights. 
Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee: and let thy decrees help me. 
I have gone erringly astray like a lost sheep: seek thy servant; for thy commandments have I not forgotten. 
