Proverbs.
Chapter 21.
Like brooks of water is a king's heart in the hand of the Lord: whithersoever it pleaseth him doth he turn it. 
Every way of a man is straight in his own eyes; but the Lord weigheth the hearts. 
To exercise righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice. 
Haughtiness of the eyes, and an immoderate heart, are the sinful field of the wicked. 
The plans of the diligent tend only to plenty; but every hasty man is destined only to want. 
The getting of treasures by a tongue of falsehood is like the fleeting breath of those that seek death. 
The robbery of the wicked will drag them away; because they refuse to execute justice. 
Perverse is the way of the man that is estranged from goodness; but as for the pure, his work is upright. 
It is better to dwell in a corner of a roof, than with a quarrelsome woman in a roomy house. 
The soul of the wicked longeth for evil: his neighbor findeth no grace in his eyes. 
When the scorner is punished, the simple is made wise: and when the wise is taught intelligence, he receiveth knowledge. 
The righteous regardeth attentively the house of the wicked; but God overturneth the wicked into unhappiness. 
Whoso stoppeth his ears against the cry of the poor, he also will cry himself, but shall not be answered. 
A gift in secret pacifieth anger, and a bribe in the bosom, strong fury. 
It is joy to the righteous to execute justice; but it is a terror to wrong-doers. 
The man that wandereth astray out of the way of intelligence shall rest in the assembly of the departed. 
He that loveth pleasure will be a man of want: he that loveth wine and oil will not become rich. 
The wicked shall be a ransom for the righteous, and the treacherous shall be put in the stead of the upright. 
It is better to dwell in a desert land, than with a quarrelsome and vexatious woman. 
There are a desirable treasure and oil in the dwelling of the wise; but a foolish man will swallow it up. 
He that pursueth righteousness and kindness will find life, righteousness, and honor. 
A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty, and casteth down the strength in which they trusted. 
Whoso guardeth his mouth and his tongue guardeth his soul against distresses. 
The presumptuous and proud, scorner is his name, dealeth in the wrath of presumption. 
The longing of the slothful will kill him; for his hands refuse to labor. 
All the day he feeleth a great longing; but the righteous giveth and withholdeth not. 
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination: how much more, when he bringeth it with a sinful purpose? 
A lying witness shall perish; but the man that is obedient to the law can speak for ever. 
A wicked man showeth impudence in his face; but as for the upright, he will consider well his way. 
There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the Lord. 
The horse is prepared for the day of battle; but with the Lord is the victory. 
