Job.
Chapter 20.
Then answered Zophar the Na'amathite, and said, 
Even therefore do my inmost thoughts give me an answer, and for this reason do I feel a strong excitement within me. 
Reproof which casteth shame on me must I hear; yet out of my understanding will the spirit give me an answer. 
Dost thou know this? from the very beginning of things, from the very time when man was placed upon earth it was, 
That the triumphal shouting of the wicked is ever of but a recent date, and the joy of the hypocrite endureth only for a moment. 
Though his exaltation should mount up to the heavens, and his head should reach unto the clouds; 
Yet when he but turneth round will he vanish for ever; those who have seen him will say, Where is he? 
Like a dream will he fly away, and men will find him no more; yea, he will be chased away like a vision of the night. 
If an eye have surveyed him, it will not do so again, and it will not behold him any more in his place. 
His children will suffer oppression from the indigent, and his hands will have to restore his ill-gotten wealth. 
Now his bones are full of his youthful vigor; but it will suddenly lie down with him in the dust. 
If the evil be sweet in his mouth, he will conceal it under his tongue; 
He will cherish it, and not forsake it; and hold it back within his palate; 
His food is thus changed within his bowels, and becometh the venom of asps within him. 
The wealth which he hath swallowed, will he have to vomit up again; God will drive it out of his belly. 
The poison of asps will he have to suck; the viper's tongue will slay him. 
He shall not look with pleasure on streams, on flowing brooks of honey and cream. 
He restoreth what he hath labored for, and will not swallow it down; however much he may have obtained by toil, he will not have any joy of it. 
Because he oppressed and forsook the indigent; because he took violently away a house, shall he not rebuild it; 
Because he knew not quietness in his bosom, shall he not escape through what is the most precious to him. 
Nothing was spared from his craving to eat: therefore shall his wealth not prosper. 
In the fulness of his abundance will distress assail him: every hand of those he troubled will come against him. 
In order to fill his belly, God will send out against him the fury of his wrath, and will rain it upon him for his eating. 
If he flee from the iron weapon, the brazen bow will strike him through. 
He draweth it, and it cometh out of the body; yea, out of his gall the glittering arrow cometh forth: over him come the terrors of death. 
Entire darkness is laid by for his treasures: a fire not urged by blowing will consume him; it will destroy any one that is left in his tent. 
The heavens will lay open his iniquity; and the earth will raise herself up against him. 
The product of his house will be banished, flowing away on the day of his wrath. 
This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and his decreed heritage from God. 
