2 Chronicles.
Chapter 13.
In the eighteenth year of king Jerobo'am became Abiyah king over Judah. 
Three years he reigned in Jerusalem: and his mother's name was Michayahu the daughter of Uriel of Gib'ah. And there was war between Abiyah and Jerobo'am. 
And Abiyah joined the battle with an army of valiant men of war, even of four hundred thousand chosen men: Jerobo'am also set the battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men, being mighty men of valor. 
And Abiyah stood up above mount Zemarayim, which is in the mountain of Ephraim, and said, Hear me, O Jerobo'am, and all Israel; 
Ought ye not to know that the Lord the God of Israel hath given the kingdom over Israel to David for eternity, yea, to him and to his sons by a covenant of salts? 
But there rose up Jerobo'am the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the son of David, and rebelled against his lord. 
And there were gathered unto him idle men, worthless persons, and put themselves in violent resistance against Rehobo'am the son of Solomon: while Rehobo'am was young and tender hearted, and could not sustain himself before them. 
And now ye think to sustain yourselves before the kingdom of the Lord in the hand of the sons of David; and ye are a great multitude; and with you are golden calves, which Jerobo'am hath made for you as gods. 
Have ye not cast out the priests of the Lord, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites, and have made yourselves priests like the people of the various lands? so that whosoever cometh to consecrate himself with a young bullock and seven rams can become a priest to things that are no gods? 
But as for us, the Lord is our God, and we have not forsaken him; and the priests, who minister unto the Lord, are the sons of Aaron; and the Levites are at their appointed work; 
And they burn unto the Lord burnt-offerings every morning and every evening and incense of sweet spices; and the rows of the show-bread do they place upon the pure table; and there is the candlestick of gold with its lamps, to light the same every evening; for we keep the charge of the Lord our God, while ye have truly forsaken him. 
And, behold, with us at our head, is the true God, with his priests with trumpets for blowing the alarm, to sound an alarm against you. O children of Israel, do not fight against the Lord the God of your fathers; for ye will not prosper. 
But Jerobo'am caused an ambush to come around behind them: so they themselves were before Judah, and the ambush was behind them. 
And when Judah turned round, behold, they had the battle before and behind: and they cried unto the Lord, and the priests blew with the trumpets. 
And then gave the men of Judah a shout: and it came to pass, as the men of Judah shouted, that God struck down Jerobo'am and all Israel before Abiyah and Judah. 
And the children of Israel fled from before Judah, and God gave them up into their hand. 
And Abiyah and his people smote them with a great defeat, and there fell down slain of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men. 
Thus were the children of Israel humbled at that time: and the children of Judah became powerful, because they relied upon the Lord the God of their fathers. 
And Abiyah made pursuit after Jerobo'am, and captured cities from him, Bethel with its villages, and Jeshanah with its villages, and 'Ephrayin with its villages. 
And Jerobo'am did not recover strength again in the days of Abiyahu: and the Lord struck him, and he died. 
But Abiyahu became strong, and he took himself fourteen wives, and begat twenty and two sons, and sixteen daughters. 
And the rest of the acts of Abiyah, and his ways, and his speeches, are written in the writing of the prophet 'Iddo. 
