Leviticus.
Chapter 27.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, If a man make a particular vow, to give the estimated value of persons in honor of the Lord: 
If the estimated value concern a male from twenty years old, and unto sixty years old, then shall the estimation be fifty shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary. 
And if it be a female, then shall the estimation be thirty shekels. 
And if the person be from five years old and unto twenty years old, then shall the estimation of the male be twenty shekels, and for the female ten shekels. 
And if the person be from a month old and unto five years old, then shall the estimation of the male be five shekels of silver, and for the female the estimation shall be three shekels of silver. 
And if the person be from sixty years old and upward, if it be a male, then shall the estimation be fifteen shekels, and for the female ten shekels. 
But if he be too poor for this estimation, then shall he present himself before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according to the ability to pay of him that hath vowed shall the priest value him. 
And if it he a beast, whereof men can bring an offering unto the Lord, all that a man giveth of such unto the Lord shall be holy. 
He shall not alter it, nor change it, a good for a bad one, or a bad for a good one; and if he should change beast for beast, then shall it together with its exchange be holy. 
And if it be any unclean beast, of which they cannot offer a sacrifice unto the Lord, then shall he present the beast before the priest: 
And the priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad; as the priest valueth it, so shall it be. 
And if he will redeem it, then shall he add a fifth part thereof unto the estimated value. 
And if a man sanctify his house as holy unto the Lord, then shall the priest value it, whether it be good or bad; as the priest may value it, so shall it stand. 
And if he that sanctified it will redeem his house, then shall he add the fifth part of the money of the estimated value unto it, and it shall remain his. 
And if a man sanctify some part of a field of his possession unto the Lord, then shall the estimation be in proportion to its required seed: the seed of a chomer of barley at fifty shekels of silver. 
If immediately after the year of the jubilee he sanctify his field, according to this estimation shall it stand. 
But if after the jubilee he sanctify his field, then shall the priest reckon unto him the money in proportion to the years that remain, until the year of the jubilee, and it shall be deducted from the estimation. 
And if he that sanctified the field will redeem it, then shall he add the fifth part of the money of the estimated value unto it, and it shall be assured to him. 
But if he will not redeem the field, or if he have sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more. 
But the field, when it is freed in the jubilee, shall be holy unto the Lord, as a devoted field: to the priest shall it belong as his possession. 
And if a man sanctify a field which he hath bought, which is not of the fields of his possession, unto the Lord: 
Then shall the priest reckon unto him the amount of the estimated value to the year of the jubilee; and he shall give this estimation on that day, as a holy thing unto the Lord. 
In the year of the jubilee the field shall return unto him of whom he bought it, to the one to whom belongeth the possession of the land. 
And all estimations of value shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary; twenty gerahs shall be the shekel. 
Only the first-born which shall, by being first born, be sacred unto the Lord among cattle, no man shall sanctify; whether it be ox, or lamb, it is the Lord's. 
And if it be an unclean animal, then shall he redeem it according to the estimated value, and he shall add its fifth part thereto; and if it be not redeemed, then shall it be sold according to the estimated value. 
But any devoted thing, which a man may devote unto the Lord of all that he hath, both of man and beast, and of the field of his possession, shall not be sold nor redeemed: every devoted thing is most holy unto the Lord. 
Any one condemned, who shall be condemned to death among men, shall not be redeemed: he shall be put to death. 
And every tithe of the land, of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree, belongeth to the Lord; it is holy unto the Lord. 
And if a man will redeem any part of his tithe, its fifth part shall he add thereto. 
And concerning the tithe of the herds, or of the flocks, whatsoever passeth under the rod, the tenth shall be holy unto the Lord. 
He shall not search whether it be good or bad, neither shall he change it: and if he should change it, then both it and the exchange thereof shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed. 
These are the commandments, which the Lord commanded Moses for the children on mount Sinai. 
