Proverbs.
Chapter 17.
Better is a piece of dry bread, and quiet therewith, than a house full of the sacrifices of contention. 
An intelligent servant will have rule over a son that bringeth shame, and among the brothers will he have part of the inheritance. 
The crucible is for silver, and the furnace for gold; but the Lord probeth the hearts. 
An evil-doer listeneth to unjust lips: falsehood giveth ear to a tongue that bringeth destruction. 
Whoso mocketh the poor blasphemeth his Maker: he that is glad at calamities will not remain unpunished. 
The crown of old men are children's children; and the ornament of children are their fathers. 
High-toned language is not seemly to a worthless fool: and yet much less the language of falsehood to a noble. 
As a precious stone appeareth a bribe in the eyes of him that obtaineth it: whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth. 
He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeateth a matter separateth confident friends. 
A reproof penetrateth more deeply into a wise man, than a hundred stripes into a fool. 
Only rebellion doth a bad man seek: therefore a cruel messenger will be sent out against him. 
A man may meet a she-bear robbed of her whelps, but not a fool in his folly. 
Whoso bestoweth evil in return for good—evil shall not depart from his house. 
As one letteth loose a stream of water, so is the beginning of strife: therefore before it be enkindled, leave off the contest. 
He that declareth the wicked innocent, and he that condemneth the righteous, yea, both of them are equally an abomination to the Lord. 
Wherefore is the purchase-money in the hand of a fool to acquire wisdom, seeing he hath no sense? 
A friend loveth at all times, and as a brother is he born for the time of distress. 
A man void of sense pledgeth his hand, and becometh surety for his friend. 
He loveth transgression that loveth quarrel; and he that maketh high his door seeketh destruction. 
He that hath a froward heart will not find happiness; and he that hath a perverse tongue will fall into evil. 
He that begetteth a fool doth it to his sorrow; and the father of a worthless fool cannot have any joy. 
A merry heart causeth a healthy appearance of the countenance, but a depressed spirit drieth up the bones. 
A wicked man taketh a bribe out of the bosom, to pervert the paths of justice. 
Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes of a fool are at the ends of the earth. 
A foolish son is a vexation to his father, and bitterness to her that hath born him. 
To punish the just with a fine even is not good, nor to strike the noble -hearted for their equity. 
He that holdeth back his speeches hath knowledge; and he that is sparing of his spirit is a man of understanding. 
Even a fool, when he keepeth silence, is counted wise: he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding. 
