Genesis.
Chapter 33.
And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold, Esau came, and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah, and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids. 
And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost. 
And he himself passed on before them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother. 
And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him; and they wept. 
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children; and said, Who are these with thee? And he said, The children whom God hath graciously given thy servant. 
Then came the handmaids near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves. 
And Leah also with her children came near, and they bowed themselves; and after that came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves. 
And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I have met? And he said, To find grace in the eyes of my lord. 
And Esau said, I have enough, my brother, keep unto thyself what thou hast. 
And Jacob said, This must not be, I pray thee; if I have but found grace in thy eyes, then do thou receive my present at my hand; since I have seen thy face, it is as though I had seen the face of an angel, and because thou hast received me kindly. 
Take, I pray thee, my present that is brought to thee; because God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have a plenty of all. And he urged him, and he took it. 
And he said, Let us depart, and move farther, and I will travel near thee. 
And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children are tender, and the flocks and herds with young are a charge on me: and if they should overdrive them one day, all the flock would die. 
Let my lord, I pray thee, pass on before his servant: and I will lead on slowly, according to the cattle that goeth before me and the children may be able to travel, until I come unto my lord unto Seir. 
And Esau said, Let me, I pray thee, leave with thee some of the people that are with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me only final grace in the eyes of my lord. 
So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir. 
And Jacob journeyed to Succoth and built himself a house, and for his cattle he made booths; therefore he called the name of the place Succoth. 
And Jacob came in good health to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padan-aram; and he encamped before the city. 
And he bought the parcel of the field, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Chamor, the father of Shechem, for a hundred kessitah. 
And he erected there an altar, and called it, El-Elohe-Yisrael. 
