Genesis.
Chapter 25.
Then Abraham took again a wife, and her name was Keturah. 
And she bore him Zimran, and Yokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Yishbak, and Shuach. 
And Yokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. 
And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Chanoch, and Abida', and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah. 
And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac. 
But unto the sons of the concubines that Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts; and he sent them away from Isaac his son, while he was yet living, eastward, unto the east country. 
And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, one hundred seventy and five years. 
Then Abraham departed this life, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years, and was gathered to his people. 
And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zochar the Hittite, which is before Mamre; 
The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth: there was Abraham buried, with Sarah his wife. 
And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed Isaac his son; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lachai-roi. 
Now theses are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bore unto Abraham. 
And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the first-born of Ishmael, Nebayoth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 
And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 
Chadad, and Tema, Yetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. 
These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their towns, and by their castles; twelve princes according to their nations. 
And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, one hundred and thirty and seven years: and he departed this life and died; and was gathered unto his people. 
And they dwelt from Chavilah unto Shur, that is before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria: he dwelt in the presence of all his brethren. 
And these are the generations of Isaac, the son of Abraham: Abraham begat Isaac. 
And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian, of Padan-aram, the sister to Laban the Syrian, to himself as wife. 
And Isaac entreated the Lord in behalf of his wife, because she was barren: and the Lord was entreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived. 
And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If it be so, why did I desire this? And she went to inquire of the Lord. 
And the Lord said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and one people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shall serve the younger. 
And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. 
And the first came out red, all over like a hairy garment; and they called his name Esau. 
And after that came his brother out, his hand holding on to Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them. 
And the boys grew up: and Esau was an expert hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents. 
And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison; but Rebekah loved Jacob. 
And Jacob at one time boiled pottage, and Esau came from the field, and he was faint. 
And Esau said to Jacob, Let me swallow down, I pray thee, some of that yonder red pottage, for I am faint; therefore was his name called Edom. 
And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy right of first-born. 
And Esau said, Behold, I am going to die; and what profit then can the right of first-born be to me? 
And Jacob said, Swear to me this day; and he swore unto him, and he sold his right of first-born unto Jacob. 
Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles, and he did eat and drink, and he rose up, and went his way; thus Esau despised the birthright. 
