Micah.
Chapter 5.
(4:14) Now gather thyself in troops, O daughter of troops; they lay siege against us: with the rod they smite upon the cheek the judge of Israel. 
(5:1) But thou, Beth-lechem Ephratah, the least though thou be among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel, whose origin is from olden times, from most ancient days. 
(5:2) Therefore will he give them up, until the time that she who travaileth hath brought forth: then shall the remnant of his brethren return with the children of Israel. 
(5:3) And he shall stand forward and feed Israel through the strength of the Lord, through the excellency of the name of the Lord his God: and they shall abide safely; for now shall he be great even unto the ends of the earth. 
(5:4) And in this manner shall there be peace: If Asshur should come into our land; and if he should tread in our palaces, then will we raise up against him seven shepherds, and eight anointed men. 
(5:5) And they shall lay waste the land of Asshur with the sword, and the land of Nimrod in the gates of its cities: thus will he deliver us from Asshur, if he should come into our land, and if he should tread within our borders. 
(5:6) And the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many people like dew from the Lord, like showers upon the herbs, that wait not for man, nor hope for the sons of man. 
(5:7) And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the nations, in the midst of many people, like a lion among the beasts of the forest, like a young lion among flocks of sheep: who, if he break in, both treadeth down, and teareth in pieces, while none can deliver. 
(5:8) High shall thy hand be lifted up above thy adversaries, and all thy enemies shall be cut off. 
(5:9) And it shall come to pass on that day, saith the Lord, that I will cut off thy horses out of the midst of thee, and I will destroy thy chariots; 
(5:10) And I will cut off the cities of thy land, and I will throw down all thy strongholds; 
(5:11) And I will cut off the arts of witchcraft out of thy hand; and soothsayers shalt thou have no more; 
(5:12) And I will cut off thy graven images, and thy statues out of the midst of thee; and thou shalt no more prostrate thyself to the work of thy hands; 
(5:13) And I will pluck up thy groves out of the midst of thee; and I will destroy thy enemies. 
(5:14) And I will in anger and in fury execute vengeance upon the nations, upon those that have not hearkened. 
