Genesis.
Chapter 43.
And the famine was sore in the land. 
And it came to pass, when they had completely eaten up the provisions which they had brought out of Egypt, that their father said unto them, Go again, buy us a little food. 
And Judah said unto him, thus, The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you. 
If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy thee food; 
But if thou sendest him not, we will not go down; for the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you. 
And Israel said, Wherefore have ye dealt so ill with me, as to tell the man that ye have yet another brother? 
And they said, The man inquired particularly concerning us, and our kindred, saying, Is your father yet alive? have ye another brother? and we told him according to the tenor of these words: could we possibly know that he would say, Bring down your brother? 
And Judah said unto Israel his father, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may live, and not die, both we, and thou, as also our little ones. 
I will be surety for him; from my hand shalt thou require him: if I bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then shall I have sinned against thee all the days. 
For, if we had not lingered, surely we had now returned the second time. 
And their father Israel said unto them, If it must be so now, do this: take of the best products of the land in your vessels, and carry down to the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spices and lotus, pistachio-nuts and almonds; 
And twofold money take in your hand; and the money that was put back in the mouth of your sacks, you must carry back in your hand; peradventure it was an oversight; 
Also your brother take along, and arise, go again unto the man. 
And may God the Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away to you your other brother, and Benjamin. And I, if I am to be bereaved, let me be bereaved. 
And the men took that present; and twofold money they took in their hand, as also Benjamin; and they rose up, and went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph. 
And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the superintendent of his house, Bring these men into the house, and slay, and make ready; for with me shall these men dine at noon. 
And the man did as Joseph had said; and the man brought the men into Joseph's house. 
And the men were afraid, because they were brought into Joseph's house: and they said, Because of the money that came back in our sacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may seek occasion against us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, together with our asses. 
And they came near to the man who was appointed over Joseph's house, and they spoke with him at the door of the house. 
And they said, Pardon, my lord, we came down at the first time to buy food: 
And it came to pass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold, every man's money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in its full weight; and we have brought it back in our hand. 
And other money have we brought down in our hand to buy food; we know not who hath put our money in our sacks. 
And he said, Peace be to you, fear not; your God, and the God of your father, hath given you a treasure in your sacks; your money hath come to me. And he brought Simeon out unto them. 
And the man brought the men into Joseph's house; and he gave them water, and they washed their feet, and he gave provender to their asses. 
And they made ready the present before Joseph came home at noon; for they had heard that they should eat bread there. 
And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the earth. 
And he asked them after their welfare, and said, Is your old father well, of whom ye spoke? is he yet alive? 
And they answered, Thy servant, our father, is in good health, he is yet alive. And they bowed down their heads, and prostrated themselves. 
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, Is this your youngest brother, of whom ye spoke unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son. 
And Joseph hastened away, for his affection toward his brother became enkindled, and he sought to weep; and he entered into his chamber and wept there. 
And he washed his face, and came out, and refrained himself, and said, Set on the bread. 
And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves; and for the Egyptians, who did eat with him, by themselves; because the Egyptians may not eat bread with the Hebrews; for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians. 
And they sat before him, the first-born according to his prior birth, and the youngest according to his youth; and the men marveled one at the other. 
And he sent portions unto them from before him; but Benjamin's portion exceeded the portions of all of them fivefold. And they drank, and were merry with him. 
