Mark.
Chapter 6.
And He went forth from there, and came to His own country, and His disciples follow Him, 
and Sabbath having come, He began to teach in the synagogue, and many hearing were astonished, saying, “From where did this One hear these things? And what is the wisdom that was given to Him, that also such mighty works are done through His hands? 
Is this not the carpenter, the Son of Mary, and brother of James, and Joses, and Judas, and Simon? And are His sisters not here with us?” And they were being stumbled at Him. 
And Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country, and among his relatives, and in his own house”; 
and He was not able to do any mighty work there, except having put hands on a few sick, He healed them; 
and He wondered because of their unbelief. And He was going around the villages, in a circle, teaching, 
and He calls near the Twelve, and He began to send them forth two by two, and He was giving them power over the unclean spirits, 
and He commanded them that they may take nothing for the way, except a staff only—no leather pouch, no bread, no brass in the girdle, 
but having been shod with sandals, and you may not put on two coats. 
And He said to them, “Whenever you may enter into a house, remain there until you may depart from there, 
and as many as may not receive you nor hear you, going out from there, shake off the dust that is under your feet for a testimony to them; truly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom or Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.” 
And having gone forth they were preaching that men might convert, 
and they were casting out many demons, and they were anointing many sick with oil, and they were healing them. 
And King Herod heard (for His Name became public), and he said, “John the Immerser was raised out of the dead, and because of this the mighty powers are working in him.” 
Others said, “It is Elijah,” and others said, “It is a prophet, or as one of the prophets.” 
And Herod having heard, said, “He whom I beheaded—John—this is he; he was raised out of the dead.” 
For Herod himself, having sent forth, laid hold on John, and bound him in the prison, because of Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip, because he married her, 
for John said to Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have the wife of your brother”; 
and Herodias was having a quarrel with him, and was willing to kill him, and was not able, 
for Herod was fearing John, knowing him to be a righteous and holy man, and was keeping watch over him, and having heard him, was doing many things, and hearing him gladly. 
And a seasonable day having come when Herod on his birthday was making a banquet to his great men, and to the chiefs of thousands, and to the first men of Galilee, 
and the daughter of that Herodias having come in, and having danced, and having pleased Herod and those dining with him, the king said to the girl, “Ask of me whatever you will, and I will give to you,” 
and he swore to her, “Whatever you may ask me, I will give to you—to the half of my kingdom.” 
And she, having gone forth, said to her mother, “What will I ask for myself?” And she said, “The head of John the Immerser”; 
and having come in immediately with haste to the king, she asked, saying, “I will that you may immediately give me the head of John the Immerser on a plate.” 
And the king, made very sorrowful because of the oaths and of those reclining with him, would not put her away, 
and immediately the king having sent a guardsman, commanded his head to be brought, 
and he having gone, beheaded him in the prison, and brought his head on a plate, and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother; 
and having heard, his disciples came and took up his corpse, and laid it in the tomb. 
And the apostles are gathered together to Jesus, and they told Him all, and how many things they did, and how many things they taught, 
and He said to them, “Come yourselves apart to a desolate place, and rest a little,” for those coming and those going were many, and not even to eat had they opportunity, 
and they went away to a desolate place, in the boat, by themselves. 
And the multitudes saw them going away, and many recognized Him, and they ran there by land from all the cities, and went before them, and came together to Him, 
and having come forth, Jesus saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion on them, that they were as sheep not having a shepherd, and He began to teach many things. 
And now the hour being advanced, His disciples having come near to Him, say, “The place is desolate, and the hour is now advanced, 
let them away, that having gone away into the surrounding fields and villages, they may buy loaves for themselves, for they do not have what they may eat.” 
And He answering said to them, “You give them to eat,” and they say to Him, “Having gone away, may we buy two hundred denarii worth of loaves, and give to them to eat?” 
And He says to them, “How many loaves do you have? Go and see”; and having known, they say, “Five, and two fishes.” 
And He commanded them to make all recline in companies on the green grass, 
and they sat down in squares, by hundreds, and by fifties. 
And having taken the five loaves and the two fishes, having looked up to the sky, He blessed, and broke the loaves, and was giving them to His disciples, that they may set them before them, and the two fishes He divided to all, 
and they all ate, and were filled, 
and they took up of broken pieces twelve hand-baskets full, and of the fishes, 
and those eating of the loaves were about five thousand men. 
And immediately He constrained His disciples to go into the boat, and to go before Him to the other side, to Bethsaida, until He may let the multitude away, 
and having taken leave of them, He went away to the mountain to pray. 
And evening having come, the boat was in the midst of the sea, and He alone on the land; 
and He saw them harassed in the rowing, for the wind was against them, and about the fourth watch of the night He comes to them walking on the sea, and wished to pass by them. 
And they having seen Him walking on the sea, thought it to be an apparition, and cried out, 
for they all saw Him, and were troubled, and immediately He spoke with them, and says to them, “Take courage! I AM; do not be afraid.” 
And He went up to them into the boat, and the wind stilled, and greatly out of measure they were amazed in themselves, and were wondering, 
for they did not understand concerning the loaves, for their heart has been hard. 
And having passed over, they came on the land of Gennesaret, and drew to the shore, 
and they having come forth out of the boat, immediately having recognized Him, 
they ran around through all that surrounding region, and they began to carry around on the pallets those being ill, where they were hearing that He is, 
and wherever He was going, to villages, or cities, or fields, in the marketplaces they were laying the ailing, and were calling on Him, that they may touch if it were but the fringe of His garment, and as many as were touching Him were saved. 
