Mark.
Chapter 13.
And as He is going forth out of the temple, one of His disciples says to Him, “Teacher, see! What stones! And what buildings!” 
And Jesus answering said to him, “See these great buildings? There may not be left a stone on a stone that may not be thrown down.” 
And as He is sitting at the Mount of Olives, opposite the temple, Peter, and James, and John, and Andrew, were questioning Him by Himself, 
“Tell us when these things will be? And what is the sign when all these may be about to be fulfilled?” 
And Jesus answering them, began to say, “Take heed lest anyone may lead you astray, 
for many will come in My Name, saying, I am He, and many they will lead astray; 
and when you may hear of wars and reports of wars, do not be troubled, for these ought to be, but the end is not yet; 
for nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be earthquakes in various places, and there will be famines and troubles; these are the beginning of travails. 
And take heed to yourselves, for they will deliver you up to Sanhedrins, and to synagogues, you will be beaten, and before governors and kings you will be set for My sake, for a testimony to them; 
and to all the nations it is first necessary that the good news be proclaimed. 
And when they may lead you, delivering up, do not be anxious beforehand what you may speak, nor premeditate, but whatever may be given to you in that hour, that speak, for it is not you who are speaking, but the Holy Spirit. 
And brother will deliver up brother to death, and father child, and children will rise up against parents, and will put them to death, 
and you will be hated by all because of My Name, but he who has endured to the end—he will be saved. 
And when you may see the abomination of the desolation, that was spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it should not (whoever is reading let him understand), then those in Judea, let them flee to the mountains; 
and he on the housetop, do not let him come down into the house, nor come in to take anything out of his house; 
and he who is in the field, do not let him turn to the things behind, to take up his garment. 
And woe to those with child, and to those giving suck, in those days; 
and pray that your flight may not be in winter, 
for those days will be tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the creation that God created, until now, and may not be again; 
and if the LORD did not shorten the days, no flesh had been saved; but because of the chosen, whom He chose to Himself, He shortened the days. 
And then, if any may say to you, Behold, here is the Christ, or, Behold, there, you may not believe; 
for there will rise false Christs and false prophets, and they will give signs and wonders, to seduce, if possible, also the chosen; 
and you, take heed; behold, I have foretold you all things. 
But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give her light, 
and the stars of the sky will be falling, and the powers that are in the heavens will be shaken. 
And then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with much power and glory, 
and then He will send His messengers, and gather together His chosen from the four winds, from the end of the earth to the end of heaven. 
And from the fig tree learn the allegory: when the branch may already become tender, and may put forth the leaves, you know that the summer is near; 
so you, also, when you may see these coming to pass, you know that it is near, at the doors. 
Truly I say to you that this generation may not pass away until all these things may come to pass; 
the heaven and the earth will pass away, but My words will not pass away. 
And concerning that day and the hour no one has known—not even the messengers who are in Heaven, not even the Son—except the Father. 
Take heed, watch and pray, for you have not known when the time is; 
as a man who is gone abroad, having left his house, and given to his servants the authority, and to each one his work, also commanded the doorkeeper that he may watch; 
watch, therefore, for you have not known when the lord of the house comes, at evening, or at midnight, or at rooster-crowing, or at the morning; 
lest, having come suddenly, he may find you sleeping; 
and what I say to you, I say to all, Watch!” 
