Deuteronomy.
Chapter 8.
“All the command which I am commanding you today you observe to do, so that you live, and have multiplied, and gone in, and possessed the land which YHWH has sworn to your fathers; 
and you have remembered all the way which your God YHWH has caused you to go these forty years in the wilderness, in order to humble you to try you, to know that which is in your heart, whether you keep His commands or not. 
And He humbles you, and causes you to hunger, and causes you to eat the manna (which you have not known, even your fathers have not known), in order to cause you to know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by everything proceeding from the mouth of YHWH. 
Your raiment has not worn out from off you, and your foot has not swelled these forty years, 
and you have known with your heart that as a man disciplines his son, your God YHWH is disciplining you, 
and you have kept the commands of your God YHWH, to walk in His ways and to fear Him. 
For your God YHWH is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks of waters, of fountains, and of depths coming out in valley and in mountain; 
a land of wheat, and barley, and vine, and fig, and pomegranate; a land of oil olive and honey; 
a land in which you eat bread without scarcity—you do not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron, and you dig bronze out of its mountains. 
And you have eaten and been satisfied, and have blessed your God YHWH on the good land which he has given to you. 
Take heed to yourself lest you forget your God YHWH so as not to keep His commands, and His judgments, and His statutes which I am commanding you today; 
lest you eat and have been satisfied, and build good houses and have inhabited them, 
and your herd and your flock are multiplied, and silver and gold are multiplied to you, and all that is yours is multiplied, 
and your heart has been high, and you have forgotten your God YHWH who is bringing you out of the land of Egypt, out of a house of servants; 
who is causing you to go in the great and the terrible wilderness with burning serpent, and scorpion, and thirst—where there is no water; who is bringing out waters to you from the flinty rock; 
who is causing you to eat manna in the wilderness, which your fathers have not known, in order to humble you, and in order to try you, to do you good in your latter end; 
and you have said in your heart, My power and the might of my hand have made this wealth for me. 
And you have remembered your God YHWH, for it is He who is giving power to you to make wealth, in order to establish His covenant which He has sworn to your fathers, as at this day. 
And it has been, if you really forget your God YHWH, and have gone after other gods, and served them, and bowed yourself to them, I have testified against you today that you utterly perish. 
As the nations whom YHWH is destroying from your presence, so you perish, because you do not listen to the voice of your God YHWH.” 
