Joshua.
Chapter 18.
And all the congregation of the sons of Israel is assembled at Shiloh, and they cause the Tent of Meeting to dwell there, and the land has been subdued before them. 
And there are seven tribes left among the sons of Israel who have not shared their inheritance, 
and Joshua says to the sons of Israel, “Until when are you remiss to go in to possess the land which He, YHWH, God of your fathers, has given to you? 
Give three men from you for each tribe, and I send them, and they rise and go up and down through the land, and describe it according to their inheritance, and come to me, 
and they have divided it into seven portions—Judah stays by its border on the south, and the house of Joseph stays by their border on the north— 
and you describe the land in seven portions, and have brought it to me here, and I have cast a lot for you here before our God YHWH; 
for there is no portion for the Levites in your midst, for the priesthood of YHWH is their inheritance, and Gad, and Reuben, and half of the tribe of Manasseh received their inheritance beyond the Jordan eastward, which Moses, servant of YHWH, gave to them.” 
And the men rise and go; and Joshua commands those who are going to describe the land, saying, “Go, and walk up and down through the land, and describe it, and return to me, and here I cast a lot for you before YHWH in Shiloh.” 
And the men go, and pass over through the land, and describe it by cities, in seven portions, on a scroll, and they come to Joshua, to the camp at Shiloh. 
And Joshua casts a lot for them in Shiloh before YHWH, and there Joshua apportions the land to the sons of Israel, according to their divisions. 
And a lot goes up for the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, for their families; and the border of their lot goes out between the sons of Judah and the sons of Joseph. 
And the border is for them at the north side from the Jordan, and the border has gone up to the side of Jericho on the north, and gone up through the hill-country westward, and its outgoings have been at the wilderness of Beth-Aven; 
and the border has gone over there to Luz, to the side of Luz (it is Beth-El) southward, and the border has gone down to Atroth-Addar, by the hill that is on the south of the lower Beth-Horon; 
and the border has been marked out, and has gone around to the corner of the sea southward, from the hill which is at the front of Beth-Horon southward, and its outgoings have been to Kirjath-Ba‘al (it is Kirjath-Jearim), a city of the sons of Judah: this is the west quarter. 
And the south quarter is from the end of Kirjath-Jearim, and the border has gone out westward, and has gone out to the fountain of the waters of Nephtoah; 
and the border has come down to the extremity of the hill which is on the front of the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, which is in the Valley of the Rephaim northward, and has gone down the Valley of Hinnom to the side of Jebusi southward, and gone down to En-Rogel, 
and has been marked out on the north, and gone out to En-Shemesh, and gone out to Geliloth, which is opposite the ascent of Adummim, and gone down to the stone of Bohan son of Reuben, 
and passed over to the side in front of the Arabah northward, and gone down to Arabah; 
and the border has passed over to the side of Beth-Hoglah northward, and the outgoings of the border have been to the north bay of the Salt Sea, to the south extremity of the Jordan; this is the south border; 
and the Jordan borders it at the east quarter; this is the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin, by its borders all around, for their families. 
And the cities for the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, for their families, have been Jericho, and Beth-Hoglah, and the Valley of Keziz, 
and Beth-Arabah, Zemaraim, and Beth-El, 
and Avim, and Parah, and Ophrah, 
and Chephar-Haammonai, and Ophni, and Gaba; twelve cities and their villages. 
Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth, 
and Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah, 
and Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah, 
and Zelah, Eleph, and Jebusi (it is Jerusalem), Gibeath, Kirjath; fourteen cities and their villages. This is the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin, for their families. 
