John.
Chapter 20.
And on the first day of the weeks, Mary the Magdalene comes early (there being yet darkness) to the tomb, and she sees the stone having been taken away out of the tomb; 
she runs, therefore, and comes to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus was cherishing, and says to them, “They took away the Lord out of the tomb, and we have not known where they laid Him.” 
Peter, therefore, went forth, and the other disciple, and they were coming to the tomb, 
and the two were running together, and the other disciple ran forward more quickly than Peter, and came first to the tomb, 
and having stooped down, sees the linen clothes lying, yet, indeed, he did not enter. 
Simon Peter, therefore, comes, following him, and he entered into the tomb, and beholds the linen clothes lying there, 
and the napkin that was on His head not lying with the linen clothes, but apart, having been folded up, in one place; 
then, therefore, the other disciple who came first to the tomb entered also, and he saw and believed; 
for they did not yet know the Writing, that it was necessary for Him to rise again out of the dead. 
The disciples therefore went away again to their own friends, 
and Mary was standing near the tomb, weeping outside; as she was weeping, then, she stooped down into the tomb, and beholds two messengers in white, sitting, 
one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had been laid. 
And they say to her, “Woman, why do you weep?” She says to them, “Because they took away my Lord, and I have not known where they laid Him”; 
and having said these things, she turned backward, and sees Jesus standing, and she had not known that it is Jesus. 
Jesus says to her, “Woman, why do you weep? Whom do you seek?” She, supposing that He is the gardener, says to Him, “Lord, if You carried Him away, tell me where You laid Him, and I will take Him away”; 
Jesus says to her, “Mary!” Having turned, she says to Him, “Rabboni!” That is to say, “Teacher.” 
Jesus says to her, “Do not be touching Me, for I have not yet ascended to My Father; and be going on to My brothers, and say to them, I ascend to My Father and your Father, and to My God and your God.” 
Mary the Magdalene comes, reporting to the disciples that she has seen the LORD, and that He said these things to her. 
It being, therefore, evening, on that day, the first day of the weeks, and the doors having been shut where the disciples were assembled through fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and says to them, “Peace to you”; 
and having said this, He showed them His hands and side; the disciples, therefore, rejoiced, having seen the LORD. 
Jesus, therefore, said to them again, “Peace to you; according as the Father has sent Me, I also send you”; 
having said this, He breathed on them, and says to them, “Receive the Holy Spirit; 
if you may forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them; if you may retain of any, they have been retained.” 
And Thomas, one of the Twelve, who is called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came; 
the other disciples, therefore, said to him, “We have seen the Lord!” And he said to them, “If I may not see the mark of the nails in His hands, and may not put my finger into the mark of the nails, and may not put my hand into His side, I will not believe.” 
And after eight days, again His disciples were within, and Thomas was with them; Jesus comes, the doors having been shut, and He stood in the midst and said, “Peace to you!” 
Then He says to Thomas, “Bring your finger here, and see My hands, and bring your hand, and put it into My side, and do not become unbelieving, but believing.” 
And Thomas answered and said to Him, “My Lord and my God!” 
Jesus says to him, “Because you have seen Me, Thomas, you have believed; blessed are those having not seen, and having believed.” 
Many indeed, therefore, other signs Jesus also did before His disciples that are not written in this scroll; 
and these have been written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing, you may have life in His Name. 
