The Book of Genesis.
Chapter 1.
In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, 
and the earth was formless and void, and darkness was on the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was fluttering on the face of the waters, 
and God says, “Let light be”; and light is. 
And God sees that the light is good, and God separates between the light and the darkness, 
and God calls the light “Day,” and the darkness He has called “Night”; and there is an evening, and there is a morning—the first day. 
And God says, “Let an expanse be in the midst of the waters, and let it be separating between waters and waters.” 
And God makes the expanse, and it separates between the waters which are under the expanse, and the waters which are above the expanse: and it is so. 
And God calls the expanse “Heavens”; and there is an evening, and there is a morning—the second day. 
And God says, “Let the waters under the heavens be collected to one place, and let the dry land be seen”: and it is so. 
And God calls the dry land “Earth,” and the collection of the waters He has called “Seas”; and God sees that it is good. 
And God says, “Let the earth yield tender grass, herb sowing seed, fruit-tree (whose seed is in itself) making fruit after its kind, on the earth”: and it is so. 
And the earth brings forth tender grass, herb sowing seed after its kind, and tree making fruit (whose seed is in itself) after its kind; and God sees that it is good; 
and there is an evening, and there is a morning—the third day. 
And God says, “Let luminaries be in the expanse of the heavens, to make a separation between the day and the night, then they have been for signs, and for appointed times, and for days and years, 
and they have been for luminaries in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth”: and it is so. 
And God makes the two great luminaries, the great luminary for the rule of the day, and the small luminary—and the stars—for the rule of the night; 
and God gives them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth, 
and to rule over day and over night, and to make a separation between the light and the darkness; and God sees that it is good; 
and there is an evening, and there is a morning—the fourth day. 
And God says, “Let the waters teem with the teeming living creature, and let the bird fly above the earth on the face of the expanse of the heavens.” 
And God creates the great dragons, and every living creature that is creeping, which the waters have teemed with, after their kind, and every bird with wing, after its kind, and God sees that it is good. 
And God blesses them, saying, “Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let the bird multiply in the earth”: 
and there is an evening, and there is a morning—the fifth day. 
And God says, “Let the earth bring forth the living creature after its kind, livestock and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after its kind”: and it is so. 
And God makes the beast of the earth after its kind, and the livestock after their kind, and every creeping thing of the ground after its kind, and God sees that it is good. 
And God says, “Let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea, and over the bird of the heavens, and over livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that is creeping on the earth.” 
And God creates the man in His image; in the image of God He created him, a male and a female He created them. 
And God blesses them, and God says to them, “Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule over the fish of the sea, and over the bird of the heavens, and over every living thing that is creeping on the earth.” 
And God says, “Behold, I have given to you every herb sowing seed, which is on the face of all the earth, and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree sowing seed, to you it is for food; 
and to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to every creeping thing on the earth, in which is breath of life, every green herb is for food”: and it is so. 
And God sees all that He has done, and behold, it is very good; and there is an evening, and there is a morning—the sixth day. 
