Exodus.
Chapter 27.
“And you have made the altar of shittim wood, five cubits the length, and five cubits the breadth—the altar is square—and three cubits is its height. 
And you have made its horns on its four corners, its horns are of the same, and you have overlaid it with bronze. 
And you have made its pots to remove its ashes, and its shovels, and its bowls, and its forks, and its fire-pans, even all its vessels you make of bronze. 
And you have made a grate of network of bronze for it, and have made four rings of bronze on the net on its four extremities, 
and have put it under the rim of the altar beneath, and the net has been up to the middle of the altar. 
And you have made poles for the altar, poles of shittim wood, and have overlaid them with bronze. 
And the poles have been brought into the rings, and the poles have been on the two sides of the altar in carrying it. 
You make it hollow with boards; as it has been showed to you on the mountain, so do they make it. 
And you have made the court of the Dwelling Place: for the south side southward, hangings for the court of twined linen, the length of the first side is one hundred by the cubit, 
and its twenty pillars and their twenty sockets are of bronze, the pegs of the pillars and their fillets are of silver; 
and so for the north side in length, hangings of one hundred cubits in length, and its twenty pillars and their twenty sockets are of bronze, the pegs of the pillars and their fillets are of silver. 
And for the breadth of the court at the west side are hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten. 
And the breadth of the court at the east side, eastward, is fifty cubits. 
And the hangings at the side are fifteen cubits, their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
And at the second side are hangings of fifteen cubits, their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
And for the gate of the court is a covering of twenty cubits of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen, the work of an embroiderer; their pillars four, their sockets four. 
All the pillars of the court all around are filleted with silver, their pegs are silver, and their sockets bronze. 
The length of the court is one hundred by the cubit, and the breadth fifty by fifty, and the height five cubits, of twined linen, and their sockets are bronze; 
for all the vessels of the Dwelling Place, in all its service, and all its pins, and all the pins of the court, are bronze. 
And you command the sons of Israel, and they bring pure oil of beaten olive to you for the light, to cause the lamp to go up continually. 
In the Tent of Meeting, at the outside of the veil, which is over the Testimony, Aaron—his sons also—arrange it from evening until morning before YHWH. It is a continuous statute for their generations, from the sons of Israel.” 
