2 Chronicles.
Chapter 17.
And his son Jehoshaphat reigns in his stead, and he strengthens himself against Israel, 
and puts a force in all the fortified cities of Judah, and puts garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim that his father Asa had captured. 
And YHWH is with Jehoshaphat, for he has walked in the first ways of his father David, and has not sought for the Ba‘alim, 
for he has sought for the God of his father, and he has walked in His commands, and not according to the work of Israel. 
And YHWH establishes the kingdom in his hand, and all Judah gives a present to Jehoshaphat, and he has riches and honor in abundance, 
and his heart is high in the ways of YHWH, and again he has turned aside the high places and the Asherim out of Judah. 
And in the third year of his reign he has sent for his heads, for Ben-Hail, and for Obadiah, and for Zechariah, and for Nethaneel, and for Michaiah, to teach in cities of Judah; 
and with them the Levites: Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijath, and Tob-Adonijah—the Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests. 
And they teach in Judah, and the Scroll of the Law of YHWH is with them, and they go around into all cities of Judah, and teach among the people. 
And there is a fear of YHWH on all kingdoms of the lands that are around Judah, and they have not fought with Jehoshaphat; 
and some from the Philistines are bringing a present to Jehoshaphat, and silver as tribute; also, the Arabians are bringing to him a flock of seven thousand and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred male goats. 
And Jehoshaphat is going on and becoming very great, and he builds palaces and cities of store in Judah, 
and he has much work in cities of Judah; and men of war, mighty men of valor, are in Jerusalem. 
And these are their numbers, for the house of their fathers—of Judah, heads of thousands: Adnah the head, and with him three hundred thousand mighty men of valor; 
and at his hand is Jehohanan the head, and with him two hundred and eighty thousand; 
and at his hand is Amasiah son of Zichri, who is willingly offering himself to YHWH, and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of valor. 
And of Benjamin, mighty men of valor: Eliada, and with him two hundred thousand armed with bow and shield; 
and at his hand is Jehozabad, and with him one hundred and eighty thousand armed ones of the host. 
These are those serving the king, apart from those whom the king put in the fortress cities in all of Judah. 
