1 Chronicles.
Chapter 24.
And these are their divisions, of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron are Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
And Nadab dies—and Abihu—in the presence of their father, and they had no sons, and Eleazar and Ithamar act as priests. 
And David distributes them—and Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar—according to their office in their service; 
and there are found of the sons of Eleazar more for heads of the mighty men than of the sons of Ithamar; and they distribute them. Of the sons of Eleazar, heads for each house of their fathers—sixteen; and of the sons of Ithamar, for each house of their fathers—eight. 
And they distribute them by lots, with one another, for they have been princes of the holy place and princes of God, from the sons of Eleazar and from the sons of Ithamar. 
And Shemaiah son of Nethaneel the scribe, of the Levites, writes them before the king, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech son of Abiathar, and heads of the fathers for priests and for Levites, one house of a father being taken possession of for Eleazar and one being taken possession of for Ithamar. 
And the first lot goes out for Jehoiarib, for Jedaiah the second, 
for Harim the third, for Seorim the fourth, 
for Malchijah the fifth, for Mijamin the sixth, 
for Hakkoz the seventh, for Abijah the eighth, 
for Jeshuah the ninth, for Shecaniah the tenth, 
for Eliashib the eleventh, for Jakim the twelfth, 
for Huppah the thirteenth, for Jeshebeab the fourteenth, 
for Bilgah the fifteenth, for Immer the sixteenth, 
for Hezir the seventeenth, for Aphses the eighteenth, 
for Pethahiah the nineteenth, for Jehezekel the twentieth, 
for Jachin the twenty-first, for Gamul the twenty-second, 
for Delaiah the twenty-third, for Maaziah the twenty-fourth. 
These are their appointments for their service, to come into the house of YHWH, according to their ordinance by the hand of their father Aaron, as YHWH God of Israel commanded them. 
And of the sons of Levi who are left—of sons of Amram: Shubael; of sons of Shubael: Jehdeiah. 
Of Rehabiah, of sons of Rehabiah: the head Ishshiah. 
Of the Izharite: Shelomoth; of sons of Shelomoth: Jahath. 
And sons of Jeriah: Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth. 
Sons of Uzziel: Michah; of sons of Michah: Shamir. 
Ishshiah is a brother of Michah; of sons of Ishshiah: Zechariah; 
sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; sons of Jaaziah: Beno; 
sons of Merari, of Jaaziah: Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri. 
Of Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons; 
of Kish, sons of Kish: Jerahmeel. 
And sons of Mushi are Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth; these are sons of the Levites, for the house of their fathers, 
and they also cast lots just as their brothers, the sons of Aaron, before David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and heads of the fathers for priests and for Levites; the chief father just as his younger brother. 
