2 Kings.
Chapter 13.
In the twenty-third year of Joash son of Ahaziah, king of Judah, Jehoahaz son of Jehu has reigned over Israel in Samaria, seventeen years, 
and he does evil in the eyes of YHWH, and goes after the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, that he caused Israel to sin—he did not turn aside from it, 
and the anger of YHWH burns against Israel, and He gives them into the hand of Hazael king of Aram, and into the hand of Ben-Hadad son of Hazael, all the days. 
And Jehoahaz appeases the face of YHWH, and YHWH listens to him, for He has seen the oppression of Israel, for the king of Aram has oppressed them— 
and YHWH gives a savior to Israel, and they go out from under the hand of Aram, and the sons of Israel dwell in their tents as before; 
only, they have not turned aside from the sins of the house of Jeroboam that he caused Israel to sin, therein they walked, and also, the Asherah has remained in Samaria— 
for he did not leave to Jehoahaz of the people except fifty horsemen, and ten chariots, and ten thousand footmen, for the king of Aram has destroyed them, and makes them as dust for threshing. 
And the rest of the matters of Jehoahaz, and all that he did, and his might, are they not written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 
And Jehoahaz lies with his fathers, and they bury him in Samaria, and his son Joash reigns in his stead. 
In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash son of Jehoahaz has reigned over Israel in Samaria, sixteen years, 
and he does evil in the eyes of YHWH, he has not turned aside from all the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat that he caused Israel to sin, therein he walked. 
And the rest of the matters of Joash, and all that he did, and his might with which he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 
And Joash lies with his fathers, and Jeroboam has sat on his throne, and Joash is buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel. 
And Elisha has been sick with his sickness in which he dies, and Joash king of Israel comes down to him and weeps on his face, and says, “My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and its horsemen.” 
And Elisha says to him, “Take bow and arrows”: and he takes bow and arrows for himself. 
And he says to the king of Israel, “Place your hand on the bow”; and he places his hand, and Elisha puts his hands on the hands of the king, 
and says, “Open the window eastward”; and he opens, and Elisha says, “Shoot,” and he shoots; and he says, “An arrow of salvation from YHWH, and an arrow of salvation against Aram, and you have struck Aram, in Aphek, until consuming.” 
And he says, “Take the arrows,” and he takes; and he says to the king of Israel, “Strike to the earth”; and he strikes three times, and stays. 
And the man of God is angry against him and says, “By striking five or six times then you had struck Aram until consuming; but now you only strike Aram three times.” 
And Elisha dies, and they bury him, and troops of Moab come into the land at the coming in of the year, 
and it comes to pass, they are burying a man, and behold, they have seen the troop, and cast the man into the grave of Elisha, and the man goes and comes against the bones of Elisha, and lives, and rises on his feet. 
And Hazael king of Aram has oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz, 
and YHWH favors them, and pities them, and turns to them for the sake of His covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and has not been willing to destroy them, nor to cast them from His presence as yet. 
And Hazael king of Aram dies, and his son Ben-Hadad reigns in his stead, 
and Jehoash son of Jehoahaz turns and takes the cities out of the hand of Ben-Hadad son of Hazael that he had taken out of the hand of his father Jehoahaz in war; Joash has struck him three times, and he brings back the cities of Israel. 
