Luke.
Chapter 16.
And He also said to His disciples, “A certain man was rich, who had a steward, and he was accused to him as scattering his goods; 
and having called him, he said to him, What is this I hear about you? Render the account of your stewardship, for you may not be steward any longer. 
And the steward said in himself, What will I do, because my lord takes away the stewardship from me? I am not able to dig, I am ashamed to beg— 
I have known what I will do, that, when I may be removed from the stewardship, they may receive me to their houses. 
And having called near each one of his lord’s debtors, he said to the first, How much do you owe to my lord? 
And he said, One hundred baths of oil; and he said to him, Take your bill, and having sat down write fifty. 
Afterward to another he said, And you, how much do you owe? And he said, One hundred cors of wheat; and he says to him, Take your bill, and write eighty. 
And the lord commended the unrighteous steward that he did prudently, because the sons of this age are more prudent than the sons of the light in respect to their generation. 
And I say to you, make to yourselves friends out of the wealth of unrighteousness, that when you may fail, they may receive you into the continuous dwelling places. 
He who is faithful in the least, is also faithful in much; and he who in the least is unrighteous, is also unrighteous in much; 
if, then, in the unrighteous wealth you did not become faithful—who will entrust to you the true? 
And if in the other’s you did not become faithful—who will give to you your own? 
No servant is able to serve two lords, for either he will hate the one, and he will love the other; or one he will hold to, and of the other he will be heedless; you are not able to serve God and wealth.” 
And also the Pharisees, being lovers of money, were hearing all these things, and were deriding Him, 
and He said to them, “You are those declaring yourselves righteous before men, but God knows your hearts; because that which is high among men is abomination before God; 
the Law and the Prophets are until John; since then the good news of the Kingdom of God is proclaimed, and everyone presses into it; 
and it is easier for the heaven and the earth to pass away, than one tittle to fall of the Law. 
Everyone who is sending his wife away, and marrying another, commits adultery; and everyone who is marrying her sent away from a husband commits adultery. 
And—a certain man was rich, and was clothed in purple and fine linen, making merry sumptuously every day, 
and there was a certain poor man, by name Lazarus, who was laid at his porch, full of sores, 
and desiring to be filled from the crumbs that are falling from the table of the rich man; indeed, also the dogs, coming, were licking his sores. 
And it came to pass, that the poor man died, and that he was carried away by the messengers into the bosom of Abraham—and the rich man also died, and was buried; 
and having lifted up his eyes in Hades, being in torments, he sees Abraham far off, and Lazarus in his bosom, 
and having cried, he said, Father Abraham, deal kindly with me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and may cool my tongue, because I am distressed in this flame. 
And Abraham said, Child, remember that you received your good things in your life, and Lazarus in like manner the evil things, and now he is comforted, and you are distressed; 
and besides all these things, between us and you a great chasm is fixed, so that they who are willing to go over from here to you are not able, nor do they pass through from there to us. 
And he said, I ask, then, father, that you may send him to the house of my father, 
for I have five brothers, so that he may thoroughly testify to them, that they also may not come to this place of torment. 
Abraham says to him, They have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them; 
and he said, No, father Abraham, but if anyone from the dead may go to them, they will convert. 
And he said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded if one may rise out of the dead.” 
