Exodus.
Chapter 22.
When a man steals an ox or sheep, and has slaughtered it or sold it, he repays with five of the herd for the ox, and four of the flock for the sheep. 
If in the breaking through, the thief is found, and he has been struck and has died, there is no blood for him; 
if the sun has risen on him, blood is for him, he certainly repays; if he has nothing, then he has been sold for his theft; 
if the theft is certainly found alive in his hand, whether ox, or donkey, or sheep—he repays double. 
When a man depastures a field or vineyard, and has sent out his beast, and it has pastured in the field of another, he repays with the best of his field, and the best of his vineyard. 
When fire goes forth and has found thorns, and a stack, or the standing grain, or the field has been consumed, he who causes the burning certainly repays. 
When a man gives silver or vessels to his neighbor to keep, and it has been stolen out of the man’s house; if the thief is found, he repays double. 
If the thief is not found, then the master of the house has been brought near to God to see whether he has not put forth his hand against the work of his neighbor. 
For every matter of transgression, for ox, for donkey, for sheep, for raiment, for any lost thing of which it is said that it is his, the matter of them both comes to God; he whom God condemns repays double to his neighbor. 
When a man gives to his neighbor a donkey, or ox, or sheep, or any beast to keep, and it has died, or has been hurt, or taken captive, with none seeing— 
an oath of YHWH is between them both, that he has not put forth his hand against the work of his neighbor, and its owner has accepted, and he does not repay; 
but if it is certainly stolen from him, he repays to its owner; 
if it is certainly torn, he brings it in as a witness; he does not repay the torn thing. 
And when a man asks for anything from his neighbor, and it has been hurt or has died—its owner not being with it—he certainly repays; 
if its owner is with it, he does not repay—if it is a hired thing, it has come for its hire. 
And when a man entices a virgin who is not betrothed, and has lain with her, he certainly endows her to himself for a wife; 
if her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he weighs out money according to the dowry of virgins. 
You do not keep a witch alive. 
Whoever lies with a beast is certainly put to death. 
He who is sacrificing to a god, except to YHWH alone, is devoted. 
And you do not oppress a sojourner, nor crush him, for you have been sojourners in the land of Egypt. 
You do not afflict any widow or orphan; 
if you really afflict him, surely if he cries to Me at all, I certainly hear his cry; 
and My anger has burned, and I have slain you by the sword, and your wives have been widows, and your sons orphans. 
If you lend money to My poor people who are with you, you are not as a usurer to him; you do not lay usury on him; 
if you take the garment of your neighbor in pledge at all, you return it to him during the going in of the sun: 
for it is his only covering, it is his garment for his skin; wherein does he lie down? And it has come to pass, when he cries to Me, that I have heard, for I am gracious. 
You do not revile God, and you do not curse a prince among your people. 
You do not delay your fullness and your liquids; you give the firstborn of your sons to Me; 
so you do to your ox and to your sheep; it is with its mother for seven days, on the eighth day you give it to Me. 
And you are holy men to Me, and you do not eat flesh torn in the field, you cast it to a dog. 
