Exodus.
Chapter 40.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“On the first day of the month, in the first month, you raise up the Dwelling Place of the Tent of Meeting, 
and have set the Ark of the Testimony in there, and have covered over the Ark with the veil, 
and have brought in the table, and set its arrangement in order, and have brought in the lampstand, and caused its lamps to go up. 
And you have put the golden altar for incense before the Ark of the Testimony, and have put the covering of the opening to the Dwelling Place, 
and have put the altar of the burnt-offering before the opening of the Dwelling Place of the Tent of Meeting, 
and have put the laver between the Tent of Meeting and the altar, and have put water in there. 
And you have set the court all around, and have placed the covering of the gate of the court, 
and have taken the anointing oil, and anointed the Dwelling Place, and all that is in it, and hallowed it, and all its vessels, and it has been holy; 
and you have anointed the altar of the burnt-offering, and all its vessels, and sanctified the altar, and the altar has been most holy; 
and you have anointed the laver and its base, and sanctified it. 
And you have brought Aaron and his sons near to the opening of the Tent of Meeting, and have bathed them with water; 
and you have clothed Aaron with the holy garments, and anointed him, and sanctified him, and he has acted as priest to Me. 
And you bring his sons near, and have clothed them with coats, 
and anointed them as you have anointed their father, and they have acted as priests to Me, and their anointing has been to them for a continuous priesthood throughout their generations.” 
And Moses does according to all that YHWH has commanded him; so he has done. 
And it comes to pass, in the first month, in the second year, on the first of the month, the Dwelling Place has been raised up; 
and Moses raises up the Dwelling Place, and sets its sockets, and places its boards, and places its bars, and raises its pillars, 
and spreads the tent over the Dwelling Place, and puts the covering of the tent on it above, as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
And he takes and puts the Testimony into the Ark, and sets the poles on the Ark, and puts the propitiatory covering on the Ark above; 
and brings the Ark into the Dwelling Place, and places the veil of the covering, and covers over the Ark of the Testimony, as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
And he puts the table in the Tent of Meeting, on the side of the Dwelling Place northward, at the outside of the veil, 
and sets in order the arrangement of bread on it, before YHWH, as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
And he puts the lampstand in the Tent of Meeting, opposite the table, on the side of the Dwelling Place southward, 
and causes the lamps to go up before YHWH, as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
And he sets the golden altar in the Tent of Meeting, before the veil, 
and makes incense on it—spice-incense—as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
And he sets the covering at the opening of the Dwelling Place, 
and he has set the altar of the burnt-offering at the opening of the Dwelling Place of the Tent of Meeting, and causes the burnt-offering to go up on it, and the present, as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
And he puts the laver between the Tent of Meeting and the altar, and puts water in there for washing, 
and Moses and Aaron and his sons have washed their hands and their feet at the same; 
in their going into the Tent of Meeting, and in their drawing near to the altar, they wash, as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
And he raises up the court all around the Dwelling Place, and around the altar, and places the covering of the gate of the court; and Moses completes the work. 
And the cloud covers the Tent of Meeting, and the glory of YHWH has filled the Dwelling Place; 
and Moses has not been able to go into the Tent of Meeting, for the cloud has dwelt on it, and the glory of YHWH has filled the Dwelling Place. 
And in the going up of the cloud from off the Dwelling Place the sons of Israel journey in all their journeys; 
and if the cloud does not go up then they do not journey, until the day of its going up. 
For the cloud of YHWH is on the Dwelling Place by day, and fire is in it by night, before the eyes of all the house of Israel in all their journeys.
