Exodus.
Chapter 37.
And Bezaleel makes the Ark of shittim wood; two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height; 
and he overlays it with pure gold inside and outside, and makes a wreath of gold for it all around; 
and he casts four rings of gold for it on its four feet, even two rings on its one side, and two rings on its second side; 
and he makes poles of shittim wood, and overlays them with gold, 
and he brings in the poles into the rings, by the sides of the Ark, to carry the Ark. 
And he makes a propitiatory covering of pure gold, two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth; 
and he makes two cherubim of gold; he has made them of beaten work at the two ends of the propitiatory covering— 
one cherub at the end on this side and one cherub at the end on that side; he has made the cherubim from above the propitiatory covering, at its two ends; 
and the cherubim are spreading out wings on high, covering over the propitiatory covering with their wings, and their faces are toward one another; the faces of the cherubim have been toward the propitiatory covering. 
And he makes the table of shittim wood; two cubits its length, and a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height, 
and overlays it with pure gold, and makes a wreath of gold for it all around. 
And he makes a border for it of a handbreadth around, and makes a wreath of gold around for its border; 
and he casts four rings of gold for it, and puts the rings on the four corners which are at its four feet; 
the rings have been close by the border, places for poles to carry the table. 
And he makes the poles of shittim wood, and overlays them with gold, to carry the table; 
and he makes the vessels which are on the table, its dishes, and its bowls, and its cups, and the cups by which they pour out, of pure gold. 
And he makes the lampstand of pure gold; he has made the lampstand of beaten work, its base, and its branch, its calyxes, its knobs, and its flowers, have been of the same; 
and six branches are coming out of its sides, three branches of the lampstand out of its one side, and three branches of the lampstand out of its second side; 
three calyxes, made like almonds, in one branch, a knob and a flower; and three calyxes, made like almonds, in another branch, a knob and a flower; so for the six branches which are coming out of the lampstand. 
And in the lampstand are four calyxes, made like almonds, its knobs, and its flowers, 
and a knob under the two branches of the same, and a knob under the two branches of the same, and a knob under the two branches of the same, are for the six branches which are coming out of it; 
their knobs and their branches have been of the same; all of it one beaten work of pure gold. 
And he makes its seven lamps, and its snuffers, and its snuff-dishes, of pure gold; 
he has made it of a talent of pure gold, and with all its vessels. 
And he makes the incense-altar of shittim wood; a cubit its length, and a cubit its breadth (square), and two cubits its height; its horns have been of the same; 
and he overlays it with pure gold, around its top and its sides, and its horns; and he makes a wreath of gold for it all around; 
and he has made two rings of gold for it under its wreath, at its two corners, at its two sides, for places for poles to carry it with them. 
And he makes the poles of shittim wood, and overlays them with gold; 
and he makes the holy anointing oil, and the pure spice-incense—work of a compounder. 
