2 Chronicles.
Chapter 31.
And at the completion of all this, all those of Israel who are found present have gone out to the cities of Judah, and break the standing-pillars, and cut down the Asherim, and break down the high places and the altars, out of all Judah and Benjamin, and in Ephraim and Manasseh, even to completion, and all the sons of Israel return, each to his possession, to their cities. 
And Hezekiah appoints the divisions of the priests and of the Levites, by their divisions, each according to his service, of the priests and of the Levites, for burnt-offering and for peace-offerings, to minister and to give thanks, and to give praise in the gates of the camps of YHWH. 
And a portion of the king, from his substance, is for burnt-offerings, for burnt-offerings of the morning and of the evening, and the burnt-offerings of Sabbaths, and of new moons, and of appointed times, as it is written in the Law of YHWH. 
And he commands to the people, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, to give the portion of the priests and of the Levites, so that they are strengthened in the Law of YHWH; 
and at the spreading forth of the thing, the sons of Israel have multiplied the first-fruit of grain, new wine, and oil, and honey, and of all the increase of the field, and they have brought in the tithe of the whole in abundance. 
And the sons of Israel and Judah, those dwelling in cities of Judah, have also brought in a tithe of herd and flock, and a tithe of the holy things that are sanctified to their God YHWH, and they set them in heaps of heaps. 
In the third month they have begun to lay the foundation of the heaps, and in the seventh month they have finished. 
And Hezekiah and the heads come in and see the heaps, and bless YHWH and His people Israel, 
and Hezekiah inquires at the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps, 
and Azariah the head priest, of the house of Zadok, speaks to him and says, “From the beginning of the bringing of the raised-offering to the house of YHWH, there is enough to eat, and to be satisfied, and to leave abundantly, for YHWH has blessed His people, and that left is this store.” 
And Hezekiah commands to prepare chambers in the house of YHWH, and they prepare, 
and they bring in the raised-offering, and the tithe, and the holy things faithfully; and over them is a leader, Conaniah the Levite, and his brother Shimei is second; 
and Jehiel, and Azaziah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth, and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah, are inspectors under the hand of Conaniah and his brother Shimei, by the appointment of Hezekiah the king, and Azariah leader of the house of God. 
And Kore son of Imnah the Levite, the gatekeeper at the east, is over the willing-offerings of God, to give the raised-offering of YHWH, and the most holy things. 
And by his hand are Eden, and Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shechaniah, in cities of the priests, faithfully to give to their brothers in divisions, as the great so the small, 
apart from their genealogy, to males from a son of three years and upward, to everyone who has gone into the house of YHWH, by the matter of a day in its day, for their service in their charges, according to their divisions; 
and the genealogy of the priests by the house of their fathers, and of the Levites, from a son of twenty years and upward, in their charges, in their divisions; 
and to the genealogy among all their infants, their wives, and their sons, and their daughters to all the congregation, for in their faithfulness they sanctify themselves in holiness. 
And for sons of Aaron, the priests, in the fields of the outskirt of their cities, in each and every city, are men who have been defined by name, to give portions to every male among the priests, and to everyone who reckoned himself by genealogy among the Levites. 
And Hezekiah does thus in all Judah, and does that which is good, and that which is right, and that which is true, before his God YHWH; 
and in every work that he has begun for the service of the house of God, and for the Law, and for the command, to seek for his God with all his heart, he has worked and prospered. 
