Mark.
Chapter 16.
And the Sabbath having past, Mary the Magdalene, and Mary of James, and Salome, bought spices, that having come, they may anoint Him, 
and early in the morning of the first day of the weeks, they come to the tomb, at the rising of the sun, 
and they said among themselves, “Who will roll away the stone out of the door of the tomb for us?” 
And having looked, they see that the stone has been rolled away—for it was very great, 
and having entered into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right hand, clothed in a long white robe, and they were amazed. 
And he says to them, “Do not be amazed, you seek Jesus the Nazarene, the crucified One: He rose—He is not here; behold the place where they laid Him! 
And go, say to His disciples and Peter that He goes before you to Galilee; there you will see Him, as He said to you.” 
And having come forth quickly, they fled from the tomb, and trembling and amazement had seized them, and they said to no one anything, for they were afraid.  
And He, having risen in the morning of the first of the week, appeared first to Mary the Magdalene, out of whom He had cast seven demons; 
she having gone, told those who had been with Him, mourning and weeping; 
and they, having heard that He is alive, and was seen by her, did not believe. 
And after these things, to two of them, as they are going into a field, walking, He appeared in another form, 
and they having gone, told it to the rest; not even them did they believe. 
Afterward, as they are reclining, He appeared to the Eleven, and reproached their unbelief and stiffness of heart, because they did not believe those having seen Him being raised; 
and He said to them, “Having gone into all the world, proclaim the good news to all the creation; 
he who has believed and has been immersed will be saved; and he who has not believed will be condemned. 
And signs will accompany those believing these things: they will cast out demons in My Name; they will speak with new tongues; 
they will take up serpents; and if they may drink any deadly thing, it will not hurt them; they will lay hands on the ailing, and they will be well.” 
The LORD, then, indeed, after speaking to them, was received up to Heaven, and sat on the right hand of God; 
and they, having gone forth, preached everywhere, the LORD working with them, and confirming the word, through the signs following. Amen.
