1 Corinthians.
Chapter 3.
And I, brothers, was not able to speak to you as to spiritual, but as to fleshly—as to babies in Christ; 
with milk I fed you, and not with meat, for you were not yet able, but not even yet are you now able, 
for yet you are fleshly, for where there is among you envying, and strife, and divisions, are you not fleshly, and walk in the manner of men? 
For when one may say, “I, indeed, am of Paul,” and another, “I—of Apollos,” are you not fleshly? 
Who, then, is Paul, and who Apollos, but servants through whom you believed, and to each as the LORD gave? 
I planted, Apollos watered, but God was giving growth; 
so that neither is he who is planting anything, nor he who is watering, but He who is giving growth—God; 
and he who is planting and he who is watering are one, and each will receive his own reward according to his own labor, 
for we are fellow-workmen of God; you are God’s tillage, God’s building. 
According to the grace of God that was given to me, as a wise master-builder, I have laid a foundation, and another builds on it, 
for no one is able to lay another foundation except that which is laid, which is Jesus the Christ; 
and if anyone builds on this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw— 
the work will become visible of each, for the day will declare it, because it is revealed in fire, and the work of each, what kind it is, the fire will prove; 
if the work of anyone remains that he built on it, he will receive a wage; 
if the work of any is burned up, he will suffer loss, but himself will be saved, but so as through fire. 
Have you not known that you are a temple of God, and the Spirit of God dwells in you? 
If anyone ruins the temple of God, God will ruin him; for the temple of God is holy, which you are. 
Let no one deceive himself; if anyone seems to be wise among you in this age—let him become a fool, that he may become wise, 
for the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God, for it has been written: “Who is taking the wise in their craftiness”; 
and again, “The LORD knows the reasonings of the wise, that they are vain.” 
So then, let no one glory in men, for all things are yours, 
whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things about to be—all are yours, 
and you are Christ’s, and Christ is God’s. 
