1 Corinthians.
Chapter 6.
Dare anyone of you, having a matter with the other, go to be judged before the unrighteous, and not before the holy ones? 
Have you not known that the holy ones will judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you unworthy of the smaller judgments? 
Have you not known that we will judge messengers? Why not then the things of life? 
Of the things of life, indeed, then, if you may have judgment, those despised in the Assembly—these you cause to sit; 
I speak to your shame: so there is not among you one wise man, not even one, who will be able to discern in the midst of his brothers! 
But brother with brother goes to be judged, and this before unbelievers! 
Already, indeed, then, there is altogether a fault among you, that you have judgments with one another; why do you not rather suffer injustice? Why not be defrauded? 
But you do injustice, and you defraud, and these—brothers! 
Have you not known that the unrighteous will not inherit the Kingdom of God? Do not be led astray; neither whoremongers, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor sodomites, 
nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, will inherit the Kingdom of God. 
And certain of you were these! But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were declared righteous, in the Name of the Lord Jesus, and in the Spirit of our God. 
All things are lawful to me, but all things are not profitable; all things are lawful to me, but I will not be under authority by any; 
the meats are for the belly, and the belly for the meats. And God will make useless both this and these; and the body is not for whoredom, but for the LORD, and the LORD for the body; 
and God raised both the LORD, and will raise us up through His power. 
Have you not known that your bodies are members of Christ? Having taken, then, the members of the Christ, will I make them members of a prostitute? Let it not be! 
Have you not known that he who is joined to the prostitute is one body? For it says, “The two will be into one flesh.” 
And he who is joined to the LORD is one spirit; 
flee the whoredom; every sin—whatever a man may commit—is outside the body, and he who is committing whoredom sins against his own body. 
Have you not known that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit in you, which you have from God? And you are not your own, 
for you were bought with a price; glorify, then, God in your body and in your spirit, which are God’s. 
