1 Samuel.
Chapter 12.
And Samuel says to all Israel, “Behold, I have listened to your voice, to all that you said to me, and I cause a king to reign over you, 
and now, behold, the king is habitually walking before you, and I have become aged and gray-headed, and my sons, behold, they are with you, and I have habitually walked before you from my youth until this day. 
Behold, here I am; testify against me before YHWH, and before His anointed; whose ox have I taken, and whose donkey have I taken, and whom have I oppressed; whom have I bruised, and of whose hand have I taken a ransom, and hide my eyes with it? And I restore it to you.” 
And they say, “You have not oppressed us, nor have you crushed us, nor have you taken anything from the hand of anyone.” 
And he says to them, “YHWH is a witness against you, and His anointed is a witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand”; and they say, “A witness.” 
And Samuel says to the people, “YHWH is He who made Moses and Aaron, and who brought up your fathers out of the land of Egypt! 
And now, station yourselves, and I judge you before YHWH, with all the righteous acts of YHWH, which He did with you, and with your fathers. 
When Jacob has come to Egypt, and your fathers cry to YHWH, then YHWH sends Moses and Aaron, and they bring out your fathers from Egypt, and cause them to dwell in this place, 
and they forget their God YHWH, and He sells them into the hand of Sisera, head of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fight against them, 
and they cry to YHWH, and say, We have sinned, because we have forsaken YHWH, and serve the Ba‘alim, and Ashtaroth, and now, deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we serve You. 
And YHWH sends Jerubba‘al, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivers you out of the hand of your surrounding enemies, and you dwell confidently. 
And you see that Nahash king of the sons of Ammon has come against you, and you say to me, No, but a king reigns over us; and your God YHWH is your king! 
And now, behold the king whom you have chosen—whom you have asked for! And behold, YHWH has placed a king over you. 
If you fear YHWH, and have served Him, and listened to His voice, then you do not provoke the mouth of YHWH, and you have been—both you and the king who has reigned over you—after your God YHWH. 
And if you do not listen to the voice of YHWH—then you have provoked the mouth of YHWH, and the hand of YHWH has been against you, and against your fathers. 
Also now, station yourselves and see this great thing which YHWH is doing before your eyes; 
is it not wheat-harvest today? I call to YHWH, and He gives voices and rain; and know and see that your evil is great which you have done in the eyes of YHWH, to ask for a king for yourselves.” 
And Samuel calls to YHWH, and YHWH gives voices and rain on that day, and all the people greatly fear YHWH and Samuel; 
and all the people say to Samuel, “Pray for your servants to your God YHWH, and we do not die, for we have added evil to all our sins to ask for a king for ourselves.” 
And Samuel says to the people, “Do not fear; you have done all this evil; only, do not turn aside from after YHWH—and you have served YHWH with all your heart, 
and you do not turn aside after the vain things which do not profit nor deliver, for they are vain, 
for YHWH does not leave His people, on account of His great Name; for YHWH has been pleased to make you for a people to Him. 
I, also, far be it from me to sin against YHWH, by ceasing to pray for you, and I have directed you in the good and upright way; 
only, fear YHWH, and you have served Him in truth with all your heart, for see that which He has made great with you; 
and if you really do evil, both you and your king are consumed.” 
