Exodus.
Chapter 36.
And Bezaleel, and Aholiab, and every wise-hearted man, in whom YHWH has given wisdom and understanding to know to do every work of the service of the holy place, have done according to all that YHWH commanded. 
And Moses calls to Bezaleel, and to Aholiab, and to every wise-hearted man in whose heart YHWH has given wisdom, everyone whom his heart lifted up, to come near to the work to do it. 
And they take from before Moses all the raised-offering which the sons of Israel have brought in for the work of the service of the holy place to do it; and still they have brought to him a willing-offering morning by morning. 
And all the wise men, who are doing all the work of the holy place, each come from his work which they are doing, 
and speak to Moses, saying, “The people are multiplying to bring in more than sufficient for the service of the work which YHWH commanded us to do.” 
And Moses commands, and they cause a voice to pass over through the camp, saying, “Do not let man or woman make anymore work for the raised-offering of the holy place”; and the people are restrained from bringing, 
and the work has been sufficient for them, for all the work, to do it, and to leave. 
And all the wise-hearted ones among the doers of the work make the Dwelling Place; he has made them with ten curtains of twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, with cherubim, the work of a designer. 
The length of one curtain is twenty-eight by the cubit, and the breadth of one curtain is four by the cubit; one measure is for all the curtains. 
And he joins the five curtains to one another, and the other five curtains he has joined to one another; 
and he makes loops of blue on the edge of one curtain, at the end, in the joining; so he has made in the edge of the outmost curtain, in the joining of the second; 
he has made fifty loops in the first curtain, and he has made fifty loops in the end of the curtain which is in the joining of the second; the loops are taking hold on one another. 
And he makes fifty hooks of gold, and joins the curtains to one another by the hooks, and the Dwelling Place is one. 
And he makes curtains of goats’ hair for a tent over the Dwelling Place; eleven curtains he has made them; 
the length of one curtain is thirty by the cubit, and the breadth of one curtain is four cubits; one measure is for the eleven curtains; 
and he joins the five curtains apart, and the six curtains apart. 
And he makes fifty loops on the outer edge of the curtain, in the joining; and he has made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain which is joining the second; 
and he makes fifty hooks of bronze to join the tent—to be one; 
and he makes a covering for the tent of rams’ skins made red, and a covering of tachashim skins above. 
And he makes the boards for the Dwelling Place of shittim wood, standing up; 
ten cubits is the length of the one board, and a cubit and a half the breadth of the one board; 
two handles are to one board, joined to one another; so he has made for all the boards of the Dwelling Place. 
And he makes the boards for the Dwelling Place; twenty boards for the south side southward; 
and he has made forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards: two sockets under one board for its two handles, and two sockets under the other board for its two handles. 
And for the second side of the Dwelling Place, for the north side, he has made twenty boards, 
and their forty sockets of silver: two sockets under one board, and two sockets under the other board; 
and for the sides of the Dwelling Place westward, he has made six boards; 
and he has made two boards for the corners of the Dwelling Place, in the two sides; 
and they have been twins below, and together they are twins at its head, at one ring; so he has done to both of them at the two corners; 
and there have been eight boards; and their sockets of silver are sixteen sockets, two sockets under one board. 
And he makes bars of shittim wood: five for the boards of the first side of the Dwelling Place, 
and five bars for the boards of the second side of the Dwelling Place, and five bars for the boards of the Dwelling Place, for the sides westward; 
and he makes the middle bar to enter into the midst of the boards from end to end; 
and he has overlaid the boards with gold, and he has made their rings of gold, places for bars, and he overlays the bars with gold. 
And he makes the veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen; he has made it with cherubim—the work of a designer; 
and he makes four pillars of shittim wood for it, and overlays them with gold; their pegs are of gold; and he casts four sockets of silver for them. 
And he makes a covering for the opening of the tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen, the work of an embroiderer, 
also its five pillars, and their pegs; and he overlaid their tops and their fillets with gold, and their five sockets are bronze. 
