Exodus.
Chapter 25.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to the sons of Israel, and they take a raised-offering for Me; you take My raised-offering from every man whose heart impels him. 
And this is the raised-offering which you take from them: gold, and silver, and bronze, 
and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and linen, and goats’ hair, 
and rams’ skins made red, and tachashim skins, and shittim wood, 
oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil, and for the incense of the spices, 
shoham stones, and stones for setting for an ephod, and for a breastplate. 
And they have made a sanctuary for Me, and I have dwelt in their midst; 
according to all that which I am showing you, the pattern of the Dwelling Place, and the pattern of all its vessels, even so you make it. 
And they have made an ark of shittim wood; two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height; 
and you have overlaid it with pure gold, you overlay it inside and outside, and you have made a ring of gold on it all around. 
And you have cast four rings of gold for it, and have put them on its four feet, even two rings on its one side, and two rings on its second side; 
and you have made poles of shittim wood, and have overlaid them with gold, 
and have brought the poles into the rings on the sides of the Ark, to carry the Ark by them; 
the poles are in the rings of the Ark, they are not turned aside from it; 
and you have put the Testimony which I give to you into the Ark. 
And you have made a propitiatory covering of pure gold, two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth; 
and you have made two cherubim of gold; you make them beaten work at the two ends of the propitiatory covering; 
and make one cherub at the end on this side and one cherub at the end on that side; at the propitiatory covering you make the cherubim on its two ends. 
And the cherubim have been spreading out wings on high, covering over the propitiatory covering with their wings, and their faces are toward one another—the faces of the cherubim are toward the propitiatory covering. 
And you have put the propitiatory covering on the Ark above, and you put the Testimony which I give to you into the Ark; 
and I have met with you there, and have spoken with you from off the propitiatory covering (from between the two cherubim, which are on the Ark of the Testimony) all that which I command you concerning the sons of Israel. 
And you have made a table of shittim wood, two cubits its length, and a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height, 
and have overlaid it with pure gold, and have made a crown of gold for it all around, 
and have made a border of a handbreadth for it all around, and have made a crown of gold for its border all around. 
And you have made four rings of gold for it, and have put the rings on the four corners, which are at its four feet; 
close by the border are the rings for places for poles to carry the table; 
and you have made the poles of shittim wood, and have overlaid them with gold, and the table has been carried with them; 
and you have made its dishes, and its bowls, and its covers, and its cups, with which they pour out; you make them of pure gold; 
and you have put Bread of the Presentation on the table before Me continually. 
And you have made a lampstand of pure gold; the lampstand is made of beaten work; its base, and its branch, its calyxes, its knobs, and its flowers are of the same; 
and six branches are coming out of its sides, three branches of the lampstand out of the first side, and three branches of the lampstand out of the second side; 
three calyxes made like almonds in one branch, a knob and a flower, and three calyxes made like almonds in one branch, a knob and a flower—so for the six branches which are coming out from the lampstand. 
And in the lampstand are four calyxes made like almonds, its knobs and its flowers; 
and a knob under two branches of the same, and a knob under two branches of the same, and a knob under two branches of the same, for the six branches which are coming out of the lampstand; 
their knobs and their branches are of the same, all of it one beaten work of pure gold; 
and you have made its seven lamps, and one has caused its lamps to go up, and it has given light over and beyond its front. 
And its snuffers and its snuff dishes are of pure gold; 
he makes it of a talent of pure gold, with all these vessels. 
Now see and make them by their pattern which you are shown on the mountain.” 
