Luke.
Chapter 8.
And it came to pass thereafter, that He was going through every city and village, preaching and proclaiming good news of the Kingdom of God, and the Twelve are with Him, 
and certain women who were healed of evil spirits and sicknesses, Mary who is called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone forth, 
and Joanna wife of Chuza, steward of Herod, and Susanna, and many others, who were ministering to Him from their substance. 
And a great multitude having gathered, and those who from city and city were coming to Him, He spoke by an allegory: 
“The sower went forth to sow his seed, and in his sowing some indeed fell beside the way, and it was trodden down, and the birds of the sky devoured it. 
And other fell on the rock, and having sprung up, it withered, through having no moisture. 
And other fell amidst the thorns, and the thorns having sprung up with it, choked it. 
And other fell on the good ground, and having sprung up, it made fruit a hundredfold.” Saying these things, He was calling, “He having ears to hear—let him hear.” 
And His disciples were questioning Him, saying, “What may this allegory be?” 
And He said, “To you it has been given to know the secrets of the Kingdom of God, but to the rest in allegories, that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand. 
And this is the allegory: the seed is the word of God, 
and those beside the way are those hearing, then comes the Devil, and takes up the word from their heart, lest having believed, they may be saved. 
And those on the rock: they who, when they may hear, receive the word with joy, and these have no root, who for a time believe, and in time of temptation fall away. 
And that which fell to the thorns: these are they who have heard, and going forth, through anxieties, and riches, and pleasures of life, are choked, and do not bear to completion. 
And that in the good ground: these are they who in an upright and good heart, having heard the word, retain it, and bear fruit in continuance. 
And no one having lighted a lamp covers it with a vessel, or puts it under a bed; but he puts it on a lampstand, that those coming in may see the light, 
for nothing is secret, that will not become visible, nor hid, that will not be known and become visible. 
See, therefore, how you hear, for whoever may have, there will be given to him, and whoever may not have, also what he seems to have will be taken from him.” 
And there came to Him His mother and brothers, and they were not able to get to Him because of the multitude, 
and it was told Him, saying, “Your mother and Your brothers stand outside, wishing to see You”; 
and He answering said to them, “My mother and My brothers! They are those who are hearing the word of God, and doing.” 
And it came to pass, on one of the days, that He Himself went into a boat with His disciples, and He said to them, “We may go over to the other side of the lake”; and they set forth, 
and as they are sailing He fell deeply asleep, and there came down a storm of wind to the lake, and they were filling, and were in peril. 
And having come near, they awoke Him, saying, “Master, Master, we perish!” And He, having arisen, rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there came a calm, 
and He said to them, “Where is your faith?” And they being afraid wondered, saying to one another, “Who, then, is this, that He even commands the winds and the water, and they obey Him?” 
And they sailed down to the region of the Gadarenes that is opposite Galilee, 
and He having gone forth on the land, there met Him a certain man, out of the city, who had demons for a long time, and was not clothed with a garment, and was not abiding in a house, but in the tombs, 
and having seen Jesus, and having cried out, he fell before Him, and with a loud voice, said, “What regards me and You, Jesus, Son of God Most High? I implore You, may You not afflict me!” 
For He commanded the unclean spirit to come forth from the man, for many times it had caught him, and he was being bound with chains and shackles—guarded, and breaking apart the bonds he was driven by the demons into the deserts. 
And Jesus questioned him, saying, “What is your name?” And he said, “Legion,” because many demons were entered into him, 
and he was calling on Him that He may not command them to go away into the abyss, 
and there was there a herd of many pigs feeding on the mountain, and they were calling on Him that He might permit them to enter into these, and He permitted them, 
and the demons having gone forth from the man, entered into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep into the lake, and were drowned. 
And those feeding them, having seen what was come to pass, fled, and having gone, told it to the city, and to the fields; 
and they came forth to see what was come to pass, and they came to Jesus, and found the man sitting, out of whom the demons had gone forth, clothed, and right-minded, at the feet of Jesus, and they were afraid; 
and those also having seen it, told them how the demoniac was saved. 
And the whole multitude of the region of the Gadarenes asked Him to go away from them, because they were pressed with great fear, and He having entered into the boat, turned back. 
And the man from whom the demons had gone forth was imploring of Him to be with Him, and Jesus sent him away, saying, 
“Return to your house, and tell how God did great things to you”; and he went away through all the city proclaiming how Jesus did great things to him. 
And it came to pass, in the turning back of Jesus, the multitude received Him, for they were all looking for Him, 
and behold, there came a man whose name is Jairus, and he was a chief of the synagogue, and having fallen at the feet of Jesus, was calling on Him to come to his house, 
because he had an only daughter about twelve years old, and she was dying. And in His going away, the multitudes were thronging Him, 
and a woman, being with a flow of blood for twelve years, who, having spent all her living on physicians, was not able to be healed by any, 
having come near behind, touched the fringe of His garment, and immediately the flow of her blood stood still. 
And Jesus said, “Who is it that touched Me?” And all denying, Peter and those with him said, “Master, the multitudes press You, and throng You, and You say, Who is it that touched Me?” 
And Jesus said, “Someone touched Me, for I knew power having gone forth from Me.” 
And the woman, having seen that she was not hid, trembling, came, and having fallen before Him, for what cause she touched Him declared to Him before all the people, and how she was healed instantly; 
and He said to her, “Take courage, daughter, your faith has saved you, be going on to peace.” 
While He is yet speaking, there comes a certain one from the chief of the synagogue’s house, saying to him, “Your daughter has died, do not harass the Teacher”; 
and Jesus having heard, answered him, saying, “Do not be afraid, only believe, and she will be saved.” 
And having come into the house, He permitted no one to go in, except Peter, and James, and John, and the father of the child, and the mother; 
and they were all weeping, and beating themselves for her, and He said, “Do not weep, she did not die, but sleeps”; 
and they were deriding Him, knowing that she died; 
and He having put all forth outside, and having taken hold of her hand, called, saying, “Child, arise”; 
and her spirit came back, and she arose immediately, and He directed that there be given to her to eat; 
and her parents were amazed, but He charged them to say to no one what had come to pass. 
