John.
Chapter 16.
“These things I have spoken to you, that you may not be stumbled. 
They will put you out of the synagogues, but an hour comes that everyone who has killed you may think to offer service to God; 
and these things they will do to you, because they did not know the Father, nor Me. 
But these things I have spoken to you, that when the hour may come, you may remember them, that I said them to you, and I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you; 
and now I go away to Him who sent Me, and none of you asks Me, To where do you go? 
But because I have said to you these things, the sorrow has filled your heart. 
But I tell you the truth; it is better for you that I go away, for if I may not go away, the Comforter will not come to you, and if I go on, I will send Him to you; 
and having come, He will convict the world concerning sin, and concerning righteousness, and concerning judgment; 
concerning sin indeed, because they do not believe in Me; 
and concerning righteousness, because I go away to My Father, and you behold Me no more; 
and concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged. 
I have yet many things to say to you, but you are not able to bear them now; 
and when He may come—the Spirit of truth—He will guide you to all the truth, for He will not speak from Himself, but as many things as He will hear He will speak, and the coming things He will tell you; 
He will glorify Me, because He will take of Mine, and will tell to you. 
All things, as many as the Father has, are Mine; because of this I said that He will take of Mine, and will tell to you; 
a little while, and you do not behold Me, and again a little while, and you will see Me, because I go away to the Father.” 
Therefore some of His disciples said to one another, “What is this that He says to us, A little while, and you do not behold Me, and again a little while, and you will see Me, and, Because I go away to the Father?” 
They said then, “What is this He says—the little while? We have not known what He says.” 
Jesus, therefore, knew that they were wishing to ask Him, and He said to them, “Concerning this do you seek with one another, because I said, A little while, and you do not behold Me, and again a little while, and you will see Me? 
Truly, truly, I say to you that you will weep and lament, and the world will rejoice; and you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will become joy. 
The woman, when she may bear, has sorrow, because her hour came, and when she may bear the child, she no longer remembers the anguish, because of the joy that a man was born into the world. 
And you, therefore, now indeed have sorrow; and again I will see you, and your heart will rejoice, and no one takes your joy from you, 
and in that day you will question nothing of Me; truly, truly, I say to you, as many things as you may ask of the Father in My Name, He will give you; 
until now you asked nothing in My Name; ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full. 
I have spoken these things in allegories to you, but there comes an hour when I will no longer speak to you in allegories, but will tell you freely of the Father. 
In that day you will make request in My Name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father for you, 
for the Father Himself cherishes you, because you have cherished Me, and you have believed that I came forth from God; 
I came forth from the Father, and have come into the world; again I leave the world, and go on to the Father.” 
His disciples say to Him, “Behold, now You speak freely, and You do not speak allegory; 
now we have known that You have known all things, and have no need that anyone questions You; in this we believe that You came forth from God.” 
Jesus answered them, “Now do you believe? Behold, there comes an hour, 
and now it has come, that you may be scattered, each to his own things, and you may leave Me alone, and I am not alone, because the Father is with Me; 
these things I have spoken to you, that in Me you may have peace, in the world you will have tribulation, but take courage—I have overcome the world.” 
