Genesis.
Chapter 36.
And these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom. 
Esau has taken his wives from the daughters of Canaan: Adah daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah daughter of Anah, daughter of Zibeon the Hivite, 
and Bashemath daughter of Ishmael, sister of Nebajoth. 
And Adah bears to Esau, Eliphaz; and Bashemath has borne Reuel; 
and Aholibamah has borne Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. These are sons of Esau, who were born to him in the land of Canaan. 
And Esau takes his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and his livestock, and all his beasts, and all his substance which he has acquired in the land of Canaan, and goes into the country from the face of his brother Jacob; 
for their substance was more abundant than to dwell together, and the land of their sojournings was not able to bear them because of their livestock; 
and Esau dwells in Mount Seir: Esau is Edom. 
And these are the generations of Esau, father of Edom, in Mount Seir. 
These are the names of the sons of Esau: Eliphaz son of Adah, wife of Esau; Reuel son of Bashemath, wife of Esau. 
And the sons of Eliphaz are Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz; 
and Timnath has been concubine to Eliphaz son of Esau, and she bears to Eliphaz, Amalek; these are sons of Adah wife of Esau. 
And these are sons of Reuel: Nahath and Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah; these were sons of Bashemath wife of Esau. 
And these have been the sons of Aholibamah daughter of Anah, daughter of Zibeon, wife of Esau; and she bears to Esau, Jeush and Jaalam and Korah. 
These are chiefs of the sons of Esau: sons of Eliphaz, firstborn of Esau: Chief Teman, Chief Omar, Chief Zepho, Chief Kenaz, 
Chief Korah, Chief Gatam, Chief Amalek; these are chiefs of Eliphaz, in the land of Edom; these are sons of Adah. 
And these are sons of Reuel son of Esau: Chief Nahath, Chief Zerah, Chief Shammah, Chief Mizzah; these are chiefs of Reuel, in the land of Edom; these are sons of Bashemath wife of Esau. 
And these are sons of Aholibamah wife of Esau: Chief Jeush, Chief Jaalam, Chief Korah; these are chiefs of Aholibamah daughter of Anah, wife of Esau. 
These are sons of Esau (who is Edom), and these their chiefs. 
These are sons of Seir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, 
and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan; these are chiefs of the Horites, sons of Seir, in the land of Edom. 
And the sons of Lotan are Hori and Heman; and a sister of Lotan is Timna. 
And these are sons of Shobal: Alvan and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho and Onam. 
And these are sons of Zibeon, both Ajah and Anah: it is Anah that has found the Imim in the wilderness, in his feeding the donkeys of his father Zibeon. 
And these are sons of Anah: Dishon, and Aholibamah daughter of Anah. 
And these are sons of Dishon: Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 
These are sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan. 
These are sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran. 
These are chiefs of the Horite: Chief Lotan, Chief Shobal, Chief Zibeon, Chief Anah, 
Chief Dishon, Chief Ezer, Chief Dishan: these are chiefs of the Horite in reference to their chiefs in the land of Seir. 
And these are the kings who have reigned in the land of Edom before the reigning of a king over the sons of Israel. 
And Bela son of Beor reigns in Edom, and the name of his city is Dinhabah; 
and Bela dies, and Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrah reigns in his stead; 
and Jobab dies, and Husham from the land of the Temanite reigns in his stead. 
And Husham dies, and Hadad son of Bedad reigns in his stead (who strikes Midian in the field of Moab), and the name of his city is Avith; 
and Hadad dies, and Samlah of Masrekah reigns in his stead; 
and Samlah dies, and Saul from Rehoboth of the River reigns in his stead; 
and Saul dies, and Ba‘al-hanan son of Achbor reigns in his stead; 
and Ba‘al-hanan son of Achbor dies, and Hadar reigns in his stead, and the name of his city is Pau; and his wife’s name is Mehetabel daughter of Matred, daughter of Me-zahab. 
And these are the names of the chiefs of Esau, according to their families, according to their places, by their names: Chief Timnah, Chief Alvah, Chief Jetheth, 
Chief Aholibamah, Chief Elah, Chief Pinon, 
Chief Kenaz, Chief Teman, Chief Mibzar, 
Chief Magdiel, Chief Iram: these are chiefs of Edom, in reference to their dwellings, in the land of their possession; he is Esau father of Edom. 
