Mark.
Chapter 5.
And they came to the other side of the sea, to the region of the Gadarenes, 
and He having come forth out of the boat, immediately there met Him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, 
who had his dwelling in the tombs, and not even with chains was anyone able to bind him, 
because that many times he had been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been pulled in pieces by him, and the shackles broken in pieces, and none was able to tame him, 
and always, night and day, he was in the mountains, and in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. 
And having seen Jesus from afar, he ran and prostrated to Him, 
and having called with a loud voice, he said, “What regards me and You, Jesus, Son of God the Most High? I adjure You by God, may You not afflict me!” 
For He said to him, “Come forth, unclean spirit, out of the man!” 
And He was questioning him, “What is your name?” And he answered, saying, “Legion is my name, because we are many”; 
and he was calling on Him much, that He may not send them out of the region. 
And there was there, near the mountains, a great herd of pigs feeding, 
and all the demons called on Him, saying, “Send us to the pigs, that into them we may enter”; 
and immediately Jesus gave them leave, and having come forth, the unclean spirits entered into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep place to the sea—and they were about two thousand—and they were choked in the sea. 
And those feeding the pigs fled, and told in the city, and in the fields, and they came forth to see what it is that has been done; 
and they come to Jesus, and see the demoniac, sitting, and clothed, and right-minded—him having had the legion—and they were afraid; 
and those having seen it, declared to them how it had come to pass to the demoniac, and about the pigs; 
and they began to call on Him to go away from their borders. 
And He having gone into the boat, the demoniac was calling on Him that he may be with Him, 
and Jesus did not permit him, but says to him, “Go away to your house, to your own friends, and tell them how the LORD did great things to you, and dealt kindly with you”; 
and he went away, and began to proclaim in the Decapolis how Jesus did great things to him, and all were wondering. 
And Jesus having passed over in the boat again to the other side, there was gathered a great multitude to Him, and He was near the sea, 
and behold, there comes one of the chiefs of the synagogue, by name Jairus, and having seen Him, he falls at His feet, 
and he was calling on Him much, saying, “My little daughter is at the last extremity—that having come, You may lay on her Your hands, so that she may be saved, and she will live”; 
and He went away with him. And there was following Him a great multitude, and they were thronging Him, 
and a certain woman, being with a flow of blood for twelve years, 
and having suffered many things under many physicians, and having spent all that she had, and having profited nothing, but rather having come to the worse, 
having heard about Jesus, having come in the multitude behind, she touched His garment, 
for she said, “If I may even touch His garments, I will be saved”; 
and immediately the fountain of her blood was dried up, and she knew in the body that she has been healed of the plague. 
And immediately Jesus having known in Himself that power had gone forth out of Him, having turned in the multitude, said, “Who touched My garments?” 
And His disciples said to Him, “You see the multitude thronging You, and You say, Who touched Me!” 
And He was looking around to see her who did this, 
and the woman, having been afraid, and trembling, knowing what was done on her, came, and fell down before Him, and told Him all the truth, 
and He said to her, “Daughter, your faith has saved you; go away in peace, and be whole from your plague.” 
As He is yet speaking, there come from the chief of the synagogue’s house, certain, saying, “Your daughter died, why do you still harass the Teacher?” 
And Jesus immediately, having heard the word that is spoken, says to the chief of the synagogue, “Do not be afraid, only believe.” 
And He did not permit anyone to follow with Him, except Peter, and James, and John the brother of James; 
and He comes into the house of the chief of the synagogue, and sees a tumult, much weeping and wailing; 
and having gone in He says to them, “Why do you make a tumult, and weep? The child did not die, but sleeps”; 
and they were laughing at Him. And He, having put all forth, takes the father of the child, and the mother, and those with Him, and goes in where the child is lying, 
and having taken the hand of the child, He says to her, “Talitha cumi”; which is, being interpreted, “Girl (I say to you), arise.” 
And immediately the girl arose, and was walking, for she was twelve years old; and they were amazed with a great amazement, 
and He charged them much, that no one may know this thing, and He said that there be given to her to eat. 
