Exodus.
Chapter 24.
And He said to Moses, “Come up to YHWH, you, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy from the elderly of Israel, and you have bowed yourselves far off”; 
and Moses has drawn near to YHWH by himself; and they do not draw near, and the people do not go up with him. 
And Moses comes in, and recounts to the people all the words of YHWH, and all the judgments, and all the people answer with one voice, and say, “All the words which YHWH has spoken we do.” 
And Moses writes all the words of YHWH, and rises early in the morning, and builds an altar under the hill, and twelve standing pillars for the twelve tribes of Israel; 
and he sends the youths of the sons of Israel, and they cause burnt-offerings to ascend, and sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings to YHWH—calves. 
And Moses takes half of the blood and puts it in basins, and he has sprinkled half of the blood on the altar; 
and he takes the Scroll of the Covenant, and proclaims it in the ears of the people, and they say, “All that which YHWH has spoken we do, and we obey.” 
And Moses takes the blood and sprinkles it on the people, and says, “Behold, the blood of the covenant which YHWH has made with you, concerning all these things.” 
And Moses goes up, Aaron also, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy from the elderly of Israel, 
and they see the God of Israel, and under His feet is as the work of a pavement of sapphire, and as the substance of the heavens for purity; 
and He has not put forth His hand to those of the sons of Israel who are near, and they see God, and eat and drink. 
And YHWH says to Moses, “Come up to Me on the mountain and be there, and I give to you the tablets of stone, and the Law, and the command, which I have written to direct them.” 
And Moses rises—his minister Joshua also—and Moses goes up to the mountain of God; 
and he has said to the elderly, “Abide for us in this place until we return to you, and behold, Aaron and Hur are with you—he who has matters comes near to them.” 
And Moses goes up to the mountain, and the cloud covers the mountain; 
and the glory of YHWH dwells on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covers it for six days, and He calls to Moses on the seventh day from the midst of the cloud. 
And the appearance of the glory of YHWH is as a consuming fire on the top of the mountain, before the eyes of the sons of Israel; 
and Moses goes into the midst of the cloud, and goes up to the mountain, and Moses is on the mountain forty days and forty nights. 
