Deuteronomy.
Chapter 12.
“These are the statutes and the judgments which you observe to do in the land which YHWH, God of your fathers, has given to you to possess it, all the days that you are living on the ground. 
You utterly destroy all the places where the nations which you are dispossessing served their gods, on the high mountains, and on the heights, and under every green tree; 
and you have broken down their altars, and shattered their standing pillars, and you burn their Asherim with fire, and you cut down carved images of their gods, and have destroyed their name out of that place. 
You do not do so to your God YHWH; 
rather—that you seek after the place which your God YHWH chooses out of all your tribes to put His Name there, for His Dwelling Place, and you have entered there, 
and have brought in there your burnt-offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and the raised-offering of your hand, and your vows, and your free-will offerings, and the firstlings of your herd and of your flock; 
and you have eaten there before your God YHWH, and have rejoiced in every putting forth of your hand, you and your households, with which your God YHWH has blessed you. 
You do not do according to all that we are doing here today—each doing anything that is right in his own eyes— 
for until now you have not come to the rest and to the inheritance which your God YHWH is giving to you. 
When you have passed over the Jordan, and have dwelt in the land which your God YHWH is causing you to inherit, and He has given rest to you from all your surrounding enemies, and you have dwelt confidently, 
then it has been, the place on which your God YHWH fixes to cause His Name to dwell there, there you bring in all that which I am commanding you: your burnt-offerings, and your sacrifices, your tithes, and the raised-offering of your hand, and all the choice of your vows which you vow to YHWH. 
And you have rejoiced before your God YHWH, you, and your sons, and your daughters, and your menservants, and your handmaids, and the Levite who is within your gates, for he has no part and inheritance with you. 
Take heed to yourself lest you cause your burnt-offerings to ascend in any place which you see; 
rather—that in the place which YHWH chooses in one of your tribes, there you cause your burnt-offerings to ascend, and there you do all that which I am commanding you. 
Nevertheless, you slaughter anything of the desire of your soul, and have eaten its flesh according to the blessing of your God YHWH which He has given to you in all your gates; the unclean and the clean eat it, as if the roe and as if the deer. 
Only, you do not eat the blood—you pour it on the earth as water; 
you are not able to eat within your gates the tithe of your grain, and of your new wine, and your oil, and the firstlings of your herd and of your flock, and any of your vows which you vow, and your free-will offerings, and a raised-offering of your hand; 
but you eat it before your God YHWH in the place which your God YHWH fixes on, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your manservant, and your handmaid, and the Levite who is within your gates, and you have rejoiced before your God YHWH in every putting forth of your hand; 
take heed to yourself lest you forsake the Levite for all your days on your ground. 
When your God YHWH enlarges your border, as He has spoken to you, and you have said, Let me eat flesh—for your soul desires to eat flesh—you eat flesh of all the desire of your soul. 
When the place is far from you in which your God YHWH chooses to put His Name there, then you have sacrificed from your herd and from your flock which YHWH has given to you, as I have commanded you, and have eaten within your gates, of all the desire of your soul; 
only, as the roe and the deer is eaten, so do you eat it; the unclean and the clean alike eat it. 
Only, be sure not to eat the blood, for the blood is the life, and you do not eat the life with the flesh; 
you do not eat it—you pour it on the earth as water; 
you do not eat it, in order that it may be well with you and with your sons after you when you do that which is right in the eyes of YHWH. 
Only, your holy things which you have, and your vows, you take up, and have gone to the place which YHWH chooses, 
and you have made your burnt-offerings—the flesh and the blood—on the altar of your God YHWH; and the blood of your sacrifices is poured out by the altar of your God YHWH, and you eat the flesh. 
Observe, and you have obeyed all these words which I am commanding you, in order that it may be well with you and with your sons after you for all time, when you do that which is good and right in the eyes of your God YHWH. 
When your God YHWH cuts off the nations—to where you are going in to possess them—from your presence, and you have possessed them, and have dwelt in their land— 
take heed to yourself lest you are ensnared after them, after their being destroyed out of your presence, and lest you inquire about their gods, saying, How do these nations serve their gods, that I also do so? 
You do not do so to your God YHWH; for every abomination that YHWH has hated they have done for their gods, for they even burn their sons and their daughters with fire for their gods. 
The whole thing which I am commanding you, you observe to do it; you do not add to it, nor diminish from it.” 
