1 Chronicles.
Chapter 6.
Sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
And the sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. 
And sons of Amram: Aaron, and Moses, and his daughter Miriam. And sons of Aaron: Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
Eleazar begot Phinehas, Phinehas begot Abishua, 
and Abishua begot Bukki, and Bukki begot Uzzi, 
and Uzzi begot Zerahiah, and Zerahiah begot Meraioth, 
Meraioth begot Amariah, and Amariah begot Ahitub, 
and Ahitub begot Zadok, and Zadok begot Ahimaaz, 
and Ahimaaz begot Azariah, and Azariah begot Johanan, 
and Johanan begot Azariah—him who acted as priest in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem. 
And Azariah begets Amariah, and Amariah begot Ahitub, 
and Ahitub begot Zadok, and Zadok begot Shallum, 
and Shallum begot Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begot Azariah, 
and Azariah begot Seraiah, and Seraiah begot Jehozadak; 
and Jehozadak has gone in YHWH’s removing Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. 
Sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari. 
And these are names of sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei. 
And sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. 
Sons of Merari; Mahli and Mushi. And these are families of the Levite according to their fathers; 
of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son, 
Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeaterai his son. 
Sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son, 
Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son, 
Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son. 
And sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth. 
Elkanah—sons of Elkanah: Zophai his son, and Nahath his son, 
Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son. 
And sons of Samuel: the firstborn Vashni, and the second Abijah. 
Sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son, 
Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son. 
And these are they whom David stationed over the parts of the song of the house of YHWH, from the resting of the Ark, 
and they are ministering before the Dwelling Place of the Tent of Meeting, in song, until the building by Solomon of the house of YHWH in Jerusalem; and they stand according to their ordinance over their service. 
And these are those standing, and their sons, of the sons of the Kohathite: Heman the singer, son of Joel, son of Shemuel, 
son of Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Toah, 
son of Zuph, son of Elkanah, son of Mahath, son of Amasai, 
son of Elkanah, son of Joel, son of Azariah, son of Zephaniah, 
son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah, 
son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel. 
And his brother Asaph, who is standing on his right—Asaph, son of Berachiah, son of Shimea, 
son of Michael, son of Baaseiah, son of Malchiah, 
son of Ethni, son of Zerah, son of Adaiah, 
son of Ethan, son of Zimmah, son of Shimei, 
son of Jahath, son of Gershom, son of Levi. 
And sons of Merari, their brothers, on the left: Ethan son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of Malluch, 
son of Hashabiah, son of Amaziah, son of Hilkiah, 
son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shamer, 
son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merari, son of Levi. 
And their brothers the Levites are put to all the service of the Dwelling Place of the house of God. 
And Aaron and his sons are making incense on the altar of the burnt-offering, and on the altar of the incense, for all the work of the Holy of Holies, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses servant of God commanded. 
And these are sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son, 
Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son, 
Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son, 
Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son. 
And these are their dwellings, throughout their towers, in their borders, of the sons of Aaron, of the family of the Kohathite, for the lot was theirs; 
and they give to them Hebron in the land of Judah and its outskirts around it; 
and they gave the field of the city and its villages to Caleb son of Jephunneh. 
And they gave the cities of refuge to the sons of Aaron: Hebron, and Libnah and its outskirts, and Jattir, and Eshtemoa and its outskirts, 
and Hilen and its outskirts, Debir and its outskirts, 
and Ashan and its outskirts, and Beth-Shemesh and its outskirts. 
And from the tribe of Benjamin: Geba and its outskirts, and Allemeth and its outskirts, and Anathoth and its outskirts. All their cities are thirteen cities among their families. 
And to the sons of Kohath, those left of the family of the tribe, from the half of the tribe, the half of Manasseh, by lot, are ten cities. 
And to the sons of Gershom, for their families, from the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribe of Asher, and from the tribe of Naphtali, and from the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, are thirteen cities. 
To the sons of Merari, for their families, from the tribe of Reuben, and from the tribe of Gad, and from the tribe of Zebulun, by lot, are twelve cities. 
And the sons of Israel give the cities and their outskirts to the Levites. 
And they give by lot from the tribe of the sons of Judah, and from the tribe of the sons of Simeon, and from the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, these cities which they call by name; 
and some of the families of the sons of Kohath have cities of their border from the tribe of Ephraim; 
and they give the cities of refuge to them: Shechem and its outskirts in the hill-country of Ephraim, and Gezer and its outskirts, 
and Jokmeam and its outskirts, and Beth-Horan and its outskirts, 
and Aijalon and its outskirts, and Gath-Rimmon and its outskirts; 
and from the half tribe of Manasseh: Aner and its outskirts, and Bileam and its outskirts, for the family of the sons of Kohath who are left. 
To the sons of Gershom from the family of the half of the tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan and its outskirts, and Ashtaroth and its outskirts; 
and from the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh and its outskirts, Daberath and its outskirts, 
and Ramoth and its outskirts, and Anem and its outskirts; 
and from the tribe of Asher: Mashal and its outskirts, and Abdon and its outskirts, 
and Hukok and its outskirts, and Rehob and its outskirts; 
and from the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee and its outskirts, and Hammon and its outskirts, and Kirjathaim and its outskirts. 
To the sons of Merari who are left, from the tribe of Zebulun: Rimmon and its outskirts, Tabor and its outskirts; 
and from beyond the Jordan by Jericho, at the east of the Jordan, from the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the wilderness and its outskirts, and Jahzah and its outskirts, 
and Kedemoth and its outskirts, and Mephaath and its outskirts; 
and from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead and its outskirts, and Mahanaim and its outskirts, 
and Heshbon and its outskirts, and Jazer and its outskirts. 
