2 Corinthians.
Chapter 12.
To boast, really, is not profitable for me, for I will come to visions and revelations of the LORD. 
I have known a man in Christ, fourteen years ago—whether in the body I have not known, whether out of the body I have not known, God has known—such a one being snatched up to the third heaven; 
and I have known such a man—whether in the body, whether out of the body, I have not known, God has known— 
that he was snatched up to the paradise, and heard unutterable sayings, that it is not possible for man to speak. 
Of such a one I will boast, and of myself I will not boast, except in my weaknesses, 
for if I may wish to boast, I will not be a fool, for I will say truth; but I refrain, lest in regard to me anyone may think anything above what he sees me, or hears anything of me; 
and that by the exceeding greatness of the revelations I might not be exalted too much, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, that he might batter me, that I might not be exalted too much. 
I called on the LORD three times concerning this thing, that it might depart from me, 
and He said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for My power is perfected in weakness”; most gladly, therefore, will I rather boast in my weaknesses, that the power of the Christ may rest on me: 
for this reason I am well pleased in weaknesses, in damages, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses—for Christ; for whenever I may be weak, then I am powerful; 
I have become a fool—boasting; you compelled me; for I ought to have been commended by you, for I was behind the very chiefest apostles in nothing—even if I am nothing. 
The signs, indeed, of the apostle were worked among you in all patience, in signs, and wonders, and mighty deeds, 
for what is there in which you were inferior to the rest of the assemblies, except that I myself was not a burden to you? Forgive me this injustice! 
Behold, a third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be a burden to you, for I do not seek yours, but you, for the children ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children, 
and I will most gladly spend and be entirely spent for your souls, even if, loving you more abundantly, I am loved less. 
And be it so, I did not burden you, but being crafty, I took you with guile; 
anyone of those whom I have sent to you—did I take advantage of you by him? 
I begged Titus, and sent with him the brother; did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same Spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps? 
Again, do you think that we are making defense to you? We speak before God in Christ; and all things, beloved, are for your up-building, 
for I fear lest, having come, I may not find you such as I wish, and I may be found by you such as you do not wish, lest there be strifes, envyings, wraths, revelries, slanders, whisperings, puffings up, insurrections, 
lest again having come, my God may humble me in regard to you, and I may mourn many of those having sinned before, and having not changed their mind concerning the uncleanness, and whoredom, and licentiousness, that they practiced. 
