Hebrews.
Chapter 3.
For this reason, holy brothers, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and Chief Priest of our profession, Christ Jesus, 
being faithful to Him who appointed Him, as also Moses was in all His house. 
For this One has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as He who builds it has more honor than the house. 
For every house is built by someone, and He who built all things is God, 
and Moses was indeed steadfast in all His house, as an attendant, for a testimony of those things that were to be spoken— 
but Christ, as a Son over His house, whose house we are, if we hold fast the boldness and the rejoicing of the hope to the end. 
For this reason, as the Holy Spirit says, “Today, if you may hear His voice— 
you may not harden your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of the temptation in the wilderness, 
in which your fathers tempted Me; they proved Me, and saw My works for forty years; 
for this reason I was grieved with that generation and said, They always go astray in their heart, and these have not known My ways; 
so I swore in My anger, They will not enter into My rest.” 
Watch out, brothers, lest there will be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in the falling away from the living God, 
but exhort one another every day, while it is called “Today,” that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin, 
for we have become partakers of the Christ, if we may hold fast the confidence we had at the beginning to the end, 
as it is said, “Today, if you may hear His voice, you may not harden your hearts, as in the provocation.” 
For who were those, having heard, that provoked, but not all those having come out of Egypt through Moses? 
But with whom was He grieved forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness? 
And to whom did He swear that they will not enter into His rest, except to those who did not believe? 
And we see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief. 
