1ST TIMOTHY.
Chapter 4.
But the Spirit saith openly, that in the last times some men shall depart from the faith, giving attention to spirits of error, and to (the) teachings of devils (or and to the doctrines of demons); 
that speak leasing in hypocrisy (or who speak lies and hypocrisy), and have their conscience corrupted, 
forbidding to be wedded, and to abstain from meats, which God made to take with (the) doing of thankings, to faithful men, and them that have known the truth. (forbidding to be wedded, and to abstain from foods, which God made to be received with thanksgiving, or with the giving of thanks, by faithful men, and by those who have known the truth.) 
For each creature of God is good, and nothing is to be cast away, which is taken with (the) doing of thankings; (For each creation of God is good, and nothing is to be thrown away, which is received with thanksgiving, or with the giving of thanks;) 
for it is hallowed by the word of God, and by prayer. 
Thou putting forth these things to brethren, shalt be a good minister of Christ Jesus; nourished with words of faith and of good doctrine, which thou hast gotten in (pur)suing. (Thou putting forth these things to the brothers, shalt be a good servant of the Messiah Jesus; nourished with words of faith and of good doctrine, which thou hast followed.) 
But eschew thou or shun thou uncovenable fables (or But shun unsuitable fables), and old women’s fables; haunt thyself to piety. 
For bodily exercitation is profitable to little thing; but piety is profitable to all things, that hath a promise of life that now is, and that is to come. 
A true word, and worthy (of) all acceptation or (of) all acception. (This word is true, and worthy of all acceptance.) 
And in this thing we travail, and be cursed, for we hope in (the) living God, that is (the) Saviour of all men, most(ly) of faithful men (or and most of all the faithful). 
Command thou this thing, and teach (it). 
No man despise thy youth, but be thou ensample of faithful men (or but be an example to those in the faith), in word, in living, in charity (or in love), in faith, in chastity. 
Till I come, take attention to reading, to exhortation and teaching. 
Do not thou little care (for), or despise, the grace which is in thee, that is given to thee by prophecy, with (the) putting on of the hands of the priesthood. 
Think thou (on) these things, in these be thou, (so) that thy profiting be showed to all men. 
Take attention to thyself and to doctrine; be busy in them. For thou doing these things, shalt make both thyself safe, and them that hear thee (or For thou doing these things, shalt save thyself, and those who listen to thee). 
