DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 13.
And prophets and doctors (or teachers of the Law) were in the church that was at Antioch, in which Barnabas, and Simon, that was called Black, and Lucius Cyreneus, and Manaen, that was the suckling-frère of Herod tetrarch (or who was the foster-brother of Herod the tetrarch), that is, (the)prince of the fourth part, and Saul were. 
And when they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said to them, Separate ye to me Saul and Barnabas, into the work to which I have taken them. (And when they served the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Spirit said to them, Set apart Saul and Barnabas, for the work to which I have called them.) 
Then they fasted, and prayed, and laid hands on them, and let them go. 
But they were sent of the Holy Ghost (or And they were sent by the Holy Spirit), and went forth to Seleucia, and from thence they went by boat to Cyprus. 
And when they came to Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of (the) Jews; and they had also John in ministry or in service. 
And when they had walked by all the isle to Paphos, they found a man, a witch, or they found some man witch, a false prophet, a Jew, to whom the name was Barjesus, (who was also called Elymas), 
that was with the proconsul Sergius Paulus, a prudent man. This (man) called Barnabas and Paul, and desired to hear the word of God. 
But (this) Elymas the witch withstood them; for his name is expounded so or (it) is interpreted so; and he sought to turn away the proconsul from belief. 
But Saul, which is said also Paul, was filled with the Holy Ghost, and beheld into him, (But Saul, who (is) also (called) Paul, was filled with the Holy Spirit, and looked at him,) 
and said, A! thou full of all guile, and all falseness, thou son of the devil, thou enemy of all rightwiseness, thou leavest not (off) to turn upside-down, or to subvert, or to destroy, the rightful ways of the Lord. 
And now lo! the hand of the Lord is on thee, and thou shalt be blind, and not seeing the sun into a time. And anon, (or at once), a mist and darkness felled down on him; and he went about, and sought him that should give the hand to him. 
Then the proconsul, when he had seen the deed, believed, wondering on the teaching of the Lord. 
And when from Paphos Paul had gone by boat, and they that were with him, they came to Perga of Pamphylia; but John departed from them, and turned again to Jerusalem (or and returned to Jerusalem). 
And they went from Perga, and came to Antioch of Pisidia; and they entered into the synagogue in the day of sabbaths, and sat, (or and they entered into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and sat down). 
And after the reading of the law and of the prophets, the princes of the synagogue sent to them (or the leaders of the synagogue sent word to them), and said, Brethren, if any word of exhortation to the people is in you, say ye. 
And Paul rose, and with hand bade silence, and said, Men of Israel, and ye that dread God, hear ye. (And Paul rose up, and with his hand ordered silence, and said, Israelites, and ye who have fearful reverence for God, listen to me.) 
God of the people of Israel chose our fathers, and enhanced the people, when they were comelings in the land of Egypt, and in an high arm he led them out of it; (God of the people of Israel chose our fathers, and raised up the people, when they were foreigners in the land of Egypt, and with an outstretched arm he led them out of it;) 
and by the time of forty years he suffered their manners (or their ways) in (the) desert. 
And he destroyed seven folks in the land of Canaan, and by sort parted to them their land, (And he destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, and by lot, or for an inheritance, divided up their land to them,) 
as after four hundred and fifty years. And after these things he gave doomsmen (or judges), till to Samuel, the prophet. 
And from that time they asked (for) a king, and God gave to them Saul, the son of Cis, a man of the lineage of Benjamin, by forty years. (And at that time they asked for a king, and God gave them Saul, the son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.) 
And when he was done away, he raised to them David the king, to whom he bare witnessing (or of whom he testified), and said, I have found David, the son of Jesse, a man after mine (own) heart, which (or who) shall do all my will. 
Of whose seed by the promise God hath led out to Israel a Saviour Jesus, 
when John preached before the face of his coming the baptism of penance (or the baptism of repentance) to all the people of Israel. 
But when John ful filled his course, he said, I am not he, whom ye deem me to be (or whom ye judge me to be); but lo! he (that) cometh after me, and I am not worthy to do off or to unbind the shoes of his feet. 
Brethren, and sons of the kind of Abraham, and which that in you dread God, to you the word of this health is sent. (Brothers, and sons of the kindred of Abraham, and those of you who have fearful reverence for God, to you the message of this salvation is sent.) 
For they that dwell at Jerusalem, and (the) princes of it, (or For they who live in Jerusalem, and their leaders), that knew not this Jesus, and the voices of (the) prophets, that by every sabbath be read, deemed, and fulfilled; 
and they found in him no cause (worthy) of death, and (yet) asked of Pilate, that they should slay him. (and they found in him no crime worthy of death, but yet they asked of Pilate, that he should be killed, or executed.) 
And when they had ended all things that were written of him, they took him down off the tree, and laid him in a grave (or and laid him in a tomb). 
And God raised him from death in the third day; Forsooth God raised him from (the) dead the third day; 
which was seen by many days to them that went up together with him from Galilee into Jerusalem, which be till now his witnesses to the people. (who was seen for many days by those who went up together with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who up to the present be his witnesses to the people.) 
And we show to you the promise that was made to our fathers; 
for God hath fulfilled this to their sons, and again-raised Jesus (or and raised up Jesus); as in the second psalm it is written, Thou art my Son, today I begat thee. 
And he that again-raised him from death or Forsooth that he again-raised him from (the) dead, that he should not turn again into corruption, said thus, For I shall give to you the holy true things of David. (And he who raised him from the dead, so that he would never return to corruption, or to death and destruction, said thus, I shall give you the holy and true blessings which I promised to David.) 
Therefore and in another stead he saith, Thou shalt not give thine holy (One) to see corruption. (And so in another place he saith, Thou shalt not allow thine Holy One to experience death and destruction, that is, to rot in the grave.) 
But David in his generation, when he had ministered to the will of God (or when he had served the will of God), died or slept, and was laid with his fathers, and saw corruption; 
but he whom God raised from death or soothly he whom God raised from (the) dead, saw not corruption (or did not suffer corruption, or rot in the grave). 
Therefore, brethren, be it known to you, that by him remission of sins is told to you, (And so brothers, let it be known to you, that through him forgiveness of sins is now told to you,) 
from all sins, of which ye might not be justified in the law of Moses (or under the Law of Moses). In this each man that believeth, is justified. 
Therefore see ye, that it come not to you, that is before-said in the prophets, 
Ye despisers, see ye, and wonder ye, +or See ye, despisers, and wonder ye, and be ye scattered abroad; for I work a work in your days, a work that ye shall not believe, if any man shall tell itout to you. 
And when they went out, they prayed, that in the sabbath (pur)suing (or that on the following Sabbath), they should speak to them these words. 
And when the synagogue was left, many of the Jews and comelings worshipping God (pur)sued Paul and Barnabas; that spake, and counselled them, that they should dwell in the grace of God. (And when the synagogue was let go, many of the Jews and newcomers worshipping God followed after Paul and Barnabas; who spoke, and counselled them, that they should remain in the grace of God.) 
And in the sabbath (pur)suing (or And on the following Sabbath), almost all the city came together, to hear the word of God. 
And (the) Jews saw the people, and (they) were filled with envy, and gainsaid these things that were said of Paul (or and spoke against those things that were said by Paul), and blasphemed. 
Then Paul and Barnabas steadfastly said, To you it behooved (us) first to speak the word of God; but for ye put it away, and have deemed you(rselves) unworthy to everlasting life +or and have deemed you(rselves) unworthy of everlasting life, lo! we turn to (the) heathen men. (Then Paul and Barnabas resolutely said, It behooved us first to speak the word of God to you; but because ye have pushed it away, and have deemed yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold! we shall turn to the Gentiles.) 
For so the Lord commanded us, I have set thee into (a) light of (the) heathen men, that thou be into health to the utmost or to the uttermost of the earth. (For so the Lord commanded us, I have ordained thee to be a light for the Gentiles, so that thou be a means of salvation unto the uttermost terms, or limits, of the earth.) 
And (the) heathen men heard, and joyed, and glorified the word of the Lord; and believed, as many as were before-ordained to everlasting life. (And the Gentiles heard, and rejoiced, and glorified the word of the Lord; and believed, as many as were foreordained, or predestined, for eternal life.) 
And the word of the Lord was far sown in all that country (or region). 
But the Jews stirred religious women, and honest, and the worthiest or the first men of the city, and stirred persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their countries. (But the Jews excited some honest and religious women, and the worthiest men of the city, and stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their region.) 
And they shook away into them the dust of their feet or And they shook away the powder of (their) feet into them, and came to Iconium. 
And the disciples were filled with joy and the Holy Ghost. (And so the disciples were filled with joy and the Holy Spirit.) 
