MATTHEW.
Chapter 19.
And it was done, when Jesus had ended these words, he passed from Galilee (or he went forth from Galilee), and came into the coasts of Judea over (the) Jordan (River). 
And much people (pur)sued him (or And many people followed him), and he healed them there. 
And the Pharisees came to him, tempting him, and said, Whether it be leaveful to a man to leave his wife, for any cause? +or Whether it is leaveful for a man to leave, or forsake, his wife, for whatever cause?(And the Pharisees came to him, to test him, and said, Is it lawful for a man to leave his wife, for any reason?) 
Which answered, and said to them, Have ye not read, for he that made men at the beginning, made them male and female? 
And he said, For this thing a man shall leave (his) father and mother, and he shall draw or shall cleave to his wife; and they shall be twain in one flesh. 
And so they be not now twain, but one flesh. Therefore man separate not that thing that God hath joined or Therefore a man part not that thing that God enjoined, or knit together. 
They say to him, What then commanded Moses, to give a libel or a little book of forsaking, and (then) to leave of or to forsake? (And they said to him, Then why did Moses command us, to write a bill of forsaking, or a notice of divorce, and then we be able to leave, or to forsake, a woman?) 
And he said to them, For Moses, for the hardness of your heart(s), suffered you to leave your wives, (or It was because of the hardness of your hearts, that Moses allowed you to leave your wives); but from the beginning it was not so. 
And I say to you, that whoever leaveth his wife, no but for fornication, and weddeth another, doeth lechery or doeth adultery; and he that weddeth the forsaken wife, doeth lechery or doeth adultery. 
His disciples say to him, If the cause of a man with his wife is so, it speedeth not to be wedded (or it is more expedient not to be married). 
And he said to them, Not all men take this word; (no) but they to which it is given. (And he said to them, Everyone cannot receive this word; only those to whom it is given.) 
For there be geldings, which be so born of the mother’s womb or which be thus born of their mother’s womb; and there be geldings, that be made of men; and there be geldings, that have gelded themselves, for the kingdom of heavens. He that may take, take he, (or He who can receive this word, receive it). 
Then little children were brought to him, that he should put his hands to them, and pray (for them). And the disciples blamed them. (Then little children were brought to him, so that he would lay his hands on them, and pray for them. And the disciples rebuked them.) 
But Jesus said to them, Suffer ye that (the) little children come to me or Suffer ye (the) little children (to) come to me, and do not ye forbid them; for of such is the kingdom of heavens. (But Jesus said to them, Allow the little children to come to me, and do not forbid them; for of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.) 
And when he had put to them (his) hands, he went from thence. (And after he had laid his hands on them, he went away from there.) 
And lo! one came, and said to him, Good master, what good thing shall I do, that I have everlasting life? (And behold! one came, and said to him, Good Teacher, what good thing should I do, so that I can have, or so that I can get, eternal life?) 
Which saith to him, What askest thou me of good thing(s)? (or Why askest me about good things, or about what is good?) There is one good God. But if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. 
He saith to him, Which? And Jesus said, Thou shalt not do manslaying, thou shalt not do adultery, thou shalt not do theft, thou shalt not say false witnessing, (or thou shalt not give false testimony, or thou shalt not lie); 
worship thy father and thy mother or honour thou thy father and thy mother, and, thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
The young man saith to him, I have kept all these things from my youth, what yet faileth to me? 
Jesus saith to him, If thou wilt be perfect, go, and sell all (the) things that thou hast, and give (the proceeds) to poor men (or to the poor), and (then) thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come, and (pur)sue me (or and follow me). 
And when the young man had heard these words, he went away sorrowful, for he had many possessions. 
And Jesus said to his disciples, I say to you truth, or Truly I say to you, (or I tell you the truth), for a rich man of hard shall enter into the kingdom of heavens. 
And again I say to you, it is lighter (for) a camel to pass through a needle’s eye, or it is easier (for) a camel to pass through the hole of a needle, than (for) a rich man to enter into the kingdom of heavens. 
When these things were heard, the disciples wondered greatly, and said, Who then may be safe? (or Then who can be saved?) 
Jesus beheld (them), and said to them, With men this thing is impossible; but with God all things be possible. 
Then Peter answered, and said to him, Lo! we have forsaken all things, and we have (pur)sued thee; what then shall be to us? (Then Peter answered, and said to him, Behold! we have forsaken everything, and we have followed thee; then what shall be for us?) 
And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, that ye that have forsaken all things, and have (pur)sued me, in the regeneration when man’s Son shall sit in the seat of his majesty, also ye shall sit on twelve seats, deeming the twelve kindreds of Israel. (And Jesus said to them, I tell you the truth, that ye who have forsaken everything, and have followed me, in the regeneration when man’s Son shall sit on the throne of his majesty, ye shall also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.) 
And every man that forsaketh house, or brethren or sisters, or father or mother, or wife or children, or fields, for my name, he shall take an hundredfold, and shall wield everlasting life, (or he shall receive a hundred times as much, and shall gain, or possess, eternal life). 
But many shall be, the first the last, and the last the first. 
