TITUS.
Chapter 1.
Paul, the servant of God, and (an) apostle of Jesus Christ, by the faith of the chosen of God, and by the knowing of the truth, which is after piety, 
into the hope of everlasting life, which life God that lieth not, promised before (the) times of the world; (in the hope of eternal life, which life God who lieth not, promised before the creation of the world;) 
but he hath showed in his times his word in preaching, that is betaken to me (or that is delivered to me), by the commandment of God, our Saviour, 
to Titus, most dearworthy son or beloved son, by the common faith, grace and (the) peace of God the Father, and of Christ Jesus, our Saviour, (or and of the Messiah Jesus, our Saviour). 
For cause of this thing I left thee at Crete, (so) that thou amend those things that fail, and ordain priests by cities, as also I assigned to thee or I disposed to thee. 
If any man is without crime, or great sin, an husband of one wife, and hath faithful sons, not in accusation of lechery, or not subject. 
For it behooveth a bishop to be without crime, as a dispenser of God, not proud, not wrathful, not given to drunkenness, not a smiter, not covetous of foul winning(s); 
but holding hospitality, benign, prudent, sober, just, holy, continent, 
taking or embracing that true word, that is after doctrine; that he be mighty to admonish in wholesome teaching or doctrine, and to reprove them that gainsay (or and to rebuke those who speak against it). 
For there be many unobedient, and vain speakers, and deceivers, most(ly) they that be of (the) circumcision, (or mostly those who be of the circumcision, or who be circumcised), 
which it behooveth to be reproved (or who it behooveth to be rebuked); which subvert all houses, teaching which things it behooveth not, for the love of foul winning. 
And one of them, their proper prophet said (or their own prophet said), Men of Crete be(for)evermore liars, evil beasts, of slow womb. 
This witnessing is true. For which cause blame them sore, that they be (made) whole in (the) faith, (This testimony is true. For which reason sharply rebuke them, so that they can be made whole in the faith,) 
not giving attention to (the) fables of (the) Jews, and to (the) commandments of men, that turn away them from (the) truth or (that) turn them away from (the) truth. 
And all things be clean to clean men; but to unclean men and to unfaithful (men), nothing is clean, for the soul and (the) conscience of them be made unclean. 
They acknowledge that they know God, but by (their) deeds they deny him; when they be abominable, and unbelieveful, and reprovable to all good work(s)(or and unfit for any good work). 
