PSALMS.
Chapter 138.
The psalm of David. Lord, I shall acknowledge to thee in all mine heart; for thou heardest the words of my mouth. My God, I shall sing to thee in the sight of angels; (A song by David. Lord, I shall praise thee with all my heart. My God, I shall sing praises to thee before the angels, or before the gods.) 
I shall worship to(ward) thine holy temple, and I shall acknowledge to thy name. On thy mercy and thy truth; for thou hast magnified thine holy name above all thing. (I shall worship towards thy holy Temple, and I shall praise thy name; because of thy love, and thy faithfulness; for thou hast magnified thy holy name above all things.) 
In whatever day I shall inwardly call thee, hear thou me; thou shalt multiply virtue in my soul. (On whatever day I called to thee, thou answeredest me; and thou hast multiplied the strength in my soul or and thou hast made me strong.) 
Lord, all the kings of earth acknowledge to thee; for they heard all the words of thy mouth. (Lord, all the kings of the earth shall praise thee; for they have heard all the words of thy mouth.) 
And sing they in the ways of the Lord (or And they shall sing of the ways of the Lord); for the glory of the Lord is great. 
For the Lord is high, and beholdeth meek things; and knoweth afar high things. (For though the Lord is high above, he looketh upon the meek or he careth for the humble; and he knoweth the proud from afar.) 
If I shall go in the midst of tribulation, thou shalt quicken me; and thou stretchedest forth thine hand on the ire of mine enemies, and thy right hand made me safe. (Yea, though I go in the midst of trouble, or of tribulation, thou keepest me safe or thou keepest me alive; and thou stretchest forth thy hand against the rage of my enemies, and thy right hand savest me.) 
The Lord shall yield for me, Lord, thy mercy isinto without end; despise thou not the works of thine hands. (The Lord shall bring to pass his promises to me. O Lord, thy love is forever; so complete thy work.) 
