GALATIANS.
Chapter 5.
Stand ye therefore, and do not ye again be held in the yoke of servage. (And so stand firm, and do not be held again in the yoke of servitude or slavery.) 
Lo! I, Paul, say to you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall nothing profit to you. (Behold! I, Paul, say to you, that if ye be circumcised, the Messiah shall be of no profit to you.) 
And I witness again to each man that circumciseth himself (or And I testify again to each man who circumciseth himself), that he is a debtor of all the law to be done. 
And ye be voided away from Christ, and ye that be justified in the law, ye have fallen away from grace. (And ye be devoid of the Messiah, yea, ye who be justified by the Law, ye have fallen away from grace.) 
For we through the Spirit of belief abide the hope of rightwiseness. For we by (the) Spirit of faith abide the hope of rightwiseness. 
For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision is anything worth, neither prepuce, but the belief that worketh by charity or but (the) faith that worketh by charity. (For in Jesus Christ circumcision is not worth anything, nor is uncircumcision, but only faith that worketh through love.) 
Ye ran well; who hindered you that ye obeyed not to the truth? 
Consent ye to no man; for this counsel is not of (or from) him that hath called you. 
A little sourdough impaireth or maketh sour all the gobbet. (A little leaven maketh the whole piece sour.) 
I trust on you in our Lord, that ye should understand none other thing. And who that disturbeth you or Forsooth he that distroubleth you, shall bear doom (or shall receive God’s judgement), whoever he be. 
And, brethren, if I preach yet circumcision, what suffer I yet persecution? then the stumbling of the cross is avoided/is voided. (And, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why do I still suffer persecution? for then the stumbling of the cross is made null and void.) 
I would that they were cut away, that disturb you. I would that they that distrouble you, be also cut off.(I wish that those who disturb or trouble you, wanting you to be circumcised just like they be, would cut it all off!) 
For, brethren, ye be called into freedom or into liberty; only give ye not freedom or liberty into (an) occasion of (the) flesh, but by charity of the Spirit serve ye together (or but in the love of the Spirit serve one another). 
For every law or all the law is fulfilled in one word (or For all the Law is fulfilled in a single sentence), Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
And if ye bite, and eat each other, see ye, lest ye be wasted each from (the) other (or lest ye destroy one another). 
And I say to you in Christ(or And I say to you in the Messiah), walk ye in (the) Spirit, and ye shall not perform the desires of the flesh. 
For the flesh coveteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; for these be adversaries together, that ye do not all things that ye will, (or for they be adversaries with each other, so that ye do not do the things that ye desire to do). 
That if ye be led by the Spirit, ye be not under the law. (But if ye be led by the Spirit, ye shall not be under the Law.) 
And the works of the flesh be open, which be fornication, uncleanness, unchastity, lechery, 
service of false gods or serving of idols, witchcrafts, enmities, strivings or strives, indignations, wraths, chidings, dissensions, sects or heresies, 
envies, manslayings, drunkennesses, unmeasurable eatings or gluttonies, and things like to these, which I say to you before, as I have told to you before, for they that do such things, shall not have the kingdom of God, (or for they who do such things, shall not possess the Kingdom of God). 
But the fruit of the Spirit is charity (or love), joy, peace, patience, long abiding (or endurance), benignity, or good will, goodness, mildness (or meekness and humility), faith, 
temperance, continence, chastity; against such things (there) is no law. 
And they that be of Christ, have crucified their flesh with vices and covetings or concupiscences. (And they who belong to the Messiah, have crucified their flesh with its vices and its coveting.) 
If we live by (the) Spirit, walk we by (the) Spirit; 
be we not made covetous of vain glory, stirring each other to wrath, or having envy each to (the) other. (be we not made covetous of empty boasting, stirring each other to anger, or having envy with one another.) 
