MARK.
Chapter 6.
And he went out from thence, and went into his own country; and his disciples followed him. 
And when the sabbath was come, Jesus began to teach in a synagogue. And many heard him, and wondered in his teaching (or and wondered about his teaching), and said, Of whence cometh to this man all these things? and what is the wisdom that is given to him, and such virtues, (or such works of power, or such miracles), which be made by his hands? 
Whether this is not a carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James and of Joseph and of Judas and of Simon? whether his sisters be not here with us? And they were offended in him, (or And they were offended by him, or they were contemptuous of him). 
And Jesus said to them, That a prophet is not without honour, but in his own country, and among his kin, and in his house. (And Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honour, except in his own hometown, and among his kin, and his family.) 
And he might not do there any virtue, save that he healed a few sick men, laying on them his hands. (And he could not do any work of power or miracle there, except that he healed a few sick men, laying his hands on them.) 
And he wondered for the unbelief of them. And he went about (the) castles on each side, and taught. (And he wondered at their unbelief. And he went about the villages on each side, and taught.) 
And he called together (the) twelve, and began to send them by two together; and gave to them power of unclean spirits (or and gave them power over unclean spirits), 
and commanded (to) them, that they should not take anything in the way, (or that they should not take anything on the way, or for the journey), but a staff or a rod only, not a scrip, nor bread, neither money in the girdle, 
but shod with sandals, and that they should not be clothed with two coats. 
And he said to them, Whither ever ye enter into an house, dwell ye there, till ye go out from thence. 
And whoever receive you not, nor hear you, go ye out from thence, and shake away the powder from your feet, into witnessing to them. (And whoever will not receive you, or listen to you, go ye out from there, and shake off the dust from your feet, as a testimony against them.) 
And they went forth, and preached, that men should do penance (or that men should repent). 
And they casted out many fiends (or And they threw out many devils and demons), and anointed with oil many sick men, and they were healed. 
And king Herod heard, for his name was made open, and he said, That John (the) Baptist hath risen again from death, and therefore virtues work in him. (And King Herod heard about this, for Jesus’ fame had spread far and wide, and he said, John the Baptist hath risen again from the dead, and so works of power, or miracles, work in him.) 
Others said, That it is Elias (or He is Elijah); but others said, That it is a prophet, as one of the prophets. 
And when this thing was heard, Herod said, This is John, whom I have beheaded, he is risen again from death (or he hath risen from the dead). 
For that Herod sent (for), and held John, and bound him into prison, for Herodias, the wife of Philip, his brother; for he had wedded her. 
For John said to Herod, It is not leaveful to thee (or It is not lawful for thee), to have the wife of thy brother. 
And Herodias laid ambush to him, and would slay him, and might not. (And Herodias laid ambush for him, and wanted to kill him, but could find no opportunity to do so.) 
And Herod dreaded John, and knew him a just man and holy, and kept him, (or And Herod feared John, and knew him to be a just and holy man, and kept him in custody, or And Herod revered John, and knew him to be a just and holy man, and kept him safe). And Herod heard him, and he did many things, and gladly heard him. 
And when a covenable day was fallen, Herod in his birthday made a supper to the princes, and tribunes, and to the greatest of Galilee. (And when an opportune day had fallen, Herod held a supper on his birthday for the leaders, or the officials, and the tribunes, and for the greatest of Galilee.) 
And when the daughter of that Herodias was come in, and danced, and pleased to Herod or and pleased Herod, and also to (the) men that sat at the meat (or and also the men who sat at the meal), the king said to the damsel, Ask thou of me what thou wilt, and I shall give (it) to thee. 
And he swore to her, That whatever thou ask, I shall give (it) to thee, though it be(even) half of my kingdom. 
And when she had gone out, she said to her mother, What shall I ask (for)? And she said, The head of John the Baptist. 
And when she was come in anon (or at once) with haste to the king, she asked, and said, I will that anon, (or I desire, or I want, at once), (that) thou give to me in a dish the head of John (the) Baptist. 
And the king was sorry for the oath, and for (the) men that sat together at the meat, he would not make her sorry or heavy; (And the king was sorry for the promise that he had made, or for the oath that he had taken, but because of the men who sat there with him at the meal, he would not make her grieved or disappointed;) 
but he sent a man-queller and commanded, that John’s head were brought in a dish. And (so) he beheaded him in the prison, 
and brought his head in a dish, and gave it to the damsel, and the damsel gave it to her mother. 
And when this thing was heard, his disciples came, and took his body, and laid it in a burial, (or and laid it in a tomb, or in a grave). 
And the apostles came together to Jesus, and told to him all (the) things, that they had done, and taught. 
And he said to them, Come ye by yourselves into a desert place; and rest ye a little. For there were many that came, and went again, and they had not space for to eat (or and they had no time even to eat). 
And they went into a boat, and went into a desert place by themselves. 
And they saw them go away (or And the people saw them go away), and many knew, and they went afoot from all (the) cities, and ran together thither, and came before them. 
And Jesus went out, and saw much people, and had ruth or mercy on them, (or and had compassion for them), for they were as sheep not having a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things. 
And when it was late in the day, his disciples came to him, and said, This is a desert place, and the time is now passed; 
let them go into the next towns and villages, to buy them(selves) meat to eat (or to buy themselves some food to eat). 
And he answered, and said to them, Give ye (something) to them for to eat. And they said to him, Go we, and buy we loaves with two hundred pence, and (then) we shall give (something) to them for to eat. 
And he saith to them, How many loaves have ye? Go ye, and see. And when they had known, they say, Five, and two fishes. 
And he commanded to them, that they should make all men sit to meat by companies (or that they should make everyone to sit down for the meal in groups), on the green hay. 
And they sat down by parts or (in) parties, by hundreds, and by fifties. 
And when he had taken the five loaves, and two fishes, he beheld into heaven, and blessed (or and gave thanks), and brake the loaves, and gave (them) to his disciples, (so) that they should set (them) before them. And he parted (the) two fishes to all (or And he divided the two fish among all the people); 
and all ate, and were full-filled. and all ate, and were fulfilled.(and all ate, and were filled full.) 
And they took (up) the remnants of broken meats, twelve coffins full, and of the fishes. (And they gathered up the remaining pieces of food, that is, of the bread and the fish, twelve baskets full.) 
And they that ate, were five thousand of men. 
And anon he made his disciples to go up into a boat, to pass before him over the sea to Bethsaida, while he left the people. (And at once he made his disciples to go up into a boat, to cross over the lake to Bethsaida ahead of him, while he let the people go, or while he dismissed the people.) 
And when he had left them, he went into an high hill, to pray. (And when he had dismissed them, or had let them go, he went up onto a high hill, or a mountain, to pray.) 
And when it was even(ing), the boat was in the middle or in the midst of the sea, and he alone in the land (or and he was alone on the land); 
and he saw them travailing in rowing; for the wind was contrary to them. And about the fourth waking of the night, he wandering on the sea, came to them, and would pass (by) them. (and he saw them labouring, or struggling, with the rowing; for the wind was contrary to them. And about the fourth watch of the night, he came to them, walking on the lake, and would pass by them.) 
And as they saw him wandering on the sea (or And as they saw him walking on the lake), they guessed that it were a phantom, and cried out; 
for (they) all saw him, and they were afraid, or and they were troubled, or disturbed. And anon he spake with them, and said to them, Trust ye, I am (he); do not ye dread, (or And at once he spoke with them, and said to them, Have trust, it is me; do not fear). 
And he came up to them into the boat, and the wind ceased. And they wondered more within themselves; 
for they understood not of the loaves; for their heart was blinded. 
And when they were passed over the sea (or And when they had crossed over the lake), they came into the land of Gennesaret, and setted to land. 
And when they were gone out of the boat, anon (or at once) they knew him. 
And they ran through all that country(side), and began to bring sick men in beds on each side, where they heard that he was. 
And whither ever he entered into villages, or into towns, or into cities, they set sick men in (the) streets, and prayed him, that they should touch namely the hem of his cloth; and how(ever) many that touched him, were made safe. (And wherever he entered into villages, or into towns, or into cities, they put their sick people in the streets, and beseeched him, that they could merely touch the hem of his cloak; and however many did touch him, all of them were saved, or were healed.) 
