APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 7.
After these things I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, (so) that they blew not on the earth, neither on the sea, neither on any tree. 
And I saw another angel ascending up from the rising of the sun, that had a sign of the living God. And he cried with a great voice to the four angels, to which it was given to annoy the earth, and the sea, (And I saw another angel going up from the rising of the sun, who had the seal of the living God. And he cried with a loud voice to the four angels, to whom it was given to do great harm to the earth, and to the sea,) 
and said, Do not ye annoy the earth, and the sea, neither to trees, till we mark the servants of our God in the foreheads of them. (and said, Do not harm the earth, or the sea, or the trees, until we mark the servants of our God with a seal upon their foreheads.) 
And I heard the number of men that were marked, an hundred thousand and four and forty thousand marked, of every lineage of the sons of Israel; (And I heard that the number of men who were sealed, were a hundred and forty-four thousand, from every tribe of the Israelites;) 
of the lineage of Juda (or from the tribe of Judah), twelve thousand marked; of the lineage of Reuben, twelve thousand marked; of the lineage of Gad, twelve thousand marked; 
of the lineage of Aser, twelve thousand marked; of the lineage of Nephthalim, twelve thousand marked; of the lineage of Manasses, twelve thousand marked; 
of the lineage of Simeon, twelve thousand marked; of the lineage of Levi, twelve thousand marked; of the lineage of Issachar, twelve thousand marked; 
of the lineage of Zabulon (or from the tribe of Zebulon), twelve thousand marked; of the lineage of Joseph, twelve thousand marked; of the lineage of Benjamin, twelve thousand marked. 
After these things I saw a great people, whom no man might number, of all folks, and lineages (or tribes), and peoples, and languages or and tongues, standing before the throne, in the sight of the lamb; and they were clothed with white stoles, and palms were in the hands of them. 
And they cried with a great voice, and said, Health to our God, that sitteth on the throne, and to the lamb. (And they cried with loud voices, and said, Salvation cometh from our God, who sitteth on the throne, and from the Lamb./And they cried with loud voices, and said, Victory to our God, who sitteth on the throne, and to the Lamb.) 
And all the angels stood all about the throne, and of the elder men, and the four beasts. And they fell down in the sight of the throne, on their faces, and worshipped God, (And all the angels stood all around the throne, and the elders, and the four creatures. And they fell down before the throne, on their faces, and worshipped God,) 
and said, Amen! blessing, and clearness, and wisdom, and doing of thankings, and honour, and virtue, and strength to our God, into worlds of worlds. Amen. (and said, Amen! blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and giving thanks, and honour, and power, and strength to our God, forever and ever. Amen.) 
And one of the elder men answered, and said to me, Who be these, that be clothed with white stoles? and from whence came they? (And one of the elders asked me, Who be these, who be clothed with white stoles? and where do they come from?) 
And I said to him, My lord, thou knowest. And he said to me, These be they, that came from (the) great tribulation, and washed their stoles, and made them white in the blood of the lamb (or and made them white with the Lamb’s blood). 
Therefore they be before the throne of God, and serve to him day and night, in his temple. And he that sitteth in the throne, dwelleth on them. (And so they be before the throne of God, and serve him day and night, in his Temple. And He who sitteth on the throne, liveth among them.) 
They shall no more hunger, neither thirst, neither the sun shall fall on them, nor any heat. 
For the lamb, that is in the middle of the throne, shall govern them, and shall lead forth them to the wells of (the) waters of life or and shall lead them forth to the wells of the waters of life; and God shall wipe away each tear from the eyes of them. (For the Lamb, who is in the midst of the throne, shall govern them, and shall lead them forth to the springs of the water of life; and God shall wipe away every tear from their eyes.) 
