ADDITIONS TO ESTHER.
Chapter 15.
Forsooth in the third day she putted off the clothes of her adorning (or of her mourning), and was compassed with her glory. 
And when she shined in the king’s (or in the royal) clothing, and had inwardly called the Governor of all things and the Saviour God, she took two servantesses, 
and soothly she leaned on one, as not sustaining to bear her body, for delights and full great tenderness; and upon the one forsooth she leaned, as for delights and full much tenderness not suffering to bear her own body; 
but the other servantess pursued the lady, and bare up her clothes trailing down upon the earth (or upon the ground). the tother forsooth of the damsels followed the lady, bearing up the clothes flowing down into the earth. 
Soothly she was beshed or thrush-ed with (the) colour of roses in the cheer, or in (or on) her face, or And Esther in her face was coloured with rose colours, and with her pleasant and shining or bright eyes she covered her sorrowful soul, that was drawn together with full much dread. 
Therefore she entered through all the doors by order, and she stood against (or before) the king, where he sat upon the seat of his realm, and was clothed in the king’s clothes, and shined in gold and precious stones, and he was dreadful in sight. Then she gone in all the doors by order, stood against (or before) the king, where he sat upon the see (or the throne) of his reign, clothed with king’s clothes, and shining with gold and precious stones; and he was fearful in sight. 
And when he had raised up his face, and had showed the madness, or austereness, of his heart with burning eyes, the queen felled or fell down before him; and when her colour was changed into paleness, she rested her head bowed down upon her handmaid. 
And God turned the spirit of the king into mildness, and he hast(en)ed, and dreaded, and skipped or started out of the seat, or and the king hast(en)-ing, and dreading, rose up anon of (or at once from) his seat; and he sustain-ed her, or he held up the queen with his arms, till she came again to herself; and he spake fair to her by these words, 
Esther, what grief hast thou? I am thy brother; do not thou dread, 
thou shalt not die, for this coming to me without (my) calling; for this law is not made for thee, but for all (other)men. Therefore nigh thou hither, (or And so approach thou to me), or Come hither then, 
and touch the sceptre, that is, the king’s rod. And when she was still, he took the golden rod, and putted (it) on her neck; and touch the king’s rod. And when she held her peace, he took the king’s rod, and put (it) upon her neck; 
and he kissed her, and said, Why speakest thou not to me? 
And she answered, Lord, I saw thee as an angel of God, and mine heart was troubled for the dread of thy glory; The which answered, I saw thee, lord, as the angel of God, and mine heart is disturbed for dread of thy glory; 
for, lord, thou art full wonderful, and thy face is full of graces. 
And when she spake, again she felled down in a swoon, and was al-most dead. And when she spake, again she fell down, and utterly swooned. 
Soothly the king was troubled, and all his servants comforted her. 
