1ST KINGS.
Chapter 5.
Also Hiram, king of Tyre, sent his servants to Solomon; for he heard that they had anointed him king for his father (or for he had heard that they had anointed him king in place of his father); for Hiram was (a) friend of David in all time. 
And also Solomon sent to Hiram, and said, 
Thou knowest the will of David, my father, and for he might not build an house to the name of his God, (or Thou knowest the desire of my father David, and that he could not build a house in honour of the name of the Lord his God), for the battles nighing by compass, till the Lord gave them under the step of his feet. 
But now my Lord God hath given rest to me by compass, and none adversary is, neither evil assailing; (But now the Lord my God hath given peace to me all around, and there is no adversary, nor evil, assailing me;) 
wherefore I think to build a temple to the name of my Lord God, as God spake to David, my father, and said, Thy son, whom I shall give to thee for thee upon thy throne, he shall build an house to my name. (and so I shall build a Temple in honour of the name of the Lord my God, as God spoke to my father David, and said, Thy son, whom I shall put on thy throne in thy place, he shall build a House in honour of my name.) 
Therefore command thou, that thy servants hew down to me cedars of the Lebanon, (or And so command thou, that thy servants cut down cedars in Lebanon for me); and my servants (shall) be with thy servants; and I shall give to thee the meed of thy servants, whatever thou shalt ask; for thou knowest, that in my people (there) is not a man that can hew trees, as (well as the) Sidonians can (do it)/as (well as) the men of Sidon. 
Therefore when Hiram had heard the words of Solomon, he was full glad, and said, Blessed be the Lord God today, that hath given to David the son most wise upon this people full much. (And so when Hiram had heard Solomon’s words, he was very glad, and said, Blessed be the Lord God today, who hath given David a most wise son to rule over this great people.) 
And Hiram sent to Solomon, and said, I have heard whatever things thou sentest to me (for); I shall do all thy will, in trees of cedars, and in trees of box, (or and I shall provide all the cedar, and fir, or pine, trees, that thou needeth, or wanteth). 
My servants shall put down those trees from the Lebanon to the sea, and I shall array those trees in ships in the sea, unto the place that thou shalt signify to me; and I shall direct those there, that thou take those; and thou shalt give necessaries to me, that meat be given to mine house. (My servants shall bring down that wood from Lebanon to the sea, and I shall convey it in sea-worthy ships, to the place that thou shalt signify to me; and I shall send them there, so that thou can have them; and thou shalt give necessities to me, so that food shall be given to all my household.) 
And so Hiram gave to Solomon cedar trees, and box trees, by all his will; (And so Hiram gave Solomon all the cedar, and fir, or pine, trees, that he needed, or wanted;) 
and Solomon gave to Hiram twenty thousand cors of wheat, into meat to his house, and twenty cors of purest oil; Solomon gave these things to Hiram by all years. (and Solomon gave to Hiram twenty thousand cors of wheat, for food for his household, and twenty cors of purest oil; Solomon gave these things to Hiram annually.) 
Also the Lord gave wisdom to Solomon, as he spake to him; and peace was betwixt Hiram and Solomon, and both they smote together (a) bond of peace. (And the Lord gave wisdom to Solomon, as he said he would; and there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and they struck a covenant together.) 
And king Solomon chose workmen (out) of all Israel; and the sum was thirty thousand of men. 
And Solomon sent them into the Lebanon, ten thousand by each month by whiles, so that in two months by whiles they were in their houses; and Adoniram was on such a sum. (And Solomon sent them to Lebanon, ten thousand each month by turn, and then for two months by turn, they went back to their own houses; and Adoniram was in charge of them all.) 
And so seventy thousand of them, that bare burdens, were to Solomon, and fourscore thousand of masons in the hill(s), (And so working for Solomon were seventy thousand men who carried loads, and fourscore thousand stonemasons in the hills,) 
without the sovereigns, that were masters of all the works, by the number of three thousand and three hundred, commanding to the people, and to them that made work. (besides the sovereigns, or the foremen, who were masters over all the work, three thousand and three hundred in number, commanding the people who did the work.) 
And the king commanded, that they should take great stones, and precious stones/and heavy stones, into the foundament of the temple, (And the king commanded, that they should cut great fine stones or great heavy stones, for the foundation of the Temple,) 
and that they should make those square; which stones the masons of Solomon and the masons of Hiram hewed. And the men of Byblos made ready the trees and stones, to the house to be builded, (or And the men of Byblos prepared the wood and the stones, needed to build the Temple). 
