JUDITH.
Chapter 14.
Forsooth Judith said to all the people, Brethren, hear ye; hang ye up this head upon your walls. 
And it shall be, when the sun riseth, each man take his armours, or his arms, (or weapons), and go ye out with fierceness, not that ye go all down beneath the hill, but as men making (an) assault. 
And then it shall be need(ed), that the spyers or the spies of the land flee to raise up their prince to battle. 
And when the dukes of them shall run together to the tabernacle of Holofernes, and find him headless or beheaded, wallowed, or wrapped, (or rolled up), in his (own) blood, dread shall fall down upon them. 
And when ye know that they flee, go ye securely after them, for God shall all-break them or tread them under your feet. 
Then Achior saw the virtue that God of Israel had done, and he forsook the custom of heathenness, and he believed to (or in) God; and he cir-cumcised the flesh of his rod, and he was put (or was joined) to the people of Israel, and all the after-coming of his kin till into this day, or unto this time. 
Forsooth anon (or at once) as the day rose, they hanged the head of Holofernes on the wall; and each man took his armours, (or his arms, or weapons), and they went out with great noise and yelling. 
Which thing the spyers or the spies saw, and they ran to the tabernacle of Holofernes. 
And they, that were in the taber-nacle, came, and made noise before the entering of the bed-(place)or the in-coming of the privy chamberof Holofernes, and they imagined by craft(y) unrestfulness for cause of up-raising him, that Holofernes should awake not (because) of the raisers, but (because) of the noise of(the) sounders. 
For no man was hardy, (or bold enough), to open the tabernacle of the virtue, that is, of the prince of the chivalry (or cavalry), of (the) Assyrians by knocking, either by entering. 
But when his dukes, and his tribunes or the leaders of thousands, and all the greater men of the host of the king of Assyria were come, they said to the chamberlains, 
Enter ye, and raise ye him up; for mice be gone out of the caves, and they dare (to) move us or to call forth us to battle. 
Then Bagoas entered into his closet or into his privy chamber, and he stood before the curtain of his bed, and he made beating together (or clapping) with his hands; for he supposed him to sleep with Judith. 
But when by the wit, or listening, of his ears he perceived not any stirring or moving of (or by) Holo-fernes lying there, he came nigh and nighed to the curtain, and he drew it up, or he raised it, and he saw the dead body of Holofernes without (his) head, defouled or rotting in his (own) blood, and lying upon the earth (or the ground), and he cried out with (a) great (or a loud) voice with weeping, and rent his clothes. 
And Bagoas entered into the tabernacle of Judith, and found not her or (and) found her not, and anon (or at once) he went out to the people, 
and said, An Hebrew woman hath made confusion in the house of king Nebuchadnezzar; for lo! Holofernes lieth in the earth (or on the ground), and his head is not with him. 
And when the princes of the virtue, or the power, of (the) Assyrians had heard this thing, all they rent their clothes, and unsufferable or intolerable dread and trembling felled down upon them, and their souls were troubled greatly. 
And (an) uncomparable cry was made by the middle of their tents or throughout their tents. 
