EPHESIANS.
Chapter 2.
And when ye were dead in your guilts and sins, 
in which ye wandered sometime, (or in which ye walked, or ye went some time ago), after the course of this world, after the prince of the power of this air, of the spirit that worketh now into the sons of unbelief; 
in which also we all lived sometime in the desires of our flesh, doing the wills of the flesh and of the thoughts (or doing the desires of the flesh and of the thoughts, or of the mind), and we were by kind (or by nature) the sons of wrath, as other men; 
but God, that is rich in mercy, for his full much charity in which he loved us, (but God, who is rich in mercy, for his very great love with which he loved us,) 
yea, when we were dead in (our) sins, quickened us together in Christ (or made us alive together with the Messiah), by whose grace ye be saved, 
and again-raised together, and made together to sit in heavenly things in Christ Jesus; (and ye be raised up, and allowed to sit in heavenly things with the Messiah Jesus;) 
that he should show in the worlds above coming the plenteous riches of his grace in goodness on us in Christ Jesus. (so that he could show in the world to come the plentiful riches of his grace in goodness for us in the Messiah Jesus.) 
For by grace ye be saved by faith, and this not of you (or and this is not by your own doing); for it is the gift of God, 
not of works, that no man have glory. (and not by works, so that no one can boast.) 
For we be the making of him, made of nought in Christ Jesus, in good works, (or made out of nothing in the Messiah Jesus, for good works), which God hath ordained, that we go in those works. 
For which thing be ye mindful that sometime ye were heathen in (the) flesh, which were said prepuce (or who were called the uncircumcision), from that that is said (the) circumcision made by hand in (the) flesh; (For which thing remember that sometime ago ye were Gentiles in the flesh, ye who were called the uncircumcised, by those who be called the circumcised, which is made in the flesh by our hands;) 
and ye were in that time without Christ, aliened or strangers from the living (community) of Israel, and guests of the testaments, not having (any) hope of (the) promise, and without God in this world. (and at that time ye were without the Messiah, alienated from, or strangers to, the living community of Israel, and outside of the covenants, not having any hope of the Promise, and without God in this world.) 
But now in Christ Jesus ye that were sometime far, be made nigh in the blood of Christ. (But now in the Messiah Jesus ye who were sometime far off, be made near by the blood of the Messiah.) 
For he is our peace, that made both one, and unbinding the middle wall of a wall without mortar, 
enmities in his flesh; and voided the law of commandments by dooms (or and voided the Law with its commandments and ordinances), (so) that he make two in himself into a new man, making peace, 
to reconcile both in one body to God by the cross, slaying the enmities in himself. 
And he coming preached peace to you that were far, and peace to them that were nigh; (And he coming preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near;) 
for by him we both have nigh coming in one Spirit to the Father. 
Therefore now ye be not guests and strangers, but ye be citizens of saints, and the household members of God; (And so now ye be not guests and strangers, but ye be citizens along with God’s people, and members of God’s household, or of God’s family.) 
above builded on the foundament of (the) apostles and of (the) prophets, upon that highest cornerstone, Christ Jesus; (built upon the foundation of the apostles and of the prophets, and the highest cornerstone is the Messiah Jesus;) 
in whom each building made waxeth into an holy temple in the Lord. 
In whom also ye be builded together into the habitation of God, in the Holy Ghost (or in the Holy Spirit). 
