HEBREWS.
Chapter 1.
God, that spake sometime by prophets in many manners to our fathers, 
at the last in these days he hath spoken to us by the Son; whom he hath ordained (the) heir of all things, and by whom he made the worlds. 
Which when also he is the brightness of glory, and the figure of his substance, and beareth all things by (the) word of his virtue, he maketh purgation of sins, and sitteth on the right half of the majesty in heavens; (Who when he is also the brightness of glory, and the example, or the image, of his substance, and beareth all things by the word of his power, he maketh purgation of sins, and sitteth at the right hand, or on the right side, of the Majesty in heaven;) 
and so much is made better than angels, by how much he hath inherited a more diverse name before them. (and is made so much better than the angels, for he hath inherited a more excellent name than they have.) 
For to which of the angels said God any time, Thou art my Son, I have (en)gendered thee today? And again, I shall be to him into a Father, and he shall be to me into a Son? (For to which of the angels did God say at any time, Thou art my Son, I have begotten thee today? And again, I shall be like a Father to him, and he shall be like a Son to me?) 
And when again he bringeth in the first begotten Son into the world, he saith, And all the angels of God worship him. 
But he saith to (the) angels, He that maketh his angels spirits (or wind), and his ministers (a) flame of fire. 
But to the Son he saith, God, thy throne is into the world of world(s), (or thy kingdom, or thy rule, is forever and ever); a rod of equity is the rod of thy realm; 
thou hast loved rightwiseness, and hatedest wickedness; therefore the God or therefore God, thy God, anointed thee with (the) oil of joy, more than thy fellows. 
And, Thou, Lord, in the beginning foundedest the earth, and (the) heavens be (the) works of thine hands; 
they shall perish, but thou shalt perfectly dwell; and all shall wax old as a cloth (or and all things shall grow old like a cloak), 
and thou shalt change them as a cloth (or and thou shalt change them like a cloak), and they shall be changed. But thou art the same thyself, and thy years shall not fail. 
But to which of the angels said God at any time, Sit thou on my right half, till I put thine enemies a stool of thy feet? (But to which of the angels did God say at any time, Sit thou at my right hand, or on my right side, until I make thine enemies thy footstool?) 
Whether they all be not serving spirits, sent to serve for them that take the heritage of health? (Be they not all spirits that serve, yea, sent to serve those who receive the inheritance of salvation?) 
