MATTHEW.
Chapter 6.
Take heed, that ye do not your rightwiseness before men, to be seen of them, else ye shall have no meed at your Father that is in heavens. (Take heed, that ye do not do your righteousness before men, to be seen by them, or else ye shall have no reward with your Father, who is in heaven.) 
Therefore when thou doest alms, do not thou trumpet before thee, as (the) hypocrites do in (the) synagogues and (in the) streets, that they be worshipped of men; soothly I say to you, they have received their meed. (And so when thou givest charity, do not thou make a noise or a public show about it, like the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so that they find honour with men; I tell you the truth, they have received their reward.) 
But when thou doest alms, know not thy left hand what thy right hand doeth, 
that thine alms be in huddles, and thy Father that seeth in huddles, shall requite to thee or shall yield to thee. (so that thy charity be given in secret, and thy Father who seeth in secret, shall reward thee.) 
And when ye pray, ye shall not be as (the) hypocrites, that love to pray standing in (the) synagogues and in(the) corners of (the) streets, to be seen of men, or that they be seen of men, (or so that they be seen by men); truly I say to you, they have received their meed, (or I tell you the truth, they have received their reward). 
But when thou shalt pray, enter into thy couch (or enter into thy bedchamber), and when the door is shut, pray (to) thy Father in huddles, (or pray to thy Father in secret, or in private), and thy Father that seeth in huddles, shall yield to thee. 
But in praying do not ye speak much, as heathen men do (or as the Gentiles do), for they guess that they be heard in their much speech. 
Therefore do not ye be made like to them, for your Father knoweth what is needful to you, before that ye ask him. 
And thus ye shall pray, Our Father that art in heavens (or Our Father who art in heaven), hallowed be thy name; 
thy kingdom come to (or thy kingdom come); be thy will done in earth as it is in heaven or thy will be done as in heaven and in earth; 
give to us this day our each day’s bread; 
and forgive to us our debts, as we forgive to our debtors; 
and lead us not into temptation (or and do not bring us to the test), but deliver us from evil. Amen. 
For if ye forgive to men their sins, your heavenly Father shall forgive to you your trespasses or your sins. 
Soothly if ye forgive not to men the sins of them, neither your Father shall forgive to you your sins. 
But when ye fast, do not ye be made as (the) hypocrites (be, looking) sorrowful, for they deface themselves, or they put their faces out of kindly (or natural) terms, to seem fasting to men; truly I say to you, they have received their meed, (or I tell you the truth, they have received their reward). 
But when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face, 
that thou be not seen fasting to men, but (only) to thy Father that is in huddles, (or so that thou not be seen to be fasting by men, but only by thy Father who is in secret), and thy Father that seeth in privy, or in huddles, (or in secret), shall yield to thee. 
Do not ye treasure to you(rselves) treasures here in (or on the) earth, where rust and moth destroyeth (it), and where thieves delve (it) out, and steal (it), (or and where thieves dig it up, and steal it); 
but gather ye to you(rselves) treasures in heaven, where neither rust nor moth destroyeth (it), and where thieves delve not (it) out, nor steal (it), (or and where thieves cannot dig it up, nor can steal it). 
For where thy treasure is, there also thine heart is. 
The lantern of thy body is thine eye; if thine eye be simple, (or if thine eye is single, or if it is sound), all thy body shall be light-full; 
but if thine eye be wayward, all thy body shall be dark-full. If then the light that is in thee be darknesses, how great shall those darknesses be? 
No man may serve two lords, for either he shall hate the one, and love the tother; either he shall sustain the one, and despise the other. Ye may not serve God and riches (or Ye cannot serve God and money, or wealth). 
Therefore I say to you, that ye be not busy to your life, what ye shall eat; nor to your body, with what ye shall be clothed. Whether life is not more than meat, and the body more than the cloth? (And so I tell you, do not be concerned about your life, what ye shall eat; nor about your body, with what ye shall be clothed. Is not life more than food, and the body more than a cloak?) 
Behold ye the fowls of the air (or Look at the birds of the air), for they sow not, neither reap, neither gather into barns; and your Father of heaven feedeth them. Whether ye be not more worthy than they? 
But who of you (by) thinking may put or may add to his stature one cubit? 
And of clothing what be ye busy? Behold the lilies of the field, how they wax. They travail not, neither they spin; (And why be concerned about clothing? Look at the lilies of the field, how they grow. They do not labour, nor do they spin;) 
and I say to you, that Solomon in all his glory was not covered as one of these. 
And if God clotheth thus the hay of the field, that today is, and tomorrow is cast into an oven or is sent into the furnace, (then) how much more you of little faith? 
Therefore do not ye be busy (or And so do not be concerned), saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, With what thing shall we be covered? 
For heathen men seek all these things; and your Father knoweth, that ye have need to all these things. (For the Gentiles seek all these things; and your Father knoweth, that ye have need of all these things.) 
Therefore seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his rightwiseness, and all these things shall be cast to you. (And so seek first the Kingdom of God, and his righteousness, and all these other things shall be thrown, or shall come, unto you.) 
Therefore do not ye be busy into the morrow, for the morrow shall be busy (un)to itself; for it sufficeth to the day his own malice. (And so do not be concerned about tomorrow, for tomorrow shall have its own concerns; for each day sufficeth with its own malice, or its own problems.) 
