PSALMS.
Chapter 86.
The prayer of David. (A prayer by David.) Lord, bow (down) thine ear, and hear me; for I am needy and poor. 
Keep thou my life, for I am holy; my God, make thou safe thy servant hoping in thee. (Keep thou my life safe, for I am holy; my God, save thou thy servant, who trusteth in thee.) 
Lord, have thou mercy on me, for I cried all day (long) to thee; 
make thou glad the soul of thy servant; for why, Lord, I have raised my soul to thee. (make glad thy servant’s soul; for Lord, I have raised up my soul to thee.) 
For thou, Lord, art sweet and mild; and of much mercy to all men inwardly calling thee. (For thou, Lord, art good and forgiving; and hath great love for all who call to thee or and hath great mercy for all who cry to thee.) 
Lord, perceive thou my prayer with ears; and give thou attention to the voice of my beseeching. (Lord, listen thou to my prayer; and give attention to the words of my plea.) 
In the day of my tribulation I cried to thee; for thou heardest me. (In my time of trouble, I cried to thee; for thou shalt answer me.) 
Lord, none among gods is like thee; and none is even to thy works. (Lord, there is no god like thee; and there be no works like thy works or and there be no works equal to thy works.) 
Lord, all folks, whichever thou madest, shall come, and worship before thee; and they shall glorify thy name. (Lord, all the nations, which thou hast made, shall come, and shall worship before thee; and they shall glorify thy name.) 
For thou art full great, and making marvels, (or For thou art very great, and doing marvellous deeds); thou art God alone. 
Lord, lead thou me forth in thy way, and I shall enter in thy truth; mine heart be glad, that it dread thy name. (Lord, lead thou me forth in thy way, and I shall walk in thy truth; let my heart be glad, that I fear thy name or that I revere thy name.) 
My Lord God, I shall acknowledge to thee in all mine heart; and I shall glorify thy name into without end. (My Lord God, I shall praise thee with all my heart; and I shall glorify thy name forever.) 
For thy mercy is great on me; and thou deliveredest my soul from the lower hell. (For thy love is great towards me; and thou hast rescued my soul from the depths of Sheol, or the land of the dead, or and thou hast rescued my soul from the grave itself.) 
God, wicked men have risen upon me; and the synagogue of mighty men have sought my life; and they have not set forth thee in their sight. (God, the wicked have risen against me; and a company of mighty men have sought my life; and they have no thought of thee.) 
And thou, Lord God, doing mercy, and merciful; patient, and of much mercy, and soothfast. (But thou, Lord, art a God who giveth love, and art merciful; yea, thou art patient, and hath great love, and art faithful.) 
Behold on me, and have mercy on me, give thou the empire to thy servant; and make thou safe the son of thine handmaid. (Turn to me, and have mercy on me; give thou thy strength to thy servant, and save thou the son of thy servantess.) 
Make thou with me a sign in(to) good, that they see, that hate me, and be ashamed, (or Show thou me a sign of thy goodness, so that those who hate me can see it, and be ashamed); (yea), for thou, Lord, hast helped me or hast holpen me, and hast comforted me. 
