1ST TIMOTHY.
Chapter 2.
Therefore I beseech first of all things, that beseechings, prayers, askings, (and) doing of thankings, (or and thanksgiving, or the giving of thanks), be made for all men, 
for kings and all that be set in highness, (so) that we (can) lead a quiet and a peaceable life, in all piety and chastity. 
For this thing is good and accepted before God, our Saviour, (For this is something good and acceptable before God, our Saviour,) 
that will that all men be made safe (or who desireth that all men be saved), and that they come to the knowing of (the) truth. 
For one God and one mediator is of God and of men, a man Christ Jesus, (For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, a man, the Messiah Jesus,) 
that gave himself (as a) redemption for all men. Whose witnessing is confirmed in his times; (who gave himself for the redemption of all men. Whose testimony was confirmed in his time or at his time;) 
in which I am set a preacher and an apostle. For I say (the) truth in Christ Jesus, and I lie not, that am a teacher of heathen men in faith and in truth. (in whom I am put or am made a preacher and an apostle. For I tell the truth in the Messiah Jesus, and I do not lie, (I who am) a teacher of the Gentiles about faith and about truth, or (I who am) a teacher of the Gentiles in the true faith.) 
Therefore I will (or And so I desire), that men pray in all place(s), lifting up clean hands without wrath and strife or disputing. 
Also women in suitable habit, with shamefastness and soberness arraying themselves, not in wreathed hairs, either in gold, or pearls, or precious cloth (or expensive clothing); 
but that that becometh women, promising piety by good works. 
A woman learn she in silence, with all subjection. 
But I suffer not a woman to teach, neither to have lordship on the husband or on the man, but to be in silence. (But I do not allow a woman to teach, or to have lordship over a man, but rather, to be silent or to be quiet.) 
For Adam was first formed, afterward Eve; 
and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived, in (the) breaking of the law or in prevarication. 
But she shall be saved by (the) generation of children, if she dwell perfectly in faith, and love, and holiness, with soberness. 
