DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 17.
And when they had passed by Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where was a synagogue of (the) Jews. 
And by custom Paul entered to them, and by three sabbaths he declared to them of the scriptures, (And as was his custom, Paul went to them, and on three Sabbaths he declared the Scriptures to them,) 
and opened, and showed that it behooved Christ to suffer, and rise again from death, or to suffer, and rise again from (the) dead, and that this is Jesus Christ, whom I tell to you. (and expounded upon them, and showed that it behooved the Messiah to suffer, and to rise again from the dead, and that this is Jesus Christ, about whom I tell you.) 
And some of them believed, and were joined to Paul and to Silas; and a great multitude of heathen men worshipped God, and noble women not a few. 
But the Jews had envy, and took of (or from) the common people some evil men, and when they had made a company, they moved the city. And they came to Jason’s house, and sought to bring them forth among the people (or out to the people). 
And when they found them not, they drew Jason and some brethren to the princes of the city, and cried, That these it be, that moved the world, and hither they came, (And when they found them not, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers to the leaders of the city, and cried, These it be, who stirred up the world, and now they have come here,) 
whom Jason received. And these all do against the commandments of the emperor or against the commandments of Caesar, and say, that Jesus is another king. 
And they moved the people, and the princes of the city, hearing these things. (And they stirred up the people, and the leaders of the city, when they heard these things.) 
And when satisfaction was taken of Jason, and of others, they let Paul and Silas go. 
And anon by night, (the) brethren let Paul and Silas go into Berea, or (the) brethren sent Paul and Silas into Berea, (or And at once in the night, the brothers sent Paul and Silas to Berea). And when they came thither, they entered into the synagogue of the Jews. 
But these were the worthier or the nobler of them that be at Thessalonica, which received the word with all desire, each day seeking the scriptures, if these things had them so. 
And many of them believed, and of heathen women honest and men not a few (or and more than a few honourable heathen men and women). And soothly many of them believed, and of honest heathen women and men not (a) few. 
But when the Jews in Thessalonica had known, that also at Berea the word of God was preached of Paul (or that also at Berea the word of God was preached by Paul), they came thither, moving and disturbing or distroubling the multitude. 
And then anon (the) brethren delivered or dismissed Paul, that he should go to the sea; but Silas and Timothy dwelt there. (And then at once the brothers sent off Paul, so that he could go down to the seacoast; but Silas and Timothy remained there.) 
And they that led forth Paul, led him to Athens. And when they had taken a commandment of him to Silas and Timothy (or And when they had received an order from him for Silas and Timothy), that full hieingly they should come to him, they went forth. 
And while Paul abode them at Athens (or And while Paul waited for them in Athens), his spirit was moved in him, for he saw the city given to idolatry. 
Therefore he disputed in the synagogue with the Jews, and with men that worshipped God, and in the doom place, or in the chapping, by all days to them that heard. (And so he disputed in the synagogue with the Jews, and with the men who worshipped God, and also in the city square, or at the market, every day with all those who would listen.) 
And some Epicureans, and Stoics, and philosophers disputed with him. And some said, What will this sower of words say? And others said, He seemeth to be a teller of new fiends; for he told to them (of) Jesus, and (of) the again-rising, (or for he told them about Jesus, and about the resurrection). 
And they took, and led him to Areopagus, that is, a common school, and said, May we know, what is this new doctrine, that is said of thee? 
For thou bringest in some new things to our ears; therefore we will know, what these things will be. 
For all men of Athens and comelings (or newcomers) harboured (there), gave attention to none other thing, but either to say, either to hear, some new thing. 
And Paul stood in the middle of Areopagus, and said, Men of Athens, by all things I see you as vain (or as futile) worshippers. 
For I passed (by), and saw your maumets, or your simulacra, (or and I saw your idols), and found an altar, in which was written, To the unknown God. Therefore which thing ye unknowing (or not knowing) worship, (or which ye worship in ignorance), this thing I (shall) show to you. 
God that made the world and all things that be in it, this (God), for he is (the) Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hand or made by hand, 
neither is worshipped by man’s hands, neither hath need of anything, for he giveth life to all men, and breathing, and all things; 
and made of one all the kind of men to inhabit on all the face of the earth, determining times ordained, and (the) terms of the dwelling or of the habitation of them, 
to seek God, if peradventure they feel him, either find (him), though he be not far from each of you. 
For in him we live, and move, and be. As also some of your poets said, And we be also the kind or the kin of him. 
Therefore since we be the kind or the kin of God, we shall not deem or guess that (a) godly thing is like gold, and silver, either stone, either to (the)(en)graving of craft and thought of man. 
For God despiseth the times of this uncunning, and now showeth to men, that all everywhere do penance; (For God despiseth the times of this unknowing, or this ignorance, and now showeth to all, so that everyone everywhere shall repent;) 
for that he hath ordained a day, in which he shall deem the world in equity (or on which he shall judge the world with fairness), in a man in which he ordained, and gave faith to all men, and raised him from death or raising him from (the) dead. 
And when they had heard (of) the again-rising of dead men, or Soothly when they had heard (of) the again-rising of (the) dead, (or And when they had heard of the resurrection of the dead), some scorned, and some said, We shall hear thee again of this thing. 
So Paul went out of the middle of them. (And then Paul went away from their midst.) 
But some men drew or cleaved to him, and believed. Among which Dionysius Areopagite was, and a woman, by name Damaris, and other men with them. 
