1ST TIMOTHY.
Chapter 1.
Paul, the apostle of Jesus Christ, by the commandment of God our Saviour, and of Jesus Christ our hope, 
to Timothy, beloved son in the faith, grace and mercy and (the) peace, of God the Father, and of Jesus Christ, our Lord. 
As I prayed thee, that thou shouldest dwell at Ephesus, when I went into Macedonia, that thou shouldest command to some men, that they should not teach (any) other way, 
neither give attention to fables and genealogies that be uncertain or without end, which give questions, more than edification of God, that is in the faith. 
For the end of the commandment is (the) charity of (a) clean heart, and good conscience, and of faith not feigned. (For the goal of this command is the love of a pure heart, and a good conscience, and true and sincere faith.) 
From which things some men have erred, and be turned into vain speech; 
and will to be teachers of the law (or and desire to be teachers of the Law), and understand not what things they speak, neither of what things they affirm. 
And we know that the law is good, if any man use it lawfully; 
and witting this thing, that the law is not set or is not put to a just man, but to unjust men and not subject, to wicked men and to sinners, to cursed men and defouled, to slayers of father, and slayers of mother, to manslayers (and knowing this, that the Law is not made, or it is not ordained, for a good man, but for evil men and those disobedient, for wicked men and for sinners, for cursed men and defiled men, for killers of father, and killers of mother, for manslayers) 
and lechers, to them that do lechery with men, leasing-mongers and forsworn, and if any other thing is contrary to the wholesome teaching, +and fornicators, to them that trespass with males against kind, sellers, or stealers, of men, to leasing-mongers and to forsworn men, and if any other thing is contrary to wholesome teaching,(and lechers, for those who do lechery with men, for liars and perjurers, and if any other thing is contrary to the wholesome teaching,) 
that is after the gospel of the glory of blessed God, which is betaken to me. (that is found in the Gospel or the Good News of the glory of the blessed God, or of the glorious and the blessed God, which was delivered to me.) 
I do thankings to him, that comforted me in Christ Jesus our Lord, for he guessed me faithful, and put me in ministry, (I give thanks to him, who strengthened me, yea, the Messiah Jesus our Lord, for he believed me to be faithful, and set me in service,) 
that first was a blasphemer, and a pursuer, and full of wrongs. But I have gotten the mercy of God, for I unknowing(ly) did in unbelief. (who before was a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and full of wrongs. But I have received God’s mercy, for I unknowingly acted in unbelief, or out of ignorance.) 
But the grace of our Lord over-abounded, with faith and love that is in Christ Jesus. (But the grace of our Lord was most plentiful, with the faith and love which is ours in the Messiah Jesus.) 
A true word and worthy (of) all receiving, for Christ Jesus came into this world to make sinful men safe, of which I am the first. (Here is a true word and worthy of all acceptance, that the Messiah Jesus came into this world to save sinful men, of whom I am the first or of whom I am the worst.) 
But therefore I have gotten mercy, that Christ Jesus should show in me first all patience, to the informing of them that shall believe to him into everlasting life. (And so I have received mercy, so that the Messiah Jesus could first show in me all his patience, for the informing of those who shall believe in him unto eternal life.) 
And to the king of worlds, undeadly, and invisible God alone, be honour and glory into worlds of worlds. Amen. (And to the King of all the worlds, or the eternal King, immortal, and invisible God alone, be honour and glory forever and ever. Amen.) 
I betake this commandment to thee, thou son Timothy, after the prophecies that have been heretofore in thee, that thou travail or fight in them a good travail, 
having faith and good conscience, which some men cast away, and perished about the faith. (having faith and a good conscience, which some men threw away, and perished amid their faith.) 
Of which is Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I betook to Satan (or whom I delivered unto Satan), (so) that they learn not to blaspheme. 
