1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 16.
But of the gatherings or of the collectsof money that be made into (the) saints (or Regarding the collection of money that be made for the saints or God’s people), as I have ordained in the churches of Galatia, so also do ye 
one day of the week (or the first day of the week). Each of you keep, or lay up, at himself, keeping that that pleaseth to him(self), (so) that when I come, the gatherings be not made. 
And when I shall be present, which men ye (ap)prove, I shall send them by epistles to bear your grace into Jerusalem. (And then when I shall be there, whichever men ye shall approve, I shall send them with letters to take your gift to Jerusalem.) 
That if it be worthy that also I go, they shall go with me. (And if it be worthwhile that I also go, they shall go with me.) 
But I shall come to you, when I shall pass by Macedonia; for why I shall pass by Macedonia. (But I shall come to you, when I shall pass through Macedonia; for I shall go through Macedonia.) 
But peradventure I shall dwell at you (or But perhaps I shall remain with you), or also dwell the winter (there), (so) that ye (can) lead me whither ever I shall go. 
And I will not now see you in my passing (through), or Soothly I will not now see you in (or while) passing (through), for I hope to dwell with you a while, if the Lord shall suffer, (or for I hope to remain with you for a while, if the Lord will allow it). 
But I shall dwell at Ephesus, unto Whitsuntide. 
For a great door and an open or (an) evident(one) is opened to me (or For a great door is opened to me for effective work), and (there be) many adversaries. 
And if Timothy come, see ye that he be without dread with you (or see that he be without anything to fear from you), for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I (do). 
Therefore no man despise him; but lead him forth in peace, (so) that he come to me; for I abide him with (the) brethren (or for I wait for him with the brothers). 
But, brethren, I make known to you of Apollos, that I prayed (or beseeched) him much, that he should come to you, with (some) brethren. But it was not his will to come now (or But it was not his desire to come now); but he shall come, when he shall have leisure or when it shall be able to him. 
Walk ye, and stand ye in the faith; do ye manly, and be ye comforted in the Lord, (or be brave, and be strong in the Lord), 
and be all your things done in charity. (and let everything ye do be done in love, or with love.) 
And, brethren, I beseech you, ye know the house(hold) of Stephanas, and of Fortunatus, and Achaicus, for they be the first fruits of Achaia, and into (the) ministry of (the) saints they have ordained themselves (or and they have committed themselves unto the service of God’s people); 
that also ye be subjects to such, and to each working together and travailing. 
For I have joy in the presence of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus; for they full-filled that thing that failed to you (or for they did fully what you were unable to do, because of your absence); 
for they have refreshed both my spirit and yours. Therefore know ye them, that be such manner men(or And so know and respect those who be such kind of men). 
All the churches of Asia greet you well (or All the Asian churches send you hearty greetings). Aquila and Priscilla, with their home-church, greet you much in the Lord, at the which also I am harboured. 
All (the) brethren greet you well. Greet ye well together in holy kiss. (All the brothers send you hearty greetings. Give hearty greetings to one another with a holy kiss.) 
My greeting by Paul’s hand. 
If any man loveth not our Lord Jesus Christ, be he cursed, Maranatha, that is, in the coming of the Lord, or in the day of doom. (If anyone loveth not our Lord Jesus Christ, let him be cursed on the Day of Judgement.) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
My charity be with you all in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. (My love be with you all in the Messiah Jesus our Lord. Amen.) 
