BARUCH.
Chapter 4.
This (is the) book of God’s behests or commandments, and the law which is without end. All that hold it, shall come to life. But they that have forsaken it, shall come into death. 
Jacob, be thou converted, and take thou (hold of)or catch it; go thou or walk by the way at the brightness thereof, against the light thereof. 
Give thou not thy glory to another, and thy dignity to an alien, (or to a strange, or foreign) folk. 
Israel, we be blessed; for those things that please God, be open to us or be known to us. 
The people of God, Israel worthy to be had in mind (or remembered), be thou patienter, either of better comfort. 
Ye be sold to (the) heathen men, not into perdition; but for that that ye in ire or wrath stirred God to wrath-fulness, ye be betaken to adversaries. 
For ye wrathed that God ever-lasting, that made you; and ye offered to fiends, and not to God. Forsooth ye stirred to bitterness the everlasting God, that made you; offering to devils, and not to God. 
For ye forgot him that nourished or nursed you, and ye made sorry or sorrowful your nurse, Jerusalem. 
For it saw (the) wrathfulness of God coming to you, and it said, Ye nigh coasts of Zion, hear; forsooth God hath brought great mourning to me. 
For I saw the captivity of my people, of my sons and daughters, which he that is without beginning and end or the Everlasting brought on them. 
For I nourished them with mirth; but I left them (or I let them go) with weeping and mourning. 
No man have joy on (or over) me, a widow and desolate. I am forsaken or left of (or by) many, for the sins of my sons; for they bowed away from the law of God. 
Forsooth they knew not (the) right-fulnesses of him; neither they went or walked by the ways of God’s behests (or commandments), neither by the paths of his truth they entered with rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
The nigh coasts of Zion come, and have they mind on, or bethink they (of), (or remember) the captivity of my sons and daughters, which he that is without beginning and end or the Everlasting brought on them. 
For he brought on them a folk from (a)far, an evil folk, and of another lan-guage; that reverenced not an eld or an old man, neither had mercy on children; 
and they led away the dear-worthy sons of a widow, and made a woman alone desolate of sons. 
But what may I help you? (or How can I help you?) 
For he that brought on you evils, shall deliver you from the hands of your enemies. 
Go ye, sons, go ye; for I am forsaken, or I am left alone. 
I have unclothed me of the stole, either long robe, of peace; but I have clothed me with a sackcloth of beseeching, and I shall cry to the Highest in my days. 
Sons, be ye of better comfort or be of better heart, or stabler; cry ye to the Lord, and he shall deliver you from the hand of princes, that be your enemies. 
For I hoped (for) your health without end, and joy came to me from the Holy (One) on (or for the) mercy, that shall come to you from your Saviour without beginning and end or your Saviour Everlasting. 
For I sent you out with mourning and weeping; but God shall bring or shall lead you again to me, with joy and mirth without end. 
For as the neighbouresses or the neighbours of Zion saw your captivity made of (or by) God, so they shall see and in swiftness or in haste your health of (or your deliverance from our) God, which health (or deliverance) shall come to you from above, with great honour and everlasting shining. 
Sons, suffer ye patiently (the) ire or the wrath that came on you; for thine enemy pursued thee, but thou shalt see soon the perdition of him or soon thou shalt see the perdition of him, and thou shalt ascend (or go) upon the necks of him. 
My delicate men went (in) sharp ways; for they as a flock that is ravished were led (away) of (or by the) enemies. My delicates, or nourished in delights, walked sharp ways; soothly they were led as a flock ravished with enemies. 
Sons, be ye patienter or of evener heart, or stabler, and cry ye a far to the Lord; for why your mind shall be of (or on) him that leadeth you. 
For as your wit was, that ye erred from God, ye shall convert again, and shall seek him ten times so much (the more). 
For he that brought in evils to you, shall bring again everlasting mirth to you with your health (or your deliverance). 
Jerusalem, be thou of better com-fort; for he that named thee, exciteth thee. Jerusalem, be thou more stable, or of better heart; soothly he that named thee, admonisheth thee. 
They that travailed thee, shall perish guilty; and they that thanked, or joyed, in (or at) thy falling, shall be punished. 
The Cities to which thy sons served, shall be punished, and that city that took thy sons, shall be punished. 
For as Babylon made joy in thy hurling down or in thy falling, and was glad in thy fall, so it shall be made sorry or it shall be sorrowful in his (or its own) desolation. 
And the full out joy of the multitude thereof shall be cut away, and the joy thereof shall be into mourning. 
For why fire shall come on it from him that is without beginning and end or (from) the Everlasting, in full long days; and it shall be inhabited of (or by) fiends or devils, into the multitude or (the) muchliness of time. 
Jerusalem, behold about to the east, and see thou (the) mirth coming of (or from) God to thee. 
For lo! thy sons come, which or whom thou leftest (or thou lettest go) scattered; they come gathered from the east unto the west, in (or by) the word of the Holy (One), and make joy or joying to the honour of God. 
