ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 28.
He that will be avenged, shall find of (or from) the Lord vengeance; and he keeping shall keep his sins to be punished harder by his rightfulness. 
Forgive thou to thy neighbour that annoyeth (or harmeth) thee, and then (thy) sins shall be released or be forgiven to thee (after) praying. 
A man keepeth ire or wrath to (or for a) man; and seeketh he of (or from) God medicine (or remedy)? 
He hath no mercy on a man like himself; and (yet) beseecheth he the Highest for his own sins? 
He the while he is flesh, reserveth ire; and asketh he of God mercy? who shall pray for his sins? 
Have thou mind on the or thy last things, and cease thou or leave (off) to be (anyone’s) enemy. For why failing and death nigh not in the commandments of God, or Rotten-ness forsooth and death, stand on in the behests of him. 
Have thou mind on or Remem-ber the dread of the Lord, and be not wroth to the neighbour. Have thou mind on the testament of the Highest, and despise thou the ignorance of thy neighbour. 
Abstain thee from strife, and thou shalt decrease, either abridge, (thy) sins. For why a wrathful man kindleth strife; 
and a sinful man, that is, a sower of discords, shall disturb (or shall trouble) friends, and he shall send in enmity in the midst of men having peace. 
For why after the trees of the wood, so the fire shall burn on high; and after the might of a man, so his wrathfulness shall be, and after his chattel or his substance he shall enhance his ire. 
Hasty striving or An hasted strife shall kindle fire, and hasty chiding shall shed out blood; and a tongue bearing witnessing shall bring death. 
If thou blowest, as fire it shall burn on high; and if thou spittest thereon, it shall be quenched; ever either, that is, a word kindling ire, and a word refraining it, come forth (out) of the mouth. 
A privy backbiter, and a double-tongued man, yea, he that speaketh fair before a man, and evil behind him, is cursed; for he disturbed (or troubled) many men having peace. 
The third tongue hath stirred many men, and hath scattered them from folk into folk. It hath destroyed walled cities of rich men, and hath mined down (or undermined) the houses of great men. It hath cut down the virtues of peoples, and hath unknit strong folks. 
The third tongue hath cast out wedded, or honest, women, and hath (de)prived them of their travails. 
He that beholdeth the third tongue, shall not have rest; neither shall have a friend, in whom he shall rest. 
The wound of a beating maketh wanness; but the wound of (the) tongue shall make less or break the bones. 
Many men fell down by the sharp-ness of (the) sword; but not so (many), (or not as many) as they that perished or died by their tongue. 
He is blessed that is covered from a wicked, or shrewd, (or depraved) tongue; and he that passed not in the wrathfulness thereof, and he that drew not the yoke thereof, and was not bound in the bonds thereof. 
For why the yoke thereof is an iron yoke, and the bond thereof is a brazen bond. 
The death thereof is the worst death; and hell is more profitable, that is, the pain of hell is less evil, then it. 
The perseverance thereof shall not dwell, but it shall hold the ways of unjust men; in his flame it shall not burn just or rightwise men. 
They that forsake God, shall fall into it; and it shall burn greatly in them, and it shall not be quenched; and as a lion it shall be sent into them, and as a (leo)pard it shall hurt them. 
Beset thine ears with thorns, and do not thou hear a wicked tongue; and make thou doors to (or for) thy mouth, and locks to (or for) thine ears. Well thou or melt together, or temper thou, thy gold, and thy silver; 
and make thou a balance to (or for) thy words, and rightful bridles to (or for) thy mouth. 
And take heed, lest peradventure thou slide in (or with thy) tongue, and fall in the sight of enemies, set-ting treason, or waiting, (or lying in wait) to (or for) thee, and thy fall be uncurable or unhealable into death. 
