MATTHEW.
Chapter 10.
And when his twelve disciples were called together, he gave to them power of unclean spirits (or he gave to them power over unclean spirits), to cast them out of men, and to heal every languor or all ache, and all sickness. 
And these be the names of the twelve apostles; the first, Simon, that is called Peter, and Andrew, his brother; James of Zebedee, and John, his brother; 
Philip, and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew, (a) publican (or a tax collector); and James of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus; 
Simon Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, that betrayed Christ, or which betrayed him, (or who betrayed the Messiah). 
Jesus sent these twelve, and commanded to them, and said, Go ye not into the way of heathen men (or Go not on the way to the Gentiles), and enter ye not into the cities of (the) Samaritans; 
but rather go ye to the sheep of the house of Israel, that have perished. 
And go ye, and preach ye, and say, that the kingdom of heavens shall nigh; (And go, and preach, and say, that the Kingdom of Heaven is near;) 
heal ye sick men, raise ye dead men, cleanse ye mesels or leprous men, cast ye out devils; freely ye have taken, freely give ye. (heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, throw out the demons; freely ye have received, freely give.) 
Do not ye wield (or possess) gold, nor silver, nor money in your girdles, 
not a scrip in the way, neither two coats, neither shoes, nor a staff or a rod; for a workman is worthy (of) his meat, (or for a workman is worthy of his food, or hath earned his keep). 
Into whatever city, or castle, ye shall enter (or Whatever city, or village, ye shall enter into), ask ye who therein is worthy, and there dwell ye, till ye go out. 
And when ye go into an house, greet ye it, and say, Peace to this house. 
And if that house be worthy, your peace shall come on it; but if that house be not worthy, your peace shall turn again to you (or your peace shall return to you). 
And whoever receiveth not you, nor heareth your words, go ye forth from that house or city, and sprinkle off the dust of your feet, or (and) smite away the dust from your feet, (or and shake off the dust from your feet). 
Truly I say to you, it shall be more sufferable to the land of (the) men of Sodom and of Gomorrha in the day of judgement, than to that city. (I tell you the truth, it shall be more bearable for the land of the men of Sodom and Gomorrah on the Day of Judgement, than for that city.) 
Lo! I send you as sheep in the middle or into the midst of wolves; therefore be ye sly, or prudent, or wary, or wise, as serpents, and (as) simple as doves. 
But be ye ware of men, for they shall take you in (to) councils, and they shall beat you in their synagogues; 
and to mayors, or to presidents, and to kings, ye shall be led (in) for me, in witnessing to them, and to heathen men. (and to mayors, or to governors, and to kings, ye shall be led in for me, to give a testimony to them, and to the Gentiles.) 
But when they take (hold of) you, do not ye think, how or what thing ye shall speak, for it shall be given to you in that hour, what ye shall speak; 
for it be not ye that speak, but the Spirit of your Father, that speaketh in (or through) you. 
And the brother shall betake the brother into death (or And a brother shall deliver, or shall betray, a brother unto death), and the father the son, and sons shall rise against their father and mother, and shall torment them by death or to the death. 
And ye shall be in hate or in hatred to all men for my name; but he that shall dwell still or shall continue into the end, shall be made safe. (And ye shall be hated by everyone for my name; but he who shall continue unto the end, shall be saved.) 
And when they pursue you in this city, flee ye into another (or And when they persecute you in this city, flee to another). Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), ye shall not end the cities of Israel, before that man’s Son come. 
The disciple is not above the master, or The disciple is not above his master, (or The student is not above the teacher), nor the servant above his lord; 
it is enough to the disciple, that he be as his master, and to the servant as his lord, (or it is enough for the student, that he be like his teacher, and for the servant, that he be like his lord). If they have called the husbandman, or the father of the household, Beelzebub, (then) how much more his household members? 
Therefore dread ye not them; for nothing is hid or is covered, that shall not be showed; and nothing is privy, that shall not be known. (And so do not fear them; for nothing is hidden, that shall not be shown, or brought out into the open; and nothing is private, or is secret, that shall not be made known.) 
That thing that I say to you in (the) darknesses, say ye in the light; and preach ye on houses or upon roofs, that thing that ye hear in the ear. 
And do not ye dread them that slay the body; for they may not slay the soul; but rather dread ye him, that may lose both soul and body into hell. (And do not fear those who can kill the body; for they cannot kill the soul; but rather fear him, who can destroy both body and soul in hell.) 
Whether two sparrows be not sold for an halfpenny? and one of them shall not fall on the earth without your Father. (Be not two sparrows sold for half a penny? and not one of them shall fall to the ground without your Father knowing about it, or allowing it.) 
And all the hairs of your head be numbered. 
Therefore do not ye dread (or And so do not fear); ye be better than many sparrows. 
Therefore every man that shall acknowledge me before men, I shall acknowledge him before my Father that is in heavens. 
But he that shall deny me before men, I shall deny him before my Father that is in heavens. 
Do not ye deem (or guess) that I came to send peace into the earth; I came not to send peace, but (the) sword. 
For I came to part a man against his father (or For I came to set a man against his father), and the daughter against her mother, and the son’s wife against the husband’s mother; 
and the enemies of a man be they, that be at home with him. 
He that loveth father or mother more than me, is not worthy to me/is not worthy of me. And he that loveth son or daughter more than me, is not worthy to me or is not worthy of me. 
And he that taketh not (up) his cross, and (pur)sueth me (or and followeth me), is not worthy to me or is not worthy of me. 
He that findeth his life, shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for me, shall find it. 
He that receiveth you, receiveth me; and he that receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me. 
He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet, shall take or shall receive the meed (or the reward) of a prophet. And he that receiveth a just man in the name of a just man, shall take or shall receive the meed, (or the reward), of a just man. 
And whoever giveth drink to one of these least, a cup of cold water only, in the name of a disciple, truly I say to you, he shall not lose his meed. (And whoever giveth drink to one of these least ones, even just a cup of cold water, because he is my student, or my follower, I tell you the truth, he shall not lose his reward.) 
