JOHN.
Chapter 17.
These things Jesus spake, and when he had cast or (had) lifted up his eyes into heaven, he said, Father, the hour cometh, clarify thy Son, that thy Son clarify thee. (Jesus spoke these things, and when he had lifted up his eyes unto heaven, he said, Father, the time cometh, glorify thy Son, so that thy Son can glorify thee.) 
As thou hast given to him power on each flesh, or man, (so) that (to) all (the) thing(s) that thou hast given to him, he give to them everlasting life. (For thou hast given him authority over everyone, so that to all those whom thou hast given to him, he can give them eternal life.) 
And this is everlasting life, that they know thee very God alone, and whom thou hast sent, Jesus Christ. (And this is eternal life, that they know thee, the true God alone, and whom thou hast sent, Jesus Christ.) 
I have clarified thee on the earth, I have ended the work, that thou hast given to me to do. (I have glorified thee on the earth, I have finished the work, that thou hast given me to do.) 
And now, Father, clarify thou me at thyself, with the clearness that I had at thee, before the world was made. (And now, Father, glorify me before thee, or in thy presence, with the glory that I had with thee, before the world was made.) 
I have showed thy name to those men, which thou hast given to me of the world; they were thine, and thou hast given them to me, and they have kept thy word (or and they have obeyed thy command). 
And now they have known, that all (the) things that thou hast given to me, be of thee. 
For the words that thou hast given to me, I gave to them; and they have taken, and have known verily, that I went out from thee, (or and they have received it, and have truly known, that I went out from thee); and they believed, that thou sentest me. 
I pray for them, I pray not for the world, but for them that thou hast given to me, for they be thine. 
And all my things be thine, and thy things be mine; and I am clarified in them (or and I am glorified in them). 
And now I am not in the world, and these be in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name, which thou hast given to me, (so) that they be one, as we be(one). 
While I was with them, I kept them in thy name; those that thou gavest to me, I kept, and none of them perished, no but the son of perdition, (so) that the scripture be fulfilled. 
But now I come to thee, and I speak these things in the world, that they have my joy fulfilled in themselves. (And now I come to thee, but I say these things while I am still in the world, so that they have my joy filled full within themselves.) 
I gave to them thy word, and the world had them in hate, (or I gave thy words to them; and the world hated them); for they be not of the world, as I am not of the world. 
I pray not, that thou take them away from the world, but that thou keep them from evil. 
They be not of the world, as I am not of the world. 
Hallow thou them in (the) truth; thy word is truth. 
As thou sentest me into the world, also I sent them into the world. 
And I hallow myself for them, (so) that also they be hallowed in (the) truth. 
And I pray not only for them, but also for them that shall believe into me by the word of them; (And I pray not only for them, but also for those who shall believe in me because of their words;) 
that all they be one, as thou, Father, in me, and I in thee, that also they in us be one, (or that they all be one, like thou, Father, in me, and I in thee, that also they be one in us); (so) that the world believe, that thou hast sent me. 
And I have given to them the clearness, that thou hast given to me, that they be one, as we be one; (And I have given them the glory, that thou hast given me, so that they be one, like we be one;) 
I in them, and thou in me, that they be ended into one (or so that they perfectly or completely become one); and (so) that the world know, that thou sentest me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved also me. 
Father, they which thou hast given to me, I will that where I am, that they be with me, that they see my clearness, that thou hast given to me; for thou lovedest me before the making of the world. (Father, they whom thou hast given to me, I desire that where I am, that they be with me, so that they can see my glory, which thou hast given to me; for thou hast loved me before the making or the creation of the world.) 
Father, rightfully the world knew thee not, or Rightful Father, (or Righteous Father), the world knew not thee, but I knew thee, and these knew, that thou sentest me. 
And I have made thy name known to them, and shall make known; that the love by which thou hast loved me, be in them, and I in them. 
