2ND MACCABEES.
Chapter 14.
But after (the) time of three years Judas knew, and they that were with him, that Demetrius (son of) Seleucus ascended or went up to covenable places, with (a) strong multitude, and ships, by the haven of Tripoli, 
and hath holden countries (or had taken the country) against Antiochus, and his duke Lysias. 
Forsooth one Alcimus, that was (the) highest priest, but willfully was defouled in times of mingling together, beheld that in no manner health was to (or for) him, neither access, or nighing, or coming to, to the altar, 
and he came to king Demetrius, in the hundred and fiftieth year, and offered to him a golden crown, and (a) palm, (and) over these things and offered vessels, that were seen to be of (or from) the temple; and soothly in that day he was still. 
Forsooth he got a covenable time of his madness, and he was called of (or by) Demetrius to counsel, and was asked with what things and counsels Jews endeavoured, and he answered, 
They that be said Hasideans of (the) Jews, of which or whom Judas Maccabeus is (the) sovereign, nourish battles, and move dissensions, neither suffer the realm for to be quiet. 
For why and I am defrauded of (the) glory of (my) father and mother, soothly I say, of (the) highest priest-hood, and I came hither, 
first, soothly keeping faith to the king’s profits, (and) the second time, soothly counselling also to citizens, for why by shrewdness (or depravity) of them, all our kin is travailed greatly. 
But I pray, thou king, when all these things be known, behold to the country, and kin, by thy manliness (or according to thy humanity), or courtesy, showed to all men. 
For why as long as Judas liveth, it is impossible that peace be to needs. 
Forsooth when such things were said of (or by) him, and other friends, having them enmity, enflamed Demetrius against Judas. 
Which anon sent Nicanor, sove-reign of elephants, a duke into Judea, 
with commandments given for to take that Judas quick, for to scatter soothly them that were with him, and for to ordain Alcimus highest priest of the most (or the great) temple. 
Then (the) heathen men, that fled Judas from Judea, flock-meal joined them to Nicanor, and guessed the wretchednesses and deaths of Jews (to be) prosperities of (or for) their things. 
Therefore when (the) coming of Nicanor was heard (of), and coming together of (the) nations, (the) Jews besprinkled with earth prayed him, that ordained his people into without end for to keep, and which covereth, or defendeth, his part with open signs. 
Forsooth for the duke commanded, anon (or at once) they (re)moved from thence, and came together to the castle Dessau (or to the town of Adasa). 
Simon forsooth, brother of Judas, joined battle with Nicanor, but he was all-broken with (the) sudden coming of (the) adversaries. 
Nevertheless Nicanor heard (of) the virtue (or might) of Judas’ fellows, and greatness of hardiness, which they had for strives of the country, and dreaded for to make doom by blood. 
Wherefore he before-sent Posidon-ius, and Theodotus, and Mattathias, for to give right hands, and take (or to make peace). 
And when long counsel was done of (or on) these things, and the duke himself had told to the multi-tude, one sentence was of all, for to grant to friendships. 
Therefore or And so they ordain-ed a day, in which they should do privily betwixt themselves; and stools, or small seats, were brought forth, and set to (or set out)(for) each. 
Forsooth Judas commanded armed men for to be in covenable places, lest peradventure anything of evil should rise suddenly of (or from)(the) enemies; and they made a covenable (or a suitable) speech together. 
Forsooth Nicanor dwelt in Jeru-salem, and nothing did evil (or did no evil); and he let go (the) flocks of (the) companies, that were gathered (unto him). 
Forsooth he had Judas evermore dearworthy of heart, and was bowed to the man; 
and prayed him for to wed a wife, and to engender sons; and he made weddings, did quietly, and they lived commonly, or communally, or together. 
Alcimus forsooth saw the charity (or the love) of them together, and accordings, and came to Demetrius, and said, that Nicanor assenteth to alien, either other men’s, things, and hath ordained Judas, (a) traitor of the realm, (to be)(the) successor to him. 
Therefore the king was made sharp, and stirred to wrath with such worst accusings, and wrote to Nicanor, and said, that soothly he bare griev-ously of (the) according of friendship, and nevertheless commanded for to send Maccabeus bound to Antioch. 
And when these things were known, Nicanor was astonished, and grievously bare (it), if he made void those things that were accorded or that accorded, and (as) he was nothing hurt, or harmed, of (or by) the man; 
but for he might not against-stand the king, he kept covenability (or he waited for an opportunity), in which he should perform the commandment. 
And Maccabeus saw, that Nicanor did with him most sternly, and gave fiercelier customable coming together, and he understood that this sternness or fierceness was not of (or for) good, and with a few of his (men) gathered, he hid him(self) from Nicanor. 
And as he knew this thing, that he was strongly before-come, or espied, of (or by) the man, he came to the most and holiest temple, and he commanded to the priests offering customable (or the accustomed) sacri-fices, that the man be betaken to him. 
And when they said with (an) oath, that they knew not, where he was that was sought, 
he stretched forth the hand to the temple, and swore, If ye shall not be-take to me Judas bound, I shall draw down this temple of God into plain-ness (or even with the ground), and dig out the altar, and I shall hallow this temple to Liber (or Pater), or Bacchus, that is, (the) god of wine, the father. 
And when he had said these things, he went away. Forsooth the priests held forth (their) hands into heaven, and called him to help that ever(more) is (a) for-fighter of the folk of them, and said these things, 
Thou, Lord of all creatures or Thou, Lord of university, or of all creatures, (or O Lord of all Creation), that of nothing hast need, wouldest (or desiredest) that the temple of thine habitation be made in (or among) us. 
And now, thou Lord, holy of all holy, keep without end this house undefouled, that (just) a little (while) ago was cleansed. 
Forsooth Razis, one of the elder men of Jerusalem, was accused to Nicanor; and Razis was a man, (a) lover of the city, and well-hearing (or well heard of) or and well-praising (or highly praised), that for affection, or love, was called (the) father of (the) Jews. 
This man many times held purpose of continence in Judea or in Jewry, and was appeased (or was satisfied) for to betake body and soul for perseverance, or lasting. 
Forsooth Nicanor would show the hatred, that he had against (the) Jews, and sent five hundred knights, for to take him. 
For he guessed, if he had deceived him, that he should bring in most death to (the) Jews. 
Forsooth when (the) companies coveted for to fall into his house, and for to break the gate, and for to move to fire, when now he was taken, that is, was nigh the taking, he assailed himself with (a) sword; 
choosing to die nobly, rather than to be made subject to sinners, and against his birth for to be led with unworthy wrongs. 
But when by hast(en)ing he had given wound with uncertain stroke, and (the) companies betwixt (the) doors burst in, he ran again hardily to the wall, and casted down himself manly into the companies. 
And when they gave swiftly place to his fall, he came by the middle of the knoll, 
and yet while he breathed, he was kindled in heart, and rose (up). And when his blood with great flowing flowed down, and with most grievous wounds he was wounded, by running he passed the company; and stood on an high stone or standing upon some high stone, 
and now was made without blood, and embraced his entrails with both hands, and casted (them) forth on the companies, and called to help the lordshipper of life and spirit or he in-calling the lordshipper of life and spirit, that he should yield again these things to him; and thus he was dead from life. 
