JOSHUA.
Chapter 15.
Then this was the part of the sons of Judah, by their kindreds; from the term of Edom till to the desert of Zin against the south (or from the border of Edom in the desert of Zin southward), and till to the last part of the south coast, 
the beginning thereof from the height of the saltiest sea (or its beginning was the end of the Salt Sea, that is, the Dead Sea), and from the arm thereof, that beholdeth to the south. 
And it goeth out against the ascending of Scorpion (or And it goeth out to Maalehacrabbim), and passeth into Zin; and it ascendeth into Kadeshbarnea, and cometh into Hezron, and it ascendeth to Adar, and compasseth Karkaa; 
and from thence it passeth into Azmon, and cometh to the strand of Egypt; and the terms thereof shall be the great sea; this shall be the end of the south coast. (and from there it passeth into Azmon, and cometh to the River of Egypt, that is, the Nile River, or the Shihor; and its end, or its limit, shall be the Mediterranean Sea; this shall be the southern border.) 
And from the east the beginning shall be the saltiest sea, unto the last parts of (the) Jordan, (or And on the east the beginning shall be the Salt Sea, or the Dead Sea, unto the last parts of the Jordan River), and those parts that behold (to) the north, from the arm of the sea unto the same flood of (the) Jordan. 
And the term ascendeth into Bethhogla, and passeth from the north into Betharabah; and it ascendeth to the stone of Bohan, (who was)the son of Reuben, 
and it goeth unto the terms of Debir, from the valley of Achor against the north; and it beholdeth Gilgal, which is on the contrary part of the ascending of Adummim, from the south part of the strand; and it passeth the waters, that be called the well of the sun; and the outgoings thereof shall be to the well of Rogel. (and it goeth unto Debir, from the Achor Valley, and turneth to the north; and it beholdeth Gilgal, which is on the opposite side of the ascent of Adummim, south of the river, or the valley; and it passeth the waters of Enshemesh; and its end, or its limit, shall be Enrogel.) 
And it goeth up by the valley of the son of Hinnom, by the side of (the) Jebusites, at the south; this is Jerusalem; and from thence it up-raiseth itself to the top of the hill, that is against Hinnom at the west, in the height of the valley of Rephaim, against the north; (And it goeth up by the Hinnom Valley, on the south side of the Jebusites; that is Jerusalem; and from there it raiseth itself up to the top of the hill, west of the Hinnom Valley, which is at the northern end of the Rephaim Valley;) 
and it passeth forth from the top of the hill to the well of the water(s) of Nephtoah, and it cometh unto the towns of the hill of Ephron; and it is bowed into Baalah, that is Kiriathjearim, that is, the city of woods; 
and it compasseth from Baalah against the west, unto the hill of Seir, and it passeth by the side of the hill of Jearim to the north in Chesalon, (or and it goeth west from Baalah to Mount Seir, and it passeth by the north side of Mount Jearim, which is Chesalon), and (then) it goeth down into Bethshemesh; and it passeth forth into Timnah, 
and it cometh against the parts of the north by the side of Ekron; and it is bowed to Shicron, and it passeth the hill of Baalah (or and it goeth by Mount Baalah); and it cometh into Jabneel, 
and it is closed with the end of the great sea, against the west. These be the terms of the sons of Judah, by compass in their families. (and it endeth with the Mediterranean Sea, as its western border. This is the course of the borders of the sons of Judah, family by family.) 
And Joshua gave to Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, (a) part in the midst of the sons of Judah, as the Lord commanded to him, this part called Kiriatharba, of the father of Anak; that is Hebron. (And Joshua gave to Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, a portion in the midst of the sons of Judah, as the Lord commanded him, and that was the city of Arba, who was the father of the Anakim, or of the giants; this is Hebron.) 
And Caleb did away from thence(the) three sons of Anak, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, of the generation of Anak. 
And Caleb went up from thence, and he came to the dwellers of Debir, that was called before Kiriathsepher, that is, the city of letters, (or that before was called Kiriathsepher, that is, the City of Letters). 
And Caleb said, I shall give Achsah, my daughter, (for a) wife to him that shall smite Kiriathsepher, and shall take it. 
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took the city: and Caleb gave Achsah, his daughter, (for a) wife to him. 
And when she went together (with him), her husband counselled her, that she should ask of her father a field (or that she should ask for a field from her father); and (so) she sighed, as she sat upon the ass; and Caleb said to her, What hast thou in thy mind? 
And she answered, Give thou a blessing to me; thou hast given to me the south land and dry (or thou hast given me the dry south land); join thou also thereto a moist land. And (so) Caleb gave to her the moist land, above and beneath. 
This is the possession of the lineage of the sons of Judah, by their families. 
And the cities from the last parts of the sons of Judah, beside the terms of Edom (or by the border with Edom), from the south were these cities; Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur, 
Kinah, and Dimonah, Adadah, 
and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan, 
and Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth, 
and Hazor, Hadattah, and Kerioth, (and) Hezron, this is Hazor, 
Amam, Shema, and Moladah, 
and Hazargaddah, and Heshmon, (and) Bethpalet, 
and Hazarshual, and Beersheba, and Bizjothjah, 
and Baalah, and Iim, and Azem, 
and Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah, 
and Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah, 
Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon; all the cities, nine and twenty, and the towns of those. 
And in the field places, Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah, 
and Zanoah, and Engannim, and Tappuah, and Enam, 
and Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah, 
and Sharaim, Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederothaim; fourteen cities, and the towns of those; 
Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdalgad, 
Dilean, and Mizpeh, (and) Joktheel, 
Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon, 
Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Kithlish, 
and Gederoth, and Bethdagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah; sixteen cities, and the towns of those, 
Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan, 
Jiphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib, 
and Keilah, and Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities, and the towns of those; 
Ekron, with his towns and villages; (Ekron, and its towns and villages;) 
from Ekron till to the sea, all that go to Ashdod, and the towns thereof; (and from Ekron to the west, all the cities close to Ashdod, and its towns;) 
Ashdod with his towns and villages; Gaza with his towns and villages, till to the strand of Egypt; and the great sea is the term thereof; (Ashdod, and its towns and villages; Gaza, and its towns and villages, unto the River of Egypt, that is, the Nile; and the Mediterranean Sea is its border;) 
and in the hill (country), Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh, 
and Dannah, (and) Kiriathsannah, this is Debir, 
Anab, and Eshtemoh, and Anim, 
Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities, and the towns of those; 
Arab, and Dumah, and Eshean, 
and Janum, and Bethtappuah, and Aphekah, 
Humtah, and Kiriatharba, this is Hebron, and Zior; nine cities, and the towns of those; 
Maon, and Carmel, and Ziph, and Juttah, 
Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah, 
and Cain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities, and the towns of those; 
Halhul, and Bethzur, and Gedor, 
Maarath, and Bethanoth, and Eltekon; six cities, and the towns of those; 
Kiriathbaal, this is Kiriathjearim, the city of (the) woods, and Rabbah; two cities, and the towns of those; 
in the desert, Betharabah, Middin, and Secacah, 
Nibshan, and the city of Salt, and Engedi; six cities, and the towns of those; the cities were (all) together an hundred and fifteen. 
Soothly the sons of Judah might not do away Jebusites, the dweller(s) of Jerusalem; and Jebusites dwelled with the sons of Judah in Jerusalem unto this present day. (But the sons of Judah could not do away the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and so the Jebusites live with the sons of Judah in Jerusalem unto this present day.) 
