LUKE.
Chapter 18.
And he said to them also a parable, that it behooveth to pray (for)evermore (or that it behooveth to always pray), and not fail; 
and said, There was a judge in a city, that dreaded not God, neither shamed of men. (and said, There was a judge in a city, who did not fear God, nor could be shamed by any man.) 
And a widow was in that city, and she came to him, and said, (A)Venge me of mine adversary; 
and he would not (for a) long time. But after these things he said within himself, Though I dread not God, and shame not of man, (or Though I do not fear God, and I cannot be shamed by any man), 
nevertheless for this widow is heavy or is dis-easeful to me, I shall (a)venge her; lest at the last she coming condemn me or she strangle me. 
And the Lord said, Hear ye, what the doomsman of wickedness saith (or Listen to what the wicked judge saith); 
and whether God shall not do the vengeance of his chosen, crying to him day and night, and shall have patience in them? (and so shall God not take vengeance for his chosen, those crying to him day and night, and shall also have patience with them?) 
Soothly I say to you, for soon he shall do the vengeance of them. Nevertheless guessest thou, that man’s Son coming shall find faith in earth? (Truly I say to you, or I tell you the truth, that soon he shall take vengeance for them. Nevertheless guessest thou, that when man’s Son cometh, he shall find faith on the earth?) 
And he said also to some men, that trusted in themselves, as they were rightful, or that trusted in themselves, as rightful, (or who believed themselves to be good and righteous), and despised others, this parable, saying, 
Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican (or and the other one a tax-collector). 
And the Pharisee stood, and prayed by himself these things, and said, God, I do thankings to thee, (or God, I give thanks to thee), for I am not as other men, raveners, unjust, adulterers, as also this publican (is); 
I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all (the) things that I have in possession. 
And the publican stood afar (or And the tax-collector stood far off), and would not raise up his eyes to heaven, but smote his breast, and said, God be merciful to me, (a) sinner. 
Truly I say to you, this went down into his house, and was justified from the other. For each that enhanceth himself, shall be made low, and he that meeketh himself, shall be enhanced. (I tell you the truth, this man went down to his house, and was justified rather than the other man. For everyone who exalteth himself, or who raiseth himself up, shall be made low, and he who humbleth himself, shall be exalted, or shall be raised up.) 
And they brought to him young children, that he should touch them; and when the disciples saw this thing, they blamed them. (And they brought young children to him, so that he would touch them; and when the disciples saw this, they rebuked them.) 
But Jesus called together them, and said, Suffer ye (the) children to come to me, and do not ye forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of heavens. (But Jesus called them together, and said, Allow the children to come to me, and do not forbid them, for of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.) 
Truly I say to you, whoever shall not take the kingdom of God as a child, he shall not enter into it. (I tell you the truth, whoever shall not receive, or shall not accept, the Kingdom of God like a child, he shall not enter into it.) 
And a prince asked him, and said, Good master, in what thing doing shall I wield everlasting life? (And a leader of the synagogue asked him, and said, Good Teacher, what must I do to get, or to possess, eternal life?) 
And Jesus said to him, What sayest thou me (to be) good? (or Why sayest thou that I am good?) No man is good, but God alone. 
Thou knowest the commandments, Thou shalt not slay, Thou shalt not do lechery, Thou shalt not do theft, Thou shalt not say false witnessing, Worship thy father and thy mother. (Thou knowest the commandments, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not do adultery, Thou shalt not do theft, Thou shalt not give false testimony, or Thou shalt not lie, Honour thy father and thy mother.) 
Which said (or And he replied), I have kept all these things from my youth. 
And when this thing was heard, Jesus said to him, Yet one thing faileth to thee; sell thou all (the) things that thou hast, and give to poor men, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come, and (pur)sue thou me, or and come, and (pur)sue me, (or and come, and follow me). 
And when these things were heard, he was sorrowful, for he was full rich. 
And Jesus seeing him made sorry or made sorrowful said, How hard they that have money or riches shall enter into the kingdom of God; 
for it is lighter or forsooth it is easier, (for) a camel to pass through a needle’s eye, than (for) a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. 
And they that heard these things said, Who may be made safe? (And they who heard these things said, Then who can be saved?) 
And he said to them, Those things that be impossible with men, be possible with God. 
But Peter said, Lo! we have left all things, and have (pur)sued thee. (But Peter said, Behold! we have left everything, and have followed thee.) 
And he said to him, Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), there is no man that shall forsake house, or father and mother, or brethren, or wife, or children, or fields, for the realm of God (or for the Kingdom of God), 
and shall not receive many more things in this time, and in the world to coming everlasting life, or and in the world to come everlasting life, (or and in the world to come eternal life). 
And Jesus took his twelve disciples, and said to them, Lo! we go up to Jerusalem, and (there) all things shall be ended, that be written by the prophets of man’s Son (or which be written by the prophets about man’s Son). 
For he shall be betrayed to heathen men (or For he shall be handed over to the Gentiles), and he shall be scorned, and scourged, and bespat; 
and after that they have scourged him, they shall slay him, and the third day he shall rise again. 
And they understood nothing of these; and this word was hid from them (or and the meaning was hidden from them), and they understood not those things that were said. 
But it was done, when Jesus came nigh to Jericho (or when Jesus approached Jericho), a blind man sat beside the way, and begged. 
And when he heard the people passing (by), he asked, what this was. 
And they said to him, that Jesus of Nazareth passed (by). 
And he cried, and said, Jesus, the son of David, have mercy on me. 
And they that went before, blamed him, that he should be still, (or And they who went ahead of Jesus, rebuked him, saying that he should be quiet); but he cried much the more or soothly he cried much more, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. 
And Jesus stood, and commanded him to be brought forth to him. And when he came nigh, he asked him, and said, 
What wilt thou that I shall do to thee? (or What desirest thou that I shall do for thee?) And he said, Lord, that I see. 
And Jesus said to him, Behold; thy faith hath made thee safe, (or Behold; thy faith hath saved thee, or thy faith hath healed thee). 
And anon he saw, and (pur)sued him, and magnified God. And all the people, as it saw, gave praising to God. (And at once he saw, and followed him, and praised God. And all the people, who saw it happen, also praised God.) 
