MATTHEW.
Chapter 1.
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. 
Abraham begat Isaac. Isaac begat Jacob. Jacob begat Judas and his brethren. 
Judas begat Phares and Zara, of Thamar. Phares begat Esrom. Esrom begat Aram. 
Aram begat Aminadab. Aminadab begat Naasson. Naasson begat Salmon. 
Salmon begat Booz, of Rachab. Booz begat Obed, of Ruth. Obed begat Jesse. 
Jesse begat David the king. David the king begat Solomon, of her that was Urias’ wife. 
Solomon begat Roboam. Roboam begat Abia. Abia begat Asa. 
Asa begat Josaphat. Josaphat begat Joram. Joram begat Ozias. 
Ozias begat Joatham. Joatham begat Achaz. Achaz begat Ezekias. 
Ezekias begat Manasses. Manasses begat Amon. Amon begat Josias. 
Josias begat Jechonias and his brethren, into the transmigration of Babylon (or until the exile to Babylon). 
And after the transmigration of Babylon (or And after the exile to Babylon), Jechonias begat Salathiel. Salathiel begat Zorobabel. 
Zorobabel begat Abiud. Abiud begat Eliakim. Eliakim begat Azor. 
Azor begat Sadoc. Sadoc begat Achim. Achim begat Eliud. 
Eliud begat Eleazar. Eleazar begat Matthan. Matthan begat Jacob. 
Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, that is called Christ (or who is called the Messiah). 
And so all the generations from Abraham to David be fourteen generations, and from David to the transmigration of Babylon be fourteen generations, and from the transmigration of Babylon to Christ be fourteen generations. (And so all the generations from Abraham to David be fourteen generations, and from David to the exile to Babylon be fourteen generations, and from the exile to Babylon to the Messiah be fourteen generations.) 
But the generation of Christ was thus (or But the birth of the Messiah was thus). When Mary, the mother of Jesus, was espoused to Joseph, before that they came together, she was found having of the Holy Ghost in the womb, or she was found having in the womb of the Holy Ghost, (or she was found being with child by the Holy Spirit). 
And Joseph, her husband, for he was rightful or when he was a just man, and would not publish her, he would privily have left her. (And her husband Joseph, for he was a good man, and would not make her public, he wanted to privately let her go.) 
But while he thought (on) these things, lo! the angel of the Lord appeared to him in sleep, and said, Joseph, the son of David, do not thou dread to take Mary, (to be) thy wife; for that thing that is born in her is of the Holy Ghost. (But while he thought on these things, behold! the angel of the Lord appeared to him in sleep, and said, Joseph, the son of David, do not fear to take Mary to be thy wife; for that which is born in her is by the Holy Spirit.) 
And she shall bear a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus; for he shall make his people safe from their sins (or for he shall save his people from their sins). 
For all this thing was done, that it should be fulfilled, that was said of the Lord by a prophet, saying, 
Lo! a virgin shall have in the womb, and she shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, that is to say, God with us. 
And Joseph rose up from sleep, and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took Mary, (to be) his wife; 
and he knew her not, till she had born her first begotten son, and he called his name Jesus. 
