1ST THESSALONIANS.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, brethren, from henceforward we pray you, and beseech in the Lord Jesus, that as ye have received of us (or that as ye have received from us), how it behooveth you to go and to please God, so walk ye, (so) that ye abound more. 
For ye know what commandments I have given to you by the Lord Jesus. 
For this is the will of God, (yea), your holiness, that ye abstain you(rselves) from fornication. 
That each of you know how to wield his vessel in holiness, and honour; (So that each of you know how to control his body with holiness, and with honour;) 
not in (the) passion(s) of lust, as (the) heathen men that know not God. (not in lustful passions, like the Gentiles who do not know God.) 
And that no man over-go, neither deceive his brother, in chaffering. For the Lord is (the)(a)venger of all these things, as we before-said to you, and have witnessed. (And that no one overreach, or take advantage of, or deceive his brother, in merchandising or in trading. For the Lord is the avenger of all these things, as we said to you before, or as we warned you, and have so testified.) 
For God called not us into uncleanness, but into holiness. 
Therefore he that despiseth these things, despiseth not man, but God, that also gave his Holy Spirit in us (or who also gave us his Holy Spirit). 
But of the charity of brotherhood, we had no need to write to you; ye yourselves have learned of God, that ye love together; (But about the love for the brotherhood, we had no need to write to you; ye yourselves have learned from God, that ye should love one another;) 
for ye do that into all (the) brethren in all (of) Macedonia. And, brethren, we pray you, that ye abound more; (and in fact ye do love all the brothers in all of Macedonia. And, brothers, we beseech you, that ye abound all the more;) 
and take keep, that ye be quiet, or and give work, or busyness, that ye be quiet, (or and take care, that ye be calm, or that ye live quietly); and that ye do your need, and that ye work with your own hands, as we have commanded to you; 
and that ye wander honestly to them that be withoutforth, and that of no man ye desire anything. (and that ye walk honestly, or properly, with those who be outside of us, and that ye desire nothing from anyone.) 
For, brethren, we will not, that ye unknow of men that die, that ye be not sorrowful, as others that have not hope. (And, brothers, we do not desire, that ye do not know about men who die, so that ye do not sorrow, like others who have no hope.) 
For if we believe, that Jesus was dead, and rose again, so God shall lead with him them that be dead by Jesus. (For we believe, that Jesus died, and rose again, and so God shall bring back with him those who have died as believers.) 
And we say this thing to you in the word of the Lord, that we that live, that be left in the coming of the Lord, shall not come before them that be dead. (And we say this to you by the word of the Lord, that we who live, who be left alive until the coming, or the return, of the Lord, shall not go before those who have died.) 
For the Lord himself shall come down from heaven, in the commandment or in the commanding, and in the voice of an archangel, and in the trump of God; and the dead men that be in Christ, shall rise again first. (For the Lord himself shall come down from heaven, at the command, and with the voice of an archangel, and with the trumpet of God; and the dead who believe in the Messiah, shall rise again first.) 
Afterward we that live, that be left, shall be ravished together with them in (the) clouds, meeting Christ in the air; and so (for)evermore we shall be with the Lord. (Afterward we who live, who be left alive, shall be snatched up together with those in the clouds, meeting the Messiah in the air; and then forevermore, we shall be with the Lord.) 
Therefore be ye comforted together in these words. (And so comfort ye or strengthen one another with these words.) 
