APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 5.
And I saw in the right hand of the sitter on the throne, a book written within and without, and sealed with seven seals. 
And I saw a strong angel, preaching with a great voice (or asking with a loud voice), Who is worthy to open the book, and to undo the seals of it? 
And none or And no man in heaven, neither in earth, neither under (the) earth, might open the book, neither behold it. 
And I wept much, for none or no man was found worthy to open the book, neither to see it. 
And one of the elder men said to me, Weep thou not; lo! a lion of the lineage of Juda(h), the root of David, hath overcome to open the book, and to undo the seven seals of it. (And one of the elders said to me, Weep not; behold! a lion from the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath overcome to open the book, and to undo its seven seals.) 
And I saw, and lo! in the middle of the throne, and of the four beasts, and in the middle of the elder men, a lamb standing as slain, that had seven horns, and seven eyes, which be the seven spirits of God, sent into all the earth. (And I saw, and behold! in the midst of the throne, and of the four creatures, and of the elders, a Lamb standing there, who appeared to have been killed, and he had seven horns, and seven eyes, which be the seven spirits of God, sent into all the earth.) 
And he came, and took of the right hand of the sitter in the throne the book. (And he came, and took the book from the right hand of Him who sat on the throne.) 
And when he had opened the book, the four beasts and the four and twenty elder men fell down before the lamb; and had each of them harps, and golden vials full of odours, which be the prayers of (the) saints. (And when he had opened the book, the four creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb; and each of them had harps, and gold basins, or gold bowls, full of incense, which be the prayers of God’s people.) 
And they sung a new song, and said, Lord our God, thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals of it; for thou were slain, and again-boughtest us to God in thy blood, of each lineage, and tongue, and people, and nation, (or for thou wast killed, and so thou hast redeemed us to God with thy blood, yea, from every tribe, and language, and people, and nation); 
and madest us a kingdom, and priests to our God; and we shall reign on earth. (and madest us into a kingdom, and priests for our God; and we shall rule on the earth.) 
And I saw, and heard the voice(s) of many angels all about the throne, and of the beasts, and of the elder men, (or And I saw, and heard the voices of many angels all about the throne, and the voices of the creatures, and of the elders). And the number of them was thousands of thousands, 
saying with a great voice, The lamb that was slain, is worthy to take virtue, and Godhead or and Divinity, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing. (saying with loud voices, The Lamb that was killed, is worthy to receive power, and Godhead, or Divinity, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing.) 
And each creature that is in heaven, and that is on the earth, and under (the) earth, and the sea, and which things be in it, I heard all (of them) saying, To him that sat in the throne, and to the lamb, blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, into (the) worlds of worlds, (or To Him who sat on the throne, and to the Lamb, blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, forever and ever). 
And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elder men fell down on their faces, and worshipped him that liveth into (the) worlds of worlds. (And the four creatures said, Amen. And the twenty-four elders fell down on their faces, and worshipped Him who liveth forever and ever.) 
