ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 15.
He that dreadeth God, shall do good works; and he that holdeth rightfulness or rightwiseness, shall take (or receive) it, that is, wisdom. 
And it as a mother honoured shall meet him, and as a woman from virginity or from maidenhood it shall take (or shall receive) him. 
It shall feed him with the bread of life, and of understanding; and it shall give drink to him with water of heal(th)ful or of wholesome wisdom; 
it shall be made steadfast in him, and he shall not be bowed (or turned away)from the evenness of rightfulness. And it shall hold him, and he shall not be shamed or confounded; 
and it shall enhance him at (or it shall exalt him above) his neighbours. And in the midst of the church he or it shall open his mouth; and God shall fill him with the spirit of wisdom, and of understanding, and shall clothe him with the stole of glory. 
God shall treasure on him mirth, and full out joying; and shall inherit him with (an) everlasting name. 
Fond men or Men fools shall not take that wisdom, and (or but) witty men shall meet (with) it. (Yea), Fond men or Men fools shall not see it; 
for why it goeth away far from pride, and guile or treachery. Men leasing-mongers or liars shall not be mindful thereof, and soothfast men be found therein; and shall have pros-perity unto the beholding of God. 
Praising is not fair in the mouth of a sinner, for he is not sent of the Lord (or it was not sent to him from the Lord). 
For why wisdom went forth from God; forsooth praising shall stand nigh (to) the wisdom of God, and it shall be plenteous or abound in a faithful mouth, and the Lord shall give it to him. 
Say thou not, It goeth away by God; for why do thou not those things (or why do thou do those things), which God hateth. Thou shalt not say, By God it is away; those things forsooth it hateth, thou shalt not do. 
Say thou not, He made me for to err; for why wicked or unpious men be not needful to him. 
The Lord hateth all cursedness of error, and it (also) shall not be amiable or loveful to them, that dread him. 
At the beginning God made or ordained man, and left him (or let him go) in the hand of his counsel. 
He added his commandments, and laws; if thou wilt keep the commandments, those or they shall keep thee, and keep pleasant (or pleasing) faith without end. 
He hath set to thee water and fire; (ad)dress, (or direct), or put forth thine hand to that, that thou wilt. 
Before man is life and death, good and evil; that, that pleaseth him, shall be given to him. 
For why the wisdom of God is much, and he is strong in power, and seeth all men without ceasing. 
The eyes of the Lord be to them, that dread him; and he knoweth all the travail or all the work of man. 
He commanded not to any man to do wickedly or unpiously; and he gave not to any man space to do sin. 
