APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 6.
And I saw, that the lamb had opened one of the seven seals. And I heard one of the four beasts saying, as a voice of thunder, Come thou, and see. (And I saw, that the Lamb had opened one of the seven seals. And I heard one of the four creatures say, with a voice like thunder, Come, and see.) 
And I saw, and lo! a white horse; and he that sat on him had a bow, and a crown was given to him. And he went out overcoming, (so) that he should overcome. 
And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast saying, Come thou, and see. (And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second creature say, Come, and see.) 
And an other red horse went out; and it was given to him that sat on him power, that he should take peace from the earth, and that they slay together themselves, (or so that he would take peace from the earth, so the people would kill each other); and a great sword was given to him. 
And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast saying, Come thou, and see. And lo! a black horse; and he that sat on him had a balance in his hand. (And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third creature say, Come, and see. And behold! a black horse; and he who sat on him had a balance in his hand.) 
And I heard as a voice in the middle of the four beasts, saying, (or And I heard a voice from the midst of the creatures say), A bilibre, that is, a weight of two pounds, of wheat for a penny, and three bilibres of barley for a penny; and hurt thou not (the) wine, nor (the) oil. 
And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard a voice of the fourth beast saying, Come thou, and see. (And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth creature say, Come, and see.) 
And lo! a pale horse; and the name was Death to him that sat on him, and hell (pur)sued him (or and hell followed him). And power was given to him on, (or over), (the) four parts of the earth, to slay with (the) sword, and with hunger, and with death, and with beasts of the earth. 
And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of men slain for the word of God, and for the witnessing that they had. (And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of men killed for the word of God, and for the testimony which they had given.) 
And they cried with a great voice, and said, How long thou, Lord, that art holy and true, deemest thou not, and vengest not our blood of these that dwell in the earth? (And they cried with loud voices, and said, How long O Lord, who art holy and true, judgest not, and avengest not our blood upon those who live on the earth?) 
And white stoles, for each soul a stole, were given to them; and it was said to them, that they should rest yet a little time, till the number of their fellows and of their brethren be fulfilled, that be to be slain, as also they were. 
And I saw, when he had opened the sixth seal, and lo! a great earth-moving was made, (and behold! there was a great earthquake); and the sun was made black, as a sackcloth of hair, and all the moon was made as blood. 
And the stars of heaven felled down on the earth, as a fig tree sendeth his unripe figs, when it is moved of a great wind. (And the stars of the heavens fell down upon the earth, like a fig tree sendeth its unripe figs, when it is moved by a great wind.) 
And (the) heaven(s) went away, as a book wrapped in or enfolded; and all the mountains and (the) isles were moved from their places. 
And the kings of the earth, and princes, and tribunes, and rich, and strong, and each bondman, and free man, hid them(selves) in dens and (in the) stones of (the) hills. 
And they say to (the) hills and to (the) stones, Fall ye on us, and hide ye us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the lamb; 
for the great day of their wrath cometh, and who shall be able to stand? 
