HEBREWS.
Chapter 5.
For each bishop taken of men (or For every high priest taken from among men), is ordained for men in these things that be to God, (so) that he offer gifts and sacrifices for sins. 
Which may together sorrow with them (or Who can feel compassion for those), that be uncunning, (or unknowing, or ignorant), and err; for also he is environed with infirmity. 
And therefore he oweth (or And so he ought), as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins. 
Neither any man taketh to him honour, but he that is called of God, as Aaron was. 
So Christ clarified not himself, that he were bishop, but he that spake to him, Thou art my Son, today I (en)gendered thee. (So the Messiah did not glorify himself, so that he became High Priest, but he who spoke to him, and said, Thou art my Son, today I begat thee.) 
As in another place he saith, Thou art a priest into without end, after the order of Melchisedec, (or Thou art a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek). 
Which in the days of his flesh offered, with great cry and tears, prayers and beseechings to him that might make him safe from death (or prayers and beseechings to him who could save him from death), and was heard for his reverence. 
And when he was God’s Son, he learned obedience of these things that he suffered; 
and he brought to the end or he led to perfection is made (the) cause of everlasting health to all that obey him, (and he brought to perfection is made the Source of eternal salvation for all who obey him,) 
and is called of God a bishop, by the order of Melchisedec. (and is named the High Priest by God, in the order of Melchizedek.) 
Of whom there is to us a great word for to say, and able to be expounded, for ye be made feeble to hear. 
For when ye ought to be masters for a time (or For although ye ought to be teachers by this time), again ye need that ye be taught, which be the letters or the elements of the beginning of God’s words. And ye be made those, to whom is need of milk, and not of firm meat (or of solid food). 
For each that is (a) partner of milk, is without (a) part (or a portion) of the word of rightwiseness, for he is (but) a little child. 
But of perfect men is firm meat, of them that for custom have their wits exercised to (the) discretion of good and of evil. (But for grown men there is solid food, yea, for those who by custom have their minds, or their thoughts, exercised by the discretion of good and of evil.) 
