MARK.
Chapter 1.
The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. (The beginning of the Gospel, or the Good News, of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.) 
As it is written in Esaias, the prophet, (or As it is written by the prophet Isaiah), Lo! I send mine angel before thy face, that shall make thy way ready before thee. 
The voice of a crier in (the) desert, Make ye ready the way of the Lord, make ye his paths right. The voice of one crying in (the) desert, Make ye ready the way of the Lord, make ye his paths rightful. 
John was in (the) desert baptizing, and preaching the baptism of penance, into (the) remission of sins. (John was in the desert baptizing, and preaching the baptism of repentance, for the forgiveness of sins.) 
And all the country of Judea went out to him, and all (the) men of Jerusalem; and they were baptized of him in the flume of Jordan, or in the flood of Jordan, (or and they were baptized by him in the Jordan River), acknowledging their sins. 
And John was clothed with hairs of camels, and a girdle of skin was about his loins; and he ate honeysuckles, and wild honey, or and he ate locusts, and honey of the wood, 
and preached, and said, A stronger than I shall come after me, and I am not worthy to kneel down, and unloose, or to undo, or unbind, the thong of his shoes. 
I have baptized you in water; but he shall baptize you in the Holy Ghost (or but he shall baptize you with the Holy Spirit). 
And it was done in those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in (the) Jordan (or and was baptized by John in the Jordan River). 
And anon he went up (out) of the water, and saw (the) heavens opened, and the Holy Ghost or the (Holy) Spirit coming down as a culver, and dwelling on him. (And at once he went up out of the water, and saw the heavens opened, and the Holy Spirit coming down like a dove, and remaining on him.) 
And a voice was made from (the) heavens, Thou art my (be)loved Son, in thee I am pleased. 
And anon the Spirit put him forth into (the) desert. (And at once the Spirit led him forth into the desert.) 
And he was in (the) desert forty days and forty nights, and was tempted of Satan, and he was with beasts, and angels ministered to him. (And he was in the desert for forty days and forty nights, and was tested by Satan, and he was with beasts, and angels served him.) 
But after that John was taken, Jesus came into Galilee, and preached the gospel of the kingdom of God, (But after that John was taken captive, Jesus came to Galilee, and preached the Gospel, or the Good News, of the Kingdom of God,) 
and said, That the time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God shall come nigh; do ye penance or forthink ye, and believe ye to the gospel. (and said, The time is fulfilled, and the Kingdom of God hath come near; repent, and believe the Gospel or the Good News.) 
And as he passed beside the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon, and Andrew, his brother, casting their nets into the sea; for they were fishers. (And as he walked beside Lake Galilee, he saw Simon, and Andrew, his brother, throwing their nets into the lake; for they were fishermen.) 
And Jesus said to them, Come ye after me; I shall make you to be made fishers of men. 
And anon they left the nets, and (pur)sued him. (And at once they left their nets, and followed him.) 
And he went forth from thence a little, and saw James of Zebedee, and John, his brother, in a boat making their nets. 
And anon (or at once) he called them; and they left Zebedee, their father, in the boat with (the) hired servants, and they (pur)sued him (or and they followed him). 
And they entered into Capernaum, and anon in the sabbaths (or and at once on the Sabbath), he went into the synagogue, and taught them. 
And they wondered on his teaching; for he taught them, as he that had power, and not as the scribes. 
And in the synagogue of them was a man in an unclean spirit, and he cried out, (And in their synagogue was a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out,) 
and said, What to us and to thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? hast thou come to destroy us? I know that thou art the holy (One) of God. 
And Jesus threatened him, and said, Wax thou dumb (or Be silent), and go out of the man. 
And the unclean spirit wrenching him, and crying with a great voice, went out from him. 
And all men wondered, so that they sought within themselves, and said, (or so that they asked among themselves, and said), What thing is this? what new doctrine is this? for in power he commandeth to unclean spirits, and they obey to him. 
And the fame, or the tale, or (the) tiding(s), of him went forth anon into all the country of Galilee. (And the story about him went forth at once throughout all the province of Galilee.) 
And anon (or at once) they went out of the synagogue, and came into the house of Simon and of Andrew, with James and John. 
And the mother of Simon’s wife lay sick in the fevers; and anon they say to him of her (or and at once they told him about her). 
And he came nigh, and areared her up, and when he had taken her hand, anon the fever left her (or at once the fever left her), and she served them. 
But when the eventide was come, and the sun was gone down, they brought to him all that were of mal-ease, and them that had fiends. Forsooth the evening made, when the sun went down, they brought to him all having evil, and having devils.(But when the evening had come, and the sun had gone down, they brought to him all who were sick, and those who had demons.) 
And all the city was gathered at the gate. 
And he healed many, that had diverse sicknesses, and he cast out many fiends or devils, and he suffered them not to speak, for they knew him. (And he healed many, who had various sicknesses, and he threw out many demons, and he did not allow them to speak, for they knew who he was.) 
And he rose full early or in the morrowing, (or And he rose early in the morning), and went out, and went into a desert place, and prayed there. 
And Simon (pur)sued him (or And Simon followed him), and they that were with him. 
And when they had found him, they said to him, That all men seek thee. 
And he said to them, Go we into the next towns and cities, that I preach also there, for thereto or to (or for) this thing I came. (And he said to them, Let us go to the next towns and cities, so that I can also preach there, for I came for this purpose.) 
And he preached in the synagogues of them, and in all Galilee, and casted out fiends. (And he preached in their synagogues, and throughout all of Galilee, and threw out devils and demons.) 
And a leprous man came to him, and besought him, kneeling, and said, If thou wilt, thou mayest cleanse me, (or If thou desirest it, or If thou want to do it, thou can cleanse me). 
And Jesus had mercy on him, and stretched out his hand, and touched him, and said to him, I will, be thou made clean. 
And when he had said this, anon (or at once) the leprosy parted away from him or anon the leprosy went away from him, and he was cleansed. 
And Jesus threatened (or warned) him, and anon (or at once) put him out, 
and said to him, See thou, say to no man; but go, show thee to the prince of (the) priests, and offer for thy cleansing into witnessing to them, those things that Moses bade. (and said to him, See that thou tell no one; but go, show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing as a testimony to them, those things that Moses commanded.) 
And he went out, and began to preach, and to publish the word, so that now he might not go openly into the city, but be withoutforth in (the) desert places; and they came to him on all sides. 
