1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 15.
Soothly, brethren, I make the gospel known to you, which I have preached to you, which also ye have taken, in which ye stand, (Truly, brothers, I make the Gospel, or the Good News, known to you, which I have preached to you, and which ye have received, and in which ye stand,) 
by which also ye shall be saved; by which reason I have preached to you, if ye hold, if ye have not believed idly. (and by which ye shall be saved; for which reason I have preached to you, if ye will hold onto it, and if ye have not idly believed it.) 
For I betook to you at the beginning or in the first that thing which also I have received; that Christ was dead for our sins, by the scriptures; (For I delivered or I gave to you, from the beginning, that which also I have received; that the Messiah died for our sins, according to the Scriptures;) 
and that he was buried, and that he rose again in the third day, after the scriptures; (and that he was buried, and that he rose again on the third day, according to the Scriptures;) 
and that he was seen to Cephas, and after these things to (the) eleven; (and that he was seen by Peter, and afterward by the Eleven;) 
afterward he was seen to more than five hundred brethren together, of which many live yet, but some be dead; (afterward he was seen by more than five hundred brothers together, of whom many still live, but some of whom have died;) 
afterward he was seen to James, and afterward to all the apostles. (afterward he was seen by James, and afterward by all the apostles.) 
And last of all he was seen also to me, as to a dead-born child. (And last of all he was also seen by me, as if to a dead-born child.) 
For I am the least of the apostles, that am not worthy to be called (an) apostle, for I pursued the church of God (or for I persecuted God’s church). 
But by the grace of God I am that thing that I am; and his grace was not void in me. For I travailed more plenteously than all they; but not I, but the grace of God with me. (But by the grace of God I am what I am; and his grace was not given to me in vain. For I worked harder than all of them; but not me really, but the grace of God working through me.) 
But whether I, or they, so we have preached, and so ye have believed. 
And if Christ is preached, that he rose again from death or that he rose again from (the) dead, how say some men among you, that the again-rising of dead men is not? (And if it be preached, that the Messiah rose again from the dead, then how can some men among you say, that there is no resurrection of the dead?) 
And if the again-rising of dead men is not, neither Christ rose again from death. (And if there is no resurrection of the dead, then the Messiah did not rise again from the dead.) 
And if Christ rose not, our preaching is vain, our faith is vain. (And if the Messiah did not rise again, then our preaching is in vain, and our faith is in vain.) 
And we be found false witnesses of God, for we have said witnessing against God, that he raised Christ, whom he raised not, if dead men rise not again. (And we be found to be false witnesses about God, for we have said false testimony about God, that he raised the Messiah, whom he did not raise, if the dead do not rise again.) 
For why if dead men rise not again, neither Christ rose again; (Because if the dead do not rise again, then neither did the Messiah rise again;) 
and if Christ rose not again, our faith is vain; and yet ye be in your sins. (and if the Messiah did not rise again, then our faith is in vain; and ye still be in your sins.) 
And then they that have died or that (have) slept in Christ, have perished. (And then those who have died in the Messiah, have truly perished.) 
If in this life only we be hoping in Christ, we be more wretches than all men. (If it is only for this life that we have hope in the Messiah, then we be greater wretches than anyone.) 
But now Christ hath risen again from death or Now forsooth Christ rose again, from dead men, the first fruit(s) of dead men; (But the Messiah hath risen again from the dead, yea, he is the first fruits of the dead;) 
for death was by a man, and by a man is again-rising (or the resurrection) from death. +for soothly by a man (came) death, and by a man (the) again-rising of (the) dead. 
And as in Adam all men die, so in Christ all men shall be quickened. (And so as in Adam all men die, so in the Messiah all men shall be enlivened or shall be given life.) 
But each man in his order; the first fruit(s), Christ, or (the) first fruits, Christ, afterward they that be of Christ, that believed in the coming of Christ; (But each one in the proper order; the first fruits, the Messiah, afterward they who be of the Messiah, yea, those who believe at the coming of the Messiah;) 
afterward an end, when he shall betake the kingdom to God and to the Father, when he shall void all princehood, and power, and virtue. (and then the end, when he shall deliver the Kingdom to God the Father, when he shall make void, or shall do away, all princehood, and power, and authority.) 
But it behooveth him to reign, till he put all his enemies under his feet. 
And at the last, death the enemy shall be destroyed; 
for he hath made subject all things under his feet. And when he saith, all things be subject to him, without doubt except him that subjected all things to him. 
And when all things be subjected to him, then the Son himself shall be subject to him, that made all things subject to him, (so) that God be all things in all things. 
Else what shall they do, that be baptized for dead men, if in no wise dead men rise again? whereto be they baptized for them? (Or else what shall they do, who be baptized for the dead, if in no way the dead rise again? why then be they baptized for them?) 
And whereto be we in peril every hour? (And why be we in danger every hour?) 
Each day I die for your glory, brethren, which glory I have in Christ Jesus our Lord. (Every day I die for your glory, brothers, which glory I have in the Messiah Jesus our Lord.) 
If after man I have fought to beasts, or against beasts, at Ephesus, what profiteth it to me, if dead men rise not again? (or what is the benefit to me, if the dead do not rise again?) Eat we, and drink we, for we shall die tomorrow. 
Do not ye be deceived; for evil speeches destroy good conduct. +Do not ye be deceived by false teaching; forsooth evil speeches, or false doctrine, corrupt good virtues. 
Awake ye, just men, and do not ye do sin or and do not ye sin; for some men have ignorance of God, but to reverence, that is, to your shame, I speak to you (or I speak about you). 
But some man saith, How shall dead men rise again (or How can the dead rise again), or in what manner body shall they come? 
O! Unwise man, that thing that thou sowest, is not quickened, no but it die first; (O unwise man! that which thou sowest, is not brought back to life, unless it first die;) 
and that thing that thou sowest, thou sowest not the body that is to come, but a naked corn, (or a kernel, or a grain), as of wheat, or of some other seeds; 
and God giveth to it a body, as he will, and to each of (the) seeds a proper body. (and God giveth it a body, as he so desireth, yea, to each seed its own body.) 
Not each flesh is the same flesh (or All flesh is not the same flesh), but one is of men, another is of beasts, another is of birds, another is of fishes. 
And there be heavenly bodies, and there be earthly bodies; but one glory is of heavenly bodies, and another is of earthly bodies. (And there be heavenly bodies, and there be earthly bodies; but one beauty or splendour is of or for heavenly bodies, and another beauty or splendour is of or for earthly bodies.) 
Another clearness is of the sun, another clearness is of the moon, and another clearness is of the stars; and a star diverseth from a star in clearness. (And there is one beauty or splendour for the sun, another beauty or splendour is for the moon, and another beauty or splendour is for the stars; and a star diverseth from a star in its beauty or splendour.) 
And so the again-rising of dead men (or And so the resurrection of the dead). It is sown in corruption, it shall rise in uncorruption; 
it is sown in unnobleness, it shall rise in glory; it is sown in infirmity, it shall rise in virtue, (or it is sown in frailty and weakness, it shall rise in strength and power); 
it is sown a beastly body, it shall rise a spiritual body, (or it is sown as a fleshly body, it shall rise as a spiritual body). If there is a beastly body, (then) there is also a spiritual body; 
as it is written, The first man Adam was made into a soul living, the last Adam into a spirit quickening. (as it is written, The first Adam was made into a living soul, the last Adam into the enlivening, or the life-giving, Spirit.) 
But the first is not that body that is spiritual, but that that is beast-like (or that is fleshly), afterward that that is spiritual. 
The first man of earth is earthly; the second man of heaven is heavenly. (The first man from earth (is) earthly; the second Man from heaven (is) heavenly.) 
Such as the earthly man is, such be the earthly men; and such as the heavenly man is, such be also the heavenly men. 
Therefore as we have borne the image of the earthly man, bear we also the image of the heavenly man. (And so as we have worn the image of the earthly man, let us also wear the image of the heavenly Man.) 
Brethren, I say this thing, that flesh and blood may not wield the kingdom of God, neither corruption shall wield uncorruption or incorruption. (Brothers, I say this, that flesh and blood cannot possess the Kingdom of God, nor shall that which is corrupted or is mortal, possess incorruption or immortality.) 
Lo! I say to you (a) private or a mystery of holy things, (or Behold! I shall tell you a secret about the holy things). And all we shall rise again, but not all we shall be changed to the state of glory; 
in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, in the last trump; for the trump shall sound, and dead men shall rise again, without corruption or incorrupt, and we shall be changed. (in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet call; for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall rise again, without corruption, or incorrupt, or immortal, and so we shall be changed.) 
For it behooveth this corruptible thing to clothe uncorruption or incorruption, and this deadly thing to put away or to clothe undeadliness. (For it behooveth that this corruptible thing be clothed with incorruption, yea, that this mortal thing put on, or be clothed with, immortality.) 
But when this deadly thing shall clothe undeadliness, then shall the word be done or be fulfilled, that is written, Death is sopped up in victory. (But when this mortal thing shall be clothed with immortality, then shall the word be fulfilled that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory!) 
Death, where is thy victory? Death, where is thy prick? (Death, where is thy victory? Death, where is thy prod?) 
But the prick of death is sin; and the virtue of sin is the law. (And the prod of death is sin; and the power of sin cometh from the Law.) 
But do we thankings to God, that gave to us victory by our Lord Jesus Christ. (But we give thanks to God, who gave us victory by our Lord Jesus Christ.) 
Therefore, my dearworthy brethren, be ye steadfast, and unmoveable, being plenteous in (the) work of the Lord, (for)evermore witting that your travail is not idle in the Lord (or always knowing that your labour is never in vain, or futile, in, or done for, the Lord). 
