LUKE.
Chapter 10.
And after these things the Lord Jesus ordained also other seventy and twain (or two), and sent them by twain and twain before his face into every city and place, whither he was to come. 
And he said to them, There is much ripe corn, and few workmen; therefore pray ye the Lord of the ripe corn, that he send workmen into his ripe corn. (And he said to them, There is a great harvest, but few workers; and so beseech the Lord of the harvest, that he send workers to gather in his harvest.) 
Go ye, lo! I send you as lambs among wolves. 
Therefore do not ye bear a satchel, neither scrip, neither shoes, and greet ye no man by the way (or and greet no one on the way). 
Into whatever house that ye enter, first say ye, Peace to this house. 
And if a son of peace be there, your peace shall rest on him; but if none, it shall turn again to you, (or but if not, it shall return to you). 
And dwell ye in the same house, eating and drinking those things that be at them; for a workman is worthy (of) his hire. Do not ye pass from house into house. (And live in the same house, eating and drinking those things that be there with them; for a workman is worthy of his wages. Do not go from house to house.) 
And into whatever city ye enter, and they receive you, eat ye those things that be set or that be put to you (or eat those things that be put before you); 
and heal ye the sick men (or the sick people) that be in that city. And say ye to them, The kingdom of God shall come nigh to you, (or The Kingdom of God hath come near to you). 
And into whatever city ye enter, and they receive you not, go ye out into the streets of it, and say ye, 
We wipe off against you the powder that cleaved to us of your city; nevertheless know ye this thing, that the realm of God shall come nigh. (We wipe off against you the dust that cleaved to us from your city; nevertheless know ye this thing, that the Kingdom of God hath come near to you.) 
I say to you, that to Sodom it shall be easier or it shall be less pain(ful) than to that city in that day. 
Woe to thee, Chorazin; woe to thee, Bethsaida; for if in Tyre and Sidon the virtues had been done, which have been done in you, sometime they would have sat in haircloth and ashes, and have done penance. (Woe to thee, Chorazin! woe to thee, Bethsaida! for if in Tyre and Sidon the works of power, or the miracles, had been done, which have been done in you, long ago they would have sat in sackcloth and ashes, and have repented.) 
Nevertheless to Tyre and Sidon it shall be easier in the doom, than to you. (Nevertheless for Tyre and Sidon, it shall be easier at the Judgement, than for you.) 
And thou, Capernaum, art enhanced till to heaven; thou shalt be drenched down till into hell. (And thou, Capernaum, art exalted unto heaven? or art raised up into the sky? thou shalt be drowned down till into hell!) 
He that heareth you, heareth me; and he that despiseth you, despiseth me; and he that despiseth me, despiseth him that sent me. 
And the two and seventy disciples turned again with joy (or And the seventy-two disciples returned with joy), and said, Lord, also devils be subject to us in thy name. 
And he said to them, I saw Satan falling down from heaven, as (or like) lightning. 
And lo! I have given to you power to tread on serpents, and scorpions, and on all the virtue of the enemy (or and over all the power of the enemy), and nothing shall harm you. 
Nevertheless do not ye have joy in this thing, that spirits be subject to you; but joy ye, that your names be written in heavens. (Nevertheless do not rejoice over this, that the spirits, or the devils and the demons, be subject to you; rather rejoice, that your names be written in heaven.) 
In that hour he gladded in the Holy Ghost, and said, I acknowledge to thee, Father, Lord of heaven and of earth, for thou hast hid these things from wise men and prudent, and hast showed them to small or to little children. Yea, Father, for so it pleased before thee or for so it pleased to thee. (At that time he was filled with gladness by the Holy Spirit, or At that time he rejoiced in the Holy Spirit, and said, I acknowledge to thee, Father, Lord of heaven and of earth, for thou hast hidden these things from wise and prudent men, and thou hast shown them to little children. Yes, Father, for so it pleased thee.) 
All things be given to me of my Father (or Everything is given to me by my Father), and no man knoweth who is the Son, but the Father; and who is the Father, but the Son, and to whom the Son will show (it). 
And he turned to his disciples, and said, Blessed be the eyes, that see those things that ye see. 
For I say to you, that many prophets and kings would have seen those things, that ye see, and they saw not; and hear those things, that ye hear, and they heard not. 
And lo! a wise man of the law rose up, tempting him, and saying, Master, what thing shall I do to have everlasting life? (And behold! a man wise in the Law rose up to test him, and asked, Teacher, what should I do to get eternal life?) 
And he said to him, What is written in the law? how readest thou? 
He answered, and said, Thou shalt love thy Lord God of all thine heart or Thou shalt love the Lord thy God of all thine heart, and of all thy soul, and of all thy strengths, and of all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself. (He answered, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself.) 
And Jesus said to him, Thou hast answered rightly (or Thou hast answered correctly); do this thing, and thou shalt live. 
But he willing to justify himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbour? (But desiring to justify himself, he said to Jesus, And who is my neighbour?) 
And Jesus beheld (him), and said, A man came down from Jerusalem into Jericho or Some man came down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, and they robbed him, and wounded him, and went away, and left the man half alive. 
And it befell, that a priest came down the same way, and passed forth (or and passed by him), when he had seen him. 
Also a deacon, when he was beside the place, and saw him, passed forth. (Also a Levite, when he was beside the place, and saw him, passed by him.) 
But a Samaritan, going the way, came beside him; and he saw him, and had ruth on him (or and had compassion for him); Forsooth some Samaritan, making journey, came beside the way; and he seeing him, was stirred by mercy; 
and came to him, and bound together his wounds, and poured in oil and wine; and laid him on his beast, and led him in to an hostelry, and did the care of him (or and took care of him). 
And another day (or And the next day), he brought forth two pence, and gave (them) to the hosteller, and said, Have the care of him (or Take care of him); and whatever thou shalt give over, I shall yield to thee, when I come again. 
Who of these three, seemeth to thee, was (a) neighbour to him, that fell among the thieves? 
And he said (to him), He that did mercy into him, (or He who did mercy, or who was kind to him). And Jesus said to him, Go thou, and do thou in like manner. 
And it was done, while they went, he entered into a castle (or he went into a village); and a woman, Martha by name, received him into her house. 
And to this was a sister, Mary by name, which also sat beside the feet of the Lord, and heard his word(s). 
But Martha busied (herself) about the oft service or Forsooth Martha busied (herself) about much service. And she stood, and said, Lord, takest thou no keep (or carest thou not), that my sister hath left me alone to serve? therefore say thou to her, that she help me. 
And the Lord answered, and said to her, Martha, Martha, thou art busy, and art troubled about full many things; 
but one thing is necessary. Mary hath chosen the best part, which shall not be taken away from her. 
