ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 49.
The mind (or the memory) of Josiah made in the making of odour, is (like) the work of a pigment-maker. In each mouth his mind (or his memory) shall be made (as) sweet as honey, and as music or as melody in the feast of wine. 
He was (ad)dressed (or directed) of (or by) God in the penance of (the) folk, for he brought the people of his realm to penance for their sins, and to the worshipping of (the) very (or the true) God, and destroyed idolatry; and he took away the abominations of wickedness. 
And the heart of him governed (un)to the Lord or And he governed (un)to the Lord his heart; and in the days of sins he strengthened piety. 
Except David, Hezekiah, and Josiah, all the kings did sin. For why the kings of Judah left the law of (the) mighty God, and despised the dread of God. 
For they gave their realm to other men, and their glory to an alien folk. 
They burnt the chosen city of holiness; and they made the ways thereof forsaken or desert(ed) in the hand of Jeremy (or Jeremiah). 
For they treated evil him, which from the womb of the mother was hallowed or is (made) sacred, (or consecrated) a prophet, to turn upside-down, and to lose, (or to destroy), and again to build up, and make new. 
(It was) Ezekiel, that saw the sight of glory, which the Lord showed to him in (or on) the chariot of cherubim. 
For he made mind of or remem-bered(the) enemies in (the) rain, that is, in (the) word of his prophecy, to do well to (or for) them, that showed rightful or right ways. 
And the bones of (the) twelve prophets appear or spring out from their place; and they strengthened Jacob, and again-bought (or redeem-ed) them in (or by) the faith of their virtue. 
How shall we alarge (or magnify) Zerubbabel, that is, praise him worthily? for why and he was a sign (or a signet) in (or on) the right hand of God to Israel; 
and Jesus (or Joshua), the son of Jehozadak? which in their days build-ed an house or the house, and enhanced the holy temple to the Lord, made ready into everlasting glory. 
And Nehemiah in the mind of much time, that raised up to (or for) us the walls, that were cast down, and made the gates and (the) locks to stand; which Nehemiah raised up our houses. 
No man born in (or on the) earth was such as Enoch; for why and he was received (or taken up) from the earth. 
And Joseph, that was born a man, the prince of brethren, the steadfast-ness of (the) folk, the governor of (his) brethren, the establishing of (the) people; and his bones were visited, and they prophesied after (his) death. 
Seth and Shem, these got glory with men, and over each man in the generation of Adam. 
