JOB.
Chapter 42.
Forsooth Job answered to the Lord, and said, 
I know, that thou mayest (do) all things, and that no thought/and that nothing is hid from thee. 
Who is this, that covereth counsel without knowing? Therefore I have spoken unwisely, and those things that pass over-measure my knowing. (Who is this, you ask, who telleth out counsel without any true knowledge? And so yes, I have spoken unwisely, and of those things that, beyond measure, surpass my knowledge.) 
Hear thou, and I shall speak; I shall ask thee, and answer thou to me. (Listen thou, and I shall speak; and then, I pray, that thou shalt answer me.) 
By (the) hearing of (mine) ear I have heard thee, but now mine eye seeth thee (too). 
Therefore I reprove myself, and do penance in dead spark and ashes. (And so now I rebuke myself, and repent in dust and ashes.) 
And after that the Lord had spoken these words to Job, he said to Eliphaz (the) Temanite, My strong vengeance is wroth against thee, and against thy two friends; for ye have not spoken before me rightful things, as my servant Job (hath). (And after that the Lord had spoken these words to Job, he said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My strong vengeance is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends; for ye have not spoken rightly, or correctly, about me, like my servant Job hath.) 
Therefore take ye (un)to you seven bulls, and seven rams; and go ye to my servant Job, and offer ye (a) burnt sacrifice for you(rselves). Forsooth Job, my servant, shall pray for you; (and) I shall receive his face, (so) that folly be not areckoned to you; certainly ye have not spoken before me rightful thing, as hath my servant Job, (or for certainly ye have not spoken rightly, or correctly, about me, like my servant Job hath). 
Therefore Eliphaz (the) Temanite, and Bildad (the) Shuhite, and Zophar (the) Naamathite, went, and did, as the Lord had spoken to them; and the Lord received the face of Job (or and then the Lord received Job into his presence). 
Also the Lord was converted to the penance of Job, when he prayed for his friends. And the Lord added all things double, whichever were of Job. (And after that he prayed for his friends, the Lord was converted by the penance of Job or the Lord turned the fortunes of Job. And the Lord restored all things double to Job.) 
And all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all that knew him before, came to him; and they ate bread with him in his house, and they moved their head upon him; and they comforted him on all the evil, that the Lord had brought in upon him; and they gave to him each man a sheep, and a golden earring. (And all his brothers, and all his sisters, and all those who knew him before, came to him; and they ate bread with him in his house, and they shook their heads about him; and they comforted him over all the evil, which the Lord had brought in upon him; and each man gave him a sheep, and a gold earring.) 
Forsooth the Lord blessed the last things of Job, more than the beginning of him; and fourteen thousand of sheep were made to him, and six thousand of camels, and a thousand yokes of oxen, and a thousand female asses. (And the Lord blessed the last part of Job’s life, more than he did the beginning; and so Job had in possession fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand female donkeys.) 
And he had seven sons, and three daughters; 
and he called the name of the one daughter Jemima, and the name of the second daughter Kezia, and the name of the third daughter he called Kerenhappuch, that is, a horn of women’s ointment. (and he called his first daughter Jemima, and his second daughter Kezia, and his third daughter Kerenhappuch,that is, a box, or a container, of women’s ointment.) 
And there were not found so fair women in all the land, as were the daughters of Job; and their father gave heritage to them among their brethren. (And in all the land, there were not found any women as beautiful, as Job’s daughters; and their father gave each of them an inheritance, along with their brothers.) 
Forsooth Job lived after these beatings, or scourgings, an hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and the sons of his sons, till to the fourth generation; (And after these tribulations, Job lived a hundred and forty years, and he saw his sons, and the sons of his sons, unto the fourth generation;) 
and he was dead eld or and he died old, and full of days, that is, he had length and prosperity of life. 
