MATTHEW.
Chapter 26.
And it was done, when Jesus had ended all these words, he said to his disciples, 
Ye know, that after two days pask shall be made, and man’s Son shall be betaken to be crucified. (Ye know, that in two days it shall be Passover, and man’s Son shall be delivered, or shall be given over, to be crucified.) 
Then the princes of (the) priests, and the elder men of the people were gathered into the hall of the prince of (the) priests, that was said Caiaphas, (Then the high priests, and the elders of the people were gathered together in the hall of the High Priest, who was called Caiaphas,) 
and made a counsel to (take) hold (of) Jesus with guile, and slay him; and made a counsel, that they should (take) hold (of) Jesus with guile, and slay him;(and made a plan to take hold of Jesus by treachery, and kill him;) 
but they said, Not in the holiday, or Not in the feast day, (or Not on the Feast Day), lest peradventure noise (or a commotion) were made in the people. 
And when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leprous, 
a woman that had a box of alabaster of precious ointment, came to him, and shedded it out on the head of him resting (or and poured it out upon his head while he was resting). 
And the disciples seeing (this) had disdain, and said, Whereto is this loss? 
for it might be sold for much or for this might have been sold for much, and be given to poor men. 
But Jesus knew, and said to them, What be ye heavy to this woman? (or Why be so harsh with this woman?) for she hath wrought in me a good work or (for) she hath wrought a good work in me. 
For ye shall evermore have poor men with you, but ye shall not always have me. 
For this woman sending this ointment into my body, did (it)for to bury me. (For this woman poured this ointment upon my body, in preparation for my burial.) 
Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), wherever this gospel shall be preached in all the world, it shall be said, that she did this, in mind of him (or in remembrance of him). 
Then one of the twelve, that was called Judas Iscariot, went forth to the princes of (the) priests, or went to the princes of (the) priests, (or went to the high priests), 
and said to them, What will ye give to me, and I shall betake him to you? (or What will ye give to me, if I shall deliver him, or shall betray him, to you?) And they ordained to him thirty pieces of silver. 
And from that time he sought opportunity, to betray him. 
And in the first day of therf loaves the disciples came to Jesus, and said, Where wilt thou that we make ready to thee, for to eat (the) pask? (And on the first day of Unleavened Bread the disciples came to Jesus, and said, Where desirest thou that we prepare for thee, for to eat the Passover?) 
Jesus said, Go ye into the city to a man, and say to him, The master saith, My time is nigh; at thee I make (the) pask with my disciples. (Jesus said, Go into the city to a man, and say to him, The Teacher said, My time is near; I shall keep, or I shall eat, the Passover with my disciples at thine house.) 
And the disciples did, as Jesus commanded to them; and they made the pask ready (or and they prepared the Passover). 
And when the eventide was come, he sat to (the) meat, or he sat at the meat, (or he sat down for the meal), with his twelve disciples. 
And he said to them, as they ate, Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), that one of you shall betray me. 
And they full sorry, or And they made sorrowful greatly, (or And they greatly grieved), began each by himself to say, Lord, whether I am he? 
And he answered, and said, He that putteth with me his hand in the platter, shall betray me. (And he said, He who putteth his hand in the platter with me, shall betray me.) 
Forsooth man’s Son goeth, as it is written of him; but woe to that man, by whom man’s Son shall be betrayed; it were good to him (or it would be better for him), if that man had not been born. 
But Judas that betrayed him, answered, saying, Master, (or Teacher), whether I am he? Jesus said to him, Thou hast said (it). 
And while they supped, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, (or and gave thanks), and brake (it), and gave (it) to his disciples, and said, Take ye, and eat; this is my body. 
And he took the cup, and did thankings (or and gave thanks), and gave to them, and said, Drink ye all thereof; 
this is my blood of the new testament (or this is my blood of the new covenant), which shall be shed for many, into remission of sins. 
And I say to you, I shall not drink from this time, of this fruit of the vine, into that day when I shall drink it (a)new with you, in the kingdom of my Father. 
And when the hymn was said, they went out into the mount of Olives. (And after the hymn was sung, they went out to the Mount of Olives.) 
Then Jesus said to them, All ye shall suffer cause of stumbling in me, in this night; for it is written, I shall smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered. 
But after that I shall rise again (or But after that I am resurrected), I shall go before you into Galilee. 
Peter answered, and said to him, Though all men shall be caused to stumble in thee, I shall never be caused to stumble. 
Jesus said to him, Truly I say to thee (or I tell you the truth), for in this night before the cock crow, thrice thou shalt deny me. 
Peter said to him, Yea, though it behooveth that I die with thee, I shall not deny thee. Also all the disciples said (the same thing). 
Then Jesus came with them into a town, that is said Gethsemane (or Then Jesus came with them to a place, that is called Gethsemane). And he said to his disciples, Sit ye here, while I go thither, and pray. 
And when he had taken Peter, and (the) two sons of Zebedee, he began to be heavy and sorry or he began to be sorrowful and heavy in heart. 
Then he said to them, My soul is sorrowful (un)to the death; abide ye here, and wake ye with me (or wait here, and keep watch, or and stay awake, with me). 
And he went forth a little, and felled down on his face, praying, and saying, My Father, if it is possible, pass this cup from me, or My Father, if it is possible, (let) this cup pass from me; nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt, (or nevertheless not what I desire, or what I want, but what thou (desirest), or what thou (wantest to be done)). 
And he came to his disciples, and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, So, whether ye might not one hour wake with me? or So, might ye not one hour wake with me?(or So, could ye not keep watch with me, or could ye not stay awake with me, for one hour?) 
Wake ye, and pray ye, that ye enter not into temptation; for the spirit is ready, but the flesh is sick, or unstable, or unsteadfast. (Be on watch, or Stay awake, and pray, so that ye enter not into the test; for the spirit is ready, but the flesh is frail or weak.) 
Again the second time he went, and prayed, saying, My Father, if this cup may not pass, but I drink it, thy will be done. 
And again he came, and found them sleeping; for their eyes were heavied. 
And he left them, and went again, and prayed the third time, and said the same word(s). 
Then he came to his disciples, and said to them, Sleep ye now, and rest ye; lo! the hour hath nighed, (or behold! the hour hath approached, or the time is now), and man’s Son shall be betaken or shall be betrayed into the hands of sinners; 
rise ye, go we; lo! he that shall take (hold of) me, is nigh. (get up, let us go; behold! he who shall take hold of me, is near.) 
Yet while he spake, lo! Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great company, with swords and bats, or staves, (or clubs), sent from the princes of (the) priests, and from the elder men of the people, (or sent from the high priests, and from the elders of the people). 
And he that betrayed him, gave to them a token (or a sign), and said, Whomever I shall kiss, he it is; hold ye (onto) him (or seize him). 
And anon he came to Jesus, and said, Hail, Master; and he kissed him. (And at once he came to Jesus, and said, Good evening, Teacher; and he kissed him.) 
And Jesus said to him, Friend, whereto art thou come? Then they came nigh, and laid hands on Jesus, and held him (or and seized him). 
And lo! one of them that were with Jesus, stretched out his hand, and drew out his sword; and he smote the servant of the prince of (the) priests (or and he struck the servant of the High Priest), and cut off his ear. 
Then Jesus said to him, Turn thy sword into his place (or Return thy sword into its place); for all that take (up a) sword, shall perish by (the) sword. 
Whether guessest thou, that I may not pray (to) my Father, and he shall give to me now more than twelve legions of angels? 
How then shall the scriptures be fulfilled? for so it behooveth to be done. 
In that hour Jesus said to the people, As to a thief ye have gone out, with swords and bats, or staves, to take (hold of) me; day by day I sat among you, and taught in the temple, and ye held me not. (At that time Jesus said to the people, Ye have gone out like after a thief, with swords and bats, or clubs, to seize me; yet day after day I sat among you, and taught in the Temple, and ye did not seize me then.) 
But all this thing was done, (so) that the scriptures of (the) prophets should be fulfilled. Then all the disciples fled, and left him. 
And they held Jesus, and led him to Caiaphas, the prince of (the) priests (or the High Priest), where the scribes and the Pharisees, and the elder men of the people were come together, or where the scribes and the elder men of the people had come together. 
But Peter (pur)sued him afar, into the hall of the prince of (the) priests, (or But Peter followed him from afar, into the courtyard of the High Priest); and he went in, and sat (down) with the servants, to see the end. 
And the prince of (the) priests, and all the council sought false witnessing against Jesus, that they should (be)take him to (the) death; (And the High Priest, and all the council sought false testimony against Jesus, so that they could deliver him unto death;) 
and they found not, when many false witnesses were come. But at the last, two false witnesses came, 
and said, This (man) said, I may destroy the temple of God, and after the third day build it again or and after three days build it again. (and said, He said, I shall destroy the Temple of God, and after three days build it up again.) 
And the prince of (the) priests rose, and said to him, Answerest thou nothing to those things, that these witness against thee? (And the High Priest rose, and said to him, Answerest thou nothing about these things, that they testify against thee?) 
But Jesus was still. And the prince of (the) priests said to him, I conjure thee by the living God, that thou say to us, if thou art Christ, the Son of God. (But Jesus was silent. And the High Priest said to him, I command thee by the living God, that thou tell us, if thou art the Messiah, the Son of God.) 
Jesus said to him, Thou hast said (it); nevertheless I say to you, hereafter ye shall see man’s Son sitting at the right half of the virtue of God, and coming in the clouds of (the) heaven(s). (Jesus said to him, Thou hast said it; nevertheless I tell you, hereafter ye shall see man’s Son sitting at the right hand, or on the right side, of the power of God, and coming on the clouds of the heavens.) 
Then the prince of (the) priests rent his clothes, and said, He hath blasphemed; what yet have we need to witnesses? lo! now ye have heard blasphemy; (Then the High Priest tore his clothes, and said, He hath blasphemed; why do we need any more witnesses? behold! now ye have heard blasphemy;) 
what seemeth to you? And they answered, and said, He is guilty of death. 
Then they spat in his face, and smote him with buffets; and others gave strokes with the palm of their hands into his face, 
and said, Thou Christ, declare to us, or Thou Christ, prophesy to us, who is he that smote thee? (and mockingly said, O Messiah, declare to us, or prophesy for us, who is he that struck thee?) 
And Peter sat without in the hall (or And Peter sat outside in the courtyard); and a damsel or an handmaid came to him, and said, Thou were with Jesus of Galilee. 
And he denied before all men, and said, I know not what thou sayest. 
And when he went out at the gate, another damsel or another handmaid saw him, and said to them that were there, And this was with Jesus of Nazareth. 
And again he denied with an oath, For I knew not the man. 
And a little after (that), they that stood (there) came, and said to Peter, Truly and thou art one of them; for thy speech maketh thee known. 
Then he began to curse and to swear, that he knew not the man. And anon (or at once) the cock crew. 
And Peter bethought on the word(s) of Jesus, that he had said, Before the cock crow, thrice thou shalt deny me. And he went out, and wept bitterly. 
