LUKE.
Chapter 24.
But in one day of the week full early, they came to the grave, and brought sweet smelling spices, that they had arrayed or which they had made ready. (But very early on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb, and brought the sweet smelling spices, which they had prepared.) 
And they found the stone turned away from the grave. (And they found the stone rolled away from the entrance to the tomb.) 
And they went in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. 
And it was done, the while they were astonied in thought of this thing, lo! two men stood beside them in shining cloth or lo! two men stood beside them in shining clothing. (And it was done, while they were astonished in their thoughts over this, behold! two men stood beside them in shining cloaks.) 
And when they dreaded, and bowed their semblance into the earth, they said to them, What seek ye him that liveth with dead men? or What seek ye the living with the dead?(And they had fear, or they were afraid, and bowed their faces to the ground, but the men said to them, Why search for him who liveth among the dead?) 
He is not here, but is risen. Have ye mind, how he spake to you, when he was yet in Galilee, (or Remember, how he spoke with you, when he was still in Galilee), 
and said, For it behooveth man’s Son to be betaken into the hands of sinful men, (or and said, For it behooveth man’s Son to be delivered into the hands of sinners), and to be crucified, and the third day to rise again. 
And they bethought on his words. (And they remembered, and thought on his words.) 
And they went again from the grave (or And they went away from the tomb), and told all these things to the eleven, and to all the others. 
And there was Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary of James, and other women that were with them, that said to the apostles these things or that said these things to the apostles. 
And these words were seen to them as madness, and they believed not to them (or and they did not believe them). 
But Peter rose up, and ran to the grave (or and ran to the tomb); and he bowed down, and saw the linen clothes lying alone. And he went (away) by himself, wondering on that that was done. 
And lo! twain of them went in that day into a castle (or And behold! two of them went that day to a village), that was from Jerusalem the space of sixty furlongs, by name Emmaus. 
And they spake together of all these things that had befallen. 
And it was done, the while they talked, and sought by themselves, Jesus himself nighed (or approached), and went with them. 
But their eyes were holden, that they knew him not. (But their eyes were held, so that they did not know him.) 
And he said to them, What be these words, that ye speak together wandering, and ye be sorrowful? (And he asked them, What be these things, that ye talk about as ye be walking, and ye be so sad?) 
And one, whose name was Cleopas, answered, and said to him, Thou thyself art a pilgrim in Jerusalem (or Thou thyself art a visitor, or a stranger, in Jerusalem), or Thou alone art a pilgrim in Jerusalem (or Thou art alone and a visitor, or a stranger, in Jerusalem), and (so) hast thou not known, what things be done in it in these days? 
To whom he said, What things? And they said to him, Of Jesus of Nazareth, that was a man prophet, mighty in work and word before God and all the people; 
and how the high priests and our princes betook him into condemnation or into damnation of death, and crucified him. (and how the high priests and our leaders delivered him unto the damnation of death, and crucified him.) 
But we hoped, that he should have again-bought Israel, (or And we had hoped, that he would have redeemed, or ransomed, Israel). And now on all these things the third day is today, that these things were done. 
But also some women of ours made us afeared, which before daylight were at the grave; (And some of our women have made us afraid, who before daylight were at the tomb;) 
and when his body was not found, they came, and said, that they saw also a sight of angels, which said (or who said), that he liveth. 
And some men of ours went to the grave, and they found so as the women said, but they found not him. (And some of our men went to the tomb, and they found it just as the women had said, but they did not find him.) 
And he said to them, A! fools (or O fools!), and slow of heart to believe in all (the) things that the prophets have spoken. 
Whether it behooved not Christ to suffer these things (or Did it not behoove the Messiah to suffer these things), and so to enter into his glory? 
And he began at Moses and at all the prophets, and declared or expounded to them in all (the) scriptures, that were of him (or that were about him). 
And they came nigh to the castle, whither they went, (or And they came near to the village, where they were going). And he made countenance that he would go further. 
And they constrained him, and said, Dwell with us (or Remain with us), for it draweth to (the) night, and the day is now bowed down. And (so) he entered in with them. 
And it was done, while he sat at the meat with them (or while he sat down for the meal with them), he took bread, and blessed (it), and brake (it), and (then) took (it) to them or and (then) gave (it) to them. 
And the eyes of them were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished from their eyes. 
And they said together, Whether our heart was not burning in us, while he spake to us in the way, and he opened to us the scriptures? (And they said to each other, Were not our hearts burning in us, while he spoke to us on the way, and he opened the Scriptures to us?) 
And they rose up in the same hour, and went again into Jerusalem or (and) went again to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, (And they rose up at once, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the Eleven gathered together, and those who were with them,) 
saying, That the Lord is risen verily, and appeared to Simon. (and they were saying, Truly the Lord hath risen, or It is true that the Lord hath risen, and hath appeared to Simon.) 
And they told what things were done in the way (or And then they told them what had happened on the way), and how they knew him in (the) breaking of (the) bread. 
And while they spake these things, Jesus stood in the middle of them, and said to them, Peace (be) to you; I am (here), do not ye dread. (And while they spoke of these things, suddenly Jesus stood in their midst, and said to them, Peace be to you; I am here, do not fear, or do not be afraid.) 
But they were afraid and aghast, and guessed them(selves) to see a spirit. 
And he said to them, What be ye troubled (or Why be ye troubled), and thoughts come up into your hearts? 
See ye my hands and my feet, for I myself am (or for I am here). Feel ye, and see ye; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see that I have. 
And when he had said this thing, he showed (his) hands and feet to them. 
And yet while they believed not, and wondered for joy, he said, Have ye here anything that shall be eaten? or Have ye anything here that shall be eaten? 
And they proffered to him a part of a fish roasted, and an honeycomb. And they offered to him a part of a fish roasted, and a comb of honey. 
And when he had eaten before them, he took that that (was) left, and gave (it) to them; 
and he said to them, These be the words that I spake to you, when I was yet with you; for it is need(ful) that all things be fulfilled, that be written in the law of Moses, and in (the) prophets, and in (the) psalms, of me (or about me). 
Then he opened to them wit, that they should understand the scriptures. (Then he opened their minds, or their thinking, so that they could understand the Scriptures.) 
And he said to them, For thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer (or and thus it behooved the Messiah to suffer), and rise again from death the third day or and rise again from (the) dead the third day; 
and penance, and remission of sins to be preached in his name to all folks, beginning at Jerusalem. (and repentance, and forgiveness of sins to be preached in his name to all the nations and all the peoples, beginning at Jerusalem.) 
And ye be (the) witnesses of these things. 
And I shall send the promise of my Father into you; but sit ye in the city, till ye be clothed with virtue from on high, (or but remain in the city, until ye be clothed with power from on high). 
And he led them forth into Bethany, and when his hands were lifted up, he blessed them. 
And it was done, the while he blessed them or while he blessed them, he departed from them, and was borne (up) into heaven. 
And they worshipped (him), and went again into Jerusalem with great joy, 
and were (for)evermore in the temple (or and were always in the Temple), praising and blessing God. 
