WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
Chapter 11.
He (ad)dressed (or directed) the works of them, in the hands of an holy prophet. It right-ruled the works of them, in the hands of the holy prophet. 
They made journey by deserts, that were not inhabited; and they made little houses, or cottages, in desert places. 
They stood against kings, and a-venged them(selves) of (their) enemies. They stood against enemies, and of the enemies they venged themselves. 
They thirsted, and they inwardly called thee; and water (out) of (or from) a full high stone was given to them, and (the) rest of thirst was given to them(out) of (or from) an hard stone. 
For by which things the enemies of them suffered pains, for (the) default-ing of their drink, and the sons of Israel were glad, when they had plenty; by these things, when these failed to those enemies, it was done well with them. 
For soothly for the well of everlasting flood, thou gavest man’s blood to unjust men. 
And when they were made less or diminished, in the leading away of young children slain, thou gavest suddenly plenteous water to them or thou gave to them abounding water in manner not hoped (for); 
and showedest by the thirst, that was then, how thou wouldest enhance thy servants, and wouldest slay the adversaries of them. 
For when they were assayed, soothly they took chastising with mercy; they knew, how wicked or unpious men deemed with ire or with wrath, should suffer torments. 
Soothly thou admonishing as a father, provedest these men; but thou as an hard king asking condemnedest them (or the others). 
For why men absent and men present were tormented in like manner. 
For why double annoyance (or troubles) had taken them, and wailing with the mind (or the remembrance) of things passed. 
Soothly when they heard, that it was done well with themselves by their torments, they bethought on the Lord, and wondered on the end of the out-going. 
For at the end of the befalling, they worshipped (or honoured) him, whom they scorned (had) cast out in shrewd (or depraved) putting forth; and thou didest not in like manner to just men. 
Forsooth for unwise thoughts the wickednesses of them were punished; for some men erring worshipped dumb serpents or adders, and superfluous beasts, thou sentest into them a multi-tude of dumb beasts, into vengeance; 
(so) that they should know, that by what things a man sinneth, he is tormented also by these things or by those things also he shall be tormented. 
For why thine hand almighty or thine almighty hand, that made the world of matter unseen, was not un-mighty to send into them a multitude of bears, either or hardy lions, 
either beasts of new kind full of ire, and unknown beasts, either beasts frothing heat of fires, either bringing forth the odour of smoke, either sending out from the eyes hideous sparkles (or sparks); or of new kind of unknown beasts, and full of wrath, or spitting breathing(s) of fires, or bringing forth smell of smoke, or putting out grizzly (or dreadful) sparks from (the) eyes; 
of which beasts not only the hurting might destroy them, but also the sight or the looking might slay by dread. 
For why and without these beasts they might be slain by one spirit, and suffer persecution of those (or by them for) their own deeds, and be scattered by the spirit of thy virtue (or by the breath of thy power). But also thou hast disposed all things in measure, and in number, and in weight; 
for it was left ever to thee alone to be able to do much; and who shall against-stand the virtue (or the power) of thine arm? 
For as the tongue (or a pointer) of a balance, so is the world before thee; and as a drop of dew rising before the light or and as a drop of morrowtide dew, that cometh down into (or onto the) earth. 
And thou hast mercy of (or for) all things (or for all), for thou mayest or thou be able to (do) all things; and thou dissemblest, either forbearest, the sins of men, for penance. 
For thou lovest all things that be, and thou hatest nothing of those, that thou madest; for thou not hating any-thing ordainedest, either madest. 
But how might anything dwell, no but thou wouldest? or but if thou wouldest? (or if thou haddest not willed it?) either how should a thing be kept, that were not called of (or by) thee? 
But, Lord, thou lovest souls, thou sparest all things; for those things be thine. 
