LUKE.
Chapter 5.
And it was done, when the people came fast to Jesus, to hear the word of God, he stood beside the pool or the water of Gennesaret, (or he stood by Lake Gennesaret, that is, Lake Galilee), 
and saw two boats standing beside the pool or (at the edge of) the water; and the fishers were gone down, and washed their nets, (or and the fishermen had left them, and were washing their nets). 
And he went up into a boat, that was Simon’s, and prayed (or asked) him to lead it a little from the land; and he sat, and taught the people out of the boat. 
And as he ceased to speak, he said to Simon, Lead out into the depth, and slack ye your nets to take (some) fish. 
And Simon answered, and said to him, Commander, we travailed all the night, and took nothing, but in thy word I shall lay out the net. (And Simon answered, and said to him, Master, (or Teacher), we laboured all night, and took nothing, but at thy word I shall lay out the net.) 
And when they had done this thing, they (en)closed together a great multitude of fishes; and their net was broken. 
And they beckoned to fellows, that were in another boat, that they should come, and help them. And they came, and filled both the boats, so that they were almost drenched (or so that they were almost drowned). 
And when Simon Peter saw this thing, he felled down to the knees of Jesus, and said, Lord, go (away) from me, for I am a sinful man. 
For he was on each side astonied (or astonished), and all that were with him, in the taking of (the) fishes which they took. 
Soothly in like manner James and John, the sons of Zebedee, that were fellows of Simon Peter. And Jesus said to Simon, Do not thou dread (or Do not fear); now from this time thou shalt take men. 
And when the boats were led up to the land, they left all things, and they (pur)sued him (or and they followed him). 
And it was done, when he was in one of the cities, lo! a man full of leprosy; and seeing Jesus (he) fell down on his face, and prayed him (or and beseeched him), and said, Lord, if thou wilt, thou mayest make me clean. 
And Jesus held forth his hand, and touched him, and said, I will, be thou made clean. And anon the leprosy passed away from him (or And at once the leprosy went away from him). 
And Jesus commanded to him, that he should say to no man; But go, show thee to a priest, and offer for thy cleansing, as Moses bade, into witnessing to them (or as a testimony to them). 
And the word walked about the more of him (or And the story about him spread far and wide); and much people came together, to hear, and to be healed of their sicknesses. 
And he went into (the) desert, and prayed. 
And it was done in one of the days, he sat, and taught; and there were Pharisees sitting, and doctors of the law, that came of each castle of Galilee, and of Judea, and of Jerusalem; and the virtue of the Lord was to heal sick men. (And it was done on one of the days, he sat, and taught; and there were Pharisees, and teachers of the Law, sitting there, who had come from every village of Galilee, and from Judea, and from Jerusalem; and the power of the Lord was there to heal the sick.) 
And lo! men bare in a bed a man that was sick in the palsy or a man that was sick in palsy, (or And behold! men brought in a bed a man who was sick with palsy), and they sought to bear him in, and set (him) before him. 
And they found not in what part they should bear him in, for the (crowd of) people, and (so) they went upon the roof, and by the slates they let him down with the bed, into the midst, before Jesus. 
And when Jesus saw the faith of them, he said, Man, thy sins be forgiven to thee. 
And the scribes and the Pharisees began to think, saying, Who is this, that speaketh blasphemies? who may forgive sins, no but God alone? 
And as Jesus knew the thoughts of them, he answered, and said to them, What think ye evil things in your hearts? (or Why do ye think evil things in your hearts?) 
What is lighter (or is easier) to say, Sins be forgiven to thee, or to say, Rise up, and walk? 
But that ye know, that man’s Son hath power in earth to forgive sins, he said to the sick man in palsy, (or But so that ye know, that man’s Son hath power on the earth to forgive sins, he said to the man sick with palsy), I say to thee, rise up, take thy bed, and go into thine house. 
And anon he rose up before them (or And at once he got up in front of them), and took the bed in which he lay, and went into his house, and magnified God. 
And great wonder took all, and they magnified God; and they were full-filled with great dread, or and they were filled with great dread, (or and they were filled with much fearful reverence), and said, For we have seen marvelous things today. 
And after these things Jesus went out, and saw a publican, Levi by name, sitting at the tollbooth. And he said to him, (Pur)Sue thou me; (And after these things Jesus went out, and saw a tax-collector, named Levi, sitting at the tollbooth. And he said to him, Follow me;) 
and when he had left all (his) things, he rose up, and (pur)sued him (or and followed him). 
And Levi made to him a great feast in his house; and there was a great company of publicans, and of others that were with them, sitting at the meat. (And Levi made a great feast for him in his house; and there was a great group of tax-collectors, and others who were with them, sitting at the meal.) 
And the Pharisees and the scribes of them grudged, and said to his disciples, Why eat ye and drink with publicans, and sinful men? (And the Pharisees and their scribes grumbled, and said to his disciples, Why do ye eat and drink with tax-collectors, and sinners?) 
And Jesus answered, and said to them, They that be whole have no need to a leech, (or Those who be whole, or be well, have no need for a physician), but (rather) they that be sick or but they that have evil; 
for I came not to call just men, but sinful men to penance. (for I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.) 
And they said to him, Why (do) the disciples of John fast oft, and make prayers, also and of the Pharisees, but thine eat and drink? 
To whom he said, Whether ye may make the sons of the spouse to fast, while the spouse is with them? (To whom he said, Can ye make the sons of the spouse to fast, while the spouse is still with them?) 
But (the) days shall come, when the spouse shall be taken away from them, and then they shall fast in those days. 
And he said to them also a likeness (or a parable); For no man taketh a piece from a new cloth, and putteth it into an old clothing, (or For no man taketh a piece from a new cloak, and putteth it onto an old piece of clothing); else both he breaketh the new, and the piece of the new accordeth not to the old. 
And no man putteth new wine into old bottles; else the new wine shall break the bottles, and the wine shall be shed out, and the bottles shall perish. And no man putteth new wine into old wine vessels; else the new wine shall break the wine vessels, and the wine shall be shed out, and the wine vessels shall perish. 
But new wine oweth to be put into new bottles, and both be kept. But new wine is to be put into new wine vessels, and both be kept.(But new wine ought to be put into new bottles, and then both shall be kept or preserved.) 
And no man drinking the old, will anon (drink) the new (or will at once drink the new); for he saith, The old is the better or The old is better. 
