PSALMS.
Chapter 51.
To victory, the psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet came to him, when he entered to Bathsheba. God, have thou mercy on me; by thy great mercy. And by the muchliness of thy merciful doings; do thou away my wickedness. (For the choirmaster, a song by David, when Nathan the prophet came to him, after he had slept with Bathsheba. God, have thou mercy on me; because of thy great love. And in the multitude of thy merciful doings; do thou away my wickedness.) 
Moreover wash thou me from my wickedness; and cleanse thou me from my sin. 
For I acknowledge my wickedness; and my sin is evermore against me. (For I confess my sinfulness; yea, my sin is before me forevermore.) 
I have sinned to thee alone, and I have done evil before thee; that thou be justified in thy words, and overcome when thou art deemed. (I have sinned against thee alone, and I have done evil before thee; so that thou art justified with thy words, and proved right when thou judgest me.) 
For lo! I was conceived in wickednesses; and my mother conceived me in sins. (For behold! I was conceived in sinfulness; yea, my mother conceived me in sin.) 
For lo! thou lovedest truth; thou hast showed to me the uncertain things, and privy things of thy wisdom. (For behold! thou lovedest the truth; and thou hast shown me the uncertain things, and the secret things, of thy wisdom.) 
Lord, sprinkle thou me with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed; wash thou me, and I shall be made white more than snow, (or wash thou me, and I shall be made more white than snow). 
Give thou joy, and gladness to mine hearing; and bones made meek shall full out make joy. (Let me hear the sounds of joy, and of gladness; and then the bones, which thou hast broken and bruised, shall make great joy, or rejoice.) 
Turn away thy face from my sins; and do away all my wickednesses. 
God, make thou a clean heart in me; and make thou new a rightful spirit in my entrails. (God, make my heart clean in me; and put thou a new and right spirit deep within me.) 
Cast thou me not away from thy face; and take thou not away from me thine holy spirit. (Do not throw thou me away from before thee; and take thou not away thy holy spirit from me or and take thou not away thy Holy Spirit from me.) 
Give thou to me the gladness of thine health; and confirm thou me with the principal spirit. (Give thou to me the gladness of thy salvation, or of thy deliverance; and give thou to me a spirit willing to obey thee.) 
I shall teach wicked men thy ways; and unfaithful men shall be converted to thee. (I shall teach the wicked thy ways; and the unfaithful shall return to thee.) 
God, the God of mine health, deliver thou me from bloods, or sins; and my tongue shall joyfully sing (of) thy rightfulness. (God, the God of my salvation or the God of my deliverance, save thou me from bloodshed, or from death; and my tongue shall joyfully sing of thy righteousness, or of thy justice.) 
Lord, open thou my lips; and my mouth shall tell (out) thy praising. 
For if thou haddest would sacrifice, I had given it; truly thou shalt not delight in burnt sacrifice. (For if thou haddest desired a sacrifice, that is, an offering, I would have given it to thee; but truly thou delightest not in burnt sacrifice.) 
A sacrifice to God is a spirit troubled, that is, (one made) sorry for sin; God, thou shalt not despise a contrite heart, and made meek. (A sacrifice to God is a troubled spirit, that is, one made sorry because of sinning; God, thou shalt not despise a contrite and humble heart.) 
Lord, do thou benignly in thy good will to Zion; (so) that the walls of Jerusalem (may) be builded. 
Then thou shalt take pleasantly the sacrifice of rightfulness, (with) offerings, and burnt sacrifices; then they shall put calves on thine altar. (Then thou shalt be pleased with a righteous sacrifice, yea, with offerings, and burnt sacrifices; and then they shall put calves upon thy altar.) 
