WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
Chapter 10.
This wisdom of God kept him, that was formed first of God, the father of the world, when he alone was made (out) of nought. And this wisdom led him out of his trespass, and led or brought him out of the slime of the earth, 
and gave to him virtue (or power) to hold together all things, that is, gave to him the lordship over all lower things. 
As the unjust man in his ire went away from this wisdom, brotherhood perished by the ire of man-quelling. From this as the unrightwise went away in his wrath, by the wrath of manslaughter perished fraternity. 
For which thing when the water did away the earth, wisdom healed (it) again; governing a just or the rightwise man by a despisable tree. 
This wisdom also in the consent of pride, when nations had raised them-selves, knew a just man or knew the rightwise, and kept (him) without (com)plaint or blame to God; and this wisdom kept strong mercy in sons. 
And it delivered a just man or the rightwise fleeing from wicked or un-pious men perishing, when fire came down into the place of five cities. 
For which wicked men the land smoking is made desert, into witness-ing of waywardness, or shrewdness, (or depravity), and trees having fruits in uncertain time; and the mind of an unbelieveful soul standing an image of salt. 
For why men passing (by, or ignoring) wisdom, not only fell in this, that they knew not goods or (the) good things, but also they left to men the mind of their unwisdom, (so) that in these sins, which they did, they might not be hid. 
Forsooth wisdom delivered them from sorrows, that keep it. 
Soothly this wisdom led forth a just man or (the) rightwise by rightful or right ways, that fled from the ire or the wrath of his brother; and it showed him the realm or the kingdom of God, and gave to him the cunning (or the know-ing) of saints; it made him honest (or rich) in travails, and fulfilled his travails. 
It helped him in the fraud of deceivers or the guile of the men coming about to him, and made him honest, (or honourable, or rich). 
It kept him from (his) enemies, and defended him from deceivers; and it gave to him a strong battle, (so) that he should overcome, and know, that wisdom is the mightiest of all. 
This wisdom forsook not the just or rightwise man (when he was) sold, that is Joseph, when his brothers sold him to men of Ishmael, but delivered him from (the) sinners; and it went down with him into a ditch, that is, (in)to the prison of the king of Egypt; 
and it forsook not him in bonds, till it brought to him the sceptre of the realm, and power against them that oppressed him; and it showed them (to be) liars, that defouled him, and it gave to him everlasting clearness (or glory). 
This wisdom delivered a just or rightwise people, and wholly without (com)plaint or blame, from (the) nations that oppressed it. 
It entered into the soul of God’s servant, and he stood against hideous kings, in great wonders and miracles or in great wonders and signs. 
And it yielded to (the) just or rightwise men the meed of their travails, and led them forth in a wonderful or a marvellous way; and it was to them in (a) covering of the day, and in the light of stars by night. 
And it translated, either led over, them through the Reed Sea or the Red Sea; and bare them over through full much water. 
But it drenched (or drowned) down the enemies of them into the sea; and led them out from the depth of hells or the deepness of hell, that is, from the bottom of the sea. 
Therefore just or rightwise men take away the spoils of wicked or un-pious men; and, Lord, they magnified in song thine holy name, and praised together thine hand, (their) overcomer. 
For why wisdom opened the mouth of dumb men, and made the tongues of young children not speak-ing to be wise or (to be) fair speaking. 
