1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 2.
Forsooth the sons of Israel were Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun, 
Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
The sons of Judah were Er, Onan, and Shelah; these three were born to him of Shua, a daughter of Canaan. And Er, the first begotten (son) of Judah, was evil before the Lord, and the Lord killed him. (The sons of Judah were Er, Onan, and Shelah; these three were born to him of the daughter of Shua, of Canaan, or these three were born to him of Bathshua, a Canaanite. And Er, the first-born son of Judah, was evil before the Lord, and the Lord killed him.) 
And Tamar, the wife of the son of Judah, childed to him Pharez, and Zerah, (or bare him Perez, and Zerah); and all the sons of Judah were five. 
And the sons of Pharez were Hezron, and Hamul. (And the sons of Perez were Hezron, and Hamul.) 
And the sons of Zerah were Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara; five (al)together. 
The son of Carmi was Achar, that troubled Israel, and sinned in the theft of (the) thing hallowed to the Lord. 
The son of Ethan was Azariah. 
And the sons of Hezron, that were born to him, were Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai. 
And Ram begat Amminadab. And Amminadab begat Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah. 
And Nahshon begat Salma; of whom Boaz was born. (And Nahshon begat Salma; and Salma begat Boaz.) 
And Boaz begat Obed; which himself begat Jesse. (And Boaz begat Obed; and Obed begat Jesse.) 
And Jesse begat his first son, Eliab; the second, Abinadab; the third, Shimma; 
the fourth, Nethaneel; the fifth, Raddai; 
the sixth, Ozem; the seventh, David; 
whose sisters were Zeruiah, and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah were three, Abishai, Joab, and Asahel. 
And Abigail childed Amasa (or And Abigail bare Amasa), whose father was Jether (the) Ishmaelite. 
And Caleb, the son of Hezron, took a wife, Azubah, by name, of whom he begat Jerioth; and his sons were Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon, (or and her sons were Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon). 
And when Azubah was dead, Caleb took a wife, Ephrath, which childed Hur to him (or who bare him Hur). 
And Hur begat Uri; (and) Uri begat Bezaleel. 
After these things Hezron entered to the daughter of Machir, the father of Gilead, and he took her to wife, when he was of sixty years; and she childed Segub to him. (After these things Hezron went to the daughter of Machir, the father of Gilead, and he took her for his wife, when he was sixty years old; and she bare him Segub.) 
But also Segub begat Jair; and he had in possession three and twenty cities in the land of Gilead; 
and he took Geshur, and Aram, the cities of Jair, and Kenath, and the towns thereof, of seventy cities, (or but Geshur and Aram captured the cities of Jair, and Kenath, and their towns, sixty towns in all). All these were(of) the sons of Machir, the father of Gilead. 
And when Hezron was dead, Caleb entered into Ephratah. And Hezron had a wife Abiah, the which childed to him Ashhur, the father of Tekoa. (And when Hezron died, Caleb went to Ephratah, the wife of his father Hezron, and married her. And she bare him Ashhur, the founder of Tekoa.) 
And sons were born of Jerahmeel, the first begotten (son) of Hezron; (and) Ram was the first begotten son of him, and then Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Ahijah. (And sons were born to Jerahmeel, the first-born son of Hezron; and Ram was his first-born son, and then Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Ahijah.) 
Also Jerahmeel wedded another wife, Atarah by name, that was the mother of Onam. (And Jerahmeel wed another wife, who was named Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.) 
But and the sons of Ram, the first begotten (son) of Jerahmeel, were Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker. 
And Onam begat sons, Shammai, and Jada. And the sons of Shammai were Nadab, and Abishur; 
and the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, that childed to him Ahban, and Molid, (or who bare him Ahban, and Molid). 
And the sons of Nadab were Seled and Appaim; forsooth Seled died without children. 
And the son of Appaim was Ishi, the which Ishi begat Sheshan; certainly Sheshan begat Ahlai. 
And the sons of Jada, the brother of Shammai, were Jether, and Jonathan; but Jether died without sons; 
and Jonathan begat Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 
And Sheshan had not sons, but daughters, and a servant of Egypt (or and an Egyptian servant), Jarha by name; 
and he gave his daughter to wife to Jarha, which childed Attai to him. (and Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha for a wife, and she bare him Attai.) 
And Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad. 
Also Zabad begat Ephlal, and Ephlal begat Obed. 
Obed begat Jehu, Jehu begat Azariah, 
Azariah begat Helez, Helez begat Eleasah, 
Eleasah begat Sisamai, Sisamai begat Shallum, 
Shallum begat Jekamiah, (and) Jekamiah begat Elishama. 
And the sons of Caleb, the brother of Jerahmeel, were Mesha, the first begotten son of him, that is the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah, the father of Hebron. (And the sons of Caleb, the brother of Jerahmeel, were Mesha, his first-born son, who is the founder of Ziph; and Mareshah, the founder of Hebron.) 
Certainly the sons of Hebron were Korah, and Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema. 
And Shema begat Raham, the father of Jorkoam; and Rekem begat Shammai. 
The son of Shammai was Maon; and Maon was the father of Bethzur. 
And Ephah, the secondary wife of Caleb, childed (or bare) Haran, and Moza, and Gazez; and Haran begat Gazez. 
The sons of Jahdai were Regem, and Jotham, and Gesham, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph. 
Maachah, the secondary wife of Caleb (or the concubine of Caleb), childed Sheber, and Tirhanah. 
And (Maachah also bare) Shaaph, the father of Madmannah, (and she also) engendered Sheva, the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsa. (And Maachah also bare Shaaph, the founder of Madmannah, and Sheva, the founder of Machbenah, and the founder of Gibea; and Caleb’s daughter was Achsa.) 
These were (also) the sons of Caleb. The sons of Hur, the first begotten son of Ephratah, were Shobal, the father of Kiriathjearim (or the founder of Kiriathjearim); 
Salma, the father of Bethlehem; Hareph, the father of Bethgader. (Salma, the founder of Bethlehem; and Hareph, the founder of Bethgader.) 
And the sons of Shobal, the father of Kiriathjearim, that saw the half of the restings, (And the sons of Shobal, the founder of Kiriathjearim; and Haroeh, or and Reaiah, and half of the Manahethites.) 
and was of the kindred of Kiriathjearim, were Ithrites, and Puhites, and Shumathites, and Mishraites. Of these were born Zareathites, and Eshtaulites. (And those of the kindred of Kiriathjearim, were the Ithrites, and Puhites, and Shumathites, and Mishraites. From these were born the Zareathites, and the Eshtaulites.) 
The sons of Salma, the father of Bethlehem, and of Netophathites, were the crowns of the house of Joab, and half of the resting of Zorites. (The sons of Salma (were) Bethlehem, and the Netophathites, Ataroth, the house of Joab, half of the Manahethites, and the Zorites./The sons of Salma, the founder of Bethlehem, (were) the Netophathites, Ataroth, the house of Joab, half of the Manahethites, and the Zorites.) 
And the kindreds of scribes, dwelling in Jabez, singing, and sounding, and dwelling in tabernacles. These be Kenites, that came of the heat of the father of the house of Rechab. (And the kindreds, or the families, of the writers, or the copyists, living in Jabez; the Tirathites, and Shimeathites, and Suchathites. These be the Kenites, who joined with the house of Rechab.) 
