APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 15.
And I saw another sign in heaven, great and wonderful; seven angels having the seven last vengeances or plagues, for the wrath of God is ended in them. (And I saw another great and wonderful sight in heaven; seven angels having the seven last plagues, for God’s anger is ended with them.) 
And I saw as a glassen sea mingled with fire (or And I saw a sea like glass mingled with fire), and them that overcame the beast, and his image, and the number of his name, standing above the glassen sea, having the harps of God; 
and singing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the lamb, and said, Great and wonderful be thy works, Lord God almighty; thy ways be just and true, Lord, king of worlds. (and singing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, and said, Great and wonderful be thy works, Lord God Almighty; thy ways be righteous and true, Lord, the King of all worlds.) 
Lord, who shall not dread thee, and magnify thy name? for thou alone art merciful or pious; for all folks shall come, and worship in thy sight, for thy dooms be open(ed). (Lord, who shall not have fearful reverence for thee, and magnify thy name? for thou alone art pious or art holy; for all the nations and all the peoples shall come, and worship before thee, for thy judgements be opened.) 
And after these things I saw, and lo! the temple of the tabernacle of witnessing was opened in heaven; (And after these things I saw, and behold! the Temple of the Tabernacle of the Testimony was opened in heaven;) 
and seven angels having the seven plagues, went out of the temple, and were clothed with a stole clean and white, and were before-girded with golden girdles about the breasts (or and with gold bands around their chests). 
And one of the four beasts gave to the seven angels seven golden vials, full of the wrath of God, that liveth into (the) worlds of worlds. (And one of the four creatures gave to the seven angels seven gold basins, or seven gold bowls, full of God’s anger, who liveth forever and ever.) 
And the temple was filled with (the) smoke of the majesty of God, and of the virtue of him; and no man might enter into the temple, till the seven plagues of the seven angels were ended. (And the Temple was filled with smoke from the Majesty of God, and from his power; and no one could enter into the Temple, until the seven plagues of the seven angels were ended.) 
