APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 19.
After these things I heard as a great voice of many trumps in heaven, saying, Alleluia; praising, and glory, and virtue is to our God; (After these things I heard voices in heaven like the great sound of many trumpets, saying, Alleluia; praise, and glory, and power be to our God;) 
for true and just be the dooms of him, which deemed the great whore, that defouled or corrupted the earth in her lechery, and (a)venged the blood of his servants, of the hands of her. (for true and righteous be his judgements, who judged the great whore, who corrupted the earth with her lechery, and avenged the blood of his servants, at the hands of her.) 
And again they said, Alleluia. And the smoke of it ascendeth up, into the worlds of worlds, (or And its smoke goeth up forever). 
And the four and twenty elder men and the four beasts felled down, and worshipped God sitting on the throne, and said, Amen, Alleluia. (And the twenty-four elders and the four creatures fell down, and worshipped God sitting on the throne, and said, Amen, Alleluia.) 
And a voice went out of the throne, and said, All the servants of our God, say ye praisings to our God, and ye that dread God, small and great. (And a voice went out from the throne, and said, All the servants of our God, say praises to our God, and ye who have fearful reverence for God, great and small.) 
And I heard a voice as of a great trump, as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of great thunders, saying, Alleluia; for our Lord God almighty hath reigned. (And I heard a sound like a great trumpet, like the sound of many waters, and like the sound of loud thunder, saying, Alleluia; for our Lord God Almighty hath reigned.) 
Joy we, and make we mirth, or Joy we withinforth, and glad we withoutforth, and give glory to him; for the weddings of the lamb came, and the wife of him made ready herself (or and his wife-to-be made herself ready). 
And it was given to her, that she cover herself with white bisso shining; for why bisso is the justifyings of (the) saints. (And it was given to her, that she cover herself with shining white linen; because fine linen is the justifyings or the righteous deeds of God’s people.) 
And he said to me, Write thou, Blessed be they that be called to the supper of the weddings of the lamb. And he said to me, These words of God be true. 
And I felled down before his feet, to worship him. And he said to me, See thou, that thou do not; (for) I am a servant (along) with thee, and of thy brethren, having the witnessing of Jesus; worship thou God. For the witnessing of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. (And I fell down before his feet, to worship him. And he said to me, See that thou do not do that; for I am a servant along with thee, and with thy brothers, bearing the testimony of Jesus; worship God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.) 
And I saw heaven opened, and lo! a white horse, and he that sat on him was called Faithful and soothfast; and with rightwiseness he deemeth, and fighteth. (And I saw heaven opened, and behold! a white horse, and he who sat upon him was called Faithful and Truthful, or Faithful and True; and he judgeth with righteousness, and fighteth or wageth war.) 
And his eyes were as (the) flame of fire, and in his head many diadems (or and on his head were many crowns); and he had a name written, which no man knew, but he. 
And he was clothed in a cloth sprinkled with blood (or And he was clothed in a cloak covered with blood); and the name of him was called The Son of God or and the name of him was called The Word of God. 
And the hosts that be in heaven, (pur)sued him on white horses, clothed with bisso, white and clean. (And the hosts that be in heaven, followed him on white horses, and they were clothed in fine linen, white and clean.) 
And a sword sharp on either side or on each side came forth (out) of his mouth, that with it he smite folks (or and he shall strike the nations and the peoples with it); and he shall rule them with an iron rod. And he treadeth the presser of wine (or the winepress) of (the) strong vengeance of the wrath of almighty God. 
And he hath written in his cloth, and in the hip or in his hem, King of kings and Lord of lords. (And he hath written on his cloak, and on his hip, or on his thigh, King of kings and Lord of lords.) 
And I saw an angel, standing in the sun; and he cried with a great voice, and said to all birds that flew by the middle of heaven, (or and he cried with a loud voice, and said to all the birds that flew through the midst of the heavens), Come ye, and be ye gathered together to the great supper of God, 
(so) that ye eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of tribunes, and the flesh of strong men, and (the) flesh of horses, and of those that sit on them, and the flesh of all free men and of bondmen, and of small and of great. 
And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and the hosts of them gathered (or and their armies gathered), to make battle with him, that sat on the horse, and with his host. 
And the beast was caught, and with her the false prophet, that made signs before her (or who made miracles before her); in which he deceived them that took the character or the mark of the beast, and that worshipped the image of it. These two were sent quick (or alive) into the pool of fire, burning with brimstone. 
And the others were slain with the sword of him that sat on the horse, that cometh forth (out) of the mouth of him; and all (the) birds were full-filled with the flesh of them (or and all the birds were filled full with their flesh). 
