1 CHRONICLES.
Chapter 24.
These are the groups of the descendants of Aaron the first Supreme Priest: Aaron’s four sons were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
But Nadab and Abihu died before their father died, and they had no children. So their younger brothers Eleazar and Ithamar became the priests. 
Zadok, who was a descendant of Eleazar, and Ahimelech, who was a descendant of Ithamar, helped David to separate his descendants into two groups. Each group had certain duties. 
There were more leaders among the descendants of Eleazar than there were among the descendants of Ithamar. So they appointed 16 leaders from Eleazar’s descendants and eight leaders from Ithamar’s descendants. 
There were temple officials and priests, including descendants of both Eleazar and Ithamar, to make sure that the work was divided fairly. So they decided what work each person would do by ◄casting lots/throwing marked stones►. 
Shemaiah, the son of Nethanel, who was a descendant of Levi, wrote down the names of the leaders of each group while David and his officials were watching. Zadok, the Supreme Priest, and Ahimelech his assistant, and the leaders of the families of the priests and of the families of the other descendants of Levi also watched. 
Jehoiarib was the first one whose name was selected by casting lots/throwing marked stones. Next Jedaiah was selected. 
Next, Harim was selected. Next, Seorim was selected. 
Next, Malkijah was selected. Next, Mijamin was selected. 
Next, Hakkoz was selected. Next, Abijah was selected. 
Next, Jeshua was selected. Next, Shecaniah was selected. 
Next, Eliashib was selected. Next, Jakim was selected. 
Next, Huppah was selected. Next, Jeshebeab was selected. 
Next, Bilgah was selected. Next, Immer was selected. 
Next, Hezir was selected. Next, Happizzez was selected. 
Next, Pethahiah was selected. Next, Jehezkel was selected. 
Next, Jakin was selected. Next, Gamul was selected. 
Next, Delaiah was selected. Next, Maaziah was selected. 
Those were the men who were chosen to be the leaders of the groups that would serve in the temple, obeying the regulations that were set down by Aaron, regulations which Yahweh, the God to whom the Israeli people belonged, had given to him. 
This is a list of some of the other descendants of Levi: Amram was the ancestor of Shubael and Jehdeiah. 
Rehabiah was the ancestor of Isshiah, the oldest son in his family. 
Izhar was the father of Shelomoth and the grandfather of Jahath. 
Kohath’s son Hebron had four sons: Jeriah and his younger brothers Amariah, Jahaziel, and Jekameam. 
Uzziel was the father of Micah and the grandfather of Shamir. 
Micah’s younger brother was the father of Zechariah. 
The sons of Merari were Mahli, Mushi, and Jaaziah. 
Jaaziah thad four sons: Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri. 
Mahli’s son Eleazar did not have any sons. 
From the descendants of Mahli’s second son Kish there was Jerahmeel. 
The sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. Those were descendants of Levi who were listed according to the leaders of their families. 
The jobs they would do were decided by ◄casting lots/throwing marked stones►, like their fellow Israelis, the descendants of Aaron, did. They cast lots {The lots were cast} while King David, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the leaders of the families of the priests and the other descendants of Levi watched. They gave the same jobs to the families of each oldest brother and each youngest brother. 
