PSALMS.
Chapter 136.
Thank Yahweh, because he does good things for us; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
Thank God, the one who is greater than all other gods; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
Thank the Lord who is greater than all other lords/rulers; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He is the only one who performs great miracles; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He is the one who by being very wise created the heavens; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He is the one who caused the ground to rise up above the deep waters; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He is the one who created great lights in the sky; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He created the sun to shine in the daytime; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He created the moon and stars to shine during the nighttime; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He is the one who killed the firstborn males in Egypt; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He led the Israeli people out of Egypt; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
With his ◄strong hand/great power► he led them out; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He is the one who caused the Red Sea to divide; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He enabled the Israeli people to walk through it on dry land; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
But he caused the king of Egypt and his army to drown in it; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He is the one who led his people safely through the desert; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He killed powerful kings; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He killed kings who were famous; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He killed Sihon, the king of the Amor people-group; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He killed Og, the king of Bashan region; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He gave their lands to us, his people; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He gave those lands to us people of Israel, who serve him; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He is the one who did not forget about us when we were defeated by our enemies; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He rescued us from our enemies; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
He is the one who gives food to all living creatures; his faithful love for us endures forever. 
So thank God, who lives in heaven, for all those things, because his faithful love for us endures forever! 
