GENESIS.
Chapter 30.
Rachel realized that she was not becoming pregnant and giving birth to any children for Jacob. So she became jealous of her older sister, Leah, because Leah had given birth to four sons. She said to Jacob, “Enable me to become pregnant and give birth to children. If you do not do that, I think I will die!” 
Jacob became angry with Rachel and said, “◄I am not God!/Am I God?► RHQ He is the one who has prevented you from becoming pregnant!” 
Then she said, “Look, here is my female slave, Bilhah. ◄Sleep with/Have sex with► EUP her, so that she may become pregnant and give birth to children for me. In that way it will be as though ◄I have children/her children are mine►.” 
So she gave him her slave, Bilhah, to be another wife for him, and Jacob had sex EUP with her. 
She became pregnant and bore Jacob a son. 
Rachel said, “God has ◄vindicated me/judged my case and has decided that what I have done is right►. He has also heard my requests and has given me a son.” So she named him Dan, which sounds like the Hebrew word that means ‘he judged’. 
Later, Rachel’s slave Bilhah became pregnant again and gave birth to another son for Jacob. 
Then Rachel said, “I have had a great struggle to have children like my older sister, but truly I have a son.” So she named him Naphtali, which sounds like the Hebrew word that means ‘struggle’. 
When Leah realized that she was not becoming pregnant and giving birth to any more children, she took her female slave, Zilpah, and gave her to Jacob to be another wife for him. 
Zilpah soon became pregnant and gave birth to a son for Jacob. 
Leah said, “I am truly fortunate!” So she named him Gad, which means ‘fortunate’. 
Later Leah’s slave, Zilpah, gave birth to another son for Jacob. 
Leah said, “Now I am very happy, and people will call me happy.” So she named him Asher, which means ‘happy.’ 
When it was time to harvest wheat, Reuben went out into the fields and saw some ◄mandrakes/plants that women eat to help them to become pregnant►. He brought some of them to his mother Leah. But Rachel saw them and said to Leah, “Please give me some of those plants that your son brought to you!” 
But Leah said to her, “No! ◄It was bad that you stole my husband!/Is it not bad enough that you stole my husband?► RHQ Now ◄are you going to take my son’s mandrake plants?/You want to take my son’s mandrake plants also, so that you can become pregnant!►” RHQ So Rachel said, “All right, Jacob can sleep with you tonight, if you give me some of your son’s mandrake plants.” So Leah ◄agreed/gave her some►. 
When Jacob returned from the wheat fields that evening, Leah went out to meet him. She said, “You must sleep with me tonight, because I gave Rachel some of my son’s mandrakes that enable women to become pregnant, to pay her for allowing us to do that.” So Jacob slept with her that night. 
God answered Leah’s prayers, and she became pregnant and bore a fifth son to Jacob. 
Leah said, “God has rewarded me for giving my slave to my husband to be another wife for him.” So she named him Issachar, which sounds like the Hebrew word that means ‘reward’. 
Leah became pregnant again and bore a sixth son for Jacob. 
Leah said, “God has given me a precious gift. ◄This time/Now► my husband will honor/respect me, because I have given birth to six sons for him.” So she named him Zebulon, which sounds like the Hebrew word that means ‘accepted gift’. 
Later she gave birth to a daughter, and named her Dinah. 
Then God thought about what Rachel wanted. He heard her prayers and enabled her to become pregnant. 
She became pregnant and gave birth to a son. She said, “God has caused that no longer will I be ashamed for not having children.” 
She named him Joseph, which sounds like the Hebrew words that mean ‘may he give another’  and she said, ‘ want Yahweh to give me another son.’ 
After Rachel had given birth to Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, “Now allow me to quit working for you and let me return to my own land. 
You know the work that I have done for you for a long time to get my wives. So let me take my wives and my children, and leave.” 
But Laban said to him, “If you are pleased with me, stay here, because I have found out by performing a magic ritual that Yahweh has blessed me because of what you have done for me. 
Tell me what you want me to pay you for continuing to work for me, and that is what I will pay you.” 
Jacob replied, “You know how I have worked for you, and you know that your livestock have increased greatly as I have taken care of them. 
You had only a few animals before I came here. But now you have very many, and Yahweh has caused them to increase greatly in number wherever I have taken them. But now I need to start taking care of the needs of my own family.” 
Laban replied, “What do you want me to give you?” Jacob replied, “I do not want you to pay me anything. But if you will do this one thing for me, I will continue to take care of your flocks and protect them. 
Allow me to go and look at all of your flocks today and remove from them all the speckled sheep, all the spotted sheep, and every dark-colored lamb, all the goats that are speckled, and all the goats that are spotted, and keep them for myself. They will be my wages. 
In that way, in the future, you will be able to know whether I have been honest regarding what you have paid me. If any of my goats are neither speckled or spotted, or if any of my lambs are not dark-colored, you will know that I have stolen them from you.” 
Laban agreed and said, “Okay, we will do as you have said.” 
But that same day Laban removed all the male goats that had black and white stripes on them or were spotted, and all the female goats that were speckled or spotted, all the goats that were partly white, and all the dark-colored lambs. He separated them and told his sons to take care of them. 
Then he took these flocks and walked a distance of three days, in order that he could be that far from Jacob. Jacob continued to take care of the rest of Laban’s flocks. 
Then Jacob cut some branches of ◄poplar, almond, and plane trees/three kinds of trees that had white wood►. He peeled strips of bark from the branches, so that where the bark had been peeled off, the branches were light in color. 
Then he placed the peeled branches in the troughs where they put the water for the animals to drink, so that the branches would be in front of the flocks when they came to drink. 
The animals also mated in front of the branches, and eventually they gave birth to animals that were speckled, or to animals that were spotted, or to animals that had black and white stripes on them. 
Furthermore, Jacob separated the female sheep in his flock from the other sheep and goats in Laban’s flock. And when his female sheep mated, he made them look toward the animals that belonged to Laban that had black and white stripes on them, and the dark-colored animals. He did that so that the female sheep would give birth to animals that were striped or dark-colored. By doing that, he made bigger flocks for himself, and he kept them separate from Laban’s flocks. 
In addition, whenever the stronger female sheep were ready to mate, Jacob put some of those peeled branches in the troughs in front of them, so that they would mate in front of the branches. 
But when weak animals were ready to mate, he did not put the branches in their troughs. So the weak ones became part of Laban’s flock, and the strong ones became part of Jacob’s flock. 
As a result, Jacob became very rich. He owned many large flocks of sheep and goats, and many male and female slaves, and many camels and donkeys. 
