JOB.
Chapter 8.
Then Bildad, from the Shuah area, spoke to Job. He said, 
“Job, how much longer will you talk like this? What you say is only hot air. 
Almighty God certainly never does RHQ what is unfair/unjust. He always does LIT what is right/fair. 
So, it is evident that your children have sinned against him, therefore he has caused them to be punished for evil things that they have done. 
But, if you will now earnestly request DOU Almighty God to help you, 
and if you are pure and honest/righteous, he will surely do something good for you and reward you by giving your family back to you and enabling you to prosper. 
And even though you think that you were not very prosperous/wealthy before, during the last part of your life you will become very wealthy. 
“I request you to think about what happened long ago and consider what our ancestors found out. 
It seems as though we were born only yesterday and we know very little HYP; our time here on the earth disappears quickly, like a shadow MET. 
So, why do you not allow your ancestors to teach you and tell you something? Allow them to tell you from what they learned! 
Papyrus can certainly not RHQ grow in places where there is no marsh/swamp; reeds certainly cannot RHQ flourish/grow where there is no water. 
If they do not have enough water, while they are still blossoming, they wither more quickly than other plants wither. 
Those who do not pay attention to what God says are like those reeds; godless people stop confidently expecting that good things will happen to them. 
The things they confidently expect to happen do not happen; things they trust will help them are as fragile as MET a spider’s web. 
If they lean against a house (OR, trust in their wealth; OR, lean on a spider web), it does not ◄endure/protect them► LIT; they cling to things to be protected, but those things do not remain firm. 
Godless people are like plants MET that are watered before the sun rises; their shoots spread all over the gardens. 
The roots of those plants twist around piles of stones and cling tightly to rocks. 
But if those plants are pulled out, it is as though the place where they were planted says ‘They were never here!’ And that is what happens to wicked people who do not heed what God says. 
Truly, evil people MET are not joyful IRO for a long time; other people come and take their places. 
:So, I tell you, Job, God will not reject you if you are truly godly/righteous, but he does not help IDM evil people. 
He will enable you MTY to continually laugh and to always shout joyfully. 
But those who hate you will be very ashamed, and the homes of wicked people will disappear.” 
