PSALMS.
Chapter 60.
I prayed, “God, you have rejected us Israelis! Because you have been angry with us, you have enabled our enemies to break through our ranks. Please enable us to be strong again! 
When we were defeated, it was as though MET there was a big earthquake in our land that caused the ground to split open. So now, just as only you can cause the cracks in the land to disappear, help our army to be strong again, because it is as though our country is ◄falling apart/being destroyed►. 
You have caused us, your people, to suffer very much; it is as though you forced us to drink strong wine that caused us to stagger around after we became drunk. 
But you have raised a battle flag for those who revere you in order that they can gather around it and not be killed by the enemies’ arrows. 
Answer our prayers and enable us by your power MTY to defeat our enemies in order that we, the people whom you love, will be saved.” 
Then God answered my prayer and spoke from his temple, saying, “Because I have conquered your enemies, I will divide up everything in Shechem city, and I will distribute it among my people the land in Succoth Valley. 
The Gilead region is mine; the people of the tribe of Manasseh are mine; the tribe of Ephraim is like my helmet MET; and the tribe of Judah is like the ◄scepter/stick that I hold which shows that I am the ruler► MET; 
but the Moab region is like my washbasin MET; I throw my sandal in the Edom area to show that it belongs to me; I shout triumphantly because I have defeated the people of the Philistia area.” 
Because I want to defeat the people of Edom, ◄who will lead my army triumphantly to their capital city that has strong walls around it?/I want someone to lead my army triumphantly to their capital city that has strong walls around it.►” RHQ 
So, God, we desire/hope that RHQ you have not truly abandoned us, and that you will go with us when our armies march out to fight our enemies. 
We need you to help us when we fight against our enemies, because the help that humans can give us is worthless. 
But with you helping us, we shall win; you will enable us to defeat our enemies. 
