1 CHRONICLES.
Chapter 3.
Six sons of King David were born in Hebron city. His oldest son was Amnon, whose mother Ahinoam was from Jezreel city. His next son was Daniel, whose mother was Abigail from Carmel city. 
His next son was Absalom, whose mother was Maacah, the daughter of Talmai, the king who ruled in Geshur town. His next son was Adonijah, whose mother was Haggith. 
The next son was Shephatiah, whose mother was Abital. His youngest son was Ithream, whose mother was Eglah. 
They were all born in Hebron, where David ruled for 7-1/2 years. After that, David ruled in Jerusalem for 33 years. 
Many of David’s children were born in Jerusalem. Bathsheba, the daughter of Ammiel, gave birth to four of his sons: Shammua (OR, Shimea), Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon. 
Nine other sons of David were also born there. They were Ibhar, Elishua (OR, Elishama), Eliphelet, 
Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, 
Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet. 
In addition to all those sons, David’s slave wives also gave birth to sons. David also had one daughter whose name was Tamar. 
Solomon’s son was King Rehoboam. Rehoboam’s son was King Abijah. Abijah’s son was King Asa. Asa’s son was King Jehoshaphat. 
Jehoshaphat’s son was King Jehoram (OR, Joram). Jehoram’s son was King Ahaziah. Ahaziah’s son was King Joash. 
Joash’s son was King Amaziah. Amaziah’s son was King Azariah. Azariah’s son was King Jotham. 
Jotham’s son was King Ahaz. Ahaz’s son was King Hezekiah. Hezekiah’s son was King Manasseh. 
Manasseh’s son was King Amon. Amon’s son was King Josiah. 
Josiah’s oldest son was Johanan. His other sons were Jehoiakim, Zedekiah, and Shallum. 
Jehoiakim’s sons were Jehoiachin (OR, Jeconiah) and Zedekiah. 
King Jehoiachin was captured and taken to Babylon. His sons were Shealtiel, 
Malkiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah. 
Pedaiah’s sons were Zerubbabel and Shimei. Two of Zerubbabel’s sons were Meshullam and Hananiah, and their sister was Shelomith. 
Zerubbabel’s five other sons were Hashubah, Ohel, Berekiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-Hesed. 
The descendants of Hananiah were Pelatiah and Jeshaiah. Jeshaiah’s son was Rephaiah. Rephaiah’s son was Arnan. Arnan’s son was Obadiah. Obadiah’s son was Shecaniah. 
Shecaniah’s son was Shemaiah. Shemaiah’s five sons were Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat. 
Neariah’s three sons were Elioenai, Hizkiah, and Azrikam. 
Elioenai’s seven sons were Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani. 
