1 Chronicles.
Chapter 1.
The first person God created was Adam. Adam’s son was Seth. Seth’s son was Enosh. Enosh’s son was Kenan. 
Kenan’s son was Mahalalel. Mahalalel’s son was Jared. Jared’s son was Enoch. 
Enoch’s son was Methuselah. Methusalah’s son was Lamech. Lamech’s son was Noah. 
Noah’s sons were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
The sons (OR, descendants) of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras. 
The sons (OR, descendants) of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah. 
The descendants of Javan were Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim. 
The sons of Ham were Cush, Mizraim (OR, Egypt), Put, and Canaan. 
The descendants of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons (OR, descendants) of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan. 
Another descendant of Cush was Nimrod. When he grew up, he became a mighty warrior on the earth. 
Mizraim (OR, Egypt) was the ancestor of the Lud people-group, the Anam people-group, the Lehab people-group, the Naphtuh people-group, 
the Pathrus people-group, the Casluh people-group, and the Caphtor people-group. The people of the Philistia region were descended from the Casluh people-group. 
Canaan’s first son was Sidon. He was also the ancestor of the Heth people-group, 
the Jebus people-group, the Amor people-group, the Girgash people-group, 
the Hiv people-group, the Ark people-group, the Sin people-group, 
the Arvad people-group, the Zemar people-group, and the Hamath people-group. 
The sons of Shem were Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram. Aram’s sons were Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech. 
Arphaxad was the father of Shelah, who was the father of Eber. 
Eber had two sons. One was named Peleg which sounds like the word that means ‘divided’ because during the time that he lived, the people on the earth were divided into various language groups. Peleg’s younger brother was Joktan. 
Joktan was the ancestor of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, 
Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 
Obal, Abimael, Sheba, 
Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. 
The descendants of Shem, in order from him to Abraham, were Arphaxad, Shelah, 
Eber, Peleg, Reu, 
Serug, Nahor, Terah, 
and Abram, whose name was later changed to Abraham. 
Abraham’s sons were Isaac and Ishmael. 
The son of Abraham’s slave wife Hagar was Ishmael. Ishmael’s twelve sons were Nebaioth, Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, 
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema, 
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. 
After Abraham’s wife Sarah died, he took another wife named Keturah. The sons of Abraham and Keturah were Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. Jokshan’s sons were Sheba and Dedan. 
Midian’s sons were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. 
The son of Abraham and his wife Sarah was Isaac, and Isaac’s sons were Esau and Jacob, whose name was later changed to Israel. 
The sons of Esau were Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. 
The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho (OR, Zephi), Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek. 
Reuel’s sons were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. 
Another descendant of Esau was Seir. His descendants lived in the Edom region. Seir’s sons were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. 
Lotan’s sons were Hori and Homam, and Lotan’s sister was Timna. 
Shobal’s sons were Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam. Zibeon’s sons were Aiah and Anah. 
Anah’s son was Dishon. 1 Dishon’s sons were Hemdan (OR, Hamran), Eshban, Ithran, and Keran. 
Ezer’s sons were Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan (OR, Jaakan). Dishan’s sons were Uz and Aran. 
These are the names of the kings that ruled the Edom region before any kings ruled over Israel: Bela, the son of Beor, was king in Edom, and the name of the city in which he lived was Dinhabah. 
When Bela died, Jobab, the son of Zerah from Bozrah city, became the king. 
When Jobab died, Husham became the king. He was from the region where the Teman people-group lived. 
When Husham died, Hadad, the son of Bedad, became the king. He ruled in Avith city. Hadad’s army defeated the army of the Midian people-group in the Moab region. 
When Hadad died, Samlah became the king. He was from Masrekah town. 
When Samlah died, Shaul became the king. He was from Rehoboth city along the Euphrates river. 
When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan, the son of Achbor, became the king. 
When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad became the king. He was from Pau city. His wife’s name was Mehetabel; she was the daughter of Matred and the granddaughter of Me-Zahab. 
Then Hadad died. The leaders of the clans of the Edom people-group were Timna, Alvah, Jetheth, 
Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon, 
Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar, 
Magdiel, and Iram. 
