Isaiah.
Chapter 63.
Who is this coming from Edom, from the city of Bozrah? His clothes are stained bright red. He is glorious in his clothes. He is walking tall with his great power. He says, “I have the power to save you, and I speak the truth.” 
“Why are your clothes bright red? They are like the clothes of someone who tramples grapes to make wine.” 
He answers, “I walked in the winepress by myself. No one helped me. I was angry, and I trampled the grapes. The juice splashed on my clothes, so now they are stained. 
I chose a time to punish people. Now the time has come for me to save and protect my people. 
I looked around, but I saw no one to help me. I was surprised that no one supported me. So I used my own power to save my people. My own anger supported me. 
In my anger I trampled down the nations. I punished them in anger and spilled their blood on the ground.” 
I will remember the kind things the LORD has done, and I will remember to praise him. The LORD has given many good things to the family of Israel. He has been very kind to us. He has shown us mercy. 
He said, “These are my people. These are my real children.” So he saved them. 
The people had many troubles, but he was not against them. He loved them and felt sorry for them, so he saved them. He sent his special angel to save them. He picked them up and carried them, just as he did long ago. 
But they turned against him and made his Holy Spirit very sad. So the Lord became their enemy and fought against them. 
Then they remembered what happened long ago. They remembered Moses and those with him. So where is the one who brought them through the sea along with the shepherds who led his flock? Where is the one who sent his Holy Spirit to live among them? 
He was by Moses’ side and led him with his wonderful hand. He divided the water, so that the people could walk through the sea. He made his name famous by doing those great things. 
He led the people through the deep sea. Like a horse running through the desert, they walked without falling. 
Like cattle going down to the valley, The Spirit of the LORD led them. This is how you led your people and made your name wonderful. 
Please, look down from the heavens. See what is happening now. Look down at us from your great and holy home in heaven. Where is your strong love for us? Where is your compassion? Why are you hiding your kind love from me? 
Look, you are our father! Abraham does not know us. Israel does not recognize us. LORD, you are our father! You are the one who has always saved us! 
LORD, why are you pushing us away from you? Why are you making it hard for us to follow you? Come back to us! We are your servants. Come to us and help us! Our tribes belong to you. 
Your holy people had their land only a short time. Then our enemies trampled down your holy Temple. 
Some people don’t follow you. They don’t wear your name. And we have been like them for a very long time. 
