1 Chronicles.
Chapter 24.
These were the groups of Aaron’s sons: Aaron’s sons were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
But Nadab and Abihu died before their father did. Nadab and Abihu had no sons, so Eleazar and Ithamar served as the priests. 
David separated the tribes of Eleazar and Ithamar into two different groups. He did this so that these groups could do the duties of work they were given to do. David did this with the help of Zadok and Ahimelech. Zadok was a descendant of Eleazar, and Ahimelech was a descendant of Ithamar. 
There were more leaders from Eleazar’s family than from Ithamar’s. There were 16 leaders from Eleazar’s family and there were eight leaders from Ithamar’s family. 
Men were chosen from each family. They were chosen by throwing lots. Some of the men were chosen to be in charge of the Holy Place. And other men were chosen to serve as priests. All these men were from the families of Eleazar and Ithamar. 
Shemaiah was the secretary. He was Nethanel’s son. Shemaiah was from the tribe of Levi. Shemaiah wrote the names of those descendants. He wrote their names in front of King David and these leaders: Zadok the priest, Ahimelech, and the leaders from the families of the priests and of the Levites. Ahimelech was Abiathar’s son. Each time they threw the lots a man was chosen, and Shemaiah wrote down that man’s name. So they divided the work among groups of men from the families of Eleazar and Ithamar. 
The first was Jehoiarib’s group. The second was Jedaiah’s group. 
The third was Harim’s group. The fourth was Seorim’s group. 
The fifth was Malkijah’s group. The sixth was Mijamin’s group. 
The seventh was Hakkoz’s group. The eighth was Abijah’s group. 
The ninth was Jeshua’s group. The tenth was Shecaniah’s group. 
The eleventh was Eliashib’s group. The twelfth was Jakim’s group. 
The thirteenth was Huppah’s group. The fourteenth was Jeshebeab’s group. 
The fifteenth was Bilgah’s group. The sixteenth was Immer’s group. 
The seventeenth was Hezir’s group. The eighteenth was Happizzez’s group. 
The nineteenth was Pethahiah’s group. The twentieth was Jehezkel’s group. 
The twenty-first was Jakin’s group. The twenty-second was Gamul’s group. 
The twenty-third was Delaiah’s group. The twenty-fourth was Maaziah’s group. 
These were the groups chosen to serve in the LORD’S Temple. They obeyed Aaron’s rules for serving in the Temple. The LORD, the God of Israel, had given them to Aaron. 
These are the names of the rest of Levi’s descendants: Shubael was a descendant of Amram. Jehdeiah was a descendant of Shubael. 
Isshiah was the oldest son of Rehabiah. 
From the Izhar family group there was Shelomoth. Jahath was a descendant of Shelomoth. 
Jeriah was the oldest son of Hebron. Amariah was Hebron’s second son. Jahaziel was his third son, and Jekameam was his fourth son. 
Uzziel’s son was Micah. Micah’s son was Shamir. 
Isshiah was Micah’s brother. Isshiah’s son was Zechariah. 
Merari’s descendants were Mahli, Mushi, and Jaaziah his son. 
Jaaziah son of Merari had sons named Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri. 
Mahli’s son was Eleazar, but Eleazar did not have sons. 
Kish’s son was Jerahmeel. 
Mushi’s sons were Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These are the leaders of the Levite families. They are listed by their families. 
They were chosen for special jobs by throwing lots, like their relatives, the priests. The priests were Aaron’s descendants. They threw lots in front of King David, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the leaders of the priests’ and Levite families. The older families and the younger families were treated the same when their jobs were chosen. 
