1 Chronicles.
Chapter 2.
Israel’s sons were Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, 
Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
Judah’s sons were Er, Onan, and Shelah. Bathshua from Canaan was their mother. The LORD killed Er, the first son, because he saw that he was evil. 
Judah’s daughter-in-law Tamar gave birth to Perez and Zerah. So Judah had five sons. 
Perez’s sons were Hezron and Hamul. 
Zerah had five sons. They were Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Darda. 
Zimri’s son was Carmi. Carmi’s son was Achar. Achar was the man who brought many troubles to Israel. Achar kept the things he took in battle, but he was supposed to give them all to God. 
Ethan’s son was Azariah. 
Hezron’s sons were Jerahmeel, Ram, and Caleb. 
Ram was Amminadab’s father, and Amminadab was Nahshon’s father. Nahshon was the leader of the people of Judah. 
Nahshon was Salmon’s father. Salmon was Boaz’s father. 
Boaz was Obed’s father. Obed was Jesse’s father. 
Jesse was Eliab’s father. Eliab was Jesse’s first son. Jesse’s second son was Abinadab. His third son was Shimea. 
Nethanel was Jesse’s fourth son. Jesse’s fifth son was Raddai. 
Ozem was Jesse’s sixth son, and David was his seventh son. 
Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. Zeruiah’s three sons were Abishai, Joab, and Asahel. 
Abigail was Amasa’s mother. Amasa’s father was Jether. Jether was from the Ishmaelites. 
Caleb was Hezron’s son. Caleb had children with his wife Azubah. Azubah was the daughter of Jerioth. Azubah’s sons were Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon. 
When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath. Caleb and Ephrath had a son. They named him Hur. 
Hur was Uri’s father. Uri was Bezalel’s father. 
Later when Hezron was 60 years old, he married Makir’s daughter. Makir was the father of Gilead. Hezron had sexual relations with Makir’s daughter, and she gave birth to Segub. 
Segub was Jair’s father. Jair had 23 cities in the country of Gilead. 
But Geshur and Aram took Jair’s villages. Among them were Kenath and the small towns around it. There were 60 small towns in all. All these towns belonged to the sons of Makir, the father of Gilead. 
After Hezron died in the town of Caleb Ephrathah, his wife Abijah had his son, who was named Ashhur. Ashhur was the father of Tekoa. 
Jerahmeel was Hezron’s first son. Jerahmeel’s sons were Ram, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah. Ram was Jerahmeel’s first son. 
Jerahmeel had another wife named Atarah. Onam’s mother was Atarah. 
Jerahmeel’s first son, Ram, had sons. They were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker. 
Onam’s sons were Shammai and Jada. Shammai’s sons were Nadab and Abishur. 
Abishur’s wife was named Abihail. They had two sons. Their names were Ahban and Molid. 
Nadab’s sons were Seled and Appaim. Seled died without having children. 
Appaim’s son was Ishi. Ishi’s son was Sheshan. Sheshan’s son was Ahlai. 
Jada was Shammai’s brother. Jada’s sons were Jether and Jonathan. Jether died without having children. 
Jonathan’s sons were Peleth and Zaza. This was the list of Jerahmeel’s children. 
Sheshan did not have sons. He only had daughters. Sheshan had a servant from Egypt named Jarha. 
Sheshan let his daughter marry Jarha. They had a son. His name was Attai. 
Attai was Nathan’s father. Nathan was Zabad’s father. 
Zabad was Ephlal’s father. Ephlal was Obed’s father. 
Obed was Jehu’s father. Jehu was Azariah’s father. 
Azariah was Helez’s father. Helez was Eleasah’s father. 
Eleasah was Sismai’s father. Sismai was Shallum’s father. 
Shallum was Jekamiah’s father, and Jekamiah was Elishama’s father. 
Caleb was Jerahmeel’s brother. Caleb had some sons. His first son was Mesha. Mesha was Ziph’s father. There was also Caleb’s son Mareshah. Mareshah was the father of Hebron. 
Hebron’s sons were Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema. 
Shema was Raham’s father. Raham was Jorkeam’s father. Rekem was Shammai’s father. 
Shammai’s son was Maon. Maon was Beth Zur’s father. 
Caleb’s slave woman was named Ephah. Ephah was the mother of Haran, Moza, and Gazez. Haran was Gazez’s father. 
Jahdai’s sons were Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph. 
Maacah was another slave woman of Caleb. Maacah was the mother of Sheber and Tirhana. 
Maacah was also the mother of Shaaph and Sheva. Shaaph was Madmannah’s father. Sheva was the father of Macbenah and Gibea. Caleb’s daughter was Acsah. 
This is a list of Caleb’s descendants: Hur was Caleb’s first son. He was born to Ephrathah. Hur’s sons were Shobal, the founder of Kiriath Jearim, 
Salma, the founder of Bethlehem, and Hareph, the founder of Beth Gader. 
Shobal was the founder of Kiriath Jearim. This is a list of Shobal’s descendants: Haroeh, half the people in Manahti, 
and the tribes from Kiriath Jearim. These are the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites, and Mishraites. The Zorathites and the Eshtaolites came from the Mishraites. 
This is a list of Salma’s descendants: the people from Bethlehem, Netophah, Atroth Beth Joab, half the people from Manahti, the Zorites, 
and the families of scribes who lived at Jabez, Tirath, Shimeath, and Sucah. These scribes are the Kenites who came from Hammath. Hammath was the founder of Beth Recab. 
