Numbers.
Chapter 28.
Then the LORD spoke to Moses. He said, 
“Give this command to the Israelites. Tell them to be sure to give the grain offerings and sacrifices to me at the right time as sweet-smelling gifts. 
These are gifts that they must give to the LORD. Every day they must give 2 lambs that are one year old. There must be nothing wrong with them. 
Offer one of the lambs in the morning and the other lamb just before dark. 
Also give a grain offering of 8 cups of fine flour mixed with 1 quart of olive oil.” 
(They started giving the daily offerings at Mount Sinai as sweet-smelling gifts to the LORD.) 
“The people must also give the drink offerings that go with the gifts. They must give 1 quart of wine with every lamb. Pour that drink offering on the altar in the Holy Place. This is a gift to the LORD. 
Offer the second lamb just before dark. Offer it just as the morning offering. Also give the drink offering that goes with it. This will be a sweet-smelling gift to the LORD. 
“On the Sabbath you must give 2 lambs that are one year old. There must be nothing wrong with them. You must also give a grain offering of 16 cups of fine flour mixed with olive oil, and a drink offering. 
This is a special offering for the day of rest. This offering is in addition to the regular daily offering and drink offering. 
“On the first day of each month you will offer a special burnt offering to the LORD. This offering will be 2 male bulls, 1 ram, and 7 lambs that are one year old. There must be nothing wrong with them. 
With each bull, you must give a grain offering of 24 cups of fine flour mixed with olive oil. And with the ram, you must give a grain offering of 16 cups of fine flour mixed with olive oil. 
Also give a grain offering of 8 cups of fine flour mixed with olive oil with each lamb. This will be a sweet-smelling gift to the LORD. 
The drink offering will be 2 quarts of wine with each bull, 1 1/4 quarts of wine with the ram, and 1 quart of wine with each lamb. That is the burnt offering that must be offered each month of the year. 
In addition to the regular daily burnt offering and drink offering, you must also give 1 male goat to the LORD. That goat will be a sin offering. 
“The LORD’S Passover will be on the 14th day of the first month. 
The Festival of Unleavened Bread begins on the 15th day of that month. This festival lasts for seven days. The only bread you can eat is bread made without yeast. 
You must have a special meeting on the first day of this festival. You will not do any work on that day. 
You will give burnt offerings to the LORD. The burnt offerings will be 2 bulls, 1 ram, and 7 lambs that are one year old. There must be nothing wrong with them. 
You must also give a grain offering of 24 cups of fine flour mixed with olive oil with each bull, and 16 cups of fine flour mixed with oil with the ram, and 8 cups of fine flour mixed with oil for each lamb. 
You must also give a male goat as a sin offering to make you pure. 
You must give these offerings in addition to the morning burnt offerings that you give every day. 
“In this way, each day for seven days, you must bring the food that is offered by fire. The smell of these offerings will please the LORD. You must give these offerings in addition to the daily burnt offering and the drink offering that goes with it. 
“Then, on the seventh day of this festival, you will have another special meeting. You will not do any work on that day. 
“The first day of the Festival of Harvest is the day you bring the first of your new crops and give them as a grain offering to the LORD. At that time you must also call a special meeting. You must not do any work on that day. 
You must offer a burnt offering as a sweet-smelling gift to the LORD. You must offer 2 bulls, 1 ram, and 7 lambs that are one year old. There must be nothing wrong with them. 
You must also give 24 cups of fine flour mixed with oil with each bull, and 16 cups with each ram, 
and 8 cups with each lamb. 
You must also sacrifice a male goat to make you pure. 
You must give these offerings in addition to the daily burnt offerings and the grain offering you give with them. Be sure there is nothing wrong with the animals or the drink offerings that you give with them. 
