Job.
Chapter 5.
“Job, call out if you want, and see if anyone answers! But to which of the angels will you turn? 
A fool’s anger will kill him. His jealousy will destroy him. 
I saw a fool who thought he was safe, but suddenly he died. 
There was no one to help his children. No one defended them in court. 
Hungry people ate all his crops, even the grain growing among the thorns, and greedy people took all he had. 
Bad times don’t come up from the dirt. Trouble does not grow from the ground. 
But people are born to have trouble, as surely as sparks rise from a fire. 
If I were you, I would turn to God and tell him about my problems. 
People cannot understand the wonderful things God does. His miracles are too many to count. 
He sends rain all over the earth and waters the fields. 
He raises up the humble and makes sad people happy. 
He spoils the plans of even the smartest people so that they will not succeed. 
He catches those who think they are wise in their own clever traps and brings to an end their evil plans. 
Daylight will be like darkness for them. Even at noon they will have to feel their way as in the dark. 
God saves the poor from the hurtful words of the wicked. He saves them from those who are powerful. 
So the poor have hope; God shuts the mouths of those who would cause them harm. 
“You are fortunate when God corrects you. So don’t complain when God All-Powerful punishes you. 
God might injure you, but he will bandage those wounds. He might hurt you, but his hands also heal. 
He will save you again and again. No evil will harm you. 
God will save you from death when there is famine. He will protect you from the sword when there is war. 
People might say bad things about you with their sharp tongues. But God will protect you. You will not be afraid when bad things happen! 
You will laugh at destruction and famine. You will not be afraid of wild animals! 
It is as if you have a peace treaty with the wild animals and the rocks in the field. 
You will live in peace because your tent is safe. You will count your property and find nothing missing. 
You will have many children. They will be as many as the blades of grass on the earth. 
You will be like the wheat that grows until harvest time. Yes, you will live to a ripe old age. 
“We have studied this and know it is true. So listen to us, and learn for yourself.” 
