2 Samuel.
Chapter 7.
After King David moved into his new house the LORD gave him some relief from all of his enemies around him. 
King David said to Nathan the prophet, “Look, I am living in a fancy house made of cedar wood, but God’s Holy Box is still kept in a tent!” 
Nathan said to King David, “Do whatever you want to do. The LORD will be with you.” 
But that night, the LORD’S word came to Nathan: 
“Go and tell my servant David, ‘This is what the LORD says: You are not the one to build a house for me to live in. 
I did not live in a house at the time I took the Israelites out of Egypt. No, I traveled around in a tent. I used the tent for my home. 
I never told any of the tribes of Israel to build me a fancy house made from cedar wood.’ 
“You must say this to my servant David: ‘This is what the LORD All-Powerful says: I chose you while you were out in the pasture following the sheep. I took you from that job and made you the leader of my people, the Israelites. 
I have been with you every place you went. I have defeated your enemies for you. I will make you one of the most famous people on earth. 
And I chose a place for my people, the Israelites. I planted the Israelites. I gave them their own place to live so that they will not have to move from place to place anymore. In the past, I sent judges to lead my people, but evil people gave them many troubles. That will not happen now. I am giving you peace from all of your enemies. I promise that I will make your family a family of kings. 
“‘When your life is finished, you will die and be buried with your ancestors. But then I will make one of your own children become the king. 
He will build a house for my name, and I will make his kingdom strong forever. 
I will be his father, and he will be my son. When he sins, I will use other people to punish him. They will be my whips. 
But I will never stop loving him. I will continue to be loyal to him. I took away my love and kindness from Saul. I pushed Saul away when I turned to you. 
Your family of kings will continue—you can depend on that! For you, your kingdom will continue forever! Your throne will stand forever!’” 
Nathan told David about that vision. He told David everything God had said. 
Then King David went in and sat in front of the LORD. David said, “Lord GOD, why am I so important to you? Why is my family important? Why have you made me so important? 
I am nothing but a servant, but Lord GOD, you have also said these kind things about my future family. Lord GOD, you don’t always talk like this to people, do you? 
How can I continue talking to you? Lord GOD, you know that I am only a servant. 
You will do all these wonderful things because you said you would do them and because you want to do them. And you decided to let me know about all these things. 
Lord GOD, this is why you are so great! There is no one like you. There is no god except you! We know that because of what we ourselves have heard about what you did. 
“And there is no nation on earth like your people, Israel. They are a special people. They were slaves, but you took them out of Egypt and made them free. You made them your people. You did great and wonderful things for the Israelites and for your land. 
You made the people of Israel your very own people forever, and LORD, you became their God. 
“Now, LORD God, you promised to do something for me, your servant, and for my family. Now please do what you promised—make my family a family of kings forever! 
Then your name will be honored forever. People will say, ‘The LORD God All-Powerful rules Israel! And may the family of your servant David continue to be strong in serving you.’ 
“You, LORD All-Powerful, the God of Israel, have shown things to me. You said, ‘I will make your family great.’ That is why I, your servant, decided to pray this prayer to you. 
Lord GOD, you are God, and I can trust what you say. And you said that these good things would happen to me, your servant. 
Now, please, bless my family. Let them stand before you and serve you forever. Lord GOD, you yourself said these things. You yourself blessed my family with a blessing that will continue forever.” 
