1 Chronicles.
Chapter 8.
Benjamin was Bela’s father. Bela was Benjamin’s first son. Ashbel was Benjamin’s second son. Aharah was Benjamin’s third son. 
Nohah was Benjamin’s fourth son. And Rapha was Benjamin’s fifth son. 
Bela’s sons were Addar, Gera, Abihud, Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah, Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram. 
These were the descendants of Ehud. They were leaders of their families in Geba. They were forced to leave their homes and move to Manahath. Ehud’s descendants were Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera. Gera forced them to leave their homes. He was the father of Uzza and Ahihud. 
Shaharaim divorced his wives Hushim and Baara in Moab. After he did this he had some children with another wife. 
Shaharaim had Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam, Jeuz, Sakia, and Mirmah with his wife Hodesh. They were leaders of their families. 
Shaharaim and Hushim had two sons named Abitub and Elpaal. 
Elpaal’s sons were Eber, Misham, Shemed, Beriah, and Shema. Shemed built the towns of Ono and Lod and the small towns around Lod. Beriah and Shema were the leaders of the families living in Aijalon. They forced the people who lived in Gath to leave. 
Beriah’s sons were Shashak and Jeremoth, 
Zebadiah, Arad, Eder, 
Michael, Ishpah, and Joha. 
Elpaal’s sons were Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber, 
Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab. 
Shimei’s sons were Jakim, Zicri, Zabdi, 
Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel, 
Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath. 
Shashak’s sons were Ishpan, Eber, Eliel, 
Abdon, Zicri, Hanan, 
Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah, 
Iphdeiah, and Penuel. 
Jeroham’s sons were Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah, 
Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zicri. 
All these men were leaders of their families. They were listed in their family histories as leaders. They lived in Jerusalem. 
Jeiel was Gibeon’s father. He and his wife, Maacah, lived in the town of Gibeon. 
His oldest son was Abdon. Other sons were Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab, 
Gedor, Ahio, Zeker, and Mikloth. 
Mikloth was the father of Shimeah. These sons also lived near their relatives in Jerusalem. 
Ner was Kish’s father. Kish was Saul’s father, and Saul was the father of Jonathan, Malki Shua, Abinadab, and Esh Baal. 
Jonathan’s son was Merib Baal. Merib Baal was Micah’s father. 
Micah’s sons were Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz. 
Ahaz was Jehoaddah’s father. Jehoaddah was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. Zimri was Moza’s father. 
Moza was Binea’s father. Raphah was Binea’s son. Eleasah was Raphah’s son. And Azel was Eleasah’s son. 
Azel had six sons. Their names were Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these sons were Azel’s children. 
Azel’s brother was Eshek. Eshek had some sons. These were Eshek’s sons: Ulam was Azel’s oldest son. Jeush was Eshek’s second son. Eliphelet was Eshek’s third son. 
Ulam’s sons were strong soldiers who were very good with bows and arrows. They had many sons and grandsons. In all, there were 150 sons and grandsons. All these men were descendants of Benjamin. 
