Proverbs.
Chapter 19.
It is better to be poor and honest than to be a liar and a fool. 
Being excited about something is not enough. You must also know what you are doing. Don’t rush into something, or you might do it wrong. 
People ruin their lives with the foolish things they do, and then they blame the LORD for it. 
Wealth will bring you many friends, but become poor and your friends will leave you. 
A witness who lies will be punished; that liar will not escape. 
Many people are nice to a generous person. Everyone wants to be friends with someone who gives gifts. 
If you are poor, your family will turn against you, and your friends will avoid you even more. You might beg them for help, but no one will come to help you. 
Be a friend to yourself; do all you can to be wise. Try hard to understand, and you will be rewarded. 
A witness who lies will be punished. That liar will be destroyed. 
A fool should not be rich, and a slave should not rule over princes. 
Experience makes you more patient, and you are most patient when you ignore insults. 
The shouts of an angry king are like a roaring lion, but his kind words are like a gentle rain falling softly on the grass. 
A foolish son brings a flood of troubles to his father, and a complaining wife is like the constant dripping of water. 
People receive houses and money from their parents, but a good wife is a gift from the LORD. 
Laziness brings on sleep, and an appetite for rest brings on hunger. 
Obey the law and live; ignore it and die. 
Giving help to the poor is like loaning money to the LORD. He will pay you back for your kindness. 
Discipline your children while there is still hope. Avoiding it can be deadly. 
People who are quick to become angry must pay the price. Protect them from punishment, and they become worse. 
Listen to advice and accept discipline; then you, too, will become wise. 
People might make many plans, but what the LORD says is what will happen. 
People want a friend they can trust. It is better to be poor than to be a liar. 
Respect the LORD and you will have a good life, one that is satisfying and free from trouble. 
Some people are too lazy to take care of themselves. They will not even lift the food from their plate to their mouth. 
Punish a rude, arrogant person, and even slow learners will become wiser. But just a little correction is enough to teach a person who has understanding. 
Those who would steal from their father and chase away their mother are disgusting, shameful people. 
My son, if you stop listening to instructions, you will keep making stupid mistakes. 
Using a criminal as a witness makes a joke of justice. People like that only want to do wrong. 
People who show no respect for anything must be brought to justice. You must punish such fools. 
