Numbers.
Chapter 2.
The LORD said to Moses and Aaron: 
“The Israelites should make their camps around the Meeting Tent. Each division will have its own special flag, and everyone will camp near their group’s flag. 
“The flag of the camp of Judah will be on the east side, where the sun rises. The people of Judah will camp near its flag. The leader of the people of Judah is Nahshon son of Amminadab. 
There are 74,600 men in his division. 
“The tribe of Issachar will camp next to the tribe of Judah. The leader of the tribe of Issachar is Nethanel son of Zuar. 
There are 54,400 men in his division. 
“The tribe of Zebulun will also camp next to the tribe of Judah. The leader of the tribe of Zebulun is Eliab son of Helon. 
There are 57,400 men in his division. 
“The total number of men in Judah’s camp is 186,400. All these men are divided into their different tribes. Judah will be the first group to move when the people travel from one place to another. 
“The flag of Reuben’s camp will be south of the Holy Tent. Each group will camp near its flag. The leader of the tribe of Reuben is Elizur son of Shedeur. 
There are 46,500 men in this division. 
“The tribe of Simeon will camp next to the tribe of Reuben. The leader of the tribe of Simeon is Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai. 
There are 59,300 men in this division. 
“The tribe of Gad will also camp next to the tribe of Reuben. The leader of the tribe of Gad is Eliasaph son of Deuel. 
There are 45,650 men in this division. 
“The total number of men in all the divisions of Reuben’s camp is 151,450. His camp will be the second group to move when the people travel from place to place. 
“When the people travel, Levi’s camp will move next. The Meeting Tent will be with them between the other camps. The people will make their camps in the same order that they move. 
“The flag of the camp of Ephraim will be on the west side. The division of Ephraim will camp there. The leader of the tribe of Ephraim is Elishama son of Ammihud. 
There are 40,500 men in this division. 
“The tribe of Manasseh will camp next to Ephraim’s family. The leader of the tribe of Manasseh is Gamaliel son of Pedahzur. 
There are 32,200 men in this division. 
“The tribe of Benjamin will also camp next to Ephraim’s family. The leader of the tribe of Benjamin is Abidan son of Gideoni. 
There are 35,400 men in this division. 
“The total number of men in Ephraim’s camp is 108,100. They will be the third family to move when the people travel from one place to another. 
“The flag of Dan’s camp will be on the north side. The tribes of Dan will camp there. The leader of the tribe of Dan is Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai. 
There are 62,700 men in this division. 
“The people from the tribe of Asher will camp next to the tribe of Dan. The leader of the tribe of Asher is Pagiel son of Ocran. 
There are 41,500 men in this division. 
“The tribe of Naphtali will also camp next to the tribe of Dan. The leader of the tribe of Naphtali is Ahira son of Enan. 
There are 53,400 men in this division. 
“There are 157,600 men in Dan’s camp. They will be the last to move when the people travel from place to place. Each group will have its own flag.” 
So these were the Israelites. They were counted by families. The total number of Israelite men in the camps, counted by divisions, is 603,550. 
Moses obeyed the LORD and did not count the Levites with the other Israelites. 
So the Israelites did everything the LORD told Moses. Each group camped under its own flag. And everyone stayed with their own family and family group. 
