Psalm.
Chapter 139.
To the director: A praise song of David. LORD, you have tested me, so you know all about me. 
You know when I sit down and when I get up. You know my thoughts from far away. 
You know where I go and where I lie down. You know everything I do. 
LORD, you know what I want to say, even before the words leave my mouth. 
You are all around me—in front of me and behind me. I feel your hand on my shoulder. 
I am amazed at what you know; it is too much for me to understand. 
Your Spirit is everywhere I go. I cannot escape your presence. 
If I go up to heaven, you will be there. If I go down to the place of death, you will be there. 
If I go east where the sun rises or go to live in the west beyond the sea, 
even there you will take my hand and lead me. Your strong right hand will protect me. 
Suppose I wanted to hide from you and said, “Surely the darkness will hide me. The day will change to night and cover me.” 
Even the darkness is not dark to you. The night is as bright as the day. Darkness and light are the same. 
You formed the way I think and feel. You put me together in my mother’s womb. 
I praise you because you made me in such a wonderful way. I know how amazing that was! 
You could see my bones grow as my body took shape, hidden in my mother’s womb. 
You could see my body grow each passing day. You listed all my parts, and not one of them was missing. 
Your thoughts are beyond my understanding. They cannot be measured! 
If I could count them, they would be more than all the grains of sand. But when I finished, I would have just begun. 
You murderers, get away from me! God, kill those wicked people— 
those who say bad things about you. Your enemies use your name falsely. 
LORD, I hate those who hate you. I hate those who are against you. 
I hate them completely! Your enemies are also my enemies. 
God, examine me and know my mind. Test me and know all my worries. 
Make sure that I am not going the wrong way. Lead me on the path that has always been right. 
