Genesis.
Chapter 2.
This next day he did not make another thing. He said about that day, “Already I have finished making everything. I was working, now I have left off working. This day truly I did not make another thing. Because of that this day is different, without work. I have left off work for today.” Avoiding word for 'rest', which also means 'sleep'. 
Like this God made a/the person. He got dust from the ground. He made a man from that dust. Then he breathed in the nose of the man, then wind/breath from God entered the man. For that reason the man became alive. The name of that man was Adam. 
After that in the country, in Eden, there God put a big water-hole/permanent camp, a truly good one. He put the man he had made at that water-hole. 
At that water-hole he put different kinds of good trees. There were different kinds having very good food there. In the middle of the trees God put one tree. He named that tree, 'One That Keeps People Alive'. After a person eats from that tree he will live for ever, he will stay without death. He put another tree in the middle of the others, that was a thing associated with making knowledgeable. He named that tree, 'One That Teaches People About Good And Bad'. 
At the water-hole in Eden he put that (previously-referred to) person to dig the ground and to care for the water-hole. 
He said to him, “You can eat food from all the trees at the water-hole. 
(Fruit) from one tree leave, do not eat it, from the tree which makes knowledgeable. I named it, 'One That Teaches People About Good And Bad'. From that tree don't eat. If you eat from that tree truly you will die.” 
Then he said, “The man should not be alone. I will make a companion for him, he will be one with a companion.” 
Already God had made all the animals and winged creatures from the ground. He brought them to the man to give them names. That man gave names to the animals and winged creatures and other creatures. They kept the names in accord with the man's word. Among them all there was not one like the man, a companion for him. 
Then God put the man to sleep, he got a bone from the man's side, then he covered the hole with flesh. 
From the bone he made a woman, he took her to the man. 
Then the man said, “At last! This one is like me! He made her from my body. Her name is 'Woman'.” 
Because of that God left us this track/pattern of behaviour. A/the man will leave mother and father and they will become one, he and his own wife. Truly those two will be one. 
At the water-hole Eden that couple, Adam and his wife, were staying naked, they stayed well, naked, those two, without shame. 
