Genesis.
Chapter 19.
The other two continued on towards Sodom. God sent them, those two were angels. They arrived at the town at sundown. At that time Lot, Abraham's younger brother's son, was sitting at the gate of the town. He saw those two, he went to meet them. He bowed to them with his face downwards. 
He said to them, “Please come to my camp. You will wash your feet, you will stay in my house. In the morning you can go wherever you want to go.” They replied, “Don't worry. We will stay right here on the level area for the night.” 
Lot continued to ask them to stay in his house. Therefore they went to his camp. He brought to them flat damper and various good foods. Those two were eating. 
While those two were sitting there, Sodom men came to the house. There were young men and old, all the Sodom men, they were standing outside. 
They called out to Lot, “Where are those two men who came to your house? Bring them to us!” Those Sodom men were truly sex-mad, they wanted those two. 
Lot went outside, he shut the door behind him. 
He said to them, “Don't do that sort of thing. It is very bad. 
Listen. I have two daughters, young girls. They have not slept with a man. Let me bring those two daughters to you. Do to them whatever you want. Those two men are strangers, leave them. They came to my camp. Truly I should look after them.” 
After hearing that word they became angry. “Go away! Go away! You came here from a long way off, now you will make yourself a boss for us. We will truly do bad to you.” They pushed Lot in another direction, they tried in vain to break his door. 
After that those two angels pulled Lot inside the house, they shut the door. 
After that they made those Sodom men blind, they could not see. In vain they were searching for the door. 
The two said to Lot, “Who from your family are in this town? Children? Sons-in-law? Tell them they must leave this town. 
Soon we two will truly burn all this town. God knows about the people here, they are very bad. He sent us here to burn everything completely.” 
Lot went to his two sons-in-law, the ones his daughters were promised to, he said to them, “Soon God will burn this town completely. Run quickly from here lest you die!” They ignored him, they were thinking it was like a game, that he was only tricking them. 
When it became first light the angels said to Lot, “Take your wife and two daughters, all of you run outside this town lest you die!” 
Lot was ignoring them, he did not hurry. After that those two angels took him by the hand, they went quickly outside the town. (God had pity on Lot, therefore they did that.) 
After that those two said to them, “Run, run! Do not look behind! Do not settle down partway on the plain. Run straight on to the hills lest you die!” 
Lot replied, “You two with pity have been kind to me, you saved me. Listen to me. The hills are really far away. I can't run as far as there. I might die partway. 
Do you see that town, that little town over there? I will run as far as there. I will be safe there.” 
One said to him, “Yes. You (pl) go there. I will not burn that small town. 
I will wait a little while for you. As soon as you arrive there I will burn the remaining country. Therefore run!” When the sun had just risen Lot and his two daughters arrived at that town. The name of that small town is Zoar. 
After that God sent from the sky things like stones with fire, like that they hit those two towns, Sodom and Gomorrah. All the inhabitants died. God also hit the plain, the country became bad, without grass, without trees. 
Lot's wife ignored the word from the two angels. She looked behind her towards Sodom, salt covered her. That woman died, salt covered her, it made her like a termite mound. 
In the morning Abraham returned to that (previously mentioned) place, to the place where he was talking to God. 
From the hills he looked toward the plain, towards Sodom and Gomorrah. Smoke was going up in that direction. 
In that way God burned completely the plain and the two towns. Only Lot and his two daughters he sent away from Sodom lest they be killed. God listened to Abraham, he saved Lot. 
Lot was afraid to stay in that small town, Zoar. He left there, he went to the hills. He and his daughters were staying in a cave. 
One day the oldest one said to her younger sister, “Our father is old, we are without men. In this country there is truly not one man. 
Let us give father wine to drink. After that, when he is drunk we will sleep with him. In that way we will have a child from our father.” 
In the night they gave him wine. After he was drunk the eldest one went to him, she slept with him. Lot did not know that she had come and she had gone away. 
On the next day the eldest one said to her young sister, “Last night I slept with father. Tonight we will again give him wine. After that you will sleep with him, you will have a child from him. 
That night they again gave wine to their father. After that the youngest one slept with him. Lot did not know she had come and she hadgone away. 
In that way Lot's two daughters became pregnant by their own father. 
The oldest one gave birth to a child, a boy, she named him Moab. They called the ones who came after him Moab's mob. 
The youngest one also gave birth to a child, a boy. She named him Ben-Ammi. They called the ones who came after him Amu's mob. 
