Mark.
Chapter 14.
In that country when it became springtime Jews from all directions were gathering together in Jerusalem. At that time they used to kill little sheep, one for one house, one for another house, like that. At night, when the moon had become big, they would eat it. At that time day after day, for eight days, they would eat flat bread, without rising (lit. 'something to make it light'). They used to do that at God's word, they would remember that earlier they were staying in the country of Egypt, they were in a bad way. After that God saved them, he took them from the country of Egypt. Spring came for them. About this time they were gathering together in Jerusalem to remember that time long before. In two days they would kill the sheep. Those Jewish lawmen wanted to grab Jesus secretly to kill him. 
They were saying to each other, “How shall we do it?” Let's not grab him in the middle of the remembering ceremony. Many people say God sent Jesus to be king for us, to be our boss forever. In this way people are talking. Let's take care of ourselves because of them, let's do it secretly so we won't be seen. They might make it bad for us.” Like that those lawmen were talking to each other. 
Jesus came to that town Bethany, he entered the house belonging to Simon the Leper. While they were eating a woman came to them with a little bottle. It was full, the scent was sweet, very good, with very much money she got it. The woman broke the top from that bottle, she poured that good sweet-smelling stuff on the head of Jesus. 
Some people there became angry, they were saying to each other, “Why did she do that? She truly did badly. 
She should have given that sweet perfume for big money. She could have got big money. Then she could have given that money to poor people.” In that way they were talking. Truly they rebuked that woman. 
In response Jesus said to them, “Leave her alone. Why do you rebuke her? She did a good thing for me. 
Poor people will always be here with you. Day after day you can give them money. I will not be with you a long time. I will stay a little while, after that I will die. 
Truly she did a good thing for me. Today she poured this good sweet perfume on my body in order to do good for my burial (?) later. 
This word I tell you is a true, everywhere they will tell all people about me, they will tell them also this woman did this for me. They will remember this woman.” 
After that one man went to those leaders of the Jews. His name was Judas Iscariot. He was one of Jesus' men. He told the leaders, “I will take you to Jesus. You can grab the one that is pointed out.” 
After hearing his word they were happy, they said to him, “If you do that we will truly give you money.” After that Judas was waiting, he was thinking, “When can I take them to grab Jesus?” 
That day arrived when the Jews should kill a little sheep. On that day his men asked Jesus, “Where shall we go where we will get ready for us all to eat the sheep and flat damper?” 
He chose two of his men, he said to them, “You go, enter Jerusalem. A man with a water container will meet and join you. Follow him. 
He will enter a big house. You go in too. Inside you will see that person who lives there. Say to him, 'Our teacher says to you, “Where is the room you will make ready, in there I and my men will eat food, that sheep and flat damper?”' 
He will show you a large room. There you will get ready for us all.” 
Those two went. They entered Jerusalem, truly it happened for them in the way Jesus said. There they prepared. 
In the evening Jesus and the rest of his men came. 
While they were eating food Jesus said to them, “This is a true word I am telling you, one of you without shame will take a word to the leaders, they will grab me. This one is now eating with us here.” 
They were sorry, his men became upset, One by one they were asking, “How? Is it me?” 
Jesus replied, “One of you will do that, he will dip his damper, that one is among us here. 
I should die at God's word, in God's word they wrote about me like that long ago. For that man who does that, for that very person it will be very bad from now for ever. 
While they were eating Jesus picked up the damper, he said to God, “You are the one who gave us this damper. Thank you! You have helped us!” Then when he had broken it he gave them pieces, he said to them, “Take it, eat this food. This damper will remind you about my body. Soon others will truly kill my body. From now on whenever you eat damper remember my body, they killed me.” 
After that he picked up wine in a cup, he said to God, “You are the one who gave us this wine. Thank you! You have helped us!” He gave it to them, one by one they drank. 
He said to them, “This wine will remind you of my body. My blood will run in my death for many people. Truly God sent me to give a straight word to people. When I die I will truly leave for them this straight word from God. Whenever you drink this wine you will remember my blood, I am dying for many people. 
This is a true word I am telling you, I will not drink wine again in this country. Later God, my Father, will place me as boss for everyone. After that I will again drink with my people.” 
After that they sang a song for God, they went to that Hill with Olives. 
As they were going Jesus said to them, “Very truly you will leave me. You will run away scattered in different directions.” Jesus knew this from God's word. In that way long ago someone wrote in God's book, “God will kill the boss for the sheep, the sheep will all run away scattered.” Jesus knew that word was about him. God named Jesus the boss for the sheep, he named his working blokes like sheep. God spoke in this way, he would kill Jesus, all his men would run away. 
Then Jesus told them, “After I die I will become alive again. I will truly go to Galilee, I will go ahead of you.” 
Peter said to him, “The others might leave you, I will not leave you.” 
Jesus replied, “This is a true word I am telling you, this very night you will tell them three times, you will lie to them, 'I do not know him.' Like that you will speak to them. After that the rooster will call out twice. 
Peter replied, I truly will not tell them that. They might kill me, in death I truly will not say that.” All Jesus' other men said that same word to Jesus. 
They came to that place Gethsemene. He said to his men, “You sit here. I will pray to God.” 
He took Peter and James and John, they went a little way ahead. Jesus became very upset. 
Then he said to them, “My heart (lit 'stomach') is completely broken. I might die from being sorrowful. You stay here, stay awake, keep me company.” 
After that Jesus went a little way off from them, with sorrow he threw himself on the ground, then he was talking very intensely to God. He said to him, “Father, my own father, whatever you want that I will do. Truly some people want to kill me. I don't want death. You can prevent them. That is what I wish. I will just leave that. If you want others to kill me they will just kill me. I will not stop them.” 
After Jesus returned he saw those three sleeping. He said to Peter, “Simon Peter, why are you sleeping? Shouldn't you have stayed awake a little while?” 
He said to them, “Stay awake, pray to God. An evil spirit might lead you, you might do wrong. You still want to trust in God, truly you are weak. Therefore ask God to keep you safe.” 
Then Jesus again went, again he was praying to God with the same words. 
Again he returned to those three. Again they were asleep. They were sleepy. They were ashamed of themselves. 
Again Jesus went, he prayed to God, again returning he said to them, “Are you still sleeping? That is enough! Wake up! That same person who used to follow me is pointing me out to evil people tonight. They will grab me. Look! Right now he is coming. Stand up! We will meet them.” 
While Jesus was talking to them, Judas came close. He was one of Jesus' men. Many people came with him, with weapons, knives and clubs. The Jewish lawment sent them. 
Judas had earlier told the arresters this word: “I will hug one person. Grab him, take him carefully!” 
As soon as Judas arrived he went to Jesus, he called out “Teacher”, he hugged him. 
At that time they grabbed Jesus hard. 
One of Jesus' men who was standing there almost chopped a person with a knife. He cut only his ear. That man was a worker for the Big Leader. 
Then Jesus asked them, “Why did you come with clubs and knives to grab me, to arrest me? I am not a fighter, not a thief. 
Day after day I was teaching people in God's temple. You were right there. Why didn't you arrest me then? Earlier someone wrote about me in God's book, they would do that. Do that. I will not stop you.” 
After that his men left Jesus completely, they all truly ran away. 
Another person, a young man was following Jesus. He covered his body with only one cloth. The others tried unsuccessfully to grab him in order to arrest him. 
He left his cloth, he ran away naked. 
The leaders and teachers and the elderly men were gathering together in a huge house. That house belonged to the Big Leader. Those who arrested Jesus took him to that house. 
Peter was following them from a long way off, he also went in the gate of the Big Leader's house. That house was really big, rooms everywhere, with a yard in the middle. Peter entered that yard. There in the middle workers were sitting, they were men belonging to the Big Leader. They were warming themselves at a fire. Peter sat down with them to get warm. 
Those leaders and bosses, the whole Big Committee, did not like Jesus. They were looking for people to talk, to lie, “I saw Jesus disregarding God's law.” 
Many people with lies were bringing words about Jesus. Their stories were different, their words did not agree. 
Some stood up, with this lie they brought a word against Jesus, 
“He said, we heard him, 'God's Temple, men made it, truly I will break it, and in three days I will make another temple, people can not make one in that way.'” Like that they were lying. 
They also told differing stories. 
After that the Big Leader stood up, he stood in front of them. He said to Jesus, “They have been criticising you. You should respond to them. What will you say to them?” 
Jesus remained silent, he did not speak. Again the Big Leader said to him, “God will send to us his own child, to be a big boss for us. What about it? What do you say for yourself. Are you this one belonging to God?” 
Jesus replied, “Yes, I am that one. You will all see me, I will sit down near God, at his right side. After that you will see me, I will return from above in the clouds.” 
After that word the Big Leader tore his clothes. (The Jews when they were angry used to do that long ago.) He said to them, “You heard his bad word. Because of his word you know without a report. What will you say?” In response they all said to him, “Truly we should kill him.” 
Some were spitting on Jesus. At that time they tied up his face with a cloth, with their hands they were hitting him. They were mocking him, “Who hit you?” At that time the Big Leader's men took him, With their hands they were hitting him meaning of one word - parlju - not understood. 
While this was happening to Jesus Peter was still inside, in the yard. A working woman came to him. She belonged to the Big Leader. 
She saw Peter near the fire, he was getting warm. After looking straight at him, she said to him, “That Jesus from Nazareth, truly you are from his mob.” 
Peter lied, “I don't know him. I don't understand your word!” At that time as Peter was going to the doorway, to the gate, a rooster called out there. 
A woman near the doorway told the people standing there, “This man is one from Jesus mob.” 
Again Peter denied (lit. 'blocked') it, “No!” Later those who were standing there said to him, “Truly you belong to Jesus. You are from Galilee.” 
Then Peter told them, “I am speaking truly. God knows me. If I speak a lie God might hit me. This man you tell me about, truly I do not know him!” 
After that a rooster called out. When Peter heard it he truly remembered Jesus' word, “Three times you will tell them, you will lie, 'I do not know him'. Right after that a rooster will call out twice.” Jesus had already told Peter that. After Peter realised it he thought about it, he had done just that. His heart broke with shame, he was crying. 
