Genesis.
Chapter 16.
Abram was staying in that country, in Canaan, 10 years. He was still childless. That wife of his, Sarai, had not had a child. Sarai was keeping another woman from another country, from Egypt, a working woman for Sarai, her name was Hagar. 
At that time Sarai said to Abram, “Husband, I am childless. God has withheld children from me. Take my working woman, take her for a wife, you two sleep together. Maybe she will have a child for me.” He replied, “Yes.” 
After that Sarai gave that woman Hagar to Abram for a wife. 
They slept together, Hagar and Abram. After that Hagar became pregnant. Because of that she became proud towards her boss, Sarai. “She is just nobody”, said Hagar. 
After that Sarai became angry with Abram. “I gave you my working woman to keep in the camp. Now after becoming pregnant she has beome proud towards me. You are to blame. God will tell you, I am right.” 
Abram said to her, “She is your worker, you are boss for her. Whatever you want with her, do that to her.” After that Sarai was keeping Hagar in a bad way. Because of that Hagar ran away towards the desert. 
In that desert in dry country Hagar sat down near a spring. God appeared to her like an angel. 
There he said to her, “Hagar, you are Sarai's working woman. Where have you come from? Where are you going?” Hagar replied, “I am running from my boss afraid.” 
He said to her, “Return to your mistress, obey her. 
I will give you very many grandchildren's grandchildren and those who come after them, you won't be able to count lit 'name' them, they will be very many. 
You are pregnant, you will have a child, a boy. Yes, I heard you crying, for that reason you will name your son Ishmael. 
When he grows up he will be a fighter against all people, they all will be fighters against him. He will be a solitary dweller.” 
After that Hagar thought, “Truly it was God I saw, I am really alive, he did not kill me.” She named God, 'The One Who Habitually Sees Me'. 
Because of that she named that well, “The Living One Sees Me”. 
After that Hagar returned to Sarai. After that she had a child for Abram, a boy. 
Abram had 86 years. At that same time Hagar had the child. Abram named him Ishmael. 
