Mark.
Chapter 11.
They came close to Jerusalem, they climbed a big hill, its name was the Hill Having Olives. On this hill were two towns, the name of one was Bethphage, the name of the other was Bethany. Then Jesus sent two of his men to go ahead. 
He said to them, “Go ahead to that town. As soon as you arrive you will see a donkey, a young one, tied up there. They haven't trained it yet. Remove the rope from the stick, bring the donkey this way. 
Maybe someone will ask you, 'Why are you doing that?'. Say to him, 'The boss wants him.' Then he will send the donkey here.” In that way Jesus spoke to them. 
After that they went, they saw the young donkey in the town, near a house, tied up at the doorway. They removed the rope from the stick. 
Some people standing there asked them, “Why did you remove that rope?” 
They replied with Jesus' words. So they left those two alone. 
They brought it to Jesus. A few people put their blankets on the donkey. Jesus climbed on. 
Many people put their blankets spread out in front of him. Some people cut leaves close to the road, they put the leaves also on the road. They wanted to make Jesus a big boss, that boss they call King. That is why they did that. 
Jesus was riding the donkey, some people were going on foot behind and ahead close to him. They were calling out, “God is very good! In accordance with his word from long ago he sent this man to us. This man will be a good king for us, like that boss from long ago, King David. He will look after us well forever. God is very good!” In that sort of way they were talking loudly. 
Jesus entered Jerusalem. At that place for a long time there was a really big house, from long ago they built it to pray to God there. That house they used to name the Temple. Jesus went to that Temple belonging to God. After entering he looked around carefully. The sun had already set. After that they went out of Jerusalem, they returned to the small town Bethany, his men also went. 
In the morning Jesus was going from Bethany to Jerusalem, he was hungry. 
Far off he saw a tree, it was a fruit tree, with many leaves. When those trees have leaves people will get fruit. Omit previous sentence - it contradicts Mark's statement that it was wrong time for figs. Jesus went to that tree, he was looking for fruit. When he came close there was nothing, no fruit, only leaves. That tree deceived him. 
He spoke to that tree, “From today you will forever have no fruit. They will not eat from you again.” His men heard him say that. 
They came into Jerusalem, they went to God's Temple. Many people were inside the Temple. In there some had sheep, others had doves. Some were buying those animals to kill and to give to God. They could not give their own money for those sheep and doves. Only another kind of money, Temple money only, only that they could give. Some people were taking their money from them, in response they were giving them Temple money. By cheating they were taking a lot of money from them, they were giving them a small amount of Temple money. After Jesus entered he threw their tables upside down, he also threw down the chairs of those who worked with doves. He chased outside the givers of money and the takers of money. 
Some people were going straight through the Temple, they were carrying belongings. Jesus stopped them. 
He said to everyone, “In God's book someone from long ago wrote this word: 'God's house is for all people everywhere. Here they will pray to God.' No way! You have truly been stopping them. You have made God's house a place for thieves. 
Those Jewish lawmen were listening to his words. They were afraid of him. Secretly they were talking to each other, “How shall we kill Jesus?” All the other people liked Jesus. When he taught them he was truly making them happy. 
When it became evening Jesus and his men left Jerusalem. 
Early in the morning they were going along the road towards Jerusalem, they saw that deceiving tree, it was dry. It was completely dead. 
Peter remembered that word of Jesus. He said to him, “Teacher, look! That tree without fruit, the other day you spoke sternly to it, now it is truly dead.” 
Jesus replied, “You all should believe in God. 
This word I am telling you is true. Maybe you will tell that big hill to move, 'Throw yourself into the sea!' If you believe and do not doubt, at your word it will happen in that very way for you. 
This word I am telling you, when you talk to God, whatever you ask, believe God for that. Then that very thing he will do for you. 
When you talk to God, remember, 'Who has done wrong to me?' Then when you have remembered do not look on him with anger, just let him alone. In return your Father Above will not look at you with anger, he will just leave you alone after you have done wrong.” 
Again they came to Jerusalem. Jesus entered God's Temple. All those Jewish lawmen came to him. 
Sternly they asked him, “Those people you chased out of the Temple the other day, who told you to do that? Who made you a boss?” 
Jesus replied, “I will ask you a word. You give me a straight word. Then I will tell you who told me to do like that. 
You tell me about that man John, he was telling them to leave evil, and he was baptising them. Who told John to do that? Did God tell him? Did some person tell him? You tell me your word.” 
Secretly they were talking to each other. “What shall we say? We might say to him in this way, 'God told him.' He will reply, 'Why didn't you believe him?' 
We might say a different word to him. We might say, “It was just a person who told him'. No. We cannot say that!” In that way they were secretly talking to each other. They were very afraid of people. All the people were thinking truly God sent John to them to teach them God's word. 
Therefore the lawmen with fear said to him, “We don't know about that.” Jesus in response said to them, “You did not give me a straight word. In response I will not tell you who told me to send those people away.” 
