Genesis.
Chapter 25.
Abraham earlier took another wife. Her name was Keturah. Earlier: Implied. Abraham was 137 when Sarah died. His fathering of children by Keturah must have been before 17:17, when Abraham was 99, and probably before Hagar and Abraham produced Ishmael, when Abraham was 85. 
Those two had 6 sons, their children. In that place they grew up. Their father gave them belongings. After that he sent them to another country, eastwards. He sent them away from Isaac. After that he gave all the rest to Isaac, whatever belongings he had. 
Abraham was very old, having 175 years. After that he died. 
His two sons Isaac and Ishmael put their father in a cave at Machpelah. Earlier that same cave used to belong to another. Abraham got it with money, a lot of money he gave Ephron for that cave and land. When his wife Sarah died Abraham put her in that cave. In that same cave now his two sons also put him. 
After that God took care of Isaac. Isaac made his camp at the water-hole, what's that place, Lahoi-Roi. 25:12-20 omitted. 
Isaac and his wife were staying there a long time without children. Isaac asked God, “Will you give my wife a child.” God listened to him, afterwards his wife became pregnant. 
She had two children in her womb. They were wrestling. Rebekah was upset. She asked God, “Why?” 
God told her, “You will give birth to two males. The descendants of those two will argue with each other, they will separate from each other. The descendants of the youngest one will be strong, they will be bosses for the others.” 
After that Rebekah gave birth to two children, males. 
The oldest one appeared red and hairy. Therefore they named him Esau. 
After that the younger one appeared. He was holding his older brother's heel. Therefore they named him Jacob. At that time Isaac was old, having 60 years. 
Those two Esau and Jacob became big, they became men. Esau was a hunter, he used to go out for meat. Jacob used to stay in the camp, he used to work for his father. 
Esau used to bring meat for his father to eat. That is why Isaac used to like his eldest one. The mother used to like the youngest one. 
One day Jacob was cooking food, red food, the name for that is lentil. Esau returned after having gone hunting. He was hungry. 
He said to his younger brother, “I am hungry. Give me some of that red food.” (Because of that they gave him another name, Edom.) 
Jacob replied, “Wait a bit! Tell me your true word. You are the eldest one. Later our father will die. After that you will be boss for us two. You will get the big lot of the belongings. I will get the small lot. Tell me I will be like the older brother. Tell me like that, after that I will give you food.” 
Esau replied, “Without the food I might die. After that I will not get the belongings, I will not be older brother for you. That is just true. Give me some of that food!” 
Jacob replied, “Give me a straight word. After that I will give you food.” Esau thought to himself he should just stay not being boss for him, he was wanting to be without caring. He gave the word to him, “Yes, you can be like the older brother.” 
Therefore Jacob gave him damper and red food. After that Esau ate, he drank, he went away without caring. 
