Genesis.
Chapter 8.
7:24—8:3 God was caring for those who were in the boat. He sent a wind. After that the flood abated. It was going down slowly for 4 months. They were staying in the boat a long time, they were waiting for the flood to go down. After that the flood left the boat on top of the hills. It came to rest (lit: 'sat down') on top of the hills. The name of that hilly place was Ararat. 
The flood was continuing to go down. After that, after 3 months, the heads of the hills appeared after being hidden by the water. The water kept going down. 
After that, after one month, Noah sent out a crow. The crow was searching for dry ground and trees. He went away for good, he didn't return. 
After that, after 7 days, Noah sent another creature, a dove. It was searching in vain for dry ground. Soon it returned to the boat. Noah stretched out his arm, the dove landed on his arm, Noah put him inside the boat. 
Noah waited seven days. After that again he sent out the dove. 
In the late afternoon it returned to the boat, it carried a leaf in its mouth. Noah said, “The water is really going down.” 
After that, in seven days, Noah again tried out the dove. It went away for good, it did not return. It saw ground. 
Noah waited one month. After that he looked around. 
Truly the ground was getting dry, the ground was hard. 
Then God said to Noah, “You (pl) get down and make the animals and birds get down. They've got to scatter. They have to become many everywhere.” 
Then they got down from the boat, Noah and his wife and children and daughters-in-law and the different kinds of animals and birds. 
Noah heaped up stones. He got a few tame animals and tame birds to give to God. He killed them, on top of the stones he burned/cooked them, bones and all, completely dry, to ashes. They used to do that in the beginning, in order to please God. 
In return God said to Noah, “Previously I made it bad for the whole earth because of the evil that people did. I won't do like that again. I know about people. From childhood they are thinking only about how to do really bad (things). I will not again kill people and all creatures truly because of the evil that people have done. I did it once. I won't do it again. 
Now summer and winter will follow each other. Heat and cold will follow each other. Day and night will follow each other. Just like that they will be.” 
