Genesis.
Chapter 1.
At the first, long ago God made the sky and the ground. 
That ground was just staying purposeless. Water was obscuring everything, water was covering everything. In every direction it was dark. His spirit was going above the water. 
God said, “Become light!” After that it became light at his word. 
When he saw it he said, “Good”. He separated the light and the darkness. 
He named the darkness, 'night-that', the light he named, 'day-that'. After that it became night, after that it became dawn. Another day appeared/arrived. 
Then he said, “Sky become, in order to separate the water and the clouds!” 
That happened. The clouds went upwards, they left the water underneath. 
That sky he named, 'sky-that'. After that it became night, after that it became dawn. Another day appeared. 
Then he said, “Water go down, become in one place, dry ground appear, become visible!” That happened. The water went down, it left the ground visible. 
That dry ground he named, 'country-that'. That big water he named, 'sea-that'. When he saw it he said “Good”. 
After that he said, “Different kinds of trees appear and different kinds of green plants, with separate foods!” That happened. 
From the ground different kinds of trees appeared, some with foods, some without, and different kinds of green plants appeared also, some with foods, some without. When he saw it he said “Good.” 
After that it became night, after that it became dawn. Another day appeared. 
Then he said, “Lights become above in the sky, in order to light the countryside. They should give light in the night and in the day. They should keep winter and summer straight.” That happened. 
He made two big ones, the sun and the moon. The big one should make it light truly from dawn right up to evening. The small one should make it light truly in the night. He made the stars also. 
He put them in the sky to light the countryside and also to separate the darkness and the day. When he saw it he said “Good.” 
After that it became night, after that it became dawn. Another day appeared. 
Then he said, “Many different kinds of water dwellers become in the water-holes and in the sea. Birds become to go above. Birds: lit. 'winged things' — includes insects 
Then he made very big animals in the sea. He also made big and little fish of different kinds. In the rivers and water-holes he made different kinds of fish. And he made all the other water dwellers in the water-holes and seas. He made different kinds of winged creatures also. When he saw it he said “Good.” 
He spoke well to them. He spoke to them all, “I will take care of you. You will truly become many, and many children you will have/care for truly.” 
After that it became night, after that it became dawn. Another day appeared. 
Then he said, “Different kinds of animals become on the ground, to live in the countryside, to go about on the ground, plains-dwelling animals and hills-dwellers, big ones and small ones!” That happened. 
He made them all. When he looked at it he said “Good.” 
After that he said, “We will make people like us. They will be boss for all the animals, and for all the fish and for all the winged creatures and for the ones that go on the ground.” 
God made a man like him. He made a man and a woman. 
He spoke well to these two, “You will control/have/take care of many children truly. Truly people will be everywhere, you (pl.) will be boss for all the animals. You will be boss for the fish and winged creatures and all animals and for all those that go on the ground. 
I made different foods for you (all), all the foods from trees and green plants I am giving you. 
For the animals and winged creatures and all the ones that go on the ground I made green plants with food. I left it for them.” 
Truly he made the whole lot. When he had finished making them God looked at them all. He said, “Very good.” Like that God made everything. He made everything in six days. After that it became night, after that it became dawn. Another day appeared. 
