Mark.
Chapter 7.
After that Jesus left his country. He went northwards, he went to another country belonging to foreigners, to the country named Syro-Phoenicia. He was staying close to a town, its name was Tyre. He entered a house to be alone. He said to himself, “The local people don't know me. They will not recognise me.” No. In vain he tried to avoid them. 
Soon a woman of the area heard about Jesus. She was a different woman, not a Jew, from the country of Syro-Phoenicia. That woman had a daughter. An evil spirit was controlling her child. That woman left her child in the camp, she came to Jesus, she knelt in front of him, she begged him, “Send away an evil spirit from my little child.” 
Jesus replied kindly to her, “Children should eat food, then you will give food to the little dogs. Don't take the children's food to throw to the little dogs.” With that word Jesus told the woman, “I will do good for the Jewish people, not now will I do good for people from other countries. That is for later.” 
The woman replied, “Yes, boss! That word is a true. The children should eat the food. After that the little dogs will eat. Truly the child eat food, The little dogs eat the left-overs that have fallen from the hands of the children.” 
Jesus said to her, “You spoke well. For that word I will make your child well. You can go. Already the spirit has left your child.” 
At his word the woman went, she went to her camp, she saw her child. She was sleeping on her blanket well. The spirit had already gone from her. 
After that Jesus again went northwards to Sidon. He went eastwwards, southwards to the 10 Towns, after that he return to the waterhole Galilee. 
They brought to him a deaf man, his tongue was weak, he had difficulty talking. They said to Jesus, “Touch this man with your hand, make him well.” 
Jesus took the man away so they wouldn't be seen. He put his two hands on the man's ears. After that he spat on his own hand, he put it on the tongue of the man. 
Then Jesus looked up, he took a very big breath. Then he said to the man, “Ears open!” 
At his word right then the man's two ears opened, his tongue became good. Then that spoke well. 
Jesus told the people of the area, “Don't tell others I healed the ears and tongue of that man.” They ignored Jesus' word. They continued telling everybody Jesus had done like that for that man. 
Everyone heard, they were really pleased about him, they were puzzling about him. They were telling people, “Truly Jesus has been doing the right thing. Some who have been without speech become talkers, some who have been deaf become hearers. He has been doing good to them also. It is not hard (lit. 'a puzzle') for him.” 
