Mark.
Chapter 8.
Again one day many people gathered together in the desert. They were listening to Jesus. After that their food ran out (lit. 'became nothing for them'). Jesus called his men, he said to them, 
“These people have been with me a long time, three days. Now their food has run out. I feel sorry for them. 
I will not send them away to their countries hungry. When they go they would fall down with hunger. They have come from a long way.” 
His men said to him, “This countryside has no food. Who will search here and get food for all those people? They are truly very many.” 
Jesus asked them, “How many dampers do you have?” They replied, “7 small dampers.” 
They also had a few small fish. Jesus said to them, “Tell them to sit on the ground.” After that he picked up the dampers, the fish also, he said to God, “You are the one who gave us this food. Thank you! You have helped us! You are good!” Then he broke the dampers into pieces, he gave them to his men, he gave them the fish also, the said to them, “Give this food and meat to them.” That's what they did. 
At that time very many people ate, 4,000 men ate till they were full. Then Jesus told them, “Yes, off you go to your own countries.” After that Jesus' men picked up the leftovers, they filled 7 big carrying dishes with leftovers. 
After that Jesus got into the dinghy, his men also, they went to that country Dalmanutha. 
Jesus went to that town Bethsaida. Some people brought to him a man on a lead, he was truly blind, he could not see. They begged Jesus, “Touch him to make him well.” 
Jesus took the blind man by the hand to outside the town. He spat on his own hand, he touched the spit, he put it on the man's eyes, he asked him, “Do you see?” 
The man looked around a bit, he said to him, “I see people blurrily. I think they look like trees. My eyes deceive me. They are not trees. They have been walking around.” 
Again Jesus put his hands on the man's eyes. The man was looking carefully, he saw well. 
Jesus sent him to his camp. He told him, “Do not go to that town, do not tell them I did this for you.” 
