Genesis.
Chapter 35.
After that God said to Jacob, “Leave this country, go to Bethel, stay there. That is where I appeared to you earlier, when you were running away afraid because of your brother Esau. As soon you come to Bethel you will pile up stones, there you will talk to me.” In that way God talked to Jacob. 
Then Jacob spoke to his wives (pl) and his workers. He said to them, “Leave your what's-their-names, those carved things like Dreamtime-Beings, from another country. Then wash yourselves, put on other clothes. 
After that we will leave this camp, we will go to Bethel. Earlier I ran away afraid because of Esau. That is where I called to God, he listened to me. He is the one who took care of me wherever I was going. At Bethel I will pile up stones, I will talk to God there.” 
At Jacob's word they gave him all their Dreamtime-Being-like things, their earrings also they gave him. He dug a hole near a tree, there in the hole which had been dug he covered them. 
After that Jacob and his mob were going towards Bethel. God made the inhabitants of the area afraid, they did not chase Jacob. 
Jacob's mob arrived at Bethel in the country, in what's-its-name, in Canaan. 
There Jacob piled up stones, he talked to God. Earlier when Jacob was running away from his brother God appeared to him there. It was at that time Jacob had named that country El-Bethel. That name says, 'God is at Bethel'. Verse 8 omitted. 
When Jacob returned from his uncle's country, God again appeared to Jacob, he spoke very kindly to him. 
He gave Jacob another name, that name Israel. He said to Jacob, “Your name used to be Jacob. Now they will not call you Jacob, they will name you Israel. 
I am truly God, the boss for you all. I will give you many grandchildren. They will be very many. They will go far away, to other countries. Some will be big bosses, they will be kings. 
Earlier I gave this country to your grandfather and your father, to Abraham and Isaac. Now I will give it to you and your grandchildren, and those who come after them.” In that way he talked to Jacob. 
After that God left him. 
Right there Jacob stood up a big stone, he stood it upright. He poured wine and oil on the stone to give them to God. 
That place where God came to him he named Bethel. 
After that Jacob's mob left Bethel, they went towards what's-its-name, towards Ephrath. At that time his wife Rachel was pregnant. Partway she gave birth to the child, there she was very sick. 
Another woman was waiting for the child to appear. “Don't be afraid, don't worry, you will have a male child.” 
Rachel was very sick, slowly she was dying. In preparation for dying she named that child Benoni. Later Jacob gave him another name, Benjamin. 
They put Rachel in a hole in the ground near the road, that road was going to Ephrath. (Nowadays they name that town Bethlehem.) 
Jacob stood up a big stone, he stood it upright, on top of where they put Rachel in the ground. That stone is still there now. 
After that Jacob's mob kept going. They made camp on the far side of what's-that-place, of Eder. 35:22-26 omitted. 
After that Jacob returned to his father's camp at what's-its-name, at Mamre. (Another name for that town is Hebron.) Earlier Jacob's grandfather and father, Abraham and Isaac, made their camps there. 
Isaac was very old, having 180 years. After that he died. His two sons Esau and Jacob buried him. 
