The Letter of Paul to Titus.
Chapter 1.
Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the faith of God's chosen people and the knowledge of the truth that agrees with godliness, 
with the certain hope of everlasting life that God, who does not lie, promised before all the ages of time. 
At the right time, he revealed his word by the message that he trusted me to deliver. I was to do this by the command of God our savior. 
To Titus, a true son in our common faith. Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our savior. 
For this purpose I left you in Crete, that you might set in order things not yet complete and ordain elders in every city as I directed you. 
An elder must be without blame, the husband of one wife, with faithful children who do not have the reputation of being reckless or undisciplined. 
It is necessary for the overseer, as God's household manager, to be blameless. He must not be arrogant, not be easily angered, not addicted to wine, not a brawler, and not a greedy man. 
Instead, he should be hospitable and a friend of what is good. He must be sensible, righteous, godly, and self-controlled. 
He should hold tightly to the trustworthy message that was taught, so that he may be able to encourage others with good teaching and correct those who oppose him. 
For there are many rebellious people, empty talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision. 
It is necessary to stop them. They are upsetting whole families by teaching for shameful profit what they should not teach. 
One of their own prophets has said, “Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons.” 
This statement is true. Therefore, correct them severely, so that they may be sound in the faith, 
not paying any attention to Jewish myths or to the commands of people who turn away from the truth. 
To those who are pure, all things are pure. But to those who are corrupt and unbelieving, nothing is pure, but both their minds and their consciences have been corrupted. 
They profess to know God, but they deny him by their actions. They are detestable, disobedient, and unfit for doing any good work. 
