The First Book of the Chronicles.
Chapter 1.
Adam, Seth, Enosh, 
Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared, 
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech. 
The sons of Noah were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
The sons of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshek, and Tiras. 
The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah. 
The sons of Javan were Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittites, and the Rodanites. 
The sons of Ham were Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan. 
The sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah, and Sabteka. The sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan. 
Cush became the father of Nimrod, who was the first conqueror on the earth. 
Egypt became the ancestor of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, Naphtuhites, 
Pathrusites, Kasluhites (from whom the Philistines came), and the Caphtorites. 
Canaan became the father of Sidon, his firstborn, and of the Hittites. 
He also became the ancestor of the Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites, 
Hivites, Arkites, Sinites, 
Arvadites, Zemarites, and the Hamathites. 
The sons of Shem were Elam, Ashur, Arphaxad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshek. 
Arphaxad became the father of Shelah, and Shelah became the father of Eber. 
Eber had two sons. The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided. His brother's name was Joktan. 
Joktan became the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, 
Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 
Obal, Abimael, Sheba, 
Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were descendants of Joktan. 
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah, 
Eber, Peleg, Reu, 
Serug, Nahor, Terah, 
Abram, who was Abraham. 
The sons of Abraham were Isaac and Ishmael. 
These are their sons: the firstborn of Ishmael was Nebaioth, then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, 
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema, 
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These were Ishmael's sons. 
The sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine, were Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. The sons of Jokshan were Sheba and Dedan. 
Midian's sons were Ephah, Epher, Hanok, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were Keturah's descendants. 
Abraham became the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac were Esau and Israel. 
The sons of Esau were Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. 
The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek. 
The sons of Reuel were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. 
The sons of Seir were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. 
The sons of Lotan were Hori and Homam, and Timna was Lotan's sister. 
The sons of Shobal were Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon were Aiah and Anah. 
The son of Anah was Dishon. The sons of Dishon were Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Keran. 
The sons of Ezer were Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan. The sons of Dishan were Uz and Aran. 
These were the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the Israelites: Bela son of Beor, and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place. 
When Jobab died, Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place. 
When Husham died, Hadad son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the land of Moab, reigned in his place. The name of his city was Avith. 
When Hadad died, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place. 
When Samlah died, Shaul of Rehoboth on the river reigned in his place. 
When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan son of Akbor reigned in his place. 
When Baal-Hanan son of Akbor died, Hadad reigned in his place. The name of his city was Pau. His wife's name was Mehetabel daughter of Matred daughter of Me-Zahab. 
Hadad died. The chiefs in Edom were Chief Timna, Chief Alvah, Chief Jetheth, 
Chief Oholibamah, Chief Elah, Chief Pinon, 
Chief Kenaz, Chief Teman, Chief Mibzar, 
Chief Magdiel, and Chief Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom. 
