Psalms.
Chapter 37.
A psalm of David. Do not be irritated because of evildoers; do not be envious of those who act unrighteously. 
For they will soon dry up as the grass and wither as the green plants. 
Trust in Yahweh and do what is good; settle in the land and graze in faithfulness. 
Then delight yourself in Yahweh, and he will give you the desires of your heart. 
Give your ways to Yahweh; trust in him, and he will act on your behalf. 
He will display your justice like the daylight and your innocence like the day at noon. 
Be still before Yahweh and wait patiently for him. Do not be angry if someone succeeds in what he does, or when he makes evil plots. 
Do not be angry and frustrated. Do not worry. This only makes trouble. 
Evildoers will be cut off, but those who wait for Yahweh will inherit the land. 
In a little while the evil man will disappear; you will look at his place, but he will be gone. 
But the meek will inherit the land and will delight in great prosperity. 
The wicked man plots against the righteous and he grinds his teeth in rage against him. 
The Lord laughs at him, for he sees that his day is coming. 
The wicked have drawn out their swords and have bent their bows to cast down the oppressed and needy, to kill those who are upright. 
Their swords will pierce their own hearts, and their bows will be broken. 
Better is the little that the righteous has than the abundance of many wicked people. 
For the arms of the wicked people will be broken, but Yahweh supports the righteous people. 
Yahweh watches over the blameless day by day, and their heritage will be forever. 
They will not be ashamed when times are bad. When famine comes, they will have enough to eat. 
But evil men will perish. Yahweh's enemies will be like the glory of the pastures; they will be consumed and disappear in the smoke. 
The wicked person borrows but does not repay, but the righteous person is generous and gives. 
Those who are blessed by God will inherit the land; those who are cursed by him will be cut off. 
It is by Yahweh that a man's steps are established, the man whose way is commendable in God's sight. 
Though he stumbles, he will not fall down, for Yahweh is holding him with his hand. 
I was young and now am old; I have never seen the righteous person abandoned or his children begging for bread. 
All the day long he is gracious and lends, and his children become a blessing. 
Turn away from evil and do what is right; then you will be safe forever. 
For Yahweh loves justice and does not abandon his faithful followers. They are preserved forever, but the descendants of the wicked will be cut off. 
The righteous will inherit the land and live there forever. 
The mouth of the righteous person speaks wisdom and increases justice. 
The law of his God is in his heart; his feet will not slip. 
The wicked person watches the righteous person and seeks to kill him. 
Yahweh will not abandon him into the evil person's hand or condemn him when he is judged. 
Wait for Yahweh and keep his way, and he will raise you up to possess the land. You will see when the wicked are cut off. 
I have seen the wicked and terrifying person spread out like a green tree in its native soil. 
But when I passed by again, he was not there. I looked for him, but he could not be found. 
Observe the man of integrity, and mark the upright; there is a good future for a man of peace. 
Sinners will be totally destroyed; the future for the wicked man is cut off. 
Salvation of the righteous comes from Yahweh; he protects them in the times of trouble. 
Yahweh helps them and rescues them. He rescues them from evil men and saves them because they have taken refuge in him. 
