Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 12.
Miriam and Aaron Light-bringer spoke against Moses Drawn out because of the Cushite woman whom he had married; for he had married a Cushite woman. 
They said, “Has Adonai indeed spoken only with Moses Drawn out? Has not he spoken also with us?” And Adonai sh'ma ·heard obeyed· it. 
Now the man Moses Drawn out was very humble, more than all the men who were on the surface of the earth. 
Adonai spoke suddenly to Moses Drawn out, to Aaron Light-bringer, and to Miriam, “You three come out to the Tent of Meeting!” The three of them came out. 
Adonai came down in a pillar of cloud, and stood at the door of the Tent, and called Aaron Light-bringer and Miriam; and they both came forward. 
He said, “Now sh'ma ·hear obey· my words. If there is a prophet among you, I, Adonai , will make myself known to him in a vision. I will speak with him in a dream. 
My servant Moses Drawn out is not so. He is faithful in all my house. 
With him, I will speak mouth to mouth, even plainly, and not in riddles; and he shall see Adonai ’s form. Why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant, against Moses Drawn out?” 
Adonai ’s anger burned against them; and he departed. 
The cloud departed from over the Tent; and behold, Miriam was leprous, as white as snow. Aaron Light-bringer looked at Miriam, and behold, she was leprous. 
Aaron Light-bringer said to Moses Drawn out, “Oh, my lord, please don’t count this sin against us, in which we have done foolishly, and in which we have sinned. 
Let her not, I pray, be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed when he comes out of his mother’s womb.” 
Moses Drawn out cried to Adonai , saying, “Heal her, God, I beg you!” (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “If her father had but spit in her face, should not she be ashamed seven days? Let her be shut up outside of the camp seven days, and after that she shall be brought in again.” 
Miriam was shut up outside of the camp seven days, and the people didn’t travel until Miriam was brought in again. 
Afterward the people traveled from Hazeroth, and encamped in the wilderness of Paran. 
