Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 20.
Abraham Father of a multitude traveled from there toward the land of the South, and lived between Kadesh and Shur. He lived as a foreigner in Gerar. 
Abraham Father of a multitude said about Sarah Princess his wife, “She is my sister.” Abimelech My father king king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah Princess. 
But God came to Abimelech My father king in a dream of the night, and said to him, “Behold, you are a dead man, because of the woman whom you have taken. For she is a man’s wife.” 
Now Abimelech My father king had not come near her. He said, “Lord, will you kill even a upright nation? 
Didn’t he tell me, ‘She is my sister?’ She, even she herself, said, ‘He is my brother.’ In the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands have I done this.” 
God said to him in the dream, “Yes, I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, and I also withheld you from sinning against me. Therefore I didn’t allow you to touch her. 
Now therefore, restore the man’s wife. For he is a prophet, and he will pray for you, and you will live. If you don’t restore her, know for sure that you will die, you, and all who are yours.” 
Abimelech My father king rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ear. The men were very scared. 
Then Abimelech My father king called Abraham Father of a multitude, and said to him, “What have you done to us? How have I sinned against you, that you have brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? You have done deeds to me that ought not to be done!” 
Abimelech My father king said to Abraham Father of a multitude, “What did you see, that you have done this thing?” 
Abraham Father of a multitude said, “Because I thought, ‘Surely the fear of God is not in this place. They will kill me for my wife’s sake.’ 
Besides, she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife. 
When God caused me to wander from my father’s house, I said to her, ‘This is your cheshed ·loving-kindness· which you shall show to me. Everywhere that we go, say of me, “He is my brother.”’” 
Abimelech My father king took sheep and cattle, male servants and female servants, and gave them to Abraham Father of a multitude, and restored Sarah Princess, his wife, to him. 
Abimelech My father king said, “Behold, my land is before you. Dwell where it pleases you.” 
To Sarah Princess he said, “Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver. Behold, it is for you a covering of the eyes to all that are with you. In front of all you are vindicated.” 
Abraham Father of a multitude prayed to God. God healed Abimelech My father king, and his wife, and his female servants, and they bore children. 
For Adonai had closed up tight all the wombs of the house of Abimelech My father king, because of Sarah Princess, Abraham Father of a multitude’s wife. 
