John [Yah is gracious].
Chapter 12.
Then six days before the Pesac ·Passover· (Nissan 8), Yeshua Salvation came to Bethany House of affliction, where Lazarus Help of God was, who had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. 
So they made him a supper there. Martha Lady mistress, Strong bitterness served, but Lazarus Help of God was one of those who sat at the table with him. 
Mary Rebellion, therefore, took a pound of ointment of pure nard, very precious, and anointed the feet of Yeshua Salvation, and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment. 
Then Judas Iscariot Praised Dagger-man, Simeon Hearing’s son, one of his disciples, who would betray him, said, 
“Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii (300 days wages), and given to the poor?” 
Now he said this, not because he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief, and having the money box, used to steal what was put into it. 
But Yeshua Salvation said, “Leave her alone. She has kept this for the day of my burial. 
For you always have the poor with you, but you don’t always have me.” 
A large crowd therefore of the Jews Praisers learned that he was there, and they came, not for Yeshua Salvation's sake only, but that they might see Lazarus Help of God also, whom he had raised from the dead. 
But the chief priests conspired to put Lazarus Help of God to death also, 
because on account of him many of the Jews Praisers went away and believed in Yeshua Salvation. 
On the next day a great multitude had come to the feast. When they heard that Yeshua Salvation was coming to Jerusalem City of peace, 
they took the branches of the palm trees, and went out to meet him, shouting, “ Hosanna! ·Save now!· Blessed is he who comes in the name of MarYah Master Yahweh, the Melek Isra'el King of God prevails!” 
Yeshua Salvation, having found a young donkey, sat on it. As it is written, 
“Don’t be afraid, daughter of Zion Mountain ridge, Marking. Behold, your King comes, sitting on a donkey’s colt.” 
His disciples didn’t understand these things at first, but when Yeshua Salvation was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about him, and that they had done these things to him. 
The multitude therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus Help of God out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, was testifying about it. 
For this cause also the multitude went and met him, because they heard that he had done this sign. 
The Pharisees Separated therefore said among themselves, “See how you accomplish nothing. Behold, the world has gone after him.” 
Now there were certain Greeks among those that went up to worship at the feast. 
These, therefore, came to Philip Loves horses, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee District, Circuit, and asked him, saying, “Sir, we want to see Yeshua Salvation.” 
Philip Loves horses came and told Andrew Manly, and in turn, Andrew Manly came with Philip Loves horses, and they told Yeshua Salvation. 
Yeshua Salvation answered them, “The time has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. 
Most certainly I tell you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains by itself alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. 
He who phileo ·affectionately loves, has high regard for· his life will lose it. He who hates his life in this world will keep it to eternal life. 
If anyone serves me, let him follow me. Where I am, there will my servant also be. If anyone serves me, haAbba ·the Father· will honor him. 
“Now my soul is troubled. What shall I say? ‘ Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad·, save me from this time?’ But for this cause I came to this time. 
Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad·, glorify your name!” Then there came a voice out of the sky, saying, “I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.” 
The multitude therefore, who stood by and heard it, said that it had thundered. Others said, “An angel has spoken to him.” 
Yeshua Salvation answered, “This voice has not come for my sake, but for your sakes. 
Now is the judgment of this world. Now the prince of this world will be cast out. 
And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself.” 
But he said this, signifying by what kind of death he should die. 
The multitude answered him, “We have learned from the Torah ·Teaching· that the Messiah Anointed one remains forever. How do you say, ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up?’ Who is this Son of Man?” 
Yeshua Salvation therefore said to them, “Yet a little while the light is with you. Walk while you have the light, that darkness does not overtake you. He who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. 
While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become children of light.” Yeshua Salvation said these things, and he departed and hid himself from them. 
But though he had done so many signs before them, yet they didn’t believe in him, 
that the word of Isaiah Salvation of Yah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spoke, “ Adonai, who has believed our report? To has the arm of Yahweh been revealed?” 
For this cause they couldn’t believe, for Isaiah Salvation of Yah said again, 
“He has blinded their eyes and he hardened their heart, lest they should see with their eyes, and perceive with their heart, and would make teshuvah ·completely return in repentance·, and I would heal them.” 
Isaiah Salvation of Yah said these things when he saw his shekhinah ·manifest weighty glory and presence of God·, and spoke of him. 
Nevertheless even of the rulers many believed in him, but because of the Pharisees Separated they didn’t confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue, 
for they had agapao ·total devotion love· for men’s praise more than God’s praise. 
Yeshua Salvation cried out and said, “Whoever believes in me, believes not in me, but in him who sent me. 
He who sees me sees him who sent me. 
I have come whom as a light into the world, that whoever believes in me may not remain in the darkness. 
If anyone listens to my sayings, and does not believe, I don’t judge him. For I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. 
He who rejects me, and does not receive my sayings, has one who judges him. The word that I spoke, the same will judge him in the last day. 
For I spoke not from myself, but haAbba ·the Father· who sent me, he gave me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak. 
I know that his commandment is eternal life. The things therefore which I speak, even as haAbba ·the Father· has said to me, so I speak.” 
