Matthew [Gift of Yah].
Chapter 3.
In those days, John Yah is gracious the Immerser came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea Praise, saying , 
“ Teshuvah ·Turn repent·, for the Kingdom of Heaven (God) is at hand!” 
For this is he who was spoken of by Isaiah Salvation of Yah the prophet, saying, “The voice of one crying in the wilderness, make ready the way of MarYah Master Yahweh. Make his paths straight.” 
Now John Yah is gracious himself wore clothing made of camel’s hair, with a leather belt around his waist. His food was locusts and wild honey. 
Then people from Jerusalem City of peace, all of Judea Praise, and all the region around the Jordan Descender went out to him. 
They were baptized by him in the Jordan Descender, confessing their sins. 
But when he saw many of the Pharisees Separated and Sadducees Morally-upright coming for his baptism, he said to them, “You offspring of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? 
Therefore produce fruit worthy of teshuvah ·complete repentance·! 
Don’t think to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham Father of a multitude Avinu ·our Father·,’ for I tell you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham Father of a multitude from these stones. 
“Even now the ax lies at the root of the trees. Therefore every tree that does not produce good fruit is cut down, and cast into the fire. 
I indeed baptize you in water for teshuvah ·complete repentance·, but he who comes after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you in Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness. 
His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor. He will gather his wheat into the barn, but the chaff he will burn up with unquenchable fire.” 
Then Yeshua Salvation came from Galilee District, Circuit to the Jordan Descender to John Yah is gracious, to be baptized by him. 
But John Yah is gracious would have hindered him, saying, “I need to be baptized by you, and you come to me?” 
But Yeshua Salvation, answering, said to him, “Allow it now, for this is the fitting way for us to fulfill all righteousness.” Then he allowed him. 
Yeshua Salvation, when he was baptized, went up directly from the water: and behold, the heavens were opened to him. He saw haRuach the Spirit of God descending as a dove, and coming on him. 
Behold, a voice out of the heavens said, “This is my agapetos ·beloved, esteemed· Son, with whom I am well pleased.” 
