Psalms [Praises].
Chapter 119.
Blessed are those whose ways are blameless, who walk according to Adonai ’s Torah ·Teaching·. 
Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart. 
Yes, they do nothing wrong. They walk in his ways. 
You have enjoined your precepts, that we should fully obey them. 
Oh that my ways were steadfast to obey your statutes! 
Then I would not be disappointed, when I consider all of your mitzvot ·instructions·. 
I will yadah ·extend hands in thankful praise· to you with uprightness of heart, when I learn your righteous judgments. 
I will observe your statutes. Don’t utterly forsake me. BET and VET 
How can a young man keep his way pure? By living according to your word. 
With my whole heart, I have sought you. Don’t let me wander from your mitzvot ·instructions·. 
I have hidden your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you. 
Blessed are you, Adonai . Teach me your statutes. 
With my lips, I have declared all the judgments of your mouth. 
I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies, as much as in all riches. 
I will meditate on your precepts, and consider your ways. 
I will delight myself in your regulations. I will not forget your word. GIMEL 
Do good to your servant. I will live and I will obey your word. 
Open my eyes, that I may see wondrous things out of your Torah ·Teaching·. 
I am a stranger on the earth. Don’t hide your mitzvot ·instructions·from me. 
My soul is consumed with longing for your judgments at all times. 
You have rebuked the proud who are cursed, who wander from your mitzvot ·instructions·. 
Take reproach and contempt away from me, for I have kept your testimonies. 
Though princes sit and slander me, your servant will meditate on your statutes. 
Indeed your testimonies are my delight, and my counselors. DALET 
My soul is laid low in the dust. Revive me according to your word! 
I declared my ways, and you answered me. Teach me your statutes. 
Let me understand the teaching of your precepts! Then I will meditate on your wondrous works. 
My soul is weary with sorrow: strengthen me according to your word. 
Keep me from the way of deceit. Teach me your Torah ·Teaching· in your favor! 
I have chosen the way of truth. I have set your judgments before me. 
I cling to your testimonies, Adonai . Don’t let me be disappointed. 
I run in the path of your mitzvot ·instructions·, for you have set my heart free. HEY 
Teach me, Adonai , the way of your statutes. I will keep them to the end. 
Give me understanding, and I will keep your Torah ·Teaching·. Yes, I will obey it with my whole heart. 
Direct me in the path of your mitzvot ·instructions·, for I delight in them. 
Turn my heart toward your testimonies, not toward selfish gain. 
Turn my eyes away from looking at worthless things. Revive me in your ways. 
Fulfill your promise to your servant, that you may be feared. 
Take away my disgrace that I dread, for your judgments are good. 
Behold, I long for your precepts! Revive me in your righteousness. VAV 
Let your cheshed ·loving-kindness· also come to me, Adonai , your salvation, according to your word. 
So I will have an answer for him who reproaches me, for I trust in your word. 
Don’t snatch the word of truth out of my mouth, for I put my hope in your judgments. 
So I will obey your Torah ·Teaching· continually, forever and ever. 
I will walk in liberty, for I have sought your precepts. 
I will also speak of your testimonies before kings, and will not be disappointed. 
I will delight myself in your mitzvot ·instructions·, because I 'ahav ·affectionately love· them. 
I reach out my hands for your mitzvot ·instructions·, which I 'ahav ·affectionately love·. I will meditate on your statutes. ZAYIN 
Remember your word to your servant, because you gave me hope. 
This is my comfort in my affliction, for your word has revived me. 
The arrogant mock me excessively, but I don’t swerve from your Torah ·Teaching·. 
I remember your judgments of old, Adonai , and have comforted myself. 
Indignation has taken hold on me, because of the wicked who forsake your Torah ·Teaching·. 
Your statutes have been my songs, in the house where I live. 
I have remembered your name, Adonai , in the night, and I obey your Torah ·Teaching·. 
This is my way, that I keep your precepts. HET or CHET 
Adonai is my portion. I promised to obey your words. 
I sought your favor with my whole heart. Be merciful to me according to your word. 
I considered my ways, and turned my steps to your testimonies. 
I will hurry, and not delay, to obey your mitzvot ·instructions·. 
The ropes of the wicked bind me, but I won’t forget your Torah ·Teaching·. 
At midnight I will rise to yadah ·extend hands in thankful praise· to you, because of your righteous judgments. 
I am a friend of all those who fear you, of those who observe your precepts. 
The earth is full of your cheshed ·loving-kindness·, Adonai . Teach me your statutes. TET 
Do good to your servant, according to your word, Adonai . 
Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your mitzvot ·instructions·. 
Before I was afflicted, I went astray; but now I observe your word. 
You are good, and do good. Teach me your statutes. 
The proud have smeared a lie upon me. With my whole heart, I will keep your precepts. 
Their heart is as callous as the fat, but I delight in your Torah ·Teaching·. 
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn your statutes. 
The Torah ·Teaching· of your mouth is better to me than thousands of pieces of gold and silver. YOD or YUD 
Your hands have made me and formed me. Give me understanding, that I may learn your mitzvot ·instructions·. 
Those who fear you will see me and be glad, because I have put my hope in your word. 
Adonai , I know that your judgments are righteous, that in faithfulness you have afflicted me. 
Please let your cheshed ·loving-kindness· be for my comfort, according to your word to your servant. 
Let your tender racham ·merciful love· come to me, that I may live; for your Torah ·Teaching· is my delight. 
Let the proud be disappointed, for they have overthrown me wrongfully. I will meditate on your precepts. 
Let those who fear you turn to me. They will know your testimonies. 
Let my heart be blameless toward your statutes, that I may not be disappointed. KAF 
My soul faints for your salvation. I hope in your word. 
My eyes fail for your word. I say, “When will you comfort me?” 
For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke. I don’t forget your statutes. 
How many are the days of your servant? When will you execute judgement on those who persecute me? 
The proud have dug pits for me, contrary to your Torah ·Teaching·. 
All of your mitzvot ·instructions· are faithful. They persecute me wrongfully. Help me! 
They had almost wiped me from the earth, but I didn’t forsake your precepts. 
Preserve my life according to your cheshed ·loving-kindness·, so I will obey the testimonies of your mouth. LAMED 
Adonai , your word is settled in heaven forever. 
Your faithfulness is to all generations. You have established the earth, and it remains. 
Your judgments remain to this day, for all things serve you. 
Unless your Torah ·Teaching· had been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction. 
I will never forget your precepts, for with them, you have revived me. 
I am yours. Save me, for I have sought your precepts. 
The wicked have waited for me, to destroy me. I will consider your testimonies. 
I have seen a limit to all perfection, but your mitzvot ·instructions· are boundless. MEM 
How I 'ahav ·affectionately love· your Torah ·Teaching·! It is my meditation all day. 
I am wiser than my enemies, for your mitzvot ·instructions· are always with me. 
I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation. 
I understand more than the aged, because I have kept your precepts. 
I have kept my feet from every evil way, that I might observe your word. 
I have not turned aside from your judgments, for you have taught me. 
How sweet are your promises to my taste, more than honey to my mouth! 
Through your precepts, I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way. NUN 
Your word is a lamp candle to my feet, and a light for my path. 
I have sworn, and have confirmed it, that I will obey your righteous judgments. 
I am afflicted very much. Revive me, Adonai , according to your word. 
Accept, I beg you, the willing offerings of my mouth. Adonai , teach me your judgments. 
My soul is continually in my hand, yet I won’t forget your Torah ·Teaching·. 
The wicked have laid a snare for me, yet I haven’t gone astray from your precepts. 
I have taken your testimonies as a heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart. 
I have set my heart to perform your statutes forever, even to the end. SAMECH 
I hate double-minded men, but I 'ahav ·affectionately love· your Torah ·Teaching·. 
You are my hiding place and my shield. I hope in your word. 
Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the mitzvot ·instructions· of my God. 
Uphold me according to your word, that I may live. Let me not be ashamed of my hope. 
Hold me up, and I will be safe, and will have respect for your statutes continually. 
You reject all those who stray from your statutes, for their deceit is in vain. 
You put away all the wicked of the earth like dross. Therefore I 'ahav ·affectionately love· your testimonies. 
My flesh trembles for fear of you. I am afraid of your judgments. 'AYIN 
I have done what is mishpat ·just· and upright. Don’t leave me to my oppressors. 
Ensure your servant’s well-being. Don’t let the proud oppress me. 
My eyes fail looking for your yishu'ah ·salvation·, for your righteous word. 
Deal with your servant according to your cheshed ·loving-kindness·. Teach me your statutes. 
I am your servant. Give me understanding, that I may know your testimonies. 
It is time to act, Adonai , for they break your Torah ·Teaching·. 
Therefore I 'ahav ·affectionately love· your mitzvot ·instructions· more than gold, yes, more than pure gold. 
Therefore I consider all of your precepts to be right. I hate every false way. PEH or FEH 
Your testimonies are wonderful, therefore my soul keeps them. 
The entrance of your words gives light. It gives understanding to the simple. 
I opened my mouth wide and panted, for I longed for your mitzvot ·instructions·. 
Turn to me, and be merciful towards me, as you always do mishpat ·justice· to those who 'ahav ·affectionately love· your name. 
Establish my footsteps in your word. Don’t let any iniquity have dominion over me. 
Redeem me from the oppression of man, so I will observe your precepts. 
Make your face shine on your servant. Teach me your statutes. 
Streams of tears run down my eyes, because they don’t observe your Torah ·Teaching·. TZADI 
You are righteous, Adonai . Your judgments are upright. 
Your testimonies you have enjoined are in righteousness. They are fully trustworthy. 
My zeal wears me out, because my enemies ignore your words. 
Your promises have been thoroughly tested, and your servant 'ahav ·affectionately loves· them. 
I am small and despised. I don’t forget your precepts. 
Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness. Your Torah ·Teaching· is truth. 
Trouble and anguish have taken hold of me. Your mitzvot ·instructions· are my delight. 
Your testimonies are righteous forever. Give me understanding, that I may live. KOF or KUF 
Wholeheartedly I am calling on you; Answer me, Adonai ! I will keep your statutes. 
I have called to you. Save me! I will obey your testimonies. 
I rise before dawn and cry for help. I put my hope in your words. 
My eyes stay open through the night watches, that I might meditate on your word. 
Sh'ma ·Hear obey· my voice according to your cheshed ·loving-kindness·. Revive me, Adonai , according to your judgments. 
They draw near who follow after wickedness. They are far from your Torah ·Teaching·. 
You are near, Adonai . All your mitzvot ·instructions· are truth. 
Of old I have known from your testimonies, that you have founded them forever. RESH 
Consider my affliction, and deliver me, for I don’t forget your Torah ·Teaching·. 
Plead my cause, and redeem me! Revive me according to your promise. 
Yishu'ah ·Salvation· is far from the wicked, for they don’t seek your statutes. 
Great is your tender racham ·merciful love· to me, Adonai . Revive me according to your judgments. 
Many are my persecutors and my adversaries. I haven’t deviated from your testimonies. 
I look at the faithless with loathing, because they don’t observe your word. 
Consider how I 'ahav ·affectionately love· your precepts. Revive me, Adonai , according to your cheshed ·loving-kindness·. 
All of your words are truth. Every one of your righteous judgments endures forever. SIN and SHIN 
Princes have persecuted me without a cause, but my heart stands in awe of your words. 
I rejoice at your word, as one who finds great plunder. 
I hate and abhor falsehood. I 'ahav ·affectionately love· your Torah ·Teaching·. 
Seven times a day, I praise you, because of your righteous judgments. 
Those who 'ahav ·affectionately love· your Torah ·Teaching· have great peace. Nothing causes them to stumble. 
I have hoped for your yishu'ah ·salvation·, Adonai . I obey your mitzvot ·instructions·. 
My soul has observed your testimonies. I 'ahav ·affectionately love· them exceedingly. 
I have obeyed your precepts and your testimonies, for all my ways are before you. TAV 
Let my cry come before you, Adonai . Give me understanding according to your word. 
Let my supplication come before you. Deliver me according to your word. 
Let my lips utter tehilah ·praise song·, for you teach me your statutes. 
Let my tongue sing of your word, for all your mitzvot ·instructions· are righteousness. 
Let your hand be ready to help me, for I have chosen your precepts. 
I have longed for your yishu'ah ·salvation·, Adonai . Your Torah ·Teaching· is my delight. 
Let my soul live, that I may praise you. Let your judgments help me. 
I have gone astray like a lost sheep. Seek your servant, for I don’t forget your mitzvot ·instructions·. 
