Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 9.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out in the wilderness of Sinai Thorn, in the first month of the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, saying, 
“Moreover let the children of Israel God prevails keep the Pesac ·Passover· in its appointed season. 
On the fourteenth day of this month, at evening, you shall keep it in its appointed season— according to all its statutes, and according to all its judgments, you shall keep it.” 
Moses Drawn out spoke to the children of Israel God prevails, that they should keep the Pesac ·Passover·. 
They kept the Pesac ·Passover· in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at evening, in the wilderness of Sinai Thorn. According to all that Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out, so the children of Israel God prevails did. 
There were certain men, who were unclean because of the dead body of a man, so that they could not keep the Pesac ·Passover· on that day, and they came before Moses Drawn out and before Aaron Light-bringer on that day. 
Those men said to him, “We are unclean because of the dead body of a man. Why are we kept back, that we may not offer the offering of Adonai in its appointed season among the children of Israel God prevails?” 
Moses Drawn out answered them, “Wait, that I may sh'ma ·hear obey· what Adonai will enjoin concerning you.” 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Say to the children of Israel God prevails, ‘If any man of you or of your generations is unclean by reason of a dead body, or is on a journey far away, he shall still keep the Pesac ·Passover· to Adonai . 
In the second month, on the fourteenth day at evening they shall keep it; they shall eat it with matzah ·unleavened bread· and bitter herbs. 
They shall leave none of it until the morning, nor break a bone of it. According to all the statute of the Pesac ·Passover· they shall keep it. 
But the man who is clean, and is not on a journey, and fails to keep the Pesac ·Passover·, that soul shall be cut off from his people. Because he didn’t offer the offering of Adonai in its appointed season, that man shall bear his sin. 
“‘If a foreigner lives among you, and desires to keep the Pesac ·Passover· to Adonai ; according to the statute of the Passover, and according to its ordinance, so shall he do. You shall have one statute, both for the foreigner, and for him who is born in the land.’” (4) 
On the day that the tabernacle was raised up, the cloud covered the tabernacle, even the Tent of the Testimony: and at evening it was over the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, until morning. 
So it was continually. The cloud covered it, and the appearance of fire by night. 
Whenever the cloud was taken up from over the Tent, then after that the children of Israel God prevails traveled; and in the place where the cloud remained, there the children of Israel God prevails encamped. 
At the order of Adonai , the children of Israel God prevails traveled, and at the order of Adonai they encamped. As long as the cloud remained on the tabernacle they remained encamped. 
When the cloud stayed on the tabernacle many days, then the children of Israel God prevails kept Adonai ’s charge, and didn’t travel. 
Sometimes the cloud was a few days on the tabernacle; then according to the order of Adonai they remained encamped, and according to the order of Adonai they traveled. 
Sometimes the cloud was from evening until morning; and when the cloud was taken up in the morning, they traveled: or by day and by night, when the cloud was taken up, they traveled. 
Whether it was two days, or a month, or a year that the cloud stayed on the tabernacle, remaining on it, the children of Israel God prevails remained encamped, and didn’t travel; but when it was taken up, they traveled. 
At the order of Adonai they encamped, and at the order of Adonai they traveled. They did what Adonai charged them to do through Moses Drawn out. 
