Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 30.
When Rachel Ewe sheep saw that she bore Jacob Supplanter no children, Rachel Ewe sheep envied her sister. She said to Jacob Supplanter, “Give me children, or else I will die.” 
Jacob Supplanter’s anger burned against Rachel Ewe sheep, and he said, “Am I in God’s place, who has withheld from you the fruit of the womb?” 
She said, “Behold, my maid Bilhah Bashful. Go in to her, that she may bear on my knees, and I also may obtain children by her.” 
She gave him Bilhah Bashful her servant as wife, and Jacob Supplanter went in to her. 
Bilhah Bashful conceived, and bore Jacob Supplanter a son. 
Rachel Ewe sheep said, “God has judged me, and has also sh'ma ·heard obeyed· my voice, and has given me a son.” Therefore called she his name Dan He judged. 
Bilhah Bashful, Rachel Ewe sheep’s servant, conceived again, and bore Jacob Supplanter a second son. 
Rachel Ewe sheep said, “With mighty wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister, and have prevailed.” She named him Naphtali My wrestling. 
When Leah Weary saw that she had finished bearing, she took Zilpah Frailty, her servant, and gave her to Jacob Supplanter as a wife. 
Zilpah Frailty, Leah Weary’s servant, bore Jacob Supplanter a son. 
Leah Weary said, “How fortunate!” She named him Gad Good fortune. 
Zilpah Frailty, Leah Weary’s servant, bore Jacob Supplanter a second son. 
Leah Weary said, “Happy am I, for the daughters will call me happy.” She named him Asher Happy. (4) 
Reuben See, a son! went in the days of wheat harvest, and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them to his mother, Leah Weary. Then Rachel Ewe sheep said to Leah Weary, “Please give me some of your son’s mandrakes.” 
She said to her, “Is it a small matter that you have taken away my husband? Would you take away my son’s mandrakes, also?” Rachel Ewe sheep said, “Therefore he will lie with you tonight for your son’s mandrakes.” 
Jacob Supplanter came from the field in the evening, and Leah Weary went out to meet him, and said, “You must come in to me; for I have surely hired you with my son’s mandrakes.” He lay with her that night. 
God sh'ma ·heard obeyed· to Leah Weary, and she conceived, and bore Jacob Supplanter a fifth son. 
Leah Weary said, “God has given me my hire, because I gave my servant to my husband.” She named him Issachar Hire, Reward. 
Leah Weary conceived again, and bore a sixth son to Jacob Supplanter. 
Leah Weary said, “God has endowed me with a good dowry. Now my husband will live with me, because I have borne him six sons.” She named him Zebulun Living together. 
Afterwards, she bore a daughter, and named her Dinah. 
God remembered Rachel Ewe sheep, and God sh'ma ·heard obeyed· to her, and opened her womb. 
She conceived, bore a son, and said, “God has taken away my reproach.” 
She named him Joseph May he add, saying, “May Adonai add another son to me.” 
When Rachel Ewe sheep had borne Joseph May he add, Jacob Supplanter said to Laban White, “Send me away, that I may go to my own place, and to my country. 
Give me my wives and my children for whom I have served you, and let me go; for you know my service with which I have served you.” 
Laban White said to him, “If now I have found chen ·grace· in your eyes, stay here, for I have divined that Adonai has blessed me for your sake.” (5) 
He said, “Appoint me your wages, and I will give it.” 
He said to him, “You know how I have served you, and how your livestock have fared with me. 
For it was little which you had before I came, and it has increased to a multitude. Adonai has blessed you wherever I turned. Now when will I provide for my own house also?” 
He said, “What shall I give you?” Jacob Supplanter said, “You shall not give me anything. If you will do this thing for me, I will again feed your flock and keep it. 
I will pass through all your flock today, removing from there every speckled and spotted one, and every black one among the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats. This will be my hire. 
So my righteousness will answer for me hereafter, when you come concerning my hire that is before you. Every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats, and black among the sheep, that might be with me, will be considered stolen.” 
Laban White said, “Behold, let it be according to your word.” 
That day, he removed the male goats that were streaked and spotted, and all the female goats that were speckled and spotted, every one that had white in it, and all the black ones among the sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons. 
He set three days’ journey between himself and Jacob Supplanter, and Jacob Supplanter fed the rest of Laban White’s flocks. 
Jacob Supplanter took to himself rods of fresh poplar, almond, plane tree, peeled white streaks in them, and made the white appear which was in the rods. 
He set the rods which he had peeled opposite the flocks in the gutters in the watering-troughs where the flocks came to drink. They conceived when they came to drink. 
The flocks conceived before the rods, and the flocks produced streaked, speckled, and spotted. 
Jacob Supplanter separated the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the streaked and all the black in the flock of Laban White: and he put his own droves apart, and didn’t put them into Laban White’s flock. 
Whenever the stronger of the flock conceived, Jacob Supplanter laid the rods in front of the eyes of the flock in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods; 
but when the flock were feeble, he didn’t put them in. So the more feeble were Laban White’s, and the stronger Jacob Supplanter’s. 
The man increased exceedingly, and had large flocks, female servants and male servants, and camels and donkeys. 
