Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 11.
The people were complaining in the ears of Adonai . When Adonai sh'ma ·heard obeyed· it, his anger burned; and Adonai ’s fire burned among them, and consumed some of the outskirts of the camp. 
The people cried to Moses Drawn out; and Moses Drawn out prayed to Adonai , and the fire abated. 
The name of that place was called Taberah, because Adonai ’s fire burned among them. 
The mixed multitude that was among them lusted exceedingly: and the children of Israel God prevails also wept again, and said, “Who will give us meat to eat? 
We remember the fish, which we ate in Egypt Abode of slavery for nothing; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic; 
but now we have lost our appetite. There is nothing at all except this manna ·what is it· to look at.” 
The manna ·what is it· was like coriander seed, and its appearance like the appearance of bdellium. 
The people went around, gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in mortars, and boiled it in pots, and made cakes of it. Its taste was like the taste of fresh oil. 
When the dew fell on the camp in the night, the manna ·what is it· fell on it. 
Moses Drawn out sh'ma ·heard obeyed· the people weeping throughout their families, every man at the door of his tent; and Adonai ’s anger burned greatly; and Moses Drawn out was displeased. 
Moses Drawn out said to Adonai , “Why have you treated with your servant so badly? Why haven’t I found chen ·grace· in your sight, that you lay the burden of all this people on me? 
Have I conceived all this people? Have I brought them out, that you should tell me, ‘Carry them in your bosom, as a nurse carries a nursing infant, to the land which you swore to their fathers?’ 
Where could I get meat to give to all this people? For they weep to me, saying, ‘Give us meat, that we may eat.’ 
I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me. 
If you treat me this way, please kill me right now, if I have found chen ·grace· in your sight; and don’t let me see my wretchedness.” 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Gather to me seventy men of the elders of Israel God prevails, whom you know to be the elders of the people, and officers over them; and bring them to the Tent of Meeting, that they may stand there with you. 
I will come down and talk with you there. I will take of the Spirit which is on you, and will put it on them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with you, that you not bear it yourself alone. 
“Say to the people, ‘Sanctify yourselves in preparation for tomorrow, and you will eat meat; for you have wept in the ears of Adonai , saying, “Who will give us meat to eat? For it was well with us in Egypt Abode of slavery.” Therefore Adonai will give you meat, and you will eat. 
You will not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days, 
but a whole month, until it comes out at your nostrils, and it is loathsome to you; because you have rejected Adonai who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, “Why did we come out of Egypt Abode of slavery?”’” 
Moses Drawn out said, “The people, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand men on foot; and you have said, ‘I will give them meat, that they may eat a whole month.’ 
Shall flocks and herds be slaughtered for them, to be sufficient for them? Shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to be sufficient for them?” 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Has Adonai ’s hand grown short? Now you will see whether my word will happen to you or not.” 
Moses Drawn out went out, and told the people Adonai ’s words; and he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them around the Tent. 
Adonai came down in the cloud, and spoke to him, and took of the Spirit that was on him, and put it on the seventy elders. When the Spirit rested on them, they prophesied, but they did so no more. 
But two men remained in the camp. The name of one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the Spirit rested on them; and they were of those who were written, but had not gone out to the Tent; and they prophesied in the camp. 
A young man ran, and told Moses Drawn out, and said, “Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp!” 
Joshua Salvation Yah the son of Nun, the servant of Moses Drawn out, one of his chosen men, answered, “My lord Moses Drawn out, forbid them!” 
Moses Drawn out said to him, “Are you jealous for my sake? I wish that all Adonai ’s people were prophets, that Adonai would put his Spirit on them!” (7) 
Moses Drawn out went into the camp, he and the elders of Israel God prevails. 
A wind from Adonai went out and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, about a day’s journey approximately 20 mi; 32.19 km on this side, and a day’s journey approximately 20 mi; 32.19 kmon the other side, around the camp, and about two cubits 36 in; 91.44 cm above the surface of the earth. 
The people rose up all that day, and all of that night, and all the next day, and gathered the quails. He who gathered least gathered ten homers; and they spread them all out for themselves around the camp. 
While the meat was still between their teeth, before it was chewed, Adonai ’s anger burned against the people, and Adonai struck the people with a very great plague. 
The name of that place was called Kibroth Hattaavah, because there they buried the people who lusted. 
From Kibroth Hattaavah the people traveled to Hazeroth; and they stayed at Hazeroth. 
