The Good News Recorded by John / Yochanan [Yah is gracious].
Chapter 1.
B'resheet ·In the beginning of the beginning· was ha D'var ·the Word·, and ha D'var ·the Word· was with God, and ha D'var ·the Word· was God. 
The same was in the beginning with God. 
All things came to be through him and without him nothing made had being. 
In him was life, and the life was the light of men. 
The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. 
There came a man, sent from God, whose name was John Yah is gracious. 
The same came as a witness, that he might testify about the light, that all might believe through him. 
He was not the light, but was sent that he might testify about the light. 
The true light that enlightens everyone was coming into the world. 
He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world didn’t recognize him. 
He came to his own, and those who were his own didn’t receive him. 
But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become God’s children, to those who believe in his name: 
who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. 
Ha D'var ·The Word· became flesh, and tabernacled among us. We saw his shekhinah ·manifest weighty glory and presence of God·, such shekhinah ·manifest weighty glory and presence of God· as of the one and only Son of the Abba ·Father·, full of grace and truth. 
John Yah is gracious testified about him. He cried out, saying, “This was he of whom I said, ‘He who comes after me has surpassed me, for he was before me.’” 
From his fullness we all received grace upon grace. 
For the Torah ·Teaching· was given through Moses Drawn out; grace and truth came through Yeshua Messiah Salvation Anointed one. 
No one has seen God at any time. The one and only Son, who is in the bosom of Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad·, he has declared him. 
This is John Yah is gracious’s testimony, when the Jews sent priests and Levites Descendants of United with from Jerusalem City of peace to ask him, “Who are you?” 
He declared, and didn’t deny, but he declared, “I am not the Messiah Anointed one.” 
They asked him, “What then? Are you Elijah My God Yah?” He said, “I am not.” “Are you the prophet?” He answered, “No.” 
They said therefore to him, “Who are you? Give us an answer to take back to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?” 
He said, “I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘Make straight the way of MarYah Master Yahweh,’ as Isaiah Salvation of Yah the prophet said.” 
The ones who had been sent were from the Pharisees Separated. 
They asked him, “Why then do you baptize, if you are not the Messiah Anointed one, nor Elijah My God Yah, nor the prophet?” 
John Yah is gracious answered them, “I baptize in water, but among you stands one whom you don’t know. 
He is the one who comes after me, who is preferred before me, whose sandal strap I’m not worthy to loosen.” 
These things were done in Bethany House of affliction beyond the Jordan Descender, where John Yah is gracious was baptizing. 
The next day, he saw Yeshua Salvation coming to him, and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! 
This is he of whom I said, ‘After me comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me.’ 
I didn’t know him, but for this reason I came baptizing in water: that he would be revealed to Israel God prevails.” 
John Yah is gracious testified, saying, “I have seen haRuach the Spirit descending like a dove out of heaven, and it remained on him. 
I didn’t recognize him, but he who sent me to baptize in water, he said to me, ‘On whomever you will see haRuach the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he who baptizes in Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness.’ 
I have seen, and have testified that this is the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·.” 
Again, the next day, John Yah is gracious was standing with two of his disciples, 
and he looked at Yeshua Salvation as he walked, and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God!” 
The two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Yeshua Salvation. 
Yeshua Salvation turned, and saw them following, and said to them, “What are you looking for?” They said to him, “Rabbi ·Teacher·” (which is to say, being interpreted, Teacher), “where are you staying?” 
He said to them, “Come, and see.” They came and saw where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day. It was about four o'clock in the afternoon. 
One of the two who heard John Yah is gracious, and followed him, was Andrew Manly, Simeon Peter Hearing Rock’s brother. 
He first found his own brother, Simeon Hearing, and said to him, “We have found the Messiah Anointed one!” (which is, being interpreted, Moshiach ·Anointed one·). 
He brought him to Yeshua Salvation. Yeshua Salvation looked at him, and said, “You are Simeon Hearing the son of Jonah Dove. You shall be called Cephas” (which is by interpretation, Peter Rock). 
On the next day, he was determined to go out into Galilee District, Circuit, and he found Philip Loves horses. Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Follow me.” 
Now Philip Loves horses was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew Manly and Peter Rock. 
Philip Loves horses found Nathanael Given by God, and said to him, “We have found the one that Moses Drawn out wrote about in the Torah ·Teaching·, and the Prophets— it is Yeshua Salvation son of Joseph May he add from Nazareth Branch, Separated one.” 
Nathanael Given by God said to him, “Can any good thing come out of Nazareth Branch, Separated one?” Philip Loves horses said to him, “Come and see.” 
Yeshua Salvation saw Nathanael Given by God coming to him, and said about him, “Behold, an Israelite Descendant of God prevails indeed, in whom is no deceit!” 
Nathanael Given by God said to him, “How do you know me?” Yeshua Salvation answered him, “Before Philip Loves horses called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.” 
Nathanael Given by God answered him, “ Rabbi ·Teacher·, you are the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·! You are Melek Isra'el King of God prevails!” 
Yeshua Salvation answered him, “Because I told you, ‘I saw you underneath the fig tree,’ do you believe? You will see greater things than these!” 
He said to him, “Most certainly, I tell you, hereafter you will see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.” 
