Luke [White-light].
Chapter 2.
Now in those days, a decree went out from Caesar Ruler Augustus Revered, Esteemed, Venerable that all the world should be enrolled. 
This was the first enrollment made when Quirinius was governor of Syria Elevated. 
All went to enroll themselves, everyone to his own city. 
Joseph May he add also went up from Galilee District, Circuit, out of the city of Nazareth Branch, Separated one, into Judea Praise, to David Beloved’s city, which is called Bethlehem House of Bread, because he was of the house and family of David Beloved; 
to enroll himself with Mary Rebellion, who was pledged to be married to him as wife, being pregnant. 
While they were there, the day had come for her to give birth. 
She gave birth to her firstborn son. She wrapped him in bands of cloth, and laid him in a feeding trough, because there was no room for them in the inn. 
There were shepherds in the same country staying in the field, and keeping watch by night over their flock. 
Behold, an angel of Adonai stood by them, and the shekhinah ·manifest weighty glory and presence of God· shone around them, and they were terrified. 
The angel said to them, “Don’t be afraid, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy which will be to all the people. 
For there is born to you today, in David Beloved’s city, a Savior, who is Messiah Anointed one the MarYah Master Yahweh. 
This is the sign to you: you will find a baby wrapped in strips of cloth, lying in a feeding trough.” 
Suddenly, there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army praising God, and saying, 
“Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, good will toward men.” 
When the angels went away from them into the sky, the shepherds said to one another, “Let’s go to Bethlehem House of Bread, now, and see this thing that has happened, which MarYah Master Yahweh has made known to us.” 
They came with haste, and found both Mary Rebellion and Joseph May he add, and the baby was lying in the feeding trough. 
When they saw it, they publicized widely the saying which was spoken to them about this child. 
All who heard it wondered at the things which were spoken to them by the shepherds. 
But Mary Rebellion kept all these sayings, pondering them in her heart. 
The shepherds teshuvah ·completely returned·, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, just as it was told them. 
When eight days were fulfilled for the circumcision of the child, his name was called Yeshua Salvation, which was given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. 
When the time came for their purification according to the Torah ·Teaching· of Moses Drawn out were fulfilled, they brought him up to Jerusalem City of peace, to present him to MarYah Master Yahweh 
(as it is written in the Torah ·Teaching· of MarYah Master Yahweh, “Every firstborn male shall be consecrated holy to MarYah Master Yahweh”), 
and to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the Torah ·Teaching· of MarYah Master Yahweh, “A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.” 
Behold, there was a man in Jerusalem City of peace whose name was Simeon Hearing. This man was upright and devout, looking for the consolation of Israel God prevails, and Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness was on him. 
It had been revealed to him by Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness that he should not see death before he had seen Adonai ’s Messiah Anointed one. 
Prompted by haRuach the Spirit, he went into the temple courts; and when the parents brought in the child Yeshua Salvation to do for him what the Torah ·Teaching· required, 
then he received him into his arms, and blessed God, and said, 
“Now you are releasing your servant, Master, according to your word, in peace; 
for my eyes have seen your method of salvation, 
which you have prepared before the face of all peoples; 
a light for revelation to the nations, and the glory of your people Israel God prevails.” 
Joseph May he add and his mother were marveling at the things which were spoken concerning him, 
and Simeon Hearing blessed them, and said to Mary Rebellion, his mother, “Behold, this child is set for the falling and the rising of many in Israel God prevails, and for a sign which is spoken against. 
Yes, a sword will pierce through your own soul, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.” 
There was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher Happy (she was of a great age, having lived with a husband seven years from her virginity, 
and she had been a widow for about eighty-four years), who didn’t depart from the temple, worshiping with fastings and petitions night and day. 
Coming up at that very hour, she gave thanks to Yahweh, and spoke of him to all those who were looking for redemption in Jerusalem City of peace. 
When they had accomplished everything required by the Torah ·Teaching· of MarYah Master Yahweh, they returned into Galilee District, Circuit, to their town of Nazareth Branch, Separated one. 
The child was growing, and was becoming strong in spirit, being filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. 
His parents went every year to Jerusalem City of peace at the festival of the Pesac ·Passover·. 
When he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem City of peace according to the custom of the feast, 
and when they had fulfilled the days, as they were making teshuvah ·complete return·, the boy Yeshua Salvation stayed behind in Jerusalem City of peace. Joseph May he add and his mother didn’t know it, 
but supposing him to be in the company, they went a day’s journey, and they looked for him among their relatives and acquaintances. 
When they didn’t find him, they make teshuvah ·complete return· to Jerusalem City of peace, looking for him. 
After three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the middle of the teachers, both listening to them, and asking them questions. 
All who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers. 
When they saw him, they were astonished, and his mother said to him, “Son, why have you treated us this way? Behold, your 'Avikah ·your Father· and I were anxiously looking for you.” 
He said to them, “Why were you looking for me? Didn’t you know that I must be in 'Avi ·my Father·’s house?” 
They didn’t understand the saying which he spoke to them. 
And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth Branch, Separated one. He was subject to them, and his mother kept all these sayings in her heart. 
And Yeshua Salvation increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men. 
