The Second Book of Torah, Exodus [Departure] / Sh'mot [Names].
Chapter 1.
Now these are the names of the sons of Israel God prevails, who came into Egypt Abode of slavery (every man and his household came with Jacob Supplanter): 
Reuben See, a son!, Simeon Hearing, Levi United with, and Judah Praised, 
Issachar Hire, Reward, Zebulun Living together, and Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south, 
Dan He judged and Naphtali My wrestling, Gad Good fortune and Asher Happy. 
All the souls who came out of Jacob Supplanter’s body were seventy souls, and Joseph May he add was in Egypt Abode of slavery already. 
Joseph May he add died, as did all his brothers, and all that generation. 
The children of Israel God prevails were fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and grew exceedingly mighty; and the land was filled with them. 
Now there arose a new king over Egypt Abode of slavery, who didn’t know Joseph May he add. 
He said to his people, “Behold, the people of the children of Israel God prevails are more and mightier than we. 
Come, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply, and it happen that when any war breaks out, they also join themselves to our enemies, and fight against us, and escape out of the land.” 
Therefore they set taskmasters over them to afflict them with their burdens. They built storage cities for Pharaoh: Pithom and Raamses. 
But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and the more they spread out. They were grieved because of the children of Israel God prevails. 
The Egyptians people from Abode of slavery ruthlessly made the children of Israel God prevails serve, 
and they made their lives bitter with hard service, in mortar and in brick, and in all kinds of service in the field, all their service, in which they ruthlessly made them serve. 
The king of Egypt Abode of slavery spoke to the Hebrew Immigrant midwives, of whom the name of the one was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah, 
and he said, “When you perform the duty of a midwife to the Hebrew Immigrant women, and see them on the birth stool; if it is a son, then you shall kill him; but if it is a daughter, then she shall live.” 
But the midwives feared God, and didn’t do what the king of Egypt Abode of slavery ordered them, but saved the baby boys alive. (2) 
The king of Egypt Abode of slavery called for the midwives, and said to them, “Why have you done this thing, and have saved the boys alive?” 
The midwives said to Pharaoh, “Because the Hebrew Immigrant women are not like the Egyptian person from Abode of slavery women; for they are vigorous, and give birth before the midwife comes to them.” 
God dealt well with the midwives, and the people multiplied, and grew very mighty. 
Because the midwives feared God, he gave them families. 
Pharaoh enjoined all his people, saying, “You shall cast every son who is born into the river, and every daughter you shall save alive.” 
