Leviticus / Vayikra.
Chapter 8.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Take Aaron Light-bringer and his sons with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil, and the bull of the sin offering, and the two rams, and the basket of matzah ·unleavened bread·; 
and assemble all the congregation at the door of the Tent of Meeting.” 
Moses Drawn out did as Adonai enjoined him; and the congregation was assembled at the door of the Tent of Meeting. 
Moses Drawn out said to the congregation, “This is the thing which Adonai has enjoined to be done.” 
Moses Drawn out brought Aaron Light-bringer and his sons, and washed them with water. 
He put the coat on him, tied the sash on him, clothed him with the robe, put the ephod on him, and he tied the skillfully woven band of the ephod on him, and fastened it to him with it. 
He placed the breastplate on him; and in the breastplate he put the 'Urim ·Lights· and the Thummim ·Perfections·. 
He set the turban on his head; and on the turban, in front, he set the golden plate, the holy crown; as Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out. 
Moses Drawn out took the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it, and sanctified them. 
He sprinkled it on the altar seven times, and anointed the altar and all its utensils, and the basin and its base, to sanctify them. 
He poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron Light-bringer’s head, and anointed him, to sanctify him. 
Moses Drawn out brought Aaron Light-bringer’s sons, and clothed them with coats, and tied sashes on them, and put headbands on them; as Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out. (5) 
He brought the bull of the sin offering, and Aaron Light-bringer and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering. 
He killed it; and Moses Drawn out took the blood, and put it around on the horns of the altar with his finger, and purified the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar, and sanctified it, to make atonement for it. 
He took all the fat that was on the innards, and the cover of the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat; and Moses Drawn out burned it on the altar. 
But the bull, and its skin, and its meat, and its dung, he burned with fire outside the camp; as Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out. 
He presented the ram of the burnt offering: and Aaron Light-bringer and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram. 
He killed it; and Moses Drawn out sprinkled the blood around on the altar. 
He cut the ram into its pieces; and Moses Drawn out burned the head, and the pieces, and the fat. 
He washed the innards and the legs with water; and Moses Drawn out burned the whole ram on the altar. It was a burnt offering for a pleasant aroma. It was an offering made by fire to Adonai ; as Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out. (6) 
He presented the other ram, the ram of consecration: and Aaron Light-bringer and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram. 
He killed it; and Moses Drawn out took some of its blood, and put it on the tip of Aaron Light-bringer’s right ear, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot. 
He brought Aaron Light-bringer’s sons; and Moses Drawn out put some of the blood on the tip of their right ear, and on the thumb of their right hand, and on the great toe of their right foot; and Moses Drawn out sprinkled the blood around on the altar. 
He took the fat, and the fat tail, and all the fat that was on the innards, and the cover of the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and the right thigh; 
and out of the basket of matzah ·unleavened bread·, that was before Adonai , he took one unleavened cake, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and placed them on the fat, and on the right thigh. 
He put all these in Aaron Light-bringer’s hands and in his sons’ hands, and waved them for a wave offering before Adonai . 
Moses Drawn out took them from their hands, and burned them on the altar on the burnt offering. They were a consecration for a pleasant aroma. It was an offering made by fire to Adonai . 
Moses Drawn out took the breast, and waved it for a wave offering before Adonai . It was Moses Drawn out’ portion of the ram of consecration, as Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out. (7) 
Moses Drawn out took some of the anointing oil, and some of the blood which was on the altar, and sprinkled it on Aaron Light-bringer, on his garments, and on his sons, and on his sons’ garments with him, and sanctified Aaron Light-bringer, his garments, and his sons, and his sons’ garments with him. 
Moses Drawn out said to Aaron Light-bringer and to his sons, “Boil the meat at the door of the Tent of Meeting, and there eat it and the bread that is in the basket of consecration, as I enjoined, saying, ‘Aaron Light-bringer and his sons shall eat it.’ 
What remains of the meat and of the bread you shall burn with fire. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
You shall not go out from the door of the Tent of Meeting seven days, until the days of your consecration are fulfilled: for he shall consecrate you seven days. 
What has been done today, so Adonai has enjoined to do, to make atonement for you. 
You shall stay at the door of the Tent of Meeting day and night seven days, and thereby obeying what Adonai has ordered done, so that you may not die. For this is what I am enjoined.” 
Aaron Light-bringer and his sons did all the things which Adonai enjoined by Moses Drawn out. 
