Psalms [Praises].
Chapter 103.
Praise Adonai , my soul! All that is within me, praise his holy name! 
Praise Adonai , my soul, and don’t forget all his benefits; 
who forgives all your sins; who heals all your diseases; 
who redeems your life from destruction; who crowns you with cheshed ·loving-kindness· and tender racham ·merciful love·; 
who satisfies your desire with good things, so that your youth is renewed like the eagle’s. 
Adonai executes righteous acts, and mishpat ·justice· for all who are oppressed. 
He made known his ways to Moses Drawn out, his deeds to the children of Israel God prevails. 
Adonai is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abundant in cheshed ·loving-kindness·. 
He will not always accuse; neither will he stay angry forever. 
He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor repaid us for our iniquities. 
For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his cheshed ·loving-kindness· toward those who fear him. 
As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. 
Like a father has racham ·compassionate merciful love· on his children, so Adonai has racham ·compassionate merciful love· on those who fear him. 
For he knows how we are made. He remembers that we are dust. 
As for man, his days are like grass. As a flower of the field, so he flourishes. 
For the wind passes over it, and it is gone. Its place remembers it no more. 
But Adonai ’s cheshed ·loving-kindness· is from everlasting to everlasting with those who fear him, his righteousness to children’s children; 
to those who keep his covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties·, to those who remember to obey his precepts. 
Adonai has established his throne in the heavens. His kingdom rules over all. 
Praise Adonai , you angels of his, who are mighty in strength, who fulfill his word, Sh'ma ·hearing obeying· the voice of his word. 
Praise Adonai , all you armies of his, you servants of his, who do his pleasure. 
Praise Adonai , all you works of his, in all places of his dominion. Praise Adonai , my soul! 
