Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 19.
The burden of Egypt Abode of slavery: “Behold, Adonai rides on a swift cloud, and comes to Egypt Abode of slavery. The idols of Egypt Abode of slavery will tremble at his presence; and the heart of Egypt Abode of slavery will melt within it. 
I will stir up the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery against the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery, and they will fight everyone against his brother, and everyone against his neighbor; city against city, and kingdom against kingdom. 
The spirit of Egypt Abode of slavery will fail within it. I will destroy its counsel. They will seek the idols, the charmers, those who have familiar spirits, and the wizards. 
I will give over the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery into the hand of a cruel lord. A fierce king will rule over them,” says the Lord, Adonai Tzva'ot Yahweh Commander of heaven’s armies. 
The waters will fail from the sea, and the river will be wasted and become dry. 
The rivers will become foul. The streams of Egypt Abode of slavery will be diminished and dried up. The reeds and flags will wither away. 
The meadows by the Nile, by the brink of the Nile, and all the sown fields of the Nile, will become dry, be driven away, and be no more. 
The fishermen will lament, and all those who fish in the Nile will mourn, and those who spread nets on the waters will languish. 
Moreover those who work in combed flax, and those who weave white cloth, will be confounded. 
The pillars will be broken in pieces. All those who work for hire will be grieved in soul. 
The princes of Zoan are utterly foolish. The counsel of the wisest counselors of Pharaoh has become stupid. How do you say to Pharaoh, “I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings?” 
Where then are your wise men? Let them tell you now; and let them know what Adonai Tzva'ot Yahweh Commander of heaven’s armies has purposed concerning Egypt Abode of slavery. 
The princes of Zoan have become fools. The princes of Memphis are deceived. They have caused Egypt Abode of slavery to go astray, who are the cornerstone of her tribes. 
Adonai has mixed a spirit of perverseness in the middle of her; and they have caused Egypt Abode of slavery to go astray in all of its works, like a drunken man staggers in his vomit. 
Neither shall there be any work for Egypt Abode of slavery, which head or tail, palm branch or rush, may do. 
In that day the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery will be like women. They will tremble and fear because of the shaking of Adonai Tzva'ot Yahweh Commander of heaven’s armies’s hand, which he shakes over them. 
The land of Judah Praised will become a terror to Egypt Abode of slavery. Everyone to whom mention is made of it will be afraid, because of the plans of Adonai Tzva'ot Yahweh Commander of heaven’s armies, which he determines against it. 
In that day, there will be five cities in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery that speak the language of Canaan Humbled, and swear to Adonai Tzva'ot Yahweh Commander of heaven’s armies. One will be called “The city of destruction.” 
In that day, there will be an altar to Adonai in the middle of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, and a pillar to Adonai at its border. 
It will be for a sign and for a witness to Adonai Tzva'ot Yahweh Commander of heaven’s armies in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery; for they will cry to Adonai because of oppressors, and he will send them one to save and a defend them, and he will deliver them. 
Adonai will be known to Egypt Abode of slavery, and the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery will know Adonai in that day. Yes, they will worship with sacrifice and offering, and will vow a vow to Adonai , and will perform it. 
Adonai will strike Egypt Abode of slavery, striking and healing. They will make teshuvah ·complete return· to Adonai , and he will be entreated by them, and will heal them. 
In that day there will be a highway out of Egypt Abode of slavery to Assyria Level plain, and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt Abode of slavery, and the Egyptian person from Abode of slavery into Assyria Level plain; and the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery will worship with the Assyrians. 
In that day, Israel God prevails will be the third with Egypt Abode of slavery and with Assyria Level plain, a blessing within the earth; 
because Adonai Tzva'ot Yahweh Commander of heaven’s armies has blessed them, saying, “Blessed be Egypt Abode of slavery my people, Assyria Level plain the work of my hands, and Israel God prevails my inheritance.” 
