Mark [Hammer].
Chapter 14.
It was now two days before the festival of the Pesac ·Passover· (Nissan 12), also called the festival of Matzah ·Unleavened bread·, and the chief priests and the Torah-Teachers sought how they might seize him by deception, and kill him. 
For they said, “Not during the feast, because there might be a riot of the people.” 
While he was at Bethany House of affliction, in the house of Simeon Hearing the leper, as he sat at the table, a woman came having an alabaster jar of ointment of pure nard— very costly. She broke the jar, and poured it over his head. 
But there were some who were indignant among themselves, saying, “Why has this ointment been wasted? 
For this might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii (300 days wages), and given to the poor.” They grumbled against her. 
But Yeshua Salvation said, “Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a good work for me. 
For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want to, you can do them good; but you will not always have me. 
She has done what she could. She has anointed my body beforehand for the burying. 
Most certainly I tell you, wherever this Good News may be preached throughout the whole world, that which this woman has done will also be spoken of for a memorial of her.” 
Judas Iscariot Praised Dagger-man, who was one of the twelve, went away to the chief priests, that he might deliver him to them. 
They, when they heard it, were glad, and promised to give him money. He sought how he might conveniently deliver him. 
On the first day of Matzah ·Unleavened bread· (Nissan 14), when they sacrificed the Pesac ·Passover· lamb, his disciples asked him, “Where do you want us to go and prepare your Seder ·Order / Passover meal·?” 
He sent two of his disciples, and said to them, “Go into the city, and there you will meet a man carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him, 
and wherever he enters in, tell the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says, “Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Pesac ·Passover· with my disciples?”’ 
He will himself show you a large upper room furnished and ready. Get ready for us there.” 
His disciples went out, and came into the city, and found things as he had said to them, and they prepared the Seder · Order / Passover meal·. 
When it was evening he came with the twelve. 
As they sat and were eating, Yeshua Salvation said, “Most certainly I tell you, one of you will betray me— he who eats with me.” 
They began to be sorrowful, and to ask him one by one, “Surely not I?” And another said, “Surely not I?” 
He answered them, “It is one of the twelve, he who dips matzah ·unleavened bread· with me in the dish (of bitter herbs). 
For the Son of Man goes, even as it is written about him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would be better for that man if he had not been born.” 
As they were eating, Yeshua Salvation took matzah ·unleavened bread·, and when he had blessed, he broke it, and gave to them, and said, “Take, eat. This is my body.” 
He took the (third) cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave to them. They all drank of it. 
He said to them, “This is my blood of the new covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties·, which is poured out for many. 
Most certainly I tell you, I will no more drink of the fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it anew in God’s Kingdom.” 
When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. 
Yeshua Salvation said to them, “All of you will be made to stumble because of me tonight, for it is written, ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.’ 
However, after I am raised up, I will go before you into Galilee District, Circuit.” 
But Peter Rock said to him, “Although all will be offended, yet I will not.” 
Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Most certainly I tell you, that you today, even this night, before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.” 
But he spoke all the more, “If I must die with you, I will not deny you.” They all said the same thing. 
They came to a place which was named Gethsemane Olive oil press. He said to his disciples, “Sit here, while I pray.” 
He took with him Peter Rock, James Surplanter, and John Yah is gracious, and began to be greatly troubled and distressed. 
He said to them, “My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here, and watch.” 
He went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass away from him. 
He said, “ Abba, Dear Dad, all things are possible to you. Please remove this cup from me. However, not what I desire, but what you desire.” 
He came and found them sleeping, and said to Peter Rock, “Simeon Hearing, are you sleeping? Couldn’t you watch one hour? 
Watch and pray, that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.” 
Again he went away, and prayed, saying the same words. 
Again he teshuvah ·completely returned·, and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy, and they didn’t know what to answer him. 
He came the third time, and said to them, “Sleep on now, and take your rest. It is enough. The hour has come. Behold, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. 
Arise, let us be going. Behold, he who betrays me is at hand.” 
Immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas Praised, one of the twelve, came— and with him a multitude with swords and clubs, from the chief priests, the Torah-Teachers, and the elders. 
Now he who betrayed him had given them a sign, saying, “Whomever I will phileo ·affectionate love, kiss·, he is the one. Seize him, and lead him away safely.” 
When he had come, immediately he came to him, and said, “Rabbi, Rabbi! ·Teacher, Teacher·!” and kissed him. 
They laid their hands on him, and seized him. 
But a certain one of those who stood by drew his sword, and struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear. 
Yeshua Salvation answered them, “Have you come out, as against a robber, with swords and clubs to seize me? 
I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and you didn’t arrest me. But this is so that the Scriptures might be fulfilled.” 
They all left him, and fled. 
A certain young man followed him, having a linen cloth thrown around himself, over his naked body. The young men grabbed him, 
but he left the linen cloth, and fled from them naked. 
They led Yeshua Salvation away to the high priest. All the chief priests, the elders, and the Torah-Teachers came together with him. 
Peter Rock had followed him from a distance, until he came into the court of the high priest. He was sitting with the officers, and warming himself in the light of the fire. 
Now the chief priests and the whole council sought witnesses against Yeshua Salvation to put him to death, and found none. 
For many gave false testimony against him, and their testimony didn’t agree with each other. 
Some stood up, and gave false testimony against him, saying, 
“We heard him say, ‘I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build another made without hands.’” 
Even so, their testimony did not agree. 
The high priest stood up in the middle, and asked Yeshua Salvation, “Have you no answer? What is it which these testify against you?” 
But he stayed quiet, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, “Are you the Messiah Anointed one, the Son of the Blessed?” 
Yeshua Salvation said, “ Ena Na I AM (the Living God). You will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of the sky.” 
The high priest tore his clothes, and said, “What further need have we of witnesses? 
You have heard the blasphemy! What do you think?” They all condemned him to be worthy of death. 
Some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to beat him with fists, and to tell him, “Prophesy!” The officers struck him with the palms of their hands. 
As Peter Rock was in the courtyard below, one of the maids of the high priest came, 
and seeing Peter Rock warming himself, she looked at him, and said, “You were also with the Nazarene person from Branch, Separated one, Yeshua Salvation!” 
But he denied it, saying, “I neither know, nor understand what you are saying.” He went out on the porch, and the rooster crowed. 
The maid saw him, and began again to tell those who stood by, “This is one of them.” 
But he again denied it. After a little while again those who stood by said to Peter Rock, “You truly are one of them, for you are a Galilean, and your speech shows it.” 
But he began to curse, and to swear, “I don’t know this man of whom you speak!” 
The rooster crowed the second time. Peter Rock remembered the word, how that Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.” When he thought about that, he wept. 
