Proverbs / Mishlei.
Chapter 31.
The words of king Lemuel; the revelation which his mother taught him. 
“Oh, my son! Oh, son of my womb! Oh, son of my vows! 
Don’t give your strength to women, nor your ways to that which destroys kings. 
It is not for kings, Lemuel; it is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes to say, ‘Where is strong drink?’ 
lest they drink, and forget the law, and pervert the justice due to anyone who is afflicted. 
Give strong drink to him who is ready to perish; and wine to the bitter in soul: 
Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more. 
Open your mouth for the mute, in the cause of all who are left desolate. 
Open your mouth, judge righteously, and serve justice to the poor and needy.” 
Who can find a worthy woman? For her price is far above rubies. 
Her husband trusts in her from his heart, and she will prove a great asset to him. 
She does him good, and not harm, all the days of her life. 
She seeks wool and flax, and works eagerly with her hands. 
She is like the merchant ships. She brings her bread from afar. 
She rises also while it is yet night, gives food to her household, and chokim ·portions· for her servant girls. 
She considers a field, and buys it. With the fruit of her hands, she plants a vineyard. 
She arms her waist with strength, and makes her arms strong. 
She perceives that her merchandise is profitable. Her lamp does not go out by night. 
She lays her hands to the distaff, and her hands hold the spindle. 
She opens her arms to the poor; yes, she extends her hands to the needy. 
She is not afraid of the snow for her household; for all her household are clothed with scarlet. 
She makes for herself carpets of tapestry. Her clothing is fine linen and purple. 
Her husband is respected in the gates, when he sits among the elders of the land. 
She makes linen garments and sells them, and delivers sashes to the merchant. 
Strength and dignity are her clothing. She laughs at the time to come. 
She opens her mouth with wisdom. Instructions of cheshed ·loving-kindness· is on her tongue. 
She looks well to the ways of her household, and does not eat the bread of idleness. 
Her children rise up and call her blessed. Her husband too, as he praises her: 
“Many women have done noble things, but you excel them all.” 
Chen ·Charm, Grace· is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a woman who fears Adonai , she shall be praised. 
Give her of the fruit of her hands! Let her works speak her praise at the city gates! 
