Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 12.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, saying, 
“This month shall be to you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you. 
Speak to all the congregation of Israel God prevails, saying, ‘On the tenth day of this month, they shall take to them every man a lamb, according to their fathers’ houses, a lamb for a household; 
and if the household is too little for a lamb, then he and his neighbor next to his house shall take one according to the number of the souls; according to what everyone can eat you shall make your count for the lamb. 
Your lamb shall be without defect, a male a year old. You shall take it from the sheep, or from the goats: 
and you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month; and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel God prevails shall kill it at evening. 
They shall take some of the blood, and put it on the two door posts and on the lintel, on the houses in which they shall eat it. 
They shall eat the meat in that night, roasted with fire, and matzah ·unleavened bread·. They shall eat it with bitter herbs. 
Don’t eat it raw, nor boiled at all with water, but roasted with fire; with its head, its legs and its inner parts. 
You shall let nothing of it remain until the morning; but that which remains of it until the morning you shall burn with fire. 
This is how you shall eat it: with your belt on your waist, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand; and you shall eat it in haste: it is Adonai ’s Pesac ·Passover·. 
For I will go through the land of Egypt Abode of slavery in that night, and will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, both man and animal. Against all the deities of Egypt Abode of slavery I will execute judgments: I am Adonai . 
The blood shall be to you for a token on the houses where you are: and when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and there shall no plague be on you to destroy you, when I strike the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. 
This day shall be to you for a memorial, and you shall keep it a feast to Adonai : throughout all your generations you shall keep it a feast by this regulation forever. 
“‘Seven days you shall eat matzah ·unleavened bread·; even the first day you shall put away yeast out of your houses, for whoever eats leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel God prevails. 
In the first day there shall be to you a holy convocation, and in the seventh day a holy convocation; no kind of work shall be done in them, except that which every man must eat, that only may be done by you. 
You shall observe the festival of Matzah ·Unleavened bread·; for in this same day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery: therefore you shall observe this day throughout all your generations by this regulation forever. 
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you shall eat matzah ·unleavened bread·, until the twenty first day of the month at evening. 
There shall be no yeast found in your houses for seven days, for whoever eats that which is leavened, that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel God prevails, whether he be a foreigner, or one who is born in the land. 
You shall eat nothing leavened. In all your habitations you shall eat matzah ·unleavened bread·.’” (5) 
Then Moses Drawn out called for all the elders of Israel God prevails, and said to them, “Draw out, and take lambs according to your families, and kill the Pesac ·Passover· lamb. 
You shall take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and strike the lintel and the two door posts with the blood that is in the basin; and none of you shall go out of the door of his house until the morning. 
For Adonai will pass through to strike the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery; and when he sees the blood on the lintel, and on the two door posts, Adonai will pass over the door, and will not allow the destroyer to come in to your houses to strike you. 
You shall observe this thing for an statute to you and to your sons forever. 
It shall happen when you have come to the land which Adonai will give you, according as he has promised, that you shall keep this service. 
It will happen, when your children ask you, ‘What do you mean by this service?’ 
that you shall say, ‘It is the sacrifice of Adonai ’s Pesac ·Passover·, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel God prevails in Egypt Abode of slavery, when he struck the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery, and spared our houses.’” The people bowed their heads and worshiped. 
The children of Israel God prevails went and did so; as Adonai had enjoined Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer, so they did. (6) 
At midnight, Adonai struck all the firstborn in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the dungeon; and all the firstborn of livestock. 
Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, and all the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery; and there was a great cry in Egypt Abode of slavery, for there was not a house where there was not one dead. 
He called for Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer by night, and said, “Rise up, get out from among my people, both you and the children of Israel God prevails; and go, abad ·serve· Adonai , as you have said! 
Take both your flocks and your herds, as you have said, and be gone; and bless me also!” 
The Egyptians people from Abode of slavery were urgent with the people, to send them out of the land in haste, for they said, “We are all dead men.” 
The people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading troughs being bound up in their clothes on their shoulders. 
The children of Israel God prevails did according to the word of Moses Drawn out; and they asked of the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and clothing. 
Adonai gave the people chen ·grace· in the sight of the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery, so that they let them have what they asked. They plundered the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery. 
The children of Israel God prevails traveled from Rameses to Sukkot, about six hundred thousand on foot who were men, besides children. 
A mixed multitude went up also with them, with flocks, herds, and even very much livestock. 
They baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought out of Egypt Abode of slavery; for it was not leavened, because they were divorced out of Egypt Abode of slavery, and couldn’t wait, and they had not prepared any food for themselves. 
Now the time that the children of Israel God prevails lived in Egypt Abode of slavery was four hundred thirty years. 
At the end of four hundred thirty years, to the day, all of Adonai ’s armies went out from the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. 
It is a night to be much observed to Adonai for bringing them out from the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. This is that night of Adonai , to be much observed of all the children of Israel God prevails throughout their generations. 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer, “This is the regulation of the Pesac ·Passover· lamb. No foreigner shall eat of it, 
but every man’s servant who is bought for money, when you have circumcised him, then shall he eat of it. 
A foreigner and a hired servant shall not eat of it. 
It must be eaten In one house. You shall not carry any of the meat outside of the house. Do not break any of its bones. 
All the congregation of Israel God prevails shall keep it. 
When a stranger shall live as a foreigner with you, and will keep the Pesac ·Passover· to Adonai , let all his males be circumcised, and then let him come near and keep it; and he shall be as one who is born in the land: but no uncircumcised person shall eat of it. 
One Torah ·Teaching· shall be to him who is born at home, and to the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you.” 
All the children of Israel God prevails did so. As Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer, so they did. 
That same day, Adonai brought the children of Israel God prevails out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery by their armies. 
