Leviticus / Vayikra.
Chapter 24.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Enjoin the children of Israel God prevails, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a menorah ·lamp· to burn continually. 
Outside of the veil of the Testimony, in the Tent of Meeting, shall Aaron Light-bringer keep it in order from evening to morning before Adonai continually: it shall be a statute forever throughout all your generations. 
He shall keep in order the lamp candles on the pure gold menorah ·lamp· before Adonai continually. 
“You shall take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes of it: one tenth of an ephah two omers; 4.6 q; 4.4 L shall be in one cake. 
You shall set them in two rows, six on a row, on the pure gold table before Adonai . 
You shall put pure frankincense on each row, that it may be to the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire to Adonai . 
Every Sabbath ·To cease· day he shall set it in order before Adonai continually. It is on the behalf of the children of Israel God prevails an everlasting covenant. 
It shall be for Aaron Light-bringer and his sons; and they shall eat it in a holy place: for it is most holy to him of the offerings of Adonai made by fire by a perpetual statute.” 
The son of an Israelite Descendant of God prevails woman, whose father was an Egyptian person from Abode of slavery, went out among the children of Israel God prevails; and the son of the Israelite Descendant of God prevails woman and a man of Israel God prevails strove together in the camp. 
The son of the Israelite Descendant of God prevails woman blasphemed the Name, and cursed; and they brought him to Moses Drawn out. His mother’s name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan He judged. 
They put him in custody, until Adonai ’s will should be declared to them. 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Bring out of the camp him who cursed; and let all who sh'ma ·heard obeyed· him lay their hands on his head, and let all the congregation stone him. 
You shall speak to the children of Israel God prevails, saying, ‘Whoever curses his God shall bear his sin. 
He who blasphemes Adonai ’s name, he shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall certainly stone him. The foreigner as well as the native-born, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death. 
“‘He who strikes any man mortally shall surely be put to death. 
He who strikes an animal mortally shall make it good, life for life. 
If anyone injures his neighbor; as he has done, so shall it be done to him: 
fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he has injured someone, so shall it be done to him. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
He who kills an animal shall make it good; and he who kills a man shall be put to death. 
You shall have one kind of judgment for the foreigner as well as the native-born; for I am Adonai your God.’” 
Moses Drawn out spoke to the children of Israel God prevails; and they brought out him who had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones. The children of Israel God prevails did as Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out. 
