Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 17.
All the congregation of the children of Israel God prevails traveled from the wilderness of Sin, by their journeys, according to Adonai ’s order, and encamped in Rephidim; but there was no water for the people to drink. 
Therefore the people quarreled with Moses Drawn out, and said, “Give us water to drink.” Moses Drawn out said to them, “Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you test Adonai ?” 
The people were thirsty for water there; and the people murmured against Moses Drawn out, and said, “Why have you brought us up out of Egypt Abode of slavery, to kill us, our children, and our livestock with thirst?” 
Moses Drawn out cried to Adonai , saying, “What shall I do with these people? They are almost ready to stone me.” 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Walk on before the people, and take the elders of Israel God prevails with you, and take the rod in your hand with which you struck the Nile, and go. 
Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock in Horeb Desert. You shall strike the rock, and water will come out of it, that the people may drink.” Moses Drawn out did so in the sight of the elders of Israel God prevails. 
He called the name of the place Massah Testing, and Meribah Quarreling, because the children of Israel God prevails quarreled, and because they tested Adonai , saying, “Is Adonai among us, or not?” 
Then Amalek Man who licks up came and fought with Israel God prevails in Rephidim. 
Moses Drawn out said to Joshua Salvation Yah, “Choose men for us, and go out, fight with Amalek Man who licks up. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with God’s rod in my hand.” 
So Joshua Salvation Yah did as Moses Drawn out had told him, and fought with Amalek Man who licks up; and Moses Drawn out, Aaron Light-bringer, and Hur went up to the top of the hill. 
When Moses Drawn out held up his hand, Israel God prevails prevailed. When he let down his hand, Amalek Man who licks up prevailed. 
But Moses Drawn out’ hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat on it. Aaron Light-bringer and Hur held up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side. His hands were steady until sunset. 
Joshua Salvation Yah defeated Amalek Man who licks up and his people with the edge of the sword. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Write this for a memorial in a book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua Salvation Yah: that I will utterly blot out the memory of Amalek Man who licks up from under the sky.” 
Moses Drawn out built an altar, and called its name Adonai our Banner. 
He said, “Yah has sworn: ‘Adonai will have war with Amalek Man who licks up from generation to generation.’” 
