Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 15.
Then Moses Drawn out and the children of Israel God prevails sang this song to Adonai , and said, “I will sing to Adonai , for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea. 
Yah is my strength and song. He has become my yishu'ah ·salvation·. This is my God, and I will praise him; my father’s God, and I will exalt him. 
Adonai is a man of war. Adonai is his name. 
He has cast Pharaoh’s chariots and his army into the sea. His chosen captains are sunk in the Sea of Suf Reed Sea. 
The deeps cover them. They went down into the depths like a stone. 
Your right hand, Adonai , is glorious in power. Your right hand, Adonai , dashes the enemy in pieces. 
In the greatness of your excellency, you overthrow those who rise up against you. You send out your wrath. It consumes them as stubble. 
With the blast of your nostrils, the waters piled up! The floods stood upright as a heap. The deeps were congealed in the heart of the sea. 
The enemy said, ‘I will pursue. I will overtake. I will divide the plunder. My desire shall be satisfied on them. I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them.’ 
You blew with your wind. The sea covered them. They sank like lead in the mighty waters. 
Who is like you, Adonai , among the deities? Who is like you, glorious in holiness, fearful in tehilah ·praise song·, doing wonders? 
You stretched out your right hand. The earth swallowed them. 
“You, in your cheshed ·loving-kindness·, have led the people that you have redeemed. You have guided them in your strength to your holy habitation. 
The peoples have sh'ma ·heard obeyed·. They tremble. Pangs have taken hold on the inhabitants of Philistia. 
Then the chiefs of Edom Red were dismayed. Trembling takes hold of the mighty men of Moab From father. All the inhabitants of Canaan Humbled have melted away. 
Terror and dread falls on them. By the greatness of your arm they are as still as a stone— until your people pass over, Adonai , until the people pass over who you have purchased. 
You shall bring them in, and plant them in the mountain of your inheritance, the place, Adonai , which you have made for yourself to dwell in; the sanctuary, Lord, which your hands have established. 
Adonai shall reign forever and ever.” 
For the horses of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his horsemen into the sea, and Adonai brought back the waters of the sea on them; but the children of Israel God prevails walked on dry land in the middle of the sea. 
Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron Light-bringer, took a tambourine in her hand; and all the women went out after her with tambourines and with dances. 
Miriam answered them, “Sing to Adonai , for he has triumphed. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea.” 
Moses Drawn out led Israel God prevails onward from the Sea of Suf Reed Sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur; and they went three days in the wilderness, and found no water. 
When they came to Marah, they couldn’t drink from the waters of Marah, for they were bitter. Therefore its name was called Marah. 
The people murmured against Moses Drawn out, saying, “What shall we drink?” 
Then he cried to Adonai . Adonai showed him a tree, and he threw it into the waters, and the waters were made sweet. There he made a statute and a judgement for them, and there he tested them; 
and he said, “If you will sh'ma ·hear obey· sh'ma ·hear obey· Adonai your God’s voice, and will do that which is right in his eyes, and will pay attention to his mitzvot ·instructions·, and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you, which I have put on the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery; for I am I am Yahweh Rafa' Yahweh your Physician, Yahweh your Healer.” (A:5, S:4) 
They came to Elim, where there were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters. 
