Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 2.
This is what Isaiah Salvation of Yah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah Praised and Jerusalem City of peace. 
It shall happen in the latter days, that the mountain of Adonai ’s house shall be established on the top of the mountains, and shall be raised above the hills; and all nations shall flow to it. 
Many peoples shall go and say, “Come, let’s go up to the mountain of Adonai , to the house of the God of Jacob Supplanter; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.” For out of Zion Mountain ridge, Marking Torah ·Teaching· shall go forth, and Adonai ’s word from Jerusalem City of peace. 
He will judge between the nations, and will decide concerning many peoples; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. 
House of Jacob Supplanter, come, and let us walk in the light of Adonai . 
For you have forsaken your people, the house of Jacob Supplanter, because they are filled from the east, with those who practice divination like the Philistines To roll in dust (As an insult), and they clasp hands with the children of foreigners. 
Their land is full of silver and gold, neither is there any end of their treasures. Their land also is full of horses, neither is there any end of their chariots. 
Their land also is full of idols. They worship the work of their own hands, that which their own fingers have made. 
Man is brought low, and mankind is humbled; therefore don’t forgive them. 
Enter into the rock, and hide in the dust, to escape from the terror of Adonai , and from the glory of his majesty. 
The lofty looks of man will be brought low, the haughtiness of men will be bowed down, and Adonai alone will be exalted in that day. 
For there will be a day of Adonai Tzva'ot Yahweh Commander of heaven’s armies for all that is proud and haughty, and for all that is lifted up; and it shall be brought low: 
For all the cedars of Lebanon, that are high and lifted up, for all the oaks of Bashan, 
For all the high mountains, for all the hills that are lifted up, 
For every lofty tower, for every fortified wall, 
For all the ships of Tarshish, and for all pleasant imagery. 
The loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men shall be brought low; and Adonai alone shall be exalted in that day. 
The idols shall utterly pass away. 
Men shall go into the caves of the rocks, and into the holes of the earth, to escape from the terror of Adonai , and from the glory of his majesty, when he arises to shake the earth mightily. 
In that day, men shall cast away their idols of silver, and their idols of gold, which have been made for themselves to worship, to the moles and to the bats; 
To go into the caverns of the rocks, and into the clefts of the ragged rocks, to escape from the terror of Adonai , and from the glory of his majesty, when he arises to shake the earth mightily. 
Stop trusting in man, whose breath is in his nostrils; for of what account is he? 
