Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 34.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Enjoin the children of Israel God prevails, and tell them, ‘When you come into the land of Canaan Humbled (this is the land that shall fall to you for an inheritance, even the land of Canaan Humbled according to its borders), 
then your south quarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin along by the side of Edom Red, and your south border shall be from the end of the Salt Sea eastward. 
Your border shall turn about southward of the ascent of Akrabbim, and pass along to Zin; and it shall pass southward of Kadesh Barnea Consecrated Son-inconstant; and it shall go from there to Hazar Addar, and pass along to Azmon. 
The border shall turn about from Azmon to the brook of Egypt Abode of slavery, and it shall end at the sea. 
“‘For the western border, you shall have the Great Sea Mediterranean Sea, Inland Sea and its border. This shall be your west border. 
“‘This shall be your north border: from the Great Sea Mediterranean Sea, Inland Sea you shall mark out for yourselves Mount Hor. 
From Mount Hor you shall mark out to the entrance of Hamath; and the border shall pass by Zedad. 
Then the border shall go to Ziphron, and it shall end at Hazar Enan. This shall be your north border. 
“‘You shall mark out your east border from Hazar Enan to Shepham. 
The border shall go down from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain. The border shall go down, and shall reach to the side of the sea of Chinnereth eastward. 
The border shall go down to the Jordan Descender, and end at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land according to its borders around it.’” 
Moses Drawn out enjoined the children of Israel God prevails, saying, “This is the land which you shall inherit by lot, which Adonai has enjoined to give to the nine tribes, and to the half-tribe; 
for the tribe of the children of Reuben See, a son! according to their fathers’ houses, and the tribe of the children of Gad Good fortune according to their fathers’ houses, have received, and the half-tribe of Manasseh Causing to forget have received, their inheritance. 
The two tribes and the half-tribe have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan Descender at Jericho Fragrant, Moon eastward, toward the sunrise.” (RY:6, LY:4) 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“These are the names of the men who shall divide the land to you for inheritance: Eleazar Help of God the priest, and Joshua Salvation Yah the son of Nun. 
You shall take one prince of every tribe, to divide the land for inheritance. 
These are the names of the men: Of the tribe of Judah Praised, Caleb the son of Jephunneh. 
Of the tribe of the children of Simeon Hearing, Shemuel the son of Ammihud. 
Of the tribe of Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south, Elidad the son of Chislon. 
Of the tribe of the children of Dan He judged a prince, Bukki the son of Jogli. 
Of the children of Joseph May he add: of the tribe of the children of Manasseh Causing to forget a prince, Hanniel the son of Ephod. 
Of the tribe of the children of Ephraim Fruit a prince, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan. 
Of the tribe of the children of Zebulun Living together a prince, Elizaphan the son of Parnach. 
Of the tribe of the children of Issachar Hire, Reward a prince, Paltiel the son of Azzan. 
Of the tribe of the children of Asher Happy a prince, Ahihud the son of Shelomi. 
Of the tribe of the children of Naphtali My wrestling a prince, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.” 
These are they whom Adonai enjoined to divide the inheritance to the children of Israel God prevails in the land of Canaan Humbled. 
