Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 15.
After these things Davar Yahweh Word of He sustains breathing came to Avram Exalted father in a vision, saying, “Don’t be afraid, Avram Exalted father. I am your shield, your exceedingly great reward.” 
Avram Exalted father said, “Lord Adonai , what will you give me, since I go childless, and he who will inherit my estate is Eliezer of Damascus Bucket of blood?” 
Avram Exalted father said, “Behold, to me you have given no children: and, behold, one born in my house is my heir.” 
Behold, Adonai ’s word came to him, saying, “This man will not be your heir, but he who will come out of your own body will be your heir.” 
Adonai brought him outside, and said, “Look now toward the sky, and count the stars, if you are able to count them.” He said to Avram Exalted father, “So will your offspring be.” 
He believed in Adonai , who credited it to him for righteousness. (6) 
He said to Avram Exalted father, “I am Adonai who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give you this land to inherit it.” 
He said, “Lord Adonai , how will I know that I will inherit it?” 
He said to him, “Bring me a heifer three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtledove, and a young pigeon.” 
He brought him all these, and divided them in the middle, and laid each half opposite the other; but he didn’t divide the birds. 
The birds of prey came down on the carcasses, and Avram Exalted father drove them away. 
When the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Avram Exalted father. Now terror and great darkness fell on him. 
He said to Avram Exalted father, “Know for sure that your offspring will live as foreigners in a land that is not theirs, and will serve them. They will afflict them four hundred years. 
I will also judge that nation, whom they will serve. Afterward they will come out with great wealth, 
but you will go to your fathers in peace. You will be buried at a good old age. 
In the fourth generation they will come here again, for the iniquity of the Amorite Descendants of Talkers is not yet full.” 
It came to pass that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, behold, a smoking furnace, and a flaming torch passed between these pieces. 
In that day Adonai made a covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties· with Avram Exalted father, saying, “I have given this land to your offspring, from the river of Egypt Abode of slavery to the great river, the river Euphrates Fruitful: 
the Kenites Descendants of Acquisition, the Kenezites Descendants of Purchase, the Kadmonites Descendants of Ancients, Chiefs, 
the Hittites Descendants of Trembling fear, the Perizzites Descendants of Belonging to village, the Rephaim Descendants of Terrible one, 
the Amorites Descendants of Talkers, the Canaanites Descendants of Humbled, the Girgashites Descendants of Who arrives from pilgrimage, and the Jebusites Descendants of Thresher.” 
