Leviticus / Vayikra.
Chapter 18.
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, 
“Speak to the children of Israel God prevails, and say to them, ‘I am Adonai your God. 
You shall not do as they do in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, where you lived: and you shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan Humbled, where I am bringing you. You shall not follow their regulations. 
You shall do my judgments, and you shall keep my regulations, and walk in them: I am Adonai your God. 
You shall therefore keep my regulations and my judgments; which if a man does them, he shall live in them. I am Adonai . (LY:6) 
“‘None of you shall approach anyone who are his close relatives, to uncover their nakedness: I am Adonai . 
“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, nor the nakedness of your mother: she is your mother. You shall not uncover her nakedness. 
“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife. It is your father’s nakedness. 
“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father, or the daughter of your mother, whether born at home, or born abroad. 
“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son’s daughter, or of your daughter’s daughter, even their nakedness: for theirs is your own nakedness. 
“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife’s daughter, conceived by your father, since she is your sister. 
“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s sister: she is your father’s near kinswoman. 
“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister: for she is your mother’s near kinswoman. 
“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s brother by not approaching his wife. She is your aunt. 
“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law: she is your son’s wife. You shall not uncover her nakedness. 
“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother’s wife. It is your brother’s nakedness. 
“‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter. You shall not take her son’s daughter, or her daughter’s daughter, to uncover her nakedness; they are near kinswomen: it is wickedness. 
“‘You shall not take a wife to her sister, to be a rival, to uncover her nakedness, while her sister is yet alive. 
“‘You shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is impure by her uncleanness. 
“‘You shall not lie carnally with your neighbor’s wife, and defile yourself with her. 
“‘You shall not give any of your children to sacrifice to Molech. You shall not profane the name of your God. I am Adonai . (RY:4, LY:7) 
“‘You shall not go to bed with a man, as with a woman; it is an abomination. 
“‘You shall not lie with any animal to defile yourself with it. No woman may give herself to an animal, to lie down with it: it is a perversion. 
“‘Don’t defile yourselves in any of these things: for in all these the nations which I am casting out before you were defiled. 
The land was defiled: therefore I punished its iniquity, and the land vomited out her inhabitants. 
You therefore shall keep my regulations and my judgments, and shall not do any of these abominations; neither the native-born, nor the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you; (LY: Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
(for the men of the land that were before you had done all these abominations, and the land became defiled); 
that the land not vomit you out also, when you defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before you. 
“‘For whoever shall do any of these abominations, even the souls that do them shall be cut off from among their people. 
Therefore you shall keep my requirements, that you do not practice any of these abominable regulations and customs, which were practiced before you, and that you do not defile yourselves with them. I am Adonai your God.’” 
