Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 10.
Now this is the history of the generations of the sons of Noah Rest and of Shem Name, Ham Hot, Intensity, Passion, and Japheth Enlargement, Spreading wide. Sons were born to them after the flood. 
The sons of Japheth Enlargement, Spreading wide were: Gomer, Magog From roof-top, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras. 
The sons of Gomer were: Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah. 
The sons of Javan were: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. 
Of these were the islands of the nations divided in their lands, everyone after his language, after their families, in their nations. 
The sons of Ham Hot, Intensity, Passion were: Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan Humbled. 
The sons of Cush were: Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah were: Sheba and Dedan. 
Cush became the father of Nimrod Let us rebel. He began to be a mighty one in the earth. 
He was a mighty hunter before Adonai . Therefore it is said, “like Nimrod Let us rebel, a mighty hunter before Adonai ”. 
The beginning of his kingdom was Babel Confusion, Erech, Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. 
Out of that land he went into Assyria Level plain, and built Nineveh Offspring’s Habitation, Rehoboth Ir, Calah, 
and Resen between Nineveh Offspring’s Habitation and the great city Calah. 
Mizraim became the father of Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim, 
Pathrusim, Casluhim (which the Philistines To roll in dust (As an insult) descended from), and Caphtorim. 
Canaan Humbled became the father of Sidon (his firstborn), Heth Trembling fear, 
the Jebusites Descendants of Thresher, the Amorites Descendants of Talkers, the Girgashites Descendants of Who arrives from pilgrimage, 
the Hivites Wicked, the Arkites, the Sinites, 
the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites. Afterward the families of the Canaanites Descendants of Humbled were spread abroad. 
The border of the Canaanites Descendants of Humbled was from Sidon— as you go toward Gerar— to Gaza— as you go toward Sodom Burning, Gomorrah Rebellious people, Tyrants, Admah, and Zeboiim— to Lasha. 
These are the sons of Ham Hot, Intensity, Passion, after their families, according to their languages, in their lands and their nations. 
Children were also born to Shem Name, the father of all the children of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth Enlargement, Spreading wide. 
The sons of Shem Name were: Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, and Aram Elevated. 
The sons of Aram Elevated were: Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash. 
Arpachshad became the father of Shelah. Shelah became the father of Eber. 
To Eber were born two sons. The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided. His brother’s name was Joktan. 
Joktan became the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, 
Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 
Obal, Abimael, Sheba, 
Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan. 
Their dwelling extended from Mesha, as you go toward Sephar, the mountain of the east. 
These are the sons of Shem Name, by their families, according to their languages, lands, and nations. 
These are the families of the sons of Noah Rest, by their generations, according to their nations. The nations divided from these in the earth after the flood. 
