Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 56.
Adonai says, “Maintain mishpat ·justice·, and do what is right; for my yishu'ah ·salvation· is near, and my righteousness will soon be revealed. 
Blessed is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds it fast; who keeps the Sabbath ·To cease· without profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil.” 
Let no foreigner, who has joined himself to Adonai , speak, saying, “Adonai will surely separate me from his people.” Do not let the eunuch say, “Behold, I am a dry tree.” 
For Adonai says, “To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, and choose the things that please me, and hold fast to my covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties·: 
I will give them in my house and within my walls a memorial and a name better than of sons and of daughters. I will give them an everlasting name, that will not be cut off. 
Also the foreigners who join themselves to Adonai , to serve him, and to 'ahav ·affectionately love· Adonai ’s name, to be his servants, everyone who keeps the Sabbath ·To cease· from profaning it, and holds fast my covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties·; 
I will bring these to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar; for my house will be called a house of prayer for all peoples.” 
The Lord Adonai , who gathers the outcasts of Israel God prevails, says, “I will yet gather others to him, besides his own who are gathered.” 
All you animals of the field, come to devour, all you animals in the forest. 
His watchmen are blind. They are all without knowledge. They are all mute dogs. They can’t bark; dreaming, lying down, 'ahav ·affectionately loving· slumber. 
Yes, the dogs are greedy. They can never have enough. They are shepherds who can’t understand. They have all turned to their own way, each one to his gain, from every quarter. 
“Come,” say they, “I will get wine, and we will fill ourselves with strong drink; and tomorrow will be as today, great beyond measure.” 
