Psalms [Praises].
Chapter 102.
Sh'ma ·Hear obey· my prayer, Adonai ! Let my cry come to you. 
Don’t hide your face from me in the day of my distress. Turn your ear to me. Answer me quickly in the day when I call. 
For my days consume away like smoke. My bones are burned as a torch. 
My heart is blighted like grass, and withered, for I forget to eat my bread. 
By reason of the voice of my groaning, my bones stick to my skin. 
I am like a pelican of the wilderness. I have become as an owl of the waste places. 
I watch, and have become like a sparrow that is alone on the housetop. 
My enemies reproach me all day. Those who are mad at me use my name as a curse. 
For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mixed my drink with tears, 
Because of your indignation and your wrath, for you have taken me up, and thrown me away. 
My days are like a long shadow. I have withered like grass. 
But you, Adonai , will remain forever; your renown endures to all generations. 
You will arise and have racham ·merciful love· on Zion Mountain ridge, Marking; for it is time to have mercy on her. Yes, the set time has come. 
For your servants take pleasure in her stones, and have pity even on her dust. 
So the nations will fear Adonai ’s name; all the kings of the earth your kavod ·weighty glory·. 
For Adonai has built up Zion Mountain ridge, Marking. He has appeared in his kavod ·weighty glory·. 
He has responded to the prayer of the destitute, and has not despised their prayer. 
This will be written for the generation to come. A people which will be created will Halleluyah ·praise Yah·. 
For he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary. From heaven, Adonai saw the earth; 
to sh'ma ·hear obey· the groans of the prisoner; to free those who are condemned to death; 
that men may declare Adonai ’s name in Zion Mountain ridge, Marking, and his tehilah ·praise song· in Jerusalem City of peace; 
when the peoples are gathered together, the kingdoms, to serve Adonai . 
He weakened my strength along the course. He shortened my days. 
I said, “My God, don’t take me away in the middle of my days. Your years are throughout all generations. 
Of old, you laid the foundation of the earth. The heavens are the work of your hands. 
They will perish, but you will endure. Yes, all of them will wear out like a garment. You will change them like a cloak, and they will pass away. 
But you remain the same, your years will have no end. 
The children of your servants will continue. Their offspring will be established before you.” 
