The Fourth Book of Torah, Numbers / B'midbar [In the desert].
Chapter 1.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out in the wilderness of Sinai Thorn, in the Tent of Meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, saying, 
“Take a census of all the congregation of the children of Israel God prevails, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, every male, one by one; 
from twenty years old and upward, all who are able to go out to war in Israel God prevails. You and Aaron Light-bringer shall count them by their divisions. 
With you there shall be a man of every tribe; everyone head of his fathers’ house. 
These are the names of the men who shall stand with you: Of Reuben See, a son!: Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
Of Simeon Hearing: Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai My rock almighty. 
Of Judah Praised: Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
Of Issachar Hire, Reward: Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
Of Zebulun Living together: Eliab the son of Helon. 
Of the children of Joseph May he add: Of Ephraim Fruit: Elishama the son of Ammihud. Of Manasseh Causing to forget: Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. 
Of Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south: Abidan the son of Gideoni. 
Of Dan He judged: Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. 
Of Asher Happy: Pagiel the son of Ochran. 
Of Gad Good fortune: Eliasaph the son of Deuel. 
Of Naphtali My wrestling: Ahira the son of Enan.” 
These are those who were called of the congregation, the princes of the tribes of their fathers; they were the heads of the thousands of Israel God prevails. 
Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer took these men who are mentioned by name. 
They assembled all the congregation together on the first day of the second month; and they declared their ancestry by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, one by one. 
As Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out, so he counted them in the wilderness of Sinai Thorn. (2) 
The children of Reuben See, a son!, Israel God prevails’s firstborn, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, one by one, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Reuben See, a son!, were forty-six thousand five hundred. 
Of the children of Simeon Hearing, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, those who were counted of it, according to the number of the names, one by one, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Simeon Hearing, were fifty-nine thousand three hundred. 
Of the children of Gad Good fortune, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Gad Good fortune, were forty-five thousand six hundred fifty. 
Of the children of Judah Praised, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Judah Praised, were seventy-four thousand six hundred. 
Of the children of Issachar Hire, Reward, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Issachar Hire, Reward, were fifty-four thousand four hundred. 
Of the children of Zebulun Living together, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Zebulun Living together, were fifty-seven thousand four hundred. 
Of the children of Joseph May he add, of the children of Ephraim Fruit, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Ephraim Fruit, were forty thousand five hundred. 
Of the children of Manasseh Causing to forget, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Manasseh Causing to forget, were thirty-two thousand two hundred. 
Of the children of Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south, were thirty-five thousand four hundred. 
Of the children of Dan He judged, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Dan He judged, were sixty-two thousand seven hundred. 
Of the children of Asher Happy, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Asher Happy, were forty-one thousand five hundred. 
Of the children of Naphtali My wrestling, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war; 
those who were counted of them, of the tribe of Naphtali My wrestling, were fifty-three thousand four hundred. 
These are those who were counted, whom Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer counted, and the princes of Israel God prevails, being twelve men: they were each one for his fathers’ house. 
So all those who were counted of the children of Israel God prevails by their fathers’ houses, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go out to war in Israel God prevails; 
even all those who were counted were six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty. 
But the Levites Descendants of United with after the tribe of their fathers was not counted among them. 
For Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Only the tribe of Levi United with you shall not count, neither shall you take a census of them among the children of Israel God prevails; 
but appoint the Levites Descendants of United with over the Tabernacle of the Testimony, and over all its furnishings, and over all that belongs to it. They shall carry the tabernacle, and all its furnishings; and they shall take care of it, and shall encamp around it. 
When the tabernacle is to move, the Levites Descendants of United with shall take it down; and when the tabernacle is to be set up, the Levites Descendants of United with shall set it up. The stranger who comes near shall be put to death. 
The children of Israel God prevails shall pitch their tents, every man by his own camp, and every man by his own standard, according to their divisions. 
But the Levites Descendants of United with shall encamp around the Tabernacle of the Testimony, that there may be no wrath on the congregation of the children of Israel God prevails: and the Levites Descendants of United with shall be responsible for the Tabernacle of the Testimony.” 
Thus the children of Israel God prevails did. According to all that Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out, so they did. 
