Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 24.
When Balaam Not people, Destroyer of people saw that it pleased Adonai to bless Israel God prevails, he didn’t go, as at the other times, to meet with enchantments, but he set his face toward the wilderness. 
Balaam Not people, Destroyer of people lifted up his eyes, and he saw Israel God prevails dwelling according to their tribes; and the Spirit of God came on him. 
He took up his parable, and said, “Balaam Not people, Destroyer of people the son of Beor says, the man whose eyes are open says; 
he says, who sh'ma ·hears obeys· the words of God, who sees the vision of Shaddai Almighty, falling down, and having his eyes open: 
How goodly are your tents, Jacob Supplanter, and your tents, Israel God prevails! 
As valleys they are spread out, as gardens by the riverside, as aloes which Adonai has planted, as cedar trees beside the waters. 
Water shall flow from his buckets. His seed shall be in many waters. His king shall be higher than Agag. His kingdom shall be exalted. 
God brings him out of Egypt Abode of slavery. He has as it were the strength of the wild ox. He shall eat up the nations his adversaries, shall break their bones in pieces, and pierce them with his arrows. 
He couched, he lay down as a lion, as a lioness; who shall rouse him up? Everyone who blesses you is blessed. Everyone who curses you is cursed.” 
Balak’s anger burned against Balaam Not people, Destroyer of people, and he struck his hands together. Balak said to Balaam Not people, Destroyer of people, “I called you to curse my enemies, and, behold, you have altogether blessed them these three times. 
Therefore now flee you to your place! I thought to promote you to great honor; but, behold, Adonai has kept you back from honor.” 
Balaam Not people, Destroyer of people said to Balak, “Didn’t I also tell your messengers who you sent to me, saying, 
‘If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I can’t go beyond Adonai ’s word, to do either good or bad of my own mind. I will say what Adonai says’? (LY:7) 
Now, behold, I go to my people. Come, I will inform you what this people shall do to your people in the latter days.” 
He took up his parable, and said, “Balaam Not people, Destroyer of people the son of Beor says, the man whose eyes are open says; 
he says, who sh'ma ·hears obeys· the words of God, knows the knowledge of haElyon the Most High, and who sees the vision of Shaddai Almighty, Falling down, and having his eyes open: 
I see him, but not now. I see him, but not near. A star will come out of Jacob Supplanter. A scepter will rise out of Israel God prevails, and shall strike through the corners of Moab From father, and break down all the sons of Sheth. 
Edom Red shall be a possession. Seir, his enemies, also shall be a possession, while Israel God prevails does valiantly. 
Out of Jacob Supplanter shall one have dominion, and shall destroy the remnant from the city.” 
He looked at Amalek Man who licks up, and took up his parable, and said, “Amalek Man who licks up was the first of the nations, But his latter end shall come to destruction.” 
He looked at the Kenite, and took up his parable, and said, “Your dwelling place is strong. Your nest is set in the rock. 
Nevertheless Kain shall be wasted, until Asshur carries you away captive.” 
He took up his parable, and said, “Alas, who shall live when God does this? 
But ships shall come from the coast of Kittim. They shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber. He also shall come to destruction.” 
Balaam Not people, Destroyer of people rose up, and went and teshuvah ·completely returned· to his place; and Balak also went his way. 
