Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 26.
After the plague, Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out and to Eleazar Help of God the son of Aaron Light-bringer the priest, saying, 
“Take a census of all the congregation of the children of Israel God prevails, from twenty years old and upward, by their fathers’ houses, all who are able to go out to war in Israel God prevails.” 
Moses Drawn out and Eleazar Help of God the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab From father by the Jordan Descender at Jericho Fragrant, Moon, saying, 
“Take a census, from twenty years old and upward; as Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out and the children of Israel God prevails.” These are those that came out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. (2) 
(The census results begin with) Reuben See, a son!, the firstborn of Israel God prevails; the sons of Reuben See, a son!: of Hanoch, the family of the Hanochites; of Pallu, the family of the Palluites; 
of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites. 
These are the families of the Reubenites; and those who were counted of them were forty-three thousand seven hundred thirty. 
The sons of Pallu: Eliab. 
The sons of Eliab: Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. These are that Dathan and Abiram, who were called by the congregation, who rebelled against Moses Drawn out and against Aaron Light-bringer in the company of Korach Bald one, Frost, when they rebelled against Adonai , 
and the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up together with Korach Bald one, Frost, when that company died; at the time the fire devoured two hundred fifty men, and they became a sign. 
Notwithstanding, the sons of Korach Bald one, Frost didn’t die. 
The sons of Simeon Hearing after their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites; 
of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites; of Shaul Asked for, the family of the Shaulites. 
These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty-two thousand two hundred. 
The sons of Gad Good fortune after their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the family of the Haggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites; 
of Ozni, the family of the Oznites; of Eri, the family of the Erites; 
of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of Areli, the family of the Arelites. 
These are the families of the sons of Gad Good fortune according to those who were counted of them, forty thousand and five hundred. 
The sons of Judah Praised: Er and Onan. Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan Humbled. 
The sons of Judah Praised after their families were: of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites; of Perez, the family of the Perezites; of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites. 
The sons of Perez were: of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites. 
These are the families of Judah Praised according to those who were counted of them, seventy-six thousand five hundred. 
The sons of Issachar Hire, Reward after their families: of Tola, the family of the Tolaites; of Puvah, the family of the Punites; 
of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites. 
These are the families of Issachar Hire, Reward according to those who were counted of them, sixty-four thousand three hundred. 
The sons of Zebulun Living together after their families: of Sered, the family of the Seredites; of Elon, the family of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites. 
These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those who were counted of them, sixty thousand five hundred. 
The sons of Joseph May he add after their families: Manasseh Causing to forget and Ephraim Fruit. 
The sons of Manasseh Causing to forget: of Machir, the family of the Machirites; and Machir became the father of Gilead; of Gilead, the family of the Gileadites. 
These are the sons of Gilead: of Iezer, the family of the Iezerites; of Helek, the family of the Helekites; 
and Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; and Shechem, the family of the Shechemites; 
and Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; and Hepher, the family of the Hepherites. 
Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters: and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, and Noah Rest, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. 
These are the families of Manasseh Causing to forget. Those who were counted of them were fifty-two thousand seven hundred. 
These are the sons of Ephraim Fruit after their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthelahites; of Becher, the family of the Becherites; of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites. 
These are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites. 
These are the families of the sons of Ephraim Fruit according to those who were counted of them, thirty-two thousand five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph May he add after their families. 
The sons of Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south after their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites; 
of Shephupham, the family of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites. 
The sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: the family of the Ardites; of Naaman, the family of the Naamites. 
These are the sons of Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south after their families; and those who were counted of them were forty-five thousand six hundred. 
These are the sons of Dan He judged after their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan He judged after their families. 
All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those who were counted of them, were sixty-four thousand four hundred. 
The sons of Asher Happy after their families: of Imnah, the family of the Imnites; of Ishvi, the family of the Ishvites; of Beriah, the family of the Berites. 
Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites. 
The name of the daughter of Asher Happy was Serah. 
These are the families of the sons of Asher Happy according to those who were counted of them, fifty-three thousand and four hundred. 
The sons of Naphtali My wrestling after their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites; 
of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites. 
These are the families of Naphtali My wrestling according to their families; and those who were counted of them were forty-five thousand four hundred. 
These are those who were counted of the children of Israel God prevails, six hundred one thousand seven hundred thirty. (3) 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“To these the land shall be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names. 
To the more you shall give the more inheritance, and to the fewer you shall give the less inheritance. To everyone according to those who were counted of him shall his inheritance be given. 
Notwithstanding, the land shall be divided by lot. According to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit. 
According to the lot shall their inheritance be divided between the more and the fewer.” 
These are those who were counted of the Levites Descendants of United with after their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; of Merari, the family of the Merarites. 
These are the families of Levi United with: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korahites. Kohath became the father of Amram. 
The name of Amram’s wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi United with, who was born to Levi United with in Egypt Abode of slavery. She bore to Amram Aaron Light-bringer and Moses Drawn out, and Miriam their sister. 
To Aaron Light-bringer were born Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar Help of God and Ithamar. 
Nadab and Abihu died when they offered strange fire before Adonai . 
Those who were counted of them were twenty-three thousand, every male from a month old and upward; for they were not counted among the children of Israel God prevails, because there was no inheritance given them among the children of Israel God prevails. 
These are those who were counted by Moses Drawn out and Eleazar Help of God the priest, who counted the children of Israel God prevails in the plains of Moab From father by the Jordan Descender at Jericho Fragrant, Moon. 
But among these there was not a man of them who were counted by Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer the priest, who counted the children of Israel God prevails in the wilderness of Sinai Thorn. 
For Adonai had said of them, “They shall surely die in the wilderness.” There was not a man left of them, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua Salvation Yah the son of Nun. 
