Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 5.
Moses Drawn out called to all Israel God prevails, and said to them, “Sh'ma ·Hear obey·, Israel God prevails, the statutes and the judgments which I speak in your ears today, that you may learn them, and observe to do them.” 
Yahweh Eloheikhem Yahweh our God made a covenant with us in Horeb Desert. 
Adonai didn’t make this covenant with our fathers, but with us, even us, who are all of us here alive today. 
Adonai spoke with you face to face on the mountain out of the middle of the fire, 
(I stood between Adonai and you at that time, to show you Adonai ’s word; for you were afraid because of the fire, and didn’t go up onto the mountain) saying, 
“I am Adonai your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, out of the house of bondage. 
“You shall have no other deities before me. 
“You shall not make an engraved image for yourself, any likeness of what is in heaven above, or what is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. 
You shall not hawa ·bow low, prostrate· yourself down to them, nor abad ·serve· them; for I, Adonai , your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, and on the third and on the fourth generation of those who hate me; 
and showing cheshed ·loving-kindness· to thousands of those who 'ahav ·affectionately love· me and keep my mitzvot ·instructions·. 
“You shall not take the name of Adonai your God in vain: for Adonai will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. 
“Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as Adonai your God enjoined you. 
You shall labor six days, and do all your work; 
but the seventh day is a Sabbath ·To cease· to Adonai your God, in which you shall not do any work, you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor any of your livestock, nor your stranger who is within your gates; that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you. 
You shall remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, and Adonai your God brought you out of there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm. Therefore Adonai your God enjoined you to keep the Sabbath day. 
“Honor your father and your mother, as Adonai your God enjoined you; that your days may be long, and that it may go well with you, in the land which Adonai your God gives you. 
“You shall not murder. 
“You shall not commit adultery. 
“You shall not steal. 
“You shall not give false witness against your neighbor. 
“You shall not covet your neighbor’s wife. Neither shall you desire your neighbor’s house, his field, or his male servant, or his female servant, his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your wrote neighbor’s.” (A:5, S:4) 
Adonai spoke these words to all your assembly on the mountain out of the middle of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great voice. He added no more. He them on two stone tablets, and gave them to me. 
When you sh'ma ·heard obeyed· the voice out of the middle of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, you came near to me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders; 
and you said, “Behold, Yahweh Eloheikhem Yahweh our God has shown us his kavod ·weighty glory· and his greatness, and we have sh'ma ·heard obeyed· his voice out of the middle of the fire. We have seen today that God does speak with man, and he lives. 
Now therefore why should we die? For this great fire will consume us. If we sh'ma ·hear obey· Yahweh Eloheikhem Yahweh our God’s voice any more, then we shall die. 
For who is there of all flesh, that has sh'ma ·heard obeyed· the voice of the Elohim Chayim Living God speaking out of the middle of the fire, as we have, and lived? 
Go near, and sh'ma ·hear obey· all that Yahweh Eloheikhem Yahweh our God shall say, and tell us all that Yahweh Eloheikhem Yahweh our God tells you; and we will sh'ma ·hear obey· it, and do it.” 
Adonai sh'ma ·heard obeyed· the voice of your words, when you spoke to me; and Adonai said to me, “I have sh'ma ·heard obeyed· the voice of the words of this people, which they have spoken to you. They have well said all that they have spoken. 
Oh that there were such a heart in them, that they would fear me, and keep all my mitzvot ·instructions· always, that it might be well with them, and with their children forever! 
“Go tell them, ‘Teshuvah ·Completely return· to your tents.’ 
But as for you, stand here by me, and I will tell you all the mitzvot ·instructions·, and the statutes, and the judgments, which you shall teach them, that they may do them in the land which I give them to possess it.” 
You shall observe to do therefore as Adonai your God has enjoined you. You shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. 
You shall walk in all the way which Adonai your God has enjoined you, that you may live, and that it may be well with you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which you shall possess. 
