Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 35.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out in the plains of Moab From father by the Jordan Descender at Jericho Fragrant, Moon, saying, 
“Enjoin the children of Israel God prevails to give to the Levites Descendants of United with of the inheritance of their possession cities to dwell in. You shall give suburbs for the cities around them to the Levites Descendants of United with. 
They shall have the cities to dwell in. Their suburbs shall be for their livestock, and for their possessions, and for all their animals. 
“The suburbs of the cities, which you shall give to the Levites Descendants of United with, shall be from the wall of the city and outward one thousand cubits 1/3 mi; 457.2 km around it. 
You shall measure outside of the city for the east side two thousand cubits 1/2 mi; 914 km, and for the south side two thousand cubits 1/2 mi; 914 km, and for the west side two thousand cubits 1/2 mi; 914 km, and for the north side two thousand cubits 1/2 mi; 914 km, the city being in the middle. This shall be the suburbs of their cities. 
“The cities which you shall give to the Levites Descendants of United with, they shall be the six cities of refuge, which you shall give for the man slayer to flee to. Besides them you shall give forty-two cities. 
All the cities which you shall give to the Levites Descendants of United with shall be forty-eight cities together with their suburbs. 
Concerning the cities which you shall give of the possession of the children of Israel God prevails, from the many you shall take many; and from the few you shall take few. Everyone according to his inheritance which he inherits shall give some of his cities to the Levites Descendants of United with.” (RY:7, LY:6) 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Speak to the children of Israel God prevails, and tell them, ‘When you pass over the Jordan Descender into the land of Canaan Humbled, 
then you shall appoint for yourselves cities to be cities of refuge for you, that the man slayer who kills any person unwittingly may flee there. 
The cities shall be to you for refuge from the avenger, that the man slayer not die, until he stands before the congregation for judgment. 
The cities which you shall give shall be for you six cities of refuge. 
You shall give three cities beyond the Jordan Descender, and you shall give three cities in the land of Canaan Humbled. They shall be cities of refuge. 
For the children of Israel God prevails, and for the stranger and for the foreigner living among them, shall these six cities be for refuge; that everyone who kills any person unwittingly may flee there. 
“‘But if he struck him with an instrument of iron, so that he died, he is a murderer. The murderer shall surely be put to death. 
If he struck him with a stone in the hand, by which a man may die, and he died, he is a murderer. The murderer shall surely be put to death. 
Or if he struck him with a weapon of wood in the hand, by which a man may die, and he died, he is a murderer. The murderer shall surely be put to death. 
The avenger of blood shall himself put the murderer to death. When he meets him, he shall put him to death. 
If he shoved him out of hatred, or hurled at him, lying in wait, so that he died, 
or in hostility struck him with his hand, so that he died, he who struck him shall surely be put to death. He is a murderer. The avenger of blood shall put the murderer to death, when he meets him. 
“‘But if he shoved him suddenly without hostility, or hurled on him anything without lying in wait, 
or with any stone, by which a man may die, not seeing him, and cast it on him, so that he died, and he was not his enemy, neither sought his harm; 
then the congregation shall judge between the striker and the avenger of blood according to these judgments. 
The congregation shall deliver the man slayer out of the hand of the avenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to his city of refuge, where he had fled. He shall dwell therein until the death of the high priest, who was anointed with the holy oil. 
“‘But if the man slayer shall at any time go beyond the border of his city of refuge, where he flees, 
and the avenger of blood finds him outside of the border of his city of refuge, and the avenger of blood kills the man slayer; he shall not be guilty of blood, 
because he should have remained in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest. But after the death of the high priest, the man slayer shall teshuvah ·completely return· into the land of his possession. 
“‘These things shall be for a statute and judgement to you throughout all your generations in all your dwellings. 
“‘Whoever kills any person, the murderer shall be slain at the mouth of witnesses; but one witness shall not testify against any person that he die. 
“‘Moreover you shall take no ransom for the life of a murderer who is guilty of death; but he shall surely be put to death. 
“‘You shall take no ransom for him who is fled to his city of refuge, that he may come again to dwell in the land, until the death of the priest. 
“‘So you shall not pollute the land in which you are; for blood pollutes the land. No atonement can be made for the land for the blood that is shed in it, but by the blood of him who shed it. 
You shall not defile the land which you inhabit, in the middle of which I dwell; for I, Adonai , dwell in the middle of the children of Israel God prevails.’” 
