The Good News Recorded by Mark [Hammer, Dedicated to war deity].
Chapter 1.
The beginning of the Good News of Yeshua Messiah Salvation Anointed one, the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·. 
As it is written in the prophets, “Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you: 
the voice of one crys out in the wilderness, ‘Make ready the way of MarYah Master Yahweh! Make his paths straight!’” 
John Yah is gracious came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching the baptism of teshuvah ·complete repentance· for forgiveness of sins. 
All the country of Judea Praise and all those of Jerusalem City of peace went out to him. They were baptized by him in the Jordan Descender river, confessing their sins. 
John Yah is gracious was clothed with camel’s hair and a leather belt around his waist. He ate locusts and wild honey. 
He preached, saying, “After me comes he who is mightier than I, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and loosen. 
I baptized you in water, but he will baptize you in Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness.” 
In those days, Yeshua Salvation came from Nazareth Branch, Separated one of Galilee District, Circuit, and was baptized by John Yah is gracious in the Jordan Descender. 
Immediately coming up from the water, he saw the heavens parting, and haRuach the Spirit descending on him like a dove. 
A voice came out of the sky, “You are my agapetos ·beloved, esteemed· Son, in whom I am well pleased.” 
Immediately haRuach the Spirit drove him out into the wilderness. 
He was there in the wilderness forty days tempted by Satan Adversary. He was with the wild animals; and the angels were serving him. 
Now after John Yah is gracious was taken into custody, Yeshua Salvation came into Galilee District, Circuit, preaching the Good News of God’s Kingdom, 
and saying, “The time is fulfilled, and God’s Kingdom is at hand! Teshuvah ·Turn repent·, and believe in the Good News.” 
Passing along by the sea of Galilee District, Circuit, he saw Simeon Hearing and Andrew Manly the brother of Simeon Hearing casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. 
Yeshua Salvation said to them, “Come after me, and I will make you into fishers for men.” 
Immediately they left their nets, and followed him. 
Going on a little further from there, he saw James son of Zebedee Surplanter son of Yah Has Bestowed, and John Yah is gracious, his brother, who were also in the boat mending the nets. 
Immediately he called them, and they left their father, Zebedee Bestowed by Yah, in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him. 
They went into Capernaum Village-Comfort, Village-Compassion, and immediately on the Sabbath ·To cease· day he entered into the synagogue and taught. 
They were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as having authority, and not as the Torah-Teachers. 
Immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, 
saying, “Ha! What do we have to do with you, Yeshua Salvation, you Nazarene person from Branch, Separated one? Have you come to destroy us? I know you who you are: haKadosh Elohim the Holy One of God!” 
Yeshua Salvation rebuked him, saying, “Be quiet, and come out of him!” 
The unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him. 
They were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, “What is this? A new teaching? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him!” 
The report of him went out immediately everywhere into all the region of Galilee District, Circuit and its surrounding area. 
Immediately, when they had come out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simeon Hearing and Andrew Manly, with James Surplanter and John Yah is gracious. 
Now Simeon Hearing’s wife’s mother lay sick with a fever, and immediately they told him about her. 
He came and took her by the hand, and raised her up. The fever left her, and she served them. 
At evening, when the sun had set, they brought to him all who were sick, and those who were possessed by demons. 
All the city was gathered together at the door. 
He healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons. He didn’t allow the demons to speak, because they knew him. 
Early in the morning, while it was still dark, he rose up and went out, and departed into a deserted place, and prayed there. 
Simeon Hearing and those who were with him followed after him; 
and they found him, and told him, “Everyone is looking for you.” 
He said to them, “Let’s go elsewhere into the next towns, that I may preach there also, because I came out for this reason.” 
He went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee District, Circuit, preaching and casting out demons. 
A leper came to him, begging him, kneeling down to him, and saying to him, “If you want to, you can make me clean.” 
Being moved with compassion, he stretched out his hand, and touched him, and said to him, “I want to. Be made clean.” 
When he had said this, immediately the tzara'at ·leprosy· departed from him, and he was made clean. 
He strictly warned him, and immediately sent him out, 
and said to him, “See you say nothing to anybody; instead, as a testimony to the people, go and let the priest examine you, and make an offer for your cleansing, as Moses Drawn out commanded.” 
But he went out, and began to proclaim it much, and to spread about the matter, so that Yeshua Salvation could no more openly enter into a city, but was outside in desert places: and they came to him from everywhere. 
