Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 38.
In those days was Hezekiah sick and near death. Isaiah Salvation of Yah the prophet, the son of Amoz, came to him, and said to him, “Adonai says, ‘Enjoin your house, set it in order, for you will die, and not live.’” 
Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to Adonai , 
and said, “Remember now, Adonai , I beg you, how I have walked before you in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in your sight.” Hezekiah wept bitterly. 
Then Adonai ’s word came to Isaiah Salvation of Yah, saying, 
“Go, and tell Hezekiah, ‘Adonai says, the God of David Beloved your father, “I have sh'ma ·heard obeyed· your prayer. I have seen your tears. Behold, I will add fifteen years to your life. 
I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria Level plain, and I will defend this city. 
This shall be the sign to you from Adonai , that Adonai will do this thing that he has spoken. 
Behold, I will cause the shadow on the sundial, which has gone down on the sundial of Ahaz with the sun, to make teshuvah ·complete return· backward ten steps. So the sun returned ten steps on the sundial on which it had gone down.”’” 
The writing of Hezekiah king of Judah Praised, when he had been sick, and had recovered of his sickness. 
I said, “In the middle of my life I go into the gates of Sheol ·Place of the dead·. I am deprived of the residue of my years.” 
I said, “I won’t see Yah, Yah in the land of the living. I will see man no more with the inhabitants of the world. 
My dwelling is removed, and is carried away from me like a shepherd’s tent. I have rolled up, like a weaver, my life. He will cut me off from the loom. From day even to night you will make an end of me. 
I waited patiently until morning. He breaks all my bones like a lion. From day even to night you will make an end of me. 
I chattered like a swallow or a crane. I moaned like a dove. My eyes weaken looking upward. Lord, I am oppressed. Be my security.” 
What will I say? He has both spoken to me, and himself has done it. I will walk carefully all my years because of the anguish of my soul. 
Lord, men live by these things; and my spirit finds life in all of them: you restore me, and cause me to live. 
Behold, for peace I had great anguish, but you have in chasak ·desire, to make bands· for my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption; for you have cast all my sins behind your back. 
For Sheol ·Place of the dead· can’t yadah ·extend hands in thankful praise· unto you. Death can’t celebrate you. Those who go down into the pit (of Abbadon, the unrighteous side of Sheol) can’t hope for your truth. 
The living, the living, he shall yadah ·extend hands in thankful praise· to you, as I do today. The father shall make known your truth to the children. 
Adonai will save me. Therefore we will sing my songs with stringed instruments all the days of our life in Adonai ’s house. 
Now Isaiah Salvation of Yah had said, “Let them take a cake of figs, and lay it for a poultice on the boil, and he shall recover.” 
Hezekiah also had said, “What is the sign that I will go up to Adonai ’s house?” 
