Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 45.
Then Joseph May he add couldn’t control himself before all those who stood before him, and he cried, “Cause everyone to go out from me!” No one else stood with him, while Joseph May he add made himself known to his brothers. 
He wept aloud. The Egyptians people from Abode of slavery sh'ma ·heard obeyed·, and the house of Pharaoh sh'ma ·heard obeyed·. 
Joseph May he add said to his brothers, “I am Joseph May he add! Does my father still live?” His brothers couldn’t answer him; for they were terrified at his presence. 
Joseph May he add said to his brothers, “Come near to me, please.” They came near. “He said, I am Joseph May he add, your brother, whom you sold into Egypt Abode of slavery. 
Now don’t be grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. 
For these two years the famine has been in the land, and there are yet five years, in which there will be no plowing and no harvest. 
God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant in the earth, and to save you alive by a great deliverance. (3) 
So now it was not you who sent me here, but God, and he has made me a father to Pharaoh, lord of all his house, and ruler over all the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. 
Hurry, and go up to my father, and tell him, ‘This is what your son Joseph May he add says, “God has made me lord of all Egypt Abode of slavery. Come down to me. Don’t wait. 
You shall dwell in the land of Goshen Drawing near, and you will be near to me, you, your children, your children’s children, your flocks, your herds, and all that you have. 
There I will nourish you; for there are yet five years of famine; lest you come to poverty, you, and your household, and all that you have.”’ 
Behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south, that it is my mouth that speaks to you. 
You shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt Abode of slavery, and of all that you have seen. You shall hurry and bring my father down here.” 
He fell on his brother Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south’s neck, and wept, and Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south wept on his neck. 
He kissed all his brothers, and wept on them. After that his brothers talked with him. 
The report of it was sh'ma ·heard obeyed· in Pharaoh’s house, saying, “Joseph May he add’s brothers have come.” It pleased Pharaoh well, and his servants. 
Pharaoh said to Joseph May he add, “Tell your brothers, ‘Do this. Load your animals, and go, travel to the land of Canaan Humbled. 
Take your father and your households, and come to me, and I will give you the good of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, and you will eat the fat of the land.’ (4) 
Now you are enjoined: do this. Take wagons out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your father, and come. 
Also, don’t concern yourselves about your belongings, for the good of all the land of Egypt Abode of slavery is yours.” 
The sons of Israel God prevails did so. Joseph May he add gave them wagons, according to the order of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for the way. 
He gave each one of them changes of clothing, but to Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south he gave three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of clothing. 
He sent the following to his father: ten donkeys loaded with the good things of Egypt Abode of slavery, and ten female donkeys loaded with grain and bread and provision for his father by the way. 
So he sent his brothers away, and they departed. He said to them, “See that you don’t quarrel on the way.” 
They went up out of Egypt Abode of slavery, and came into the land of Canaan Humbled, to Jacob Supplanter their father. 
They told him, saying, “Joseph May he add is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt Abode of slavery.” His heart fainted, for he didn’t believe them. 
They told him all the words of Joseph May he add, which he had said to them. When he saw the wagons which Joseph May he add had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob Supplanter, their father, revived. (5) 
Israel God prevails said, “It is enough. Joseph May he add my son is still alive. I will go and see him before I die.” 
