Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 6.
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh, for by a strong hand he shall let them go, and by a strong hand he shall divorce them out of his land.” 
God spoke to Moses Drawn out, and said to him, “I am Adonai ; 
and I appeared to Abraham Father of a multitude, to Isaac Laughter, and to Jacob Supplanter, as El Shaddai God Almighty; but by my name Adonai I was not known to them. 
I have also established my covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties· with them, to give them the land of Canaan Humbled, the land of their travels, in which they lived as aliens. 
Moreover I have sh'ma ·heard obeyed· the groaning of the children of Israel God prevails, whom the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery keep in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant. 
Therefore tell the children of Israel God prevails, ‘I am Adonai , and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm, and with great judgments: 
and I will take you to be my people, and I will be your God; and you shall know that I am Adonai your God, who brings you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery. 
I will bring you into the land which I swore to give to Abraham Father of a multitude, to Isaac Laughter, and to Jacob Supplanter; and I will give it to you for a heritage: I am Adonai .’” 
Moses Drawn out spoke so to the children of Israel God prevails, but they didn’t sh'ma ·hear obey· unto Moses Drawn out for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage. 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Go in, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt Abode of slavery, that he let the children of Israel God prevails go out of his land.” 
Moses Drawn out spoke before Adonai , saying, “Behold, the children of Israel God prevails haven’t sh'ma ·heard obeyed· unto me. How then shall Pharaoh listen to me, who am of uncircumcised lips?” 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out and to Aaron Light-bringer, and gave them a enjoin to the children of Israel God prevails, and to Pharaoh king of Egypt Abode of slavery, to bring the children of Israel God prevails out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. (2) 
These are the heads of their fathers’ houses. The sons of Reuben See, a son! the firstborn of Israel God prevails: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben See, a son!. 
The sons of Simeon Hearing: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul Asked for the son of a Canaanite Descendant of Humbled woman; these are the families of Simeon Hearing. 
These are the names of the sons of Levi United with according to their generations: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi United with were one hundred thirty-seven years. 
The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families. 
The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kohath were one hundred thirty-three years. 
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites Descendants of United with according to their generations. 
Amram took Jochebed his father’s sister to himself as wife; and she bore him Aaron Light-bringer and Moses Drawn out: and the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty-seven years. 
The sons of Izhar: Korach Bald one, Frost, and Nepheg, and Zichri. 
The sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri. 
Aaron Light-bringer took Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, as his wife; and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar Help of God and Ithamar. 
The sons of Korach Bald one, Frost: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites. 
Eleazar Help of God Aaron Light-bringer’s son took one of the daughters of Putiel as his wife; and she bore him Pinchas Bronze skin. These are the heads of the fathers’ houses of the Levites Descendants of United with according to their families. 
These are that Aaron Light-bringer and Moses Drawn out, to whom Adonai said, “Bring out the children of Israel God prevails from the land of Egypt Abode of slavery according to their armies.” 
These are those who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt Abode of slavery, to bring out the children of Israel God prevails from Egypt Abode of slavery. These are that Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer. 
On the day when Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, (3) 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, “I am Adonai . Speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt Abode of slavery all that I speak to you.” 
Moses Drawn out said before Adonai , “Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh sh'ma ·hear obey· unto me?” 
