Mark [Hammer].
Chapter 11.
When they came near to Jerusalem City of peace, to Bethsphage and Bethany House of affliction, at the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, 
and said to them, “Go your way into the village that is opposite you. Immediately as you enter into it, you will find a young donkey tied, on which no one has sat. Untie him, and bring him. 
If anyone asks you, ‘Why are you doing this?’ say, ‘The Lord needs him;’ and immediately he will send him back here.” 
They went away, and found a young donkey tied at the door outside in the open street, and they untied him. 
Some of those who stood there asked them, “What are you doing, untying the young donkey?” 
They said to them just as Yeshua Salvation had enjoined unto them, and they let them go. 
They brought the young donkey to Yeshua Salvation, and threw their garments on it, and Yeshua Salvation sat on it. 
Many people carpeted the road with their garments, while others spread out green branches which they had cut in the fields. 
Those who went in front, and those who followed, cried out, “ Hosanna! ·Save now!· Blessed is he who comes in the name of MarYah Master Yahweh! 
Blessed is the kingdom of Avinu ·our Father· David Beloved that is coming in the name of Adonai ! Hosanna ·Save now· in the highest!” 
Yeshua Salvation entered into the temple in Jerusalem City of peace. When he had looked around at everything, it being now evening, he went out to Bethany House of affliction with the twelve. 
The next day, when they had come out from Bethany House of affliction, he was hungry. 
Seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came to see if perhaps he might find anything on it. When he came to it, he found nothing but leaves, for it was not the season for figs. 
Yeshua Salvation told it, “May no one ever eat fruit from you again!” and his disciples heard it. 
They came to Jerusalem City of peace, and Yeshua Salvation entered into the temple, and began to throw out those who sold and those who bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money changers, and the seats of those who sold the doves. 
He would not allow anyone to carry a container through the temple. 
He taught, saying to them, “Is not it written in the Tanakh ·Torah Prophets Writings·, ‘My house will be called a house of prayer for all the nations?’ But you have made it a den of robbers!” 
The chief priests and the Torah-Teachers heard it, and sought how they might destroy him. For they feared him, because all the multitude was astonished at his teaching. 
When evening came, he went out of the city. 
As they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered away from the roots. 
Peter Rock, remembering, said to him, “Rabbi ·Teacher·, look! The fig tree which you cursed has withered away.” 
Yeshua Salvation answered them, “Have trusting faith in God. 
For most certainly I tell you, whoever may tell this mountain, ‘Be taken up and cast into the sea,’ and does not doubt in his heart, but believes that what he says is happening; he shall have whatever he says. 
Therefore I tell you, all things whatever you pray and ask for, believe that you have received them, and you shall have them. 
Whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone; so that 'Avikah ·your Father·, who is in heaven, may also forgive you your transgressions. 
But if you do not forgive, neither will 'Avikah shebashamayim ·your Father in Heaven· forgive your transgressions.” 
They came again to Jerusalem City of peace, and as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests, and the Torah-Teachers, and the elders came to him, 
and they began saying to him, “By what authority do you do these things? Or who gave you this authority to do these things?” 
Yeshua Salvation said to them, “I will ask you one question. Answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. 
The baptism of John— was it from heaven, or from men? Answer me.” 
They reasoned with themselves, saying, “If we should say, ‘From heaven;’ he will say, ‘Why then did you not believe him?’ 
If we should say, ‘From men’”— they feared the people, for all held John Yah is gracious to really be a prophet. 
They answered Yeshua Salvation, “We don’t know.” Yeshua Salvation said to them, “Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.” 
