Leviticus / Vayikra.
Chapter 27.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Speak to the children of Israel God prevails, and say to them, ‘When a man consecrates a person to Adonai in a vow, according to your valuation, 
your valuation of a male from twenty years old even to sixty years old shall be fifty shekels 1.25 lb; 0.57 kg of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary (the shekel is 0.4oz; 11.34 g). 
If she is a female, then your valuation shall be thirty shekels 12 oz; 3/4 lb; 340.2 g. 
If the person is from five years old even to twenty years old, then your valuation shall be for a male twenty shekels 8 oz; 1/2 lb; 226.8 g, and for a female ten shekels 4 oz; 113.4 g. 
If the person is from a month old even to five years old, then your valuation shall be for a male five shekels 2 oz; 56.7 g of silver, and for a female your valuation shall be three shekels of silver. 
If the person is from sixty years old and upward; if he is a male, then your valuation shall be fifteen shekels 6 oz; 170.1 g, and for a female ten shekels 4 oz; 113.4 g. 
But if he is poorer than your valuation, then he shall be set before the priest, and the priest shall assign a value to him. The priest shall assign a value according to his ability to pay. 
“‘If it is an animal, of which men offer an offering to Adonai , all that any man gives of such to Adonai becomes holy. 
He shall not alter it, nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good: and if he shall at all change animal for animal, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy. 
If it is any unclean animal, of which they do not offer as an offering to Adonai , then he shall set the animal before the priest; 
and the priest shall value it, whether it is good or bad. As you the priest values it, so shall it be. 
But if he will indeed redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of it to its valuation. 
“‘When a man dedicates his house to be holy to Adonai , then the priest shall evaluate it, whether it is good or bad: as the priest shall evaluate it, so shall it stand. 
If he who dedicates it will redeem his house, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your valuation to it, and it shall be his. (RY:7, LY:5) 
“‘If a man dedicates to Adonai part of the field of his possession, then your valuation shall be according to the seed for it. The sowing of a homer 6.33 bushels; 59 gal; 220 L of barley shall be valued at fifty shekels 1.25 lb; 0.57 kg of silver. 
If he dedicates his field from the Jubilee Year ·Shofar Year·, according to your valuation it shall stand. 
But if he dedicates his field after the Jubilee, then the priest shall reckon to him the money according to the years that remain to the Jubilee Year ·Shofar Year·; and an abatement shall be made from your valuation. 
If he who dedicated the field will indeed redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your valuation to it, and it shall remain his. 
If he will not redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more; 
but the field, when it goes out in the Jubilee, shall be holy to Adonai , as a devoted field. It shall be owned by the priests. (LY:6) 
“‘If he dedicates a field to Adonai which he has bought, which is not of the field of his possession, 
then the priest shall reckon to him the worth of your valuation up to the Jubilee Year ·Shofar Year·; and he shall give your valuation on that day, as a holy thing to Adonai . 
In the Jubilee Year ·Shofar Year· the field shall teshuvah ·completely return· to him from whom it was bought, even to him to whom the possession of the land belongs. 
All your valuations shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary: the shekel is 0.4oz; 11.34 g; or called twenty gerahs 20/50 of an oz. 
“‘Only the firstborn among animals, which is made a firstborn to Adonai , no man may dedicate it; whether an ox or sheep. It is Adonai ’s. 
If it is an unclean animal, then he shall buy it back according to your valuation, and shall add to it the fifth part of it; or if it is not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to your valuation. 
“‘Notwithstanding, no devoted thing, that a man shall devote to Adonai of all that he has, whether of man or animal, or of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed: every devoted thing is most holy to Adonai . (LY:7) 
“‘No one devoted, who shall be devoted from among men, shall be ransomed; he shall surely be put to death. 
“‘All the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the trees, is Adonai ’s. It is holy to Adonai . 
If a man redeems anything of his tithe, he shall add a fifth part to it. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
All the tithe of the herds or the flocks, whatever passes under the rod, the tenth shall be holy to Adonai . 
He shall not search whether it is good or bad, neither shall he change it. If he changes it at all, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy. It shall not be redeemed.’” 
These are the mitzvot ·instructions· which Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out for the children of Israel God prevails on Mount Sinai Thorn. 
