Luke [White-light].
Chapter 3.
Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar Ruler, Pontius Pilate Armed with javelin being governor of Judea Praise, and Herod Heroic being tetrarch (one of four co-emperors) of Galilee District, Circuit, and his brother Philip Loves horses tetrarch (one of four co-emperors) of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch (one of four co-emperors) of Abilene, 
in the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas Rock that hollows itself out, ha D'var Elohim · the Word of God· came to John Yah is gracious, the son of Zacharias Remembered by Yah, in the wilderness. 
He came into all the region around the Jordan Descender, preaching the baptism of teshuvah ·complete repentance· for remission of sins. 
As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah Salvation of Yah the prophet, “The voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘Make ready the way of MarYah Master Yahweh. Make his paths straight. 
Every valley will be filled. Every mountain and hill will be brought low. The crooked will become straight, and the rough ways smooth. 
Then all humanity will see God’s method of deliverance.’” 
He said therefore to the multitudes who went out to be baptized by him, “You offspring of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? 
Therefore produce fruits worthy of teshuvah ·complete repentance·, and don’t begin to say among yourselves, ‘We have Abraham Father of a multitude Avinu ·our Father·;’ for I tell you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham Father of a multitude from these stones! 
Even now the ax also lies at the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not produce good fruit is cut down, and thrown into the fire.” 
The multitudes asked him, “What then must we do?” 
He answered them, “He who has two coats, let him give to him who has none. He who has food, let him do likewise.” 
Tax collectors also came to be baptized, and they said to him, “Teacher, what must we do?” 
He said to them, “Collect no more than that which is appointed to you.” 
Soldiers also asked him, saying, “What about us? What must we do?” He said to them, “Extort from no one by violence, neither accuse anyone wrongfully. Be content with your wages.” 
As the people were in expectation, and all men reasoned in their hearts concerning John Yah is gracious, whether perhaps he was the Messiah Anointed one, 
John Yah is gracious answered them all, “I indeed baptize you with water, but he comes who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to loosen. He will baptize you in Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness and fire, 
whose fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor, and will gather the wheat into his barn; but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.” 
Then with many other exhortations he preached good news to the people, 
but Herod Heroic the tetrarch (one of four co-emperors), being reproved by him for Herodias, his brother’s wife, and for all the evil things which Herod Heroic had done, 
added this also to them all, that he shut up John Yah is gracious in prison. 
Now when all the people were baptized, Yeshua Salvation also had been baptized, and was praying. The sky was opened, 
and Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness descended in a bodily form like a dove on him; and a voice came out of the sky, saying “You are my agapetos ·beloved, esteemed· Son. In you I am well pleased.” 
Yeshua Salvation himself, when he began to teach, was about thirty years old, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph May he add, the son of Heli, 
the son of Matthat, the son of Levi United with, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph May he add, 
the son of Mattathias Gift of Yah, the son of Amos Burden bearor, the son of Nahum Comforter, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai, 
the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias Gift of Yah, the son of Semein, the son of Joseph May he add, the son of Judah Praised, 
the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri, 
the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmodam, the son of Er, 
the son of Jose, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi United with, 
the son of Simeon Hearing, the son of Judah Praised, the son of Joseph May he add, the son of Jonan, the son of Eliakim, 
the son of Melea, the son of Menan, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David Beloved, 
the son of Jesse My husband, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz In majesty, in strength, the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon, 
the son of Amminadab, the son of Aram Elevated, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah Praised, 
the son of Jacob Supplanter, the son of Isaac Laughter, the son of Abraham Father of a multitude, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor, 
the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah, 
the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem Name, the son of Noah Rest, the son of Lamech, 
the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan, 
the son of Enos, the son of Seth Appointed, the son of Adam Human, Red earth, the son of God. 
