Psalms [Praises].
Chapter 68.
Let God arise! Let his enemies be scattered! Let them who hate him also flee before him. 
As smoke is driven away, so drive them away. As wax melts before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God. 
But let the upright be glad. Let them rejoice before God. Yes, let them rejoice with gladness. 
Sing to God! Sing zahmar ·musical praise· to his name! Extol him who rides on the clouds: to Yah, his name! Rejoice before him! 
A father to orphans, and a defender of the widows, is God in his holy habitation. 
God sets the lonely in families. He brings out the prisoners with singing, but the rebellious dwell in a sun-scorched land. 
God, when you went out before your people, when you marched through the wilderness... Selah ·contemplation with musical interlude·. 
The earth trembled. The sky also poured down rain at the presence of the God of Sinai— at the presence of God, the God of Israel God prevails. 
You, God, sent a plentiful rain. You confirmed your inheritance, when it was weary. 
Your congregation lived therein. You, God, prepared your goodness for the poor. 
The Lord announced the word. The ones who proclaim it are a great company. 
“Kings of armies flee! They flee!” She who waits at home divides the plunder, 
while you sleep among the camp fires, the wings of a dove sheathed with silver, her feathers with shining gold. 
When Shaddai Almighty scattered kings in her, it snowed on Zalmon. 
The mountains of Bashan are majestic mountains. The mountains of Bashan are rugged. 
Why do you look in envy, you rugged mountains, at the mountain where God chooses to reign? Yes, Adonai will dwell there forever. 
The chariots of God are tens of thousands and thousands of thousands. The Lord is among them, from Sinai Thorn, into the sanctuary. 
You have ascended on high. You have led away captives. You have received gifts among men, yes, among the rebellious also, that Yah God might dwell there. 
Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears our burdens, even the God who is our yishu'ah ·salvation·. Selah ·contemplation with musical interlude·. 
God is to us a God of deliverance. To Adonai , the Lord, belongs escape from death. 
But God will strike through the head of his enemies, the hairy scalp of such a one as still continues in his guiltiness. 
The Lord said, “I will bring you again from Bashan, I will bring you again from the depths of the sea; 
That you may crush them, dipping your foot in blood, that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from your enemies.” 
They have seen your processions, God, even the processions of my God, my King, into the sanctuary. 
The singers went before, the minstrels followed after, among the ladies playing with tambourines, 
“Bless God in the congregations, even the Lord in the assembly of Israel God prevails!” 
There is little Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south, their ruler, the princes of Judah Praised, their council, the princes of Zebulun Living together, and the princes of Naphtali My wrestling. 
Your God has enjoined your strength. Strengthen, God, that which you have done for us. 
Because of your temple at Jerusalem City of peace, kings shall bring presents to you. 
Rebuke the wild animal of the reeds, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the peoples. Being humbled, may it bring bars of silver. Scatter the nations that delight in war. 
Princes shall come out of Egypt Abode of slavery. Ethiopia shall hurry to stretch out her hands to God. 
Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth! Sing zahmar ·musical praise· to Adonai! Selah ·contemplation with musical interlude·. 
To him who rides on the heaven of heavens, which are of old; behold, he utters his voice, a mighty voice. 
Ascribe strength to God! His excellency is over Israel God prevails, his strength is in the skies. 
You are awesome, God, in your sanctuaries. The God of Israel God prevails gives strength and power to his people. Praise be to God! 
