Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 36.
The heads of the fathers’ households of the family of the children of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh Causing to forget, of the families of the sons of Joseph May he add, came near, and spoke before Moses Drawn out, and before the princes, the heads of the fathers’ households of the children of Israel God prevails. 
They said, “Adonai enjoined my lord to give the land for inheritance by lot to the children of Israel God prevails. My lord was enjoined by Adonai to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters. 
If they are married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the children of Israel God prevails, then will their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of our fathers, and will be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they shall belong. So will it be taken away from the lot of our inheritance. 
When the Jubilee of the children of Israel God prevails shall be, then will their inheritance be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they shall belong. So their inheritance will be taken away from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.” 
Moses Drawn out enjoined the children of Israel God prevails according to Adonai ’s word, saying, “The tribe of the sons of Joseph May he add speaks right. 
This is the thing which Adonai does enjoin concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, ‘Let them be married to whom they think best; only they shall marry into the family of the tribe of their father. 
So shall no inheritance of the children of Israel God prevails move from tribe to tribe; for the children of Israel God prevails shall all keep the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers. 
Every daughter who possesses an inheritance in any tribe of the children of Israel God prevails shall be wife to one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the children of Israel God prevails may each possess the inheritance of his fathers. 
So shall no inheritance move from one tribe to another tribe; for the tribes of the children of Israel God prevails shall each keep his own inheritance.’” (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
The daughters of Zelophehad did as Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out: 
for Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Noah Rest, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married to their dod ·father’s· brothers’ sons. 
They were married into the families of the sons of Manasseh Causing to forget the son of Joseph May he add. Their inheritance remained in the tribe of the family of their father. 
These are the mitzvot ·instructions· and the judgments which Adonai enjoined by the hand of Moses Drawn out to the children of Israel God prevails in the plains of Moab From father by the Jordan Descender across from Jericho Fragrant, Moon. 
