John [Yah is gracious].
Chapter 21.
After these things, Yeshua Salvation revealed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias. He revealed himself this way. 
Simeon Peter Hearing Rock, Thomas Seeker of truth called Didymus Twin, Nathanael Given by God of Cana in Galilee District, Circuit, and the sons of Zebedee Bestowed by Yah, and two others of his disciples were together. 
Simeon Peter Hearing Rock said to them, “I’m going fishing.” They told him, “We are also coming with you.” They immediately went out, and entered into the boat. That night, they caught nothing. 
But when day had already come, Yeshua Salvation stood on the beach, yet the disciples didn’t know that it was Yeshua Salvation. 
Yeshua Salvation therefore said to them, “Children, have you anything to eat?” They answered him, “No.” 
He said to them, “Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some.” They cast it therefore, and now they were not able to draw it in for the multitude of fish. 
That disciple therefore whom Yeshua Salvation felt agapao ·totally devoted love· for said to Peter Rock, “It’s the Lord!” So when Simeon Peter Hearing Rock heard that it was the Lord, he wrapped his coat around him (for he was naked), and threw himself into the sea. 
But the other disciples came in the little boat (for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits away 300 ft; 914.4 m), dragging the net full of fish. 
So when they got out on the land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid on it, and bread. 
Yeshua Salvation said to them, “Bring some of the fish which you have just caught.” 
Simeon Peter Hearing Rock went up, and drew the net to land, full of great fish, one hundred fifty-three; and even though there were so many, the net was not torn. 
Yeshua Salvation said to them, “Come and eat breakfast.” None of the disciples dared inquire of him, “Who are you?” knowing that it was the Lord. 
Then Yeshua Salvation came and took the bread, gave it to them, and the fish likewise. 
This is now the third time that Yeshua Salvation was revealed to his disciples, after he had risen from the dead. 
So when they had eaten their breakfast, Yeshua Salvation said to Simeon Peter Hearing Rock, “Simeon Hearing, son of Jonah Dove, do you have agapao ·totally devoted love· for me more than these?” He said to him, “Yes, Lord; you know that I phileo ·affectionately love, have high regard for· you.” He said to him, “Feed my lambs.” 
He said to him again a second time, “Simeon Hearing, son of Jonah Dove, do you have agapao ·totally devoted love· for me?” He said to him, “Yes, Lord; you know that I phileo ·affectionately love, have high regard for· you.” He said to him, “Tend my sheep.” 
He said to him the third time, “Simeon Hearing, son of Jonah Dove, do you phileo ·affectionately love, have high regard for· me?” Peter Rock was grieved because he asked him the third time, “Do you phileo ·affectionately love, have high regard for· me?” He said to him, “Lord, you know everything. You know that I phileo ·affectionately love, have high regard for· you.” Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Feed my sheep. 
Most certainly I tell you, when you were young, you dressed yourself, and walked where you wanted to. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you, and carry you where you don’t want to go.” 
Now he said this, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. When he had said this, he said to him, “Follow me.” 
Then Peter Rock, turning around, saw a disciple following. This was the disciple whom Yeshua Salvation felt agapao ·totally devoted love· for, the one who had also leaned on Yeshua Salvation’s chest at the supper and asked, “Lord, who is going to betray You?” 
Peter Rock seeing him, said to Yeshua Salvation, “Lord, what about this man?” 
Yeshua Salvation said to him, “If I desire that he stay until I come, what is that to you? You follow me.” 
This saying therefore went out among the brothers, that this disciple wouldn’t die. Yet Yeshua Salvation didn’t say to him that he wouldn’t die, but, “If I desire that he stay until I come, what is that to you?” 
This is the disciple who testifies about these things, and wrote these things. We know that his witness is true. 
There are also many other things which Yeshua Salvation did, which if they would all be written, I suppose that even the world itself would not have room for the books that would be written. 
