Matthew [Gift of Yah].
Chapter 4.
Then Yeshua Salvation was led up by haRuach the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. 
When he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was hungry afterward. 
The tempter came and said to him, “If you are the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·, command that these stones become bread.” 
But he answered, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of Adonai .’” 
Then the devil took him into the holy city. He set him on the pinnacle of the temple, 
and said to him, “If you are the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·, throw yourself down, for it is written, ‘He will enjoin his angels unto you.’ And, ‘On their hands they will bear you up, so that you don’t dash your foot against a stone.’” 
Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Again, it is written, ‘You shall not test MarYah Master Yahweh, your God.’” 
Again, the devil took him to an exceedingly high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory. 
He said to him, “I will give you all of these things, if you will fall down and worship me.” 
Then Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Get behind me, Satan Adversary! For it is written, ‘You shall worship MarYah Master Yahweh your God, and you shall serve him only.’” 
Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and served him. 
Now when Yeshua Salvation heard that John Yah is gracious was delivered up, he withdrew into Galilee District, Circuit. 
Leaving Nazareth Branch, Separated one, he came and lived in Capernaum Village-Comfort, Village-Compassion, which is by the sea, in the region of Zebulun Living together and Naphtali My wrestling, 
that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah Salvation of Yah the prophet, saying, 
“The land of Zebulun Living together and the land of Naphtali My wrestling, toward the sea, beyond the Jordan Descender, Galil-of-the-Goyim District, Circuit of Non-Jews, 
the people who lived in darkness saw a great light, to those who live in the land of the shadow of death, to them light has dawned.” 
From that time, Yeshua Salvation began to preach, and to say, “ Teshuvah ·Turn repent·! For the Kingdom of Heaven (God) is at hand.” 
Walking by the sea of Galilee District, Circuit, he saw two brothers: Simeon Hearing, who is called Peter Rock, and Andrew Manly, his brother, casting a net into the sea; for they were fishermen. 
He said to them, “Come after me, and I will make you fishers for men.” 
They immediately left their nets and followed him. 
Going on from there, he saw two other brothers, James son of Zebedee Surplanter son of Yah Has Bestowed, and John Yah is gracious his brother, in the boat with Zebedee Bestowed by Yah their father, mending their nets. He called them. 
They immediately left the boat and their father, and followed him. 
Yeshua Salvation went about in all Galilee District, Circuit, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the Good News of the Kingdom, and healing every disease and every sickness among the people. 
The report about him went out into all Syria Elevated. They brought to him all who were sick, afflicted with various diseases and torments, possessed with demons, epileptics, and paralytics; and he healed them. 
Great multitudes from Galilee District, Circuit, Decapolis, Jerusalem City of peace, Judea Praise and from beyond the Jordan Descender followed him. 
