Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 27.
When Isaac Laughter was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau Hairy his elder son, and said to him, “My son?” He said to him, “Here I am.” 
He said, “See now, I am old. I don’t know the day of my death. 
Now therefore, please take your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and go out to the field, and take me venison. 
Make me savory food, such as I 'ahav ·affectionately love·, and bring it to me, that I may eat, and that my soul may bless you before I die.” 
Rebekah Securely bound sh'ma ·heard obeyed· when Isaac Laughter spoke to Esau Hairy his son. Esau Hairy went to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it. 
Rebekah Securely bound spoke to Jacob Supplanter her son, saying, “Behold, I sh'ma ·heard obeyed· your father speak to Esau Hairy your brother, saying, 
‘Bring me venison, and make me savory food, that I may eat, and bless you before Adonai before my death.’ 
Now therefore, my son, sh'ma ·hear obey· my voice according to that which I enjoin you. 
Go now to the flock, and get me from there two good young goats. I will make them savory food for your father, such as he 'ahav ·affectionately loves·. 
You shall bring it to your father, that he may eat, so that he may bless you before his death.” 
Jacob Supplanter said to Rebekah Securely bound his mother, “Behold, Esau Hairy my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man. 
What if my father touches me? I will seem to him as a deceiver, and I would bring a curse on myself, and not a blessing.” 
His mother said to him, “Let your curse be on me, my son. Only sh'ma ·hear obey· my voice, and go get them for me.” 
He went, and got them, and brought them to his mother. His mother made savory food, such as his father 'ahav ·affectionately loved·. 
Rebekah Securely bound took the good clothes of Esau Hairy, her elder son, which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob Supplanter, her younger son. 
She put the skins of the young goats on his hands, and on the smooth of his neck. 
She gave the savory food and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob Supplanter. 
He came to his father, and said, “My father?” He said, “Here I am. Who are you, my son?” 
Jacob Supplanter said to his father, “I am Esau Hairy your firstborn. I have done what you asked me to do. Please arise, sit and eat of my venison, that your soul may bless me.” 
Isaac Laughter said to his son, “How is it that you have found it so quickly, my son?” He said, “Because Adonai your God gave me success.” 
Isaac Laughter said to Jacob Supplanter, “Please come near, that I may feel you, my son, whether you are really my son Esau Hairy or not.” 
Jacob Supplanter went near to Isaac Laughter his father. He felt him, and said, “The voice is Jacob Supplanter’s voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau Hairy.” 
He didn’t recognize him, because his hands were hairy, like his brother, Esau Hairy’s hands. So he blessed him. 
He said, “Are you really my son Esau Hairy?” He said, “I am.” 
He said, “Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son’s venison, that my soul may bless you.” He brought it near to him, and he ate. He brought him wine, and he drank. 
His father Isaac Laughter said to him, “Come near now, and kiss me, my son.” 
He came near, and kissed him. He smelled the smell of his clothing, and blessed him, and said, “Behold, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which Adonai has blessed. (6) 
God give you of the dew of the sky, of the fatness of the earth, and plenty of grain and new wine. 
Let peoples serve you, and nations bow down to you. Be lord over your brothers. Let your mother’s sons bow down to you. Cursed be everyone who curses you. Blessed be everyone who blesses you.” 
As soon as Isaac Laughter had finished blessing Jacob Supplanter, and Jacob Supplanter had just gone out from the presence of Isaac Laughter his father, Esau Hairy his brother came in from his hunting. 
He also made savory food, and brought it to his father. He said to his father, “Let my father arise, and eat of his son’s venison, that your soul may bless me.” 
Isaac Laughter his father said to him, “Who are you?” He said, “I am your son, your firstborn, Esau Hairy.” 
Isaac Laughter trembled violently, and said, “Who, then, is he who has taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of all before you came, and have blessed him? Yes, he will be blessed.” 
When Esau Hairy sh'ma ·heard obeyed· the words of his father, he cried with an exceeding great and bitter cry, and said to his father, “Bless me, even me also, my father.” 
He said, “Your brother came with deceit, and has taken away your blessing.” 
He said, “Is not he rightly named Jacob Supplanter? For he has supplanted me these two times. He took away my birthright. See, now he has taken away my blessing.” He said, “Haven’t you reserved a blessing for me?” 
Isaac Laughter answered Esau Hairy, “Behold, I have made him your lord, and all his brothers have I given to him for servants. With grain and new wine have I sustained him. What then will I do for you, my son?” 
Esau Hairy said to his father, “Have you but one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, my father.” Esau Hairy lifted up his voice, and wept. 
Isaac Laughter his father answered him, “Behold, of the fatness of the earth will be your dwelling, and of the dew of the sky from above. 
By your sword will you live, and you will serve your brother. It will happen, when you will break loose, that you shall shake his yoke from off your neck.” 
Esau Hairy hated Jacob Supplanter because of the blessing with which his father blessed him. Esau Hairy said in his heart, “The days of mourning for my father are at hand. Then I will kill my brother Jacob Supplanter.” 
The words of Esau Hairy, her elder son, were told to Rebekah Securely bound. She sent and called Jacob Supplanter, her younger son, and said to him, “Behold, your brother Esau Hairy comforts himself about you by planning to kill you. 
Now therefore, my son, sh'ma ·hear obey· my voice. Arise, flee to Laban White, my brother, in Haran Mountaineer. 
Stay with him a few days, until your brother’s fury turns away; 
until your brother’s anger turn away from you, and he forgets what you have done to him. Then I will send, and get you from there. Why should I be bereaved of you both in one day?” 
Rebekah Securely bound said to Isaac Laughter, “I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth Trembling fear. If Jacob Supplanter takes a wife of the daughters of Heth Trembling fear, such as these, of the daughters of the land, what good will my life do me?” 
