Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 46.
Israel God prevails traveled with all that he had, and came to Be'er-Sheva Well of Seven, Well of an Oath, and offered sacrifices to the God of his father, Isaac Laughter. 
God spoke to Israel God prevails in the visions of the night, and said, “Jacob Supplanter, Jacob Supplanter!” He said, “Here I am.” 
He said, “I am God, the God of your father. Don’t be afraid to go down into Egypt Abode of slavery, for there I will make of you a great nation. 
I will go down with you into Egypt Abode of slavery. I will also surely bring you up again. Joseph May he add will close your eyes.” 
Jacob Supplanter rose up from Be'er-Sheva Well of Seven, Well of an Oath, and the sons of Israel God prevails carried Jacob Supplanter, their father, their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him. 
They took their livestock, and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan Humbled, and came into Egypt Abode of slavery— Jacob, and all his offspring with him, 
his sons, and his sons’ sons with him, his daughters, and his sons’ daughters, and he brought all his offspring with him into Egypt Abode of slavery. 
These are the names of the children of Israel God prevails, who came into Egypt Abode of slavery, Jacob Supplanter and his sons: Reuben See, a son!, Jacob Supplanter’s firstborn. 
The sons of Reuben See, a son!: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. 
The sons of Simeon Hearing: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul Asked for the son of a Canaanite Descendant of Humbled woman. 
The sons of Levi United with: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
The sons of Judah Praised: Er, Onan, Shelah, Perez, and Zerah; but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan Humbled. The sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul. 
The sons of Issachar Hire, Reward: Tola, Puvah, Job Persecuted, and Shimron. 
The sons of Zebulun Living together: Sered, Elon, and Jahleel. 
These are the sons of Leah Weary, whom she bore to Jacob Supplanter in Paddan Aram Elevated, with his daughter Dinah. All the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty-three. 
The sons of Gad Good fortune: Ziphion, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi, and Areli. 
The sons of Asher Happy: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, and Serah their sister. The sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel. 
These are the sons of Zilpah Frailty, whom Laban White gave to Leah Weary, his daughter, and these she bore to Jacob Supplanter, even sixteen souls. 
The sons of Rachel Ewe sheep, Jacob Supplanter’s wife: Joseph May he add and Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south. 
To Joseph May he add in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery were born Manasseh Causing to forget and Ephraim Fruit, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, priest of On, bore to him. 
The sons of Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south: Bela, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim, and Ard. 
These are the sons of Rachel Ewe sheep, who were born to Jacob Supplanter: all the souls were fourteen. 
The son of Dan He judged: Hushim. 
The sons of Naphtali My wrestling: Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem. 
These are the sons of Bilhah Bashful, whom Laban White gave to Rachel Ewe sheep, his daughter, and these she bore to Jacob Supplanter: all the souls were seven. 
All the souls who came with Jacob Supplanter into Egypt Abode of slavery, who were his direct offspring, besides Jacob Supplanter’s sons’ wives, all the souls were sixty-six. 
The sons of Joseph May he add, who were born to him in Egypt Abode of slavery, were two souls. All the souls of the house of Jacob Supplanter, who came into Egypt Abode of slavery, were seventy. (6) 
He sent Judah Praised before him to Joseph May he add, to show the way before him to Goshen Drawing near, and they came into the land of Goshen Drawing near. 
Joseph May he add prepared his chariot, and went up to meet Israel God prevails, his father, in Goshen Drawing near. He presented himself to him, and fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while. 
Israel God prevails said to Joseph May he add, “Now let me die, since I have seen your face, that you are still alive.” 
Joseph May he add said to his brothers, and to his father’s house, “I will go up, and speak with Pharaoh, and will tell him, ‘My brothers, and my father’s house, who were in the land of Canaan Humbled, have come to me. 
These men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of livestock, and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have.’ 
It will happen, when Pharaoh summons you, and will say, ‘What is your occupation?’ 
that you shall say, ‘Your servants have been keepers of livestock from our youth even until now, both we, and our fathers:’ that you may dwell in the land of Goshen Drawing near; for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery.” 
