Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 22.
After these things, God tested Abraham Father of a multitude, and said to him, “Abraham Father of a multitude!” He said, “Here I am.” 
He said, “Now take your son, your only son, whom you 'ahavta ·affectionately love·, even Isaac Laughter, and go into the land of Moriah. Offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains which I will tell you of.” 
Abraham Father of a multitude rose early in the morning, and saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac Laughter his son. He split the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went to the place of which God had told him. 
On the third day Abraham Father of a multitude lifted up his eyes, and saw the place far off. 
Abraham Father of a multitude said to his young men, “Stay here with the donkey. The boy and I will go yonder. We will hawa ·bow low, prostrate· in worship, and come back to you.” 
Abraham Father of a multitude took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac Laughter his son. He took in his hand the fire and the knife. They both went together. 
Isaac Laughter spoke to Abraham Father of a multitude his father, and said, “My father?” He said, “Here I am, my son.” He said, “Here is the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?” 
Abraham Father of a multitude said, “God will provide himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son.” So they both went together. 
They came to the place which God had told him of. Abraham Father of a multitude built the altar there, and laid the wood in order, bound Isaac Laughter his son, and laid him on the altar, on the wood. 
Abraham Father of a multitude stretched out his hand, and took the knife to kill his son. 
Ha mal'ak Yahweh The Angel of He sustains breathing called to him out of the sky, and said, “Abraham, Abraham! Father of a multitude, Father of a multitude!” He said, “Here I am.” 
He said, “Don’t lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him. For now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me.” 
Abraham Father of a multitude lifted up his eyes, and looked, and saw that behind him was a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. Abraham Father of a multitude went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering instead of his son. 
Abraham Father of a multitude called the name of that place Yahweh Yeer'eh Yahweh will be seen / He sustains breathing will provide. As it is said to this day, “On Adonai ’s mountain, it will be provided.” 
Ha mal'ak Yahweh The Angel of He sustains breathing called to Abraham Father of a multitude a second time out of the sky, 
and said, “I have sworn by myself, says Adonai , because you have done this thing, and have not withheld your son, your only son, 
I will bless you greatly, and I will multiply your offspring greatly like the stars of the heavens, and like the sand which is on the seashore. Your offspring will possess the gate of his enemies. 
By your offspring, all the nations of the earth will be blessed because you have sh'ma ·heard obeyed· my voice.” 
So Abraham Father of a multitude returned to his young men, and they rose up and went together to Be'er-Sheva Well of Seven, Well of an Oath. Abraham Father of a multitude lived at Be'er-Sheva Well of Seven, Well of an Oath. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
After these things, Abraham Father of a multitude was told, “Behold, Milcah, she also has borne children to your brother Nahor: 
Uz his firstborn, Buz his brother, Kemuel the father of Aram Elevated, 
Chesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph, and Bethuel.” 
Bethuel became the father of Rebekah Securely bound. These eight Milcah bore to Nahor, Abraham Father of a multitude’s brother. 
His concubine, whose name was Reumah, also bore Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Maacah. 
