Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 29.
These are the words of the covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties· which Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out to make with the children of Israel God prevails in the land of Moab From father, in addition to the covenant which he made with them in Horeb Desert. (7) 
Moses Drawn out called to all Israel God prevails, and said to them: Your eyes have seen all that Adonai did in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land; 
the great trials which your eyes saw, the signs, and those great wonders. 
But Adonai has not given you a heart to know, eyes to see, and ears to sh'ma ·hear obey·, to this day. 
I have led you forty years in the wilderness. Your clothes have not grown old on you, and your shoes have not grown old on your feet. 
You have not eaten bread, neither have you drunk wine or strong drink; that you may know that I am Adonai your God. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
When you came to this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, came out against us to battle, and we struck them. 
We took their land, and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of the Manassites. 
Therefore keep the words of this covenant and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do. 
All of you stand today in the presence of Adonai your God; your heads, your tribes, your elders, and your officers, even all the men of Israel God prevails, 
your little ones, your wives, and the foreigners who are in the middle of your camps, from the one who cuts your wood to the one who draws your water; 
that you may enter into the covenant of Adonai your God, and into his oath, which Adonai your God makes with you today; (LY:2) 
that he may establish you today as his people, and that he may be your God, as he spoke to you, and as he swore to your fathers, to Abraham Father of a multitude, to Isaac Laughter, and to Jacob Supplanter. 
Neither do I make this covenant and this oath with you only, 
but with those who stand here with us today before Yahweh Eloheikhem Yahweh our God, and also with those who are not here with us today (LY:3) 
(for you know how we lived in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, and how we came through the middle of the nations through which you passed; 
and you have seen their detestable things and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them); 
lest there should be among you man, woman, family, or tribe whose heart turns away today from Yahweh Eloheikhem Yahweh our God, to go to abad ·serve· the deities of those nations; lest there should be among you a root that produces bitter poison; 
and it happen, when he sh'ma ·hears obeys· the words of this curse, that he bless himself in his heart, saying, “I shall have peace, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart, to destroy the moist with the dry.” 
Adonai will not pardon him, but then Adonai ’s anger and his jealousy will smoke against that man, and all the curse that is written in this book will fall on him, and Adonai will blot out his name from under the sky. 
Adonai will set him apart for evil out of all the tribes of Israel God prevails, according to all the curses of the covenant that is written in this book of the Torah ·Teaching·. 
The generation to come, your children who will rise up after you, and the foreigner who will come from a far land, will say, when they see the plagues of that land, and the sicknesses with which Adonai has made it sick; 
and that all of its land is sulfur, salt, and burning, that it is not sown, does not produce, nor does any grass grow in it, like the overthrow of Sodom Burning, Gomorrah Rebellious people, Tyrants, Admah, and Zeboiim, which Adonai overthrew in his anger, and in his wrath; 
even all the nations will say, “Why has Adonai done thus to this land? What does the heat of this great anger mean?” 
Then men will say, “Because they abandoned the covenant of Adonai , the God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, 
and went and abad ·served· other deities, and hawa ·bowed low, prostrated· in worship them, deities that they didn’t know, and that he had not given to them. 
Therefore Adonai ’s anger burned against this land, to bring on it all the curses that are written in this book. 
Adonai rooted them out of their land in anger, in wrath, and in great indignation, and thrust them into another land, as it is today.” 
The secret things belong to Yahweh Eloheikhem Yahweh our God; but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this Torah ·Teaching·. 
