Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 3.
Now Moses Drawn out was keeping the flock of Jethro Abundance, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian Strife, and he led the flock to the back of the wilderness, and came to God’s mountain, to Horeb Desert. 
Ha mal'ak Yahweh The Angel of He sustains breathing appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the middle of a bush. He looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. 
Moses Drawn out said, “I will turn aside now and see this great sight; why the bush is not being burned up?” 
When Adonai saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him out of the middle of the bush, and said, “Moses Drawn out! Moses Drawn out!” He said, “Here I am.” 
He said, “Don’t come close. Take your sandals off of your feet, for the place you are standing on is holy ground.” 
Moreover he said, “I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham Father of a multitude, the God of Isaac Laughter, and the God of Jacob Supplanter.” Moses Drawn out hid his face; for he was afraid to look at God. 
Adonai said, “I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt Abode of slavery, and have sh'ma ·heard obeyed· their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows. 
I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery, and to bring them up out of that land to a good and large land, to a land flowing with milk and honey; to the place of the Canaanite Descendant of Humbled, the Hittite Descendant of Trembling fear, the Amorite Descendants of Talkers, the Perizzite Descendant of Belonging to village, the Hivite Wicked, and the Jebusite Descendants of Thresher. 
Now, behold, the cry of the children of Israel God prevails has come to me. Moreover I have seen the oppression with which the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery oppress them. 
Come now therefore, and I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring my people, the children of Israel God prevails, out of Egypt Abode of slavery.” 
Moses Drawn out said to God, “Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh, and that I should bring the children of Israel God prevails out of Egypt Abode of slavery?” 
He said, “Certainly I will be with you. This will be the token to you, that I have sent you: when you have brought the people out of Egypt Abode of slavery, you shall abad ·serve· God on this mountain.” 
Moses Drawn out said to God, “Behold, when I come to the children of Israel God prevails, and tell them, ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to you;’ and they ask me, ‘What is his name?’ What should I tell them?” 
God said to Moses Drawn out, “I Am Who I Am ,” and he said, “You shall tell the children of Israel God prevails this: ‘I AM has sent me to you.’” 
God said moreover to Moses Drawn out, “You shall tell the children of Israel God prevails this, ‘Adonai , the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham Father of a multitude, the God of Isaac Laughter, and the God of Jacob Supplanter, has sent me to you.’ This is my name forever, and this is my memorial to all generations. (5) 
Go, and gather the elders of Israel God prevails together, and tell them, ‘Adonai , the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham Father of a multitude, of Isaac Laughter, and of Jacob Supplanter, has appeared to me, saying, “I have surely visited you, and seen that which is done to you in Egypt Abode of slavery; 
and I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt Abode of slavery to the land of the Canaanite Descendant of Humbled, the Hittite Descendant of Trembling fear, the Amorite Descendants of Talkers, the Perizzite Descendant of Belonging to village, the Hivite Wicked, and the Jebusite Descendants of Thresher, to a land flowing with milk and honey.”’ 
They will sh'ma ·hear obey· your voice, and you shall come, you and the elders of Israel God prevails, to the king of Egypt Abode of slavery, and you shall tell him, ‘Adonai , the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. Now please let us go three days’ journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to Adonai , our God.’ 
I know that the king of Egypt Abode of slavery won’t give you permission to go, no, not by a mighty hand. 
I will reach out my hand and strike Egypt Abode of slavery with all my wonders which I will do among them, and after that he will let you go. 
I will give this people chen ·grace· in the sight of the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery, and it will happen that when you go, you shall not go empty handed. 
But every woman shall ask of her neighbor, and of her who visits her house, jewels of silver, jewels of gold, and clothing; and you shall put them on your sons, and on your daughters. You shall plunder the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery.” 
