Psalms [Praises].
Chapter 59.
Deliver me from my enemies, my God. Set me on high from those who rise up against me. 
Deliver me from the workers of iniquity. Save me from the bloodthirsty men. 
For, behold, they lie in wait for my soul. The mighty gather themselves together against me, not for my disobedience, nor for my sin, Adonai . 
I have done no wrong, yet they are ready to attack me. Rise up, behold, and help me! 
You, Adonai Elohei Tzva'ot Yahweh God Commander of heaven’s armies, the God of Israel God prevails, rouse yourself to punish the nations. Show no mercy to the wicked traitors. Selah ·contemplation with musical interlude·. 
They teshuvah ·completely return· at evening, howling like dogs, and prowl around the city. 
Behold, they spew with their mouth. Swords are in their lips, “For,” they say, “who sh'ma ·hears obeys· us?” 
But you, Adonai , laugh at them. You scoff at all the nations. 
Oh, my Strength, I watch for you, for God is my high tower. 
My God will go before me with his cheshed ·loving-kindness·. God will let me look at my enemies in triumph. 
Don’t kill them, or my people may forget. Scatter them by your power, and bring them down, Lord our shield. 
For the sin of their mouth, and the words of their lips, let them be caught in their pride, for the curses and lies which they utter. 
Consume them in wrath. Consume them, and they will be no more. Let them know that God rules in Jacob Supplanter, to the ends of the earth. Selah ·contemplation with musical interlude·. 
At evening let them teshuvah ·completely return·. Let them howl like a dog, and go around the city. 
They shall wander up and down for food, and wait all night if they are not satisfied. 
But I will sing of your strength. Yes, I will sing aloud of your cheshed ·loving-kindness· in the morning. For you have been my high tower, a refuge in the day of my distress. 
To you, my strength, I will sing zahmar ·musical praise·. For God is my high tower, the God of my cheshed ·loving-kindness·. 
