Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 31.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Behold, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah Praised: 
and I have filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all kinds of workmanship, 
to devise skillful works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in bronze, 
and in cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, to work in all kinds of workmanship. 
Behold, I myself have appointed with him Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan He judged; and in the heart of all who are wise-hearted I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have enjoined you: 
the Tent of Meeting, the ark of the testimony, the mercy seat that is on it, all the furniture of the Tent, 
the table and its utensils, the pure menorah ·lamp· with all its utensils, the altar of incense, 
the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, the basin and its base, 
the finely worked garments— the holy garments for Aaron Light-bringer the priest— the garments of his sons to minister in the priest’s office, 
the anointing oil, and the incense of sweet spices for the holy place: according to all that I have enjoined you they shall do.” 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Speak also to the children of Israel God prevails, saying, ‘Most certainly you shall keep my Sabbaths: for it is a sign between me and you throughout all your generations; that you may know that I am Yahweh M’Kaddesh Yahweh our Santifier / He sustains breathing who makes you holy. 
You shall keep the Sabbath ·To cease· therefore; for it is holy to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people. 
Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath ·To cease· of solemn rest, holy to Adonai . Whoever does any work on the Sabbath ·To cease· day shall surely be put to death. 
Therefore the children of Israel God prevails shall keep the Sabbath ·To cease·, to observe the Sabbath ·To cease· throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties·. 
It is a sign between me and the children of Israel God prevails forever; for in six days Adonai made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested, and was refreshed.’” (2) 
He gave to Moses Drawn out, when he finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai Thorn, the two tablets of the testimony, stone tablets, written with the finger of God. 
