Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 32.
Jacob Supplanter went on his way, and the angels of God met him. 
When he saw them, Jacob Supplanter said, “This is God’s army.” He called the name of that place Mahanaim Two camps. 
Jacob Supplanter sent messengers in front of him to Esau Hairy, his brother, to the land of Seir, the field of Edom Red. 
He enjoined them, saying, “This is what you shall tell my lord, Esau Hairy: ‘This is what your servant, Jacob Supplanter, says. I have lived as a foreigner with Laban White, and stayed until now. 
I have cattle, donkeys, flocks, male servants, and female servants. I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find chen ·grace· in your sight.’” 
The messengers returned to Jacob Supplanter, saying, “We came to your brother Esau Hairy. Not only that, but he comes to meet you, and four hundred men with him.” 
Then Jacob Supplanter was greatly afraid and was distressed. He divided the people who were with him, and the flocks, and the herds, and the camels, into two companies; 
and he said, “If Esau Hairy comes to the one company, and strikes it, then the company which is left will escape.” 
Jacob Supplanter said, “God of my father Abraham Father of a multitude, and God of my father Isaac Laughter, Adonai , who said to me, ‘Teshuvah ·Completely return· to your country, and to your relatives, and I will do you good,’ 
I am not worthy of the least of all the cheshed ·loving-kindnesses·, and of all the truth, which you have shown to your servant; for with just my staff I crossed over this Jordan Descender; and now I have become two companies. 
Please deliver me from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau Hairy: for I fear him, lest he come and strike me, and the mothers with the children. 
You said, ‘I will surely do you good, and make your offspring as the sand of the sea, which can’t be counted because there are so many.’” (2) 
He stayed there that night, and took from that which he had with him, a present for Esau Hairy, his brother: 
two hundred female goats and twenty male goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams, 
thirty milk camels and their colts, forty cows, ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten foals. 
He delivered them into the hands of his servants, every herd by itself, and said to his servants, “Pass over before me, and put a space between herd and herd.” 
He enjoined the foremost, saying, “When Esau Hairy, my brother, meets you, and asks you, saying, ‘Whose are you? Where are you going? Whose are these before you?’ 
Then you shall say, ‘They are your servant, Jacob Supplanter’s. It is a present sent to my lord, Esau Hairy. Behold, he also is behind us.’” 
He enjoined also the second, and the third, and all that followed the herds, saying, “This is how you shall speak to Esau Hairy, when you find him. 
You shall say, ‘Not only that, but behold, your servant, Jacob Supplanter, is behind us.’” For, he said, “I will appease him with the present that goes before me, and afterward I will see his face. Perhaps he will accept me.” 
So the present passed over before him, and he himself stayed that night in the camp. 
He rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two servants, and his eleven sons, and crossed over the ford of the Jabbok. 
He took them, and sent them over the stream, and sent over that which he had. 
Jacob Supplanter was left alone, and wrestled with a man there until the breaking of the day. 
When he saw that he didn’t prevail against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob Supplanter’s thigh was strained, as he wrestled. 
The man said, “Let me go, for the day breaks.” Jacob Supplanter said, “I won’t let you go, unless you bless me.” 
He said to him, “What is your name?” He said, “Jacob Supplanter”. 
He said, “Your name will no longer be called Jacob Supplanter, but Israel God prevails; for you have fought with God and with men, and have prevailed.” 
Jacob Supplanter asked him, “Please tell me your name.” He said, “Why is it that you ask what my name is?” and he blessed him there. (3) 
Jacob Supplanter called the name of the place Peniel: for, he said, “I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.” 
The sun rose on him as he passed over Peniel, and he limped because of his thigh. 
Therefore the children of Israel God prevails don’t eat the sinew of the hip, which is on the hollow of the thigh, to this day, because he touched the hollow of Jacob Supplanter’s thigh in the sinew of the hip. 
