Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 8.
You shall observe to do all the mitzvot ·instructions· which I enjoin you today, that you may live, and multiply, and go in and possess the land which Adonai swore to your fathers. 
You shall remember all the way which Adonai your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble you, to prove you, to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his mitzvot ·instructions·, or not. 
He humbled you, and allowed you to be hungry, and fed you with manna ·what is it·, which you didn’t know, neither did your fathers know; that he might teach you that man does not live by bread only, but man lives by every d'var ·word· that proceeds out of Adonai ’s mouth. 
Your clothing didn’t grow old on you, neither did your foot swell, these forty years. 
You shall consider in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, so Adonai your God disciplines you. 
You shall keep the mitzvot ·instructions· of Adonai your God, to walk in his ways, and to fear him. 
For Adonai your God brings you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of springs, and underground water flowing into valleys and hills; 
a land of wheat and barley, and vines and fig trees and pomegranates; a land of olive trees and honey; 
a land in which you shall eat bread without scarceness, you shall not lack anything in it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills you may dig copper. 
You shall eat and be full, and you shall bless Adonai your God for the good land which he has given you. (2) 
Beware lest you forget Adonai your God, in not keeping his mitzvot ·instructions·, and his judgments, and his statutes, which I enjoin you today; 
lest, when you have eaten and are full, and have built fine houses, and lived in them; 
and when your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and your gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied; 
then your heart might be lifted up, and you forget Adonai your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, out of the house of bondage; 
who led you through the great and terrible wilderness, with fiery serpents and scorpions, and thirsty ground where there was no water; who poured water for you out of the rock of flint; 
who fed you in the wilderness with manna ·what is it·, which your fathers didn’t know; that he might humble you, and that he might prove you, to do you good at your latter end: 
and lest you say in your heart, “My power and the might of my hand has gotten me this wealth.” 
But you shall remember Adonai your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth; that he may establish his covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties· which he swore to your fathers, as it is today. 
It shall be, if you shall forget Adonai your God, and walk after other deities, and abad ·serve· them, and hawa ·bow low, prostrate· to worship them, I testify against you today that you shall surely perish. 
As the nations that Adonai makes to perish before you, so you shall perish; because you wouldn’t sh'ma ·hear obey· Adonai your God’s voice. 
