John [Yah is gracious].
Chapter 4.
Therefore when the Lord knew that the Pharisees Separated had heard that Yeshua Salvation was making and baptizing more disciples than John Yah is gracious 
(although Yeshua Salvation himself didn’t baptize, but his disciples), 
he left Judea Praise, and departed into Galilee District, Circuit. 
He needed to pass through Samaria Watch-mountain. 
So he came to a city of Samaria Watch-mountain, called Sychar Shoulder, near the parcel of ground that Jacob Supplanter gave to his son, Joseph May he add. 
Jacob Supplanter’s well was there. Yeshua Salvation therefore, being tired from his journey, sat down by the well. It was about noon. 
A woman of Samaria Watch-mountain came to draw water. Yeshua Salvation said to her, “Give me a drink.” 
For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. 
The Samaritan person from Watch-mountain woman therefore said to him, “How is it that you, being a Jew Praiser, ask for a drink from me, a Samaritan person from Watch-mountain woman?” (For Jews Praisers have no dealings with Samaritans people from Watch-mountain.) 
Yeshua Salvation answered her, “If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, ‘Give me a drink,’ you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water.” 
The woman said to him, “Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. So where do you get that living water? 
Are you greater than Avinu ·our Father·, Jacob Supplanter, who gave us the well, and drank of it himself, as did his children, and his livestock?” 
Yeshua Salvation answered her, “Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again, 
but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never thirst again; but the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life.” 
The woman said to him, “Sir, give me this water, so that I don’t get thirsty, neither come all the way here to draw.” 
Yeshua Salvation said to her, “Go, call your husband, and come here.” 
The woman answered, “I have no husband.” Yeshua Salvation said to her, “You said well, ‘I have no husband,’ 
for you have had five husbands; and he whom you now have is not your husband. This you have said truly.” 
The woman said to him, “Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. 
Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and you Jews Praisers say that in Jerusalem City of peace is the place where people ought to worship.” 
Yeshua Salvation said to her, “Woman, believe me, the time will come, when neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem City of peace, will you worship Abba Father. 
You worship that which you don’t know. We worship that which we know; for yishu'ah ·salvation· is from the Jews Praisers. 
But the time will come, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship Abba Father in spirit and truth, for Abba Father seeks such to be his worshipers. 
God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth.” 
The woman said to him, “I know that Messiah Anointed one comes, he who is called Messiah Anointed one. When he has come, he will declare to us all things.” 
Yeshua Salvation said to her, “Ena Na I AM (the Living God), I who is speaking to you.” 
At this, his disciples came. They marveled that he was speaking with a woman; yet no one said, “What are you looking for?” or, “Why do you speak with her?” 
So the woman left her water pot, and went away into the city, and said to the people, 
“Come, see a man who told me everything that I did. Can this be the Messiah Anointed one?” 
They went out of the city, and were coming to him. 
In the meanwhile, the disciples urged him, saying, “Rabbi ·Teacher·, eat.” 
But he said to them, “I have food to eat that you don’t know about.” 
The disciples therefore said to one another, “Has anyone brought him something to eat?” 
Yeshua Salvation said to them, “My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to accomplish his work. 
Don’t you say, ‘There are yet four months until the harvest?’ Behold, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and look at the fields, that they are white for harvest already. 
He who reaps receives wages, and gathers fruit to eternal life; that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together. 
For in this the saying is true, ‘One sows, and another reaps.’ 
I sent you to reap that for which you haven’t labored. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor.” 
From that city many of the Samaritans people from Watch-mountain believed in him because of the word of the woman, who testified, “He told me everything that I did.” 
So when the Samaritans people from Watch-mountain came to him, they begged him to stay with them. He stayed there two days. 
Many more believed because of his word. 
They said to the woman, “Now we believe, not because of your speaking; for we have heard for ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Messiah Anointed one, the Savior of the world.” 
After the two days he went out from there and went into Galilee District, Circuit. 
For Yeshua Salvation himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country. 
So when he came into Galilee District, Circuit, the Galileans received him, having seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem City of peace at the feast, for they also went to the feast. 
Yeshua Salvation came therefore again to Cana of Galilee District, Circuit, where he made the water into wine. There was a certain nobleman whose son was sick at Capernaum Village-Comfort, Village-Compassion. 
When he heard that Yeshua Salvation had come out of Judea Praise into Galilee District, Circuit, he went to him, and begged him that he would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. 
Yeshua Salvation therefore said to him, “Unless you see signs and wonders, you will in no way believe.” 
The nobleman said to him, “Sir, come down before my child dies.” 
Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Go your way. Your son lives.” The man believed the word that Yeshua Salvation spoke to him, and he went his way. 
As he was now going down, his servants met him and reported, saying “Your child lives!” 
So he inquired of them the hour when he began to get better. They said therefore to him, “Yesterday at one o'clock in the afternoon, the fever left him.” 
So the Abba Father knew that it was at that hour in which Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Your son lives.” He believed, as did his whole house. 
This is again the second sign that Yeshua Salvation did, having come out of Judea Praise into Galilee District, Circuit. 
