Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 14.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Speak to the children of Israel God prevails, that they turn back and encamp before Pihahiroth, between Migdol and the sea, before Baal Zephon. You shall encamp opposite it by the sea. 
Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel God prevails, ‘They are entangled in the land. The wilderness has shut them in.’ 
I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and he will follow after them; and I will get honor over Pharaoh, and over all his armies; and the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery shall know that I am Adonai .” They did so. 
The king of Egypt Abode of slavery was told that the people had fled; and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was changed towards the people, and they said, “What is this we have done, that we have let Israel God prevails go from serving us?” 
He prepared his chariot, and took his army with him; 
and he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt Abode of slavery, and captains over all them. 
Adonai hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt Abode of slavery, and he pursued the children of Israel God prevails; for the children of Israel God prevails went out with a high hand. (2) 
The Egyptians people from Abode of slavery pursued them. All the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, his horsemen, and his army overtook them encamping by the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baal Zephon. 
When Pharaoh came near, the children of Israel God prevails lifted up their eyes, and behold, the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery were marching after them; and they were very afraid. The children of Israel God prevails cried out to Adonai . 
They said to Moses Drawn out, “Because there were no graves in Egypt Abode of slavery, have you taken us away to die in the wilderness? Why have you treated us this way, to bring us out of Egypt Abode of slavery? 
Is not this the word that we spoke to you in Egypt Abode of slavery, saying, ‘Leave us alone, that we may abad ·serve· the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery?’ For it were better for us to abad ·serve· the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery, than that we should die in the wilderness.” 
Moses Drawn out said to the people, “Don’t be afraid. Stand still, and see the yishu'ah ·salvation· of Adonai , which he will work for you today: for the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery whom you have seen today, you shall never see them again. 
Adonai will fight for you, and you shall be still.” (A:3) 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Why do you cry to me? Speak to the children of Israel God prevails, that they go forward. 
Lift up your rod, and stretch out your hand over the sea, and divide it: and the children of Israel God prevails shall go into the middle of the sea on dry ground. 
Behold, I myself will harden the hearts of the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery, and they shall go in after them: and I will get myself honor over Pharaoh, and over all his armies, over his chariots, and over his horsemen. 
The Egyptians people from Abode of slavery shall know that I am Adonai , when I have gotten myself honor over Pharaoh, over his chariots, and over his horsemen.” 
Ha mal'ak Elohim The Angel of God, who went before the camp of Israel God prevails, moved and went behind them; and the pillar of cloud moved from before them, and stood behind them. 
It came between the camp of Egypt Abode of slavery and the camp of Israel God prevails; and there was the cloud and the darkness, yet gave it light by night: and one didn’t come near the other all night. 
Moses Drawn out stretched out his hand over the sea, and Adonai caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all night, and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided. 
The children of Israel God prevails went into the middle of the sea on the dry ground, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand, and on their left. 
The Egyptians people from Abode of slavery pursued, and went in after them into the middle of the sea: all of Pharaoh’s horses, his chariots, and his horsemen. 
In the morning watch, Adonai looked out on the Egyptian person from Abode of slavery army through the pillar of fire and of cloud, and confused the Egyptian person from Abode of slavery army. 
He took off their chariot wheels, and they drove them heavily; so that the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery said, “Let’s flee from the face of Israel God prevails, for Adonai fights for them against the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery!” (A:4, S:3) 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Stretch out your hand over the sea, that the waters may come again on the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery, on their chariots, and on their horsemen.” 
Moses Drawn out stretched out his hand over the sea, and the sea teshuvah ·completely returned· to its strength when the morning appeared; and the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery fled against it. Adonai overthrew the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery in the middle of the sea. 
The waters teshuvah ·completely returned·, and covered the chariots and the horsemen, even all Pharaoh’s army that went in after them into the sea. There remained not so much as one of them. 
But the children of Israel God prevails walked on dry land in the middle of the sea, and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand, and on their left. 
Thus Adonai saved Israel God prevails that day out of the hand of the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery; and Israel God prevails saw the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery dead on the seashore. 
Israel God prevails saw the great work which Adonai did to the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery, and the people feared Adonai ; and they believed in Adonai , and in his servant Moses Drawn out. 
