Matthew [Gift of Yah].
Chapter 11.
When Yeshua Salvation had finished directing his twelve disciples, he departed from there to teach and preach in their cities. 
Now when John Yah is gracious heard in the prison the works of Messiah Anointed one, he sent two of his disciples 
and said to him, “Are you he who comes, or should we look for another?” 
Yeshua Salvation answered them, “Go and tell John Yah is gracious the things which you hear and see: 
the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the people afflicted with tzara'at ·leprosy· are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are being raised, and the poor have good news preached to them. 
Blessed is he who finds no occasion for stumbling in me.” 
As these went their way, Yeshua Salvation began to say to the multitudes concerning John Yah is gracious, “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? 
But what did you go out to see? A man in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in kings’ houses. 
But why did you go out? To see a prophet? Yes, I tell you, and much more than a prophet. 
For this is he, of whom it is written, ‘Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.’ 
Most certainly I tell you, among those who are born of women there has not arisen anyone greater than John Yah is gracious the Immerser; yet he who is least in the Kingdom of Heaven (God) is greater than he. 
From the days of John Yah is gracious the Immerser until now, the Kingdom of Heaven (God) suffers violence, and the violent take it by force. 
For all the prophets and the Torah ·Teaching· prophesied until John Yah is gracious. 
If you are willing to accept it, he is Elijah My God Yah whose coming was predicted. 
He who has ears to hear, let him sh'ma ·hear obey·. 
“But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces, who call to their companions 
and say, ‘We played the flute for you, and you didn’t dance. We mourned for you, and you didn’t lament.’ 
For John Yah is gracious came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon.’ 
The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, ‘Behold, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ But wisdom is justified by her children.” 
Then he began to denounce the cities in which most of his mighty works had been done, because they didn’t teshuvah ·turn repent·. 
“Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon which were done in you, they would have make teshuvah ·complete repentance· long ago in sackcloth and ashes. 
But I tell you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than for you. 
You, Capernaum Village-Comfort, Village-Compassion, will you be exalted to heaven? No, you will go down to Hades / Sh'ol ·Place of the dead·. For if the mighty works had been done in Sodom Burning which were done in you, it would have remained until today. 
But I tell you that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom Burning, on the day of judgment, than for you.” 
At that time, Yeshua Salvation answered, “I thank you, Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad·, Lord of heaven and earth, that you hid these things from the wise and understanding, and revealed them to infants. 
Yes, Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad·, for so it was well-pleasing in your sight. 
All things have been delivered to me by 'Avi ·my Father·. No one knows the Son, except the Abba ·Father·; neither does anyone know the Abba ·Father·, except the Son, and he to whom the Son desires to reveal him. 
“Come to me, all you who labor and are heavily burdened, and I will give you rest . 
Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart; and you will find rest for your souls. 
For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” 
