Genesis.
Chapter 13.
After that Abram left Egypt. He took his wife and his own younger brother's son Lot, he took all his belongings. Going they all returned to the dry country of Canaan. 
Camp by camp they were going, they came back to that camp close to Bethel. 
Right there earlier Abram gathered stones, he was talking to God. After returning he again really worshipped God. 
At that time Abram had very many animals, sheep, goats, cattle, donkeys, camels, gold and money, anything. 
Lot also was staying there, he had lots of animals and workers. 
(There were also some inhabitants of that land there, Canaan's mob and Periz's mob.) 
There were no end of animals on that country. Abram's workers and Lot's workers were seaching in vain for grass for the animals. 
Because of that the workers of those two were looking at each other with anger. 
Abram said to Lot, “We two are relatives. We two should stay without anger. My men and yours should stay without anger. 
This country is big. You choose your country. You will go to that country, I will go in another direction.” 
Lot looked around the country eastward, he saw a plain near the river, the name of that river was Jordan. That was good country, with plenty of water, in good condition all the way to Zoar, like the country Egypt. Two towns were in that plain, Sodom and Gomorrah. 
Lot chose that very country. He went east. In that way Abram and Lot separated. 
Abram stayed in Canaan country, Lot made camp on the plain, near the two towns, close to Sodom he made camp. 
Those people in Sodom were disobeyers/ignorers of God. They were really bad. 
After that God said to Abram, “From here look in every direction, northwards, southwards, eastwards and westwards. 
All this country I will give you, for you and for your grandchildren's grandchildren and for those who come after them, forever. 
I will look after them, they will become very many. (People) won't be able to name them. 
I will give you all this country. You will go through this country, you will look at it.” Like that he told Abram. 
After that Abram left that camp, he went to another camp, he was staying at the trees in Mamre, near the town Hebron. Again he heaped up stones, he worshipped God. 
