Genesis.
Chapter 27.
When Isaac became old he became blind. One day he called for his oldest one, Esau, “Oldest one, come here!” “Yes, what?” 
The father said to him, “Listen! I have become old. I might die anytime now. 
While I am alive I will tell you a word, God will do this good thing for you. Listen to me, take your weapons for going hunting. Having killed, cook for me really tasty meat. When I have eaten it I will tell you the word in preparation for my death.” 
While he was talking to Esau, Rebekah was listening to him. Esau went from the camp to go hunting. 
After that Rebekah said to the youngest one, “I heard your father telling your older brother, 
'Go hunting, having killed and returned, cook for me really tasty meat. When I have eaten I will tell you my good word, in preparation for my death.' That is how he spoke to your older brother. 
You listen to me, youngest one. 
Go, choose two small goats. When you have killed them bring them to me. On your behalf I will cook really tasty meat for your father, his favourite. 
You will take that meat to your father. Then it will be to you he will tell the good word in preparation for his dying.” 
Jacob said to her, “Listen to me. My older brother is hairy, I am smooth, without hair. 
Father might touch me. After touching me he might realise I am the youngest one, he might realise I lied. I might make trouble for myself!” 
His mother said to him, “Don't be afraid! Let the trouble come to me instead of you. Do what I say. Bring me two goats.” 
Jacob listened to his mother. He killed two goats, he took them to his mother. She cooked really tasty meat for his father. 
Then Rebekah got good clothes belonging to the eldest one, Esau's (clothes), she gave those garments to the youngest one. “Put these clothes on yourself.” 
After that she got a few bits of skin from the goats, she put them on his hands and neck. 
She gave Jacob the cooked meat and damper. “Take this food to your father.” 
Then he took the food to his father, he said to him, “Father!” “Yes, who are you?” 
Jacob lied, he said to him, “I am the eldest one, Esau. Having gone I have returned to you with meat, as you told me. Sit up now, eat this really tasty meat. After you have eaten tell me the word of how God will do good to me.” 
Isaac said to him, “Wow! You got the meat quickly.” Jacob lying said to him, “Your boss, God, showed me the meat quickly.” 
Isaac said to him, “You talk like someone else. Come here! After touching you I will know if you are telling the truth.” 
After that he came close to him. His father touched him. The goat skin deceived Isaac. “You talk like Jacob, your hand is like Esau's.” 
Wanting to be sure, his father asked him, “Are you really Esau?” “Yes, I am Esau.” 
“Pass me that meat. After eating it I will tell you my word.” Jacob took the meat to him, he gave him something to drink also, red wine. 
Then after eating Isaac said to him, “Come here to me, hug me.” 
He came to him, he hugged him. Isaac smelled Esau's clothes. He said to Jacob, “My son, you smell like grass, you smell like grassy country, very pleasant. God has been looking after that country. 
God will send rain for your country. Many foods will come up in all directions from the vegetation on your country. He will give you a lot of food and water to drink. 
People from far away, from other countries will work for you, they will obey you. You will be boss for your younger brothers, your mother's children will kneel down at your feet. Some will hate you, they will ask God to do evil to you. In response God will do evil to them. Some will do good to you. In response God will do good to them.” In that way Isaac spoke to Jacob. Like that he said God would do good to him. 
After that Jacob went, he left his father there. Soon Esau returned from hunting. 
He cooked tasty meat. After cooking it he took it to his father. “Father, sit up. Eat this meat from me. When you have eaten it you will tell me God's good word, God will do good for me.” 
Isaac asked him, “Who are you?” “I am your eldest one, Esau.” 
As soon as he heard Esau's word he trembled with fear. “Who, after killing meat, gave it to me? I finished eating the meat, all the meat. I gave my good word for him. Yes, God will do good to him in accordance with my word.” 
As soon as Esau heard that word he became upset. Truly he cried loudly there. He begged his father, “Give your good word to me also!” 
He said to him, “No, truly! I gave him my good word. Your younger brother deceived me for that word. I gave him my good word. I truly cannot give you that word.” 
Esau said to him, “My younger brother is a deceiver of people. Jacob is a good name for him. Twice my younger brother has deceived me. He tricked me into saying he is like an older brother for me. He tricked you about God's word, you gave it to him, you did not give it to me. Will you give me also your good word. In that way God will do good to me also.” 
Isaac said to him, “With what word can I talk to you, my son? I put your younger brother boss for you. His relatives will all obey him. I told him he will get much food and drink.” 
Esau said to his father, “Give me a small good word! Tell me one good word!” He cried loudly. 
His father said to him, “You will stay in poor country. Insufficient rain will fall on your country. 
You will stay as a fighter there. Your younger brother will stay a boss for you. And later you will separate from him. After that he will not force you to work. That is the word I am giving you, son.” 
After that Esau was thinking about his father's good word from God, his father gave it to Jacob. Therefore Esau did not like his younger brother. He was thinking, “Later my father will die. We will cry for him. After that I will kill my younger brother.” 
Someone learned about that word of Esau's and told their mother. Rebekah called to the younger one, she said to him, “Your older brother will kill you dead. In response they will kill him also. I will be without children. 
Listen to me, lest you die. Go from here. Go to another country, to what's-its-name, to Haran, to my older brother Laban. 
Stay there with him for a while. 
Later your older brother will forget about that lie of yours. After that he will feel good towards you without anger. Then I will send a message for you. I want you both to stay alive, not dying.” In that way Rebekah talked. 
After that Rebekah said to her husband, “I do not like those two wives of Esau's. Maybe Jacob will choose a wife from this country, from Hiti's mob. If he does that I will not want to stay alive, I will die.” 
