Genesis.
Chapter 18.
Fairly soon after that God again appeared to Abraham. Abraham was staying near the big trees at Mamre. The sun was above. In the heat he was staying in his tent, at the doorway. 
He looked, he saw three men standing nearby. Abraham stood up, he ran to them, he knelt down in front of them. 
He said to them, “Do not go straight on. 
Sit down here a while in the shade of the trees. I will get water for you, you can wash your feet. 
Food also I will bring for you. After eating you will go.” They said to him, “Yes. Good.” 
Abraham ran to the tent, he told Sarah, “Be quick! Get flour, cook damper for them.” 
After that he went outside, he got a bullock, a young one, in good condition. He said to a worker, “Be quick! Kill this animal, cook it.” 
After that was done Abraham took meat and milk and other things like that no word for 'cheese', he gave it to them. While the men were eating, Abraham was standing near the trees. 
One of those men was really God. He spoke to Abraham, “Where is your wife, Sarah?” “She is in the tent.” 
God said to him, “Truly after a year I will return, Sarah will give birth to a child, she will have a boy.” Nearby, inside the tent, Sarah was listening. 
She laughed to herself, she said to herself, “I am old, my husband also is old. I am very old, I cannot have a child.” 
God said to Abraham, “Why did Sarah laugh? Why did she say to herself, 'I am very old, I cannot have a child.'? 
It is not a puzzle for me. Truly I will do in that way. I will return after a year, truly Sarah will give birth to a child.” In that way God spoke to Abraham. 
With fear Sarah lied to him, “I did not laugh.” He replied, “Truly you laughed.” 
After that those three (previously mentioned) stood up, they went, they were looking towards Sodom. Abraham was going along with them. 
As he was going God was thinking to himself, “Those men in those two towns, the inhabitants of Sodom and Gomorrah, they are really bad. I might kill them dead forever. What shall I do, shall I tell Abraham I might do that? Yes I will tell him. 
I chose Abraham, because of him I will do good to all people, in all countries. I will give him many grandchildren's grandchildren and those who come after them, his mob will become very many, they will become important bosses. Because of that Abraham will tell his mob to listen to me for ever, they will do the proper thing for ever. After they do like that I will do good to them in accordance with my word.” 
After that he said to Abraham, “You know about those people in Sodom and Gomorrah. I have heard about them, they have continually been doing evil. 
As a result of that word I will go, I will see. Perhaps that word I heard is true.” 
After that those other two continued on towards Sodom. God and Abraham stood there. 
Abraham said to him, “Perhaps some in Sodom do good, they might go in the straight way. How will you act? Will you kill those also. 
Perhaps 50 inhabitants of Sodom are good. Will you kill all the inhabitants of Sodom? 
You should not kill the good ones, only the bad ones you should kill. You should do only good.” 
God replied, “For 50 who habitually do good I will not hit that town. I will just leave them all.” 
Abraham said to him, “I'm nothing, I should not ask. 
Perhaps there are only 45 habitually good ones in that town. How will you act? Will you kill everyone in the town?” “For 45 habitually good people I will not hit that town.” 
Again Abraham said to him, “Perhaps there are 40 good ones there.” “For 40 good ones I will not hit that town.” 
After that Abraham said to him, “Again I will ask you, please don't look at me with anger, perhaps there are only 30 good ones there.” “For 30 good ones I will not hit that town.” 
Again Abraham was bold. “Perhaps there are only 20 good ones there.” “For 20 good ones I will not hit that town.” 
After that Abraham said to him, “I will ask only once again. Please don't be angry with me. Perhaps there are 10 good ones there.” God replied, “Truly for 10 I will not hit that town.” 
After that, after talking to Abraham, God went, Abraham returned to the camp. 
