Mark.
Chapter 3.
After that Jesus again entered the meeting house. That day was Saturday. In that house there was a man with a bad hand, it was shrivelled, he could not move the hand. 
There were a few Pharisees there also. They did not like Jesus. They were watching him. They were saying to each other, “Today is Saturday. He might heal the sick person. According to our law that is bad. He should not heal a sick one on Saturday. If he does that we will really criticise him.” In that way those Pharisees were talking to each other. 
Jesus said to that man with the bad hand, “Come here.” 
Then he said to the Pharisees, “Listen! You know about Saturday, our day for not working. That is according to God's word. Yes, according to our law what shall we do to people on Saturday? Shall we do good to them? Shall we do bad to them? Shall we heal them? Shall we hit/kill them? What? You say.” They did not answer him. They were quiet in his presence. They were without pity and were stubborn. Therefore Jesus looked at them with anger. He was also sorry for them. After that he said to the man with the bad hand, “Stretch out your hand.” He stretched it out, it became well. 
Then those Pharisees became angry with him. They went away to talk with some others, what's their name, Herod's people. They joined together, they were discussing among themselves, “How shall we kill Jesus?” 
After that Jesus and his men went to the big water, the waterhole Galilee. Many people followed him. They were coming from that big town, Jerusalem, and from the countries of Judea and Idumea and from the other side of the Jordan river. They heard, “Jesus healed those who were sick.” After that many were coming. 
He healed many who were sick. They were coming very close to touch him. After that Jesus told his men, They might squash me. Get a dinghy for me. I will sit in it to avoid being squashed.” 
Some people were bringing other people to Jesus, they were crazy. Evil spirits were controlling them. As soon as they saw Jesus the evil spirits were throwing the people on the ground in front of Jesus. They were calling out with fear, “Jesus! You are God's child!” He was telling the spirits sternly, “Be quiet!” He was preventing them from naming him, “God's Child”. 
