Genesis.
Chapter 21.
After that God's word for Sarah came true for her. Earlier he said to Abraham, “Your wife Sarah will give birth to a child.” In accordance with God's word she had a child, a boy. 
Abraham named his child Isaac. That name says, 'He Laughs'. 
After 8 days Abraham cut him in accordance with God's word. 
At that time he was very old, he had 100 years. 
Sarah was very happy, she laughed, “God made me happy. Others when they hear will be happy, they also will laugh. 
Everyone was saying I would remain forever without a child for Abraham. Now I have given birth to a child for him after he is old.” 
The child became big, he left the breast. After that Abraham told his workers to cook a lot of food for many people. After that they all came to Abraham's camp, they were eating that food, they were happy. 
Ishmael, Hagar's son, in play was mocking Isaac. Sarah saw those two, she became upset. 
She said to Abraham, “After you die my son, Isaac, he only will get your belongings. That other child, the working woman's child, he will not get your belongings. Send that working woman and her child right away.” 
Sarah's word made Abraham upset. He did not want to send away his own child. 
God spoke to him, “Don't be upset about Ishmael and his mother. Listen to Sarah, do in accordance with her word. Earlier I said to you that I will give you many grandchildren's grandchildren and those who come after them. From Isaac they will come. 
Ishmael's grandchildren's grandchildren and those who come after them will be very many. He also is your child. Therefore I will do good to him also.” 
In the morning at daybreak Abraham gave Hagar food and water. He put a water container on Hagar's shoulder. After that he sent the two of them away. They were going about in the desert near what's-that-place, near Beersheba. 
Their water ran out. After that Hagar left her son near a tree. 
She went a little way off, she sat down. She said to herself, “Truly my son will soon die. I don't want to see that.” She was really crying for the child. 
The lad was crying, God heard him. From the sky he called Hagar, “Hagar, do not be upset, do not be afraid. I heard the lad cry. 
I will look after him. I will give him many grandchildren's grandchildren and those who come after them. Now go to him, take him by the hand, make him stand up.” Like that God spoke to her. 
After that Hagar looked, God showed her water. She went there, she filled the water container, she took it to the lad, she gave him water. 
Ishmael became big, God was caring for him. He became a hunter. 
He was staying in the desert, in the country named Paran. His mother got a wife for him from Egypt. 21:22-34 omitted at this stage. 
