Genesis.
Chapter 29.
After that he went from Bethel on foot. At last he came to them in another country, in the east. 
After that he was looking around, truly he saw a well, a big stone covered it. There he saw a few groups of sheep, they were lying close to the water, they were waiting for water. 
In the distance other people also were bringing their sheep, they were bringing them to the well. As soon as all had arrived at the water the people in charge of the sheep used to move that stone back. After giving water to the sheep they used to put that stone back to cover the well. 
Jacob said to the people in charge (of the sheep), “Where is your camp?” They answered him, “We are from the town, from what's-its-name, from Haran.” 
He said to them, “Do you know Laban, Nahor's grandson?” “Yes, we know him.” 
“Is he well?” “Yes, he is well. Look, that is his daughter, she is coming now with sheep.” 
He said to them, “Listen. The sun is still above. Why are you bringing the sheep when the sun is above? Quickly give them water, then quickly take them to the grass.” 
They replied, “We shouldn't give water yet, we will wait for the rest of the sheep. Truly after that we will move back this stone, when we have done that we will give them water.” 
While they were still talking, Rachel arrived with her father's sheep. She was the one who used to look after them. 
As soon as he saw Rachel and his uncle's sheep Jacob went to the well, he moved back that big stone from on top, he gave water to his uncle's sheep. 
Then he hugged Rachel. 
He said to her, “Your father is older brother for my mother. My mother is Rebekah.” Rachel ran to tell that word to her father. 
After hearing that word Laban went quickly to his nephew. He hugged him, he took him to his camp. Jacob told him how he came from far away, from another country, his own. 
Laban said to him, “You are my own nephew. Stay here with me.” Jacob stayed there, he worked for his uncle for one month. 
After that Laban said to him, “You are my own nephew. You were just working for me. Now after working what shall I give you?” 
Laban had two daughters. One was Leah, the other Rachel. 
Leah's eyes were a bit bad. Rachel was very attractive. 
Jacob was liking Rachel, he was wanting her for his wife. Therefore he said to Laban, “I will work for you for 7 years. After that you will give me Rachel as a wife.” 
Laban said to him, “Yes. I will give this Rachel to you, not to others. Truly you will stay right here with me.” 
After that he was working for his uncle for a long time, for 7 years. Truly he liked that girl. Therefore he was working, he was waiting 7 years, he was thinking it was like a few days he was working for that girl. 
After that he said to his uncle, “I worked for you for 7 years. Quickly give me my promised one.” 
Laban sent word to the people nearby to come to his camp. “We will all eat food for these two when they are joined, they will be man and wife.” Then his workers cooked a lot of food for them to eat. 
After it became dark Laban brought Leah, Rachel's older sister, to Jacob, he said to him, “This one now is your promised one.” (Laban gave one working woman to Leah, her name was Zilpah.) That night Jacob slept with Leah. As soon as he woke up, he saw it was another, Leah. Then he became angry, he said to his uncle, “Why did you deceive me? I worked for you for another woman, for Rachel. Why did you give me Leah?” 
Laban said to him, “This little one I will keep for you. The big one will be first. That is the way we do it. 
Wait for just a little while. Let us complete 7 days for this one, after that I will give you her younger sister for a wife. After that you will work for me for 7 years for that little one.” 
Jacob listened to Laban. “Yes, I will again work for you.” Then he was staying with Leah for 7 days, after that Laban gave him another wife, Rachel. 
(Laban gave one working woman to Rachel, her name was Bilhah.) 
Jacob slept with Rachel also. He loved Rachel a lot, he didn't care about Leah. For that wife Rachel he was again working for his uncle for 7 years. 
God knew about Jacob, he did not love Leah. God was sorry for Leah, he gave her children. Her younger sister was staying without children. 
Leah became pregnant. Truly she got a male child. She thought about God, “God felt sorry for me. He gave me this boy. Truly my husband will love me, I got this child for him.” So she named that eldest child Reuben. 
After that she got another child, a male. “God knows about my husband, he does not love me, therefore God gave me another child.” So she named that child Simeon. 
After that she got another child, a male. Then she said, “I gave my husband three male children. Now truly he will love me.” So she named that one Levi. 
After that she got another child, a male. She said to God, “Thank you, God. I will praise you.” So she named that child Judah. After that she did not have any more children for a long time. 
