Genesis.
Chapter 4.
Adam and Eve went from that place Eden. After that Eve had a son. She said, “God has given me a son.” His name was Cain. 
After that she had another son. His name was Abel. The two became big. They became men. Abel used to care for sheep. Cain used to dig the ground. He used to put foods in the ground, they used to come up, he used to gather them. 
Once Cain took food, he gave it to God. 
His younger brother took a sheep, he killed it, he gave good parts to God. Abel pleased God. 
Cain did not please him. Because of that Cain was (habitually) angry. His face changed (became different). 
God said to him, “Why are you angry with me? Why did your face change towards me? You should not be sullen. 
If you did right you would have been happy. You were doing badly. You should straighten yourself up to do good. If you do that you will make me happy. If you don't you will keep doing evil.” Missed concept of need to resist temptation. 
Cain didn't listen to God. He kept on being sullen. Because of that he said to his younger brother, “Let's go somewhere a long way off.” They went off. Then Cain killed his younger brother. 
Because of that God asked him, “Where is your younger brother?” The eldest one lied, “I don't know. I don't take care of him.” 
God said to him, “You lied. You killed him. His blood is on the ground. You truly did badly. 
In response I will do evil to you because of him/it. The ground will stay bad for you. 
And foods will not come up for you. I will send you far off. With fear you will keep going to other places.” 
Cain said to him, “You have made it extremely hard for me. 
I will go about to other places. Perhaps someone will kill me.” 
God said to him, “Whoever hits/kills you I will hit/kill him truly because of you.” 
Because of that Cain went far off. He stayed eastwards a long way from Eden. They call that far country, 'He just keeps wandering around'. 
His wife had a child named Enoch. Cain built a town. He named that town for his child, he named that town Enoch also. 4:18-24 omitted. 
After Abel died Eve had another child. She said, “Cain killed Abel. God in response has given me another child.” She named him Seth. 
