Lamentations.
Chapter 3.
I am the man that sees poverty, Through the rod of his wrath upon me. 
He has taken me, and led me away into darkness, And not into light. 
Nay, against me has he turned his hand all the day. 
He has made old my flesh and my skin; He has broken my bones. 
He has built against me, and compassed my head, And brought travail upon me. 
He has set me in dark places, As them that have long been dead. 
He has built against me, and I cannot come forth: He has made my brazen chain heavy. 
Yea, though I cry and shout, He shuts out my prayer. 
He has built up my ways, He has hedged my paths; 
He has troubled me, As a she-bear lying in wait: He is to me as a lion in secret places. 
He pursued me after I departed, And brought me to a stand: He has utterly ruined me. 
He has bent his bow, And set me as a mark for the arrow. 
He has caused the arrows of his quiver To enter into my reins. 
I became a laughingstock to all my people; And their song all the day. 
He has filled me with bitterness, He has drenched me with gall. 
And he has dashed out my teeth with gravel, He has fed me with ashes. 
He has also removed my soul from peace: I forgot prosperity. 
Therefore my success has perished, And my hope from the Lord. 
I remembered by reason of my poverty, And because of persecution my bitterness and gall shall be remembered; 
And my soul shall meditate with me. 
This will I lay up in my heart, Therefore will I endure. 
It is the mercies of the Lord, That he has not failed me, Because his compassions are not exhausted. Pity us, O Lord, Early every month: For we are not brought to an end, Because his compassions are not exhausted. 
They are new every morning: Great is thy faithfulness. 
The Lord is my portion, says my soul; Therefore will I wait for him. 
The Lord is good to them that wait for him: The soul which shall seek him 
Is good, and shall wait for, And quietly expect salvation of the Lord. 
It is good for a man When he bears a yoke in his youth. 
He will sit alone, and be silent, Because he has borne it upon him. 
He will give his cheek to him that smites him: He will be filled full with reproaches. 
For the Lord will not reject forever. 
For he that has brought down will pity, And that according to the abundance of his mercy. 
He has not answered in anger from his heart, Though he has brought low the children of a man. 
To bring down under his feet All the prisoners of the earth, 
To turn aside the judgment of a man Before the face of the Most High, 
To condemn a man unjustly in his judgment, The Lord has not given commandment. 
Who has thus spoken, and it has come to pass? The Lord has not commanded it. 
Out of the mouth of the Most High There shall not come forth evil and good. 
Why should a living man complain, A man concerning his sin? 
Our way has been searched out and examined, And we will turn to the Lord. 
Let us lift up our hearts with our hands To the lofty One in heaven. 
We have sinned, We have transgressed; And thou hast not pardoned. 
Thou hast visited us in wrath, And driven us away: Thou hast slain, Thou hast not pitied. 
Thou hast veiled thyself with a cloud Because of prayer, That I might be blind, 
And be cast off. Thou hast set us alone In the midst of the nations. 
All our enemies have opened their mouth against us. 
Fear and wrath are come upon us, Suspense and destruction. 
Mine eye shall pour down torrents of water, For the destruction of the daughter of my people. 
Mine eye is drowned with tears, And I will not be silent, So that there shall be no rest, 
Until the Lord look down, And behold from heaven. 
Mine eye shall prey upon my soul, Because of all the daughters of the city. 
The fowlers chased me as a sparrow, All mine enemies destroyed my life in a pit without cause, 
And laid a stone upon me. 
Water flowed over my head: I said, I am cut off. 
I called upon thy name, O Lord, Out of the lowest dungeon. 
Thou heardest my voice: Close not thine ears to my supplication. 
Thou drewest nigh to my help: In the day wherein I called upon thee Thou saidst to me, Fear not. 
O Lord, thou hast pleaded the causes of my soul; Thou hast redeemed my life. 
Thou hast seen, O Lord, my troubles: Thou hast judged my cause. 
Thou hast seen all their vengeance, Thou hast looked on all their devices against me. 
Thou hast heard their reproach And all their devices against me; 
The lips of them that rose up against me, And their plots against me all the day; 
Their sitting down and their rising up: Look thou upon their eyes. 
Thou wilt render them a recompense, O Lord, According to the works of their hands. 
Thou wilt give them as a covering, The grief of my heart. 
Thou wilt persecute them in anger, And wilt consume them from under the heaven, O Lord. 
