Chronicles I.
Chapter 8.
Now Benjamin begot Bela his firstborn, and Ashbel his second son, Aharah the third, Nohah the fourth, 
and Rapha the fifth. 
And the sons of Bela were, Addar, and Gera, and Abihud, 
and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah, 
and Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram. 
These were the sons of Ehud: these are the heads of families to them that dwell in Geba, and they removed them to Manahath: 
and Naaman, and Ahijah and Gera, he removed them, and he begot Uzza, and Ahihud. 
And Shaharaim begot children in the plain of Moab, after that he had sent away Hushim and Baara his wives. 
And he begot of his wife Hodesh, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcam, 
and Jeuz, and Sachia, and Mirmah: these were heads of families. 
And of Hushim he begot Abitub, and Elpaal. 
And the sons of Elpaal; Eber, Misham, Shemed: he built Ono, and Lod, and its towns: 
and Beriah, and Shema; these were heads of families among the dwellers in Aijalon, and they drove out the inhabitants of Gath. 
And his brethren were Shashak, and Jeremoth, 
and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Eder, 
and Michael, and Ishpah, and Joha, the sons of Beriah: 
and Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hizki, and Heber, 
and Ishmerai, and Izliah, and Jobab, the sons of Elpaal: 
and Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi, 
and Elienai, and Zillethai, 
and Eliel, and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, sons of Shimei: 
and Ishpan, and Eber, and Eliel, 
and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan, 
and Hananiah, and Ambri, and Elam, and Anthothijah, 
and Jathin, and Iphdeiah, and Penuel, the sons of Shashak: 
and Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah, 
and Jaareshiah, and Elijah, and Zichri, son of Jeroham. 
These were heads of families, chiefs according to their generations: these dwelt in Jerusalem. 
And the father of Gibeon dwelt in Gibeon; and his wife’s name was Maacah. 
And her firstborn son was Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab, and Ner, 
and Gedor and his brother, and Zecher, and Mikloth. 
And Mikloth begot Shimeah: for these dwelt in Jerusalem in the presence of their brethren with their brethren. 
And Ner begot Kish, and Kish begot Saul, and Saul begot Jonathan, and Malchi-shua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal. 
And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal begot Micah. 
And the sons of Micah; Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz. 
And Ahaz begot Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah begot Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begot Moza; 
and Moza begot Binea: Raphah, was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son. 
And Azel had six sons, and these were their names; Azrikam his firstborn, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan, and Asa: all these were the sons of Azel. 
And the sons of Eshek his brother; Ulam his firstborn, and Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third. 
And the sons of Ulam were mighty men, bending the bow, and multiplying sons and grandsons, a hundred and fifty. All these were of the sons of Benjamin. 
