Proverbs.
Chapter 17.
Better is a morsel with pleasure in peace, Than a house full of many good things and unjust sacrifices, with strife. 
A wise servant shall have rule over foolish masters, And shall divide portions among brethren. 
As silver and gold are tried in a furnace, So are choice hearts with the Lord. 
A bad man hearkens to the tongue of transgressors: But a righteous man attends not to false lips. 
He that laughs at the poor provokes him that made him; And he that rejoices at the destruction of another shall not be held guiltless: But he that has compassion shall find mercy. 
Children’s children are the crown of old men; And their fathers are the glory of children. 
The faithful has the whole world full of wealth; But the faithless not even a farthing. 
Faithful lips will not suit a fool; Nor lying lips a just man. 
Instruction is to them that use it a gracious reward: And whithersoever it may turn, it shall prosper. 
He that conceals injuries seeks love; But he that hates to hide them separates friends and kindred. 
A threat breaks down the heart of a wise man; But a fool, though scourged, understands not. 
Every bad man stirs up strifes: But the Lord will send out against him an unmerciful messenger. 
Care may befall a man of understanding; But fools will meditate evils. 
Whoso rewards evil for good, Evil shall not be removed from his house. 
Rightful rule gives power to words; But sedition and strife precede poverty. 
He that pronounces the unjust just, and the just unjust, Is unclean and abominable with God. 
Why has the fool wealth? For a senseless man will not be able to purchase wisdom. 
He that exalts his own house seeks ruin; And he that turns aside from instruction shall fall into mischiefs. 
Have thou a friend for every time, And let brethren be useful in distress; For on this account are they born. 
A foolish man applauds and rejoices over himself, As he also that becomes surety would make himself responsible for his own friends. 
A lover of sin rejoices in strifes; 
And the hard-hearted man comes not in for good. A man of a changeful tongue will fall into mischiefs; 
And the heart of a fool is grief to its possessor. A father rejoices not over an uninstructed son; But a wise son gladdens his mother. 
A glad heart promotes health; But the bones of a sorrowful man dry up. 
The ways of a man who unjustly receives gifts in his bosom do not prosper; And an ungodly man perverts the ways of righteousness. 
The countenance of a wise man is sensible; But the eyes of a fool go to the ends of the earth. 
A foolish son is a cause of anger to his father, And grief to her that bore him. 
It is not right to punish a righteous man, Nor is it holy to plot against righteous princes. 
He that forbears to utter a hard word is discreet, And a patient man is wise. 
Wisdom shall be imputed to a fool who asks after wisdom: And he who holds his peace shall seem to be sensible. 
