Genesis.
Chapter 12.
And the Lord said to Abram, Go forth out of thy land and out of thy kindred, and out of the house of thy father, and come into the land which I shall show thee. 
And I will make thee a great nation, and I will bless thee and magnify thy name, and thou shalt be blessed. 
And I will bless those that bless thee, and curse those that curse thee, and in thee shall all the tribes of the earth be blessed. 
And Abram went as the Lord spoke to him, and Lot departed with him, and Abram was seventy-five years old, when he went out of Haran. 
And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot the son of his brother, and all their possessions, as many as they had gotten, and every soul which they had gotten in Haran, and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan. 
And Abram traversed the land lengthwise as far as the place Shechem, to the high oak, and the Canaanites then inhabited the land. 
And the Lord appeared to Abram, and said to him, I will give this land to thy seed. And Abram built an altar there to the Lord, who appeared to him. 
And he departed thence to the mountain eastward of Bethel, and there he pitched his tent in Bethel near the sea, and Ai toward the east, and there he built an altar to the Lord, and called on the name of the Lord. 
And Abram departed and went and encamped in the wilderness. 
And there was a famine in the land, and Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, because the famine prevailed in the land. 
And it came to pass when Abram drew nigh to enter into Egypt, Abram said to Sarai his wife, I know that thou art a fair woman. 
It shall come to pass then that when the Egyptians shall see thee, they shall say, This is his wife, and they shall slay me, but they shall save thee alive. 
Say, therefore, I am his sister, that it may be well with me on account of thee, and my soul shall live because of thee. 
And it came to pass when Abram entered into Egypt—the Egyptians having seen his wife that she was very beautiful— 
that the princes of Pharaoh saw her, and praised her to Pharaoh and brought her into the house of Pharaoh. 
And they treated Abram well on her account, and he had sheep, and calves, and asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and mules, and camels. 
And God afflicted Pharaoh with great and severe afflictions, and his house, because of Sarai, Abram’s wife. 
And Pharaoh having called Abram, said, What is this thou hast done to me, that thou didst not tell me that she was thy wife? 
Wherefore didst thou say, She is my sister? and I took her for a wife to myself; and now, behold, thy wife is before thee, take her and go quickly away. 
And Pharaoh gave charge to men concerning Abram, to join in sending him forward, and his wife, and all that he had. 
