Judges.
Chapter 14.
And Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines. 
And he went up and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines; and now take her to me for a wife. 
And his father and his mother said to him, Are there no daughters of thy brethren, and is there not a woman of all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? And Samson said to his father, Take her for me, for she is right in my eyes. 
And his father and his mother knew not that it was of the Lord, that he sought to be revenged on the Philistines: and at that time the Philistines lorded it over Israel. 
And Samson and his father and his mother went down to Timnah, and he came to the vineyard of Timnah; and behold, a young lion roared in meeting him. 
And the Spirit of the Lord came powerfully upon him, and he crushed him as he would have crushed a kid of the goats, and there was nothing in his hands: and he told not his father and his mother what he had done. 
And they went down and spoke to the woman, and she was pleasing in the eyes of Samson. 
And after some time he returned to take her, and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion; and behold, a swarm of bees, and honey were in the mouth of the lion. 
And he took it into his hands, and went on eating, and he went to his father and his mother, and gave to them, and they did eat; but he told them not that he took the honey out of the mouth of the lion. 
And his father went down to the woman, and Samson made there a banquet for seven days, for so the young men are used to do. 
And it came to pass when they saw him, that they took thirty guests, and they were with him. 
And Samson said to them, I propound you a riddle: if ye will indeed tell it me, and discover it within the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty sheets and thirty changes of raiment. 
And if ye cannot tell it me, ye shall give me thirty napkins and thirty changes of apparel: and they said to him, Propound thy riddle, and we will hear it. 
And he said to them, Meat came forth of the eater, And sweetness out of the strong: and they could not tell the riddle for three days. 
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they said to the wife of Samson, Deceive now thy husband, and let him tell thee the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father’s house with fire: did ye invite us to do us violence? 
And Samson’s wife wept before him, and said, Thou dost but hate me, and lovest me not; for the riddle which thou hast propounded to the children of my people, thou hast not told me: and Samson said to her, If I have not told it to my father and my mother, shall I tell it to thee? 
And she wept before him the seven days, during which their banquet lasted: and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she troubled him; and she told it to the children of her people. 
And the men of the city said to him on the seventh day, before sunrise, What is sweeter than honey? And what is stronger than a lion? and Samson said to them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, Ye would not have known my riddle. 
And the Spirit of the Lord came upon him powerfully, and he went down to Ashkelon, and destroyed of the inhabitants thirty men, and took their garments, and gave the changes of raiment to them that told the riddle; and Samson was very angry, and went up to the house of his father. 
And the wife of Samson was given to one of his friends, with whom he was on terms of friendship. 
