Proverbs.
Chapter 26.
As dew in harvest, and as rain in summer, So honor is not seemly for a fool. 
As birds and sparrows fly, So a curse shall not come upon anyone without a cause. 
As a whip for a horse, and a goad for an ass, So is a rod for a simple nation. 
Answer not a fool according to his folly, Lest thou become like him. 
Yet answer a fool according to his folly, Lest he seem wise in his own conceit. 
He that sends a message by a foolish messenger Procures for himself a reproach from his own ways. 
As well take away the motion of the legs, As transgression from the mouth of fools. 
He that binds up a stone in a sling, Is like one that gives glory to a fool. 
Thorns grow in the hand of a drunkard, And servitude in the hand of fools. 
All the flesh of fools endures much hardship; For their fury is brought to nought. 
As when a dog goes to his own vomit, and becomes abominable, So is a fool who returns in his wickedness to his own sin. 
There is a shame that brings sin: And there is a shame that is glory and grace. 
I have seen a man who seemed to himself to be wise; But a fool had more hope than he. 
A sluggard when sent on a journey says, There is a lion in the ways, And there are murderers in the streets. 
As a door turns on the hinge, So does a sluggard on his bed. 
A sluggard having hidden his hand in his bosom, Will not be able to bring it up to his mouth. 
A sluggard seems to himself wiser Than one who most satisfactorily brings back a message. 
As he that lays hold of a dog’s tail, So is he that makes himself the champion of another’s cause. 
As those who need correction put forth fair words to men, And he that first falls in with the proposal will be overthrown; 
So are all that lay wait for their own friends, And when they are discovered, say, I did it in jest. 
With much wood fire increases; But where there is not a double-minded man, strife ceases. 
A hearth for coals, and wood for fire; And a railing man for the tumult of strife. 
The words of cunning knaves are soft; But they smite even to the inmost parts of the bowels. 
Silver dishonestly given is to be considered as a potsherd: Smooth lips cover a grievous heart. 
A weeping enemy promises all things with his lips, But in his heart he contrives deceit. 
Though thine enemy entreat thee with a loud voice, consent not: For there are seven abominations in his heart. 
He that hides enmity frames deceit: but being easily discerned, Exposes his own sins in the public assemblies. 
He that digs a pit for his neighbor shall fall into it: And he that rolls a stone, rolls it upon himself. 
A lying tongue hates the truth; And an unguarded mouth causes tumults. 
