Job.
Chapter 7.
Is not the life of man upon earth a state of trial? And his existence as that of a hireling by the day? 
Or as a servant that fears his master, and one who has grasped a shadow? Or as a hireling waiting for his pay? 
So have I also endured months of vanity, And nights of pain have been appointed me. 
Whenever I lie down, I say, When will it be day? And whenever I rise up, again I say when will it be evening? And I am full of pains from evening to morning. 
And my body is covered with loathsome worms; And I waste away, scraping off clods of dust from my eruption. 
And my life is lighter than a word, And has perished in vain hope. 
Remember then that my life is breath, And mine eye shall not yet again see good. 
The eye of him that sees me shall not see me again: Thine eyes are upon me, and I am no more. 
I am as a cloud that is cleared away from the sky: For if a man go down to the grave, he shall not come up again: 
And he shall surely not return to his own house, Neither shall his place know him anymore. 
Then neither will I refrain my mouth: I will speak being in distress; Being in anguish I will disclose the bitterness of my soul. 
Am I a sea, or a serpent, That thou hast set a watch over me? 
I said that my bed should comfort me, And I would privately counsel with myself on my couch. 
Thou scarest me with dreams, and dost terrify me with visions. 
Thou wilt separate life from my spirit; And yet keep my bones from death. 
For I shall not live forever, that I should patiently endure: Depart from me, for my life is vain. 
For what is man, that thou hast magnified him? Or that thou givest heed to him? 
Wilt thou visit him till the morning, And judge him till the time of rest? 
How long dost thou not let me alone, Nor let me go, until I shall swallow down my spittle? 
If I have sinned, what shall I be able to do, O thou that understandest the mind of men? Why hast thou made me as thine accuser, And why am I a burden to thee? 
Why hast thou not forgotten my iniquity, And purged my sin? But now I shall depart to the earth; And in the morning, I am no more. 
