Genesis.
Chapter 36.
And these are the generations of Esau; this is Edom. 
And Esau took to himself wives of the daughters of the Canaanites; Adah, the daughter of Elon the Hittite; and Oholibamah, daughter of Anah the son of Zibeon, the Hivite; 
and Basemath, daughter of Ishmael, sister of Nebaioth. 
And Adah bore to him Eliphaz; and Basemath bore Reuel. 
And Oholibamah bore Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah; these are the sons of Esau, which were born to him in the land of Canaan. 
And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and all his possessions, and all his cattle, and all that he had gotten, and all things whatsoever he had acquired in the land of Canaan; and Esau went forth from the land of Canaan, from the face of his brother Jacob. 
For their substance was too great for them to dwell together; and the land of their sojourning could not bear them, because of the abundance of their possessions. 
And Esau dwelt in Mount Seir; Esau, he is Edom. 
And these are the generations of Esau, the father of Edom in the Mount Seir. 
And these are the names of the sons of Esau. Eliphaz, the son of Adah, the wife of Esau; and Reuel, the son of Basemath, wife of Esau. 
And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz. 
And Timna was a concubine of Eliphaz, the son of Esau; and she bore Amalek to Eliphaz. These are the sons of Adah, the wife of Esau. 
And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These were the sons of Basemath, wife of Esau. 
And these are the sons of Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah, the son of Zibeon, the wife of Esau; and she bore to Esau, Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah. 
These are the chiefs of the son of Esau, even the sons of Eliphaz, the firstborn of Esau; chief Teman, chief Omar, chief Zepho, chief Kenaz, 
chief Korah, chief Gatam, chief Amalek. These are the chiefs of Eliphaz, in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Adah. 
And these are the sons of Reuel, the son of Esau; chief Nahath, chief Zerah, chief Shammah, chief Mizzah. These are the chiefs of Reuel, in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Basemath, wife of Esau. 
And these are the sons of Oholibamah, wife of Esau; chief Jeush, chief Jalam, chief Korah. These are the chiefs of Oholibamah, daughter of Anah, wife of Esau. 
These are the sons of Esau, and these are the chiefs; these are the sons of Edom. 
And these are the sons of Seir, the Horite, who inhabited the land; Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, 
and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan. These are the chiefs of the Horite, the son of Seir, in the land of Edom. 
And the sons of Lotan were Hori and Heman; and the sister of Lotan, Timna. 
And these are the sons of Shobal; Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, and Shepho, and Onam. 
And these are the sons of Zibeon; Aiah, and Anah; this is the Anah who found Jamin in the wilderness, when he tended the beasts of his father Zibeon. 
And these are the sons of Anah; Dishon—and Oholibamah was daughter of Anah. 
And these are the sons of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 
And these are the sons of Ezer; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan. 
And these are the sons of Dishan; Uz, and Aran. 
And these are the chiefs of Hori; chief Lotan, chief Shobal, chief Zibeon, chief Anah, 
chief Dishon, chief Ezer, chief Dishan. These are the chiefs of Hori, in their principalities in the land of Edom. 
And these are the kings which reigned in Edom, before a king reigned in Israel. 
And Bela, son of Beor, reigned in Edom; and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
And Bela died; and Jobab, son of Zerah, from Bozrah reigned in his stead. 
And Jobab died; and Husham, from the land of the Temanites, reigned in his stead. 
And Husham died; and Hadad son of Bedad, who cut off Midian in the plain of Moab, ruled in his stead; and the name of his city was Getthaim. 
And Hadad died; and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead. 
And Samlah died; and Shaul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead. 
And Shaul died; and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead. 
And Baal-hanan the son of Achbor died; and Hadar the son of Barad reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Pau; and the name of his wife was Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, son of Mezahab. 
These are the names of the chiefs of Esau, in their tribes, according to their place, in their countries, and in their nations; chief Timna, chief Alvah, chief Jetheth, 
chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon, 
chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar, 
chief Magdiel, chief Zaphoin. These are the chiefs of Edom in their dwelling places, in the land of their possession; this is Esau, the father of Edom. 
