Chronicles I.
Chapter 11.
And all Israel came to David in Hebron, saying, Behold, we are thy bones and thy flesh. 
And heretofore when Saul was king, thou wast he that led Israel in and out, and the Lord of Israel said to thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be for a ruler over Israel. 
And all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and King David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the Lord: and they anointed David to be king over Israel, according to the word of the Lord by Samuel. 
And the king and his men went to Jerusalem, this is Jebus; and there the Jebusites the inhabitants of the land said to David, 
Thou shalt not enter in hither. But he took the stronghold of Zion: this is the city of David. 
And David said, Whoever first smites the Jebusite, even he shall be chief and captain. And Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first, and became chief. 
And David dwelt in the stronghold; therefore he called it the city of David. 
And he fortified the city round about. 
And David continued to increase, and the Lord Almighty was with him. 
And these are the chiefs of the mighty men, whom David had, who strengthened themselves with him in his kingdom, with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of the Lord concerning Israel. 
And this is the list of the mighty men of David; Jashobeam, son of Hachmon, first of the thirty: he drew his sword once against three hundred whom he slew at one time. 
And after him Eleazar son of Dodai, the Ahohite: he was among the three mighty men. 
He was with David in Pas-dammim, and the Philistines were gathered there to battle, and there was a portion of the field full of barley; and the people fled before the Philistines. 
And he stood in the midst of the portion, and rescued it, and smote the Philistines; and the Lord wrought a great deliverance. 
And three of the thirty chiefs went down to the rock to David, to the cave of Adullam, and the camp of the Philistines was in the giants’ valley. 
And David was then in the hold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Bethlehem. 
And David longed, and said, Who will give me water to drink of the well of Bethlehem, that is in the gate? 
And the three broke through the camp of the Philistines, and they drew water out of the well that was in Bethlehem, which was in the gate, and they took it, and came to David: but David would not drink it, and poured it out to the Lord, and said, 
God forbid that I should do this thing: shall I drink the blood of these men with their lives? for with the peril of their lives they brought it. So he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men. 
And Abishai the brother of Joab, he was chief of three: he drew his sword against three hundred slain at one time, and he had a name among the second three. 
He was more famous than the two others of the three, and he was chief over them; yet he reached not to the first three. 
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was the son of a mighty man: many were his acts for Kabzeel: he smote two lionlike men of Moab, and he went down and smote a lion in a pit on a snowy day. 
And he smote an Egyptian, a wonderful man five cubits high; and in the hand of the Egyptian there was a spear like a weavers’ beam; and Benaiah went down to him with a staff, and took the spear out of the Egyptian’s hand, and slew him with his own spear. 
These things did Benaiah son of Jehoiada, and his name was among the three mighties. 
He was distinguished beyond the thirty, yet he reached not to the first three: and David set him over his family. 
And the mighty men of the forces were, Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem, 
Shammoth the Harodite, Helez the Pelonite, 
Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite, 
Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite, 
Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite, 
Ithai the son of Ribai of the hill of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite, 
Hurai of Nachali Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite, 
Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite, 
the son of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite, 
Ahiam the son of Sachar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Thyrophar 
the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite, 
Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai, 
Joel the son of Nathan, Mibhar son of Hagri, 
Zelek the son of Ammoni, Naharai the Beerothite, armor bearer to the son of Zeruiah, 
Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 
Uriah the Hittite, Zabad son of Ahlai, 
Adina son of Shiza, a chief of Reuben, and thirty with him, 
Hanan the son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite, 
Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel sons of Hotham the Aroerite, 
Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother the Tizite, 
Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah his son, Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite, 
Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel of Mezoba. 
