Ezra and Nehemiah.
Chapter 22.
Now these are the priests and the Levites that went up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra, 
Amariah, Malluch, 
Shecaniah. 
These were the chiefs of the priests, and their brethren in the days of Jeshua. 
And the Levites were, Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, Mattaniah: he was over the bands, and his brethren 
were appointed to the daily courses. 
And Jeshua begot Joiakim, and Joiakim begot Eliashib, and Eliashib begot Joiada, 
and Joiada begot Jonathan, and Jonathan begot Jaddua. 
And in the days of Joiakim, his brethren the priests and the heads of families were, belonging to Seraiah, Meraiah; to Jeremiah, Hananiah; 
to Ezra, Meshullam; to Amariah, Jehohanan; 
to Malluchi, Jonathan; to Shebaniah, Joseph; 
to Harim, Adna; to Meraioth, Helkai; 
to Iddo, Zechariah; to Ginnethon, Meshullam; 
to Abijah, Zichri; to Miniamin, Maadiah; to Piltai, one; 
to Bilgah, Shammua; to Shemaiah, Jehonathan; 
to Joiarib, Mattenai; to Jedaiah, Uzzi; 
to Sallai, Kallai; to Amok, Eber; 
to Hilkiah, Hashabiah; to Jedaiah, Nethanel. 
The Levites in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Joa, and Johanan, and Jaddua, were recorded heads of families: also the priests, in the reign of Darius the Persian. 
And the sons of Levi, heads of families, were written in the book of the chronicles, even to the days of Johanan son of Eliashib. 
And the heads of the Levites were Hashabiah, and Sherebiah, and Jeshua: and the sons of Kadmiel, and their brethren over against them, were to sing hymns of praise, according to the commandment of David the man of God, course by course. 
When I gathered the porters, 
it was in the days of Joiakim son of Jeshua, son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah: and Ezra the priest was scribe. 
And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites in their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep a feast of dedication and gladness with thanksgiving, and they sounded cymbals with songs, and had psalteries and harps. 
And the sons of the singers were assembled both from the neighborhood round about to Jerusalem, and from the villages, 
and from the country: for the singers built themselves villages by Jerusalem. 
And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and they purified the people, and the porters, and the wall. 
And they brought up the princes of Judah on the wall, and they appointed two great companies for thanksgiving, and they passed on the right hand on the wall of the Dung Gate. 
And after them went Hoshaiah, and half the princes of Judah, 
and Azariah, and Ezra, and Meshullam, 
and Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah and Jeremiah. 
And some of the sons of the priests with trumpets, Zechariah son of Jonathan, son of Shemaiah, son of Mattaniah, son of Micaiah, son of Zaccur, son of Asaph: 
and his brethren, Shemaiah, and Azarel, Gilalai, Jama, Maai, Nethanel, and Judah, Hanani, to praise with the hymns of David the man of God; 
and Ezra the scribe was before them, at the gate, to praise before them, and they went up by the steps of the city of David, in the ascent of the wall, above the house of David, even to the Water Gate 
of Ephraim, and to the Fish Gate, and by the tower of Hananel, and as far as the Sheep Gate. 
And the singers were heard, and were numbered. 
And in that day they offered great sacrifices, and rejoiced; for God had made them very joyful: and their wives and their children rejoiced: and the joy in Jerusalem was heard from afar off. 
And in that day they appointed men over the treasuries, for the treasures, the firstfruits, and the tithes, and for the chiefs of the cities who were assembled among them, to furnish portions for the priests and Levites: for there was joy in Judah over the priests and over the Levites that waited. 
And they kept the charges of their God, and the charges of the purification, and ordered the singers and the porters, according to the commandments of David and his son Solomon. 
For in the days of David Asaph was originally first of the singers, and they sang hymns and praise to God. 
And all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of Nehemiah, gave the portions of the singers and the porters, a daily rate: and consecrated them to the Levites: and the Levites consecrated them to the sons of Aaron. 
