Joshua.
Chapter 19.
And the second lot came out for the children of Simeon; and their inheritance was in the midst of the lots of the children of Judah. 
And their lot was Beersheba, and Sheba, and Moladah, 
and Hazar-shual, and Balah, and Ezem, 
and Eltolad, and Bethul, and Hormah, 
and Ziklag, and Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susah, 
and Beth-lebaoth, and their fields, thirteen cities, and their villages. 
Rimmon, and Thalcha, and Ether, and Ashan; four cities and their villages, 
round about their cities as far as Baalath as men go to Ramah southward: this is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families. 
The inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon was a part of the lot of Judah, for the portion of the children of Judah was greater than theirs; and the children of Simeon inherited in the midst of their lot. 
And the third lot came out to Zebulun according to their families: the bounds of their inheritance shall be—Esedekgola shall be their border, 
the sea and Magelda, and it shall reach to Beth-arabah in the valley, which is opposite Jokneam. 
And the border returned from Sedduc in a contrary direction eastward from Beth-shemesh, to the borders of Chisloth-tabor, and shall pass on to Daberath, and shall proceed upward to Japhia. 
And thence it shall come round in the opposite direction eastward to Gath-hepher to the city of Catasem, and shall go on to Rimmon Matharaoza. 
And the borders shall come round northward to Hannathon, and their going out shall be at Iphtahel, 
and Kattath, and Nahalal, and Shimron, and Jericho, and Bethlehem. 
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun according to their families, these cities and their villages. 
And the fourth lot came out to Issachar. 
And their borders were Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem, 
and Agin, and Shion, and Reeroth, 
and Anaharath, and Dabiron, and Kishion, and Ebez, 
and Remeth, and Jeon, and Tomman, and Aemarec, and Bersaphes. 
And the boundaries shall border upon Tabor, and upon Salim westward, and Beth-shemesh; and the extremity of his bounds shall be Jordan. 
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Issachar according to their families, the cities and their villages. 
And the fifth lot came out to Asher according to their families. 
And their borders were Helkath, and Aleph, and Baethok, and Keaph, 
and Allammelech, and Amad, and Mishal, and the lot will border on Carmel westward, and on Shihor, and Libnath. 
And it will return westward from Beth-dagon, and will join Zebulun and Ekgai, and Iphtahel northward, and the borders will come to Saphthae-beth-emek, and Neiel, and will go on to Chobamasomel, 
and Ebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah to great Sidon. 
And the borders shall turn back to Ramah, and to the fountain of Masphassat, and the Tyrians; and the borders shall return to Jasiph, and their going forth shall be the sea, and Mahalab, and Achzib, 
and Archob, and Aphek, and Rehob. 
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Asher according to their families, the cities and their villages. 
And the sixth lot came out to Naphtali. 
And their borders were Moolam, and Mola, and Besemiin, and Arme, and Naboc, and Jephthamai, as far as Dodam; and their goings out were Jordan. 
And the coasts will return westward by Aznoth-tabor, and will go out thence to Jacana, and will border on Zebulun southward, and Asher will join it westward, and Jordan eastward. 
And the walled cities of the Tyrians, Tyre, and Hammath-rakkath, and Chinnereth, 
and Armaith, and Arael, and Hazor, 
and Kedesh, and Assari, and the well of Hazor; 
and Keroe, and Megalaarim, and Beth-anath, and Beth-shemesh. 
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Naphtali. 
And the seventh lot came out to Dan. 
And their borders were Zorah, and Asa, and the cities of Shemesh, 
and Shaalabbin, and Ammon, and Ithlah, 
and Elon, and Timnah, and Ekron; 
and Eltekeh, and Gibbethon, and Gebeelan, 
and Azor, and Bene-berak, and Gath-rimmon. 
And westward of Jarkon the border was near to Joppa. 
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Dan, according to their families, these are their cities and their villages: 
and the children of Dan did not drive out the Amorite who afflicted them in the mountain; and the Amorite would not suffer them to come down into the valley, but they forcibly took from them the border of their portion. 
And the sons of Dan went and fought against Lachish, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword; and they dwelt in it, and called the name of it Leshem-dan: 
and the Amorite continued to dwell in Edom and in Salamin: and the hand of Ephraim prevailed against them, and they became tributaries to them. 
And they proceeded to take possession of the land according to their borders, and the children of Israel gave an inheritance to Joshua the son of Nun among them, 
by the command of God, and they gave him the city which he asked for, Timnath-serah, which is in the mount of Ephraim; and he built the city, and dwelt in it. 
These are the divisions which Eleazar the priest divided by lot, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of families among the tribes of Israel, according to the lots, in Shiloh before the Lord by the doors of the tabernacle of testimony, and they went to take possession of the land. 
