Chronicles I.
Chapter 18.
And it came to pass afterward, that David smote the Philistines, and routed them, and took Gath and its villages out of the hand of the Philistines. 
And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became servants to David, and tributaries. 
And David smote Hadadezer king of Zobah of Hamath, as he was going to establish power toward the river Euphrates. 
And David took of them a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand infantry: and David houghed all the chariot horses, but there were reserved of them a hundred chariots. 
And the Syrian came from Damascus to help Hadadezer king of Zobah; and David smote of the Syrian army twenty and two thousand men. 
And David put a garrison in Syria near Damascus; and they became tributary servants to David: and the Lord delivered David wherever he went. 
And David took the golden collars that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 
And David took out of Tibhath, and out of the chief cities of Hadadezer very much brass: of this Solomon made the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the brazen vessels. 
And Tou king of Hamath heard that David had smitten the whole force of Hadadezer king of Zobah. 
And he sent Hadoram his son to King David to ask how he was, and to congratulate him because he had fought against Hadadezer, and smitten him; for Tou was the enemy of Hadadezer. 
And all the golden and silver and brazen vessels, even these King David consecrated to the Lord, with the silver and the gold which he took from all the nations; from Edom, and Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek. 
And Abishai son of Zeruiah smote the Edomites in the Valley of Salt, eighteen thousand. 
And he put garrisons in the valley; and all the Edomites became David’s servants: and the Lord delivered David wherever he went. 
So David reigned over all Israel; and he executed judgment and justice to all his people. 
And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder. 
And Zadok son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech son of Abiathar, were the priests; and Shavsha was the scribe; 
and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethite and the Pelethite, and the sons of David were the chief deputies of the king. 
