Kings IV.
Chapter 15.
In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel Uzziah the son of Amaziah king of Judah began to reign. 
Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem. 
And he did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord, according to all things that Amaziah his father did. 
Only he took not away any of the high places: as yet the people sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
And the Lord plagued the king, and he was leprous till the day of his death; and he reigned in a separate house. And Jotham the king’s son was over the household, judging the people of the land. 
And the rest of the acts of Uzziah, and all that he did, are not these written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 
And Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead. 
In the thirty and eighth year of Uzziah king of Judah Zechariah the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in Samaria six months. 
And he did that which was evil in the eyes of the Lord, as his fathers had done: he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. 
And Shallum the son of Jabesh and others conspired against him, and they smote him in Ibleam, and slew him, and he reigned in his stead. 
And the rest of the acts of Zechariah, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
This was the word of the Lord which he spoke to Jehu, saying, Thy sons of the fourth generation shall sit upon the throne of Israel: and it was so. 
And Shallum the son of Jabesh reigned: and in the thirty and ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah began Shallum to reign a full month in Samaria. 
And Menahem the son of Gadi went up out of Tirzah, and came to Samaria, and smote Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, and slew him. 
And the rest of the acts of Shallum, and his conspiracy wherein he was engaged, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
Then Menahem smote both Tiphsah and all that was in it, and its borders extending beyond Tirzah, because they opened not to him: and he smote it, and ripped up the women with child. 
In the thirty and ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah began Menahem the son of Gadi to reign over Israel in Samaria ten years. 
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord: he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who led Israel to sin. 
In his days went up Pul king of the Assyrians against the land: and Menahem gave to Pul a thousand talents of silver to aid him with his power. 
And Menahem raised the silver by a tax upon Israel, even on every mighty man in wealth, to give to the king of the Assyrians, fifty shekels levied on each man; and the king of the Assyrians departed, and remained not there in the land. 
And the rest of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, behold, are not these written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
And Menahem slept with his fathers; and Pekahiah his son reigned in his stead. 
In the fiftieth year of Uzziah king of Judah, began Pekahiah the son of Menahem to reign over Israel in Samaria two years. 
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. 
And Pekah the son of Remaliah, his officer, conspired against him, and smote him in Samaria in the front of the king’s house, with Argob and Arieh, and with him there were fifty men of the four hundred: and he slew him, and reigned in his stead. 
And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and all that he did, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
In the fifty-second year of Uzziah king of Judah began Pekah the son of Remaliah to reign over Israel in Samaria twenty years. 
And he did that which was evil in the eyes of the Lord: he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who led Israel to sin. 
In the days of Pekah king of Israel came Tiglath-pileser king of the Assyrians, and took Ijon, and Abel, and Beth-maacah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, even all the land of Naphtali, and carried them away to the Assyrians. 
And Hoshea son of Elah formed a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah, and smote him, and slew him, and reigned in his stead, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah. 
And the rest of the acts of Pekah, and all that he did, behold, these are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. 
In the second year of Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel began Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah to reign. 
Twenty and five years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Jerusha daughter of Zadok. 
And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all things that his father Uzziah did. 
Nevertheless he took not away the high places: as yet the people sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. He built the upper gate of the Lord’s house. 
And the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, are not these written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 
In those days the Lord began to send forth against Judah Rezin king of Syria, and Pekah son of Remaliah. 
And Jotham slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Ahaz his son reigned in his stead. 
