Joshua.
Chapter 15.
And the borders of the tribe of Judah according to their families were from the borders of Edom from the wilderness of Zin, as far as Kadesh southward. 
And their borders were from the south as far as a part of the salt sea from the high country that extends southward. 
And they proceed before the ascent of Akrabbim, and go out round Zin, and go up from the south to Kadesh-barnea; and go out to Hezron, and proceed up to Addar, and go out by the way that is west of Kadesh. 
And they go out to Azmon, and issue at the Valley of Egypt; and the termination of its boundaries shall be at the sea: these are their boundaries southward. 
And their boundaries eastward are all the salt sea as far as Jordan; and their borders from the north, and from the border of the sea, and from part of Jordan— 
the borders go up to Beth-hoglah, and they go along from the north to Beth-arabah, and the borders go on up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben. 
And the borders continue on to the fourth part of the Valley of Achor, and go down to Gilgal, which is before the approach of Adummim, which is southward in the valley, and terminate at the water of the fountain of the sun; and their going forth shall be the fountain of Rogel. 
And the borders go up to the Valley of Hinnom, behind Jebus southward; this is Jerusalem: and the borders terminate at the top of the mountain, which is before the Valley of Hinnom toward the sea, which is by the side of the land of Rephaim northward. 
And the border going forth from the top of the mountain terminates at the fountain of the water of Nephtoah, and terminates at Mount Ephron; and the border will lead to Baalah; this is the city of Jearim. 
And the border will go round from Baalah to the sea, and will go on to the mount of Seir behind the city of Jearim northward; this is Chesalon: and it will come down to the city of the Sun, and will go on to the south. 
And the border terminates behind Ekron northward, and the borders will terminate at Shikkeron, and the borders will go on to the south, and will terminate at Jabneel, and the issue of the borders will be at the sea; and their borders shall be toward the sea, the great sea shall be the boundary. 
These are the borders of the children of Judah round about according to their families. 
And to Caleb the son of Jephunneh he gave a portion in the midst of the children of Judah by the command of God; and Joshua gave him the city of Arba the metropolis of Anak; this is Hebron. 
And Caleb the son of Jephunneh destroyed thence the three sons of Anak, Sheshai, and Talmai, and Ahiman. 
And Caleb went up thence to the inhabitants of Debir; and the name of Debir before was the city of Letters. 
And Caleb said, Whosoever shall take and destroy the city of Letters, and master it, to him will I give my daughter Achsah to wife. 
And Othniel the son of Kenaz the brother of Caleb took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife. 
And it came to pass as she went out that she counseled him, saying, I will ask of my father a field; and she cried from off her ass; and Caleb said to her, What is it? 
And she said to him, Give me a blessing, for thou hast set me in the land of Negeb; give me Botthanis: and he gave her Gonaethla the upper, and Gonaethla the lower. 
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Judah. 
And their cities were cities belonging to the tribe of the children of Judah on the borders of Edom by the wilderness, and Kabzeel, and Ara, and Asor, 
and Icam, and Regma, and Aruel, 
and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Maenam, 
and Balmaenan, and their villages, 
and the cities of Hezron, this is Hazor, 
and Sen, and Shema, and Moladah, 
and Seri, and Beth-pelet, 
and Cholaseola, and Beersheba; and their villages, and their hamlets, 
Baalah and Bacoc, and Ezem, 
and Eltolad, and Bethel, and Hormah, 
and Ziklag, and Macharim, and Sansannah, 
and Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Eromoth; twenty-nine cities, and their villages. 
In the plain country Eshtaol, and Zorah, and Ashnah, 
and Ramen, and Tano, and Iluthoth, and Maeani, 
and Jarmuth, and Adullam, and Membra, and Socoh, and Azekah. 
And Shaaraim and Gederah, and its villages; fourteen cities, and their villages; 
Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdal-gad, 
and Dilean, and Mizpeh, and Joktheel, 
and Basedoth, and Ideadalea; 
and Chabra, and Maches, and Maachos, 
and Gederoth, and Beth-dagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah: sixteen cities, and their villages; 
Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan, 
and Ashnah, and Nezib, 
and Keilah, and Akiezi, and Kezib, and Bathesar, and Aelom: ten cities, and their villages; 
Ekron and her villages, and their hamlets: 
from Ekron, Gemna, and all the cities that are near Asedoth; and their villages. 
Ashdod, and her villages, and her hamlets; Gaza, and its villages and its hamlets as far as the river of Egypt, and the great sea is the boundary. 
And in the hill country Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh, 
and Dannah and the city of Letters, this is Debir; 
and Anab, and Esh, and Man, and Aesam, 
and Goshen, and Holon, and Channa, and Giloh: eleven cities, and their villages; 
Aerem, and Remna, and Soma, 
and Janim, and Beth-achu, and Aphekah, 
and Humtah, and the city Arba, this is Hebron, and Zior: nine cities, and their villages: 
Maon, and Carmel, and Ziph, and Juttah, 
and Jezreel, and Aricam, and Zacanaim, 
and Gibeah, and Timnah; nine cities, and their villages; 
Halhul, and Beth-zur, and Gedor, 
and Maarath, and Beth-anoth, and Eltekon; six cities, and their villages; 
Theco, and Ephrath, this is Bethlehem, and Phagor, and Aetan, and Culon, and Tatam, and Thobes, and Carem, and Galem, and Thether, and Manocho: eleven cities, and their villages, 
Kiriath-baal, this is the city of Jearim, and Sotheba: two cities, and their villages: 
and Baddargeis, and Beth-arabah, and Aenon; 
and Aeochioza, and Nibshan, and the cities of Sadon, and Engedi; seven cities, and their villages. 
And the Jebusite dwelt in Jerusalem, and the children of Judah could not destroy them; and the Jebusites dwelt in Jerusalem to this day. 
