Deuteronomy.
Chapter 3.
And we turned and went by the way leading to Bashan; and Og the king of Bashan came out to meet us, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei. 
And the Lord said to me, Fear him not, for I have delivered him, and all his people, and all his land, into thy hands; and thou shalt do to him as thou didst to Sihon king of the Amorites who dwelt in Heshbon. 
And the Lord our God delivered him into our hands, even Og the king of Bashan, and all his people; and we smote him until we left none of his seed. 
And we mastered all his cities at that time; there was not a city which we took not from them; sixty cities, all the country round about Argob, belonging to King Og in Bashan: 
all strong cities, lofty walls, gates and bars; besides the very many cities of the Perizzites. 
We utterly destroyed them as we dealt with Sihon the king of Heshbon, so we utterly destroyed every city in order, and the women and the children, 
and all the cattle; and we took for a prey to ourselves the spoil of the cities. 
And we took at that time the land out of the hands of the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond Jordan, extending from the brook of Arnon even unto Hermon. 
The Phoenicians call Hermon Sirion, but the Amorite has called it Senir. 
All the cities of Misor, and all Gilead, and all Bashan as far as Salecah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan. 
For only Og the king of Bashan was left of the Rephaim: behold, his bed was a bed of iron; behold, it is in the chief city of the children of Ammon; the length of it is nine cubits, and the breadth of it four cubits, according to the cubit of a man. 
And we inherited that land at that time from Aroer, which is by the border of the torrent Arnon, and half the mount of Gilead; and I gave his cities to Reuben and to Gad. 
And the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan the kingdom of Og I gave to the half-tribe of Manasseh, and all the country round about Argob, all that Bashan; it shall be accounted the land of Rephaim. 
And Jair the son of Manasseh took all the country round about Argob as far as the borders of Geshur and Maacath: he called them by his name Bashan-havvoth-jair until this day. 
And to Machir I gave Gilead. 
And to Reuben and to Gad I gave the land under Gilead as far as the brook of Arnon, the border between the brook and as far as Jabbok; the brook is the border to the children of Ammon. 
And Arabah and Jordan are the boundary of Chinnereth, even to the Sea of Arabah, the salt sea under Asedoth Pisgah eastward. 
And I charged you at that time, saying, The Lord your God has given you this land by lot; arm yourselves, every one that is powerful, and go before your brethren the children of Israel. 
Only your wives and your children and your cattle (I know that ye have much cattle), let them dwell in your cities which I have given you; 
until the Lord your God give your brethren rest, as also he has given to you, and they also shall inherit the land, which the Lord our God gives them on the other side of Jordan; then ye shall return, each one to his inheritance which I have given you. 
And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Your eyes have seen all things, which the Lord our God did to these two kings: so shall the Lord our God do to all the kingdoms against which thou crossest over thither. 
Ye shall not be afraid of them, because the Lord our God himself shall fight for you. 
And I besought the Lord at that time, saying, 
Lord God, thou hast begun to show to thy servant thy strength, and thy power, and thy mighty hand, and thy high arm: for what God is there in heaven or on the earth, who will do as thou hast done, and according to thy might? 
I will therefore go over and see this good land that is beyond Jordan, this good mountain and Antilebanon. 
And the Lord because of you did not regard me, and hearkened not to me; and the Lord said to me, Let it suffice thee, speak not of this matter to me anymore. 
Go up to the top of the quarried rock, and look with thine eyes westward, and northward, and southward, and eastward, and behold it with thine eyes, for thou shalt not go over this Jordan. 
And charge Joshua, and strengthen him, and encourage him; for he shall go before the face of this people, and he shall give them the inheritance of all the land which thou hast seen. 
And we abode in the valley near the house of Peor. 
