Chronicles I.
Chapter 13.
And David took counsel with the captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, even with every commander. 
And David said to the whole congregation of Israel, If it seem good to you, and it should be prospered by the Lord our God, let us send to our brethren that are left in all the land of Israel, and let the priests the Levites who are with them in the cities of their possession come, and let them be gathered to us. 
And let us bring over to us the ark of our God; for men have not inquired at it since the days of Saul. 
And all the congregation said that they would do thus; for the saying was right in the eyes of all the people. 
So David assembled all Israel, from the borders of Egypt even to the entering in of Hamath, to bring in the ark of God from the city of Jearim. 
And David brought it up: and all Israel went up to the city of David, which belonged to Judah, to bring up thence the ark of the Lord God who sits between the cherubim, whose name is called on it. 
And they set the ark of God on a new wagon brought out of the house of Abinadab: and Uzzah and his brethren drove the wagon. 
And David and all Israel were playing before the Lord with all their might, and that together with singers, and with harps, and with lutes, with timbrels, and with cymbals, and with trumpets. 
And they came as far as the threshing floor: and Uzzah put forth his hand to hold the ark, because the bullock moved it from its place. 
And the Lord was very angry with Uzzah, and smote him there, because of his stretching forth his hand upon the ark: and he died there before God. 
And David was dispirited, because the Lord had made a breach on Uzzah: and he called that place the Breach of Uzzah until this day. 
And David feared God that day, saying, How shall I bring the ark of God in to myself? 
So David brought not the ark home to himself into the city of David, but he turned it aside into the house of Obed-edom the Gittite. 
And the ark of God abode in the house of Obed-edom three months: and God blessed Obed-edom and all that he had. 
