Joshua.
Chapter 21.
And the heads of the families of the sons of Levi drew near to Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua the son of Nun, and to the heads of families of the tribes of Israel. 
And they spoke to them in Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, The Lord gave commandment by Moses to give us cities to dwell in, and the country round about for our cattle. 
So the children of Israel gave to the Levites in their inheritance by the command of the Lord the cities and the country round. 
And the lot came out for the children of Kohath; and the sons of Aaron, the priests the Levites, had by lot thirteen cities out of the tribe of Judah, and out of the tribe of Simeon, and out of the tribe of Benjamin. 
And to the sons of Kohath that were left were given by lot ten cities, out of the tribe of Ephraim, and out of the tribe of Dan, and out of the half tribe of Manasseh. 
And the sons of Gershon had thirteen cities, out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the half tribe of Manasseh in Bashan. 
And the sons of Merari according to their families had by lot twelve cities, out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun. 
And the children of Israel gave to the Levites the cities and their suburbs, as the Lord commanded Moses, by lot. 
And the tribe of the children of Judah, and the tribe of the children of Simeon, and part of the tribe of the children of Benjamin gave these cities, and they were assigned 
to the sons of Aaron of the family of Kohath of the sons of Levi, for the lot fell to these. 
And they gave to them Kiriath-arba the metropolis of the sons of Anak; this is Hebron in the mountain country of Judah, and the suburbs round it. 
But the lands of the city, and its villages Joshua gave to the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh for a possession. 
And to the sons of Aaron he gave the city of refuge for the slayer, Hebron, and the suburbs belonging to it; and Libnah and the suburbs belonging to it; 
and Aelom and its suburbs; and Eshtemoa and its suburbs; 
and Holon and its suburbs; and Debir and its suburbs; 
and Asa and its suburbs; and Tany and its suburbs; and Beth-shemesh and its suburbs: nine cities from these two tribes. 
And from the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon and its suburbs; and Gatheth and its suburbs; 
and Anathoth and its suburbs; and Gamala and its suburbs; four cities. 
All the cities of the sons of Aaron the priests, thirteen. 
And to the families, even the sons of Kohath the Levites, that were left of the sons of Kohath, there was given their priests’ city, 
out of the tribe of Ephraim; and they gave them the slayer’s city of refuge, Shechem, and its suburbs, and Gezer and its appendages, and its suburbs; 
and Beth-horon and its suburbs: four cities: 
and of the tribe of Dan, Elteke and its suburbs; and Gibbethon and its suburbs: 
and Aijalon and its suburbs; and Gath-rimmon and its suburbs: four cities. 
And out of the half tribe of Manasseh, Taanach and its suburbs; and Jebatha and its suburbs; two cities. 
In all were given ten cities, and the suburbs of each belonging to them, to the families of the sons of Kohath that remained. 
And Joshua gave to the sons of Gershon the Levites out of the other half tribe of Manasseh cities set apart for the slayers, Golan in the country of Bashan, and its suburbs; and Beeshterah and its suburbs; two cities. 
And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishion and its suburbs; and Daberath and its suburbs; 
and Jarmuth and its suburbs; and the well of Letters, and its suburbs; four cities. 
And out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal and its suburbs; and Abdon and its suburbs; 
and Helkath and its suburbs; and Rehob and its suburbs; four cities. 
And of the tribe of Naphtali, the city set apart for the slayer, Kedesh in Galilee, and its suburbs; and Hammoth, and its suburbs; and Themmon and its suburbs; three cities. 
All the cities of Gershon according to their families were thirteen cities. 
And to the family of the sons of Merari the Levites that remained, he gave out of the tribe of Zebulun, Maan and its suburbs; and Kadesh and its suburbs, 
and Sella and its suburbs: three cities. 
And beyond Jordan over against Jericho, out of the tribe of Reuben, the city of refuge for the slayer, Bezer in the wilderness; Miso and its suburbs; and Jahaz and its suburbs; 
and Kedemoth and its suburbs; and Mephaath and its suburbs; four cities. 
And out of the tribe of Gad the city of refuge for the slayer, both Ramoth in Gilead, and its suburbs; Camin and its suburbs; 
and Heshbon and its suburbs; and Jazer and its suburbs: the cities were four in all. 
All these cities were given to the sons of Merari according to the families of them that were left out of the tribe of Levi; and their limits were the twelve cities. 
All the cities of the Levites in the midst of the possession of the children of Israel, were forty-eight cities, 
and their suburbs round about these cities: a city and the suburbs round about the city to all these cities: 
and Joshua ceased dividing the land by their borders: 
and the children of Israel gave a portion to Joshua because of the commandment of the Lord: they gave him the city which he asked: they gave him Timnath-serah in Mount Ephraim; 
and Joshua built the city, and dwelt in it: 
and Joshua took the knives of stone, wherewith he circumcised the children of Israel that were born in the desert by the way, and put them in Timnath-serah. 
So the Lord gave to Israel all the land which he swore to give to their fathers: and they inherited it, and dwelt in it. 
And the Lord gave them rest round about, as he swore to their fathers: not one of all their enemies maintained his ground against them; the Lord delivered all their enemies into their hands. 
There failed not one of the good things which the Lord spoke to the children of Israel; all came to pass. 
