Esther (Greek).
Chapter 6.
But the Lord removed sleep from the king that night: and he told his servant to bring in the books, the registers of daily events, to read to him. 
And he found the records written concerning Mordecai, how he had told the king concerning the two chamberlains of the king, when they were keeping guard, and sought to lay hands on Artaxerxes. 
And the king said, What honor or favor have we done to Mordecai? And the king’s servants said, Thou hast not done anything to him. 
And while the king was inquiring about the kindness of Mordecai, behold, Haman was in the court. And the king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman was come in to speak to the king, that he should hang Mordecai on the gallows, which he had prepared. 
And the king’s servants said, Behold, Haman stands in the court. And the king said, Call him. 
And the king said to Haman, What shall I do to the man whom I wish to honor? And Haman said within himself, Whom would the king honor but myself? 
and he said to the king, As for the man whom the king wishes to honor, 
let the king’s servants bring the robe of fine linen which the king puts on, and the horse on which the king rides, 
and let him give it to one of the king’s noble friends, and let him array the man whom the king loves; and let him mount him on the horse, and proclaim through the street of the city, saying, Thus shall it be done to every man whom the king honors. 
Then the king said to Haman, Thou hast well said: so do to Mordecai the Jew, who waits in the palace, and let not a word of what thou hast spoken be neglected. 
So Haman took the robe and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai, and mounted him on the horse, and went through the street of the city, and proclaimed, saying, Thus shall it be to every man whom the king wishes to honor. 
And Mordecai returned to the palace: but Haman went home mourning, and having his head covered. 
And Haman related the events that had befallen him to Zeresh his wife, and to his friends: and his friends and his wife said to him, If Mordecai be of the race of the Jews, and thou hast begun to be humbled before him, thou wilt assuredly fall, and thou wilt not be able to withstand him, for the living God is with him. 
While they were yet speaking, the chamberlains arrived, to hasten Haman to the banquet which Esther had prepared. 
