Chronicles I.
Chapter 4.
And the sons of Judah; Perez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, Shobal, 
and Reaiah his son; and Shobal begot Jahath; and Jahath begot Ahumai, and Lahad: these are the generations of the Zorathites. 
And these are the sons of Etam; Jezreel and Ishma, and Idbash: and their sister’s name was Hazzelelponi. 
And Penuel the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah: these are the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah, the father of Bethlehem. 
And Ashhur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Aoda and Thoada. 
And Aoda bore to him Ochaia, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari: all these were the sons of Aoda. 
And the sons of Thoada; Zereth, and Izhar, and Ethnan. 
And Koz begot Anub, and Zobebah, and the progeny of the brother of Rechab, the son of Jarin. 
And Jabez was more famous than his brethren; and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, I have born as a sorrowful one. 
And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, O that thou wouldest indeed bless me, and enlarge my coasts, and that thy hand might be with me, and that thou wouldest make me know that thou wilt not grieve me! And God granted him all that he asked. 
And Chelub the father of Ascha begot Mehir; he was the father of Eshton. 
He begot Beth-rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the founder of the city of Nahash the brother of Eselom the Kenizzite: these were the men of Recah. 
And the sons of Kenaz; Othniel, and Seraiah: and the sons of Othniel; Hathath. 
And Meonothai begot Ophrah: and Seraiah begot Jobab, the father of Ageaddair, for they were artificers. 
And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh; Iru, Elah, and Naam: and the sons of Elah, Kenaz. 
And the sons of Jehallelel, Ziph, and Ziphah, and Tiria, and Asarel. 
And the sons of Esrah; Jether, Mered, and Epher, and Jalon: and Jether begot Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa. 
And his wife, that is Adia, bore Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah: and these are the sons of Betthia the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mored took. 
And the sons of the wife of Hodiah the sister of Naham the father of Keilah; Garmi, and Eshtemoa the Maacathite. 
And the sons of Shimon; Amnon, and Rinnah the son of Hanan, and Tilon: and the sons of Ishi, Zoheth, and the sons of Zoheth. 
The sons of Shelah the son of Judah; Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the offspring of the family of Ephrathabac belonging to the house of Ashbea. 
And Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who dwelt in Moab, and he changed their names to Abederin and Athukiim. 
These are the potters who dwelt in Netaim and Gederah with the king: they grew strong in his kingdom, and dwelt there. 
The sons of Simeon; Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul: 
Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son: 
Hammuel his son, Sabud his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son. 
Shimei had sixteen sons, and six daughters; and his brethren had not many sons, neither did all their families multiply as the sons of Judah. 
And they dwelt in Beersheba, and Moladah, and in Hazar-shaul, 
and in Bilhah, and in Ezem, and in Tolad, 
and in Bethuel, and in Hormah, and in Ziklag, 
and in Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susim, and the house of Biri-shaaraim: these were their cities until the time of King David. 
And their villages were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities. 
And all their villages were round about these cities, as far as Baal: this was their possession, and their distribution. 
And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah the son of Amaziah; 
and Joel, and Jehu the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel; 
and Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah; 
and Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah. 
These went by the names of princes in their families, and they increased abundantly in their fathers’ households. 
And they went till they came to Gedor, to the east of Gai, to seek pasture for their cattle. 
And they found abundant and good pastures, and the land before them was wide, and there was peace and quietness; for there were some of the children of Ham who dwelt there before. 
And these who are written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and they smote the people’s houses, and the Meunites whom they found there, and utterly destroyed them until this day: and they dwelt in their place, because there was pasture there for their cattle. 
And some of them, even of the sons of Simeon, went to Mount Seir, even five hundred men; and Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, sons of Ishi, were their rulers. 
And they smote the remnant that were left of Amalek, until this day. 
