Genesis.
Chapter 25.
And Abraham again took a wife, whose name was Keturah. 
And she bore to him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. 
And Jokshan begot Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were the Asshurim and the Letushim, and Leummim. 
And the sons of Midian were Ephah and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah; all these were sons of Keturah. 
But Abraham gave all his possessions to Isaac his son. 
But to the sons of his concubines Abraham gave gifts, and he sent them away from his son Isaac, while he was yet living, to the east into the country of the east. 
And these were the years of the days of the life of Abraham as many as he lived, a hundred and seventy-five years. 
And Abraham failing died in a good old age, an old man and full of days, and was added to his people. 
And Isaac and Ishmael his sons buried him in the double cave, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is over against Mamre: 
even the field and the cave which Abraham bought of the sons of Heth; there they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife. 
And it came to pass after Abraham was dead, that God blessed Isaac his son, and Isaac dwelt by the well of the vision. 
And these are the generations of Ishmael the son of Abraham, whom Hagar the Egyptian the handmaid of Sarah bore to Abraham. 
And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, according to the names of their generations. The firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and Kedar, and Abdeel, and Mibsam, 
and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 
and Hadad, and Tema, and Jetur, and Naphish, and Kedemah. 
These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names in their tents and in their dwellings, twelve princes according to their nations. 
And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, a hundred and thirty-seven years; and he failed and died, and was added to his fathers. 
And he dwelt from Havilah to Shur, which is opposite Egypt, until one comes to the Assyrians; he dwelt in the presence of all his brethren. 
And these are the generations of Isaac the son of Abraham. 
Abraham begot Isaac. And Isaac was forty years old when he took to wife Rebekah, daughter of Bethuel the Syrian, out of Syrian Mesopotamia, sister of Laban the Syrian. 
And Isaac prayed the Lord concerning Rebekah his wife, because she was barren; and the Lord heard him, and his wife Rebekah conceived in her womb. 
And the babes leaped within her; and she said, If it will be so with me, why is this to me? And she went to inquire of the Lord. 
And the Lord said to her, There are two nations in thy womb, And two peoples shall be separated from thy belly, And one people shall excel the other, And the elder shall serve the younger. 
And the days were fulfilled that she should be delivered, and she had twins in her womb. 
And the first came out red, hairy all over like a skin; and she called his name Esau. 
And after this came forth his brother, and his hand took hold of the heel of Esau; and she called his name Jacob. And Isaac was sixty years old when Rebekah bore them. 
And the lads grew, and Esau was a man skilled in hunting, dwelling in the country, and Jacob a simple man, dwelling in a house. 
And Isaac loved Esau, because his venison was his food, but Rebekah loved Jacob. 
And Jacob cooked pottage, and Esau came from the plain, fainting. 
And Esau said to Jacob, Let me taste of that red pottage, because I am fainting; therefore his name was called Edom. 
And Jacob said to Esau, Sell me this day thy birthright. 
And Esau said, Behold, I am going to die, and for what good does this birthright belong to me? 
And Jacob said to him, Swear to me this day; and he swore to him; and Esau sold his birthright to Jacob. 
And Jacob gave bread to Esau, and pottage of lentils; and he ate and drank, and he arose and departed; so Esau slighted his birthright. 
