Ezra and Nehemiah.
Chapter 21.
And the chiefs of the people dwelt in Jerusalem: and the rest of the people cast lots, to bring one of every ten to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city, and nine parts in the other cities. 
And the people blessed all the men that volunteered to dwell in Jerusalem. 
Now these are the chiefs of the province who dwelt in Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah; every man dwelt in his possession in their cities: Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the Nathinim, and the children of the servants of Solomon. 
And there dwelt in Jerusalem some of the children of Judah, and of the children of Benjamin. Of the children of Judah; Athaiah son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, and some of the sons of Perez; 
and Maaseiah son of Baruch, son of Col-hozeh, son of Hazaiah, son of Adaiah, son of Joiarib, son of Zechariah, son of Shiloh. 
All the sons of Perez who dwelt in Jerusalem were four hundred and sixty-eight men of might. 
And these were the children of Benjamin; Sallu son of Meshullam, son of Joed, son of Pedaiah, son of Kolaiah, son of Maaseiah, son of Ithiel, son of Jeshaiah. 
And after him Gebe, Seli, nine hundred and twenty-eight. 
And Joel son of Zichri was overseer over them: and Judah son of Hassenuah was second in the city. 
Of the priests: both Jedaiah son of Joiarib, and Jachin. 
Seraiah, son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, was over the house of God. 
And their brethren doing the work of the house were eight hundred and twenty-two: and Adaiah son of Jeroham, son of Pelaliah, son of Amzi, son of Zechariah, son of Pashhur, son of Malchijah, 
and his brethren, chiefs of families, two hundred and forty-two: and Amashsai son of Azarel, son of Meshillemoth, son of Immer, 
and his brethren, mighty men of war, a hundred and twenty-eight: and their overseer was Zabdiel son of one of the great men. 
And of the Levites; Shemaiah, son of Azrikam, 
Mattaniah son of Mica, and Jobeb son of Samui, 
two hundred and eighty-four. 
And the porters; Akkub, Talmon, and their brethren, a hundred and seventy-two. 
And the overseer of the Levites was the son of Bani, son of Uzzi, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mica. Of the sons of Asaph the singers some were over the house of God, 
for so was the king’s commandment concerning them. 
And Pethahiah son of Meshezabel was in attendance on the king in every matter for the people, 
and with regard to villages in their country district: and some of the children of Judah dwelt in Kiriath-arba, 
and in Jeshua, 
and in Beersheba: 
and their villages were Lachish and her lands: and they pitched their tents in Beersheba. 
And the children of Benjamin dwelt from Geba to Michmash. 
And of the Levites there were divisions to Judah and to Benjamin. 
