DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 27.
But as it was deemed (for) him to ship into Italy, they betook Paul with other keepers or with other men kept to a centurion, by (the) name (of) Julius, of the company of knights of the emperor. (And when it was decided that he should sail to Italy, they delivered Paul with other prisoners to a centurion, named Julius, from the Emperor’s cohort or regiment of soldiers.) 
And we went up into the ship of Adramyttium, and began to sail, and were borne about the places of Asia, while Aristarchus of Macedonia, Thessalonica, dwelled still with us. 
And in the day (pur)suing, we came to Sidon; and Julius treated courteously Paul, and suffered him to go to friends, and to do his needs or and to do the care of him. (And on the following day, we came to Sidon; and Julius treated Paul courteously, and allowed him to go to his friends, and to get his needs filled, or and for them to take care of him.) 
And when we removed from thence or And when we were taken up from thence, we under-sailed to Cyprus, for that (the) winds were contrary. 
And we sailed in the sea of Cilicia and Pamphylia, and came to Lystra, that is Lycia. 
And there the centurion found a ship of Alexandria, sailing into Italy, and putted us over into it. 
And when in many days we sailed slowly, and scarcely came against Cnidus, for the wind hindered us, we sailed to Crete, beside Salmone. 
And scarcely we sailed beside, and came into a place, that is called of good haven, to whom the city Lasea was nigh. 
And when much time was passed, and when sailing then was not secure, for that (the time of) fasting was passed, Paul comforted them (or Paul strengthened them), 
and said to them, Men, I see that (the) sailing beginneth to be with wrong and much harm, not only of the charge, and of the ship, but also of our lives, (or not only for the cargo, and for the ship, but also even for our own lives). 
But the centurion believed more to the governor, and to the lord of the ship, than to these things that were said of Paul. (But the centurion trusted more in what the captain and the owner of the ship said, than what was said by Paul.) 
And when the haven was not able for to dwell in (over) winter, full many ordained counsel to sail from thence, if on any manner or if in any manner they might come to Phenice, (for) to dwell in winter at the haven of Crete, which beholdeth to Africa, that is, (to the)southwest, and to Corum, that is, (to the)northwest. 
And when the south blew, they guessed them(selves) to hold purpose; and when they had removed or had taken up from Assos, they sailed to Crete. 
And not after much time, the wind Tifonyk, that is called (the) northeast, or (the) wind of tempest, was against it. 
And when the ship was ravished, and might not enforce against the wind or into the wind, when the ship was given (over) to the blowings of the wind, we were borne (And when the ship was snatched, or was seized, and could not endeavour against the wind, when the ship was given over to the blowing of the wind, we were borne) 
with course into an isle, that is called Cauda; and scarcely we might get a little boat (under control in these circumstances). (with course by an island called Cauda; and we were barely able to control the ship’s little boat under such circumstances.) 
And when this (little boat) was taken up, they used helps, girding together the ship; and dreaded (or and feared), lest they should fall into sandy places. And when the vessel was under-set, so they were borne. 
And for we were thrown with (a) strong tempest, in the day (pur)suing they made casting out. (And because we were tossed about by a strong tempest, on the following day they began to throw out the cargo.) 
And the third day with their hands they cast away the instruments of the ship. 
And when neither the sun neither the stars were seen by many days, and tempest not a little nighed, now all the hope of our health was done away. (And when neither the sun nor the stars were seen for many days, and a great tempest approached, now all the hope for our deliverance was gone.) 
And when much fasting had been, then Paul stood in the middle of them, and said, A! men or O! men, it behooved, when ye heard me, not to have taken away the ship from Crete, and get this wrong and (this) casting out. 
And now I counsel you to be of good comfort or of good heart, for loss of no person of you shall be or soothly there shall be loss of no soul of you, (no), except of the ship. 
For an angel of God, whose I am, and to whom I serve, stood nigh to me in this night, 
and said, Paul, dread thou not (or fear not); it behooveth thee to stand before the emperor or it behooveth thee to stand nigh to Caesar. And lo! God hath given to thee all that be in the ship with thee. 
For which thing, ye men, be of good comfort or be of good heart; for I believe to my God (or for I believe my God), that so it shall be, as it is said to me. 
And it behooveth us to come into some isle. 
But afterward that in the fourteen day the night came on us sailing in the stony sea (or But then on the fourteenth day when the night came upon us sailing on the stormy sea), about midnight the shipmen supposed some country to appear to them. 
And they cast down a plummet or Which sent down a plummet, and found twenty fathoms of deepness. And after a little they were departed from thence, and found fifteen fathoms. 
And they dreaded (or feared), lest we should have fallen into sharp places; and from the last part of the ship they sent (out) four anchors, and desired that the day had become. Soothly they dreaded, lest we should fall into sharp places; and from the last part of the ship they sent (out) four anchors, and desired that the day were made. 
And when the shipmen sought to flee from the ship, when they had sent a little boat into the sea (or when they had sent the little boat into the sea), under colour as they should begin to stretch forth the anchors from the former part of the ship, 
Paul said to the centurion and to the knights, But these dwell in the ship, ye may not be made safe. (Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, Unless these men stay on the ship, ye shall not be saved.) 
Then the knights cutted away the cords of the little boat, and suffered it to fall away. (So the soldiers cut away the cords of the little boat, and allowed it to fall away.) 
And when the day was come, Paul prayed all (the) men to take meat (or Paul beseeched all the men to have some food), and said, The fourteenth day this day ye abide, and dwell fasting, and take nothing. 
Wherefore I pray you to take meat, for your health, (or And so I beseech you to have some food, for your own well-being); for of none of you the hair of the head shall perish. 
And when he had said these things, Paul took bread, and did thankings to God in the sight of all (the) men (or and gave thanks to God before all the men); and when he had broken (it), he began to eat (it). 
And all were made of better comfort, or (were) made more patient, or hardy, and they took meat. (And all were strengthened, after they had eaten some food.) 
And we were all (the) men in the ship, two hundred seventy and six. 
And they were full-filled with meat, and discharged the ship, and cast (the) wheat into the sea. (And they were filled full with the food, and discharged the ship, and threw the wheat into the sea.) 
And when the day was come, they knew no land; and they beheld an haven that had a water-bank, into which they thought, if they might (or if they could), to bring up the ship. 
And when they had taken up the anchors, they betook them in to the sea (or they dropped them in the sea), and slacked together the jointures of (the) rudders. And with a little sail lifted up, by (the) blowing of the wind they went (forth) to the bank. 
And when we felled into a place of gravel gone all about with the sea, they hurtled the ship. And when the former part was fixed, it dwelled unmoveable, and the last part (of it) was broken of or by the strength of the sea. 
And the counsel of the knights’ was, to slay (the) men that were in (the) ward or in the keeping, lest any should escape, when he had swimmed out. (And the soldiers’ plan, or their thinking, was to kill the men who were in the hold, lest anyone would escape, after he had swam away.) 
But the centurion would keep Paul (alive), and forbade it to be done. And he commanded them that might swim, to go first into the sea, and escape, and go out to the land. 
And they bare some others on boards, (and) some on those things that were of the ship. And so it was done, that all the men escaped to the land. 
