LUKE.
Chapter 8.
And it was done afterward, and Jesus made journey by cities and castles (or by towns and villages), preaching and evangelizing the realm of God, and (the) twelve with him; 
and some women that were healed of wicked spirits and sicknesses, Mary, that is called Magdalene, of whom seven devils went out, 
and Joanna, the wife of Chuza, the procurator of Herod, and Susanna, and many others, that ministered to him of their riches, (or who served him out of their own resources, or with their own money). 
And when much people was come together, and men hied or hasted to him, from the cities, he said by a similitude, or by a likeness, or (an) example, (or by a parable), 
He that soweth, went out to sow his seed. And while he soweth, some fell beside the way, and was defouled (or and was defiled), and (the) birds of the air ate it. 
And other fell on a stone, and it sprang up (or and it sprouted), and dried, for it had not moisture or for it had no moisture. 
And other fell among thorns, and the thorns sprang up together, and strangled it. 
And other fell into good earth, and it sprang up, and made an hundredfold fruit. He said these things, and cried, He that hath ears of hearing, hear he. 
But his disciples asked him, what this parable was. 
And he said to them, To you it is granted to know the private or the mystery of the kingdom of God (or To you it is granted to know the secret of the Kingdom of God); but to other men (I speak) in parables, (so) that they seeing see not, and they hearing understand not. 
And this is the parable. The seed is God’s word; 
and they that be beside the way, be these that hear; and afterward the fiend cometh (or and afterward the Devil cometh), and taketh away the word from their heart(s), lest they believing be made safe (or lest they believe and be saved). 
But they that fell on a stone, be these that when they have heard, receive the word with joy. And these have no roots; for at a time they believe, and in time of temptation they go away (or but in the time of testing they go away). 
But that that fell among thorns, be these that heard, and (because) of (the) busynesses (or the concerns), and (the) riches, and (the) lusts of (this) life they go forth, and be strangled, and bring forth no fruit. 
But that that fell into good earth, be these that, in a good heart, and best, (or be those who, with a good and true heart), hear the word, and hold (it), and bring forth fruit in patience. 
No man lighteth a lantern, and covereth it with a vessel, or putteth it under a bed, (no) but on a candlestick, (so) that men that enter (can) see light. 
For there is no privy thing, which shall not be opened; neither hid thing, which shall not be known, and come into (the) open. (For there is nothing private, or secret, which shall not be made open; nor any hidden thing, which shall not be made known, and brought out into the open.) 
Therefore see ye, how ye hear; for it shall be given to him that hath, and whoever hath not, also that that he weeneth, or that he guesseth, (or that he thinketh), that he have, shall be taken away from him. 
And his mother and brethren came to him; and they might not come to him for the people. 
And it was told to him, Thy mother and thy brethren stand withoutforth, willing to see thee. (And he was told, Thy mother and thy brothers stand outside, desiring to see thee.) 
And he answered, and said to them, My mother and my brethren be these, that hear the word of God, and do it. 
And it was done in (or on) one of the days, he went up into a boat, and his disciples. And he said to them, Pass we over the sea (or Let us go over to the other side of the lake). And (so) they went up. 
And while they rowed, he slept. And a tempest of wind came down into the water, and they were driven hither and thither with waves, and were in peril. 
And they came nigh, and raised him, and said, Commander (or Master), we perish. And he rose up, and blamed the wind (or and rebuked the wind), and the tempest of the water; and it ceased, and peaceability was made. 
And he said to them, Where is your faith? Which dreading wondered, and said together, (or Who with fear and wonder, said to each other), Who, guessest thou, is this? for he commandeth to the winds and to the sea, and they obey to him. 
And they rowed to the country of Gadarenes, that is against Galilee (or that is opposite Galilee). 
And when he went out to the land, a man ran to him, that had a devil now(a) long time, and he was not clothed with cloth, neither dwelled in (a) house, but in sepulchres. (And when he got onto the land, a man ran over to him, who for a long time now had a demon, and he was not clothed with a cloak, nor lived in a house, but dwelt among the tombs.) 
This (man), when he saw Jesus, fell down before him, and he crying with a great voice said, (or and he cried with a loud voice, and said), What to me and to thee, Jesus, the Son of the Highest God? I beseech thee, that thou torment me not. 
For he (had) commanded the unclean spirit, that he should go out from the man. For he took him oft times, and he was bound with chains, and kept in stocks, and when the bonds were broken, he was led of the devil into desert (or he was led by the demon into the desert). 
And Jesus asked him, and said, What name is to thee? And he said, A legion; for many devils were entered into him, or for many devils had entered into him, (or for there were many demons in him). 
And they prayed him (or And they beseeched him), that he should not command them, that they should go into hell or that they should go into the deepness. 
And there was a flock of many swine or of many hogs pasturing in an hill, and they prayed him, that he should suffer them to enter into them. And he suffered them. (And there was a herd of many pigs at pasture on a hill, and they beseeched him, that he would allow them to enter into them. And he allowed them.) 
And so the devils went out from the man, and entered into the swine or into the hogs; and with a rush the flock went headlong into the pool or into the lake of water, and was drenched. (And so the demons went out of the man, and entered into the pigs; and with a rush the herd went headlong into the lake, and were drowned.) 
And when the herders saw this thing done, they fled, and told into the city, and into the towns. 
And they went out to see that thing that was done. And they came to Jesus, and they found the man sitting clothed, from whom the devils went out, and in whole mind at his feet; and they dreaded (or and they had great fear). 
And they that saw told to them, how he was made whole of the legion. (And they who saw it all, told them how he was healed from the legion of devils and demons.) 
And all the multitude of the country of Gadarenes prayed him, that he should go (away) from them, for they were held with great dread. And he went up into a boat, and turned again (to the other side). (And all the multitude from the countryside of Gadarenes beseeched him, that he would go away from them, for they were held with great fear. And so he went up into the boat, and returned to the other side.) 
And the man of whom the devils were gone out, or And the man of whom the fiends went out, prayed him, that he should be with him. Soothly Jesus left him (or let him go), and said, (And the man from whom the demons went out, beseeched him, that he could be with him. But Jesus sent him away, and said,) 
Go again into thine house, and tell how great things God hath done to thee. And he went through all the city, and preached, how great things Jesus had done to him. (Return to thine house, and to thy people, and tell them what great things God hath done for thee. And so he went through all the city, and preached, what great things Jesus had done for him.) 
And it was done, when Jesus was gone (home) again or when Jesus had gone (home) again, the people received him; for all were abiding him (or for all of them were waiting for him). 
And lo! a man, to whom the name was Jairus, and he was a prince of a synagogue (or and he was a leader of a synagogue); and he fell down at the feet of Jesus, and prayed him (or beseeched him), that he should enter into his house, 
for he had but one daughter or an only daughter, almost of twelve years old, and she was dead. And it befell, the while he went, he was thronged of the people. (for he had an only daughter, almost twelve years old, and she was dying. And it befell, that while he went, he was thronged by the people.) 
And a woman that had a flux of blood (for) twelve years, and had spended all her chattel or all her substance in leeches, and might not be cured of any, (And there was a woman who had a flowing, or an issue, of blood for twelve years, and had spent all of her resources on physicians, and could not be cured by any of them,) 
and she came nigh behind, and touched the hem of his cloth, and anon the flux of her blood ceased. (and she came up close behind him, and touched the hem of his cloak, and at once the flowing, or the issue, of her blood ceased.) 
And Jesus said, Who is it that touched me? And when all men denied (it), Peter said, and they that were with him, Commander (or Master), the people thrust or throng and dis-ease thee, and thou sayest, Who touched me? 
And Jesus said, Some man hath touched me, for I have known that virtue went out of me. (And Jesus said, Someone hath touched me, for I know that power hath gone out of me.) 
And the woman seeing, that it was not hid from him, came trembling, and fell down at his feet, and for what cause she had touched him she showed before all the people, and how anon she was healed (or and how at once she was healed). 
And he said to her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee safe, (or Daughter, thy faith hath saved thee, or thy faith hath healed thee); go thou in peace. 
And yet while he spake, a man came from the (house of the) prince of the synagogue, and said to him, Thy daughter is dead, do not thou travail the Master (any further). (And while he spoke, a man came from the house of the leader of the synagogue, and said to him, Thy daughter is now dead, or Thy daughter hath died, so do not further trouble or bother the Teacher.) 
And when this word was heard, Jesus answered to the father of the damsel, Do not thou dread, but believe thou only or but only believe thou, and she shall be safe, (or Do not fear, but only believe, and she shall be saved, or she shall be healed). 
And when he came to the house, he suffered no man to enter with him, no but Peter and John and James, and the father and the mother of the damsel. (And when he came to the house, he did not allow anyone to go in with him, except for Peter and John and James, and the father and the mother of the young girl.) 
And all wept, and bewailed her. And he said, Do not ye weep, for the damsel is not dead, but (only) sleepeth. 
And they scorned him, and knew that she was dead. 
But he held her hand, and cried, and said, Damsel, rise up. 
And her spirit turned again, and she rose anon, (or And her spirit returned, and she got up at once). And he commanded (them) to give to her (something) to eat. 
And her father and mother wondered greatly; and he commanded them, that they should not say to any man(or to anyone) that thing that was done. 
