TOBIT.
Chapter 6.
And Tobias went forth, and a dog pursued him and an hound followed him, and he dwelled, or abode, in the first dwelling of his journey beside the flood of Tigris (or by the Tigris River). 
And he went forth to wash his feet; and lo! a great fish went out to devour him. 
Which fish Tobias dreaded, and cried with (a) great (or a loud) voice, and said, Sire, he/this fish assaileth me. 
And the angel said to him, Take the fish by the gill, or by the jawor Catch his fin, and draw him to thee. And when he had done this thing, he drew the fish into a dry place, and it began to sprawl, or to quop, (or to flap) before his feet. 
Then the angel said to him, Draw out the entrails of this fish or Open this fish, and keep to thee (or keep for thyself) his heart and gall and maw; for these things be needful to (or for) medicines profitably. 
And when he had done this thing, he roasted the flesh thereof, and they took (it) with them in (or on) the way; and they salted (the) other things, that should suffice to them in (or on) the way, till they came into Rages, the city of Media. 
Then Tobias asked the angel, and said to him, Azarias, brother, I beseech thee, that thou say to me, what remedy these things shall have, which thou hast commanded to be kept of the fish. 
And the angel answered, and said to him, If thou puttest a little part of his heart upon hot coals, the smoke thereof driveth away all kind of fiends or devils, either or from man either from woman, so that it nigh (or approach) no more to them. 
And the gall is much worthy to anoint eyes, in which is a web or rime, and they shall be healed or be whole. 
And Tobias said to him, Where wilt thou, that we dwell, or abide? 
And the angel answered, and said, (Living) Here is a man, Raguel by name, a nigh man of thy lineage, and he hath a daughter, Sarah by name; but neither he hath (a) male child neither any other female or maid child, except her. 
All his chattel or all his substance is due to thee; and it behooveth thee (to) have her to (or for)thy wife. 
Therefore ask thou her of her father (or And so ask thou her father for her); and he shall give her (for) a wife to thee. 
Then Tobias answered, and said, I have heard, that she was given to seven husbands, and all they be dead; but I have heard this also, that a fiend killed them or a devil slew them. 
And therefore I dreaded, lest per-adventure also these things befall to me; and since I am an only son to my father and mother, I dread to put down to hell their eld or old(age) with dreariness (or I fear to drive them to the grave through great sorrow). 
Then the angel Raphael said to him, Hear thou me, and I shall show to thee, who they be, over whom the fiend or the devil hath mastery; 
certainly the fiend hath power over them, that take so their weddings or (their) wedlock, that they close out God from them, and from their mind; the fiend or the devil hath power over them, that give so (much) attention to their lechery or to their lusts, as an horse and a mule do, that have none understanding. 
But when thou hast taken her to (or as thy) wife, enter into thy bed-place, and by three days be thou continent from her, or be thou chaste abstaining thee from her in all fleshly lust, and to none other thing thou shalt give atten-tion (to) with her, but only to prayers. 
Forsooth in that first night, when the maw of the fish is burnt, the fiend or the devil shall be driven away. 
And in the second night, thou shalt be received or admitted in(to) the coupling, or (the) marriage (covenant), of (the) holy patriarchs. 
And in the third night, thou shalt get blessing, that whole (or healthy) sons be engendered of (or by) you. 
But when the third night is passed, (then) thou shalt take the virgin or the maiden with the dread of the Lord, and thou shalt be led more by the love of begetting of children than by lust, (so) that in the seed of Abraham thou get blessing in sons. 
