PHILIPPIANS.
Chapter 1.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the holy men in Christ Jesus, (or to all the saints, or to all of God’s people, in the Messiah Jesus), that be at Philippi, with (the) bishops and (the) deacons, 
grace and peace to you of God our Father, and of the Lord Jesus Christ. (grace and peace be to you from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.) 
I do thankings to my God in all mind of you (I give thanks to my God in every remembrance of you) 
(for)evermore in all my prayers for all (of) you with joy, and make beseeching (always in all my prayers for all of you, and make beseeching) 
on your communing in the gospel of Christ, from the first day till now; (regarding your sharing in the Gospel, or the Good News, of the Messiah, from the first day until now;) 
trusting this same thing, that he that began in you a good work, shall perform it till into the day of Jesus Christ. 
As it is just to me to feel this thing for all (of) you (or And it is right for me to feel this for all of you), for that I have you in (my) heart, and in my bonds, and in (the) defending and (in the) confirming of the gospel, (so) that all (of) ye be fellows of my joy. 
For God is a witness to me (or For God is my witness), how I covet all (of) you in the bowels of Jesus Christ. 
And this thing I pray, that your charity be plenteous more and more in cunning, (or in knowing), or in science, and in all wit; (And this I pray, that your love be more and more plentiful in knowledge, and in understanding all things;) 
that ye prove the better things, that ye be clean and without offence in the day of Christ; (that ye approve the better things, so that ye be clean and without blemish on the Day of the Messiah;) 
full-filled with the fruit of rightwiseness by Jesus Christ, into the glory and praising of God. (filled full with the fruit of righteousness by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and the praising of God.) 
For, brethren, I will that ye know, that the things that be about me have come more to the profit of the gospel, (Because, brothers, I want you to know, that what happened to me hath truly helped to advance the work of the Gospel or the Good News,) 
so that my bonds were made known in Christ, in each moot hall, and in all other places; (for my bondage or my imprisonment for the sake of the Messiah hath been made known, throughout the Hall of Judgement here, and in many other places as well;) 
that more of the brethren trusting in the Lord more plenteously for my bonds, durst without dread speak the word of God. that more of the brethren in the Lord trusting in my bonds, more plenteously durst without dread speak the word of God.(and because of my imprisonment, more of the brothers trusting more in the Lord, dare to speak the word of God without any fear.) 
But some for envy and strife, some for good will, preach Christ; (But some out of envy and strife, and some out of good will, preach the Messiah;) 
and some of charity, witting that I am put in the defence of the gospel. (and some out of love, knowing that I am put in the defence of the Gospel or the Good News.) 
But some (out) of strife or (out) of contention show Christ not cleanly, guessing them(selves) to raise tribulation to my bonds. (But some to be contentious, do not reveal the Messiah purely, or do not sincerely proclaim the Messiah, thinking to make trouble for me here in prison.) 
But what? while on all manner, either by occasion, either by truth, Christ is showed (or the Messiah is shown); and in this thing I have joy, but also I shall have joy. 
And I know, that this thing shall come to me into health, by your prayer(s), and the under-ministering of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, (And I know, that this shall be my salvation, or my deliverance, by your prayers, and by the ministering of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,) 
by mine abiding and hope. For in nothing I shall be ashamed, but in all trust as (for)evermore and now, Christ shall be magnified in my body, either by life, either by death. (by my abiding and hope. For I shall be ashamed of nothing, but in complete trust now and always, the Messiah shall be magnified in my body, either in life, or in death.) 
For to me to live is Christ, and to die is winning. (For to me to live is the Messiah, and to die is gain, or it is better for me.) 
That if to live in (the) flesh, this is (the) fruit of work to me, lo! what I shall choose, I know not. (But if to live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my work, behold! what I shall choose, I do not know.) 
But I am constrained of two things, I have desire to be departed from the body, and to be with Christ, it is much more better; (For I am constrained by two things, I have a desire to be departed (from this body), and to be with the Messiah, (it is) so much better than living;) 
but to dwell in (the) flesh, is needful for you. (but to remain in the flesh, is necessary for your benefit.) 
And I trusting this thing, know that I shall dwell, and perfectly dwell to all you, to your profit and joy of faith, (And I trusting in this thing, know that I shall remain, yea, I shall remain with all of you, for your profit and your joy in the faith,) 
that your thanking abound in Christ Jesus in me, by my coming again to you. (so that your thanksgiving abound in the Messiah Jesus for me, by my coming again to you.) 
Only live ye worthily to the gospel of Christ, that whether when I come and see you, either absent I hear of you, that ye stand in one spirit of one will, travailing together to the faith of the gospel. (Only be sure to live worthily unto the Gospel, or the Good News, of the Messiah, so that whether when I come and see you, or if absent I hear about you, that ye stand in one spirit of one will, working together in the faith for the Gospel or the Good News.) 
And in nothing be ye afeared of adversaries, which is to them (a) cause (or a sign) of perdition, but to you a cause of health (or but for you a sign of your salvation). And this thing is of God. 
For it is given to you for Christ (or For it is given to you for the Messiah), that not only ye believe in him, but also that ye suffer for him; 
having the same strife, which ye saw in me, and now ye have heard of me. 
