PSALMS.
Chapter 135.
Alleluia. Praise ye the name of the Lord; ye servants of the Lord, praise ye (him). 
Ye that stand in the house of the Lord; in the halls/in the foreyards of the house of our God. (Ye who stand in the House of the Lord; in the courtyards of the House of our God.) 
Praise ye the Lord, for the Lord is good; sing ye to his name, for it is sweet (or for it is pleasant to do so). 
For the Lord chose Jacob to himself; and Israel into possession to himself. (For the Lord chose Jacob for himself; yea, he chose Israel as his special possession.) 
For I have known, that the Lord is great; and our God (is) before all gods. (For I know that the Lord is great; and that our God is above all gods.) 
The Lord made all things, whatever things he would, in heaven and in earth; in the sea, and in all depths of waters. (The Lord made everything, whatever he desired, in heaven and on earth; in the sea, and in all the depths of the waters.) 
He led out clouds from the farthest part of earth; and made lightnings into rain. Which bringeth forth winds from his treasures; (He leadeth out the clouds from the farthest parts of the earth; and maketh lightning for the rains. He bringeth forth the wind out of his treasuries, or out of his storehouses.) 
which killed the first begotten things of Egypt, from man unto beast. (He killed all the first-born in Egypt, both man and beast.) 
He sent out signs and great wonders, in the middle of thee, thou Egypt; into Pharaoh, and into all his servants. (He sent out signs and great wonders, into the midst of thee, O Egypt; against Pharaoh, and all his servants.) 
Which smote many folks; and killed strong kings. (Who struck down many nations; and killed strong kings.) 
Sihon, the king of Amorites, and Og, the king of Bashan; and all the realms of Canaan (or and all the kings in Canaan). 
And he gave the land of them heritage; to be heritage to Israel, his people. (And he gave their land for an inheritance; yea, to be an inheritance for his people Israel.) 
Lord, thy name isinto without end; Lord, thy memorial be in generation and into generation. (Lord, thy name shall endure forever; Lord, thou shalt be remembered by all generations.) 
For the Lord shall deem his people; and he shall be prayed in his servants. (For the Lord shall judge his people; and he shall take pity upon his servants.) 
The simulacra of heathen men be silver and gold; the works of the hands of men. (The idols of the heathenbe but silver and gold; yea, the works of men’s hands.) 
Those images have a mouth, and shall not speak; those have eyes, and shall not see. (Those idols have mouths, but they cannot speak; they have eyes, but they cannot see.) 
Those have ears, and shall not hear; for there is no spirit in the mouth of them. (They have ears, but they cannot hear; for there is no breath in their mouths.) 
They that make those things, be made like them; and all that trust in them. (Let they who make those things, be made like them; and all who trust in them as well.) 
The house of Israel, bless ye the Lord; the house of Aaron, bless ye the Lord. 
The house of Levi, bless ye the Lord; ye that dread the Lord, bless ye the Lord, (or ye who fear the Lord, or ye who revere the Lord, bless ye the Lord). 
Blessed be the Lord (out) of Zion; that dwelleth in Jerusalem. (Blessed be the Lord in Zion; yea, he who dwelleth in Jerusalem.) 
