PROVERBS.
Chapter 14.
A wise woman buildeth her house; and an unwise woman shall destroy with hands, that is, with her evil works, an house builded. (A wise woman buildeth up her own house; but an unwise woman shall destroy with her own hands, that is, with her own evil works, the house that she hath built.) 
A man going in rightful way, and dreading God, is despised of him that goeth in the way of evil fame. (A person who doeth right, and feareth God or and revereth God, is despised by him who goeth in evil ways.) 
The rod of pride is in the mouth of a fool; the lips of wise men keep them (or but the lips of the wise keep them safe). 
Where oxen be not, the cratch is void (or the stall is empty); but where full many corns appear, there the strength of the ox is made open. 
A faithful witness shall not lie; a guileful witness bringeth forth a leasing (or a deceitful witness bringeth forth many lies). 
A scorner seeketh wisdom, and he findeth it not, (or A mocker seeketh wisdom, but never findeth it); the teaching of prudent men is easy. 
Go thou against a man a fool; and he shall not know the lips of prudence. (Go thou away from a foolish person; for he shall not speak words of understanding, that is, sensible words.) 
The wisdom of a fell man is to understand his way; and the unwariness of fools erreth. (The wisdom of a clever person is to understand his own way; but the carelessness of fools maketh them to err.) 
A fool scorneth sin; grace shall dwell among just men. (A fool mocketh sin; favour shall dwell among the righteous.) 
The heart that knoweth the bitterness of his soul; a stranger shall not be meddled in the joy thereof. (The heart knoweth the bitterness of its own soul; a stranger cannot be mixed in, or mingled, with its joy.) 
The house of wicked men shall be done away; the tabernacles of just men shall burgeon. (The houses of the wicked shall be done away; but the homes of the righteous shall flourish.) 
Soothly a way is, that seemeth just to a man, (or Truly there is a way, that seemeth right to a person); but the last things thereof lead forth to death. 
Laughing shall be meddled with sorrow (or Laughter shall be mixed, or mingled, with sorrow); and mourning occupieth the last things of joy. 
A fool shall be filled with his ways; and a good man shall be above him. (A fool shall reap the fruit of his foolish ways; and a good person that of his deeds, or of his labour.) 
An innocent man believeth to each word; a fell man beholdeth his goings. (An innocent person believeth each and every word; a clever person regardeth, or watcheth, his own steps.) 
A wise man dreadeth, and boweth away from evil; a fool skippeth over, and trusteth. 
A man unpatient shall work folly; and a guileful man is odious. (An impatient person will act foolishly; and a deceitful person is odious.) 
Little men of wit shall hold folly; and fell men shall abide knowing. (People of little wit, or of low intelligence, shall hold fast to foolishness; but clever people shall gain understanding.) 
Evil men shall lie (down) before good men; and unpious men before the gates of just men. (Evil people shall lie down before good people; and the wicked shall bow before the gates of the righteous.) 
A poor man shall be (thought) hateful, yea, (even) to his neighbour; but many men be(the) friends of rich men. 
He that despiseth his neighbour, doeth sin; but he that doeth mercy to a poor man, shall be blessed. 
He that believeth in the Lord, loveth mercy; they err that work evil. Mercy and truth make ready goods (or Mercy and truth bring forth good things); 
abundance shall be in each good work/in every good work. Soothly where full many words be, there neediness is oft, (or Truly, where there be a great many words, there often is neediness, or lack, or want). 
The crown of wise men is the riches of them; the folly of fools is unwariness. (The reward of the wise is their riches; the foolishness of fools is their recklessness.) 
A faithful witness delivereth souls; and a false man bringeth forth leasings. (A faithful witness saveth lives; but a false accuser bringeth forth only lies.) 
In the dread of the Lord is trust of strength; and hope shall be to the sons of him. (He who feareth the Lord or He who revereth the Lord hath trust in his strength; and his sons and daughters shall have hope and security.) 
The dread of the Lord is a well of life; that it bow away from the falling of death. (The fear of the Lord or Reverence for the Lord is a well of life; yea, so that thou turn away from deadly traps, or snares.) 
The dignity of the king is in the multitude of (his) people; and the shame of a prince is in the fewness of (his) people. 
He that is patient, is governed by much wisdom; but he that is unpatient, enhanceth his folly. 
(The) Health of (the) heart is the life of (the) flesh; envy is(the) rot of (the) bones. 
He that falsely challengeth a needy man, despiseth his maker; but he that hath mercy on a poor man, honoureth his maker. (He who oppresseth the needy, despiseth his Maker; but he who hath mercy on the poor, honoureth his Maker.) 
A wicked man is put out for his malice; but a just man hopeth in his death. (A wicked person is brought down by his own malice; but a righteous person hath hope in his death.) 
Wisdom resteth in the heart of a wise man; and he shall teach all unlearned men. (Wisdom resteth in the hearts of the wise; and they shall teach all the unlearned.) 
Rightfulness raiseth up a folk; sin maketh peoples wretches. (Uprightness raiseth up the nation; sin maketh people into wretches.) 
A servant understanding is acceptable to a king; a servant unprofitable shall suffer the wrathfulness of him. (An understanding servant shall receive the king’s favour; an unprofitableservant shall suffer his wrath.) 
