NUMBERS.
Chapter 8.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to Aaron, and thou shalt say to him, When thou hast set (up) the seven lanterns, the candlestick (should) be raised (up) in the south part; therefore command thou this, that the lanterns behold even against the north to the board of the loaves of setting forth, (so that) those lanterns shall shine against that part that the candlestick beholdeth to. (Speak thou to Aaron, and thou shalt say to him, When thou putteth the lanterns onto the lampstand, put them so that their light shineth out towards the front.) 
And Aaron did so, and he putted the lanterns upon the candlestick (or and he put the lanterns on the lampstand), as the Lord commanded to Moses. 
Soothly this was the making of the candlestick; it was of gold beaten out with hammers, as well the middle stalk, as all the things that came forth on ever either side of the rods; by the sample which the Lord showed to Moses, so he wrought the candlestick. (And this was the making of the lampstand; it was made of gold, beaten out with hammers, the middle stem, as well as all of its branches; by the example, or the pattern, which the Lord had shown to Moses, so he made the lampstand.) 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Take thou the Levites from the midst of the sons of Israel; and thou shalt cleanse them by this custom. (Take thou the Levites from the midst of the Israelites; and thou shalt cleanse, or shalt purify, them by this rite.) 
Be they sprinkled with (the) water of cleansing, or of purification, and shave they all the hairs of their flesh. And when they have washed their clothes and be cleansed, 
take they an ox of the droves, and the flowing sacrifice thereof, tried flour sprinkled (al)together with oil; forsooth thou shalt take another ox of the drove for sin; (take they an ox from the herd, and its grain offering of fine flour sprinkled with oil; and thou shalt take another ox from the herd for a sin offering;) 
and thou shalt present the Levites before the tabernacle of the bond of peace (or and thou shalt bring the Levites before the Tabernacle of the Covenant), when all the multitude of the sons of Israel is called together. 
And when the Levites be presented before the Lord, the sons of Israel shall set their hands upon them; 
and Aaron shall offer, (or shall present), the Levites in the sight of the Lord, (as) a gift of the sons of Israel, that they serve in the service of him. (and Aaron shall offer the Levites before the Lord, as a special gift from the Israelites, to serve in the Lord’s service.) 
Also the Levites shall set their hands upon the heads of the oxen, of which oxen thou shalt make, or ordain, one for sin, and the tother into burnt sacrifice of the Lord, that thou pray for them. (And the Levites shall put their hands on the heads of the oxen, of which oxen thou shalt ordain one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt sacrifice to the Lord, to make amends for the Levites.) 
And thou shalt ordain the Levites in the sight of Aaron, and of his sons, and thou shalt (make) sacred them(that be) offered to the Lord (or and thou shalt consecrate, or shalt dedicate, those who be offered to the Lord); 
and thou shalt separate them from the midst of the sons of Israel, (so) that they be mine. 
And afterward enter they into the tabernacle of the bond of peace, that they serve me; and so thou shalt cleanse and hallow them, into an offering of the Lord, (And afterward they shall enter into the Tabernacle of the Covenant to serve me; and so thou shalt cleanse, or shalt purify, and dedicate them, as an offering to the Lord,) 
for by free gift they be given to me (out) of the sons of Israel. I have taken them for the first begotten things that open each womb in Israel; (for they be given to me as a special gift from all the Israelites. I have taken them in place of the first-born males that open every womb in Israel;) 
for all the first begotten things of the sons of Israel be mine, as well of men as of beasts, (or for all the first-born males of the Israelites be mine, of people as well as of beasts), (yea), from the day in which I smote each first engendered (male) thing in the land of Egypt, I have hallowed them to me. 
And I took the Levites for all the first begotten (sons) of the sons of Israel; (And I took the Levites in place of all the first-born sons of the Israelites;) 
and I gave them by free gift to Aaron and to his sons, from the midst of the people, that they serve me for Israel, in the tabernacle of the bond of peace, and that they pray for them, lest vengeance be in the people, if they be hardy to nigh to the saintuary. (and I gave them as a gift to Aaron and to his sons, out of the midst of the people, to serve me for all the Israelites, in the Tabernacle of the Covenant, and to make amends for them, lest vengeance come upon the people, if they be fool-hardy enough to come near to the sanctuary.) 
And Moses and Aaron, and all the multitude of the sons of Israel, did upon the Levites those things that the Lord commanded to Moses. (And so Moses and Aaron, and all the multitude of the Israelites, did with the Levites those things that the Lord commanded to Moses.) 
And (so)the Levites were cleansed, and they washed their clothes; and Aaron raised, or presented, them in the sight of the Lord, and he prayed for them, that they shall be cleansed (or and he made amends for them, to purify them), 
and should enter to their offices into the tabernacle of the bond of peace, before Aaron and his sons, (or and then they entered into the Tabernacle of the Covenant to perform their service, before Aaron and his sons); as the Lord commanded to Moses of the Levites, so it was done. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
This is the law of the Levites; from five and twenty years and above they shall enter, for to minister in the tabernacle of the bond of peace; (This is the law for the Levites; from twenty-five years of age and older, they shall serve in the Tabernacle of the Covenant;) 
and when they have filled the fiftieth year of age, they shall cease to serve. 
And they shall be the ministers of their brethren in the tabernacle of the bond of peace, that they keep (watch on) those things that be betaken to them; soothly they shall not do those works, as they did before; thus thou shalt dispose the Levites in their keepings. (And afterward, they shall help their brothers in the Tabernacle of the Covenant, and do those tasks that be assigned to them; but they shall not do the work that they did before; thus thou shalt ordain the Levites in their duties.) 
