LUKE.
Chapter 4.
And Jesus full of the Holy Ghost turned again from (the) Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into (the) desert (And Jesus full of the Holy Spirit returned from the Jordan River, and was led by the Spirit into the desert) 
(for) forty days, and was tempted of the devil (or and was tested by the Devil), and he ate nothing in those days; and when those days were ended, he hungered. 
And the devil said to him, If thou art God’s Son, say to this stone, that it be made (into) bread. 
And Jesus answered to him, It is written, That a man liveth not in bread alone, but in every word of God. (And Jesus answered him, It is written, A man liveth not by bread alone, but by every word from God.) 
And the devil led him into an high hill, and showed to him all the realms of the world in a moment of time; (And the Devil led him up onto a high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time;) 
and said to him, I shall give to thee all this power, and the glory of them, for to me they be given, and to whom I will, I give them; (and said to him, I shall give thee all this power, and their glory, for they have been given to me, and to whom I desire, I give them;) 
therefore if thou fall down, and worship before me, all (these) things shall be thine. 
And Jesus answered, and said to him, It is written, Thou shalt worship thy Lord God or Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and to him alone thou shalt serve. 
And he led him into Jerusalem, and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If thou art God’s Son, send thyself from hence down; 
for it is written, For he hath commanded to his angels of thee, (or For he hath commanded to his angels about thee), that they keep thee (safe) in all thy ways, 
and that they shall take thee in (their) hands, lest peradventure thou hurt thy foot at or on a stone. 
And Jesus answered, and said to him, It is said, Thou shalt not tempt thy Lord God, or It is said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God, (or Thou shalt not test the Lord thy God). 
And when every temptation was ended, the fiend or the devil went away from him for a time. (And when every test was ended, the Devil went away from him for a while.) 
And Jesus turned again in the virtue of the Spirit into Galilee, and the fame went forth of him through all the country. (And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and the story about him went forth throughout all the land.) 
And he taught in the synagogues of them, and was magnified of all men. (And he taught in their synagogues, and was praised by everyone.) 
And he came to Nazareth, where he was nourished (or where he grew up), and he entered after his custom in (or on) the sabbath day into a synagogue or and he entered after his custom in the sabbath day into the synagogue, and rose to read. 
And the book of Esaias, the prophet, was taken to him; and as he turned the book, he found a place, where it was written, (And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him; and as he turned the scroll, he found a place, where it was written,) 
The Spirit of the Lord isup on me, for which thing he anointed me; he sent me to preach or to evangelize to poor men, to heal contrite men in heart, and to preach remission (or a pardon) to (the) prisoners or to (the) captives, and sight to blind men, and to deliver broken men into remission (or and to give relief to broken men); 
to preach the year of the Lord pleasant, and the day of yielding again. to preach the year of the Lord accepted, or pleasant, and the day of retribution, or yielding again.(to proclaim the exceptional year of the Lord, yea, the Day of Reward.) 
And when he had closed the book, he gave it again to the minister, and sat, (or And when he had rolled up the scroll, he gave it back to the priest, and sat down); and the eyes of all men in the synagogue were beholding into him. 
And he began to say to them, For in this day this scripture is fulfilled in your ears. 
And all men gave witnessing to him (or And everyone gave good testimony about him), and wondered in the words of grace, that came forth of or that came out of his mouth. And they said, Whether this is not the son of Joseph? 
And he said to them, Soothly ye shall say to me this likeness, Leech, heal thyself, (or Truly, or Surely, ye shall say to me this proverb, Physician, heal thyself). The Pharisees said to Jesus, How (or What) great things have we heard done in Capernaum, do thou also here in thy country. 
And he said, Truly I say to you, that no prophet is received or is accepted in his own country. (And he said, I tell you the truth, no prophet is accepted in his hometown.) 
In truth I say to you, that many widows were in the days of Elias, the prophet, in Israel, when heaven was closed three years and six months, when great hunger was made in all the earth or in every land; (Truly I say to you, or I tell you the truth, that there were many widows in Israel, in the days of the prophet Elijah, when the heavens were closed up for three years and six months, when great hunger was made in every land;) 
and to none of them was Elias sent, (no) but into Sarepta of Sidon, to a woman a widow or no but to Sarepta of Sidon, to a woman widow. (and to none of them was Elijah sent, except unto Sarepta of Sidon, yea, to a widow woman.) 
And many mesels were in Israel, under Eliseus, the prophet, and none of them was cleansed, no but Naaman of Syria. (And there were many lepers in Israel, at the time of the prophet Elisha, and none of them were cleansed, except for Naaman of Syria.) 
And all in the synagogue hearing these things, were filled with wrath. 
And they rose up, and drove him out without the city, and led him to the top of the hill on which their city was builded, to cast him down (or to throw him down). 
But Jesus passed (forth), and went through the middle of them; (But Jesus passed forth, and went through their midst;) 
and he came down into Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and there he taught them in (or on)the sabbaths. 
And they were astonied in his teaching, for his word was in power. (And they were astonished with his teaching, for there was power in his words.) 
And in their synagogue was a man having an unclean fiend, and he cried with (a) great voice, (And in their synagogue was a man who had a devil, or a demon, yea, an unclean spirit, and he cried with a loud voice,) 
and said, Suffer, what to us and to thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to lose us? (or art thou come to destroy us?) I know thee, that thou art the holy (One) of God. 
And Jesus blamed him, and said, Wax dumb, and go out from him. And when the fiend had cast him forth into the middle (of them), he went away from him, and he annoyed him nothing. (And Jesus rebuked him, and said, Be still, and go out of him. And when the demon had thrown him forth into their midst, he went out of him, and he did him no harm.) 
And dread was made in all men, and they spake together, and said, What is this word, for in power and virtue he commandeth to unclean spirits, and they go out? (And everyone was filled with fearful reverence, and they spoke together, and said, What be these words of his? for in power and with authority he commandeth to unclean spirits, and they go out!) 
And the fame was published of him into each place of the country. (And the story about him was told in every part of the land.) 
And Jesus rose up from the synagogue, and entered into the house of Simon; and the mother of Simon’s wife was holden with great fevers, and they prayed him for her (or and they beseeched him for her). 
And Jesus stood over her, and commanded to the fever, and it left her; and anon she rose up (or and at once she got up), and served them. 
And when the sun went down, all that had sick men with diverse languors, or aches, led them to him; and he set his hands on each by themselves, and healed them. 
And fiends went out from many, and cried, and said, For thou art the Son of God. And he blamed, and suffered them not to speak, for they knew him, that he was Christ. (And devils and demons went out from many, and cried, and said, For thou art the Son of God. And he rebuked them, and did not allow them to speak, for they knew him, that he was the Messiah.) 
And when the day was come, he went out, and went into a desert place; and the people sought him, and they came to him, and they held (onto) him, that he should not go away from them (or so that he would not go away from them). 
To whom he said, For also to other cities it behooveth me to preach or to evangelize the kingdom of God, for therefore I am sent or for thereto I am sent. 
And (so) he preached in the synagogues of Galilee. 
