APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 3.
And to the angel of the church of Sardis write thou, These things saith he, that hath the seven spirits of God, and the seven stars. I know thy works, for thou hast a name, that thou livest, and thou art dead. 
Be thou waking, (or Wake up, or Be on guard), and confirm thou (the) other things, that were to dying; for I find not thy works full (or finished) before my God. 
Therefore have thou in mind, how thou receivedest, and heardest; and keep, and do penance. Therefore if thou wake not, I shall come as a night thief to thee, and thou shalt not know in what hour I shall come to thee. (And so remember, how thou hast received it, and hast heard it; and so obey it, and repent. And if thou do not wake up, or be on guard, I shall come to thee like a thief in the night, and thou shalt not know in what hour I shall come to thee.) 
But thou hast a few names in Sardis, which have not defouled their clothes, (or But thou hast a few people in Sardis, who have not defiled their clothes); and they shall walk with me in white clothes, for they be worthy. 
He that overcometh, shall be clothed thus with white clothes; and I shall not do away his name from the book of life, and I shall acknowledge his name before my Father, and before his angels. 
He that hath ears, hear he, what the Spirit saith to the churches. 
And to the angel of the church of Philadelphia write thou, These things saith the holy and (the) true (one), that hath the key of David; which openeth, and no man closeth, he closeth, and no man openeth. 
I know thy works, and lo! I gave before thee a door opened, which no man may close; for thou hast a little virtue, and hast kept my word, and deniedest not my name. (I know thy works, and behold! I have put before thee an open door, which no one can close; for thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and deniedest not my name.) 
Lo! I shall give to thee (those) of the synagogue of Satan, which say that they be Jews (or who say that they be Jews), and be not, but lie. Lo! I shall make them, (so) that they come, and worship before thy feet; and they shall know, that I loved thee, 
for thou keptest the word of my patience. And I shall keep thee from the hour of temptation, that is to coming into all the world or that is to come into all the world, to tempt men that dwell in earth. (because thou hast obeyed my word and endured, or because thou hast obeyed my word to endure. And I shall keep thee from the hour of testing, that is to come into all the world, to test those who live on the earth.) 
Lo! I come soon; hold thou that that thou hast, (so) that no man take thy crown. 
And him that shall overcome, I shall make (him) a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall no more go out; and I shall write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, of the new Jerusalem, that cometh down from (the) heaven of my God, and my new name. 
He that hath ears, hear he, what the Spirit saith to the churches. 
And to the angel of the church of Laodicea write thou, These things saith (the) Amen, the faithful witness and (the) true (one), which is (the) beginning of God’s creature(s), (or who is the beginning, or the Source, of all of God’s Creation). 
I know thy works, for neither thou art cold, neither thou art hot; I would (like) that thou were cold, either hot; 
but for thou art lukewarm, and neither cold, neither hot, I shall begin to cast thee or to vomit thee out of my mouth. 
For thou sayest, That I am rich, and full of goods, and have need of nothing; and thou knowest not, that thou art a wretch, and wretchful or and wretched, and poor, and blind, and naked. 
I counsel thee to buy of me burnt gold (or I counsel thee to buy from me gold which was refined in the fire), (so) that thou be made rich, and be clothed with white clothes, (so) that the confusion or the shame of thy nakedness be not seen; and anoint thine eyes with a collyrium, that is, a medicine for (the) eyes, gathered of (or from) diverse herbs, (so) that thou (can) see. 
I reprove, and chastise whom I love; therefore (pur)sue thou good men, and do penance. (I rebuke, and chastise whom I love; and so pursue the good, and repent.) 
Lo! I stand at the door, and knock; if any man heareth my voice, and openeth the gate to me, I shall enter to him, and sup with him, and he with me. 
And I shall give to him that shall overcome, to sit with me in (or on) my throne, as also I overcame, and sat with my Father in (or on) his throne. 
He that hath ears, hear he, what the Spirit saith to the churches. 
