1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 3.
And I, brethren, might not speak to you as to spiritual men, but as to fleshly men; as to little children in Christ, 
I gave to you milk to drink, not meat (or solid food); for ye might not yet understand, neither ye may now (or nor can ye now), 
for yet ye be fleshly. For while envy and strife is among you, whether ye be not fleshly, and ye go after man? 
For when some saith, I am of Paul, and another, But I am of Apollos, whether ye be not fleshly men? 
What therefore is Apollos, and what Paul? They be ministers (or servants) of him, to whom ye have believed; and to each man as God hath given. 
I planted, Apollos moisted (or Apollos watered), but God gave increasing. 
Therefore neither he that planteth is anything, neither he that moisteth (or nor he who watereth), but God that giveth increasing. 
And he that planteth, and he that moisteth, be one; and each shall take his own meed, after his travail. (And he who planteth, and he who watereth, be one; and each shall receive his own reward, according to his labour.) 
For we be the helpers of God; ye be the earth-tilling of God, ye be the building of God. 
After the grace of God that is given to me, as a wise master carpenter I setted the foundament, (or By the grace of God that is given to me, like a wise master carpenter I set the foundation); and another buildeth above. But each man see, how he buildeth above, or Soothly each man see, how and what things he buildeth upon. 
For no man may set another foundament, except or besides that that is set, which is Christ Jesus. (And no other foundation can be laid by any man, besides that which was laid, which is the Messiah Jesus.) 
For if any man buildeth over or upon this foundament, (with) gold, silver, precious stones, sticks, hay, or stubble, 
every man’s work shall be open; for the day of the Lord shall declare (it), for it shall be showed in fire; the fire shall prove the work of each man, what manner work it is. 
If the work of any man dwell still, which he builded above or upon, he shall receive meed (or he shall receive a reward). 
If any man’s work burn, he shall suffer harm, either impairing; but he shall be safe, so nevertheless as by fire, (or but he shall be saved, as if from a fire). 
Know ye not, that ye be the temple of God, (or Do ye not know, that ye be God’s temple), and the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? 
And if any man defouleth the temple of God, God shall lose him; for the temple of God is holy, which ye be. (And if any man defileth God’s temple, God shall destroy him; for God’s temple is holy, which ye be.) 
No man deceive himself. If any man among you is seen to be wise in this world, be he made a fool, (so) that he (can truly) be wise. 
For the wisdom of this world is folly with God (or For this world’s wisdom is foolishness to God); for it is written, I shall catch wise men in their fell wisdom, or subtle guile; 
and again, The Lord knoweth the thoughts of wise men, for those be vain (or for they be empty and useless). 
Therefore no man have glory in men (or And so let no man boast about men). For all things be yours, 
either Paul, either Apollos, either Cephas (or Peter), either the world, either life, either death, either things present, either things to coming or either things to come; for all things be yours, 
and ye be of Christ, and Christ is of God. (and ye (be) of the Messiah, and the Messiah (is) of God.) 
