2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 4.
Therefore we that have this administration, or office, after this that we have gotten mercy, fail we not, 
but do we away the privy, (or the private, or the secret), things of shame, not walking in subtle guile, neither doing adultery by the word of God or neither adulterating the word of God, but in (the) showing of the truth commending us-selves to each conscience of men before God. 
For if also our gospel is covered, or is hid, in these that perish it is covered; (And if our Gospel or Good News is covered, or it is hidden, it is only hidden for those who perish, or who go to destruction;) 
in which the god of this world, that is, the devil, hath blinded the souls of unfaithful men, (so) that the (en)lightening or the lighting of the gospel of the glory of Christ, which is the image of God, shine not. (in which the god of this world, that is, the Devil, hath blinded the souls of the unfaithful or the unbelievers, so that the light of the Gospel, or the Good News, of the glory of the Messiah, who is the image of God, cannot shine for them.) 
But we preach not us-selves, but our Lord Jesus Christ or but Jesus Christ our Lord; and us (as) your servants by Jesus. 
For God, that said the light to shine of darknesses, he hath given light in our hearts, to the lightening or the illumining of the science of the clearness of God, in the face of Jesus Christ. (For God, who commanded the light to shine in the darkness, he hath given, or he hath put, the light in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God, in the face of Jesus Christ.) 
And we have this treasure in brittle vessels, that the worthiness or the highness be of God’s virtue (or so that the worthiness be of God’s power), and not of us. 
In all things we suffer tribulation, but we be not anguished, or annoyed, (or harmed); we be made poor, but we lack nothing or we be not destitute; 
we suffer persecution, but we be not forsaken; we be made low, but we be not confounded; we be cast down, but we perish not, (or we be thrown down, but we do not perish). 
And (for)evermore we bear about the slaying or the mortifying of Jesus in our body (or And we always carry about the death of Jesus in our body), (so) that also the life of Jesus be showed in our bodies. 
For evermore we that live, be taken into death, for Jesus, that the life of Jesus be showed in our deadly flesh. (For we who live, always be taken unto death, for the sake of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus be shown in our mortal flesh.) 
Therefore death worketh in us, but life in you. 
And we have the same spirit of faith, as it is written, I have believed, wherefore I have spoken; and we believe, wherefore also we speak; 
witting that he that raised Jesus (or knowing that he who raised up Jesus), shall raise up also us with Jesus, and shall ordain us with you. 
And all things be done for you, (so) that a plenteous grace by many thankings be plenteous into the glory of God. Soothly all things be done for you, (so) that grace being plenteous by many in doing of thanks be plenteous into (the) glory of God. 
For which thing we fail not, for though our outer man be corrupted; nevertheless the inner man is renewed from day to day. 
But that light, or easy, thing of our tribulation that lasteth now, but as it were by a moment, worketh in us over-measure an everlasting burden or an everlasting weight into the highness of glory; 
while that we behold not those things that be seen, but those things that be not seen. For those things that be seen, be but during for a short time or temporal; but those things that be not seen, be everlasting or eternal. 
