MATTHEW.
Chapter 12.
In that time Jesus went by (some) corns in the sabbath day or on the sabbath day; and his disciples hungered, and began to pluck the ears of corn, and to eat (them). 
And the Pharisees, seeing, said to him, Lo! thy disciples do that thing that is not leaveful to them to do in the sabbaths. (And the Pharisees, seeing that, said to him, Behold! thy disciples do what is not lawful for them to do on the Sabbath.) 
And he said to them, Whether ye have not read, what David did, when he hungered, and they that were with him? 
how he entered into the house of God, and ate (the) loaves of proposition, either of setting forth, which loaves it was not leaveful to him to eat, neither to them that were with him, no but to (the) priests alone? (or which bread it was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests?) 
Or whether ye have not read in the law, that in (or on) the sabbaths (the) priests in the temple defoul the sabbaths (or defile the Sabbath), and they be without blame? 
And I say to you, that here is a greater than the temple. (And I tell you, that here is something greater than the Temple.) 
And if ye knew, what it is, I will mercy, and not sacrifice, ye should never have condemned innocents. (And if ye only knew, what is meant by, I want mercy, or kindness, and not sacrifice, ye would never have condemned the innocent.) 
For man’s Son is Lord, yea, of the sabbath. 
And when he passed from thence, he came into the synagogue of them. 
And lo! a man that had a dry hand. And they asked him, and said, Whether it be leaveful to heal in the sabbath? that they should accuse him. (And behold! a man who had a withered hand. And they asked him, and said, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? so that they could accuse him.) 
And he said to them, What man of you shall there be, that hath one sheep, and if it fall into a ditch in (or on) the sabbaths, whether he shall not (take) hold (of it), and lift it up? 
How much more is a man better than a sheep? Therefore it is leaveful to do good in the sabbaths, or And so it is leaveful to do good in the sabbath, (or And so it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath). 
Then he said to the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched (it) forth; and it was restored to health as the other. 
And the Pharisees went out, and made a counsel (or a plan) against him, (as to) how they should destroy him. 
And Jesus knew it, and went away from thence; and many (pur)sued him (or and many followed him), and he healed them all. 
And he commanded to them, that they should not make him known; 
that that thing were fulfilled, that was said by Esaias, the prophet, saying, (so that it was fulfilled, which was said by the prophet Isaiah, saying,) 
Lo! my child, whom I have chosen, my darling, in whom it hath well pleased to my soul; I shall put my Spirit on him, and he shall tell doom to (the) heathen men (or and he shall tell out judgement to the Gentiles). 
He shall not strive, nor cry, neither any man shall hear his voice in (the) streets. 
A bruised reed he shall not break or He shall not break (al)together a shaken reed, and he shall not quench smoking flax, till he cast out doom (or judgement), (un)to victory; 
and heathen men shall (have) hope in his name. (and the Gentiles shall have hope in his name.) 
Then a man blind and dumb, that had a fiend or a devil, was brought to him; and he healed him, so that he spake, and saw. 
And all the people wondered, and said, Whether this be the son of David? 
But the Pharisees heard, and said, He this (man) casteth not out fiends, (no) but in Beelzebub, (the) prince of (the) fiends. +But the Pharisees hearing, said, This (man) casteth not out fiends, no but in Beelzebub, prince of devils. (But the Pharisees heard, and said, He throweth out demons by Beelzebub, the Prince of demons.) 
And Jesus, witting their thoughts, said to them, Each kingdom parted against itself, shall be desolated, or shall be desolate, (or Each kingdom divided against itself, shall be destroyed), and each city, or house, parted against itself, shall not stand. 
And if Satan casteth out Satan, he is parted against himself, (or And if Satan throweth out Satan, he is divided against himself); therefore how shall his kingdom stand? 
And if I in Beelzebub cast out devils, in whom, or by whose might, (do) your sons cast (them) out? Therefore they shall be your doomsmen (or And so they shall be your judges). 
But if I in the Spirit of God cast out fiends, then the kingdom of God is come into you or is come among you. (But if I by the Spirit of God throw out devils and demons, then the kingdom of God is come unto you.) 
Either how may any man enter into the house of a strong man, and take away his vessels, no but he first bind the strong man, and then he shall spoil his house? (Or how can any man enter into the house of a strong man, and take away his things? first he must bind up the strong man, and then he can rob his house.) 
He that is not with me, is against me; and he that gathereth not together with me, scattereth abroad. 
Therefore I say to you, all sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven to men, but the blasphemy of the Spirit shall not be forgiven (or but blasphemy against the Holy Spirit shall not be forgiven). 
And whoever saith a word against man’s Son, it shall be forgiven to him; but who that saith a word against the Holy Ghost (or but who that saith a word against the Holy Spirit), it shall not be forgiven to him, neither in this world, nor in the tother. 
Either make ye the tree good, and his fruit good; either make ye the tree evil and his fruit evil; for a tree is known of his fruit (or for a tree is known by its fruit). 
Ye generation of adders, how may ye speak good things, when ye be evil? (or Ye children of snakes, how can ye say anything good, when ye yourselves be evil?) For the mouth speaketh (out) of the plenty or (out) of the great abundance of the heart. 
A good man bringeth forth good things of good treasure, and an evil man bringeth forth evil things of evil treasure. 
And I say to you, that of every idle word, that men speak, they shall yield reason thereof in the day of doom; (And I tell you, that for every idle word, that men speak, they shall have to give a reason for it on the Day of Judgement;) 
for of thy words thou shalt be justified, and of thy words thou shalt be condemned. 
Then some of the scribes and the Pharisees answered to him, and said, Master, we will see a token of thee, (or Teacher, we desire to see a sign from thee). 
Which answered, and said to them, An evil kindred and a spouse-breaker seeketh a token or An evil generation and adulterous seeketh a token, and a token shall not be given to it, no but the token of Jonas, the prophet. (And he answered, and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh a sign, and no sign shall be given to it, except for the sign of the prophet Jonah.) 
For as Jonas was in the womb of a whale three days and three nights (or For as Jonah was in the belly of a whale for three days and three nights), so man’s Son shall be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights. 
Men of Nineveh shall rise in (the) doom with this generation, and shall condemn it; for they did penance in the preaching of Jonas, and lo! here is a greater (man) than Jonas. (Men of Nineveh shall rise at the Judgement with this generation, and they shall condemn it; for they repented after the preaching of Jonah, and behold! here (is) something greater than Jonah.) 
The queen of the south shall rise in doom with this generation, and (she) shall condemn it; for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and lo! here is a greater (man) than Solomon. (The Queen of the South shall rise at the Judgement with this generation, and she shall condemn it; for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold! here (is) something greater than Solomon.) 
When an unclean spirit goeth out from a man, he goeth by dry places, seeking rest, and findeth not or and he findeth none. 
Then he saith, I shall turn again into mine house, from whence I went out. And he cometh, and findeth it void, and cleansed with besoms, and made fair. (Then he saith, I shall return to my house, from where I went out. And he cometh, and findeth it empty, and swept clean, and made neat and tidy.) 
Then he goeth (out), and taketh (back) with him seven other spirits worse than himself; and they enter in, and dwell there. And the last things of that man be made worse than the former. So it shall be to this worst generation, (or And so the last things of that man be made worse than the first things. So it shall be with this evil generation). 
Yet while he spake to the people, lo! his mother and his brethren stood withoutforth, seeking to speak with him. 
And a man said to him, Lo! thy mother and thy brethren stand withoutforth, seeking thee. 
And he answered to the man, that spake to him, and said, Who is my mother? and who be my brethren? 
And he held forth his hand into his disciples, and said, Lo! my mother and my brethren; 
for whoever doeth the will of my Father that is in heavens, he is my brother, and sister, and mother. 
