ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 36.
God of all things, have thou mercy on us; and behold thou us, and show to us the light of thy merciful doings. 
And send thy dread on heathen men, that sought not thee, (so) that they know that no God is, no but thou; that they tell out thy great worthy deeds. 
Raise up thine hand on heathen men aliens, (so) that they see thy power. 
For as thou were hallowed in us in the sight of them, so in our sight thou shalt be magnified in them; 
(so) that they know thee, as and we have known (thee), that none other is God, except thee, Lord. 
Make thou new signs, and change thou marvels; glorify the hand, and the right arm. 
Raise up thou strong vengeance, and shed out ire or pour out wrath; take away the adversary, and torment the enemy. 
Haste thou the time, and have thou mind on the end, (so) that they tell out thy marvels. 
And he that is saved, be devour-ed in the ire of flame; and they that treat worst thy people, find perdition. 
All-break thou the head(s) of princes, and of enemies, saying, None other is or There is none other, except us. 
Gather thou together all the lineages of Jacob, and know they that no God is, no but thou or there is no God but thou, (so) that they tell out thy great deeds; and thou shalt inherit them, as at the beginning. 
Have thou mercy on thy people, on which thy name is called in to help; and on Israel, whom thou madest even to thy first engendered or (be)gotten son. 
Have thou mercy on Jerusalem, the city of thine hallowing, on the city of thy rest. 
Full-fill thou Zion with thy virtues, that may not be told out or untellable, and fill thy people with thy glory. 
Give thou witnessing, that at or from the beginning they were thy creatures; and raise thou (the) prayers, which the former prophets spake in thy name. 
Lord, give thou meed (or reward) to them that abide thee, (so) that thy prophets be found true or faithful; 
and hear thou the prayer of thy servants. After the blessing of Aaron give thou to thy people, and (ad)dress (or direct) thou us into the way of rightfulness; (so) that all men know, that dwell in (or on the) earth, that thou art God, the beholder of worlds. 
The womb shall eat all meat(s), and one meat is better than another meat. 
Cheeks touch meat almost, and an unwise heart receiveth false or leasing (or lying) words. 
A shrewd (or depraved) heart shall give heaviness, and a wise man shall against-stand or withstand it. 
A woman shall take each knave or male child, and (or but) a daughter is or there is a daughter better than a son. 
The fairness of a woman maketh glad the face of her husband, and (so) she shall bring desire (for herself) over all the covetousness or (the) lust of (her) man. 
If there is a tongue of healing, or of curing, (or of caring), there is also (one) of assuaging, and of mercy; (and) the husband of her is not after (or like most of) the (other) sons of men. 
He that hath in possession a good woman, beginneth (a) possession; she is an help like (to) him(self), and a pillar as (or of) rest. 
Where an hedge is not, the possession shall be ravished (or snatched) away or broken; and where a woman is not, a needy man waileth. 
To whom believeth he that hath no nest, and boweth down wherever it is dark, as a thief girt or girded up, skipping out from city into city? 
