ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 45.
And he kept to him men of mercy, finding grace in the sight of each man or of all flesh. Moses was loved of (or by) God and of (or by) men; whose mind (or memory) is in blessing. 
He made him like in (or to) the glory of (the) saints, and he magnified him in the dread of (his) enemies; 
and in his words he made peace-able the wonders against kind. He glorified him in the sight of kings, and he commanded to him before his people, and showed his glory to him. 
In the faith and mildness (or meek-ness) of him God made him holy; and chose him (out) of all men. 
For he heard him, and his voice; and led him in(to) a cloud. And gave to him an heart to (or for the) commandments, and to (or for) the law of life, and to (or for) teaching; to teach Jacob a or his testament, and Israel his dooms. 
He made high Aaron, his brother, and like him of the lineage of Levi. 
He ordained to him an ever-lasting testament, or covenant, and gave to him the priesthood of the folk. And he made him blessful in glory, and girt him with a girdle of rightfulness or rightwiseness; and he clothed him with a stole of glory, and crowned him in the ornaments or the adornments of virtue. 
He setted on him sandals or shoes, and breeches, and a cloth (or a cloak) on the shoulder(s)or (a) cape, 
and girt him about with full many small or little golden bells in compass (or all around); to give sound in his going, and to make (the) sound heard in the temple, into mind to the sons of his folk. 
God gave to him an holy stole, a woven work, with gold and jacinth (or hyacinth), or blue violet, and purple, the work of a wise man, made rich with doom and truth (or with Urim and Thummim); 
the work of a craftsman, in writhed fire-red thread, with precious gems engraved in the binding of gold, and engraved by the work of a craftsman of stones or the lapidary, into mind, by or after the number of the lineages of Israel. 
A golden or gold crown on his mitre, set forth with the sign of holiness, the glory of honour, and the work of virtue, adorned to (or for the) desire of (the) eyes. 
Such things so fair were not before him, unto the east. None alien was clothed therein, but only his sons, and his sons’ sons alone, by (or for) all time. 
His sacrifices were ended each day by or with fire. 
Moses filled his hands, that is, (made him) sacred (or consecrated himx), and anointed him with holy oil. It was made to him into (an) ever-lasting testament, and to his seed as the days of heaven, to use the office of priesthood, and to have praising, that is, to have the office to praise God, and to glorify his people in his name. 
God chose him (out) of each living man or all (the) living, to offer sacrifice to God, incense, and good odour, into mind, for to please or to make peace for his people. 
And he gave to him power in his commandments, and in the testaments of dooms, to teach Jacob (the) witnessings, and in his law to give light to Israel. 
For aliens stood against him, and men that were with Dathan and Abiram, and the congregation of Korah, in wrathfulness compassed him for envy, in (the) desert. 
The Lord saw (this), and it pleased not him; and they were wasted in the fierceness of (his) wrathfulness. He made to them wonders against kind, and in the flame of fire he wasted them, for the earth swallowed them, and they went down quick (or alive) into hell. 
And he increased glory to Aaron, and gave (an) heritage to him; and he parted or he divided to Aaron the first things of (the) fruits of the earth. He made ready or prepared his bread in the first things, into fullness; 
for why and they shall eat the sacrifices of the Lord, which he gave to him, and to his seed. 
But in the land of his folk he shall not have heritage, and no part is to (or for) him among the folk; for why God is the part and heritage of him. 
Phineas, the son of Eleazar, was the third in glory, in pursuing or following him in the dread of God, and to stand in the reverence of the folk; in the goodness and gladness of his soul he pleased God of Israel. 
Therefore God ordained to him the testament of peace, and made him(the) prince of (the) holy men, and of his folk; (so) that the dignity of (the) priesthood be to him and to his seed, without end. 
And the testament of David, the son of Jesse, of the lineage of Judah, was heritage to him, and to his seed; 
(so) that he should give wisdom into our heart(s), to deem his folk in rightfulness or in rightwiseness, lest their goods shall be done away; and he made the glory of them to be everlasting, in the folk of them. 
