2ND MACCABEES.
Chapter 8.
Forsooth Judas Maccabeus, and they that were with him, entered privily into (the) castles (or entered privately, or secretly, into the towns); and called together cousins, and friends, and took them that dwelt in Judea or in Jewry, or in (the) keeping of the law of (the) Jews, and led out men to six thousands. 
And they called the Lord to (or for) help, for to behold on the people, that was defouled of (or who were trampled upon by) all men; (and) for to have mercy on the temple, that was defouled of unpious men; 
and for to have mercy on (the) destroying of the city, that was anon to be made plain (al)together (or to be levelled to the ground); and for to hear the voice of (the) blood crying to him, 
and for to have mind on the wickedest deaths of little children innocents, and of (the) blasphemies given to (or against) his name; and for to have indignation on these things. 
And Maccabeus, with the multitude gathered, was made unsufferable to (the) heathen men; for the wrath of the Lord was converted into mercy. 
And he above-came to castles (or towns) and cities, unwarned (or unan-nounced), and burnt them (up); and occupied covenable places, and gave not few slayings of (his) enemies. 
Soothly in (the) nights he was most borne to seek out runnings; and fame of his virtue was shed out, either showed, everywhere. 
Forsooth Philip saw, that the man by little and little came to increase, and that full often things befell to him in prosperity; and he wrote to Ptol-emy, duke of Celosyria and Phenice (or Ptolemeus, the governor of Greater Syria and Phoenicia), that he should bear help to the king’s needs. 
And he swiftly sent Nicanor (the son) of Patroclus, (one) of the former (or first), or (the) worthier, friends, and gave to him not less than twenty thousands of armed folks mingled (al)together, for to do away all the kin of (the) Jews; and joined to him Gorgias, a knightly man, and most expert (or experienced) in things of battle. 
Forsooth Nicanor promised stead-fastly to the king, that he should fill the tribute that was to be given to (the) Romans, two thousands of talents, (out) of (or from) the (sale of the) captivity of (the) Jews (or of the Jewish captives). 
And anon he sent to (the) cities of the sea coast, and called together to (or for) even-buying of (the) prisoners, or of (the) bondmen, of (the) Jews; and promised, that he shall sell ninety bondmen for a talent or one talent, not beholding to the vengeance that should pursue him of Almighty God. 
Forsooth when Judas found (out this), he showed to these Jews that were with him, the coming of Nicanor. 
Of which or Of whom some inwardly dreaded, and believed not to (or in) the rightwiseness of God, and were turned into flight; 
others soothly, if any left of them, came (or others sold all that they had left, and came), and together besought the Lord, for to deliver them from (the) wicked Nicanor, which had sold them before that he came nigh; 
and though not for them, but for the testament that was to the fathers of them, and for the calling to help of his holy name and great on them. 
Forsooth Maccabeus called to-gether seven thousands that were with him, and prayed, that they should not be reconciled to (the) enemies, neither should dread the multitude of (the) enemies wickedly coming against them, but strongly should fight; 
having before the(ir) eyes, the despite that was done in the holy place, unjustly of (or by) them, and also the wrong of the city, had in scorning; yet also the ordinances of (the) eld or old men destroyed. 
For why he said, They soothly trust in arms (or weapons)(al)together and hardiness; forsooth we trust in the Lord Almighty, that may do away with one looking, both them that come against us, and all the world. 
Forsooth he admonished them also of (the) helps of God, that were done against (their) fathers; and that under Sennacherib an hundred thousand fourscore thousand and five thousand or an hundred fourscore and five thousand perished; 
and of the battle that was to them against (the) Galatians, in Babylon; whether if it come to the thing, or (the) truth, when all fellows Macedonians doubted, they six thousands alone slew an hundred thousand and twenty thousands or an hundred and twenty thousands, for (the) help given to them from heaven; and for these things they had full many benefices. 
By these words they were made steadfast, and ready for to die for (the) laws and (the) country. 
Therefore he ordained his brethren leaders to (or of) each order, Simon, and Joseph, and Jonathan, and made subject to each a thousand and five hundred (men). 
Also to this thing, when the holy book was read to them of Ezra, and a token was given of God’s help, he was duke (or leader) in the first battle array, and joined battle with Nicanor. 
And for the Almighty was made (the) helper to (or of) them, they slew over nine thousand of men; forsooth they constrained the more part of Nicanor’s host, made feeble by wounds, for to flee. 
Forsooth when the riches or the monies of them, that came to (or for) the buying of them, were taken up, on each side they pursued them; but they (re)turned again, closed (al)to-gether by an hour; 
for why it was before (the) sabbath, for which cause they lasted not (in) pursuing (them). 
Forsooth they gathered the arms or armours of them, and (the) spoils, and did (the) sabbath, and blessed the Lord, that delivered them in (or unto) this day, dropping into (or upon) them (the) beginning of mercy. 
Forsooth after the sabbath, they parted spoils to the feeble folks, and fatherless, and motherless, and widows; and they with theirs had the residues. 
When these things were thus done, and commonly of (or by) all men beseeching was made, they asked the merciful Lord, for to be reconciled into the end to his servants. 
And of these that were with Timothy (or Timotheus) and Bacchides, striving against themselves, they slew over twenty thousand, and they wielded his strengths (or strongholds); and they parted more preys, and made even portion to (the) feeble folks, fatherless, and motherless, and widows, but and (also) to (the) elder men. 
And when they had gathered the arms or armours of them, diligently they putted together, or kept, all things in covenable places; forsooth they bare to Jerusalem the residue spoils. 
And they slew Philarches, that was with Timothy (or Timotheus), a man full of great trespasses, that had tormented (the) Jews in many things. 
And when (the) feasts of or for(the) victory were done in Jerusalem, they burnt them that had burnt (the) holy gates, that is to say, Callisthenes, when he had flown into an house; for why worthy meed (or reward) was yielded to them for their unpiousnesses. 
Forsooth the wickedest Nicanor, that brought a thousand merchants to the selling or buying of (the) Jews, 
was meeked, or made low, by (the) help of the Lord, of them which he guessed none; and when he had put away the cloth(es) of glory, he fled alone by privy places, and came to Antioch, and had (the) highest infelicity, or wretchedness, of (or over) the death of his host. 
And he that (had) promised him-(self) to restore tribute to (the) Romans, of (or from) the captivity of (the) men of Jerusalem, preached now that (the) Jews had one defender God, and for (or because of) him, they were unable for to be wounded, for they pursued laws ordained of him. 
