DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 6.
But in those days, when the number of disciples increased, the Greeks grudged against the Hebrews, for that their widows were despised in every day’s ministering. (But in those days, when the number of disciples increased, the Greeks grumbled against the Hebrews, because their widows did not receive their portion of each day’s sharing, or of the daily distribution.) 
And the twelve called together the multitude of (the) disciples, and said, It is not rightful, that we leave the word of God, and minister to boards, (or It is not right, that we leave the word of God, to serve tables). 
Therefore, brethren, behold ye men of you of good fame or of good witnessing, seven, full of the Holy Ghost, and of wisdom, whom we shall ordain on this work; (And so, brothers, look for, or find, men among you of good reputation, seven who be full of the Holy Spirit, and of wisdom, whom we shall ordain upon this work;) 
for we shall be busy to prayer, and to preach, or and (the) ministry, or preaching, of the word of God. (for we shall be busy with prayer, and with the preaching, or the ministering, of the word of God.) 
And the word pleased before all the multitude or And the word pleased to all the multitude; and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost (or a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit), and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas, a comeling, or a guest, (or a newcomer), a man of Antioch. 
They ordained these before the sight of the apostles, and they prayed, and laid (their) hands on them. 
And the word of the Lord waxed, and the number of the disciples in Jerusalem was much multiplied; also a much company of priests obeyed to the faith. (And the word of the Lord grew, or spread, and the number of the disciples in Jerusalem greatly increased; and also a great number of priests obeyed the faith.) 
And Stephen, full of grace and of strength, made wonders and great signs in the people. (And Stephen, full of grace and strength, made great wonders and miracles among the people.) 
But some rose (up) of (or from) the synagogue, that was called of Libertines, and Cyrenians, and of men of Alexandria, and of them that were of Cilicia and of Asia, and disputed with Stephen. 
And they might not withstand the wisdom and the spirit, that (he) spake. 
Then they privily sent men, that should say, that they have heard him saying words of blasphemy against Moses and God. 
And so they moved together the people, and the elder men (or the elders), and the scribes; and they came together, and took (hold of) him, and brought (him) into the council. 
And they ordained false witnesses, that said, This man ceaseth not to speak words against the holy place, and the law. 
For we heard him saying, That this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the traditions, which Moses betook (or delivered) to us. 
And all men that sat in the council beheld him, and saw his face as the face of an angel. 
