MATTHEW.
Chapter 15.
Then the scribes and the Pharisees came to him from Jerusalem, and said, 
Why break thy disciples the traditions of (the) elder men? or Why (do) thy disciples break the traditions, either the teachings, of (the) elder men?(or Why do thy disciples break the traditions of the elders?) for they wash not their hands, when they eat bread. 
He answered, and said to them, Why break ye the commandment of God for your tradition? 
For God said, Honour thy father and thy mother, and he that curseth father or mother, die he by death. 
But ye say, Whoever saith to father or mother, Whatever gift is of me, it shall profit to thee, (or Whatever gift is for me, it shall profit thee); 
and he hath not worshipped or he hath not honoured his father or his mother; and ye have made the commandment of God void (or empty) for your tradition. 
Hypocrites, Esaias the prophet, prophesied well of you, and said, (Hypocrites, the prophet Isaiah prophesied well about you, and said,) 
This people honoureth me with lips, but their heart is far from me; 
and they worship me without cause, or truly they worship me without cause, (or and they worship me for no good reason, or in vain), (while) teaching the doctrines and the commandments of men. 
And when the people were called together to him, he said to them, Hear ye, and understand ye. 
That thing that entereth into the mouth, defouleth not a man; but that thing that cometh out of the mouth, defouleth a man. (That which entereth into the mouth, defileth not a person; but that which cometh out of the mouth, defileth a person.) 
Then his disciples came, and said to him, Thou knowest or Knowest thou, that, if this word be heard, the Pharisees be offended? 
And he answered, and said, Every planting, that my Father of heaven hath not planted, shall be drawn up by the root. 
Suffer ye them (or But allow them); (for) they be blind, and (the) leaders of blind men. And if a blind man lead a blind man, both fall into the ditch. 
Peter answered, and said to him, Expound to us this parable. 
And he said, Yet be ye also without understanding?/Yet ye be without understanding? 
Understand ye not, that all thing that entereth into the mouth, goeth into the womb (or goeth into the belly), and is sent out into the going away? 
But those things that come forth from the mouth, go out from the heart, and those things defoul the man (or and those things defile the person). 
For of the heart go out evil thoughts or For out of the heart cometh evil thoughts, manslayings, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnessings (or false testimonies), blasphemies. 
These things it be that defoul a man; but to eat with hands not washed, defouleth not a man. (These be the things which defile a person; but to eat with hands not washed, defileth not a person.) 
And Jesus went out from thence, and went into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon. 
And lo! a woman of Canaan went out of those coasts, and cried, and said to him, Lord, the son of David, have mercy on me; my daughter is evil travailed of a fiend or of a devil. (And behold! a Canaanite woman from those parts cried to him, and said, Lord, the Son of David, have mercy on me; my daughter is greatly troubled and tormented by a demon.) 
And he answered not to her a word. And his disciples came, and prayed him, and said, Leave thou her, (or Let her go, or Send her away), for she crieth after us. 
He answered, and said, I am not sent, but to the sheep of the house of Israel that have perished. 
And she came, and worshipped him, and said, Lord, help me. (And she came, and honoured him, and said, Lord, help me.) 
Which answered, and said, It is not good to take the bread of children, and cast it to (the) hounds. 
And she said, Yes, Lord; for the whelps eat of the crumbs, that fall down from the board of their lords. (And she said, Yes, Lord; but even the pups can eat the crumbs, that fall down from their masters’ table.) 
Then Jesus answered, and said to her, A! woman, thy faith is great; be it done to thee, as thou wilt. And her daughter was healed from that hour (or at that moment). 
And when Jesus had passed from thence, he came beside the sea of Galilee. And he went up into an hill, and sat there. (And when Jesus had left there, he came beside Lake Galilee. And he went up onto a hill, and sat there.) 
And much people came to him, and had with them dumb men and crooked men, (or and lame men), feeble and blind, and many others; and they casted down them at his feet, or and they cast them down at his feet, (or and they set them down at his feet). And he healed them, 
so that the people wondered, seeing dumb men speaking, and crooked men going, (or and lame men walking), blind men seeing; and they magnified (the) God of Israel. 
And Jesus, when his disciples were called together, said to them, I have ruth of the people, for they have abided now three days with me, and have nothing to eat; and I will not leave them fasting, lest they fail in the way. (And Jesus, when his disciples were called together, said to them, I have compassion for the people, for now they have been here three days with me, and have nothing to eat; and I will not let them go away fasting, lest they faint on the way home.) 
And the disciples say to him, Whereof then so many loaves among us in (the) desert, to fulfill so great a people? And the disciples say to him, Therefore whereof so many loaves to us in (the) desert, (so) that we (can) fill so great a company of people? 
And Jesus said to them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few small fishes or and a few little fishes. 
And he commanded to the people, to sit to the meat on the earth. (And he commanded the people, to sit down on the ground for the meal.) 
And he took the seven loaves and (the) five fishes, and did thankings (or and gave thanks), and brake them, and gave (them) to his disciples; and the disciples gave (them) to the people. 
And all ate, and were fulfilled, or And all ate, and were filled, and they took (up) that that was left of the remnants (or and they gathered up the remaining pieces of food that were left), seven baskets full. 
And they that ate were four thousand of men, without (the) little children and (the) women. 
And when he had left the people (or And when he had let the people go), he went up into a boat, and came into the coasts of Magdala. 
