2ND MACCABEES.
Chapter 9.
In the same time Antiochus (re)turned again unhonestly (or with disgrace or dishonour) from Persia. 
For he had entered into that city, that is said Persepolis, that is, the chief city of Persia, and he attempted for to rob the temple, and oppress the city; but for (or because) the multitude ran together to (their) arms, they were turned into flight; and so it befell, that Antiochus after flight vile-like, or lowly, (re)turned again. 
And when he came about (to) Ecbatana, he knew what things were done against Nicanor and Timothy. 
Forsooth he was enhanced in wrath, and deemed that he might (re)turn into (the) Jews the wrong of them, that had driven him (away). And therefore he bade the chariot to be led in haste, doing journey without ceasing; for why heavenly doom drove, or constrained, him, for that he spake so proudly, that he shall come to Jerusalem, and to make it a gathering of (the) sepulchre(s) of (the) Jews. 
But the Lord God of Israel, that beholdeth all things, smote him with a wound incurable and invisible; for as he ended this same word, an hard sorrow of entrails took him, and bitter torments of inward things. 
And soothly justly enough, for he that had tormented the entrails of other men, with many and new torments, 
though he in no manner ceased of (or from) his malice. Forsooth over this he was filled with pride, and breathed fire in (his) soul against (the) Jews, and commanding the need for (it) to be hast(en)ed, it befell, that he going in fierceness fell down off the chariot, and that the members were travailed with the grievous hurtling (al)together of (his) body. 
And he that seemed to himself for to command also to (the) waves of the sea, and over man’s manner was filled with pride, and for to weigh in (the) balance the heights of (the) hills, was then made low to (the) earth, and was borne in a bier, either (a) horse-litter, and witnessed in himself the open virtue (or manifest power) of God; 
so that (the) worms boiled out of the body of the unpious man, and the quick (or living) fleshes of him floated out in sorrows. Also with the savour of him, and stinking, his host was grieved; 
and (now) no man might bear him, for (the) unsuffering of (his) stink (or his insufferable smell), that a little before (had) deemed him(self) for to touch the stars of heaven. 
Therefore hereby he was led down from grievous pride, and began for to come to (the) knowing of himself, and was warned by God’s vengeance, for by all moments his sorrows took increases. 
And when he might not then or now suffer his (own) stink, thus he said, It is just for to be subject to God, and that a deadly (or a mortal) man feel not even things to God. 
Forsooth the cursed man prayed (to) the Lord of these things, of whom he should not get mercy or of whom he should get no mercy. 
And now he desireth to yield free the city, to which he came hast(en)-ing, for to draw down it or to lead it down to (the) earth (or the ground), and for to make a sepulchre of things borne together. 
And now he promiseth to make the Jews even to (the) men of Athens, which Jews he said that he should not have worthy, yea, of (a) sepulchre, but to betake to fowls and wild beasts, for to be drawn, and to destroy with (their) little children; 
also to adorn with best gifts the holy temple, which he (had) robbed before, and to multiply (its) holy vessels, and to (the) giving of his rents (for the) costs (or charges) pertaining to (the) sacrifices; 
over these things and that he shall be made a Jew, and to walk by each place of the land, and to preach the power of God. 
But, for (the) sorrows ceased not, the just doom of God had above come on him (or had come upon him), he despaired, and wrote to (the) Jews, by manner of beseeching, an epistle, containing these things. 
To the best citizens, (the) Jews, most health, and welfare, and to be rich, or in prosperity, the king and prince Antiochus. 
If ye fare well, and your sons, and all things be to you of sentence, that is, befall at (or to) your will, we do most thankings. 
And I am ordained in sickness, and soothly I am mindful benignly of you, and I (re)turned again from places of Persia, and am caught with (a) grievous infirmity, and I led (it) needful for to have care for (the) common profit; 
and I despair not of (or for) myself, but I have much hope to escape (this) sickness. 
For I behold that also my father, in what times he led (an) host in(to)(the) higher places, showed, who after him should receive princehood; 
if that any contrary thing befell, or hard thing were told, these that were in countries (or in the land), shall know to whom the sum, or charge, of all things was left, and should not be troubled. 
To these things I beheld of (or to) next, that all the mighty men and neighbours espy times, and abide coming, and I have ordained my son Antiochus king, whom I, running again often into (the) high realms (or the high provinces of my kingdom), commended to many of you, and I wrote to him what things be subject. 
Therefore I pray you, and ask, that ye be mindful of (the) benefices openly and privily, and that each of you keep faith to(wards) me, and to(wards) my son. 
For I trust, that he shall do mildly, and manly (or humanely), or courteously, and pursue my purpose, and be common, or treatable, to you. 
Therefore the man-queller and blasphemer was smitten worst, and as he had treated others, he died in pilgrimage in (the) mountains, in wretchedful death. 
Forsooth Philip, his even-sucker, translated or transferred, or bare over, the body; which dreaded the son of Antiochus, and went to Ptolemy Philometor, into Egypt. 
