PSALMS.
Chapter 46.
To the overcomer, the song of the sons of Korah, for youths. Our God, thou art refuge, and virtue; helper in tribulations, that have found us greatly. (For the choirmaster, a song by the Korahites, for youths. O God, thou art our refuge, and our strength; a great helper in the midst of all the troubles, that have found us.) 
Therefore we shall not dread, while the earth shall be troubled; and the hills shall be borne over into the heart of the sea. (And so we shall not fear, when the earth be troubled; and the mountains be carried over into the heart of the sea.) 
The waters of them sounded, and were troubled; hills were troubled (al)together in the strength of him. (And when the waters roar, and be troubled; and the mountains be altogether troubled by his strength, or his might.) 
The fierceness of the flood maketh glad the city of God; the highest God hath hallowed his tabernacle. (There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God; and the Most High God hath hallowed his Temple.) 
God in the midst thereof shall not be moved; God shall help it early in the gray morrowtide. (God is there in its midst, and that city shall not be shaken, or destroyed; God shall help it early in the gray morning or at the break of day.) 
Heathen men were troubled (al)together, and realms were bowed down; God gave his voice, the earth was moved. (But the heathen were altogether troubled, and kingdoms were bowed down; yea, God gave his voice, and the earth shook.) 
The Lord of virtues is with us; God of Jacob is our up-taker. (The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge or the God of Jacob is our stronghold, or our defender.) 
Come ye, and see the works of the Lord; which wonders he hath set on the earth. 
He doing away battles till to the end of the land; shall all-bruise bow, and he shall break (al)together armours, and he shall burn shields with fire. (He doeth away, or stoppeth, all the battles unto the ends of the earth; he altogether breaketh the bows, and the arms, or the weapons, and he burneth up the shields with fire.) 
Give ye attention, and see ye, that I am God; I shall be enhanced among heathen men; and I shall be enhanced in earth. (And he saith, Give ye attention, and see ye, that I am God; I shall be exalted among the heathen; and I shall be exalted over all the earth.) 
The Lord of virtues is with us; God of Jacob is our up-taker. (The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge or the God of Jacob is our stronghold, or our defender.) 
