1ST PETER.
Chapter 5.
Therefore I, an even-elder man, and a witness of Christ’s passions, which also am a communer of that glory, that shall be showed in (the) time to come; beseech the elder men, that be among you, (And so I, a fellow elder, and a witness of the Messiah’s sufferings, who also (shall) partake of, or (shall) share in, that glory, which shall be shown, or shall be revealed, in the time to come; yea, I beseech the elders, who be among you,) 
feed ye the flock of God, that is among you, and purvey ye, not as constrained, but willfully, by God; not for love of foul winning, but willfully, (feed the flock of God, who be among you, yea, provide for them, not like someone who is compelled, but willingly, or by free will, through God; not for the love of foul gain, or for immoral profit, but willingly, or by free will,) 
neither as having lordship in the clergy, but (so) that ye be made (an) ensample to the flock, of (free) will or by intent. 
And when the prince of shepherds shall appear, ye shall receive the crown of glory, that may never fade (or that can never fade). 
Also, ye young men, be ye subject to elder men, and all show ye together meekness (or and all of you show humility and humbleness before them); for the Lord withstandeth proud men, but he giveth grace to meek men. 
Therefore be ye meeked under the mighty hand of God, that he raise you in the time or in the day of visitation, (And so be humble under the mighty hand of God, so that he can raise you up at the Time of Visitation, or on the Day of Visitation,) 
and cast ye all your busyness into him, for to him is (the) care of you. (and throw all your concerns onto him, for he careth for you.) 
Be ye sober, and wake ye, (or Be resolute, and be on watch), for your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion goeth about, seeking whom he shall devour. 
Whom against-stand ye, strong in the faith, witting that the same passion is made to that brotherhood of you, that is in the world. (Yea, he whom you must stand against, or whom you must withstand, being strong in the faith, and knowing that your brothers, who be in the world, experience the same suffering.) 
And God of all grace, that called you into his everlasting glory, you suffering a little in Christ Jesus, (or though you do suffer now for a short time in the Messiah Jesus), he shall perform, and shall confirm, and shall make firm. 
To him be glory and lordship, into worlds of worlds (or forever and ever). Amen. 
By Silvanus, a faithful brother to you as I deem, I wrote shortly; beseeching, and witnessing that this is the very grace of God, in which ye stand. (I have written this short letter by Silvanus, a faithful brother of yours whom I trust; beseeching, and testifying that this is the true grace of God, in which ye should stand.) 
The church that is gathered in Babylon, and Marcus, my son, greeteth you well. (The church that is gathered in Babylon, and my son Mark, send you hearty greetings.) 
Greet ye well together in holy kiss. Grace be to you all that be in Christ. Amen. (Give hearty greetings to one another with a holy kiss. Grace be to all of you who be in the Messiah. Amen.) 
