JOHN.
Chapter 1.
In the beginning was the word, that is, God’s son, (or God’s Son), and the word was at God, and God was the word. 
This (Word) was in the beginning at (or with) God. 
All things were made by him, and without him was made nothing or nought, (of) that thing that was made. (Everything was made by him, and without him nothing was made, out of all that was made.) 
In him was life, and the life was the light of men; 
and the light shineth in darknesses, and the darknesses comprehended not it. (and the light shineth in the darkness, but the darkness did not understand it.) 
A man was sent from God, to whom the name was John. 
This man came into witnessing, that he should bear witnessing of the light, that all men should believe by him. (This man came as a witness, that he would testify about the light, so that all men could believe through him.) 
He was not that light, but that he should bear witnessing of the light. (He was not that light, but he testified about the light.) 
There was a very light (or There was a true light), which (en)lighteneth each man that cometh into this world. 
He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. 
He came into his own things, and his (own) received him not. 
But how many ever received him, he gave to them power to be made the sons of God, to them that believe in his name (or to those who believe in him); 
the which not of bloods, neither of the will of (the) flesh, neither of the will of man, but be born of God. (who be born not of blood, nor by the desire of the flesh, nor by the desire of man, but be born of God.) 
And the word was made man, and dwelled among us, and we have seen the glory of him, as the glory of the one begotten Son of the Father, full of grace and of truth. And the word, that is, God’s son, (or God’s Son), is made flesh, or man, and hath dwelled in us, and we have seen the glory of him, the glory as of the one begotten of the Father, the son (or the Son) full of grace and truth. 
John beareth witnessing of him, and crieth, and saith, (or John testified about him, and cried out, and said), This (man) is he of whom I said, He that shall come after me, is made before me, for he was before me; 
and of the plenty of him we all have taken, and grace for grace. (and all of us have received so much from him, blessing upon blessing.) 
For the law was given by Moses; but grace and truth is made by Jesus Christ. 
No man saw ever God or No man ever saw God, no but the one begotten Son, that is in the bosom of the Father, he hath told out (about him). 
And this is the witnessing of John, when (the) Jews sent from Jerusalem priests and deacons to him, that they should ask him, Who art thou? (And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to him, so that they could ask him, Who art thou?) 
He acknowledged, and denied not, and he acknowledged, For I am not Christ. (He confessed, and did not deny it, yea, he confessed, I am not the Messiah.) 
And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? (or Elijah?) And he said, I am not. Art thou a prophet? or Art thou the prophet?(or Art thou the Prophet?) And he answered, Nay. 
Therefore they said to him, Who art thou? (So) That we (can) give an answer to these that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? 
He said, I am a voice of a crier in desert, Dress ye the way of the Lord, as Esaias the prophet, said. He saith, I am a voice of a man crying in desert, Dress ye the way of the Lord, as Esaias, the prophet, said.(He said, I (am) a voice of a (man) crying in the desert, Align or Make straight the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said.) 
And they that were sent, were of the Pharisees. 
And they asked him, and said to him, What then baptizest thou, if thou art not Christ, neither Elias, neither a prophet? (And they asked him, Why then do thou baptize, if thou art not the Messiah, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?) 
John answered to them, and said, I baptize in water, but in the middle of you hath stand or stood one, that ye know not; (John answered them, and said, I baptize in water, but in the midst of you hath stood one, whom ye know not;) 
he it is, that shall come after me, that was made before me, of whom I am not worthy to loose(n) the thong of his shoe. 
These things were done in Bethany beyond, or over, (the) Jordan, where John was baptizing. (These things were done in Bethany on the other side of the Jordan River, where John was baptizing.) 
Another (or The next) day John saw Jesus coming to him, and he said, Lo! the lamb of God; lo! he that doeth away the sins of the world. 
This is he, that I said of, After me is come a man or After me cometh a man, which was made before me; for he was rather or former than I (or for he already was, before that I was). 
And I knew him not, but that he be showed in Israel, therefore I came baptizing in water. 
And John bare witnessing, and said, I saw the Spirit coming down as a culver from heaven, and (it) dwelled on him or and dwelling upon him. (And John testified, and said, I saw the Spirit coming down like a dove from heaven, and dwelling upon him.) 
And I knew him not; but he that sent me to baptize in water, said to me, On whom thou seest the Spirit coming down, and dwelling on him, this is he, that baptizeth in the Holy Ghost, (or this is he, who baptizeth with the Holy Spirit). 
And I saw, and bare witnessing (or and I testify), that this is the Son of God. 
Another day John stood, and two of his disciples; 
and he beheld Jesus walking, and saith, Lo! the lamb of God. 
And (the) two disciples heard him speaking, and they followed Jesus. 
And Jesus turned, and saw them (pur)suing him, and saith to them, What seek ye? And they said to him, Rabbi, that is to say, Master, where dwellest thou? (And Jesus turned, and saw them following him, and said to them, What do ye seek? And they said to him, Teacher, where do you live?) 
And he saith to them, Come ye, and see. And they came, and saw where he dwelled; and dwelt with him that day. And it was as the tenth hour. (And he said to them, Come, and see. And they came, and saw where he lived; and remained with him that day. And it was about four o’clock in the afternoon.) 
And Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, was one of the twain, that heard of John, and had (pur)sued him. (And Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, was one of the two, who had heard that from John, and had followed him.) 
This found first his brother Simon, and he said to him, We have found Messias, that is to say, Christ; (And at once he found his brother Simon, and he said to him, We have found the Messiah, that is to say, the Christ;) 
and he led him to Jesus. And Jesus beheld him, and said, Thou art Simon, the son of Johanna (or the son of John); thou shalt be called Cephas, that is to say, Peter. 
And on the morrow he would go out into Galilee, and he found Philip; and he saith to him, (Pur)Sue thou me, (or and Jesus said to him, Follow me). 
Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and of Peter. 
Philip found Nathanael, and said to him, We have found Jesus, the son of Joseph, of Nazareth, (about) whom Moses wrote in the law and the prophets. 
And Nathanael said to him, Of Nazareth may some good thing be? (or Can anything good come from Nazareth?) Philip said to him, Come, and see. 
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and said of him, Lo! verily a man of Israel, in whom is no guile. (Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and said of him, Behold! truly a man of Israel, in whom there is no deceit.) 
Nathanael said to him, Whereof hast thou known me? Jesus answered, and said to him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou were under the fig tree, I saw thee. 
Nathanael answered to him, and said, Rabbi (or Teacher), thou art the Son of God, thou art (the) king of Israel. 
Jesus answered, and said to him, For I said to thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, thou believest; thou shalt see more than these things or thou shalt see more things than these. 
And he said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, (or Truly, I tell you the truth), ye shall see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending up and coming down on man’s Son. 
