1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 6.
Dare any of you that hath a cause against another, be deemed at wicked men, and not at holy men or saints? (Dare any of you who hath a case against another, be judged by wicked men, and not by God’s people?) 
Whether ye know not, that (the) saints shall deem this world? And if the world shall be deemed by you, be ye unworthy to deem the least things? (Do ye not know, that God’s people shall judge this world? And so if the world shall be judged by you, be ye unworthy to judge these least things?) 
Know ye not, that we shall deem angels? (or Do ye not know, that we shall judge the angels?)(and so then) how much more (the) worldly things? 
Therefore if ye have worldly dooms (or And so if ye have worldly judgements to make), ordain ye those contemptible men, or of little reputation, that be in the church, to deem (them). 
I say (this) to make you ashamed or I say (this) to your shame. So there is not any wise man, that may deem betwixt a brother and his brother, (or So is there not any wise man, who can judge between a brother and his brother); 
but brother with brother striveth in doom, and that among unfaithful men. (but a brother must fight, or argue, with another brother in court, and in front of men who be out of the faith?) 
And (so) now trespass is always among you, for ye have dooms among you (or because ye have legal wranglings among you). Why rather take ye not (the) wrong? why rather suffer ye not (the) deceit or (the) fraud? 
But also ye do wrong, and do fraud or and defraud, and that to brethren. 
Whether ye know not, that wicked men shall not wield the kingdom of God? Do not ye err; neither lechers, neither men that serve maumets, neither adulterers, neither lechers against kind, neither they that do lechery with men, (Do ye not know, that the wicked shall not possess the Kingdom of God? Do not err; neither lechers, nor men who serve idols, nor adulterers, nor lechers against nature, nor those who do lechery with men,) 
neither thieves, neither avaricious or covetous men, neither men full of drunkenness, neither cursers, neither raveners, shall wield the kingdom of God (or shall possess the Kingdom of God). 
And ye were sometime these things; but ye be washed, but ye be hallowed (or but ye be consecrated), but ye be justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, and in the Spirit of our God. 
All things be leaveful to me, but not all things be speedful. All things be leaveful to me, but I shall not be brought down under any man’s power. (All things be lawful for me, but not all things be expedient. All things be lawful for me, but I shall not be brought down under the power of any man.) 
Meat to the womb, and the womb to meats; and God shall destroy both this and that. And the body not to fornication, but to the Lord, and the Lord to the body. (Food for the belly, and the belly for food; and God shall destroy both this and that. And the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord is for the body.) 
For God raised the Lord, and shall raise us by his virtue. (For God raised the Lord, and he shall also raise us by his power.) 
Know ye not, that your bodies be members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ, and shall I make them the members of a whore? God forbid. (Do ye not know, that your bodies be parts of the Messiah? Shall I then take the parts of the Messiah, and make (them), or join (them), to the parts of a whore? God forbid.) 
Whether ye know not, that he that cleaveth to a whore, is made one body? For he saith, There shall be twain in one flesh. 
And he that cleaveth to the Lord, is one Spirit. 
Flee ye fornication; all sin whatever sin a man doeth, is without the body (or is outside the body); but he that doeth fornication, sinneth against his body. 
Whether ye know not, that your members be the temple of the Holy Ghost, that is in you, whom ye have of God, and ye be not your own? (Do ye not know, that your bodies be the temple of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom ye have received from God, and ye be not your own?) 
For ye be bought with (a) great price. Glorify ye, and bear ye God in your body, (or Glorify, and carry or bear about God in your body). 
