ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 46.
Jesus (or Joshua the son of) Nun, the successor of Moses in prophets (or in prophecies), was strong in battle, that was great by or after his name. The greatest into the health (or the deliverance) of (the) chosen men of God, to overcome enemies rising against them, (so) that he should get the heritage of Israel. 
Which or What glory he got in raising (up) his hands, and in casting sharp arrows against (the) cities. 
Who before him against-stood so? or Who before him so withstood? for why the Lord himself smote the enemies. 
Whether the sun was not letted (or hindered) in the wrathfulness of him, and one day was made as twain or two? 
He called to help the highest God, mighty in overcoming enemies on each side; and God, great and holy, heard him, 
in stones of hail of full great virtue (or of power). He made assault against the folk enemy or the hostile folk, and in the coming down he lost (or destroyed) the adversaries; (so) that (the) heathen men know the might of him, for it is not easy to fight against the Lord; and he pursued or followed(the) mighty men at the back or behind. 
And in the days of Moses, he and Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, did mercy; to stand against the enemy, and to forbid the folk from sins, and to refrain or to draw away the grutching (or the grumbling) of malice. 
And they twain or two were steadfast, and were delivered from peril, of (or from) the number of six hundred thousand footmen, to bring them into the heritage, into the land that floweth (with) milk and honey. 
And the Lord gave strength to that Caleb, and till into his eld (age) virtue (or strength) dwelled perfectly to (or with) him; (so) that he went up into the high place(s) of the land, and his seed got (an) heritage (or inheritance). 
And all the children of Israel saw, that it is good to obey to (the) holy God. 
And all (the) judges by their name(s), the heart of whom was not corrupt(ed)by avarice, but were strong in battle, (and) which were not turned away from the Lord by idolatry; (so) that the mind (or the memory) of them be in blessing, 
and their bones appear or burgeon from their place; and their name dwelleth without end, for the glory of holy men dwelleth at (or with) the sons of them. 
Samuel, the prophet of the Lord, that was loved of (or by) his Lord God, made new or renewed the empire, and anointed princes in (or over) his folk. 
In the law of the Lord, he deemed the congregation, and he saw the Lord of Jacob, 
and in his faith, he was proved a (true) prophet. And he was known faithful in (or by) his words, for he saw the Lord of light. 
And he called into help the Lord Almighty, in overcoming enemies standing about on each side, in the offering of a man undefouled (or undefiled). 
And the Lord thundered from heaven, and in (or with)a great sound he made his voice heard. 
And he all-brake or trod (down) the princes of (the) men of Tyre, and the dukes (or rulers) of (the) Philistines. 
And before the time of (the) end of his life, and of the world, he gave witnessing (or testimony) in the sight of the Lord, and of Christ (or of his christ, or his anointed), that is, Saul, anointed into king; he took not of (or from) any man riches, yea, till to the shoe; and no man accused him. 
And after this he slept, and he made known to the king, that is, (to) Saul, and he showed to him the end of his life; and he enhanced (or raised up) his voice from the earth in prophecy, to do away the wickedness of the folk. 
