COLOSSIANS.
Chapter 3.
Therefore if ye have risen together with Christ, seek ye those things that be above, where Christ is sitting on the right half of God, (or at the right hand, or on the right side, of God). 
Savour ye or Understand ye those things that be above, not those (things) that be on the earth. 
For ye be dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. 
For when Christ shall appear, (who is) your life, then also ye shall appear with him in glory. 
Therefore slay ye your members, which be on the earth, fornication, uncleanness, lechery, evil covetousness, and avarice (or greed), which is (the) service of maumets, or of simulacra, (or which is being in service to idols); 
for which things the wrath of God came on the sons of unbelief; 
in which also ye walked sometime, when ye lived in them (or when ye lived among them). 
But now put ye away all things, wrath, indignation, malice, blasphemy and foul words of your mouth. 
Do not ye lie, or gab, together; despoil ye you(rselves) from the old man with his deeds, 
and clothe ye the new man, that is made new again into the knowing of God, after the image of him that made him; 
where is not male and female, heathen man and Jew, circumcision and prepuce, barbarous and Scythian, bondman and free, but all things and in all things Christ. (where there is not male and female, Gentile and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian and Scythian, slave and free man, but the Messiah is all and in all.) 
Therefore ye, as the chosen of God, holy and loved, clothe ye you with the entrails of mercy, benignity, and meekness (or humility), temperance, patience; 
and support ye each one (the) other, or bearing up together, and forgive to yourselves, if any man against any (other) hath a quarrel; as the Lord Christ forgave to you, so also ye. (and support one another, and forgive each other, if anyone hath a quarrel against another; like the Lord Messiah forgave you, so ye also should forgive.) 
And upon all these things have ye charity (or love), that is the bond of perfectness or the bond of perfection. 
And the peace of Christ enjoy in your hearts, in which ye be called in one body, and be ye kind. 
The word of Christ dwell in you plenteously, in all wisdom; and teach and admonish yourselves in psalms, and hymns, and spiritual songs, in grace singing in your hearts to the Lord. (Let the Messiah’s words remain plentifully in you, providing all wisdom; and teach and admonish each other with psalms, and hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with thanksgiving in your hearts to the Lord.) 
All thing(s), whatever thing ye do, in word or in deed, all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, doing thankings to God and to the Father by him, or doing thankings to God the Father by him, (or giving thanks to God the Father through him). 
Women, be ye subject to your husbands, as it behooveth in the Lord. 
Men, love ye your wives, and do not ye be bitter to them. 
Sons, obey ye to your father and mother by all things or in all things; for this is well pleasing in the Lord. (Sons, obey your father and mother in everything, for this is greatly pleasing to the Lord.) 
Fathers, do not ye provoke your sons to indignation, (so) that they be not made feeble-hearted. 
Servants, obey ye by all things to fleshly lords, not serving at the eye, as pleasing to men, but in simpleness of heart, dreading the Lord God, (or but with an honest, or a sincere, heart, having fearful reverence for the Lord). 
Whatever ye do, work ye of will as to the Lord and not to men; (Whatever ye do, do it or work it with the thought that it is done for the Lord and not for men;) 
witting that of the Lord ye shall take yielding of heritage. Serve ye to the Lord Christ. (knowing that from the Lord ye shall receive your inheritance as a reward. Serve the Lord Messiah.) 
For he that doeth injury or wrong shall receive that that he did evil; and (the) acception or (the) taking of persons is not with God, (or and the favouring of persons is not done by God). 
