MARK.
Chapter 7.
And the Pharisees and some of the scribes came from Jerusalem together to him. 
And when they had seen some of his disciples eat bread with unwashen hands, they blamed them, (or they rebuked them). 
For the Pharisees and all the Jews eat not, no but they wash often their hands, holding the traditions of (the) elder men. 
And when they turn again from the market (or And when they return from the market), they eat not, no but they be washed; and many other things there be, that be taken to them to keep (or to obey), as (the) washing of cups, and of water vessels or of cruets, and of vessels of brass, and of beds. 
And (the) Pharisees and (the) scribes asked him, and said, Why go not thy disciples after the tradition(s) of (the) elder men, but with unwashen (or unwashed) hands they eat bread? 
And he answered, and said to them, Esaias prophesied well of you, hypocrites, (or Isaiah prophesied well about you, hypocrites), as it is written, This people worshippeth me with (their) lips or This people honoureth me with (their) lips, but their heart is far from me; 
and in vain they worship me, teaching the doctrines and the behests or the commandments of men. 
For ye leave the commandment of God, and hold (fast to) the traditions of men, as the washing of water vessels or of cruets, and of cups; and many other things like these ye do. 
And he said to them, Well ye have made the commandment of God void (or empty and useless), to keep your tradition. 
For Moses said, Worship thy father and thy mother or Honour thou thy father and thy mother; and he that curseth father or mother, die he by death. 
But ye say, If a man say to (his) father or mother, Corban, that is, Whatever gift is of me, it shall profit to thee, (or Whatever gift is for me, it shall also profit thee); 
and over or further(more) ye suffer not him to do anything to (his) father or mother, (and more than this, ye do not allow him to do anything for his father or mother,) 
and ye break the word of God by your tradition, that ye have given; and ye do many other such things. 
And he again called the people, and said to them, Ye all hear me, and understand. 
Nothing that is without a man, that entereth into him, may defoul him (or can defile him); but those things that come forth of a man, those it be that defoul a man. 
If any man have ears of hearing, hear he. Forsooth if any man have ears to hear, hear he. 
And when he was entered into an house, from the people, his disciples asked him (about) the parable. 
And he said to them, Ye be unwise also. Understand ye not, that all thing withoutforth that entereth into a man, may not defoul him? (or Do ye not understand, that everything from outside that entereth into a man, cannot defile him?) 
for it hath not entered into his heart, but into the womb, and beneath it goeth out, purging all meats (or cleaning out all the food). 
But he said, The things that go out of a man, those defoul a man (or these defile a person). 
For from within, of the heart of men come forth evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, manslayings, 
thefts, avarices, or covetousness, or over-hard keeping of goods, wickednesses, guile, unchastity, evil eye, blasphemies, pride, folly (or foolishness). 
All these evils come forth from within, and defoul a man (or and defile a person). 
And Jesus rose up from thence, and went into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon. And he went into an house, and would that no man knew; and he might not be hid. (And Jesus left there, and went to the coasts of Tyre and Sidon. And he went into a house, and wanted that no one knew that he was there; but he could not stay hidden.) 
For a woman, anon as she heard of him (or as soon as she heard about him), whose daughter had an unclean spirit, entered, and fell down at his feet. 
And the woman was (a) heathen, of the generation of Syrophenician. And she prayed him, that he would cast out a devil from her daughter, (or And she beseeched him, that he would throw a demon out of her daughter). 
And he said to her, Suffer thou (or Allow) that the children be fulfilled first or Suffer thou that the sons be filled first; for it is not good to take the bread of children, and give it to hounds. 
And she answered, and said to him, Yes, Lord; for little whelps eat under the board of the crumbs of (the) children. (And she answered him, Yes, Lord; but even little pups can eat the crumbs of the children under the table.) 
And Jesus said to her, Go thou, for this word the fiend (or the demon) went out of thy daughter. 
And when she was gone into her house home or And when she had gone home/And when she had gone into her house, she found the damsel lying on the bed, and the devil gone out from her. (And when she went home, she found the young girl lying on the bed, and the demon had gone out of her.) 
And again Jesus went out from the coasts of Tyre, and came through Sidon to the sea of Galilee, between the middle of the coasts of Decapolis. 
And they bring to him a man deaf and dumb, and prayed him to lay his hand/s on him. 
And he took him aside from the people, and put his fingers into his ears; and he spat, and touched his tongue. 
And he beheld into heaven, and sorrowed within, and said to him, Ephphatha, that is, Be thou opened. 
And anon (or at once) his ears were opened, and the band of his tongue was unbound, and he spake rightly. 
And he commanded to them, that they should say to no man; but how much he commanded to them, so much the more they preached, 
and by so much the more they wondered, and said, He did well all things, both he hath made deaf men to hear, and dumb men to speak. 
