MARK.
Chapter 5.
And they came over the sea into the country of Gadarenes. 
And after that he was gone out of the boat, anon a man in an unclean spirit ran out of the burials (or out from the graves) to him. (And after that he had gotten out of the boat, at once a man with an unclean spirit ran out from the tombs to him.) 
Which man had an house in (the) burials or in (the) graves, and neither with chains now might any man bind him. (And this man lived among the tombs, and now no man could bind or restrain him, not even with chains.) 
For oft times he was bound in stocks and chains, and he had broken the chains, and had broken the stocks to small gobbets (or and had broken the stocks into small pieces), and no man might make him tame or and no man might tame him. 
And (for)evermore, night and day, in (the) burials, and in (the) hills, he was crying and beating himself with stones. (And always, night and day, among the tombs, and in the hills, he was crying and beating himself with stones.) 
And he saw Jesus afar, and ran, and worshipped him. (And he saw Jesus from afar, and ran over, and honoured him.) 
And he cried with (a) great voice, and said, What to me and to thee, thou Jesus, the Son of the highest God? I conjure thee (or I adjure thee) by God, that thou torment me not. 
And Jesus said to him, Thou unclean spirit, go out from the man. 
And Jesus asked him, What is thy name? And he saith to him, A legion is my name; for we be many. 
And he prayed Jesus much, that he should not put them out of the country. (And he greatly beseeched Jesus, that he would not send them out of the province.) 
And there was there about the hill a great flock of swine or a great drove of hogs pasturing. (And there was there about the hill a great herd of pigs at pasture.) 
And the spirits prayed Jesus, and said, Send us into the swine, or Send us into the hogs, (or Send us into the pigs), (so) that we enter into them. 
And anon Jesus granted (that) to them. And the unclean spirits went out, and entered into the swine or (and) into the hogs, and with a great rush the flock was cast headlong into the sea, a two thousand, and they were drenched in the sea. (And at once Jesus granted that to them. And the unclean spirits went out, and entered into the pigs, and with a great rush the herd was thrown headlong into the lake, about two thousand of them, and they were drowned in the lake.) 
And they that kept (watch over) them, fled or Soothly they that fed them, fled, and told into the city, and into the fields; and they went out, to see what was done. 
And they came to Jesus, and saw him that had been travailed of the fiend, sitting clothed, and of whole mind; and they dreaded. (And they came to Jesus, and saw him who had been troubled by the demon, sitting clothed, and being of whole mind; and they had fear, or and they were afraid.) 
And they that saw, how it was done to him that had a fiend (or how it was done to him who had a demon), and of the swine or and of the hogs, told to them. 
And they began to pray him, that he should go away from their coasts. (And they beseeched him, that he would go away from their coasts.) 
And when he went up into a boat, he that was travailed of the devil, began to pray him, that he should be with him. (And when he went up into the boat, he who was troubled by the demon, beseeched him, that he would go with him.) 
But Jesus received him not, but said to him, Go thou into thine house to thine, and tell to them, how great things the Lord hath done to thee, and had mercy of thee. (But Jesus would not take him, but said to him, Go back to thine house or thy family, yea, unto thine, and tell them what great things the Lord hath done for thee, and how he had mercy on thee.) 
And he went forth, and began to preach in Decapolis, how great things Jesus had done to him (or what great things Jesus had done for him); and all men wondered. 
And when Jesus had gone up into the boat again over the sea, much people came together to him, and was about (or beside) the sea. 
And one of the princes of the synagogues (or And one of the leaders of one of the synagogues), by name Jairus, came, and saw him, and he fell down at his feet, 
and prayed him much, and said, My daughter is nigh dead; come thou, put thine hand on her, that she be safe, and live. (and greatly beseeched him, and said, My daughter is near death; come thou, put thine hand on her, so that she can be saved, and live, or so that she can be healed, and live.) 
And he went forth with him, and much people (pur)sued him, and thrust, either oppressed, him. (And he went with him, and many people followed him, and pressed him.) 
And a woman that had been in the bloody flux (for) twelve years, And a woman that was in the flux of blood (for) twelve years,(And a woman who had a flowing, or an issue, of blood for twelve years,) 
and had received many things of full many leeches, and had spended all her good(s), (or and had received many treatments from a great many physicians, and had spent all her money), and was nothing amended or and (had) nothing profited, but was rather the worse, 
when she had heard of Jesus, she came among the people behind, and touched his cloth (or and touched his cloak). 
For she said, That if I touch yea his cloth, I shall be safe. (For she said to herself, If I touch even his cloak, then I shall be saved, or I shall be healed.) 
And anon (or at once) the well of her blood was dried up, and she feeled in her body that she was healed of the sickness. 
And anon Jesus knew in himself the virtue that was gone out of him (or And at once Jesus knew in himself that power had gone out of him), and he turned to the people, and said, Who touched my clothes? 
And his disciples said to him, Thou seest the people thrusting or pressing thee, and sayest, Who touched me? 
And Jesus looked about to see her that had done this thing. 
And the woman dreaded, and quaked, (or And the woman was afraid, and shook), witting that it was done in her, and came, and felled down before him, and said to him all the truth. Forsooth the woman dreading, and trembling, knowing that it was done in her, came, and fell down before him, and said to him all the truth. 
And Jesus said to her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee safe; go in peace, and be thou whole of thy sickness. (And Jesus said to her, Daughter, thy faith hath saved thee, or thy faith hath healed thee; go in peace, and be thou healed of thy sickness.) 
Yet while he spake, messengers came to the prince of the synagogue (or messengers came to the leader of the synagogue), and said, Thy daughter is dead; what travailest thou the master (or the teacher) further? 
But when the word was heard that was said, Jesus said to the prince of the synagogue, Do not thou dread, only believe thou. (But when this word was heard that was said, Jesus said to the leader of the synagogue, Do not fear, only believe.) 
And he took no man to (pur)sue him (or And he allowed no one to follow him), but Peter, and James, and John, the brother of James. 
And they came into the house of the prince of the synagogue. And he saw noise, and men weeping and wailing much. (And they came into the house of the leader of the synagogue. And he saw a commotion, with people loudly weeping and wailing.) 
And he went in, and said to them, What be ye troubled (about), and weep? (or Why be ye troubled, and weep?) The damsel is not dead, but sleepeth. 
And they scorned him. But when (they) all were put out, he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and them that were with him, and they entered, where the damsel lay. 
And he held the hand of the damsel, and said to her, Talitha, cumi, that is to say, Damsel, I say to thee, arise. 
And anon the damsel rose (or And at once the young girl rose), and walked; and she was of twelve years. And they were abashed with a great astonishing. 
And he commanded to them greatly, that no man should know it. And he commanded (them) to give her meat or And he commanded (them) to give to her (something) to eat. 
