1ST JOHN.
Chapter 2.
My little sons, I write to you these things, (so) that ye sin not. But if any man sinneth, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ (who is)just, 
and he is the forgiveness or (the) helping for our sins; and not only for our sins, but also for the sins of all the world. 
And in this thing we know, that we know him, if we keep his commandments (or if we obey his commands). 
He that saith that he knoweth God, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and (the) truth is not in him. (He who saith that he knoweth God, and obeyeth not his commands, is a liar, and the truth is not in him.) 
But the charity of God is perfect verily in him, that keepeth his word (or But the love of God is truly perfect in him, who obeyeth his word or his commands), or Forsooth who keepeth his word, verily in him is perfect charity (or But who obeyeth his word, truly in him is perfect love). In this thing we know, that we be in him, if we be perfect in him. 
He that saith, that he dwelleth in him, he oweth to walk, as he walked. (He who saith, that he remaineth in him, he ought to walk, like he walked.) 
Most dear brethren(or Most dear brothers), I write to you, not a new commandment, but the old commandment, that ye had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word, that ye heard. 
Again I write to you a new commandment, that is true both in him and in you; for (the) darknesses be passed (away), and very light shineth now, (or for the darkness hath gone away, and the true light shineth now). 
He that saith, that he is in (the) light, and hateth his brother, is in darknesses yet. (He who saith, that he is in the light, and hateth his brother, is still in darkness.) 
He that loveth his brother, dwelleth in (the) light, (or He who loveth his brother, remaineth in the light), and (a) cause of stumbling is not in him. 
But he that hateth his brother, is in darknesses, and wandereth in darknesses, and knoweth not whither he goeth; for darknesses have blinded his eyes. (But he who hateth his brother, is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not where he goeth; for the darkness hath blinded his eyes.) 
Little sons, I write to you, that your sins be forgiven to you for (the sake of) his name. Little sons, I write to you, for your sins be forgiven to you for his name. 
Fathers, I write to you, for ye have known him, that is from the beginning, (or Fathers, I write to you, because ye have known him, who is from the beginning). Young men, I write to you, for ye have overcome the wicked (one). I write to you, young children or infants, for ye have known the Father. 
I write to you, brethren, for ye have known him, that is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, for ye be strong, and the word of God dwelleth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked (one). (I write to you, brothers, for ye have known him, who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, for ye be strong, and God’s Word liveth in you, or and God’s word remaineth in you, and ye have overcome the Wicked One.) 
Do not ye love the world, nor those things that be in the world. If any man loveth the world, the charity of the Father is not in him. (Do not love the world, nor those things that be in the world. If anyone loveth the world, the love of the Father is not in them.) 
For all thing that is in the world, is covetousness of (the) flesh, and covetousness of (the) eyes, and (the) pride of life, which is not of the Father, but it is of the world. 
And the world shall pass (away), and the covetousness of it; but he that doeth the will of God, dwelleth into without end, (or but he who doeth God’s will, remaineth forever, or liveth forever). 
My little sons, the last hour is; and as ye have heard, that (the) antichrist cometh, now many antichrists be made; wherefore we know, that it is the last hour. (My little sons, it is the Last Hour; and as ye have heard, that the Anti-Messiah, or the False Messiah, or the Enemy of the Messiah, cometh, and that now many anti-messiahs have appeared; and so we know, that it is the Last Hour.) 
They went forth from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they had dwelt with us; but that they be known, that they be not all of us. (They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have remained with us; but now they be known, or but now it be known, that they be not of us.) 
But ye have (an) anointing or (an) unction of the Holy Ghost, and know all things. (But ye have an anointing of the Holy Spirit, and know everything, or and know all the truth.) 
I wrote not to you, as to men that know not the truth, but as to men that know it, and for each leasing is not of truth (or and because every lie is not of the truth). 
Who is a liar, no but this that denieth that Jesus is not Christ? This is (the) antichrist, that denieth the Father, and the Son. (Who is a liar? none but he who denieth that Jesus is the Messiah. This is the Anti-Messiah, or the False Messiah, or the Enemy of the Messiah, who denieth the Father, and the Son.) 
For each that denieth the Son, hath not the Father; but he that acknowledgeth the Son, hath also the Father. 
That thing that ye heard at or from the beginning, dwell it in you; for if that thing dwelleth in you, which ye heard at (or from) the beginning, ye shall dwell in the Son and in the Father. (That which ye heard from the beginning, let it remain in you; for if that remaineth in you, which ye have heard from the beginning, ye shall remain in the Son and in the Father.) 
And this is the promise, that he promised to us, everlasting life, (or Eternal Life, or eternal life). 
I wrote these things to you, of them that deceive you, (I wrote these things to you, about those who deceive you,) 
and that the anointing which ye received of him, dwell in you. And ye have not need, that any man teach you, but as his anointing teacheth you of all things, and it is true, and it is not leasing; and as he taught you, dwell ye in him. (and so that the anointing which ye have received from him, remain in you. And ye have no need, that any man teach you, for his anointing teacheth you everything, and it is true, and it is not a lie; and so as he taught you, remain in him, or live in him.) 
And now, ye little sons, dwell ye in him, that when he shall appear, we have trust, and be not confounded of him in his coming. (And now, ye little sons, remain in him, so that when he shall appear, we have trust, and be not ashamed of him at his coming.) 
If ye know that he is just, know ye that also each that doeth rightwiseness, is born of him. (If ye know that he is just or is righteous, know also that each one who doeth righteousness, is his child.) 
