HEBREWS.
Chapter 8.
But a capital, that is, a short comprehending of many things, on those things that be said. We have such a bishop, that sat on the right half of the seat of greatness in heavens, (But a recapitulation of those things that have already been said. We have such a High Priest, who sat on the right side, or at the right hand, of the throne of the Greatness in heaven,) 
the minister of (the) saints, and of the very tabernacle, that God made or set, and not man. (the minister of God’s people, and of the true Tabernacle, or the true Tent, that God made,or pitched, and not man.) 
For each bishop is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices; wherefore it is need(ful), that also this bishop have something that he shall offer. (For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices; and so it is necessary, that also this High Priest have something that he shall offer.) 
Therefore if he were on (the) earth, he were no priest, when there were (priests) that should offer gifts by the law, 
which serve to the exemplar, or (the) figure, and (the) shadow of heavenly things. As it was answered to Moses, when he should end or when he should make the tabernacle, See thou, he said, make thou all things by the exemplar, that is showed to thee in the mount, (or make all things by the example, or the pattern, that was shown to thee on Mount Sinai). 
But now he hath gotten a better ministry, by so much as he is a mediator of a better testament (or because he is a mediator of a better covenant), which is confirmed with better promises. 
For if that first had lacked blame, the place of the second should not have been sought. 
For he reproving them saith, Lo! days come, saith the Lord, and I shall make perfect a new testament on the house of Israel, and on the house of Judah; (For he rebuking them said, Behold! the days shall come, saith the Lord, and I shall complete a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;) 
not like the testament that I made to their fathers, in the day in which I caught their hand, that I should lead them out of the land of Egypt; for they dwelled not perfectly in my testament, and I have despised them, saith the Lord. (not like the covenant which I made with their fathers, on the day in which I took their hands, so that I could lead them out of the land of Egypt; for they did not remain perfectly, or faithfully, in my covenant, and so I have despised them, saith the Lord.) 
But this is the testament which I shall assign or I shall dispose to the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord, in giving my laws into the souls of them, and into the hearts of them I shall above write them; and I shall be to them into a God or and I shall be to them into God, and they shall be to me into a people. (But this is the covenant which I shall allot to the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord, in putting my laws into their minds, and I shall write them upon their hearts; and I shall be their God, and they shall be my people.) 
And each man shall not teach his neighbour, and each man his brother, saying, Know thou the Lord; for all men shall know me, from the least to the more of them, (or for all shall know me, from the least unto the greatest of them). 
For I shall be merciful to the wickedness of them, and now I shall not bethink on the sins of them (or and now I shall not remember their sins). 
But in saying a new (testament) the former (testament) waxed old; and that that is of many days, and waxeth old, is nigh the death. (But in proclaiming a new covenant, the former covenant hath grown old; and that which is of many days, and groweth old, is nearly dead, or shall soon die.) 
