ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 51.
Lord King, I shall acknowledge to thee; and I shall (al)together praise thee, my Saviour. I shall acknowledge to thy name, 
for thou art made an helper and defender to me; and thou hast delivered my body from perdition, from the snare of a wicked tongue, and from the lips of them that work a leasing (or a lie); and in the sight of them that stand nigh, thou art made an helper to me. 
And thou hast delivered me, by or after the multitude of mercy of thy name, from roarers made ready to (or for) meat; from the hands of them that sought my soul, and from many tribulations that (en)compassed me; 
from (the) over-laying of flame that compassed me, and in the midst of (the) fire I was not burnt; 
from the depth of the womb of hell, and from a tongue defouled, and from a word of leasing (or from lying words); 
from a wicked king, and from a tongue unjust or an unrightwise tongue. Unto the death, my soul shall praise thee, Lord; and my life was nighing in (or to) hell (or the grave) beneath. 
They compassed me on each side, and none was that helped (me); I was beholding into (or looking for) the help of men, and none was. 
Lord, I had mind on thy mercy, and on thy working (al)together, that be from the world; for thou deliverest them that abide thee, and thou deliverest them from the hand(s) of heathen men. 
Thou enhancedest my dwelling on (the) earth; and I besought for death floating or flowing down. 
I called to help the Lord, (the) father (or the Father) of my Lord, that he forsake not me in the day of my tribulation, and forsake not me with-out help, in the time of them that be proud. 
I shall praise thy name continual-ly, and I shall praise it (al)together in acknowledging or in confession; and my prayer is heard. 
And thou hast delivered me from perdition, and thou hast delivered me from the wicked time. Therefore I shall acknowledge, and I shall say praising to thee; and I shall bless the name of the Lord. 
When yet I was younger, before that I erred, or that I wandered, (or before that I travelled abroad), I sought wisdom openly in my prayer. 
Before the time of eld (age), I asked for it, and unto the last things, I shall inquire (for) it or I shall greatly seek it; 
and it shall flower as a grape ripe before others. Mine heart was glad therein or in it, my foot went a right-ful way; from my youth I sought it. 
I bowed down a little mine ear, and I took it. I found much wisdom in myself, 
and I profited much therein or much I profited in it. I shall give glory to him, that giveth wisdom to me. 
For why I took counsel to do it; I loved fervently or greatly(that which is) good, and I shall not be (a)shamed. 
My soul wrestled together therein or in it; and I was confirmed in doing it. I stretched forth mine hands on high; and my soul shined or wailed in the wisdom of him, and he (en)lightened mine uncunnings, (or my unknowings, or my ignorances). 
I (ad)dressed (or directed) my soul to it; and I found it in knowing (or in knowledge). I had peaceably from the beginning an heart with those, that is, works, either (en) lightenings of wisdom, or I welded with them (my) heart from the beginning (or I have joined my heart with it from the beginning); for this thing I shall not be forsaken. 
My soul was disturbed (or troubled) in seeking it; therefore I shall have peaceably or shall wield a good possession. 
For why the Lord gave to me a tongue (for) my meed (or my reward); and in (or with) it I shall praise him. 
Ye untaught men, cometh nigh to me; and gather ye you into the house of teaching. 
What tarry ye yet? or What yet ye tarry? and what say ye in these things? your souls thirst greatly. 
I opened my mouth, and I spake, Buy ye wisdom to you (or for your-selves) without silver, 
and make your neck subject to the yoke thereof, and your soul receive teaching, or and your neck under-layeth to the yoke of it, and your soul undertake discipline; for why it is in the next to find it. 
See ye with your eyes, that I travailed (only) a little, and (then) I found much rest to (or for) me. 
Take ye teaching in (or for) much number of silver, and wield ye plenteous gold therein. 
Your soul be glad in the mercy of him; and ye shall not be (a)shamed in the praising of him. 
Work ye your work before the time; and he shall give to you your meed (or reward) in his (good) time. 
