PSALMS.
Chapter 80.
To victory; this psalm is the witnessing of Asaph for lilies. Thou that governest Israel, give attention; that leadest forth Joseph as a sheep. Thou that sittest on cherubim, be showed (For the choirmaster, to the tune of ‘The lilies of the testimony’, a song by Asaph. Thou who governest Israel, take heed; thou who leadest forth Joseph like a flock of sheep. Thou who sittest upon cherubim, show thyself) 
before Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh. Stir thy power, and come thou, that thou make us safe. (to Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh. Stir up thy power, and come thou, and save us.) 
God of virtues, turn thou us (again); and show thy face, and we shall be safe. (God of hosts, bring us back; and shine thy face upon us, and we shall be saved.) 
Lord God of virtues, how long shalt thou be wroth on the prayer of thy servant(s)? (Lord God of hosts, how long shalt thou be angry with thy people’s prayers?) 
How long shalt thou feed us with the bread of tears; and shalt give drink to us with tears in (great) measure? (How long shalt thou feed us with tears, instead of bread? and for drink, give us more tears, or even greater sorrow?) 
Thou hast set us into against-saying to our neighbours; and our enemies have scorned us. (Thou hast made our neighbours to speak out against us; and our enemies have mocked us.) 
God of virtues, turn thou us (again); and show thy face, and we shall be safe. (God of hosts, bring us back; and shine thy face upon us, and we shall be saved.) 
Thou translatedest a vine from Egypt; thou castedest out heathen men, and plantedest it. (Thou broughtest up a vine out of Egypt; thou threwest out the heathen, and then thou plantedest that vine, that is, us.) 
Thou were leader of the way in the sight thereof; and thou plantedest the roots thereof, and it filled the land. (Thou madest a place for it on the way; and it planted its roots, and it filled the land.) 
The shadow thereof covered hills; and the branches thereof filled the cedars of God. (Its shadow covered the hills; and its branches were thick, like the cedars of God.) 
It stretched forth his scions till to the sea, and the generations thereof till to the flood. (It stretched out its branches unto the Mediterranean Sea, and as far as the Euphrates River.) 
Why hast thou destroyed the wall thereof; and all men that go forth by the way, gather away the grapes thereof? (But why hast thou destroyed the wall around it? so that now all those who go forth by the way, can gather up, or take away, all of its grapes?) 
A boar (out) of the wood destroyed it; and a singular wild beast devoured it. 
God of virtues, be thou turned (again to us); behold from heaven, and see, and visit this vine. (God of hosts, turn thou again to us; look down from heaven, and see us in dire straits, and help us or and care for this vine.) 
And make thou it perfect, which thy right hand planted; and behold thou on the son of man, which thou hast confirmed to thee. (And make thou perfect what thy right hand hath planted; yea, look thou upon the son of man, whom thou hast made strong for thyself, or yea, look thou upon the branch, that thou hast made strong for thyself.) 
(These) Things (were) burnt with fire, and undermined; (they who did this thing) shall perish for the blaming of thy cheer. (For our enemies have burned it with fire, and have cut it down; but they shall die from the look of blame on thy face.) 
Thine hand be made on the man of thy right hand; and on the son of man, whom thou hast confirmed to thee. (Let thy hand rest upon the man at thy right hand; yea, upon the son of the man whom thou hast made strong for thy service.) 
And we departed not from thee; thou shalt quicken us, and we shall inwardly call thy name. (And we shall never leave thee; so grant thou us new life, and we shall call upon thy name.) 
Lord God of virtues, turn thou us (again); and show thy face, and we shall be safe. (Lord God of hosts, bring us back; and shine thy face upon us, and we shall be saved.) 
