MARK.
Chapter 10.
And Jesus rose up from thence, and came into the coasts of Judea over (the) Jordan (River), or And Jesus rising up from thence, came into the ends of Judea beyond (the) Jordan (River); and again the people came together to him, and as he was wont, again he taught them. 
And the Pharisees came nigh, and asked him, Whether it be leaveful to a man to leave or to forsake his wife? and they tempted him. (And the Pharisees came near, and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to leave his wife? and they tested him.) 
And he answered, and said to them, What commanded Moses to you? 
And they said, Moses suffered (us) to write a libel of forsaking, and to forsake. (And they said, Moses allowed us to write a bill of forsaking, or a notice of divorce, and then we be able to forsake, or to leave, a woman.) 
And Jesus answered, and said to them, For the hardness of your heart(s) Moses wrote to you this commandment or this precept. 
But from the beginning of creature(s), (or But from the beginning of Creation), God made them male and female; 
and said, For this thing a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall draw or shall cleave to his wife, 
and they shall be twain in one flesh. And so now they be not twain, but one flesh. 
Therefore that thing that God hath joined together, no man separate or part. 
And again in the house his disciples asked him of the same thing. (And in the house his disciples asked him about this same thing.) 
And he said to them, Whoever leaveth his wife, and weddeth another, he doeth adultery on her. 
And if the wife leave her husband, and be wedded to another, she doeth lechery or she doeth adultery. 
And they brought to him little children, (so) that he should touch them; and the disciples threatened the men, that brought them. 
And when Jesus had seen them, he bare (it) heavy, and said to them, Suffer ye (the) little children to come to me (or Allow the little children to come to me), and forbid ye them not, for of such is the kingdom of God. 
Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), whoever receiveth not the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter into it. 
And he embraced them, and laid his hands on them, and blessed them. 
And when Jesus was gone out into the way, a man ran before, and kneeled before him, and prayed him, and said, Good master, what shall I do, that I receive everlasting life? (or and said, Good Teacher, what should I do, so that I can get, or I can receive, eternal life?) 
And Jesus said to him, What sayest thou that I am good? (or Why sayest thou that I am good?) There is no man good, but God himself, or None is good, no but God alone. 
Thou knowest the commandments, do thou none adultery, slay not, steal not, say not false witnessing (or do not give false testimony), do no fraud, worship thy father and thy mother (or honour thy father and thy mother). 
And he answered, and said to him, Master, (or Teacher), I have kept all these things from my youth. 
And Jesus beheld him, and loved him, and said to him, One thing faileth to thee; go thou, and sell all (the) things that thou hast, and give (the proceeds) to poor men, and (then) thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come, (pur)sue thou me (or follow me). 
And he was full sorry in the word, or The which made sorrowful in the word, (or And he was greatly grieved by these words), and went away mourning, for he had many possessions. 
And Jesus beheld about, and said to his disciples, How hard they that have riches or money shall enter into the kingdom of God. 
And the disciples were astonied in his words (or And the disciples were astonished at his words). And Jesus again answered, and said to them, Ye little children or Little sons, how hard it is for men that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God. 
It is lighter (for) a camel to pass through a needle’s eye or It is easier that a camel pass through a needle’s eye, than (for) a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. 
And they wondered more, and said among themselves, And who may be saved? (or Then who can be saved?) 
And Jesus beheld them, and said, With men it is impossible, but not with God; for all things be possible with God. 
And Peter began to say to him, Lo! we have left all things, and have (pur)sued thee (or and have followed thee). 
Jesus answered, and said, Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), there is no man that leaveth house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or fields for me and for the gospel, 
which shall not take an hundredfold so much now in this time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and fields, with persecutions, and in the world to coming everlasting life or and in the world to come everlasting life. (who shall not now receive in this time a hundred times as much, yea, houses, and brothers, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and fields, with persecutions, and in the world to come eternal life.) 
But many shall be, the first the last, and the last the first. 
And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus went before them, and they wondered, and followed, and dreaded (or had fear). And again Jesus took the twelve (aside), and began to say to them, what things were to come to him. 
For lo! we ascend to Jerusalem, and man’s Son shall be betrayed to the princes of (the) priests, and to the scribes, and to the elder men; and they shall condemn him by death, and they shall be take him to heathen men. (For behold! we go up to Jerusalem, and man’s Son shall be betrayed to the high priests, and to the scribes, and to the elders; and they shall condemn him to death, and they shall deliver him to the heathens, or they shall hand him over to the Gentiles.) 
And they shall scorn him, and bespit him, and beat him; and they shall slay him, and in the third day he shall rise again (or and on the third day he shall rise again). 
And James and John, Zebedee’s sons, came to him, and said, Master, we will, that whatever we ask, thou do to us. (And James and John, Zebedee’s sons, came to him, and said, Teacher, we desire, or we want, that whatever we ask, thou do for us.) 
And he said to them, What will ye that I do to you? (And he said to them, What do ye desire, or want, that I do for you?) 
And they said, Grant to us, that we sit the one at thy right half, and the other at thy left half, in thy glory. (And they said, Grant unto us, that we sit the one at thy right hand, or on thy right side, and the other at thy left hand, or on thy left side, in thy glory.) 
And Jesus said to them, Ye know not what ye ask; may ye drink the cup, which I shall drink, (or can ye drink the cup, which I shall drink), or be washed with the baptism, in which I am baptized? 
And they said to him, We may (or We can). And Jesus said to them, Truly Ye shall drink the cup that I drink, and ye shall be washed with the baptism, in which I am baptized; 
but to sit at my right half or left half is not mine to give to you (or but to sit at my right hand or my left hand is not mine to give to you), (no) but to whom it is made ready. 
And the ten heard, and began to have indignation of James and John. (And the other ten heard, and began to feel indignant with James and John.) 
But Jesus called them, and said to them, Ye know, that they that seem or that be seen to have princehood of folks, be (the) lords of them, and the princes of them have power of them. (And Jesus called them, and said to them, Ye know, that they who be seen to have lordship over the nations and the peoples, be their lords, and so their leaders have power over them.) 
But it is not so among you, but whoever will be made the greater, shall be your minister (or shall be your servant); 
and whoever will be the first among you, shall be (the) servant of all. 
For why man’s Son came not, that it should be ministered to him, but that he should minister, and give his life again-buying or as a redemption for many. (For man’s Son came not, so that he would be served, but that he would serve, and give his life as a redemption for many.) 
And they came to Jericho; and when he went forth from Jericho, and his disciples, and a full much people (or a great many people), Bartimaeus, a blind man, the son of Timaeus, sat beside the way, and begged. 
And when he heard, that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry, and say, Jesus, the son of David, have mercy on me. 
And many threatened him, that he should be still; and he cried much the more or and he cried much more, saying, Jesus, the son of David, have mercy on me. 
And Jesus stood, and commanded him to be called; and they called the blind man, and said to him, Be thou of better heart, rise up, he calleth thee. 
And he cast away his cloth (or And he threw away his cloak), and skipped, and came to him. 
And Jesus answered, and said to him, What wilt thou, that I shall do to thee? The blind man said to him, Master, that I see. (And Jesus said to him, What desirest thou, that I shall do for thee? The blind man said to him, Teacher, that I see.) 
Jesus said to him, Go thou, thy faith hath made thee safe. And anon he saw, and (pur)sued him in the way. (Jesus said to him, Go, thy faith hath saved thee, or thy faith hath healed thee. And at once he saw, and followed him on the way.) 
