1ST KINGS.
Chapter 19.
Forsooth Ahab told to Jezebel all things that Elijah had done, and how he had slain with (the) sword all the prophets of Baal. 
And Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, and said, Gods do these things to me (or The gods do these things to me), and add these things too, no but tomorrow in this hour I shall put thy life as the life of one of them. 
Therefore Elijah dreaded, and rose (up), and went whither ever his will bare him; and he came into Beersheba of Judah, and he left there his servant (or and he left his servant there); 
and went into (the) desert, the way of one day. And when he came, and sat under one juniper tree, he asked to his soul, that he should die (or he prayed that he should die); and he said, Lord, it sufficeth to me, take my soul (now); for I am not (any) better than my fathers. 
And he casted forth himself (or And he threw himself down), and slept in the shadow of the juniper tree. And lo! the angel of the Lord touched him, and said to him, Rise thou (up), and eat. 
(And) He beheld, and, lo! at his head was a loaf baken under ashes, and a vessel of water. Therefore he ate, and drank, and slept again. 
And the angel of the Lord turned again the second time, and touched him; and he said to him, Rise thou, and eat; for a great way is to thee, (or Rise thou up, and eat, or the way shall be too much for thee). 
And when he had risen, he ate, and drank; and he went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights, unto Horeb, the hill of God. (And when he had risen, he ate, and drank; and he went in the strength of that food for forty days and forty nights, unto Mount Sinai, the mountain of God.) 
And when he had come thither, he dwelled in a den, (or And when he had come there, he lived in a cave); and lo! the word of the Lord was made to him, and said to him, Elijah, what doest thou here? 
And he answered, By fervent love, that is, of all the heart, I have loved fervently, for the Lord God of hosts; for the sons of Israel have forsaken the covenant of the Lord; they have destroyed thine altars, and killed with (the) sword thy prophets; and I am left alone, and they seek my life, that they do it away. (And he answered, With fervent love, that is, with all of my heart, I have fervently loved for the Lord God of hosts; but the Israelites have deserted the covenant of the Lord; they have destroyed thy altars, and killed thy prophets with the sword; and I alone am left, and now they seek my life, so that they can do me away.) 
And he said to Elijah, Go thou out, and stand in the hill, before the Lord. And lo! the Lord passeth, and a great wind, and strong, turning upside-down hills, and all-breaking stones before the Lord; not in the wind is the Lord. And after the wind is a stirring; not in the stirring is the Lord. (And he said to Elijah, Go thou out, and stand on the mount before the Lord. And behold! the Lord then passed by, and there was a great strong wind, that turned the mountains upside-down, and broke up the stones before the Lord; but the Lord was not in the wind. And after the wind there was a great shaking; but the Lord was not in that shaking.) 
And after the stirring is a fire; not in the fire is the Lord. And after the fire is an hissing of thin wind, or breathing softly; there is the Lord. (And after the stirring, or the shaking, there was a fire; but the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire there was a hissing of the wind, as if softly breathing; and there was the Lord or and the Lord was there.) 
And when Elijah had heard this, he covered his face with a mantle, and he went out, and stood in the door of the den (or and stood at the entrance to the cave). And a voice spake to him, and said, Elijah, what doest thou here? 
And he answered, With fervent love I have loved fervently, for the Lord God of hosts; for the sons of Israel have forsaken thy covenant; they have destroyed thine altars, and they have killed with (the) sword thy prophets; and I am left alone, and they seek my life, that they do it away. (And he answered, and said, With fervent love I have fervently loved for the Lord God of hosts; but the Israelites have deserted thy covenant; they have destroyed thy altars, and they have killed thy prophets with the sword; and I alone am left, and now they seek my life, so that they can do me away.) 
And the Lord said to him, Go, and turn again into thy way, by the desert, into Damascus, (or And the Lord said to him, Go, and return on the way, by the wilderness, to Damascus); and when thou shalt come thither, thou shalt anoint Hazael king upon Syria; 
and thou shalt anoint (unto) king upon Israel, Jehu, the son of Nimshi; and thou shalt anoint a prophet for thee, Elisha, the son of Shaphat, that is of Abelmeholah. (and thou shalt anoint Jehu, the son of Nimshi, to be king upon Israel; and thou shalt anoint Elisha, the son of Shaphat, of Abelmeholah, to be the prophet in thy place.) 
And it shall be, whoever shall flee the sword of Hazael, Jehu shall slay him; and whoever shall flee the sword of Jehu, Elisha shall slay him. 
And I shall leave to me in Israel seven thousand of men, of which the knees be not bowed before Baal, and each mouth that worshipped not him, and kissed not his hand. (But I shall leave for me seven thousand men in Israel, who have not bowed their knees before Baal, and whose mouths have not worshipped him, nor kissed his hand.) 
Therefore Elijah went forth from thence, and found Elisha, the son of Shaphat, earing in twelve yokes of oxen; and he was one in the twelve yokes of oxen, earing. And when Elijah had come to him, Elijah casted his mantle upon him. (And so Elijah went forth from there, and found Elisha, the son of Shaphat, plowing with twelve yokes of oxen; and he was plowing alongside the twelfth yoke of them. And when Elijah had come to him, he threw his mantle upon him.) 
And he ran anon after Elijah, when the oxen were left, and said, I pray thee, kiss I my father and my mother, and so I shall follow thee. And Elijah said to him, Go thou, and turn again, for I have done to thee that that was mine (to do). (And leaving the oxen behind, Elisha ran at once after Elijah, and said, I pray thee, let me kiss my father and my mother good-bye, and then I shall follow thee. And Elijah said to him, Go thou, and return, for I have done to thee what was mine to do.) 
Soothly he turned again from Elijah, and took twain oxen, and killed them; and with the plow of the oxen he seethed the flesh, and gave (the meat) to the people, and they ate; and he rose (or and then he rose up), and went, and followed Elijah, and ministered to him. 
