APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 12.
And a great sign appeared in heaven; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and in the head of her a crown of twelve stars. (And a great sight appeared in the heavens; a woman who was clothed with the sun, and the moon was under her feet, and on her head was a crown of twelve stars.) 
And she had (a) child in (her) womb, or And she having in womb, or being with child, and she cried, travailing of (the) child (or in labour with the child), and is tormented, that she bear (the) child. 
And another sign was seen in heaven; and lo! a great red dragon, that had seven heads, and ten horns, and in the heads of him seven diadems. (And another sight was seen in the heavens; and behold! a great red dragon, that had seven heads, and ten horns, and on his seven heads were seven crowns.) 
And the tail of him drew the third part of the stars of (the) heaven(s), and sent them into the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman, that was to bearing (her) child, that when she had born (her) child, he should devour her child, (or And the dragon stood before the woman, who was about to bring forth her child, so that when her child was born, he could eat her child). 
And she bare a man child, that was to ruling all folks in an iron rod; and her son was ravished to God, and to his throne. (And she gave birth to a boy child, who would rule all the nations and all the peoples with an iron rod; and her son was snatched up unto God, and to his throne.) 
And the woman flew into (the) wilderness, where she hath a place made ready of God (or where she hath a place prepared by God), (so) that he feed her there (for) a thousand days two hundred and sixty. 
And a great battle was made in heaven, and Michael and his angels fought with the dragon. And the dragon fought (back), and his angels (or And the dragon and his angels fought back); 
and they had not might more(than the others), neither the place of them was found (any) more in heaven. (but they did not have as much strength as Michael and the other angels, and so there was no longer any place in heaven for them.) 
And that dragon was cast down, the great old serpent, that is called the Devil, and Satan, that deceiveth all the world; he was cast down into the earth (or he was thrown down to the earth), and his angels were sent with him. 
And I heard a great voice in heaven, saying, Now is made health, and virtue, and (the) kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ; for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before the sight of our God day and night. (And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, Now there is made salvation or victory, and power, and the Kingdom of our God, and the power of his Messiah; for the accuser of our brothers is thrown down, who accused them before our God day and night, or who accused them in the presence of our God day and night.) 
And they overcame him for the blood of the lamb, and for the word of his witnessing, (or And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of his testimony); and they loved not their (own) lives or their (own) souls till to the death. 
Therefore, ye heavens, be ye glad, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the earth, and to the sea; for the fiend is come down to you, and hath great wrath, witting that he hath (just a) little time. (And so, ye heavens, be glad, and ye who dwell in them. Woe to the earth, and to the sea; for the Devil hath come down to you, and he hath great anger, knowing that he hath just a little time left.) 
And after that the dragon saw, that he was cast down into the earth, he pursued the woman, that bare the man child. (And after that the dragon saw, that he was thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman, or he persecuted the woman, who gave birth to the boy.) 
And two wings of a great eagle were given to the woman, (so) that she should fly or should flee into (the) desert, into her place, where she is fed by time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent. 
And the serpent sent out of his mouth after the woman water as a flood, that he should make her to be drawn (away) of the flood. (And the serpent sent a flood of water out of his mouth after the woman, so that he could carry her away with the flood.) 
And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened his mouth, and sopped up the flood (or and swallowed up the flood), that the dragon sent out of his mouth. 
And the dragon was wroth against the woman, and he went to make battle with others of her seed, that keep the commandments of God, and have the witnessing of Jesus Christ. (And the dragon raged against the woman, and he went to make battle with others of her seed, who obey God’s commandments, and hold faithful to the testimony of Jesus Christ.) 
And he stood on the gravel of the sea. (And he stood on the sand of the sea or on the seashore.) 
