HEBREWS.
Chapter 13.
The charity of (the) brotherhood dwell in you, (Keep the love for the brotherhood dwelling in you,) 
and do not ye forget hospitality; for by this some men pleased to angels, that were received to harbour. 
Think ye on bound men, as (if) ye were together bound (with them), and of travailing men, as yourselves dwelling in the body. (Remember those in prison, as if ye were in prison together with them, and those who be struggling, like ye yourselves who remain in the body.) 
Wedding is in all things honourable, and (the) bed unwemmed, or undefouled, (or undefiled); for God shall deem fornicators and adulterers (or for God shall judge fornicators and adulterers). 
Be your manners without covetousness, satisfied with present things; for he said, I shall not leave thee, neither forsake (thee), 
so that we say trustily, The Lord is an helper to me; I shall not dread what a man shall do to me (or I shall not fear what anyone shall do to me). 
Have ye mind of your sovereigns or your provosts, that have spoken to you the word of God; of whom behold ye the going out of living, and (pur)sue ye the faith of them, (Remember your leaders, who have spoken the word of God unto you; think about their living and their dying, and follow the example of their faith,) 
Jesus Christ, yesterday, and today, he is also into worlds. (Jesus Christ, he is yesterday, and today, and forevermore.) 
Do not ye be led away with diverse and strange teachings. For it is best to stable the heart with grace, not with meats (or not with food), which profited not to men wandering or going in them. 
We have an altar, of which they that serve to the tabernacle, have not (the) power or (the) leave to eat. (We have an altar, from which those who serve in the Tabernacle, or the Tent, do not have the right to eat off of.) 
For of which beasts the blood is borne in for sin into (the) holy things by the bishop, the bodies of them be burnt without the castles. (For of which beasts the blood for sin is carried into the Holy of Holies by the high priest, and their bodies be burned up outside the camp.) 
For which thing Jesus, that he should hallow the people by his blood, suffered without the gate. (For which thing Jesus, so that he could consecrate, or he could sanctify, the people with his own blood, suffered outside the gate.) 
Therefore go we out to him without the castles, bearing his reproof. (And so let us go out to him outside the camp, carrying the same rebuke or sharing the same reproach.) 
For we have not here a city dwelling, but we seek a city to coming. +Soothly we have not here a dwelling city, but we seek a city to come. 
Therefore by him offer we a sacrifice of praising (for)evermore to God, that is to say, the fruit of (our) lips acknowledging to his name. 
And do not ye forget well-doing, and communing; for by such sacrifices God is well-served, (or is pleased, or is well-satisfied). 
Obey ye to your sovereigns, or to your provosts, or prelates, and be ye subject to them; for they perfectly wake (or for they diligently watch), as to yielding reason for your souls, (so) that they do this thing with joy, and not sorrowing; for this thing speedeth not to you (or for that would not be expedient for you). 
Pray ye for us, and we trust that we have good conscience in all things, willing to live well (or desiring always to do the right thing). 
Moreover I beseech you to do this thing, (so) that I be restored the sooner to you. 
And God of peace, that led out from death the great shepherd of (the) sheep, in the blood of the everlasting testament (or by the blood of the eternal covenant), our Lord Jesus Christ, 
shape you in all good thing(s), +or make you able in each good work, (so) that ye do the will of him; and he do in you that thing that shall please before him, by Jesus Christ, to whom be glory into worlds of worlds (or to whom be glory forever and ever). Amen. 
And, brethren, I pray you, that ye suffer a word of solace; for by full few things I have written to you. 
Know ye our brother Timothy, that is sent forth, with whom if he shall come more hastily, I shall see you. (Know that our brother Timothy hath been set free, or is now at liberty, and if he shall come in time, he shall be with me when I shall see you.) 
Greet ye well all your sovereigns, and all (the) holy men, or Greet well all your provosts, and all (the) saints. The brethren of Italy greet you well. (Give a hearty greeting to all of your leaders, and to all of the saints, or to all of God’s people. The brothers in Italy send you hearty greetings.) 
The grace of God be with you all. Amen. 
