ROMANS.
Chapter 16.
And I commend to you Phebe, our sister, which is in the service of the church that is at Cenchrea, (And I commend to you our sister Phoebe, who is in the service of the church that is at Cenchrea,) 
that ye receive her in the Lord worthily to (the) saints, and that ye help her in whatever cause she shall need of you (or and that ye help her with whatever she shall need from you). For she hath helped many men, and myself. 
Greet Priscilla and Aquila, mine helpers in Christ Jesus, (Greetings to Priscilla and Aquila, my helpers in the Messiah Jesus,) 
which under-putted their necks for my life; to whom not I alone do thankings, but also all the churches of (the) heathen men. (who risked their necks for me; for whom not I alone give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.) 
And greet ye well their household church or their home-church. Greet well Epaenetus, (be)loved to me, that is the first of Asia in Christ, Jesus (or Hearty greetings to Epaenetus, beloved to me, who is the first Asian convert to the Messiah Jesus). 
Greet well Mary, the which hath travailed much in us. (Hearty greetings to Mary, who hath laboured much with us, or for us.) 
Greet well Andronicus and Junia, my cousins, and mine even-prisoners, which be noble among the apostles, and which were before me in Christ. (Hearty greetings to Andronicus and Junia, my cousins, and my fellow prisoners, who be of note among the apostles, and who were in the Messiah before me.) 
Greet well Amplias (or Hearty greetings to Amplias), most dearworthy to me in the Lord. 
Greet well Urbane, our helper in Christ Jesus, and Stachys, my darling or my (be)loved. (Hearty greetings to Urbane, our helper in the Messiah Jesus, and Stachys, my beloved.) 
Greet well Apelles, the noble in Christ or noble in Christ. Greet well them that be of Aristobulus’ house. 
Greet well Herodion, my cousin. Greet well them that be of Narcissus’ house, that be in the Lord. 
Greet well Tryphena and Tryphosa, which women travail in the Lord. Greet well Persis, most dearworthy woman, that hath travailed much in the Lord. 
Greet well Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother, and mine. 
Greet well Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and brethren that be with them (or and the brothers who be with them). 
Greet well Philologus, and Julia, and Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints that be with them (or and all of God’s people who be with them). 
Greet ye well together in holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you well. (Give hearty greetings to one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of the Messiah send you hearty greetings.) 
But, brethren, I pray you, that ye espy them that make dissensions and hurtings or offences, besides the doctrine that ye have learned, and bow away from them. 
For such men serve not to the Lord Christ, but to their womb, (or For such men do not serve the Lord Messiah, but their own bellies), and by sweet words and blessings deceive the hearts of innocent men. 
But your obedience is published into every place, therefore I have joy in you. But I will (or I desire), that ye be wise in good thing(s), and simple in evil (things). 
And (may the) God of peace tread Satan under your feet swiftly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
Timothy, mine helper, greeteth you well (or sendeth hearty greetings), and also Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my cousins. 
I Tertius greet you well, that wrote this epistle, in the Lord. (I Tertius, who wrote this letter, send you hearty greetings, in the Lord.) 
Gaius, mine host, greeteth you well, and all the church. Erastus, (the) treasurer, or (the) keeper, of the city, greeteth you well, and Quartus the brother. (My host Gaius, sendeth you hearty greetings, and all the church. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, sendeth you hearty greetings, and also our brother Quartus.) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
And honour and glory be to him, that is mighty to confirm you by my gospel, and (the) preaching of Jesus Christ, by the revelation of (the) mystery held still, in times everlasting; Forsooth to him, that is mighty to confirm you by my gospel, and (the) preaching of Jesus Christ, after the revelation of (the) mystery holden still, that is, not showed, in times everlasting; 
which mystery is now made open by (the) scriptures of (the) prophets, by the commandment of God without beginning and ending, to the obedience of faith in all heathen men (or to bring all the Gentiles to faith and obedience), 
the mystery known by Jesus Christ to God alone wise or the mystery known to God alone wise by Jesus Christ, to whom be honour and glory into worlds of worlds. Amen. (to God who alone is wise, through Jesus Christ, to whom be honour and glory forever and ever. Amen.) 
