MATTHEW.
Chapter 18.
In that hour the disciples came to Jesus, and said, Who, guessest thou, is the greater in the kingdom of heavens? (At that time the disciples came to Jesus, and asked, Who, thinkest thou, is the greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven?) 
And Jesus called (for) a little child, and put him in the middle or in the midst of them; 
and said, I say truth to you or Truly I say to you, no but ye be turned, and be made as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heavens. (and said, I tell you the truth, unless ye be changed, and be made like little children, ye shall not enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.) 
Therefore whoever meeketh himself as this little child, he is (the) greater in the kingdom of heavens. (And so whoever humbleth himself, like this little child, he is the greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven.) 
And he that receiveth one such little child in my name, receiveth me. 
But whoso causeth to stumble one of these small (ones), or these little (ones), that believe in me, it speedeth to him, that a millstone of asses be hanged in his neck, and he be drenched in the deepness of the sea. (But whosoever causeth to stumble one of these little ones, who believe in me, it is more expedient for him, that a donkey’s millstone be hung about his neck, and he be drowned in the depth of the sea.) 
Woe to the world, for causes of stumbling; for it is need(ful), (or it is necessary), that causes of stumbling come; nevertheless woe to that man by whom a cause of stumbling cometh. 
And if thine hand or thy foot cause thee to stumble, cut it off, and cast it away from thee. It is better to thee to enter in to life feeble, either crooked, (or It is better for thee to enter into (eternal) life maimed, or lame), than having twain hands or two feet to be sent into (the) everlasting fire. 
And if thine eye cause thee to stumble, pull it out, and cast it away from thee. It is better to thee, with one eye to enter into life, (or It is better for thee to enter into (eternal) life with one eye), than having twain eyes to be sent into the fire of hell or into hellfire. 
See ye, that ye despise not one of these little (ones). For I say to you or Truly I say to you, that the angels of them in heavens see (for)evermore the face of my Father that is in heavens, (or For I tell you the truth, that their guardian angels in heaven always see the face of my Father who is in heaven). 
For man’s Son came to save that thing that perished. 
What seemeth to you? If there were to a man an hundred sheep, and one of them hath erred, whether he shall not leave (the) ninety and nine in (the) desert or in the hills, and shall go to seek that that erred? (What seemeth to you? If a man hath a hundred sheep, and one of them hath wandered off, shall he not leave the ninety-nine on the hills, and go to seek the one which hath wandered off?) 
And if it fall that he find it, truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), that he shall have joy thereof, or for he shall joy thereon, more than on (the) ninety and nine that erred not. 
So it is not the will of your Father that is in heavens or that is in heaven, that one of these little (ones) perish. 
But if thy brother sinneth against thee, go thou, and reprove him, betwixt thee and him alone, (or And if thy brother sinneth against thee, go, and rebuke him, between thee and him alone); if he heareth thee, thou hast won thy brother. 
And if he heareth thee not, take with thee one or twain, (so) that every word stand in the mouth of twain or three witnesses. 
And if he heareth not them, say thou to the church. But if he heareth not the church, be he as an heathen and (as) a publican to thee, or be he to thee as an heathen man and a publican, (or be he like a Gentile and a tax collector to thee). 
I say to you truly, (or Truly I say to you, or I tell you the truth), whatever things ye bind on earth, those shall be bound also in heaven; and whatever things ye unbind on earth, those shall be unbound also in heaven. 
Again I say to you, that if twain of you consent on earth, of everything whatever they ask, it shall be done to them of my Father that is in heavens. (Again I tell you, that if two of you consent, or agree, on the earth, about anything, whatever they ask, it shall be done for them by my Father who is in heaven.) 
For where twain or three be gathered in my name, there I am in the middle of them. For where two or three be gathered in my name, there I am in the midst of them. 
Then Peter came to him, and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I shall forgive him? Whether till seven times? 
Jesus saith to him, I say not to thee, till seven times; but till seventy times seven times. 
Therefore the kingdom of heavens is likened to a king, that would reckon with his servants. 
And when he began to reckon, one that owed to him ten thousand talents, was brought to him. +And when he began to put reason, one was brought to him, that owed to him ten thousand bezants, or talents. 
And when he had not whereof to yield, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife, and children, and all things that he had, and (so) to be paid. 
But that servant felled down, and prayed him, and said, Have patience in me (or Have patience with me), and I shall yield to thee all things. 
And the lord had mercy on that servant, and suffered him to go, (or and allowed him to go), or (and) delivered him, (or let him go), and forgave him the debt. 
But that servant went out, and found one of his even-servants, that owed him an hundred pence, (or But that servant went out, and found one of his fellow servants, who owed him a hundred pennies); and he held him, and strangled him, and said, Yield that that thou owest. 
And his even-servant fell down, and prayed him, and said, Have patience in me, and I shall requite all things to thee. (And his fellow servant fell down at his feet, and beseeched him, and said, Have patience with me, and I shall repay everything to thee.) 
But he would not; but went out, and put him or sent him into prison, till he paid all the debt. 
And his even-servants, seeing the things that were done, sorrowed greatly, (or And his fellow servants, seeing what was done, greatly sorrowed). And they came, and told to their lord all the things that were done. 
Then his lord called him, and said to him, Wicked servant, I forgave to thee all the debt, for thou prayedest me. 
Therefore whether it behooved not also thee to have mercy on thine even-servant, as I had mercy on thee? (And so did it not also behoove thee to have mercy on thy fellow servant, like I had mercy on thee?) 
And his lord was wroth, and took him to tormentors, till he paid all the debt. 
So my Father of heaven shall do to you, if ye forgive not every man to his brother, of your hearts. (So shall my Father in heaven do to you, if any of you do not forgive his brother, from your heart.) 
