1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 24.
Forsooth to the sons of Aaron these portions shall be; the sons of Aaron were Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar; (And these shall be the divisions of the sons of Aaron; Aaron’s sonswere Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar;) 
but Nadab and Abihu were dead without free children before their father, and Eleazar and Ithamar were set in priesthood. (and Nadab and Abihu died before their father did, and had no children, and so Eleazar and Ithamar became priests, that is, the High Priests.) 
And David parted them, that is, (with the help of) Zadok, of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech, of the sons of Ithamar, by their whiles, and their service; (And David, with the help of Zadok, of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech, of the sons of Ithamar, divided them for their duties, and their service;) 
and the sons of Eleazar were found many more in the men princes, than the sons of Ithamar. And David parted to them, that is, to the sons of Eleazar, sixteen princes by their families (and houses); and to the sons of Ithamar eight princes by their families and houses. (and there were found many more leaders of the sons of Eleazar, than of the sons of Ithamar. And David ordained to them, that is, to the sons of Eleazar, sixteen leaders by their families and houses; and to the sons of Ithamar eight leaders by their families and houses.) 
And he parted ever either families among themselves by lots; for there were princes of the saintuary, and princes of the house of God, as well of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar. (And he divided both families among themselves by lots; for there were officers of the sanctuary, and officers of the House of God, from the sons of Eleazar, and from the sons of Ithamar.) 
And Shemaiah, the son of Nethaneel, a scribe of the lineage of Levi, described them before the king and the princes, and before Zadok, the priest, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, and to the princes of the families of the priests and of the deacons; he described one house of Eleazar, that was sovereign to the others, and the tother house of Ithamar, that had the other priests and deacons under him. (And Shemaiah, the son of Nethaneel, a writer, or a secretary, of the Levite tribe, listed them before the king, and the officers, and Zadok, the priest, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, and the leaders of the families of the priests and the Levites; he listed one household, or family, of Eleazar, that was the leader of the others, and another household, or family, of Ithamar, that had the other priests and Levites under him.) 
Forsooth the first lot went out to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah, 
the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, 
the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 
the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abiah (or the eighth to Abijah), 
the ninth to Jeshuah, the tenth to Shecaniah, 
the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 
the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 
the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, 
the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Aphses, 
the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezekel, 
the one and twentieth to Jachin, the two and twentieth to Gamul, 
the three and twentieth to Delaiah, and the four and twentieth to Maaziah. 
These were the whiles, or times, of them by their services, that they enter into the house of God, and by their custom under the hand of Aaron, their father, as the Lord God of Israel commanded. 
Forsooth Shubael was prince of the sons of Levi that were residue/that were left, of the sons of Amram; and the son of Shubael was Jehdeiah; (And of the Levites who were left; of the sons of Amram, Shubael was the leader; and the son of Shubael was Jehdeiah;) 
also Isshiah was prince of the sons of Rehabiah. (and Isshiah was the leader of the sons of Rehabiah.) 
And Shelomoth was prince of Izharites; and the son of Shelomoth was Jahath; (And Shelomoth (was the leader) of the Izharites; and Shelomoth’s son (was) Jahath;) 
and (the sons of Hebron); his first son was Jeriah, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth. 
The son of Uzziel was Michah; the son of Michah was Shamir; 
the brother of Michah was Isshiah; and the son of Isshiah was Zechariah. 
The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi; the son of Jaaziah was Beno; (The sons of Merari were Mahli, and Mushi, and Jaaziah his son;) 
and the son of Merari was Jaaziah, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri. (and the sons of Merari, of Jaaziah, were Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri.) 
And the son of Mahli was Eleazar, which had not free sons; (And the son of Mahli was Eleazar, who had no sons;) 
and the son of Kish was Jerahmeel; 
the sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of Levi, by the houses of their families. 
Also and they sent lots (over) against their brethren, the sons of Aaron, before David the king, and before Zadok, and Ahimelech, and before the princes of the families of the priests, and of deacons; the lot parted evenly all things, both the greater and the less. (And they cast lots side by side with their kinsmen, the sons of Aaron, before King David, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the leaders of the families of the priests, and of the Levites; and the lot evenly divided all, both the greater and the lesser alike.) 
