ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 29.
He that doeth mercy, lendeth to his neighbour; and he that is full mighty in hand, keepeth the commandments. 
Lend thou to thy neighbour in the time of his need; and again yield thou to a neighbour in his time. 
Confirm thou a word, and do thou faithfully with him; and in all time thou shalt find that, that is needful to thee. 
Many men guessed borrowing as finding, and gave dis-ease or grief to those men that helped them. 
Till they take (or receive), they kiss the hands of the giver; and in promises they make meek their voice. And in (or at) the time of yielding, he shall ask (for more) time, or delay-ing, and he shall speak words of annoy(ance), (or of hurt), and of grutchings (or grumblings), and he shall challenge falsely, or plead (for), or complain (about) the time, to tarry the paying of (the) debt. 
Forsooth if he may yield, he shall be adversary or enemy; of a shilling scarcely he shall yield the half or scarcely of the whole he shall yield the half, and he shall reckon that as (re)funding. Else he shall defraud him in (or of) his money, and the lender shall have him (as) an enemy without cause. And he shall yield to him, that is, to the lender, wrongs and cursings; and for honour and benefice, he shall yield to him despising. 
Many men lend not, not for cause of wickedness, but they dreaded to be defrauded without cause or will-fully. 
Nevertheless on (or for) a meek man in soul, that is, a full poor debtor, be thou stronger; and for alms-deed(s) draw thou not him (along). 
For the commandment of God take (or receive) thou a poor man; and for his neediness leave thou not him void (or do not let him go away empty-handed). 
Lose thou money for a brother and friend, and hide thou not it under a stone, into perdition. 
Put thy treasure in the command-ments of the Highest; and it shall profit to thee more than gold. 
(En)close thou alms in the bosom of a poor man; and this alms shall pray for thee to be delivered of (or by) God from all evil. The alms of a man is as a bag or a little sack with him; and it shall keep the grace of a man, that is, God’s grace, given to man, as the apple of the eye. And afterward it shall rise again, and shall yield to them a yielding, to each man into (or onto) the head of them. 
Above or Over (or Better than) the shield of a mighty man, and above or over (or better than) a spear it shall fight against thine enemy. 
A good man maketh faith to (or for) his neighbour in becoming (a) borrow (er), (or a guarantor), for him in need; and he that loseth, shall leave shame to him. 
Forget thou not the grace of the borrower (or of the guarantor); for he gave his life for thee. 
A sinful man or The sinner and unclean fleeth the promiser. A sinner areckoneth to himself the good words of the borrower (or of the guarantor); 
and the unkind man in wit forsaketh a man delivering him. 
A man promiseth for his neighbour; and when he hath lost reverence, that is, shamefastness before God and man, the borrower shall be forsaken of (or by) him. Worst or Most shrewd (or depraved) promise, by which the neighbour promised falsely to deliver his borrow, hath lost or spoiled many loving men, and hath moved them as the waves of the sea. It going in compass made mighty men to pass over or to go out (or to go away); and (then) they wandered about among alien folks. 
A sinner breaking or overpass-ing the commandment of the Lord shall fall into a wicked promise; and he that endeavoureth to do many things, shall fall into doom. 
Recover thy neighbour by thy virtue (or according to thy power); and take heed to thyself, lest thou fall (in the same manner). 
The beginning of (the) life of a man is water, and bread, and clothing, and (a) house covering filth-hood(or nakedness). 
Better is the lifelode (or the liveli-hood) of a poor man under the cover-ing of spars, than plenteous shining feasts in pilgrimage without (a) house, 
The least thing pleaseth thee for a great thing, and thou shalt not hear the shame or reproof of pilgrimage. 
It is(a) wicked life to seek harbour from house into house; and where he shall be harboured, he shall not do trustily, neither he shall open the mouth. 
He shall be harboured, and he shall feed, and give drink to unkind men; and yet he shall hear bitter things. 
Pass, thou that art harboured, or Go, guest, and array a table; and give thou meats to other men, (of) those things that thou hast in the hand. 
Go thou out from the face of the honour of my friends, for the friend-ship, either affinity, of mine house or for (the) need of mine house; by harbouring thou art made a brother to me. 
These things be grievous to a man having wit; the reproving of house, and the despising of the usurer or the lender. 
