MATTHEW.
Chapter 8.
But when Jesus was come down from the hill, much people (pur)sued him or many companies followed him. 
And lo! a leprous man came, and worshipped him, and said, Lord, if thou wilt, thou mayest make me clean. (And behold! a leprous man came, and honoured him, and said, Lord, if thou desirest it, or if thou wantest to do it, thou can make me clean.) 
And Jesus held forth the hand, and touched him, and said, I will, be thou made clean. And anon the leprosy of him was cleansed. (And Jesus held forth his hand, and touched him, and said, I will, be thou made clean. And at once he was cleansed of the leprosy.) 
And Jesus said to him, See, say thou to no man; but go, show thee to the priests, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, in witnessing to them (or as a testimony to them). 
And when he had entered into Capernaum, the centurion nighed to him, and prayed him, (And when he entered into Capernaum, a centurion came up to him, and beseeched him,) 
and said, Lord, my child lieth in the house sick on the palsy or sick in the palsy, and is evil tormented. (and said, Lord, my servant lieth in the house sick with palsy, and is greatly tormented.) 
And Jesus said to him, I shall come, and shall heal him. 
And the centurion answered, and said to him, Lord, I am not worthy, that thou enter under my roof; but only say thou by (a) word, and my child shall be healed, (or but only say the word, and my servant shall be healed). 
For why I am a man ordained under power, and have knights under me (or and have soldiers under me); and I say to this (one), Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it. 
And Jesus heard these things, and wondered, and said to (the) men that (pur)sued him, Truly I say to you, I found not so great faith in Israel. (And Jesus heard these things, and wondered, and said to the people who followed him, I tell you the truth, I have not found such great faith in all of Israel.) 
And I say to you, that many shall come from the east and the west, and shall rest with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heavens; 
but the sons of the realm shall be cast out into outer-more or uttermost darknesses; there shall be weeping, and grinding of teeth. 
And Jesus said to the centurion, Go, and as thou hast believed, be it done to thee. And the child was healed from that hour, (or And the servant was healed from that hour, or at that moment). 
And when Jesus was come into the house of Simon Peter, he saw his wife’s mother lying (down), and shaken or shaking with fevers. 
And he touched her hand, and the fever left her; and she rose, and served them. 
And when it was even(ing), they brought to him many that had devils, and he casted out (the) spirits by (a) word, and healed all that were evil-at-ease or having sickness; 
that it were fulfilled, that was said by Esaias, the prophet, saying, (or so that it was fulfilled, what was said by the prophet Isaiah, saying), He took our infirmities, and bare our sicknesses. 
And Jesus saw much people about him, and bade or commandedhis disciplesto go over the water. 
And a scribe nighed, and said to him, Master, I shall (pur)sue thee, whither ever thou shalt go. (And a scribe approached, and said to him, Teacher, I shall follow thee, wherever thou shalt go.) 
And Jesus said to him, Foxes have dens or burrows, and birds of the air have nests, but man’s Son hath not wherein to rest his head or but man’s Son hath not where he shall rest his head. 
Another of his disciples said to him, Lord, suffer me to go first, and bury my father, (or Lord, first allow me to go, and bury my father). 
But Jesus said to him, (Pur)Sue thou me, and let the dead men bury their dead men, (or Follow me, and let the dead bury their dead). 
And when he was gone up into a little ship, his disciples (pur)sued him (or his disciples followed him). 
And lo! a great stirring was made in the sea, so that the ship was covered with waves; but he slept. 
And his disciples came to him, and raised him, and said, Lord, save us; (for) we perish. 
And Jesus said to them, What be ye of little faith aghast or afeared? (or Why be so afraid, ye of little faith?) Then he rose up, and commanded to the winds and the sea, and a great peaceableness was made. 
And (the) men wondered, and said, What manner man is this, for the winds and the sea obey to him? 
And when he was come over the water into the country of (the) men of Gergesenes, two men met him, that had devils (or who had demons), and came out of (the) graves (or from the tombs), full mad, or going out from (the) burials, full fierce, or wicked, so that no man might go by that way. 
And lo! they cried, and said, What to us and to thee, Jesus, the Son of God? art thou come hither before the time to torment us? 
And not far from them was a flock of many swine or a drove of many hogs pasturing. (And not far from them was a herd of many pigs at pasture.) 
And the devils prayed him, and said, If thou castest out us from hence, send us into the drove of swine or into the drove of hogs. (And the demons beseeched him, and said, If thou throwest us out of here, then send us into that herd of pigs.) 
And he said to them, Go ye. And they went out, and went into the swine or into the hogs; and lo! in a great rush all the drove went headlong into the sea, and they were dead in the waters. (And he said to them, Go! And they went out, and went into the pigs; and behold! in a great rush the whole herd went headlong into the lake, and they were dead in the water.) 
And the herders fled away, and came into the city, and told all these things, and of them that had the fiends, or the devils, (or and about them who had the demons). 
And lo! all the city went out to meet Jesus; and when they had seen him, they prayed him, that he would pass from their coasts, (or they beseeched him, that he would go away from their coasts). 
