BARUCH.
Chapter 1.
And these be the words of the book, which Baruch, the son of Neriah, son of Mahseiah, son of Zedekiah, son of Hasadiah, son of Hilkiah, wrote in Babylon; 
in the fifth year, in the seventh day of the month, in the time wherein (the) Chaldeans took Jerusalem, and burnt it with fire. 
And Baruch read the words of this book to the ears of Jeconiah, son of Jehoiakim (or son of Joachim), king of Judah, and to the ears of all the people coming to (hear) the book; 
and to the ears of the mighty men, (and of the) sons of (the) kings, and to the ears of (the) priests, and to the ears of the people, from the most unto the least of them, of all (those) dwelling in Babylon, and at the flood Sud (or by the Sud River). 
Which heard, and wept, and fasted, and prayed in the sight of the Lord. 
And they gathered money, by or after that that each man’s hand might; 
and they sent (it) into Jerusalem to Jehoiakim, the (high) priest, the son of Hilkiah, son of Shallum, and to the priests, and to all the people that were found with him in Jerusalem; 
when he took (or when he received) the vessels of the temple of the Lord, that were taken away from the temple, to again-call (them) into the land of Judah, in the tenth day of the month Sivan, or May; the silvern or the silver vessels, which Zedekiah, the king of Judah, the son of Josiah, (had) made, 
after that Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, had taken (away) Jeconiah, and (the) princes, and all (the) mighty men, and the people of the land from Jerusalem, and led them bound into Babylon. 
And they said, Lo! we have sent to you riches or monies, of (or with) which buy ye burnt sacrifices, and incense, and make ye sacrifice, and offer ye for sin at the altar of your Lord God. 
And pray ye for the life of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and for the life of Belshazzar, his son, that the days of them be on (the) earth as the days of heaven; 
that the Lord give virtue (or strength) to us, and (en)lighten our eyes, that we live under the shadow of Nebuchad-nezzar, king of Babylon, and under the shadow of Belshazzar, his son; and that we serve them by many days, and find grace in the sight of them. 
And pray ye for us to our Lord God, for we have sinned to our Lord God, and his strong vengeance is not turned away from us, till into this day. 
And read ye this book, which we have sent to you, to be rehearsed (or to be read aloud) in the temple of the Lord, in a solemn day, and in a covenable day, (or on solemn days, and on other suitable days). 
And ye shall say, Rightfulness or rightwisenessis to our Lord God, but shame of our face is to us, as this day (it) is, to all Judah, and to (the) dwellers in Jerusalem, 
to our kings, and to our princes, to our priests, and to our prophets, and to our fathers. 
We sinned before our Lord God, 
and believed not, and trusted not in him. And we were not ready to be subject to him, and we obeyed not to the voice of our Lord God, (so) that we went in his commandments, which he gave to us; 
from the day in which he led our fathers out of the land of Egypt, till into this day, we were unbelieveful to our Lord God; and we were scattered, and went away, (so) that we heard not the voice of him. 
And many evils and cursings, which the Lord ordained to his servant Moses, cleaved to us; which Lord led our fathers out of the land of Egypt, to give to us a land flowing (with) milk and honey, as (it is) in this day. 
And we heard not the voice of our Lord God, by or after all the words of (the) prophets, which he sent to us, and to our judges; 
and we went away, each man into the wit (or the understanding) of his evil heart, to work to alien gods (or to serve foreign gods), and we did evils before the eyes of our Lord God. 
