PSALMS.
Chapter 45.
To the overcomer, for the lilies, the most loved song of learning of the sons of Korah. Mine heart hath told out a good word; I say my works to the king. My tongue is the pen of a writer; writing swiftly. (For the choirmaster, to the tune of ‘The lilies’, a most loved song of a teaching by the Korahites. My heart hath told out a good word; I tell of my works to the king. My tongue is like the pen of a writer, yea, writing swiftly.) 
Christ, thou art fairer in shape than the sons of men; grace is spread abroad in thy lips; therefore God blessed thee into without end. (Thou anointed king, thou art more comely in appearance than any other man; grace is spread abroad by thy lips or thy lips speak most eloquently; yea, God hath blessed thee forever.) 
Be thou gird with thy sword; on thy hip most mightily. Behold thou in thy shapeliness and thy fairness; (Be thou gird with thy sword on thy hip, most mighty man. In thy glory, and in thy majesty,) 
come thou forth with prosperity, and reign thou. For truth, and mildness, and rightfulness; and thy right hand shall lead forth thee wonderfully. (come thou forth with prosperity; and reign thou in truth, and humility, and righteousness. And thy right hand, or thy strength, shall lead thee forth to great victories.) 
Thy sharp arrows shall fall into the hearts of the enemies of the king; peoples shall be under thee. (Thy arrows shall be sharp in the hearts of the enemies of the king; and nations shall fall down under thee.) 
God, thy seat is into the world of world; the rod of thy realm is a rod of right ruling, or of equity. (Like God, thy throne shall last forever; and the sceptre of thy kingdom is a sceptre of justice, yea, of equity and fairness.) 
Thou lovedest rightfulness, and hatedest wickedness; therefore thou, God, thy God, (or and so God, thy God), anointed thee with the oil of gladness, more than thy fellows. 
Myrrh, and gum, and cassia, of thy clothes, (out) of the ivory houses/(out) of the house of ivory; of which the daughters of kings delighted thee. (Myrrh, and gum, and cassia be the perfumes of thy clothes; and the sound of music coming forth from the ivory palace delighteth thee.) 
A queen stood nigh on thy right side, in clothing overgilded; compassed with diversity. (The daughters of kings be there among thy honourable women; the queen standeth nigh on thy right side, in clothing overgilded with the gold of Ophir.) 
Daughter, hear thou, and see, and bow down thine ear; and forget thy (own) people, and the house of thy father. 
And the king shall covet thy fairness; for he is thy Lord God, and they shall worship him. (And when the king shall desire thy beauty; for he is thy lord, thou shalt give him honour, that is, thou shalt obey him.) 
And the daughters of Tyre in gifts; all the rich men of the people shall beseech thy cheer. (And the daughters of Tyre shall be there with gifts; all the rich men of the nations shall seek thy favour.) 
All the glory of that daughter of the king is within, (she is adorned) in golden hems; (The daughter of the king is inside the palace, and how glorious she is, adorned in golden hems;) 
she is clothed about with diversities. Virgins shall be brought to the king after her; her neighbouresses shall be brought to thee. (she is clothed with much diversity. Her virgins shall be brought to the king after her; yea, her friends shall be brought to thee.) 
They shall be brought in gladness, and full out joying; they shall be brought into the temple of the king. (They shall be brought in gladness, and rejoicing; they shall be brought into the king’s palace.) 
Sons be born to thee, for thy fathers; thou shalt ordain them princes on all earth. (Sons shall be born to thee, in place of thy forefathers; thou shalt ordain them to be the rulers over all the earth.) 
Lord, they shall be mindful of thy name; in each generation, and into generation. Therefore peoples shall acknowledge to thee into without end; and into the world of world. (Lord, they shall remember thy name; in all generations. And so the nations shall praise thee; forever and ever.) 
