2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 9.
For of the ministry that is made to holy men, it is to me of plenty to write to you. (And as for the service, or the aid, that is sent to the saints, or to God’s people, it is unnecessary for me to write to you.) 
For I know your ready will, for the which I have glory of you with (the) Macedonians, for also Achaia is ready from a year passed, and your love hath stirred full many. 
And we have sent brethren, that this thing that we glory of you, be not voided in this part, that as I said, ye be ready. (And we have sent these brothers, so that our boasting about you in this matter, be not empty words, but as I said, so that ye be prepared.) 
Lest when (the) Macedonians come with me, and find you unready, we be shamed, that we say you not or that we saw you not, in this substance. 
Therefore I guessed (it) necessary to pray (the) brethren, that they come before to you, and make ready this promised blessing to be ready, so as blessing, and not as avarice, (or as a blessing, or as a gift, and not as an example of greed). 
For I say this thing, he that soweth scarcely, shall also reap scarcely; and he that soweth in blessings, shall reap also of blessings. 
Each man as he casted in his heart, not of heaviness, or of need; for God loveth a glad(ful) giver. 
And God is mighty to make all grace abound in you, that ye in all things (for)evermore have all sufficience, and abound into all good work; (And God is powerful enough to give all necessary gifts in abundance to you, so that ye always have all sufficiency in everything, and can abound in all good works;) 
as it is written, He dealed abroad, he gave to poor men, his rightwiseness dwelleth into without end (or his righteousness remaineth forever and ever). 
And he that ministereth seed to the sower (or And he who serveth up seed to the sower), shall give also bread to eat, and he shall multiply your seed, and make much the increasings of (the) fruits of your rightwiseness; 
that in all things ye made rich wax plenteous or abound into all simpleness, which worketh by us (the) doing of thankings to God. (so that in all things ye made rich grow plenteous, or abound, in all sincerity, which worketh in us the giving of thanks to God.) 
For the ministry (or the service) of this office not only filleth those things that fail to holy men, but also multiplieth many thankings to God, 
by the proving of this ministry, which glorify God in the obedience of your acknowledging in the gospel of Christ (or in the Gospel, or the Good News, of the Messiah), and in (the) simpleness (or the sincerity) of (the) communication into them and into all others, 
and in the beseeching of them for you, that desire you for the excellent grace of God in you. 
I do thankings to God of the gift of him, that may not be told (out). I give thankings to God upon the unnarrable, (or unnarrative-able, or untellable), or that may not be told (out), gift of him.(I give thanks to God, for his gift, thanks that can never be sufficiently told out or described.) 
