WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
Chapter 4.
How fair is a chaste generation with clearness or clarity; for the mind thereof is undeadly, for it is known, both with God, and with men. 
When it is present, they pursue or follow it; and they desire it, when it hath led out itself, and it over-coming getteth by victory the meed of battles undefouled, and is crowned without end. 
But the manyfold engendered multitude of wicked or unpious men shall not be profitable; and (as) plantings of adultery they shall not give deep roots, neither shall set stable steadfastness. 
Though they burgeon in boughs or (in) branches for a time, they set unsteadfastly shall be moved of (or by) the wind, and they shall be drawn out by the root of the greatness of winds or and of the muchliness of winds (they shall be) pulled up by the roots. 
For why boughs or branches unperfect shall be broken (al)together; and the fruits of them be unprofitable, and sour to eat, and covenable to (or suitable for) nothing. 
For why all (the) sons, that be born of wicked men, be witnesses of wickedness against fathers and mothers, in their asking. 
But a just man or The rightwise, though he be before-occupied by death, shall be in refreshing. 
For why worshipful eld (age) is not of long time or long enduring, neither it is reckoned by the number of years; 
the wits of a man be hoary, and the age of eld (or old age)is life without wem, (or spot), or undefouled. 
He pleased God, and was made dearworth(y), or loved, and he living among sinners was translated, or borne over; 
he was ravished, lest malice should change his understanding, either lest feigning should deceive or beguile his soul. 
For why deceiving of trifling maketh dark good things, and the unstable-ness of covetousness turneth over or overturneth the wit without malice. 
He was ended in short time, and ful filled many times; 
for why his soul was pleasant to or pleased God; for this thing God hast(en)ed to lead him out from the midst of wickednesses; 
but peoples saw and understood not, neither setted or putted such things in their hearts or entrails. For the grace and mercy of God is on (or with) his saints, and (the) beholding or (the) respectof God is on (or for) his chosen men. 
Forsooth a just man dead condemn-eth quick wicked men; and youth ended swiftlier condemneth the long life of an unjust man. Forsooth the rightwise dead condemneth the un-pious men alive; and youth swiftlier ended, the long life of the unrightwise. 
For they shall see the end of a wise man, and they shall not under-stand, what thing God thought of him, and why the Lord made him less or diminished him. 
For they shall see, and shall despise him; but the Lord shall scorn them. And after these things they shall be falling down without honour, and in despising among dead men without end. 
For he shall all-break them swollen without voice, and he shall move them from the foundaments (or the foundations); and they shall be desolate till to the last thing. And they shall be wailing, and the mind (or the memory) of them shall perish. 
They shall come fearedful in the thought of their sins; and their wickednesses on the contrary side shall lead them over. 
