JOHN.
Chapter 18.
When Jesus had said these things, he went out with his disciples over the strand of Cedron, (or he went out with his disciples across the Kidron Stream, or the Kidron Gorge, or the Kidron Valley), where (there) was a yard, or a garden, into which he entered, and his disciples. 
And Judas, that betrayed him, knew the place, for oft Jesus came thither with his disciples. 
Therefore when Judas had taken a company of knights, and ministers of the bishops, and of the Pharisees, he came thither with lanterns, and brands, and armours or arms. (And so when Judas had taken a company of soldiers, and servants, or officers, from the high priests, and from the Pharisees, he came there with lanterns, and torches, and weapons.) 
And so Jesus witting all things that were to come on him, went forth, and said to them, Whom seek ye? 
They answered to him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith to them, I am (he). And Judas that betrayed him, stood with them. 
And when he said to them, I am (he), they went aback, and fell down on the earth. (And when he said to them, I am he, they went backward, and fell down on the ground.) 
And again he asked them, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. 
He answered to them, I said to you, that I am (he); therefore if ye seek me, suffer ye these to go away, (or and so if ye came for me, allow these men to go away). 
(So) That the word which he said should be fulfilled, For I lost not any of them, which thou hast given to me. 
Therefore Simon Peter had a sword, and drew it out, and smote the servant of the bishop (or and struck the servant of the High Priest), and cut off his right ear. And the name of the servant was Malchus. 
Therefore Jesus said to Peter, Put thou thy sword into thy sheath; wilt thou not, that I drink the cup, that my Father gave to me? 
Therefore the company of knights, and the tribune, and the ministers of the Jews, took Jesus, and bound him, (And so the company of soldiers, and the tribune, and the servants, or the officers, of the Jews, took hold of Jesus, and bound him,) 
and led him first to Annas; for he was the father of Caiaphas’ wife, that was bishop of that year. (and first they led him to Annas; he was the father of the wife of Caiaphas, and Caiaphas was the High Priest that year.) 
And it was Caiaphas, that gave counsel to the Jews, that it speedeth (or it was expedient), that one man (should) die for the people. 
But Simon Peter (pur)sued Jesus, and another disciple; and that disciple was known to the bishop. And he entered with Jesus, into the hall of the bishop; (And Simon Peter, and another disciple, followed Jesus; and that disciple was known to Annas, who was a former High Priest. And he entered with Jesus, into the courtyard of the former High Priest;) 
but Peter stood at the door withoutforth. Therefore that other disciple, that was known to the bishop, went out, and said to the woman that kept the door, and brought in Peter. (but Peter stood at the door, or at the gate, outside the courtyard. And so that other disciple, who was known to the former High Priest, went out, and spoke to the woman who kept watch at the door, or at the gate, and brought Peter in.) 
And the damsel, (the) keeper of the door, said to Peter, Whether thou art also of this man’s disciples? He said, I am not. (And the young woman, who kept watch at the door, or at the gate, said to Peter, Art thou also one of this man’s disciples? He said, I am not.) 
And the servants and the ministers stood at the coals (or And the servants and the officers stood by the coals), for it was cold, and they warmed them(selves); and Peter was with them, standing (there) and warming him(self). 
And the bishop asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his teaching. (And the former High Priest asked Jesus about his disciples, and about his teaching.) 
Jesus answered to him, I have spoken openly to the world; I taught evermore in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither all the Jews came together, and in huddles or in private I spake nothing. (Jesus answered to him, I have spoken openly to all the world; I always taught in the synagogue, and at the Temple, where all the Jews came together, and I never said anything in private.) 
What askest thou me? (or Why askest me?) ask them that heard me, what I have spoken to them; lo! they know, what things I have said. 
When he had said these things, one of the ministers standing nigh, gave a buffet to Jesus, and said, Answerest thou so to the bishop? (When he had said these things, one of the officers standing nearby, gave a blow to Jesus, and said, Answerest thou so to the High Priest?) 
Jesus answered to him, If I have spoken evil, bear thou witnessing of evil; but if I said well, why smitest thou me? (Jesus said to him, If I have said anything wrong, testify to what that wrong was; but if I have spoken truthfully, why strikest me?) 
And Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the bishop. (And then Annas, the former High Priest, sent Jesus while still in bonds, or still tied up, to Caiaphas, the current High Priest.) 
And (meanwhile) Simon Peter stood, and warmed him(self); and they said to him, Whether also thou art his disciple? (or Art thou also his disciple?) He denied, and said, I am not. 
One of the bishop’s servants (or One of the former High Priest’s servants), (a) cousin of him, whose ear Peter cut off, said, Saw I thee not in the yard with him? +or Whether I saw thee not in the garden with him? 
And Peter again denied, and anon the cock crew. (And again Peter denied it, and at once the cock crowed.) 
Then they led Jesus to Caiaphas, into the moot hall; and it was early, and they entered not into the moot hall, that they should not be defouled, but that they should eat pask. (And then they led Jesus from Caiaphas, to the Hall of Judgement, at the Governor’s palace; and it was early in the morning, and they did not enter into the Hall of Judgement at the Governor’s palace, so that they would not be defiled, and then they could still eat the Passover.) 
Therefore Pilate went out withoutforth to them, and said, What accusing bring ye against this man? (And so Pilate went outside to them, and said, What accusation, or what charge, do ye make against this man?) 
They answered, and said to him, If this were not a mis-doer, we had not betaken him to thee. (They said to him, If he were not a wrong-doer, we would not have delivered him, or we would not have brought him, to thee.) 
Then Pilate saith to them, Take ye him, and deem ye him, after your law. And the Jews said to him, It is not leaveful to us, to slay any man; (Then Pilate said to them, Take him, and judge him yourselves, according to your Law. And the Jews said to him, It is not lawful for us, to kill any man;) 
(so) that the word of Jesus should be fulfilled, which he said, signifying by what death he should die. 
Therefore again Pilate entered into the moot hall, and called Jesus, and said to him, Art thou king of Jews? (And so Pilate went back into the Hall of Judgement in the Governor’s palace, and called Jesus, and said to him, Art thou the King of the Jews?) 
Jesus answered, and said to him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or others have said (it) to thee of me? 
Pilate answered, Whether I am a Jew? Thy folk and the bishops betook thee to me (or Thy own people and the high priests have delivered thee to me); what hast thou done? 
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world; if my kingdom were of this world, my ministers would strive, that I should not be taken to the Jews; but now my kingdom is not here. (Jesus answered, My Kingdom is not of this world; if my Kingdom was of this world, my servants would fight, so that I would not be delivered, or handed over, to the Jews; but now my Kingdom is not here.) 
And so Pilate said to him, Then art thou a king? Jesus answered, Thou sayest, that I am a king. To this thing I am born, and to this I came into the world, to bear witnessing to truth (or to testify to the truth). Each man that is of (the) truth, heareth my voice. 
Pilate saith to him, What is truth? And when he had said this thing, again he went out to the Jews, and said to them, I find no cause (or crime worthy of death) in him, or I find no cause against him, (or I find no case against him). 
But it is a custom to you, that I deliver, or that I leave, (or I let go), one to you in pask; therefore will ye that I deliver to you the king of Jews? (But it is a custom for you, that I release, or that I let go, one prisoner for you at Passover; and so do ye desire that I release to you the King of the Jews?) 
All they cried again (or And they all cried again), and said, Not this (man), but Barabbas. And Barabbas was a thief. 
