MATTHEW.
Chapter 4.
Then Jesus was led of a spirit into desert, to be tempted of the fiend or of the devil. (Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the desert, to be tested by the Devil.) 
And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, afterward he hungered. 
And the tempter came nigh (or And the Tester came near), and said to him, If thou be God’s Son or If thou art the Son of God, say that these stones be made (into) loaves. 
Which answered, and said to him, It is written, Not only in bread liveth man, but in each word that cometh forth of God’s mouth. The which answering said to him, It is written, A man liveth not in bread alone, but in every word that cometh forth from the mouth of God. 
Then the fiend or the devil took him into the holy city, and setted him on the pinnacle of the temple, 
and said to him, If thou art God’s Son, send thee adown, or If thou art the Son of God, send thee down; for it is written, That to his angels he commanded of thee, and they shall take thee in (their) hands, lest peradventure thou hurt thy foot at a stone. 
Again Jesus said to him, It is written, Thou shalt not tempt thy Lord God, or Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God, (or Thou shalt not test the Lord thy God). 
Again the fiend or the devil took him up into a full high hill, and showed to him all the realms of the world, and the joy or the glory of them; (And the Devil took him up onto a very high hill, or onto a mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory;) 
and said to him, All these I shall give to thee, if thou fall down and worship me. 
Then Jesus said to him, Go, Satan; for it is written, Thou shalt worship thy Lord God or Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and to him alone thou shalt serve. 
Then the fiend or the devil left him; and lo! angels came nigh, and served to him (or and ministered to him). 
But when Jesus had heard that John was taken (captive), he went into Galilee. 
And he left the city of Nazareth, and came, and dwelt in the city of Capernaum, beside the sea, in the coasts of Zabulon and Nephthalim (or of Zebulun and Naphtali), 
that it should be fulfilled, that was said by Esaias, the prophet, saying, (so that it would be fulfilled, what was said by the prophet Isaiah, saying,) 
The land of Zabulon and the land of Nephthalim, the way of the sea over (the) Jordan (River), of Galilee of heathen men (or in Galilee of the Gentiles), 
the people that walked or that dwelt in darknesses saw (a) great light (or the people who lived in darkness saw a great light), and while men sat in the country of the shadow of death, light arose to them. 
From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Do ye penance, for the kingdom of heavens shall come nigh, or Do ye penance, for the realm of heaven hath nighed, (or Repent, for the Kingdom of Heaven is near). 
And Jesus walked beside the sea of Galilee, and saw two brethren, Simon, that is called Peter, and Andrew, his brother, casting nets into the sea; for they were fishers. (And Jesus walked beside Lake Galilee, and saw two brothers, Simon, that is called Peter, and Andrew, his brother, throwing their nets into the lake; for they were fishermen.) 
And he said to them, Come ye after me, and I shall make you to be made fishers of men. 
And anon they left their nets, and (pur)sued him. (And at once they left their nets, and followed him.) 
And he went forth from that place, and saw twain other brethren, James of Zebedee, and John, his brother, in a ship with Zebedee, their father, amending their nets, and he called them. 
And anon they left the nets and the father, and (pur)sued him. (And at once they left their nets and their father, and followed him.) 
And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in the synagogues of them, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every languor, or all sorrow, or ache, and each sickness among the people. (And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the Gospel, or the Good News, of the Kingdom, and healing every languor, or every sorrow, or ache, and every sickness among the people.) 
And his fame went into all (of) Syria; and they brought to him all that were at mal-ease, and that were taken with diverse languors or sorrows, and torments, and them that had fiends or devils, (or and those who had demons), and lunatic men, and men (sick) in the palsy, and he healed them. 
And there (pur)sued him much people of Galilee, and of Decapolis, and of Jerusalem, and of Judea, and of beyond (the) Jordan. (And many people followed him from Galilee, and from Decapolis, and from Jerusalem, and from Judea, and from over the Jordan River.) 
