EPHESIANS.
Chapter 6.
Sons, obey ye to your father and mother, in the Lord; for this thing is rightful, or (it) is just, (or for this is the right thing to do). 
Honour thou thy father and mother, that is the first commandment in the promise; 
(so) that it be well to thee, and that thou be long living on the earth. 
And, fathers, do not ye provoke your sons to wrath; but nourish ye them in the teaching and (the) chastising of the Lord or but nourish ye them in the discipline and (the) correction of the Lord. 
Servants, obey ye to fleshly lords with dread and trembling, in simpleness of your heart, as to Christ; (Servants, obey your human lords with fearful reverence and trembling, and with sincerity in your hearts, as unto the Messiah;) 
not serving at the eye, as pleasing to men, but as servants of Christ (or but as the Messiah’s servants); doing the will of God by discretion, 
with good will serving as to the Lord, and not as to men; 
witting (or knowing) that each man, whatever good thing he shall do, he shall receive this of the Lord, whether servant, whether free man. 
And, ye lords, do the same things to them, forgiving menacings; witting that both their Lord and yours is in heavens, and the taking of persons is not with God. (And, ye lords, do the same thing for them, forgiving threats; knowing that both their Lord and yours is in heaven, and that the favouring of persons is not done by God.) 
Here afterward, brethren, be ye comforted in the Lord, and in the might of his virtue. (Here afterward or Henceforth, brothers, be strengthened in the Lord, and in the power of his might.) 
Clothe you(rselves) with the armour of God, that ye may stand against the ambushings, or (the) assailings, of the devil. (Clothe yourselves with the armour of God, so that ye can stand against the Devil’s assaults.) 
For why striving or battle is not to us against flesh and blood, but against the princes and (the) potentates, against (the) governors of the world of these darknesses, (or against the rulers of the darkness in this world, or the rulers of this dark world), against spiritual things of wickedness, in heavenly things. 
Therefore take ye the armour of God, that ye may against-stand in the evil day, (or And so take or put on God’s armour, so that ye can withstand, or stand against,the Devil on the Day of Evil); and in all things stand perfect. 
Therefore stand ye, and be girded about your loins in soothfastness, and clothed with the habergeon of rightwiseness, (And so stand, with your loins girded in truthfulness, or with truth, and clothed with the breastplate of righteousness,) 
and your feet shod in (the) making ready of the gospel of peace. (and your feet shod in the preparation of the Gospel, or the Good News, of peace.) 
In all things take ye the shield of faith, in which ye may quench all the fiery darts of him that is(the) most wicked or (of him who is) the worst. 
And take ye the helmet of health, and the sword of the Ghost, that is, the word of God. (And take or put on the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Holy Spirit, that is, the word of God.) 
By all prayer and beseeching pray ye all time in (the) Spirit, and in him waking in all busyness, and beseeching for all holy men or for all (the) saints. (By all prayer and beseeching pray all the time in the Spirit, and in him keeping watch with all diligence, and beseeching for all of God’s people.) 
and for me; that word be given to me in (the) opening of my mouth, with trust to make known the mystery of the gospel, 
for which I am set in message in a chain (or for which I am an ambassador in a chain); so that in it I be hardy (or I be bold) to speak, as it behooveth me to speak out. 
And (so that) ye know, what things be about me, (and) what I do, Tychicus, my most dear brother, and true minister in the Lord (or and a true servant in the Lord), shall make all things known to you; 
whom I sent to you for this same thing, (so) that ye know what things be about us, and that he comfort your hearts (or and so that he strengthen your hearts). 
Peace to brethren, and charity, (or Peace be to the brothers, and love), with (the) faith of God our Father, and of the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Grace (be) with all men that love our Lord Jesus Christ in uncorruption. Amen, that is, So be it. 
