TITUS.
Chapter 2.
But speak thou those things that beseem or that become wholesome teaching; 
that old men be sober, chaste, prudent, whole in faith, in love, and patience; 
also old women in holy habit, not slanderers or backbiters, not serving much to wine, well-teaching, (so) that they teach prudence. 
Admonish thou young women, that they love their husbands, that they love their children; 
and that they be prudent, chaste, sober, having care of the house, benign, subject to their husbands, (so) that the word of God be not blasphemed. 
Also admonish young men, that they be sober (or that they be temperate). 
In all things give thyself ensample of good works, in teaching, in wholeness or in holiness of living, that is, in cleanness of soul and body, in firmness of virtues. 
An wholesome word, and unreprovable (or unreproachable); that he that is of the contrary side, be ashamed, having none evil thing to say of you. 
Admonish thou servants to be subject to their lords; in all things pleasing, not gainsaying, (or not speaking back to them, or not speaking against them), 
not defrauding, but in all things showing good faith, (so) that they honour in all things the doctrine of God, our Saviour. 
For the grace of God, our Saviour, hath appeared to all men, 
and taught us, that we (should) forsake wickedness or unpiety, and worldly desires, and live soberly, and justly, and piously in this world, 
abiding the blessed hope and the coming of the glory of the great God, and our Saviour Jesus Christ; 
that gave himself for us, to again-buy us from all wickedness, and make clean to himself a people acceptable, and (pur)suer of good works. (who gave himself for us, to redeem us from all wickedness, and to make clean an acceptable people unto himself, who be pursuers of good works.) 
Speak thou these things, and admonish thou, and reprove thou with all commandment; no man despise thee. (Speak these things, and admonish, and rebuke them with all authority; let no man despise thee.) 
