GENESIS.
Chapter 7.
Also the Lord said to Noe, Enter thou and all thine house into the ship, for I saw (that) thee (alone were) just before me in this generation. (And then the Lord said to Noah, Enter thou and all thy household, or all thy family, into the ship, for I have seen that in this generation, thou alone be righteous before me.) 
Of all clean living beasts, thou shalt take (with thee) by seven and by seven, male and female; forsooth of unclean living beasts, thou shalt take by twain and by twain, male and female; (Of all clean beasts, thou shalt take with thee seven pairs, male and female; but of all unclean beasts, thou shalt take only one pair, male and female;) 
and also of the volatiles of (the) heaven(s), thou shalt take, by seven and by seven, male and female, that their seed be saved on the face of all (the) earth. (and also of the birds of the air, thou shalt take seven pairs, male and female, so that their descendants will continue to live on the face of the earth.) 
For yet and after seven days, I shall rain on the earth forty days and forty nights, and I shall do away all substance which I made, from the face of the earth. (For in seven days, I shall send rain on the earth for forty days and forty nights, and I shall do away all the substance which I made, from off the face of the earth.) 
Therefore Noe did all things which the Lord commanded to him. 
And he was six hundred years (old), when the waters of the great flood flowed on the earth. 
And Noe entered into the ship, and his sons, and his wife, and the wives of his sons, entered with him, for the waters of the great flood (or because of the waters of the great flood). 
And of living beasts clean and unclean, and of the birds of (the) heaven(s), and of each beast which is moved on the earth, (And of the clean and unclean beasts, and of the birds of the air, and of each beast which creepeth on the earth,) 
by twain and by twain, male and female entered to Noe into the ship, as the Lord commanded to Noe. (by two and two, male and female, they entered into the ship with Noah, as the Lord had commanded to Noah.) 
And when seven days had passed, the waters of the great flood flowed on the earth. 
In the six hundred(th) year of the life of Noe, in the second month, in the seventeenth day of the month (or on the seventeenth day of the month), all the wells of the great sea were broken, and the windows of (the) heaven(s) were opened, 
and rain was made on the earth (for) forty days and forty nights. 
In the end of that day Noe entered, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, his sons, (or At the end of that day Noah entered, and his sons Shem, and Ham, and Japheth), and his wife, and the three wives of his sons, entered with them into the ship. 
They entered, and each beast by his kind, and all work beasts in their kind, and each beast which is moved on the earth in his kind, and each volatile by his kind; all birds and all volatiles, (They entered, and each beast after its kind, and all the work beasts after their kind, and each beast which creepeth on the earth after its kind, and each bird after its kind, yea, all the kinds of birds,) 
entered to Noe into the ship, by twain and by twain of each flesh in which the spirit of life was. (entered into the ship with Noah, two by two of all flesh in which was the spirit of life.) 
And those that entered, entered male and female of each flesh, as God commanded to him. And the Lord enclosed him from withoutforth. (And they that entered, entered male and female of all flesh, as God had commanded to him. And the Lord enclosed him from outside.) 
And the great flood was made (for) forty days and forty nights on the earth, and the waters were multiplied, and raised (up) the ship on high from the earth. 
The waters flowed greatly, and filled all things in the face of the earth, (or And the waters greatly flowed, and filled up all the things that were on the face of the earth). Forsooth the ship was borne on the waters. 
And the waters had mastery greatly on the earth (or And the waters had great mastery over the earth), and all the high hills under all (of) heaven were covered; 
(yea), the water was higher, by fifteen cubits, over (all) the hills which it covered. 
And each flesh was wasted that moved on the earth, of birds, of living beasts, of unreasonable beasts, and of all reptiles/all creeping beasts that creep on the earth. (And all flesh that moved on the earth was destroyed, yea, birds, and living beasts, and unreasoning beasts, and all the reptiles that creep on the earth.) 
All men, and all things in which the breathing of life was in the earth, were dead. (And all men, and all the things on the earth in which was the breath of life, died.) 
And God did away all the substance that was on the earth, from man till to beast, as well a creeping beast, as the birds of (the) heaven(s); and those were done away from the earth. Forsooth Noe dwelled alone, and they that were with him in the ship. (And so God did away all the life that was on the earth, from man unto beasts, and reptiles, and the birds of the air, they were all done away from the earth. And only Noah, and those who were with him in the ship, remained alive.) 
And the waters of the great flood over-went the earth an hundred and fifty days. (And the waters of the great flood went over the earth for a hundred and fifty days.) 
