ADDITIONS TO ESTHER.
Chapter 13.
Soothly this was the sampler of the epistle. The greatest king Ahasuerus, from India unto Ethiopia, saith health to the princes and dukes of an hundred and seven and twenty provinces, which princes and dukes be subject/s to his empire. 
When I was lord of full many folks, and I had made subject all the world to my lordship, I would not mis-use the greatness of (my) power, but govern (my) subjects by (or with) mercy and softness, (so) that they, leading their life in silence without any dread, should use peace coveted of (or by) all deadly (or mortal) men. 
And when I asked of my coun-sellors, how this might be ful filled, one, Haman by name, that (sur)passed other men in wisdom and faithfulness, and was the second after the king, 
showed or told to me, that a people was scattered in all the round-ness of lands, the which people used new laws, and did against the custom of all folks, and despised the commandments of kings, and defouled by his dissention the according of all nations, or the one accord, or the concord, of diverse nations with their dissentions defoul. 
And when we had learned this thing, and saw, that one folk rebel against all the kind of men, and that it used wayward, or shrewd, (or de-praved) laws, and was contrary to our commandments, and disturbed, or troubled, the peace and according or the accord of provinces subject to us, 
we commanded, that whichever or whosoever Haman showed, which (or who) is sovereign or provost of all (the) provinces, and is the second from the king, and whom we honour in the place of (a) father, (that) they with their wives and children, be done away of (or by) their enemies, and no man have mercy upon them, in the fourteenth day of the twelfth month (of) Adar, or March, of the present year; 
(so) that (the) cursed or wicked men go down to hell (or into the grave) in one day, and yield peace to our empire, which they had troubled or disturbed. Hitherto is the sampler of the epistle; these things, that pursueor (that) follow, I found written after that place, where it is read, And Mordecai went, and did all things, which Esther had commanded to him; nevertheless those things be not had in Hebrew, and utterly those be not said at (or by) any of the translatorsor interpreters. 
Forsooth Mordecai besought the Lord, and was mindful of all his works, or and he was mindful of all the works of the Lord, Mordecai forsooth pray-ed the Lord, mindful of all his works, 
and said, Lord God, King Almighty, all things be set in thy lordship, either power, and there is none, that may against-stand thy will; if thou deemest for to save Israel, we shall be delivered anon (or at once). and said, Lord, Lord, king almighty, in thy power all things be set, and there is not, that may withstand to thy will; if thou deem to save Israel, anon we shall be delivered. 
Thou madest heaven and earth, and whatever thing or and all thing that is contained in the compass of heaven. 
Thou art Lord of all things, and there is none that against-standeth thy majesty. 
Thou knowest all things, and knowest, that not for pride and spite, neither for any covetousness of vain glory I did this thing, that I worship-ped not Haman the most proud manor that I honour not the most proud Haman; 
for I was ready willfully (or will-ingly) to kiss, or for I was ready to have kissed willfully (or willingly), yea, the steps of his feet for the health (or the deliverance) of Israel, forsooth gladly for the health of Israel also the steps of his feet I were ready to kiss, 
but I dreaded, lest I should bear over to man, or to a man, the honour of my God, and lest I should worship any man except my God. 
And now, Lord King, God of Abraham, have thou mercy on thy people, for our enemies will lose us (or they desire to destroy us), and do away thine heritage; 
despise not thy part, which thou again-boughtest (or redeemedest) from Egypt. not despise thou thy part, that thou hast again-bought from Egypt. 
Hear thou my prayer, and be thou merciful to the lot, and the part of thine heritage; and turn thou our mourning into joy, (so) that we living praise thy name, Lord; and close thou not the mouths of men praising thee. 
And all Israel with like mind and beseeching cried to the Lord, for cause that certain death nighed to them (or because that certain death approached unto them). 
