1ST THESSALONIANS.
Chapter 2.
For, brethren, ye know our entry to you, for it was not (in) vain; 
but first we suffered, and were punished with wrongs, as ye know in Philippi, and had trust in our Lord, to speak to you the gospel of God in much busyness (or to tell you about the Gospel, or the Good News, of God with much diligence). 
And our exhortation or our teaching is not of error, neither of uncleanness, neither in guile, 
but as we be (ap)proved of God, that the gospel of God should be taken to us, so we speak, (or but as we be approved by God, that the Gospel, or the Good News, of God should be given to us, and so we speak); not as pleasing to men, but to God that proveth our hearts. 
For neither we were any time in word(s) of glossing or of flattering, as ye know, neither in occasion of avarice (or nor as an occasion for greed); God is (our) witness; 
neither seeking glory of men, neither of you, neither of others, when we, as Christ’s apostles, might have been in charge to you. (neither seeking praise from people, nor from you, nor from others, when we, as Christ’s apostles, might have been in charge of you or might have been a burden to you.)neither seeking glory of men, neither of you, neither of others, when we might have been chargeous (or burdensome) to you, as Christ’s apostles. 
But we were made little in the middle of you, as if a nurse foster her sons; 
so we desiring you with great love, would have betaken to you not only the gospel of God (or would have delivered to you not only the Gospel, or the Good News, of God), but also our lives, for ye be made most dearworthy to us. 
For, brethren, ye be mindful of our travail and weariness; we worked night and day, that we should not grieve any of you, and preached to you the gospel of God. (Because, brothers, ye remember our labour and our weariness; yea, we worked night and day, so that we would not grieve any of you, and preached to you the Gospel, or the Good News, of God.) 
God and ye be witnesses, how holily (or how devoutly), and justly, and without (com)plaint or quarrel, we were to you that believed. 
As ye know, how we prayed you (or how we beseeched you), and comforted each of you, as the father his sons, 
and we have witnessed (or and we have testified), that ye should go worthily to God, that called you into his kingdom and glory. 
Therefore we do thankings to God without ceasing. For when ye had taken of us the word of the hearing of God, ye took it not as the word of men, but as it is verily, the word of God, that worketh in you that have believed. (And so we give thanks to God without ceasing. Because when ye had received from us the word of God, which ye heard, ye took it not as the word of men, but as it truly is, the word of God, which worketh in you who have believed.) 
For, brethren, ye be made followers of the churches of God, that be in Judea, in Christ Jesus, for ye have suffered the same things of your even-lineages, as they of the Jews, (or and ye have suffered the same things from your fellow countrymen, as they have from the Jews). 
Which slew both the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and pursued us (or and persecuted us), and they please not to God, and they be adversaries to all men; 
forbidding us to speak to heathen men, that they be made safe, that they full-fill their sins (for)evermore; for the wrath of God came on them into the end. (forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles, so that they can be saved, so that they fill their sins full forevermore; but God’s wrath hath come upon them in the end.) 
And, brethren, we desolate from you for a time, by mouth and in beholding, as in presence, but not in heart, have hied more plenteously to see your face with great desire. 
For we would come to you, yea, I, Paul, once and again, but Satan hindered us. 
For why what is our hope, or joy, or crown of glory? Whether ye be not before our Lord Jesus Christ in his coming? (or Shall it not be you, when we stand before our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming?) 
For ye be our glory and joy. (Yea, ye be our glory and our joy.) 
