2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 6.
But we helping you in work and word admonish you, that ye receive not the grace of God in vain (or so that ye did not receive God’s grace in vain). 
For he saith, In time well pleasing I have heard thee, and in the day of health, I have helped thee. Lo! now a time acceptable, lo! now a day of health. (For he saith, In my time of favour I heard thee, and on the Day of Deliverance, or on the Day of Salvation, I helped thee. Behold! now is a time of favour, behold! now is the Day of Deliverance, or the Day of Salvation.) 
Give we to no man any offence, (so) that our service be not reproved; To no man giving any offence, or hurting, (so) that our ministry, or service, be not reproved; 
but in all things give we us-selves as the ministers (or the servants) of God, in much patience, in tribulations, in needs, in anguishes, 
in beatings, or scourgings, in prisons, in dissensions within, in travails, in wakings, in fastings, 
in chastity, in cunning, (or in knowing), or in science, in long abiding, in sweetness, in the Holy Ghost, in charity not feigned, (in chastity or in purity, in knowledge, in patience, in sweetness, in the Holy Spirit, in sincere love,) 
in the word of truth, in the virtue of God; by armours of rightwiseness on the right half and on the left half; (in the word of truth, in the power of God; by the arms, or the weapons, of righteousness on the right side, or at the right hand, and on the left side, or at the left hand;) 
by glory and unnobleness; by evil fame and good fame; as deceivers, and true men; 
as they that be unknown and known; as men dying, and lo! we live; as chastised, and not made dead; 
as sorrowful, and (for)evermore joying, or as sorrowful, but evermore joying; as having need, but making many men rich; as nothing having, and wielding all things. (as sorrowful, and yet always joyful; as having need, yet making many men rich; as having nothing, and yet possessing everything.) 
A! ye Corinthians, our mouth is open to you, our heart is alarged; (O ye Corinthians! we have spoken openly or frankly to you, and our heart was enlarged or was open wide to you;) 
ye be not anguished in us, but ye be anguished in your inwardnesses. +ye be not made strait in us, but ye be made strait, or be ye anguished, in your entrails. 
And I say as to sons, ye that have the same reward, be ye alarged (or be ye enlarged, or open wide your hearts to us). 
Do not ye bear the yoke with unfaithful men. For what parting, or communing, of rightwiseness with wickedness? or what fellowship of light to darknesses? (Do not carry the yoke with the unfaithful or with unbelievers. For what sharing is there of righteousness with wickedness? or what fellowship of light with darkness?) 
and what according of Christ to Belial? or what part of a faithful man with the unfaithful, or (the) heathen? (and what agreement is there between the Messiah and Belial or the Devil? or what sharing or communing is there between a believer and an unbeliever or a Gentile?) 
and what consent to the temple of God with maumets? (or and what consent between God’s temple and idols?) And ye be the temple of the living God, as the Lord saith, For I shall dwell in them, and I shall walk among them; and I shall be the God of them, and they shall be a people to me. 
For which thing go ye out of the middle of them, and be ye separated (or be set apart), saith the Lord, and touch not (any) unclean thing; and I shall receive you, 
and I shall be to you into a Father, and ye shall be to me into sons and daughters, saith the Lord almighty. 
