JOHN.
Chapter 5.
After these things there was a feast day of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
And in Jerusalem is a washing place (or a pool), that in Hebrew is called Bethesda, and (it) hath five porches. Forsooth at Jerusalem is a standing water of beasts (or a watering pool for beasts), that in Hebrew is called Bethesda, having five little gates, or entries. 
In these lay a great multitude of sick men, blind, crooked (or lame), and dry (or withered), abiding (or waiting for) the moving or the stirring of the water. 
For the angel of the Lord came down (at) certain times into the standing water (or into the pool), and the water was moved; and he that first came down into the cistern, after the moving of the water, was made whole (or was healed) of whatever sickness he was held (by). 
And a man was there, having eight and thirty years in his sickness. 
And when Jesus had seen him lying (there), and had known, that he had much time (there), he saith to him, Wilt thou be made whole? 
The sick man answered to him, Lord, I have no man, (so) that when the water is moved or (it) is troubled, to put me into the cistern (or into the pool); for while I come, another goeth down before me. 
Jesus saith to him, Rise up, take thy bed, and go. (Jesus said to him, Get up, pick up thy bed, and go.) 
And anon the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and went forth. And it was sabbath in that day. (And at once the man was healed, and picked up his bed, and went forth. And that day was the Sabbath.) 
Therefore the Jews said to him that was made whole, It is (the) sabbath, it is not leaveful to thee, to take away thy bed. (And so the Jews said to him who was healed, It is the Sabbath, and it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed.) 
He answered to them, He that made me whole, said to me, Take (up) thy bed, and go. (He answered to them, He who healed me, said to me, Pick up thy bed, and go.) 
Therefore they asked him, What man is that or Who is that man, that said to thee, Take up thy bed, and go? (or Who said to thee, Pick up thy bed, and go?) 
But he that was made whole, wist not who it was, (or But he who was healed, did not know who it was). And Jesus (had) bowed away from the people, that was set in the place. 
Afterward Jesus found him in the temple, and said to him, Lo! thou art made whole, (or Behold! thou art healed); now do not thou do sin or now do not thou sin, lest any worse thing befall to thee. 
(Then) That man went, and told to the Jews, that it was Jesus that made him whole. 
Therefore the Jews pursued Jesus, for he did this thing in the sabbath. (And so the Jews persecuted Jesus, because he did this miracle on the Sabbath.) 
And Jesus answered to them, My Father worketh till now, and I work. 
Therefore the Jews sought more to slay him, for not only he brake the sabbath, but he said that God was his Father, and made him(self) even (or equal) to God. 
Therefore Jesus answered, and said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, (or Truly, I tell you the truth), the Son may not of himself do anything, no but that thing that he seeth the Father doing; for whatever things he doeth, the Son doeth in like manner those things. 
For the Father loveth the Son, and showeth to him all (the) things that he doeth; and he shall show to him greater works than these, (so) that ye wonder. 
For as the Father raiseth dead men, and quickeneth (them), so the Son quickeneth whom he will. (For as the Father raiseth the dead, and giveth them life, so the Son giveth life to whomever he desireth.) 
For neither the Father judgeth any man, but hath given every doom to the Son, (For the Father judgeth no one, but hath given every judgement to the Son,) 
(so) that all men honour the Son, as they honour the Father. He that honoureth not the Son, honoureth not the Father that sent him. 
Truly, truly, I say to you, (or Truly, I tell you the truth), that he that heareth my word, and believeth in him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and he cometh not into doom, (or hath eternal life, and he cometh not unto judgement), but passeth from death into life. 
Truly, truly, I say to you, (or Truly, I tell you the truth), for the hour cometh, and now it is, when dead men (or when the dead) shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear (it), shall live. 
For as the Father hath life in himself, so he gave to the Son, to have life in himself; 
and he gave to him power to make doom, (or and he gave him the authority to pass judgement), for he is man’s Son. 
Do not ye wonder in this, for the hour cometh, in which all men that be in burials, shall hear the voice of God’s Son. (Do not wonder at this, for the hour cometh, in which all those who be in graves, shall hear the voice of God’s Son.) 
And they that have done good things, shall go into again-rising of life or shall come forth into rising again of life; but they that have done evil things, into again-rising of doom. (And they who have done good, shall be resurrected for life; but they who have done evil, shall be resurrected for judgement or for condemnation.) 
I may nothing do of myself, but as I hear, I deem, or I may not of myself do anything, but as I hear, I judge, and my doom is just (or and my judgement is just and fair), for I seek not my will, but the will of the Father that sent me. 
If I bear witnessing of myself, my witnessing is not true; (If I testify about myself, my testimony is not accepted as true;) 
another is that beareth witnessing of me, and I know that his witnessing is true, that he beareth of me. (but there is another who testifieth about me, and I know that his testimony is true, what he testifieth about me.) 
Ye sent to John, and he bare witnessing to the truth. (Ye sent messengers to John, and he testified about the truth, or and he testified truthfully.) 
But I take not witnessing of (any) man; but I say these things, that ye be safe. (But I do not need the testimony of anyone; but I say these things, so that ye can be saved.) 
He was a lantern burning and shining, or giving light; but ye would (be) glad, or(would have)joy, (or rejoice), at an hour in his light. 
But I have more witnessing than John, for the works that my Father gave to me to perform them or forsooth the works that my Father gave me that I perform them, those works that I do bear witnessing of me, that the Father sent me. (But I have a greater witness than John, or But I have better testimony than John’s, for the works that my Father gave to me to complete, or to finish, those works that I do testify about me, that the Father sent me.) 
And the Father that sent me, he bare witnessing of me, (or And the Father who sent me, he testified about me). (But) Neither ye heard ever his voice, neither ye saw his likeness, or (his) form. 
And ye have not his word dwelling in you; for ye believe not to him, whom he sent. 
Seek ye the scriptures, in which ye guess to have everlasting life; and those it be, that bear witnessing of me. (Ye study the Scriptures, through which ye hope to gain eternal life; and they do indeed testify about me.) 
And (yet) ye will not come to me, (so) that ye (can) have (eternal) life. 
I take not clearness of men; (I do not receive my glory, or my honour, from people;) 
but I have known you, that ye have not the love of God in you. 
I came in the name of my Father, and ye took not me (or but ye did not receive me). If another come in his own name, ye shall receive him. 
How may ye believe, that receive glory each of (the) other, and ye seek not the glory that is of God alone? (How can ye believe, ye who receive your glory from one another, and seek not the glory that is from God alone?) 
Do not ye guess, that I am to accuse you with the Father; it is Moses that accuseth you, in whom ye hope. 
For if ye believed to Moses, peradventure ye should believe also to me; for he wrote of me. (For if ye believed Moses, perhaps ye would also believe me; for he wrote about me.) 
But if ye believe not to his letters, how shall ye believe to my words? (But if ye do not believe what he wrote, how shall ye believe what I say?) 
