PSALMS.
Chapter 97.
The Lord hath reigned, the earth make full out joy; many isles be glad. (The Lord reigneth, let the earth rejoice; let the many isles be glad.) 
Cloud and darkness in his compass; rightfulness and doom isthe amending of his seat. (Clouds and darkness surround him; righteousness and justice be the foundation of his throne.) 
Fire shall go before him; and shall enflame, either set afire, his enemies in compass. (Fire shall go before him; and shall set his enemies aflame, all around him.) 
His lightnings shined to the world; the earth saw, and was moved, (or the earth saw it, and trembled). 
Hills as wax floated down from the face of the Lord; all earth from the face of the Lord. (The hills flowed down like wax before the Lord; before the Lord of all the earth.) 
Heavens told his rightfulness; and all peoples saw his glory. (The heavens told out his righteousness; and all the peoples saw his glory.) 
All they that worship graven things, or images, be shamed, and they that have glory in their simulacra; all ye angels of the Lord, worship him. (All those who worship carved images, be put to shame, and they who have glory in their idols; and all ye gods, worship him.) 
Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah made full out joy, for thy dooms, Lord. (The people of Zion heard, and were glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced, for thy judgements, O Lord.) 
For thou, Lord, art the highest on all earth; thou art greatly enhanced over all gods. (For thou, Lord, art most high over all the earth, or For thou, Most High, art lord over all the earth; thou art exalted far above all gods.) 
Ye that love the Lord, hate evil, (or Ye who love the Lord, hate evil); the Lord keepeth (safe) the souls of his saints; he shall deliver them from the hand of the sinner. 
Light is risen to the rightful man; and gladness to rightful men of heart. (Light hath risen for the righteous; and gladness for those with upright hearts.) 
Just men, be ye glad in the Lord; and acknowledge ye to the mind of his hallowing. (Ye righteous, be glad in the Lord; and give ye thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.) 
