PROVERBS.
Chapter 15.
A soft answer breaketh ire; an hard word raiseth strong vengeance. 
The tongue of wise men honoureth knowing (or The speaking of the wise honoureth knowledge); the mouth of fools boileth out folly. 
In each place the eyes of the Lord behold good men, and evil men. 
A pleasant tongue is the tree of life; but the tongue that is unmeasurable or untempered, shall defoul the spirit. 
A fool scorneth the teaching of his father; but he that keepeth blamings (or but he who receiveth rebukes), shall be made wiser. Most virtue shall be in plenteous rightfulness; but the thoughts of wicked men shall be drawn up by the root. 
(In) The house of a just man is full great strength; and troubling is in the fruits of a wicked man. (In the house of the righteous is very great wealth; and trouble is in the fruits of the wicked.) 
The lips of wise men shall sow abroad knowing (or The lips of the wise sow abroad knowledge); (but) the heart(s) of fools shall be unlike (them, that is, they shall be full of ignorance). 
The sacrifices of wicked men be abominable to the Lord; the avows of just men be pleasant. (The sacrifices of the wicked be abominable to the Lord; but the vows of the righteous be pleasing to him.) 
The life of the unpious man is (an) abomination to the Lord; he that followeth rightfulness, shall be loved of the Lord. (The life of an evil person is an abomination to the Lord; but he who followeth righteousness, shall be loved by the Lord.) 
Evil teaching is of men that forsake the way of life; he that hateth blamings shall die. (Evil teaching is from those who abandon the way of life; he who hateth rebukes shall die.) 
Hell and perdition be open before the Lord; how much more the hearts of the sons (and daughters) of men. 
A man full of pestilence loveth not him that reproveth him; and he goeth not to wise men. 
A joyful heart maketh glad the face; (but) the spirit is cast down in the mourning of (the) soul. 
The heart of a wise man seeketh teaching; and the mouth of fools is fed with unknowing, (or with ignorance). 
All the days of a poor man be evil; a secure soul is a continual feast. (All the days of the poor be evil; the life of a secure soul is a continual feast.) 
Better is a little with the dread of the Lord, than many treasures and unfillable. (Better is a little with the fear of the Lord or with reverence for the Lord, than many treasures and troubles.) 
It is better to be called to worts with charity, than with hatred to a calf made fat. (It is better to be warmly, or cordially, called to herbs, or vegetables, than to be hatefully invited to share a fattened calf.) 
A wrathful man raiseth chidings; he that is patient, assuageth chidings that were raised. 
The way of slow men is as an hedge of thorns; the way of just men is without thing of hurting. (A lazy person’s way (is) a hedge of thorns; but the way of the righteous (is) without a cause of stumbling.) 
A wise son maketh glad his father; but a fond man despiseth his mother. (A wise son maketh his father happy; but a fool despiseth his mother.) 
Folly is joy to a fool; but a prudent man shall (ad)dress his steps. (Foolishness bringeth joy to a fool; but a prudent person shall direct his steps.) 
Thoughts be destroyed, where no counsel is; but where many counsellors be, they be confirmed. (Plans come to naught, where there is no wise advice; but where there be many counsellors, the plans succeed.) 
A man is glad in the sentence of his mouth; and a covenable word is best (or but a suitable word is always best). 
The path of life is on a learned man; that he bow away from the last hell. (The path of life leadeth upward for the learned; yea, so that they turn away from Sheol, or the land of the dead, or so that they turn away from hell, which is below.) 
The Lord shall destroy the house of proud men; and he shall make steadfast the coasts of a widow. (The Lord shall destroy the house of the proud; but he shall make firm the property lines, or the boundary stones, of a widow.) 
Evil thoughts is abomination of the Lord; and a clean word most fair shall be made steadfast of him. (Evil thoughts be an abomination to the Lord; but a most fair, and clean, word is his delight.) 
He that followeth avarice, troubleth his house; but he that hateth gifts shall live. Sins be purged by mercy and faith; each man boweth away from evil by the dread of the Lord, (or Sins be cleansed by love and faith; all can turn away from evil by the fear of the Lord or with reverence for the Lord). 
The soul of a just man bethinketh obedience; the mouth of wicked men is full of evils. (The righteous think before that they answer; but the ready reply of the wicked is usually full of evil.) 
The Lord is far from wicked men; and he shall hear the prayers of just men. (The Lord is far from the wicked; but he shall hear the prayers of the righteous.) 
The light of (the) eyes maketh glad the soul; good fame maketh fat the bones. (Sparkling eyes make a person happy; good news fatteneth up the bones.) 
The ear that heareth the blamings of life, shall dwell in the midst of wise men. (The person who listeneth to rebukes, shall live in the midst of the wise.) 
He that casteth away chastising, despiseth his soul; but he that assenteth to blamings, is a peaceable holder of the heart. (He who casteth away discipline, despiseth his own soul; but he who accepteth rebukes, shall become wiser.) 
The dread of the Lord is teaching of wisdom; and meekness goeth before glory. (The fear of the Lord or Reverence for the Lord is the teaching of wisdom; and humility goeth before honour.) 
