APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 13.
And I saw a beast ascending up (out) of the sea (or And I saw a beast going up out of the sea), having seven heads, and ten horns; and on his horns ten diadems (or ten crowns), and on his heads the names or the name of blasphemy. 
And the beast whom I saw, was like a leo pard, and his feet as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion; and the dragon gave his virtue and great power to him (or and the dragon gave his strength and authority and great power to him). 
And I saw one of his heads, as slain into (the) death; and the wound of his death was cured or was healed. And all the earth wondered after the beast. 
And they worshipped the dragon, that gave (his) power to the beast; and they worshipped the beast, and said, Who is like to the beast, and who shall be able to fight with it? 
And a mouth speaking great things, and blasphemies, was given to it; and power was given to it, to do two and forty months (or to reign for forty-two months). 
And it opened his mouth into blasphemies to God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven. (And it opened his mouth to blaspheme God, yea, to blaspheme his name, and his Tabernacle, and those who live in heaven.) 
And it was given to him to make battle with (the) saints, and to overcome them; and power was given to him into each lineage, and people, and language, and folk. (And it was given to him to make battle with God’s people, and to overcome them; and power was given to him over every tribe, and people, and language, and nation.) 
And all men worshipped it, that dwell in earth, whose names be not written in the book of life of the lamb, that was slain from the beginning of the world. (And everyone shall worship it, who live on the earth, whose names be not written in the Lamb’s Book of Life, from the creation of the world, yea,the Lamb who was killed.) 
If any man hath ears, hear he. 
He that leadeth into captivity, shall go into captivity; he that slayeth with (the) sword, it behooveth him to be slain with (the) sword. This is the patience and the faith of (the) saints (or This is the endurance and the faithfulness of God’s people). 
And I saw another beast ascending up from the earth, and it had two horns, like the lamb; and it spake as the dragon, (And I saw another beast going up from the earth, and it had two horns, like the Lamb; but it spoke like the dragon,) 
and it did all the power of the former beast, in his sight. And it made the earth, and (the) men dwelling in it, to worship the first beast, whose wound of death was cured or was healed. 
And it did great signs (or great miracles), (so) that also it made fire to come down from (the) heaven(s) to the earth, in the sight of all men. 
And it deceiveth men, that dwell in (the) earth (or who live on the earth), for (the) signs which be given to it to do in the sight of the beast; saying to men that dwell in earth (or saying to those who live on the earth), that they (should) make an image of the beast, that hath the wound of a sword, and lived. 
And it was given to him, that he should give a spirit (or breath) to the image of the beast, and that the image of the beast speak. And he shall make, that whoever honour not the image of the beast, be slain. 
And he shall make all, small and great, rich and poor, free men and bondmen, to have a character, either(a)mark, in (or on) their right hand, either in (or on) their foreheads; 
(so) that no man may buy, either sell, no but they have the character (or unless they have the mark), either the name of the beast, either the number of his name. 
Here is wisdom; he that hath understanding, acount the number of the beast; for it is the number of man, and his number is six hundred sixty and six. 
