WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
Chapter 8.
Therefore wisdom stretcheth forth from the end till to the end strongly, and disposeth all things sweetly. 
I loved this wisdom madeor This I loved, and I sought it out from my youth; and I sought to take it (as) a spousess to me, and I am made a lover of the fairness thereof or of the form of it. 
He that hath the fellowship of God, glorifieth the gentleness thereof or It having the company of God, glorifieth the gentleness of it; but also the Lord of all things loved it. 
For it is the teacheress of the learning or of the discipline of God, and chooseress of his works. 
And if riches be coveted or be desired in life, what is richer than wisdom, that worketh all things? 
Soothly if wit worketh, who is a craftsmaker or craftsman more than wisdom, of these things that be? 
And if a man loveth rightfulness or rightwiseness, the travails of this wisdom have great virtues; for it teach-eth soberness, and prudence, and right-fulness or rightwiseness, and virtue; and nothing is profitabler or more profitable than these in life to men. 
And if a man desireth (a) multi-tude of cunning (or much knowing), wisdom knoweth things (which have) passed, and guesseth of things to coming; it knoweth the fellnesses or falsenesses of words, and (the) assoil-ings of arguments; it knoweth signs and showings of things to coming, before that they be made or the tokens and wonders it knoweth, ere they be done; and the befallings or chances of times and of worlds. 
Therefore I purposed to bring to me this wisdom, to live together (with me); witting that it shall commune with me of goods (or about good things), and speaking together of (or about) my thought(s), and of mine annoyances, (or about my troubles), shall be. 
For this wisdom I shall have clear-ness at (or with) companies (or crowds), and honour at (or with the) elder men; 
I shall be found young and sharp in doom (or in judgement), and in the sight of mighty men I shall be won-derful, and the faces of princes shall worship me or shall marvel (at) me. 
They shall abide me, being still, and they shall behold me, speaking; and the while I speak many things, they shall set (their) hands on their mouth(s). 
Furthermore by this wisdom I shall have undeadliness (or immortality); and I shall leave everlasting mind to them, that shall come after me. 
I shall dispose peoples; and nations shall be subject to me. 
Hideous kings hearing me shall dread (or fear); and in (the) multitude I shall be seen good, and strong in battle. 
I shall enter into mine house, and I shall rest with wisdom; for the conversation thereof hath no bitter-ness, and the dwelling together thereof hath none annoyance (or troubles), but gladness and joy. 
I thought these things at (or with-in) me, and I remembered in mine heart; for why wisdom is undeadly (or immortal) in thought, 
and good delighting is in the friendship thereof; and honesty (or honour) without default is in the works of (the) hands thereof or and in the works of the hands of it honesty without failing; and wisdom is in the strife of (the) speech thereof; and great clearness is in the communing of (the) words thereof; I went about, seeking to take wisdom to me. 
Forsooth I was a witty child, and I got a good soul. 
And when I was more good, I came to a body undefouled. 
And as I knew, that else I may not be chaste or continent, no but God give it, and this same thing was wisdom, to know whose this gift was; I went to the Lord, and I besought him, and I said, of (or with) all mine entrails of mine heart. 
