NUMBERS.
Chapter 10.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Make to thee two silver trumps (or Make for thyself two silver trumpets), beaten out with hammers, by which thou mayest call together the multitude, when the tents shall be moved. 
And when thou shalt sound with trumps, all the company shall be gathered to thee at the door of the tabernacle of the bond of peace. (And when thou shalt sound with the trumpets, all the multitude shall be gathered to thee at the entrance to the Tabernacle of the Covenant.) 
If thou shalt trump with one trump, the princes and the chief men of the multitude of Israel shall come to thee; (If thou shalt sound with one trumpet, the leaders who be the chief men of the multitude of Israel shall come to thee;) 
but if a longer, and a parted trumping of two trumps shall sound, they that be at the east coast shall move their tents first (or then they who be on the east side shall move their tents first). 
Forsooth in the second sounding, and in like noise of the trump, they that dwell at the south coast shall raze their tents (or they who live on the south side shall take down their tents); and by this manner, (the) other men shall (also) do (so), when the trumps shall sound into going forth. 
Forsooth when the people shall be gathered together, (a) simple cry of trumps shall be, and the trumps shall not sound partingly. (And when the people should gather together, there shall be a simple cry of the trumpets, and they shall not sound separately.) 
The sons of Aaron, the priest(s), shall sound with the trumps, and this shall be a lawful thing everlasting in your generations (or and this shall be an everlasting law in all your generations). 
If ye shall go out of your land to battle against the enemies that fight against you, ye shall cry with trumps sounding, and the bethinking of you shall be before your Lord God, that ye be delivered from the hands of your enemies. (If ye shall go out of your land to do battle against the enemies who fight against you, ye shall cry with sounding trumpets, and then the remembrance of you shall be before the Lord your God, and ye shall be delivered from the hands of your enemies.) 
If any time ye shall have a feast, and holidays, and calends, that is, the first day of the month, ye shall sing in trumps upon the burnt sacrifices, and the peaceable sacrifices, that those be to you into remembering of your God; I am your Lord God. (And at the times that ye have feasts, and holidays, and calends, that is, the first day of the month, ye shall sing with trumpets over the burnt sacrifices, and the peace offerings, so that they bring forth a remembrance of you before your God; I am the Lord your God.) 
In the second year, in the second month, in the twentieth day of the month, the cloud was raised up from the tabernacle of the bond of peace. (Now in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, the cloud lifted up from the Tabernacle of the Covenant.) 
And the sons of Israel went forth by their companies from the desert of Sinai; and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran. (And the Israelites went forth by their companies from the Sinai Desert; and the cloud stopped in the wilderness of Paran.) 
And the sons of Judah by their companies, of which the prince was Nahshon (or of whom the leader was Nahshon), the son of Amminadab, 
moved first tents, by the Lord’s commandment, made in the hand of Moses. (moved their tents first, at the Lord’s command, spoken by Moses.) 
In the lineage of the sons of Issachar the prince was Nethaneel, the son of Zuar. 
In the lineage of (the sons of) Zebulun the prince was Eliab, the son of Helon. 
And the tabernacle was taken down, which the sons of Gershon and Merari bare, and they went forth. 
And (then) the sons of Reuben went forth by their companies and order, of which the prince was Elizur, the son of Shedeur. 
Forsooth in the lineage of the sons of Simeon the prince was Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai. 
Soothly in the lineage of (the sons of) Gad the prince was Eliasaph, the son of Deuel. 
And the sons of Kohath went forth, and bare the saintuary; and they raised the tabernacle till to the coming of them. (And then the sons of Kohath went forth, carrying the sacred vessels; and the Tabernacle was set up by the time that they had arrived.) 
Also the sons of Ephraim, by their companies, moved their tents, in whose host the prince was Elishama, the son of Ammihud. (And then the sons of Ephraim, by their companies, moved their tents, in whose army the leader was Elishama, the son of Ammihud.) 
Forsooth in the lineage of the sons of Manasseh the prince was Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur. 
And in the lineage of (the sons of) Benjamin the duke was Abidan, the son of Gideoni. (And in the tribe of Benjamin the leader was Abidan, the son of Gideoni.) 
(And) The sons of Dan, by their companies, went forth the last of all the tents, in whose host the prince was Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai. 
Soothly in the lineage of the sons of Asher the prince was Pagiel, the son of Ocran. 
And in the lineage of the sons of Naphtali the prince was Ahira, the son of Enan. 
These be the tents and the goings forth of the sons of Israel, by their companies, when they went forth. 
And Moses said to Hobab, the son of Raguel, of Midian, his ally, either, (or the) father of his wife, We (shall) go forth to the place which the Lord shall give to us; come thou with us, that we do well to thee, (or come thou with us, and we shall treat thee well), for the Lord hath promised good things to Israel. 
To whom he answered, I shall not go with thee, but I shall turn again into my land, in which I was born. (To whom he answered, I shall not go with thee, but I shall return to my own land, where I was born.) 
And Moses said, Do not thou forsake us, for thou knowest in which places we ought to set tents (or for thou knowest where it is best for us to pitch our tents), and thou shalt be our leader; 
and when thou shalt come with us, whatever thing shall be (the) best of the riches that the Lord shall give to us, we shall give to thee. 
And therefore they went forth from the hill of the Lord the way of three days; and the ark of the bond of peace of the Lord went before them, by those three days, and purveyed the places of their tents. (And so they went forth from Mount Sinai, the Lord’s mountain, the way of three days; and the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, that is, the Ark of the Witnessing, always went ahead of them, to find a good place for their tents.) 
And the cloud of the Lord was upon, or over, them by day, when they went forth. 
And when the ark was raised (up), Moses said, Rise thou (up), Lord, and thine enemies be scattered, and they that hate thee, flee from thy face; 
forsooth when the ark was put down, he said, Lord, turn again to the multitude of the host of Israel. (and when the Ark was put down, he said, O Lord, return to the multitudes of Israel’s armies!) 
