PSALMS.
Chapter 115.
(Alleluia.) Lord, not to us, Lord, not to us; but give thou glory to thy name. Of thy mercy, and of thy truth; (Alleluia. Lord, not to us, Lord, not to us; but give thou glory to thy name. For thy love, and for the sake of thy faithfulness;) 
lest any time heathen men say, Where is the God of them? (lest any time the heathen say, Where is their God?) 
Forsooth our God in heaven; did all things, whichever he would. (For our God is in heaven; and he doeth whatever he desireth.) 
The simulacra of heathen men be silver and gold (or The idols of the heathen be made out of silver and gold); the works of men’s hands. 
They have mouth(s), and shall not speak; they have eyes, and shall not see. (They have mouths, but they cannot speak; they have eyes, but they cannot see.) 
They have ears, and shall not hear; they have nostrils, and shall not smell. (They have ears, but they cannot hear; they have nostrils, but they cannot smell.) 
They have hands, and shall not grope; they have feet, and shall not go; they shall not cry in their throat. (They have hands, but they cannot feel; they have feet, but they cannot move; and they cannot make any sound.) 
They that make those simulacra be made like those; and all that trust in them. (Let all who make those idols be made like them; and also all who trust in them.) 
The house of Israel hoped in the Lord; he is the helper of them, and the defender of them. (But let the house of Israel trust in the Lord; he is their helper, and their defender.) 
The house of Aaron hoped in the Lord; he is the helper of them, and the defender of them. (And let the house of Aaron trust in the Lord; he is their helper, and their defender.) 
They that dread the Lord, hoped in the Lord; he is the helper of them, and the defender of them. (Let all who fear the Lord or Let all who revere the Lord, trust in the Lord; he is their helper, and their defender.) 
The Lord was mindful of us; and blessed us. He blessed the house of Israel; he blessed the house of Aaron. (The Lord remembereth us; and will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron.) 
He blessed all men that dread the Lord; both little and greater. (He will bless all those who fear the Lord or all those who revere the Lord; both small and great alike.) 
The Lord add, either increase, on you; on you, and on your sons. (May the Lord give you increase; yea, you, and your sons and your daughters.) 
Blessed be ye of the Lord; that made heaven and earth. (May ye be blessed by the Lord; who made heaven and earth.) 
Heaven of heaven is to the Lord/Heaven of heavens to the Lord; but he gave the earth to the sons of men. (Heaven and the heavensbe the Lord’s; but he gave the earth to the sons and daughters of men.) 
Lord, not dead men shall praise thee; neither all men that go down into hell. (Lord, the dead shall not praise thee; yea, none who go down into Sheol, or the land of the dead, or none who go down into the grave.) 
But we that live, bless the Lord; from this time now, and till into the world. (But we who live, bless the Lord; from this time now, and forever.) 
