2ND MACCABEES.
Chapter 10.
Forsooth Maccabeus, and they that were with him, for the Lord defended them, received soothly the temple, and (the) city. 
Forsooth he destroyed the altars, that aliens made by (or in)(the) streets, and also the temples of washing. 
And when the temple was purged, they made another altar, and of stones fired, or flints, by fire conceived, they offered sacrifices after two years, and putted incense, and lanterns, and loaves of proposition. 
And when these things were done, they were cast down to (the) earth, and prayed the Lord, that they should no more fall into such evils; but though in anytime they had sinned, that they should be chastised of (or by) him more easily, and should not be betaken to barbarians, or heathen, and blasphemous men. 
Forsooth in what day the temple was defouled of (or by)(the) aliens, it befell that in the same day cleansing was made, in the five and twentieth day of the month, that was Kislev. 
And with gladness in (or for) eight days they did by manner of (the Feast of) Tabernacles, bethinking that before a little of time they had done the solemn day of Tabernacles, in hills and in dens, by (the) custom of beasts. 
For which thing they bare before rods, and green branches, and palms, to him that gave prosperity for to cleanse his place. 
And they deemed with common behest (or command), and with doom, to all the folk of (the) Jews, for to do these feast days in all years. 
And the ending of (the) life of Antiochus, that was called noble, (or Epiphanes), had it thus. 
Now forsooth we shall tell of Eupator, son of unpious Antiochus (or And now we shall tell of Antiochus Eupator, who was the son of this unpious man), what things were done, and abridge, or shortly tell, the evils that were done in battles. 
For when this Eupator had received the realm, he ordained on (or over)(the) needs of the realm a man (called) Lysias, prince of knight-hood, of Phenice and (Celo)Syria (or the governor of Phoenicia and Greater Syria). 
For why Ptolemy, that was said (or called) Macron, ordained for to hold just things against (or unto)(the) Jews, and most(ly) for (the) wicked-ness that was done against them, and peaceably for to do with them. 
But for this thing he was accused of (or by)(the king’s) friends with (or before) Eupator, when he heard often, Thou traitor, for that he had forsaken Cyprus, betaken to him of (or by) Philometor, and had translated to Antiochus noble (or Epiphanes), also he had gone away from him, (and) with venom he ended the life. 
Forsooth Gorgias, when he was duke of places, with comelings taken, overcame often (the) Jews in battle. 
Forsooth (the) Jews that held covenable strengths (or strongholds), received men driven from Jerusalem, and assayed, either attempted, for to fight. 
These forsooth that were with Maccabeus, prayed the Lord by prayers, that he should be (a) helper to them, and they made (an) assault into (the) strengths of (the) Idumeans. 
And they were busy by much strength, and wielded places, and slew men running again, and strangled all together, not less than five and twenty thousands. 
Forsooth when some fled together into two towers full strong, having all apparel to against-fight, 
Maccabeus left Simon, and Joseph, and again Zacchaeus, and them that were with them (or with him), many enough, to the overcoming of them; and he was converted or turned again to those battles that constrained more. 
Soothly these that were with Simon, were led by covetousness, and were counselled by money, of (or by) some that were in the towers; and when they had taken seventy thousand double drachmas, they let some to flee out. 
Forsooth when that thing that was done, was told to Maccabeus, he gathered the princes of (the) people, and he accused (them), that they had sold (their) brethren for money, for they delivered or dismissed(or had freed)(the) adversaries of them. 
Therefore he slew these (men) made traitors, and anon (or at once) occupied the two towers. 
Forsooth in doing all things weal-somely, either by prosperity, in arms, and hands, he slew in the two strengths more than twenty thousands. 
And Timothy (or Timotheus), that before was overcome of (or by)(the) Jews, called or gathered together an host of strange (or foreign) multitude, and gathered the multitude of horse-men of Asia, and came with arms (or weapons), as to take Judea. 
Forsooth Maccabeus, and they that were with him, when he nighed, besought God, and besprinkled the(ir) head(s) with earth, and before-girded the(ir) loins with hair-shirts, 
and kneeled down at the brink of the altar, (so) that he should be helpful to them, forsooth that to (the) enemies of them he were (an) enemy, and were (an) adversary to (their) adversaries, as the law saith. 
And so after (the) prayer, when they had taken arms, they went forth far from the city, and they were made next to (their) enemies, and sat (waiting). 
Forsooth in (or at) the first rising of the sun, both joined battle; these soothly had the Lord (as a) promiser of victory and prosperity; for they had hardiness (as) the duke of (the) battle. 
But when (the) great fight was, five fair man, that is, angels in the likeness of men, on horses with golden bridles, appeared to (the) adversaries from heaven, and gave leading to (the) Jews; 
of which twain or of whom two had Maccabeus in the middle, and set about with their armours or arms, and kept him sound, either without harm. Forsooth they casted darts and lightnings against (the) adversaries; of which thing and they were shamed or confused with blindness, and were full-filled with perturbation, and fell down. 
Forsooth there were slain of foot-men twenty thousand and five hundred, and horsemen six hundred. 
Soothly Timothy (or Timotheus) fled into the stronghold or a strong-hold of Gazara, of which stronghold Chereas was sovereign. 
Forsooth Maccabeus, and they that were with him, were glad, and besieged the stronghold by four days. 
And they that were within, trusted in the secureness of the place, and cursed above manner, and casted, or proudly pronounced, cursed words, that is, blasphemy against God. 
But when the fifth day shined, twenty young men of these that were with Maccabeus, were kindled in (their) souls for (the) blasphemy, and went manly to the wall, and they went with fierce will, and went up; 
but and others also ascended or going up, and assailed for to burn (the) towers and (the) gates, and (al)together burn the cursers quick (or alive). Forsooth by continual two days they wasted the stronghold, 
and slew Timothy, hiding himself, found in some place; and they slew his brother Chereas, and Apollophanes. 
When these things were done, they blessed the Lord in (or with) hymns and confessions, which (or who) did great things in Israel, and gave them (the) victory. 
