1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 11.
Be ye my followers, as I am of Christ. (Be followers of me, like I am of the Messiah.) 
And, brethren, I praise you, that by all things ye be mindful of me; and as I betook to you my commandments, ye hold (onto them), or ye keep (them). (And, brothers, I praise you, because ye always remember me; and as I delivered to you my teachings, ye follow and obey them.) 
But I will that ye know, that Christ is the head of each man; but the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God. (But I desire that ye know, that the Messiah is the head of every man; and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of the Messiah is God.) 
Each man praying, or prophesying, when his head is covered, defouleth his head (or defileth his head). 
But each woman praying, or prophesying, when her head is not covered, defouleth her head (or defileth her head); for it is one (or for it is such), as if she were polled, or if she were made bald, or clipped. 
And if a woman be not covered or veiled, be she polled; and if it is (a) foul thing to a woman to be polled, or to be made bald, (or and if it is a foul thing for a woman to be clipped, or to be cropped, or to be made bald), cover she her head. 
But a man shall not cover his head, for he is the image and (the) glory of God; but a woman is the glory of man. 
For a man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man. 
And the man is not made for the woman, but the woman for the man. 
Therefore the woman shall have a covering on her head, (and) also (out of regard) for (the) angels. (And so the woman shall have a covering upon her head, out of respect for the angels.) 
Nevertheless neither the man is without the woman, neither the woman is without the man, in the Lord. 
For why as the woman is of the man, so the man is by the woman; but all things be of God. 
Deem ye yourselves (or You yourselves judge); beseemeth it or becometh it(for) a woman not covered on the head to pray to God? 
Neither the kind itself teacheth us that(or Neither nature itself teacheth us that), for if a man nourish long hair, it is (a) shame to him; 
but if a woman nourish long hair, it is (a) glory to her, for hairs be given to her for covering. 
But if any man is seen to be full of strife (or And if anyone is seen to be always arguing), we have none such custom, neither (hath) the church of God. 
But this thing I command, not praising, that ye come together not into the better, but into the worse. 
First for when ye come together into the church, I hear that dissensions, either partings, be, and in part I believe (it). 
For it behooveth heresies to be, (so) that they that be (ap)proved, be openly known in you. 
Therefore when ye come together into one, now it is not to eat the Lord’s supper; 
for why each man before taketh his supper to eat, and one is (still) hungry, and another is (now) drunken. 
Whether ye have not houses to eat and (to) drink (in), or ye (so) despise the church of God, and confound, or shame, them that have none or them that have not? What shall I say to you? I praise you, but herein I praise you not, or in this thing I praise you not. 
For I have taken of the Lord that thing, which I have betaken to you, (or For I have received from the Lord, that which I have delivered to you). For the Lord Jesus, in what night he was betrayed, took bread, 
and did thankings or graces, and brake (it), and said, Take ye, and eat ye; this is my body, which shall be betrayed for you; do ye this thing into my mind (or do this in remembrance of me). 
Also he took the cup, after that he had supped, and said, This cup is the new testament in my blood; do ye this thing, as oft as ye shall drink it, into my mind. (And (he took) the cup, after that he had supped, and said, This cup is the New Covenant sealed by my blood; do this, as often as ye shall drink (it), in remembrance of me.) 
For as oft as ye shall eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye shall tell the death of the Lord, till that he come, or ye shall show the death of the Lord, till he come. 
Therefore whoever eateth the bread, or drinketh the cup of the Lord unworthily, he shall be guilty of the body and of the blood of the Lord. 
But prove a man himself, and so eat he of that bread, and drink he of the cup. 
For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh doom, or damnation, (or judgement), (un)to himself, not wisely deeming the body of the Lord. 
Therefore among you many be sick and feeble or unstrong, and many sleep, or die. (And so among you there be many who be frail and weak, and many who have died.) 
And if we deemed wisely us-selves, we should not be deemed; (And if we wisely judged ourselves, then we would not be judged or come under God’s judgement;) 
but while we be deemed of the Lord (or but when we be judged by the Lord), we be chastised, (so) that we be not condemned with this world. 
Therefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, abide ye together. (And so, my brothers, when ye come together to eat, wait for one another.) 
If any man hungereth, eat he at home, that ye come not together into doom (or so that ye do not come together under judgement). And I shall dispose other things, when I come. 
