ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 39.
and they give their soul, and they ask together or together seeking in the law of the Highest. A wise man shall seek out the wisdom of all (the) eld or old men; and he shall give attention in (or to the) prophets. 
He shall keep the telling(s) of (the) named men; and he shall enter (al)together into the hard sentences or the slynesses of parables. 
He shall seek out the privy things of proverbs; and he shall be conver-sant in the hid things of parables. 
He shall minister in the midst of great men; and he shall appear in the sight of the chief judge. He shall pass into the land of alien folks; for he shall assay goods, and evils in all things. 
He shall give his heart to wake early to the Lord that made him; and he shall beseech in the sight of the Highest. He shall open his mouth in prayer; and he shall beseech for his trespasses. 
For if the great Lord will (or desire to), he shall fill him with the spirit of understanding. And he shall send the words of his wisdom, as rains; and in prayer he shall acknowl-edge to the Lord. 
And he, that is, the Lord, shall (ad)dress (or direct) his counsel, and teaching; and shall counsel in his hid things. 
He shall make open the wisdom of his teaching; and he shall have glory in the law of the testament of the Lord. 
Many men shall praise his wisdom; and it shall not be done away till into the world. His mind shall not go away or The memory of him shall not go away; and his name shall be sought from generation into generation. 
Folks shall tell out his wisdom; and the church shall tell out his praising. 
If his name dwelleth, he shall leave more than a thousand; and if he resteth, it shall profit to him. 
Yet I shall take counsel to tell out, for I am full-filled as with madness; and mine inner spirit saith in voice, 
Ye fruits of God, hear me, and make ye fruit, as roses planted on (or by) the rivers of waters. 
Have ye odour of sweetness, as the Lebanon hath. Bring forth flowers, as a lily; give ye odour, and make ye boughs into grace. And praise ye together a song; and bless ye the Lord in his works. 
Give ye great honour to his name, and acknowledge ye to him in the voice of your lips, in songs of lips, and in harps; and thus ye shall say in acknowledging, 
All the works of the Lord be full good. 
Forsooth water as an heap of stones stood at his word; and as receptacles of waters in the word of his mouth. 
For why peaceableness is made in his commandment; and no default or less(en)ing is in the health of him, that is, in (the) saving made by him. 
The works of each or all flesh be before him; and nothing is hid from his eyes. 
He beholdeth from the world till into the world; and nothing is won-derful or is marvellous in his sight. 
It is not to say, What is this thing, either, What is that thing? for why all things shall be sought in their time. 
The blessing of him shall flow as a flood; 
and as the great flood filled greatly the earth, so his ire or wrath shall inherit in folks, that sought not him. 
As he turned waters into dryness-es or into drought, and the earth was dried, and his ways were (ad)dressed (or directed) to the ways of them; so offensions (or stumbling blocks) in his ire or in (his) wrathbe (ad) dressed (or directed) to sinners. 
Good things were made at the beginning to (or for) good men; so good things and evil be made to (or for) worst men. 
The beginning of needful or necessary thing(s) to the life of men, (be) water, fire, and iron, and salt, and milk, and bread of clean or tried flour of wheat, and honey, and a cluster of grape(s), and oil, and cloth(es)or clothing. 
All these things shall turn to holy men into goods; so and to unfaithful or unpious men and to sinners into evils. 
Spirits be that be made or formed to (or for) vengeance; and in their madness they confirmed their torments. And in the time of ending they shall shed or pour out virtue; and they shall confound (or confuse) the strong vengeance of him that made them. 
Fire, hail, hunger, and death; all these things be made or be formed to (or for) vengeance; 
the teeth of beasts, and scorpions, and serpents, and a sword punishing wicked men into destroying. 
In the commandments of him, those or they shall eat, and those or they shall be made ready on the earth in need; and in their times those or they shall not (over)-pass one word. 
Therefore from the beginning I was confirmed (or certain); and I counselled, and thought, and left (it all) written (down). 
All the works of the Lord be good; and each work shall serve in his (or its) hour. 
It is not to say, This is worse than that; for why all things shall be (ap)proved in their time. 
And now in all the heart and mouth praise ye together, and bless ye the name of the Lord. 
