2ND THESSALONIANS.
Chapter 3.
Brethren, from henceforward pray ye for us, that the word of God run, and be clarified (or and be glorified), as it is with you; 
and that we be delivered from noxious (or harmful) and evil men; for faith is not of (or in) all men. 
But the Lord is true, that shall confirm you, and shall keep us from evil. 
And, brethren, we trust of you in the Lord, for whatever things we command to you, both ye do and shall do. 
And the Lord (ad)dress your hearts, in the charity of God, and in the patience of Christ. (And the Lord direct your hearts, in the love of God, and in the endurance of the Messiah.) 
But, brethren, we announce to you in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw you(rselves) from each brother that wandereth out of order, or against good order, and not after the teaching, that they received of us. (But, brothers, we command you in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from each brother who walketh, or who goeth, out of order, or against good order, and not after the teaching, that they received from us.) 
For ye yourselves know, how it behooveth to (pur)sue us (or how it behooveth to follow us). For we were not unpeaceable or unquiet among you, 
neither without our own travail, we ate bread of any man, but in travail and weariness wrought night and day, that we grieved none of you. (nor without our own work, did we eat anyone’s bread, but with labour and in weariness worked night and day, so that we grieved none of you.) 
Not as we had not power, but that we should give us-selves ensample to you to (pur)sue us. (Not as though we did not have the power, but so that we could give ourselves as an example for you to follow.) 
For also when we were among you, we announced (or we commanded) this thing to you, that if any man will not work, neither eat he. 
For we have heard that some among you go unrestfully, or unquietly, or unpeaceably, and nothing work, but do curiously. 
But we announce (or command) to them that be such men, and beseech in the Lord Jesus Christ, that they work with silence, and eat their own bread. 
But do not ye, brethren, fail well-doing. 
(So) That if any man obey not to our word sent by (this) epistle, mark ye him, and commune ye not with him, (so) that he be ashamed; 
and do not ye guess him as an enemy, but reprove ye him as a brother. (but do not think of him like an enemy, but rebuke him like a brother.) 
And God himself of peace give to you everlasting peace in all place(s). The Lord be with you all. 
My salutation by the hand of Paul; which sign in each epistle I write thus. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
