JOB.
Chapter 17.
My spirit shall be made feeble; my days shall be made short, and only the sepulchre is left to me. (My breath shall be made weak; my days shall be made short, and only the grave, or a tomb, is left to me.) 
I have not sinned, and mine eye dwelleth in bitternesses. (I have not sinned, and yet I see their bitterness toward me.) 
Lord, deliver thou me, and set me beside thee; and the hand of each man fight against me. (Lord, save thou me, and put me beside thee; then let someone try to fight against me!) 
Thou hast made the heart of them far from doctrine, that is, (far) from knowing of (the) truth; therefore they shall not be enhanced (or and so thou shalt not let them triumph). 
He promiseth prey to his fellows, and the eyes of his sons shall fail (or yet the eyes of his sons shall fail). 
He hath set me as into a proverb of the common people, and his ensample before them. 
Mine eye dimmed at the indignation (or My eyes dimmed with grief); and my members be driven as into nought. 
Just men shall wonder on this thing; and an innocent shall be raised up against an hypocrite. 
And a just man shall hold his way, and he shall add strength to clean hands. (The righteous shall hold to their way, and he who hath clean hands shall be made even stronger.) 
Therefore all ye be turned again, and come ye; and I shall not find in you any wise man. (And so come now, let all of you try again; for thus far, I have not found a wise man among you.) 
My days be passed; my thoughts be scattered, tormenting mine heart. 
Those have turned the night into day; and again after darknesses hope (for) light. (They have turned the night into day; and then again after darkness, hope for some light.) 
If I sustain, either suffer patiently, hell is mine house; and I have arrayed my bed in darknesses. (If I endure, Sheol, or the grave, shall be my house; and I shall array my bed in darkness.) 
I said to rot (or And I shall say to rot), Thou art my father; and to worms, Ye be my mother, and my sister. 
Therefore where is now mine abiding? and who beholdeth my patience? 
All my things shall go down into the deepest hell; guessest thou, whether rest shall be to me, namely there. (All my thoughts shall go down into Sheol; thinkest thou, that there shall be any rest for me there?) 
