LUKE.
Chapter 17.
And Jesus said to his disciples, It is impossible that causes of stumbling come not; but woe to that man, by whom they come. 
It is more profitable to him, if a millstone be put about his neck, and he be cast into the sea, than that he cause to stumble one of these little (ones). 
Take ye heed to yourselves; if thy brother hath sinned against thee, blame him; and if he do penance, forgive him. (Keep watch over yourselves; if thy brother hath sinned against thee, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him.) 
And if seven times in the day he do sin against thee, and seven times in the day he be converted to thee, and say, It forthinketh me, forgive thou him, (or and say, I repent, then forgive him). 
And the apostles said to the Lord, Increase to us faith, or Increase faith to us, (or Increase our faith). 
And the Lord said, If ye have faith as the corn or a corn of sinapi (or If ye have faith the size of a kernel, or a grain, of mustard seed), ye shall say to this (syca)more tree, Be thou drawn up by the root, and be over-planted into the sea or and be thou planted over into the sea, and it shall obey to you. 
But who of you hath a servant earing, or pasturing oxen, which saith to him, when he turneth again from the field, Anon go, and sit to the meat; (But who of you hath a servant plowing, or pasturing oxen, who saith to him, when he returneth from the field, At once go, and sit down for your meal;) 
and saith not to him, Make ready, (so) that I (can) sup, and gird thee, and serve me, while I eat and drink, and after this thou shalt eat and drink; 
whether he hath grace to that servant (or shall he give thanks to that servant), for he did that that he commanded him? Nay, I guess. 
So also ye, when ye have done all (the) things that be commanded to you, say ye, We be unprofitable servants, we have done that that we ought to do. 
And it was done, the while Jesus went to Jerusalem, he passed through the midst of Samaria, and Galilee. 
And when he entered into a castle (or And when he entered into a village), ten leprous men came to meet him, which stood afar, 
and raised up their voice, and said, Jesus, Commander (or Master), have mercy on us. 
And as he saw them, he said, Go, show ye you(rselves) to the priests. And it was done, while they went, they were cleansed. 
And one of them, as he saw that he was cleansed, went again, magnifying God with a great voice. (And one of them, as soon as he saw that he was healed, returned to him, praising God with a loud voice.) 
And he fell down on the face before his feet, and did thankings, or doing graces, (or and giving thanks); and this was a Samaritan. 
And Jesus answered, and said, Whether ten be not cleansed (or Were ten not healed), and where be the (other) nine? 
There is none found, that turned again, and gave glory to God, but this alien or this stranger. (There is no one who returned, and gave glory to God, except this foreigner.) 
And he said to him, Rise up, go thou; for thy faith hath made thee safe, (or for thy faith hath saved thee, or thy faith hath healed thee). 
And he was asked of the Pharisees, when the realm of God cometh, (or And he was asked by the Pharisees, when the Kingdom of God would come). And he answered to them, and said, The realm of God cometh not with espying, 
neither they shall say, Lo! here, or lo! there; for lo! the realm of God is within you (or for behold! the Kingdom of God is within you). 
And he said to his disciples, Days shall come, when ye shall desire to see one day of man’s Son, and ye shall not see (it). 
And they shall say to you, Lo! here, and lo! there. Do not ye go, neither (pur)sue (them), (or Do not go out, nor follow after them); 
for as lightning shining from under (the) heaven(s) shineth into or on those things that be under (the) heaven(s), so shall man’s Son be in his day. 
But first it behooveth him to suffer many things, and to be reproved of this generation, (or and to be rebuked, or to be rejected, by this generation). 
And as it was done in the days of Noe (or of Noah), so it shall be in the days of man’s Son. 
They ate and drank, wedded wives, and were given to weddings, till into the day in which Noe (or Noah) entered into the ship; and the great flood came, and lost all, (or and then the great flood came, and destroyed everything). 
Also as it was done in the days of Lot, they ate and drank, bought and sold, planted and builded; 
but in the day that Lot went out of Sodom, the Lord rained (down) fire and brimstone from heaven, and lost all (or and destroyed everything). 
Like this thing it shall be or After this thing it shall be, in what day man’s Son shall be showed. (It shall be like that, on the day when man’s Son shall be revealed.) 
In that hour or In that day, he that is in the roof, (or At that time, he who is on the roof), and his vessels in the house, come he not down to take them away; and he that shall be in the field, also turn not again behind (or back). 
Be ye mindful of the wife of Lot. (Remember Lot’s wife.) 
Whoever seeketh to make his life safe, shall lose it; and whoever loseth it, shall quicken it, (or and whoever loseth it, shall save it, or shall preserve it). 
But I say to you, in that night two shall be in one bed, one shall be taken, and the other forsaken (or and the other left); 
two women shall be grinding together, the one shall be taken, and the other forsaken (or and the other left); 
two in a field, the one shall be taken, and the other left orforsaken. 
They answer, and say to him, Where, Lord? Which said to them, Wherever the body shall be, thither shall be gathered together also the eagles. They answering said to him, Where, Lord? Which said to him, Wherever the body shall be, also the eagles shall be gathered together thither. 
