MATTHEW.
Chapter 22.
And Jesus answered, and spake again in parables to them, and said, 
The kingdom of heavens is made like to a king that made weddings to his son. (The Kingdom of Heaven is like a king who gave a wedding for his son.) 
And he sent his servants to call men that were bidden to the weddings, and they would not come. 
Again he sent other servants, and said, Say to the men that be bidden to the feast, Lo! I have made ready my meat, (or Behold! I have prepared my food), my bulls and my volatiles, or my fat beasts, be slain, and all things be ready; come ye to the weddings. 
But they despised, and went forth, one into his town, another to his merchandise. Soothly they despised, or reckoned not, and they went away, one into his vineyard, forsooth another to his merchandise. 
But others held his servants, and tormented them, and slew them. 
But the king, when he had heard, was wroth; and he sent his hosts, and destroyed those man-quellers, and burnt their city. (But the king, when he had heard, was enraged; and he sent his army, or his soldiers, and destroyed those murderers, and burned down their city.) 
Then he said to his servants, The weddings be ready, but they that were called to the feast, were not worthy. 
Therefore go ye into the ends of ways, and whomever ye find, call ye to the weddings. 
And his servants went out into the ways, and gathered together all that they found, good and evil; and the bridal was or the weddings be full-filled with men sitting at the meat (or and the wedding feast was filled full with people come for the meal). 
And the king entered, to see men sitting at the meat (or to see those who had come for the meal); and he saw there a man not clothed with bride clothes or and he saw there a man not clothed with bridal clothes. 
And he said to him, Friend, how enteredest thou hither without bride clothes? And he was dumb (or And he did not answer). 
Then the king bade his ministers, or Then the king said to his ministers, (or Then the king said to his servants), Bind him both hands and feet, and send ye him into outer-more or uttermore darknesses; there shall be weeping, and grinding of teeth. 
For many be called, but few be chosen. 
Then (the) Pharisees went away, and took a counsel or took counsel to take Jesus in word. (Then the Pharisees went away, and made a plan to catch Jesus with his own words.) 
And they send to him their disciples, with (the) Herodians, and said, Master, we know, that thou art soothfast, and thou teachest in truth the way of God, and thou chargest or care(st) not of (or for) any man(’s opinion), for thou beholdest not the person of men. 
Therefore say to us, what seemeth to thee. Is it leaveful that tribute be given to the emperor, (yea) either nay? +or Is it leaveful that tribute be given to Caesar, rent, (yea) or nay?(or Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, yes or no?) 
And when Jesus had known the wickedness of them, he said, Hypocrites, what tempt ye me? (And when Jesus had perceived their malice, he said, Hypocrites, why do you test me? or why do you try to trap me?) 
Show ye to me the print of the money. And they brought to him a penny. 
And Jesus said to them, Whose is this image, and the writing above? (or Whose image is this, and the writing upon it?) 
They say to him, The emperor’s. Then he said to them, Therefore yield ye to the emperor those things that be the emperor’s, and to God those things that be of God. +They say to him, Of Caesar. Then he saith to them, Therefore yield ye to Caesar those things that be of Caesar/those things that be Caesar’s, and to God those things that be of God. 
And they heard, and wondered; and they left him, and went away. 
In that day (some) Sadducees, that say there is no rising again to life(or who say that there is no resurrection), came to him, and asked him, 
and said, Master, (or Teacher), Moses said, if any man is dead, not having a son, that his brother wed his wife, and raise seed to his brother. 
And there were seven brethren to us; and the first wedded a wife, and is dead. And he had no seed, and left his wife to his brother; 
also the second, and the third, till to the seventh. 
But the last of all, also the woman is dead. 
Also or Therefore in the rising again to life(or And so in the resurrection), whose wife of the seven shall she be? for all had her. 
Jesus answered, and said to them, Ye err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the virtue of God. (Jesus answered, and said to them, Ye err, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God.) 
For in the rising again to life(or For in the resurrection to life), neither they shall wed, neither shall be wedded; but they be as the angels of God in heaven. 
And of the rising again of dead men (or And about the resurrection of the dead), have ye not read, that it is said of the Lord, that saith to you, 
I am God of Abraham, and God of Isaac, and God of Jacob? he is not (the) God of dead men, but of living men, (or he is not the God of the dead, but of the living). 
And the people hearing, wondered on his teaching. 
And the Pharisees heard that he had put silence to (the) Sadducees, and came together (to him). 
And one of them, a teacher of the law, asked Jesus, and tempted him, (or and tested him, or and tried to trap him), 
Master, which is a great commandment in the law? (Teacher, which is the greatest, or the most important, commandment in the Law?) 
Jesus said to him, Thou shalt love thy Lord God or Thou shalt love the Lord thy God, of all thine heart, and in all thy soul, and in all thy mind. (Jesus said to him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God, with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.) 
This is the first and the most (important) commandment. (This is the first and the greatest commandment.) 
And the second is like to this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
In these two commandments hangeth all the law and the prophets. 
And when the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, 
and said, What seemeth to you of Christ (or What seemeth to you regarding the Messiah), whose son is he? They say to him, Of David. 
He saith to them, How then David in spirit calleth him Lord, and saith, (He said to them, How then did David by the Holy Spirit call him Lord, and say,) 
The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou on my right half, till I put thine enemies a stool of thy feet? (The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, or on my right side, until I make thine enemies thy footstool?) 
Then if David calleth him Lord, how (then) is he his son? 
And no man might answer a word to him, neither any man was hardy from that day (on), (or nor was any man bold enough from that day on), to ask him (anything) more. 
