APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 16.
And I heard a great voice from heaven, saying to the seven angels, Go ye, and shed out the seven vials of God’s wrath into the earth. (And I heard a loud voice from heaven, saying to the seven angels, Go, and pour out the seven basins, or the seven bowls, of God’s anger upon the earth.) 
And the first angel went, and shedded out his vial into the earth (or and poured out his bowl onto the earth); and a wound fierce and worst was made on all that had the character or the mark of the beast, and on them that worshipped the beast, and his image. 
And the second angel shedded out his vial into the sea, and the blood was made, as of a dead thing; and each man living was dead in the sea. (And the second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and it was made like blood, like from a dead thing; and each living thing in the sea died.) 
And the third angel shedded out his vial on the rivers, and on the wells of waters, and blood is made, (And the third angel poured out his bowl into the rivers, and into the springs of water, and they were made like blood,) 
and said or and I heard the angel of (the) waters saying, Just art thou, Lord, that art, and that were holy, that deemest these things; (and I heard the angel of the waters say, Thou art righteous, O holy Lord, who art, and who was, and who judgest these things;) 
for they shedded out the blood of (the) hallows, and (the) prophets, (or for they poured out the blood of the saints, or of God’s people, and of the prophets), and thou hast given to them blood to drink; for they be worthy. 
And I heard another angel saying, Yea! Lord God almighty, true and just be thy dooms. (And I heard another angel saying, Yea! Lord God Almighty! true and righteous (be) thy judgements.) 
And the fourth angel shedded out his vial into the sun (or And the fourth angel poured out his bowl onto the sun), and it was given to him to torment men with heat and fire. 
And men sweltered with great heat, and blasphemed the name of (the) God having power on these plagues, neither they did penance, that they should give glory to him. (And men were parched by the great heat, and blasphemed the name of the God who had power over these plagues, but they did not repent, so that they would give him glory.) 
And the fifth angel shedded out his vial on the seat of the beast (or And the fifth angel poured out his bowl onto the throne of the beast), and his kingdom was made dark; and they ate together their tongues for sorrow, 
and they blasphemed (the) God of heaven, for (the) sorrows of their wounds or for (their) sorrows and their wounds; and they did not penance of their works (or but they did not repent of their works). 
And the sixth angel shedded out his vial into that great river Euphrates, and dried the water of it, that the way were made ready to kings from the sun rising. (And the sixth angel poured out his bowl into the great Euphrates River, and dried up its water, so that a way was prepared for the kings of the east.) 
And I saw three unclean spirits by the manner of frogs go out of the mouth of the dragon, and (out) of the mouth of the beast, and (out) of the mouth of the false prophet. 
For they be (the) spirits of devils, making signs, or wonders, and they go forth to (the) kings of all (the) earth, to gather them into a battle, to the great day of almighty God. (For these be the spirits of demons, making miracles, and they go forth to the kings of all the earth, to gather them for the battle, on the Great Day of Almighty God.) 
Lo! I come, as a night thief. Blessed is he that waketh, and keepeth his clothes, that he wander not naked, and that they see not the filthhood of him. (Behold! I come, like a thief in the night. Blessed (is) he who watcheth, and keepeth his clothes on, so that he walk not, or go not naked, so that they do not see his nakedness.) 
And he shall gather them into a place or And he gathered them into a place, that is called in Hebrew Armageddon. 
And the seventh angel shedded out his vial into the air, and a great voice went out of heaven from the throne, and said, It is done. (And the seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a loud voice went out of heaven from the throne, and said, It is done.) 
And lightnings were made, and voices, and thunders; and a great earth-moving was made, which manner never was, since men were on (the) earth, such (an) earth-moving so great. (And there were lightning, and sounds, and thunder; and there was a great earthquake, like never before, since men were on the earth, yea, such a great earthquake.) 
And the great city was made or was broken into three parts, and the cities of (the) heathen men felled down; and great Babylon came into mind before God (or and the great Babylon came into God’s remembrance), to give to it the cup of wine of the indignation of his wrath. 
And each isle flew away, and (the) hills be not found. 
And a great hail as a talent came down from heaven into men; and men blasphemed God, for the plague of hail, for it was made full great. (And great hail like talents came down from the heavens onto men; and they blasphemed God, for the plague of hail, because it was so very great, or because it was so terribly severe.) 
