JOHN.
Chapter 8.
But Jesus went into the mount of Olivet. (And then Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.) 
And early again (the next morning) he came into the temple; and all the people came to him; and he sat, and taught them. 
And (the) scribes and (the) Pharisees brought a woman taken in adultery, and they setted her in the middle (or and they put her in the midst of everyone), 
and said to him, Master, this woman is now taken in adultery. (and said to him, Teacher, this woman was caught in adultery.) 
And in the law Moses commanded us to stone such; therefore what sayest thou? 
And they said this thing tempting (or to test) him, (so) that they might accuse him. And Jesus bowed himself down, and wrote with his finger in the earth (or and wrote on the ground with his finger). 
And when they abided or continued asking him, he raised himself (up), and said to them, He of you that is without sin, first cast a stone into her, (or He of you who is without sin, throw the first stone at her). 
And again he bowed down himself, and wrote in the earth (or and wrote on the ground). 
And they hearing these things, went away one after another, and they began from the elder men; and Jesus dwelt alone, and the woman standing in the middle. 
And Jesus raised himself (up), and said to her, Woman, where be they that accused thee? no man hath condemned thee. 
She said, No man, Lord. Jesus said to her, Neither I shall condemn thee; go thou, and now afterward do not thou (do) sin (any) more, or and now afterward do not thou sin, (or and hereafter, do not do any more sin). 
Therefore again Jesus spake to them, and said, I am the light of the world; he that (pur)sueth me, walketh not in (the) darknesses, (or he who followeth me, walketh not in the darkness), but shall have the light of life. 
Therefore the Pharisees said, Thou bearest witnessing of thyself; thy witnessing is not true. (And so the Pharisees said, Thou testifiest about thyself; thy testimony is not true.) 
Jesus answered, and said to them, And if I bear witnessing of myself, my witnessing is true, (or Jesus answered, and said to them, And if I testify about myself, then my testimony is true); for I know from whence I came, and whither I go. But ye know not from whence I came, nor whither I go. 
For ye deem after the flesh, but I deem no man; (For ye judge after the flesh, but I judge no man;) 
and if I deem, my doom is true, (or and if I judge, then my judgement is true), for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me. 
And in your law it is written, that the witnessing of two men is true. (And in your Law it is written, that the testimony of two men who agree is true.) 
I am, that bear witnessing of myself, and the Father that sent me, beareth witnessing of me. (I am he, who giveth testimony about myself, and the Father who sent me, also giveth testimony about me.) 
Therefore they said to him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Neither ye know me, nor ye know my Father; if ye knew me, peradventure ye should know also my Father. 
Jesus spake these words in the treasury, teaching in the temple; and no man took (hold of) him, for his hour came not yet, (or for his hour had not yet come, or for it was not yet his time). 
Therefore again Jesus said to them, Lo! I go, and ye shall seek me, and ye shall die in your sin; whither I go, ye may not come, (or where I go, ye cannot come). 
Therefore the Jews said, Whether he shall slay himself, for he saith, Whither I go, ye may not come? (And so the Jews said, Shall he kill himself, for he said, Where I go, ye cannot come?) 
And he said to them, Ye be of beneath, I am of above; ye be of this world, I am not of this world. 
Therefore I said to you, that ye shall die in your sins; for if ye believe not that I am, ye shall die in your sins. 
Therefore they said to him, Who art thou? Jesus said to them, The beginning, or the first of all thing(s), which I also speak to you, (or what I have told you). 
I have many things to speak, and to deem of you, but he that sent me is soothfast; and I speak in the world these things, that I heard of him. (I have many things to say, and to judge about you, and he who sent me is truthful; and I say in the world these things, that I heard from him.) 
And they knew not, that he called his Father God. (And they did not know or understand, that he called God his Father.) 
Therefore Jesus said to them, When ye have araised man’s Son, then ye shall know, that I am, and of myself I do nothing, (or When ye have raised up man’s Son, then ye shall know, what I am, and that by myself I can do nothing); but as my Father taught me, I speak these things. 
And he that sent me is with me, and left me not alone; for I do (for)evermore those things, that be pleasing to him, (or for I always do those things, that be pleasing to him). 
When he spake these things, many believed in him. 
Therefore Jesus said to the Jews, that believed in him, If ye dwell in my word, verily, ye shall be my disciples, (or If ye remain in my word, truly, ye shall be my disciples); 
and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. 
Therefore the Jews answered to him, We be the seed of Abraham, and we served never to (any) man, or and to no man we served ever, (or and we were never in servitude, or in slavery, to any man); how sayest thou, That ye shall be free? 
Jesus answered to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, (or Truly, I tell you the truth), each man that doeth sin, is the servant of sin. 
And the servant dwelleth not in the house into without end, but the Son dwelleth into without end. 
Therefore if the Son make you free, verily, ye shall be free. (And so if the Son shall make you free, truly, or in truth, ye shall be free.) 
I know that ye be Abraham’s sons, but ye seek to slay me, for my word taketh not (hold) in you. 
I speak those things, that I saw at my Father; and ye do those things, that ye saw at your father. 
They answered, and said to him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith to them, If ye be the sons of Abraham, (then) do ye the works of Abraham. 
But now ye seek to slay me, a man that have spoken to you the truth, that I heard of God (or that I heard from God); Abraham did not this thing. 
Ye do the works of your father. Therefore they said to him, We be not born of fornication; we have (but) one Father, God. 
But Jesus saith to them, If God were your Father, soothly ye should love me; for I passed forth of God, or forsooth I proceeded, or came forth, of God, and came (here); for neither I came of myself, but he sent me. (But Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, truly ye would love me, for I came forth from God, and came here; yea, I did not come here on my own accord, but he sent me.) 
Why know ye not my speech? for ye may not hear my word. (Why do ye not understand what I say? because ye cannot hear, or ye cannot listen to, my words.) 
Ye be of the father, the devil, and ye will do the desires of your father. He was a manslayer from the beginning, and he stood not in (the) truth; for (the) truth is not in him. When he speaketh leasing, he speaketh of his own; for he is a liar, and (the) father of it, (or When he speaketh lies, he speaketh his own language; for he is a liar, and the father of them). 
But for I say (the) truth, ye believe not to me. (But because I speak the truth, ye do not believe me.) 
Who of you shall reprove me of sin? if I say (the) truth, why believe ye not to me? (Who of you can prove me guilty of sin? or can convict me of sin? if I speak the truth, then why do ye not believe me?) 
He that is of God, heareth the words of God; therefore ye hear not, (or and so ye cannot hear, or and so ye will not listen), for ye be not of God. 
Therefore the Jews answered, and said to him, Whether we say not well (or Do we not rightly, or correctly, say), that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil? 
Jesus answered, and said, I have not a devil, but I honour my Father, and ye have unhonoured me. (Jesus answered, and said, I do not have a devil, or I am not possessed, and I honour my Father, but ye dishonour me.) 
For I seek not my glory; there is he, that seeketh, and deemeth. (Because I do not seek my own glory; but there is He, who seeketh it, and judgeth for me.) 
Truly, truly, I say to you, if any man keep my word(s), he shall not taste death into without end. (Truly, I tell you the truth, if any man obey my words, he shall never taste death or he shall never die.) 
Therefore the Jews said, Now we have known, that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets, and thou sayest, If any man keep my word(s), (or If any man obey my words), he shall not taste death into without end. 
Whether thou art greater than our father Abraham, that is dead, and the prophets be dead; whom makest thou thyself? 
Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nought, (or then my glory, or my boasting, is nothing); my Father is, that glorifieth me, whom ye say, that he is your God. 
And ye have not known him, but I have known him; and if I say that I know him not, I shall be a liar like to you; but I know him, and I keep his word(s), (or and I obey his words). 
Abraham, your father, gladded or full out joyed to see my day; and he saw (it), and joyed. (Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day; yea, he saw it, and rejoiced.) 
Then the Jews said to him, Thou hast not yet fifty years, and hast thou seen Abraham? 
Therefore Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, (or Truly, I tell you the truth), before that Abraham should be, I am, or before that Abraham was made, I am. 
Therefore they took stones, to cast to him (or to throw at him); but Jesus hid him(self), and went out of the temple. 
