MATTHEW.
Chapter 28.
But in (the hour after) the eventide of the sabbath, or (the) holiday, that beginneth to shine in the first day of the week (or that beginneth to shine on the first day of the week), Mary Magdalene came, and another Mary (or and the other Mary), to see the sepulchre. 
And lo! there was made a great earth-shaking; for the angel of the Lord came down from heaven, and nighed, and turned away the stone, and sat thereon. (And behold! there was a great earthquake; for the angel of the Lord came down from heaven, and approached, and rolled away the stone, and then sat on it.) 
And his looking was as lightning, and his clothes (were as)white as snow; 
and for dread of him the keepers were afeared, and they were made as dead men. (and the guards were greatly afraid of him, and they were made like dead men.) 
But the angel answered, and said to the women, Do not ye dread (or Do not fear), for I know that ye seek Jesus, that was crucified; 
he is not here, for he is risen, as he said (he would be); come ye, and see ye the place, where the Lord was laid. 
And (now) go ye soon, and say ye to his disciples, that he is risen. And lo! he shall go before you into Galilee; there ye shall see him. Lo! I have before-said to you. 
And they went out soon from the burials or from the sepulchre, with dread, and great joy, running to tell to his disciples. (And they went out quickly from the tomb, with fearful reverence, and great joy, running to tell his disciples.) 
And lo! Jesus met them, and said, Hail ye. And they nighed or And they came to (him), and held his feet, and worshipped him. 
Then Jesus said to them, Do not ye dread (or Do not fear); go ye, tell ye to my brethren, that they (should) go into Galilee; there they shall see me. 
And when they were gone, lo! some of the keepers came into the city, and told to the princes of (the) priests all (the) things that were done. (And when they were gone, behold! some of the guards came into the city, and told the high priests all the things that were done, or about everything that had happened.) 
And when they were gathered together with the elder men, and had taken their counsel, they gave to the knights much money, (And when they were gathered together with the elders, and had made their plan, they gave the soldiers a lot of money,) 
and said, Say ye, that his disciples came by night, and have stolen him, while ye slept. 
And if this be heard of the justice or of the president, we shall counsel him, and make you secure. (And if this be heard by the Governor, we shall talk with him, and keep you safe.) 
And when the money was taken, they did, as they were taught, (or they did, as they were told). And this word is published among the Jews, till into this day. 
And the eleven disciples went into Galilee, into an hill (or up onto a hill), where Jesus had ordained to them. 
And they saw him, and worshipped (him); but some of them doubted. 
And Jesus came nigh, and spake to them, and said, All power in heaven and in earth is given to me. 
Therefore go ye, and teach all folks, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost; (And so go, and teach all the nations and all the peoples, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit;) 
teaching them to keep all (the) things, whatever things I have commanded to you; and lo! I am with you in all days, into the end of the world. (teaching them to obey everything, whatever I have commanded to you; and behold! I am with you always, unto the end of the world.) 
