PSALMS.
Chapter 116.
Alleluia. I loved the Lord; for the Lord shall hear the voice of my prayer. (Alleluia. I love the Lord; for the Lord hath heard the words of my prayer.) 
For he bowed down his ear to me; and I shall inwardly call him in my days (or and I shall call to him in all my days). 
The sorrows of death (en)compassed me; and the perils of hell found me. I found tribulation and sorrow; (The sorrows of death surrounded me; and the perils of Sheol, or the land of the dead, took hold of me. And I found myself in trouble and in sorrow;) 
and I called inwardly the name of the Lord. Thou, Lord, deliver my soul; (and I called on the name of the Lord, (saying), O Lord, save my soul! or O Lord, save me!) 
the Lord is merciful, and just, (or the Lord is merciful, and he is good); and our God doeth mercy. 
And the Lord keepeth little children; I was meeked, and he delivered me. (And the Lord keepeth safe the simple-hearted; yea, I was brought down low, but he saved me.) 
My soul, turn thou (again) into thy rest; for the Lord hath done well to thee. (My soul, return to thy rest; for the Lord hath been good to thee.) 
For he hath delivered my soul from death; mine eyes from weepings, and my feet from falling down. (For he hath saved me from death; yea, he stopped my eyes from weeping, and my feet from slipping, or stumbling.) 
I shall please the Lord; in the country of them that live. (I shall walk before the Lord; in the land of the living.) 
I believed, for which thing I spake; forsooth I was made low full much. (And I continued to believe; even when I was brought down so very low.) 
I said in my passing; Each man is a liar. (And I said in my panic or And I said when I was afraid, Everyone is a liar.) 
What shall I yield to the Lord; for all things which he hath yielded to me? (But what can I give back to the Lord; for all that he hath given to me?) 
I shall take the cup of health; and I shall inwardly call the name of the Lord. (I shall take the cup of salvation, or of deliverance; and I shall call on the name of the Lord.) 
I shall yield my vows to the Lord before all his people; (I shall pay my vows to the Lord; in the sight of all his people.) 
the death of saints of the Lord is precious in his sight. (The Lord is deeply moved by the death of any of his saints.) 
O! Lord, for I am thy servant; I am thy servant, and the son of thine handmaid, (or I am thy servant, and the son of thy servantess). Thou hast broken my bonds, 
to thee I shall offer a sacrifice of praising; and I shall inwardly call the name of the Lord. (and so I shall offer a sacrifice of praise to thee; and I shall call on the name of the Lord.) 
I shall yield my vows to the Lord, in the sight of all his people; (I shall pay my vows to the Lord, before all his people;) 
in the foreyards of the house of the Lord, in the midst of thee, Jerusalem. (in the courtyards of the House of the Lord, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem.) 
