LUKE.
Chapter 6.
And it was done in the second first sabbath or Forsooth it was done in the first second sabbath, when he passed by the corns, his disciples plucked (some) ears of corn; and they rubbing (them) with their hands, ate (them). 
And some of the Pharisees said to them, What do ye that, that is not leaveful in the sabbaths? (or Why do ye that, which is not lawful on the Sabbath?) 
And Jesus answered, and said to them, Have ye not read, what David did, when he hungered, and they that were with him; 
how he entered into the house of God, and took (the) loaves of proposition, and ate (them), and gave to them that were with him; which loaves it was not leaveful to eat, (no) but only to priests or no but to priests alone. (how he entered into God’s House, and took the loaves of the showbread, and ate them, and gave them to those who were with him; whichbread it was not lawful to eat, except for the priests.) 
And he said to them, For man’s Son is Lord, yea, of the sabbath. 
And it was done in another sabbath (or on another Sabbath), that he entered into a synagogue, and taught. And a man was there, and his right hand was dry. 
And the scribes and the Pharisees espied him, if he would heal him in the sabbath (or if he would heal him on the Sabbath), (so) that they should find cause, whereof they should accuse him. 
And he knew the thoughts of them, and he said to the man that had a dry hand, Rise up, and stand in the middle (of us). And he rose, and stood (there). 
And Jesus said to them, I ask you, if it is leaveful to do well in the sabbath day, or evil? to make a soul safe, or to lose? (And Jesus said to them, I ask you, is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath day, or evil? to save a life, or a soul, or to destroy it?) 
And when he had beheld all men about, he said to the man, Hold forth thine hand. And he held (it) forth, and his hand was restored to health. 
And they were full-filled with unwisdom or Soothly they were filled with unwisdom, and spake together, what they should do of Jesus (or what they would do about Jesus). 
And it was done in those days, he went out into an hill to pray (or he went up onto a hill to pray); and he was all night dwelling in the prayer of God. 
And when the day was come, he called his disciples, and chose twelve of them, which he called or he named also apostles; 
Simon, whom he called Peter, and Andrew, his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew, 
Matthew and Thomas, James Alphaeus, and Simon, that is called Zelotes (or the Zealot), 
Judas of James, and Judas Iscariot, that was (the) traitor. 
And Jesus came down from the hill with them, and stood in a field place; and the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people, of all Judea, and Jerusalem, and of the sea coasts, and of Tyre and Sidon, (or from all of Judea, and Jerusalem, and from the sea coasts, and from Tyre and Sidon), that came to hear him, and to be healed of their sicknesses; 
and they that were travailed of or with unclean spirits, were healed. (and those who were troubled by unclean spirits, or devils and demons, were healed.) 
And all the people sought to touch him, for virtue went out of him (or for power went out of him), and healed all. 
And when his eyes were cast up, into his disciples, he said, (or And he turned his eyes upon his disciples, and he said), Blessed be ye, poor men +or Blessed be ye, (the) poor, for the kingdom of God is yours. 
Blessed be ye, that now hunger, for ye shall be full-filled. Blessed be ye, that now weep, for ye shall laugh. Blessed be ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Blessed be ye that weep now, for ye shall laugh. 
Ye shall be blessed, when men shall hate you, and separate you away, and put reproof to youor and shall put shame on you, and cast out your name as evil, for man’s Son. 
Joy ye in that day, and be ye glad; for lo! your meed is much in heaven; for after these things the fathers of them did to (the) prophets. (Rejoice on that day, and be glad; for behold! your reward is great in heaven; for thus their fathers did to the prophets.) 
Nevertheless woe to you, rich men, that have your comfort. 
Woe to you that be full-filled, for ye shall hunger. Woe to you that now laugh, for ye shall mourn, and weep. Woe to you that be filled, for ye shall hunger. Woe to you that laugh now, for ye shall mourn, and weep. 
Woe to you, when all men shall bless you; after these things the fathers of them did to false prophets (or for thus their fathers did to the false prophets). 
But I say to you that hear, love ye your enemies, do ye well to them that hated you or do ye well to them that hate you; 
bless ye men that curse you, pray ye for men that defame you or that falsely challenge you. 
And to him that smiteth thee on the one cheek, show also the other or give also the tother; and from him that taketh away from thee a cloth, do not thou forbid the coat, (or and as for him who taketh away a cloak from thee, give also thy coat to him). 
And give to each that asketh thee, and if a man taketh away those things that be thine, ask thou not again (for them). 
And as ye will that men do to you (or And as ye desire that men do to you), do ye also to them in like manner. 
And if ye love them that love you, what thank(s), or what grace, is to you? for sinful men love men that love them. (And if ye love those who love you, what credit is that to you? for sinners love those who love them.) 
And if ye do well to them that do well to you, what grace, or what thank(s), is to you? for sinful men do this thing. (And if ye do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? for sinners do this same thing.) 
And if ye lend to them of which ye hope to take again, what thank(s), or what grace, is to you? for sinful men lend to sinful men, to take again as much. (And if ye lend to those from whom ye hope to receive back, what credit is that to you? for sinners lend to sinners, to receive back as much.) 
Nevertheless love ye your enemies, and do ye well, and lend ye, hoping nothing thereof, and your meed shall be much (or and your reward shall be great), and ye shall be the sons of the Highest, for he is benign, or of good will, on unkind men and evil men. 
Therefore be ye merciful, as your Father is merciful. 
Do not ye deem, and ye shall not be deemed, (or Do not judge, and ye shall not be judged). Do not ye condemn, and ye shall not be condemned; forgive ye, and it shall be forgiven to you. 
Give ye, and it shall be given to you. They shall give into your bosom a good measure, and well-filled, and shaken together, and overflowing; for by the same measure, by which ye mete, it shall be meted again to you, (or for by the same measure, by which ye measure, it shall be measured unto you). 
And he said to them a likeness (or a parable), Whether the blind may lead the blind? nor fall they not both into the ditch? or whether they fall not both into the ditch? 
A disciple is not above his master (or A student is not above his teacher); but each shall be perfect, if he be as his master. 
And what seest thou in thy brother’s eye a mote (or And why seest thou a speck in thy brother’s eye), but thou beholdest not a beam, that is in thine own eye? 
Or how mayest thou say to thy brother, Brother, suffer, (and) I shall cast out the mote of thine eye, (or Brother, allow me, and I shall take out the speck from thine eye), and thou beholdest not a beam that is in thine own eye? Hypocrite, first take out or cast out the beam of thine eye, and then thou shalt see to take out the mote of thy brother’s eye. 
It is not a good tree, that maketh evil fruits, neither an evil tree, that maketh good fruits; 
for every tree is known of his fruit. And men gather not figs of thorns, neither men gather a grape of a bush of briers. (for every tree is known by its fruit. And people do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from a briar bush.) 
A good man (out) of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth good things, and an evil man (out) of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things; for (out) of the plenty of the heart the mouth speaketh. 
And what call ye me, Lord, Lord, (or And why do ye call me, Lord, Lord), and do not (do) those things that I say. 
Each that cometh to me, and heareth my words, and doeth them, I shall show to you, to whom he is like. 
He is like to a man that buildeth an house, that digged deep, and set or put the foundament on a stone (or and laid its foundation on a stone). And when a great flood was made, the flood was hurled to that house, and it might not move it, for it was founded on a firm stone. 
But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like to a man building his house on the earth, without (a) foundament, (or upon the ground, without a foundation); into which the flood was hurled, and anon it fell down (or and at once it fell down); and the falling down of that house was made great. 
