APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 2.
And to the angel of the church of Ephesus write thou, These things saith he, that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, which walketh in the middle or in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks (or who walketh in the midst of the seven gold candlesticks). 
I know thy works, and thy travail or thy toil, and thy patience, and that thou mayest not suffer evil men, (or I know of thy works, and thy labour, and thy endurance, and that thou cannot allow or tolerate evil men); and thou hast assayed them that say that they be apostles, and be not, and thou hast found them (to be) liars; 
and thou hast patience (or and thou hast endured), and thou hast suffered for my name or and thou hast sustained for my name, and failedest not. 
But I have against thee a few things, that thou hast left thy first charity. (But I have a few things against thee, yea, that thou hast left thy first love.) 
Therefore be thou mindful from whence thou hast fallen, and do penance, and do the first works; or else, I shall come soon to thee, and I shall move thy candlestick from his place, no but thou do penance. (And so remember from where thou hast fallen, and repent, and do again the first works; or else, I shall come soon to thee, and I shall remove thy candlestick from its place, unless thou repent.) 
But thou hast this good thing, that thou hatedest the deeds of (the) Nicolaitanes (or the Nicolaitans), which also I hate. 
He that hath ears, hear he, what the Spirit saith to the churches. To him that overcometh, I shall give to eat of the tree of life, that is in the paradise of my God. 
And to the angel of the church of Smyrna write thou, These things saith the first and the last, that was dead, and liveth. 
I know thy tribulation, and thy poverty, but thou art rich; and thou art blasphemed of them, that say, that they be Jews, and be not, but be the synagogue of Satan. (I know thy suffering, and thy poverty, even though thou art rich; and thou art blasphemed by those, who say, that they be Jews, and be not, but be Satan’s synagogue.) 
Dread thou nothing of these things, which thou shalt suffer. Lo! the devil shall send some of you into prison, that ye be tempted or that ye be proved; and ye shall have tribulation (for) ten days. Be thou faithful to the death, and (then) I shall give to thee a crown of life. (Fear none of the things, which thou shalt suffer. Behold! the Devil shall send some of you into prison, so that ye can be tested; and ye shall suffer for ten days. But be faithful unto death, and then I shall give thee a crown of life.) 
He that hath ears, hear he, what the Spirit saith to the churches. He that overcometh, shall not be hurt of the second death, (or He who shall overcome, shall not be hurt by the second death). 
And to the angel of the church of Pergamos (or of Pergamum), write thou, These things saith he, that hath the sword sharp on either side or on each side. 
I know where thou dwellest, where the seat of Satan is (or where Satan’s throne is); and thou holdest my name, and deniedest not my faith. And in those days was Antipas, my faithful witness, that was slain at you (or who was killed there before you), where Satan dwelleth. 
But I have against thee a few things; for thou hast there men holding the teaching of Balaam, which taught Balac to send (a) cause of stumbling before the sons of Israel (or who taught Balak to put a cause of stumbling before the Israelites), to eat of (the) sacrifices of idols, and to do fornication; 
so also thou hast men holding the teaching of (the) Nicolaitanes. (and thou hast men who believe and follow the teaching of the Nicolaitans.) 
Also do thou penance (or And so repent); if anything less, I shall come soon to thee, and I shall fight with them with the sword of my mouth. 
He that hath ears, hear he, what the Spirit saith to the churches. To him that overcometh I shall give angel meat hid or manna; and I shall give to him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth, but he that taketh it, (or and I shall give him a white stone, and a new name written on the stone, which no man knoweth, but he who receiveth it). 
And to the angel of the church of Thyatira write thou, These things saith the Son of God, that hath eyes as (the) flame of fire, and his feet like latten, (or who hath eyes like fiery flames, and his feet be like latten, or like the dross of gold). 
I know thy works, and (thy) faith, and charity (or thy love), and thy service, and thy patience, and thy last works (be) more than the former (or greater than thy first works). 
But I have against thee a few things; for thou sufferest the woman Jezebel, which saith that she is a prophetess, (or for thou hast allowed the woman Jezebel, who saith that she is a prophetess), to teach and deceive my servants, to do lechery, and to eat of things offered to idols. 
And I gave to her time, that she should do penance, and she would not do penance of her fornication. (And I gave her time, so that she would repent, but she would not repent of her fornication, or of her idolatry, or her immorality.) 
And lo! I send her into a bed, and they that do lechery with her shall be in most tribulation, no but they do penance of her works. (And behold! I shall send her into a bed, and those who do lechery with her shall suffer greatly, unless they repent of their works.) 
And I shall slay her sons into death, and all (the) churches shall know, that I am searching reins and hearts; and I shall give to each man of you after his works. 
And I say to you, and to (the) others that be at Thyatira, whoever have not this teaching, and that knew not the highness of Satan, how they say, I shall not send on you another charge (or I shall not put another burden upon you); 
nevertheless hold ye (onto) that that ye have, till I come. 
And to him that shall overcome, and that shall keep till into the end my works, I shall give power on folks, (And to him who shall overcome, and who shall continue doing my works unto the end, I shall give power over the nations and the peoples,) 
and he shall govern them in an iron rod (or and he shall govern them with an iron rod); and they shall be broken (al)together, as a vessel of a potter, as also I received of (or from) my Father; 
and I shall give to him a morrow star. 
He that hath ears, hear he, what the Spirit saith to the churches. 
