1ST THESSALONIANS.
Chapter 3.
For which thing we suffered (it) no longer, and it pleased to us to dwell alone at Athens; (For which thing we could no longer bear it, and it pleased us to remain alone at Athens;) 
and we sent Timothy, our brother, and minister of God in the evangel of Christ, (or and so we sent Timothy, our brother, and the servant of God in the Gospel, or the Good News, of the Messiah), to you to be confirmed, and to be taught, or admonished, for your faith, 
that no man be moved in these tribulations (or so that no one be moved, or be shaken, by these troubles). For ye yourselves know, that in this thing we be set. 
For when we were at you, we before-said to you, that we should suffer tribulations; as it is (now) done, and ye know (it). (For when we were with you, we said ahead of time to you, or we warned you, that we would suffer troubles; as it is now done, and ye know it.) 
Therefore I, Paul, no longer abiding, sent to know your faith, lest peradventure he that tempteth shall tempt you, and your travail be made (in) vain or and our travail be made (in) vain. (And so I, Paul, no longer waiting, sent to know your faith, lest perhaps he who testeth shall test you, and my labour be made in vain.) 
But now, when Timothy shall come to us from you, and (shall) tell to us your faith and charity, and that ye have good mind of us, (for)evermore desiring to see us, as we also you; Now forsooth Timothy coming to us from you, and telling to us your faith and charity, and for ye have evermore good mind of us, desiring for to see us, as we also you;(But now, Timothy hath come back to us from you, and hath told us about your faith and love, and that ye have a fond remembrance of us, always desiring to see us, as we also you;) 
therefore, brethren, we be comforted in you, in all our need and tribulation, by your faith. (and so, brothers, we be strengthened by you, in all our need and troubles, by your faith.) 
For now we live, if ye stand in the Lord. 
For what doing of thankings may we yield to God for you (or For what doing of thanks can we give to God for you), in all joy, in which we joy for you before our Lord? 
night and day more plenteously praying, that we see your face, and fulfill those things that fail to your faith or and fulfill those things that fail of your faith. 
But God himself and our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, (ad)dress our way to you. (But God himself and our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, direct our way to you.) 
And the Lord multiply you, and make your charity to be plenteous of each to (the) other or and make your charity for to abound together, and into all men, as also we in you; (And may the Lord make your love for one another be plentiful, or to abound more and more, and for all men, as also we for you, or and also our love for you;) 
that your hearts be confirmed without (com)plaint in holiness, before God and our Father, in the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. Amen. (so that your hearts be confirmed in holiness without fault or blemish, before God and our Father, in the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his people. Amen.) 
