2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 3.
Begin we therefore again to praise (or to commend) us-selves? or whether we need, as some men, epistles or letters of praising to you, or of you? (or from you?) 
Ye be our epistle, written in our hearts, which is known and read of all men (or which is known and read by all men), 
and ye be made open, for ye be the epistle of Christ ministered of us, and written, not with ink, but by the Spirit of the living God; not in stone tables, but in fleshly tables of heart. (and ye be made open, for ye be the letter of the Messiah served by us, and written, not with ink, but by the Spirit of the living God; not on stone tablets, but on the fleshly tablets of the heart.) 
For we have such trust by Christ to God; 
not that we be sufficient to think anything of us-selves, as of us, but our sufficience is of God (or but our sufficiency is from God). 
Which also made us able ministers of the new testament, not by (the) letter, but by (the) Spirit; for the letter slayeth, but the Spirit quickeneth. (Who also made us able servants of the new covenant, not by the letter, but by the Spirit; for the letter killeth, but the Spirit enliveneth or giveth life.) 
And if the ministration of death written by letter(s) in stones was in glory, so that the children of Israel might not behold into the face of Moses, for the glory of his face, which glory is voided (or is done away), 
how shall not the ministration of the Spirit be more in glory? 
For if the ministration of condemnation was in glory, much more the ministration of rightwiseness is plenteous in glory. 
For neither that that was clear (or that that was glorious) was glorified in this part for the excellent glory; 
and if that that is voided (or that that was done away) was by glory, much more that that dwelleth still is in glory. 
Therefore we that have such hope, use much trust; 
and not as Moses laid or put a veil on his face, that the children of Israel should not behold into his face, which veil is voided. (and not as Moses put a veil on his face, so that the children of Israel could not behold his face, which veil is now done away.) 
But the wits of them be astonied; for into this day the same veil in the reading of the old testament, dwelleth not showed, for it is voided in Christ, (But their minds be astonished; for unto this day the same veil remaineth when they read from the Old Covenant, though it is not shown, but it is done away in the Messiah,) 
but into this day, when Moses is read, the veil is put on their hearts. 
But when Israel shall be converted to God, the veil shall be done away. 
And the Spirit is the Lord; and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. Forsooth the Lord is a Spirit; forsooth where is the Spirit of God, there is liberty. 
And all we that with open face see the glory of the Lord, be transformed into the same image, from clearness into clearness (or from glory unto glory), as of the Spirit of the Lord. 
