DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 4.
And while they spake to the people, the priests and the magistrates of the temple, and the Sadducees came upon them, 
and sorrowed, that they taught the people, and told in Jesus the again-rising from death or and told by Jesus (the) again-rising from (the) dead. (and were vexed, that they taught the people, and told them about the resurrection from the dead through Jesus.) 
And they laid (their) hands on them, and putted them into (the) ward or into (the) keeping into the morrow (or and put them in the prison until the morning); for it was then eventide. 
But many of them that had heard the word, believed; and the number of men was made five thousands or and the number of them is made five thousand. 
And amorrow it was done or Forsooth in the morrow it was done, that the princes of them, and elder men and scribes were gathered in Jerusalem; (And the next morning it was done, that their high priests, and elders, and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem;) 
and Annas, (the) prince of priests, (or and Annas, the former High Priest), and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and how many ever were of the kind or of the kindred of priests. 
And they set them in the middle, and asked, In what virtue, either in what name, have ye done this thing? (And they set them in their midst, and asked, By what power, or in what name, have ye done this thing?) 
Then Peter filled with the Holy Ghost, said to them, Ye princes of the people, and ye elder men, hear ye. (Then Peter filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Ye high priests of the people, and ye elders, listen.) 
If we today be deemed in the good deed of a sick man, in whom or in which this man is made safe, (If today we be judged for this good deed for a sick man, by which this man is saved,) 
be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from death or whom God raised from (the) dead, in this (man)or in him, this man standeth whole before you. 
This is the stone, which was reproved of (or rejected by) you (when) building, which is made into the head of the corner; 
and health is not in any other. For neither (any) other name under heaven is given to men, in which it behooveth us to be made safe. (and salvation, or deliverance, is not by any other. For no other name under heaven is given to men, by which it behooveth us to be saved.) 
And they saw the steadfastness of Peter and of John, and when it was found that they were men unlettered or without letters, and lay men, they wondered, and they knew them that they were with Jesus. 
And they saw the man that was healed, standing with them, and they might nothing gainsay (them), (or and they could not say anything against them). 
But they commanded them to go forth without the council (or And they ordered them to go outside the Council chamber). And they spake together, 
and said, What shall we do to these men? for the sign (or this miracle) is made known by them to all men, that dwell at Jerusalem; it is open, and we be not able to deny (it), or and we may not deny (it). 
But that it be no more published into the people, menace we to them (or let us threaten them), (so) that they speak no more in this name to any man. 
And they called them, and announced (or commanded) to them, that on no manner they should speak, neither teach, in the name of Jesus. 
But Peter and John answered, and said to them, If it be rightful in the sight of God to hear you rather than God, deem ye (or ye judge). 
For we must needs speak those things, that we have seen and heard. Forsooth we may not not speak (about) the things that we have seen and heard. 
And they menaced them, and left them, and found not how they should punish them, for the people; for all men clarified (God, for) that thing that was done in that that was befallen. (And they threatened them, and then let them go, for they could not find any way to punish them, because of the people; for all the people glorified God, for what was done in all that befell.) 
For the man was more than forty years old, in whom this sign of healing or this sign of health was made. (For the man was more than forty years old, in whom this miracle of a cure was done.) 
And when they were delivered, or were left, (or were let go), they came to their fellows, and told to them, how great things or how many things the princes of (the) priests and the elder men had said to them. (And when they were delivered, or released, they came back to their fellows, and told them everything that the high priests and the elders had said to them.) 
And when they heard, with one heart they raised (up their) voice to the Lord, and said, Lord, thou that madest heaven and earth, (the) sea, and all things that be in them, 
which saidest by the Holy Ghost, by the mouth of our father David, thy child, Why heathen men gnashed with (their) teeth together or wrathed, and the peoples thought vain things? (who said by the Holy Spirit, by the mouth of our father David, thy servant, Why did the Gentiles gnash with their teeth together, or be enraged, and the peoples thought empty and futile things?) 
(The) Kings of the earth stood nigh, and (the) princes came together into one, against the Lord, and against his Christ (or and against his Messiah). 
For verily, Herod and Pontius Pilate, with heathen men, and peoples of Israel, came together in this city against thine holy child Jesus, whom thou anointedest, (For truly, Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles, and the people of Israel, came together in this city against thine holy servant Jesus, whom thou anointedest,) 
to do the things, that thine hand and thy counsel (or thy plan or thy purpose) deemed to be done. 
And now, Lord, behold into the threatenings of them, and grant to thy servants to speak thy word with all trust, 
in that thing that thou hold forth thine hand, that healings and signs (or miracles) and wonders be made by (or through) the name of thine holy Son Jesus. 
And when they had prayed, the place was moved, in which they were gathered; and all were filled with the Holy Ghost (or and everyone was filled with the Holy Spirit), and spake the word of God with trust. 
And of the multitude of men believing was (of) one heart and one will; neither any man said (that) anything of those things that he wielded (or he possessed) to be his own, but all things were (held in) common to them. 
And with great virtue, the apostles yielded witnessing of the again-rising of Jesus Christ our Lord, and great grace was in all (of) them or and great grace was in them all. (And with great power, the apostles testified about the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord, and everyone was richly blessed.) 
For neither any needy man was among them, for how many ever were possessors of fields, either of houses, they sold (them), and brought the prices of those things that they sold (or and brought the payments for those things that they sold), 
and laid (them) before the feet of the apostles. And it was parted to each, as it was need(ful) to each, (or And it was divided unto each, as it was needed by each). 
Forsooth Joseph, that was named Barnabas of the apostles (or who was called Barnabas by the apostles), that is to say (or which is translated), the son of comfort, of the lineage (or of the tribe) of Levi, or a Levite by kin, a man of Cyprus, 
when he had a field, sold it, and brought the price (or and brought the payment for it), and laid it before the feet of the apostles. 
