APOCALYPSE OF JOHN.
Chapter 1.
(The) Apocalypse of Jesus Christ or The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave to him to make open to his servants, which things it behooveth to be made soon. And he signified, sending by his angel to his servant John, 
which bare witnessing to the word of God, and (to the) witnessing of Jesus Christ, in these things, whatever things he saw. (who testified to the word of God, and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, in these things, whatever he saw.) 
Blessed is he that readeth, and he that heareth the words of this prophecy, and keepeth those things that be written in it; for the time is nigh. (Blessed is he who readeth, and he who heareth the words of this prophecy, and obeyeth those things that be written in it; for the time is near.) 
John to the seven churches, that be in Asia, grace and peace (be) to you, of him that is, and that was, and that is to coming or that is to come; and of the seven spirits, that be in the sight of his throne; 
and of Jesus Christ, that is a faithful witness (or who is a faithful witness), the first begotten of dead men or the first begotten of (the) dead, and (the) prince of (the) kings of the earth; which loved us, and washed us from our sins in his blood, 
and made us a kingdom, and priests to God and to his Father; to him be glory and empire into worlds of worlds (or to him be glory and empire forever and ever). Amen. 
Lo! he cometh with clouds, and each eye shall see him, and they that pricked him; and all the kindreds of the earth shall bewail themselves on him. Yea, Amen! (Behold! he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him, and they who pierced him; and all the peoples of the earth shall bewail themselves over him. Yea, Amen!) 
I am alpha and omega, the beginning and the end, saith the Lord God, that is, and that was, and that is to coming or that is to come, (the) almighty. (I am Alpha and Omega, the Source and the Fulfillment, saith the Lord God, who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty.) 
I, John, your brother, and partner in tribulation, and kingdom, and patience in Christ Jesus, was in an isle, that is called Patmos, for the word of God, and for the witnessing of Jesus. (I, John, your brother, and partner in suffering, and kingdom, and patience, or endurance, in the Messiah Jesus, was on an island called Patmos, because of the word of God, and because of my testimony about Jesus.) 
I was in (the) Spirit in the Lord’s day or in the Sunday, and I heard behind me a great voice, as of a trump, (I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, or on a Sunday, and I heard a loud voice behind me, like the sound of a trumpet,) 
saying to me, Write thou in a book that thing that thou seest, and send to the seven churches that be in Asia; to Ephesus, to Smyrna, and to Pergamos (or to Pergamum), and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea. 
And I turned, that I should see the voice that spake with me, (or And I turned, so that I could see who spoke to me); and I turned, and I saw seven candlesticks of gold, 
and in the middle of the seven golden candlesticks one like to the Son of man, clothed with a long garment, and girded at the teats with a golden girdle, (or and girded at the breast with a golden girdle, or and with a gold band around his chest). 
And the head of him and his hairs were white, as white wool, and as snow; and the eyes of him as (a) flame of fire, 
and his feet like to latten or like the dross of gold, as in a burning chimney; and the voice of him as the voice of many waters. (and his feet were like latten, or the dross of gold, like in a furnace; and his voice was like the sound of many waters.) 
And he had in his right hand seven stars, and a sword sharp on ever either side went out of his mouth or and a sword sharp on both sides went out of his mouth; and his face as the sun shineth in his virtue (or and his face shone like the sun in its strength). 
And when I had seen him, I felled down at his feet, as dead. And he putted his right hand on me, and said, Do not thou dread (or Do not fear); I am the first and the last; 
and I am alive, and I was dead; and lo! I am living into worlds of worlds, (or and behold! I shall remain alive forever and ever), and I have the keys of death and of hell. 
Therefore write thou which things thou hast seen, and which be, and which it behooveth to be done after these things. 
The sacrament of the seven stars or The mystery of (the) seven stars, which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks; the seven stars be the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks be the seven churches. 
