3RD EZRA.
Chapter 5.
After these things forsooth there were princes chosen of (or from their) towns, that they should wend or go up, by houses, by their lineages, and the wives of them, and the sons and daughters of them, and servants and handmaidens of them, and their beasts. 
And king Darius sent together with them a thousand horsemen, to the time that they brought them into Jerusalem, with peace, and with musics, and timbres, and trumps; 
and all the brethren were playing. And he made them to go up together with them. 
And these be the names of the men, that went up, by their towns, into lineages, and into (the) part of the princehood of them. 
Priests; the sons of Phinehas, the sons of Aaron, Jesus, (or Jeshua, or Joshua), the son of Josedek, the son of Saraeas, (and) Joakim, the son of Zer-ubbabel, son of Salathiel, of the house of David, of the progeny of Phares (or Perez), of the lineage forsooth of Judah, 
that spake under Darius, king of Persia, marvellous doing words, in the second year of his realm or of his reign, in April (or Nisan), the first month. 
Forsooth these it be, that went up of Judah from the captivity, or thralldom, of the transmigration, whom Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, translated (or brought over) into Babylon; 
and each is (re)turned again into Jerusalem, and into all the cities of Judea, each into his own city, that came with Zerubbabel, and with Jesus, (or Jeshua, or Joshua); Nehemiah, Zar-aeas, and Resaiah, Eneneus, Mardoch-aeus (or Mordecai), Beelsarus, Asphar-asus, Reeliah, Romelius, (and) Baana, one of the princes of them. 
And the number from the Gentiles of them, from the provosts, or reeves, of them; the sons of Phoros, two thousand an hundred seventy and two; (the sons of Saphat, four hundred seventy and two); 
the sons of Ares, seven hundred fifty and six; 
the sons of Pahath-moab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve; 
the sons of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four; the sons of Zathui, nine hundred forty and five; the sons of Chorbe, seven hundred and five; the sons of Bani, six hundred forty and eight; 
the sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty and three; the sons of Astaa, three thousand two hundred twenty and two; 
the sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty and seven; the sons of Bagoi, two thousand sixty and six; the sons of Adin, four hundred fifty and four; 
the sons of Ater (the son of) Hezekiah, ninety and two; the sons of Keilan and Azetas, threescore and seven; the sons of Azurus, four hundred thirty and two; 
the sons of Annias, an hundred and one; the sons of Arom, thirty-two; the sons of Bassa, three hundred twenty and three; the sons of Arsiphurith, an hundred and two (or twelve); 
the sons of Baeterus, three thousand and five; the sons of Bethlo-mon, an hundred twenty and three; 
the sons of Netophah, fifty and five; the sons of Anathoth, an hundred fifty and eight; the sons of Bethas-moth, forty and two; 
the sons of Cariathiarius, twenty and five; the sons of Caphira and Beroth, seven hundred forty and three; the sons of Pira, seven hundred; 
the sons of Chadias and Ammidoi, four hundred twenty and two; the sons of Cirama and Gabdes, six hundred twenty and one; 
the sons of Macalon, an hundred twenty and two; the sons of Betolio, fifty and two; the sons of Phinis, an hundred fifty and six; 
the sons of Calamolalus and Onus, seven hundred twenty and five; the sons of Jerechus, two hundred forty and five; 
the sons of Sanaas, three thousand three hundred and thirty. 
Priests: the sons of Jeddu, the son of Jesus, (or Jeshua, or Joshua), among the sons of Anasib, nine hundred seventy and two; the sons of Emmer-uth (or Immer), a thousand fifty and two; 
the sons of Phassurus, a thousand forty and seven; the sons of Charme, a thousand and seventeen. 
Deacons or Levites; the sons of Jessue, and Cadmielus, and Bannus, and Sudius, four and seventy; all the number from the two and twenty year, thirty thousand four hundred and two and sixty; sons, and daughters, and wives, all the numbering, sixty thousand two hundred and two and forty. 
The sons of priests, that sung in the temple; the sons of Asaph, an hundred and eight and twenty. 
Ushers forsooth (or The porters); the sons of Salum, the sons of Atar, the sons of Tolmon, the sons of Dacubi, the sons of Ateta, the sons of Sabi, (in) all an hundred and nine and thirty. 
Priests, serving in the temple (or The Temple servants); (the) sons of Esau, the sons of Asipha, the sons of Taboth, the sons of Keras, the sons of Susa, the sons of Phaleas, the sons of Labana, the sons of Aggaba, 
the sons of Acud, the sons of Uta, the sons of Ketab, the sons of Gaba, the sons of Subai, the sons of Anan, the sons of Cathua, the sons of Geddur, 
the sons of Jairus, the sons of Desan, the sons of Noeba, the sons of Chaseba, the sons of Gazera, the sons of Ozius, the sons of Phinoe, the sons of Asara, the sons of Basthae, the sons of Asana, the sons of Maani, the sons of Naphisi, the sons of Acum, the sons of Achipha, the sons of Asur, the sons of Pharakim, the sons of Baaloth, 
the sons of Meedda, the sons of Coutha, the sons of Charea, the sons of Barchue, the sons of Serar, the sons of Thomi, the sons of Nasith, the sons of Atepha. 
Solomon, the sons of him (or The sons of Solomon’s servants); the sons of Asapphioth, the sons of Pharida, the sons of Jeeli, the sons of Lozon, the sons of Isdael, the sons of Saphythi, 
the sons of Hagia, the sons of Phacareth, the sons of Sabie, the sons of Sarothie, the sons of Masias, the sons of Gas, the sons of Addus, the sons of Subas, the sons of Apherra, the sons of Barodis, the sons of Saphat, the sons of Adlon. 
All these were in holy serving; and the children of Solomon were four hundred fourscore and two. 
These be the sons that went up to (or from) Thermeleth and Thelsas; the princes of them were Charaathalar and Alar; 
and they might not tell out their cities, and their progenies, what manner they be; and of Israel, the sons of Dalan, the sons of Ban, the sons of Necodan, (six hundred and fifty-two). 
And of the priests, that used (the office of the) priesthood, and were not found; the sons of Obdia, the sons of Accos, the sons of Joddus, that took Augia (as his) wife, (one) of the daughters of Barzillai, and they be called by the name of her; 
and of these is sought the genealogy written or the written genealogy of the kindred, and they be prevented to use (the office of the) priesthood. 
And Nehemiah said to them, and Attharias, that they take not part of the holy things, till the time that there arise a taught bishop, into showing (or revelation) and truth. 
All Israel forsooth was twelve thousand (or All Israel twelve years of age and older), out-take (or besides) servants and handmaidens, two and forty thousand three hundred and sixty. 
The servants of them, and(the) handmaidens were seven thousand three hundred and seven and thirty (or forty); singers and singsters or singeresses, two hundred and five and sixty (or forty); 
camels, four hundred and five and thirty; horses, seven thousand six and thirty; mules, two hundred thousand and five and forty (or two hundred and five and forty); beasts under yoke, five thousand (and five hundred) and five and twenty. 
And of those provosts, or reeves, by towns, while they should come into the temple of God, that was in Jeru-salem, to be avowed to rear up the temple in his place, after their virtue; 
and the holy treasury to be given into the temple of works or to be given into the temple (into) the holy treasury of works, were eleven thousand bezants, and an hundred priests’ stoles. 
And there dwelled (the) priests, and deacons or Levites, and others, that were of the people, in Jerusalem, and in the realm or region; and the holy singers, and ushers (or the porters), and all Israel, in their regions. 
While the seventh month yet lasted, and when the sons of Israel were each in his own things, they came together of one accord into the porch (or open space), that was before the east gate. 
And while Jesus, (or Jeshua, or Joshua), the son of Josedek, and his brethren, (the) priests, stood, and Zerubbabel, the son of Salathiel, and his brethren, they made ready an altar, 
that they would offer on it burnt sacrifices, after those things that be written in the book of Moses, the man of God. 
And there came to them of other nations of the land, and reared (up) the holy treasury in his (or its own) place, all the folk of the land; and they offered hosts, and burnt sacrifices of the morrowtide to the Lord. 
And they did the feast of tabernacles, and a solemn day, as it is written in the law, and sacrifices each day, as it behooved. 
And after these things they ordain-ed offerings, and hosts of sabbaths, and of new moons, and of all solemn days hallowed or all hallowed solemn days. 
And how many ever vowed to the Lord, from the time of the new moon of the seventh month, they took hosts to offer to God; and the temple of the Lord was not yet builded up or yet was not built up. 
And they gave money to masons, and to wrights, and drinks or and drink and meats, with joy. 
And they gave cars (or carts) to (the) Sidonians and to (the) Tyrians (or the men of Tyre), that they should carry over to them from Lebanon wood cedar beams, and to make a navy into the haven of Joppa, after the decree that was written to them from Cyrus, king of Persia. 
And in the second year (after) they came into (or back to) the temple of God, into Jerusalem; the second month Zerubbabel began, the son of Salathiel, and Jesus, (or Jeshua, or Joshua), the son of Josedek, and the brethren of them, and (the) priests, and Levites (or deacons), and all they that came from the captivity into Jerusalem; 
and founded the temple of God, in the new moon of the second month of the second year, when they had come into Judea and to Jerusalem; 
and set deacons or Levites from the age of twenty years (old) upon the works of the Lord. And Jesus, (or Jeshua, or Joshua), stood, (and) his son(s), and his brethren, all the deacons or all Levites together casting, and executors, or followers, of the law, and doing works in the house of the Lord. 
And there stood (the) priests, hav-ing stoles, or long clothes, with trumps, and (the) Levites (or the deacons), the sons of Asaph, having cymbals, 
together praising the Lord, and blessing him, after the manner of David, king of Israel. 
And they sung a song to the Lord, for his sweetness and his worship into worlds, or ever (more), upon all Israel. 
And all the people sung with trumps, and cried with (a) great (or a loud) voice, praising together the Lord, in the rearing (up) of the Lord’s house. 
And there came many of the priests, and of (the) deacons or Levites, and of (the) presidents after (the) towns (or the princes of the towns), to the elders that had seen the rather house (or the first Temple), and at the building up of this house, with cry(ing), and with great wailing; 
and many with trumps, and great joy, 
so that the people heard not the trumps, for the great wailing of the people. Forsooth there was a company singing worshipfully in trumps (or with the trumpets), so that it was heard afar. 
And the enemies heard the lineages of Judah and of Benjamin, and came to know, what was this voice (or meaning) of (the) trumps. 
And they knew, that they that were of the captivity builded, or built, the temple to the Lord God of Israel. 
And the enemies coming nigh to Zerubbabel, and to Jesus, (or Jeshua, or Joshua), and to the reeves of (the) towns, they said to them, We shall build together with you. 
In like manner forsooth we have heard our Lord, and we have gone together from the days of Asbasareth (or Esarhaddon), king of Assyrians, that over-passed from hence, or that went over hence, (or that brought us here). 
And Zerubbabel, and Jesus, (or Jeshua, or Joshua), and the princes of the towns of Israel said to them, It (be)longeth not to us and to you together to build up the house of our God; 
forsooth we alone shall build the house of our God, after those things, that Cyrus, king of Persia, commanded. 
The Gentiles forsooth of the land living with them that be in Judea, and rearing up the work of building, and bringing forth both (their) espies and people, they prevented them to build up; 
and they hindered (the) men, haunting the goings-to, (so) that the building should not be ended in all the time of the life of the king Cyrus; and they drew along the making-up by two years, unto the reign of Darius. 
