EXODUS.
Chapter 34.
And afterward God said, Hew to thee two tables of stone at the likeness of the former, and I shall write on those tables those words, which the tables, that thou brakest, had. (And afterward God said, Cut thou two stone tablets like the first ones, and I shall write on these tablets the same words which the first tablets had, that thou hast broken.) 
Be thou ready in the morrowtide, that thou go up anon into the hill of Sinai; and thou shalt stand with me on the top of the hill; (Be thou ready in the morning, and come up at once onto Mount Sinai; and thou shalt stand with me on the top of the mountain;) 
no man go up with thee, neither any man be seen by all the hill; and oxen and sheep be not fed against the hill. (no one shall come up with thee, nor shall anyone be seen on all the mountain; and no oxen or sheep shall be fed near the mountain.) 
Therefore Moses hewed two tables of stone, (in) which manner the tables were before, and he rose by night, and went up into the hill of Sinai, as the Lord commanded to him; and he bare with him the tables. (And so Moses cut two stone tablets, like the first tablets, and he rose up early, and went up Mount Sinai, as the Lord commanded to him; and he carried the tablets with him.) 
And when the Lord had come down by a cloud, Moses stood with him, and called inwardly the name of the Lord; (And the Lord came down in a cloud, and Moses stood with him, and the Lord proclaimed his own name;) 
and when the Lord passed before him, he said, Lordshipper, Lord God, merciful, and pious, patient, and of much mercy doing, and soothfast, 
which keepest covenant and mercy into thousands, which doest away wickedness, and trespasses, and sins, and no man by himself is innocent with thee, which yieldest the wickedness of fathers to their sons, and to the sons of their sons, into the third and the fourth generation. (who keepest covenant and mercy with thousands of people, who doest away wickedness, and trespasses, and sins, but no one in themselves is innocent with me, and who punishest their sons, and the sons of their sons, to the third and fourth generations, for the wickedness of their fathers.) 
And hastily Moses was bowed low to the earth, and worshipped, (And Moses hastily bowed down low to the ground, and worshipped,) 
and said, Lord, if I have found grace in thy sight, (then) I beseech thee, that thou go with us, for the people is of hard noll (or for the people is hard-headed, or is stubborn); and that thou do away our wickednesses and sins, and wield us. 
The Lord answered, I shall make (a) covenant, and in (the) sight of all men I shall make signs, that were never seen (before) on the earth, neither in any folks (nor in any nation), (so) that this people, in whose midst thou art, see the fearedful work of the Lord, that I shall make (for thee). 
Keep thou all things, which I command to thee today, (or Obey thou everything which I command to thee today); I myself shall cast out before thy face (the) Amorites, and Canaanites, and Hittites, and Perizzites, and Hivites, and Jebusites. 
Beware, lest any time thou join friendships with the dwellers of that land, which friendships (shall) be into falling to thee. 
But also destroy thou their altars, break the images, and cut thou down their maumet woods; (And also destroy thou their altars, and break in pieces their images, and cut thou down their idol woods, or their sacred poles;) 
do not thou worship an alien God; a jealous lover is the Lord’s name, God is a fervent lover; (do not thou worship any foreign, or any other, god; for the Lord’s name is Jealous, and he is a jealous God;) 
make thou not (a) covenant with the men of those countries, lest when they have done fornication, that is, idolatry, with their gods, and have worshipped the simulacra of them, any man call thee (or someone call thee), that thou eat (some) of the things offered to an idol. 
Neither thou shalt take a wife of their daughters to thy sons, lest after those daughters have done fornication, that is, idolatry, they make also thy sons to do fornication into their gods (or they also make thy sons to do idolatry with their gods). 
Thou shalt not make to thee molten gods. (Thou shalt not make gods for thyselves out of melted metal.) 
Thou shalt keep the solemnity of therf loaves; seven days thou shalt eat therf loaves, as I commanded to thee, in the time of the month of new fruits; for in the month of ver time thou wentest out of Egypt. (Thou shalt keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread; for seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, as I commanded to thee, at the time of the month of Abib; for in the month of Abib thou wentest out of Egypt.) 
All thing of male kind that (first) openeth the womb shall be mine, of all living beasts, as well of oxen, as of sheep, it shall be mine. (All the males that first openeth the womb shall be mine, yea, of people, and of all living beasts, of oxen, as well as of sheep, they all be mine.) 
Thou shalt again-buy with a sheep the first engendered of an ass, else if thou givest not the price therefore, it shall be slain. Thou shalt again-buy the first begotten of thy sons; neither thou shalt appear void in my sight. (Thou shalt buy back the first-born of a donkey with a sheep, but if thou wilt not buy it back, it shall be killed. Thou shalt buy back the first-born of thy sons; thou shalt not appear empty-handed before me.) 
Six days thou shalt work, in the seventh day thou shalt cease to ear and to reap. (For six days thou shalt work, but on the seventh day thou shalt cease to plow and to harvest.) 
Thou shalt make to thee the solemnity of weeks, in the first things of fruits of thy ripe corn of wheat, and the solemnity when all things be gathered into barns, when the time of the year cometh again. (Thou shalt keep the Feast of Weeks, with the first fruits of thy wheat harvest, and also the Feast of Ingathering, when all things be gathered into the barns, when that time of the year cometh again.) 
Each male kind of thee shall appear in three times of the year in the sight of the Lord Almighty, thy God of Israel. (All thy adult males shall appear before the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, three times each year.) 
For when I shall take away (the) folks from thy face, and I shall alarge thy terms, none shall set treasons to thy land, while thou goest up (or when thou goest up), and appearest in the sight of thy Lord God, thrice in the year. 
Thou shalt not offer on sourdough the blood of my sacrifice, neither anything of the slain sacrifice of the solemnity of pask shall abide unto the morrowtide. (Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with anything made with yeast, nor shall anything of the slain sacrifice of the Feast of Passover remain until the morning.) 
(Each year) Thou shalt offer in the house of thy Lord God the first of the fruits of thy land. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in the milk of his mother (or Thou shalt not boil a goat kid in its mother’s milk). 
And the Lord said to Moses, Write thou (down) these words, by which I smote a bond of peace (or by which I make a covenant), both with thee and with Israel. 
Therefore Moses was there with the Lord by forty days and forty nights, and he ate not bread, and drank not water; and he wrote in the tables the ten words of the bond of peace. (And so Moses was there with the Lord for forty days and forty nights, and he ate no bread, and drank no water; and he wrote on the tablets the Ten Commandments of the covenant.) 
And when Moses came down from the hill of Sinai, he held in his hand (s) two tables of witnessing, and he wist not that his face was horned with wonderful shining beams, of the fellowship of God’s word. (And when Moses came down from Mount Sinai, he held in his hands the two tablets of the Witnessing, and he did not know that his face shone with wonderful shining beams, from his time of fellowship and of speaking with the Lord.) 
Forsooth Aaron and the sons of Israel saw (that) Moses’ face (was) horned, and they dreaded to nigh nigh, (And Aaron and the Israelites saw that Moses’ face shone, and they were afraid to come near,) 
and they were called of him, and they turned again, as well Aaron as the princes of the synagogue; and after that Moses spake, (but he called to them, and they came over to him, Aaron as well as the leaders of the congregation; and after that Moses had spoken with these men,) 
they came to him, yea all the sons of Israel; to which he commanded all things, which he had heard of the Lord in the hill of Sinai. (then all the other Israelites came over to him; to whom he commanded all the things, which he had heard from the Lord on Mount Sinai.) 
And when the words were fulfilled (or And when he had finished speaking), he put a veil on his face; 
and (when) he entered to the Lord, and spake with him, and he did away that veil, till he went out; and then he spake to the sons of Israel all things that were commanded to him; (but when he went in before the Lord, and spoke with him, he did away the veil, until he went out again; and then he would tell the Israelites all the things that were commanded to him;) 
which saw that the face of Moses going out was horned, but again he covered his face, if any time he spake to them. (and they saw that Moses’ face shone whenever he went out, and so he covered his face any time that he spoke to them.) 
