HEBREWS.
Chapter 10.
For the law having, (or containing, or being but) a shadow of (the) good things to come, not that image of things, may never make men nighing or coming nigh perfect by those same sacrifices, (or can never make those who approach become perfect by those same sacrifices), which they offer without ceasing by all years; 
(or) else they should have ceased to be offered, for as much as the worshippers cleansed once, had not furthermore conscience of sin. 
But in them by oft offering, (the) mind of sins is made by all years (or a remembrance of sins is made year after year). 
For it is impossible that sins be done away by (the) blood of bulls, and of (the) bucks of goats. 
Therefore he entering into the world, saith, Thou wouldest not sacrifice and offering; but thou hast shaped a body to me; (And so he entering into the world, saith, Thou desirest not sacrifice and offering; but thou hast shaped, or thou hast prepared, a body for me;) 
and burnt sacrifices also for sin pleased not to thee. 
Then I said, Lo! I come; in the beginning of the book it is written of me (or from the beginning of the Book it is written about me), that I do thy will, God. 
He saying before, That thou wouldest not sacrifices, and offerings, and burnt sacrifices for sin, nor those things be pleasant to thee, which be offered by the law, (He saying first, Thou desirest not sacrifices, and offerings, and burnt sacrifices for sin, nor those things be pleasing to thee, which be offered by the Law,) 
then I said, Lo! I come, that I do thy will, God. He doeth away the first, that he make steadfast the second. 
In which will we be hallowed by the offering of the body of Christ Jesus once. (By whose will we be consecrated, or we be sanctified, by the offering of the body of the Messiah Jesus once.) 
And each priest is ready ministering each day, and oft times offering the same sacrifices, which may never do away sins (or which can never do away sins). 
But this man offering one sacrifice for sins, forevermore sitteth in the right half of God the Father or forevermore sitteth on the right half of God the Father; (But this man offering one sacrifice for sins, forevermore sitteth at the right hand, or on the right side, of God the Father;) 
from thenceforth abiding, till his enemies be put a stool of or under his feet. (where he waiteth henceforth, until his enemies be made a footstool under his feet.) 
For by one offering he made perfect forevermore hallowed men. 
And the Holy Ghost witnesseth to us (or And the Holy Spirit testifieth to us); for after that he said, 
This is the testament, which I shall witness to them after those days, the Lord saith, in giving my laws in(to) the hearts of them, and in the souls of them I shall above write them; (This is the covenant, about which I shall testify to them after those days, saith the Lord, in putting my laws in their hearts, and I shall write them upon their minds;) 
and now I shall no more think on the sins and the wickedness(es) of them. 
And where remission of these is, now is there none offering for sin. +Forsooth where (there) is remission of these, now is none offering for sin.(And where there is forgiveness for sins, now there is no more any need of offerings for sins.) 
Therefore, brethren, having trust into the entering of (the) holy things, in the blood of Christ, (And so brothers, having trust to enter into the Holy of Holies, by the blood of the Messiah,) 
which he hallowed to us a new way (or the new way which he hath consecrated for us), and living by the covering or by a veil, that is to say, his flesh, 
and we having the great priest on the house of God, (and we having the Great Priest over the household of God,) 
nigh we with very heart (or let us approach with a true heart), in the plenty of faith; and be our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with clean water, 
and hold we the confession of our hope, bowing to no side, or unbowing, or unpliable; for he is true that hath made the promise. 
And behold we together in the stirring of charity (or of love), and of good works; 
not forsaking our gathering together, as it is the custom to some men, but comforting them, and by so much the more, by how much ye see the day nighing. 
For why now a sacrifice for sins is not left to us, that sin willfully, after that we have taken the knowing of truth. (Because now there is no longer any sacrifice for sins for us, we who sin willingly, or with our free will, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth.) 
For why some abiding of doom is dreadful, and the (pur)suing of fire, which shall waste (his) adversaries. (But instead, only waiting for fearful Judgement, and the fire following, which shall waste all his adversaries.) 
Who that breaketh Moses’ law, dieth without any mercy, by two or three witnesses (or on the evidence given by two or three witnesses); 
how much more guess ye, that he deserveth worse torments, which defouleth the Son of God, and holdeth the blood of the testament polluted, in which he is hallowed, and doeth despite or wrong to the Spirit of grace? (then how much more do ye think, that he deserveth worse torments, who defileth the Son of God, and holdeth the blood of the covenant polluted, by which he was consecrated, or he was sanctified, and despiseth or doeth wrong to the Spirit of grace?) 
For we know him that said, To me vengeance, and I shall yield (it). And again, For the Lord shall deem his people. (For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, and I shall yield it. And again, The Lord shall judge his people.) 
It is fearedful to fall into the hands of God living. +It is fearful to fall into the hands of (the) living God. 
And have ye mind on the former days, in which ye were (en)lightened, and suffered great strife of passions. (And remember the early days, when ye were first enlightened, and struggled through great sufferings.) 
And in the tother ye were made a spectacle by shames, and tribulations, (or by reproofs, and troubles); in another ye were made fellows of men living so. 
For also to bound men ye had compassion, and ye received with joy the robbing of your goods, knowing that ye have a better and a dwelling substance. 
Therefore do not ye lose your trust, which hath great rewarding. 
For patience is needful to you, that ye do the will of God, and bring again the promise. (Because it is necessary that ye be patient, or that ye endure, so that ye do God’s will, and win the promise, or and receive the promise.) 
For yet a little, and he that is to come shall come, and he shall not tarry. 
For my just man liveth of faith (or For my righteous man liveth by faith); (so) that if he withdraweth himself, he shall not please to my soul. 
But we be not the sons of withdrawing away into perdition, but of faith into the getting of (the) soul, (or but of faithfulness unto the getting of life, or unto the saving of our souls). 
