HEBREWS.
Chapter 6.
Therefore we bringing in a word of the beginning of Christ, be we born to the perfection of him, not again laying the foundament of penance from dead works, and of the faith to God, (And so, having brought to you the beginning of the words, or the first lessons, about the Messiah, now let us be born unto his perfection, not again laying the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith in God,) 
and of teaching of baptisms, and of laying on of hands, and of (the) rising again of dead men, and of everlasting doom. (and of the teaching of baptisms, and of the laying on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgement.) 
And this thing we shall do, if God shall suffer. (And we shall do this, if God shall allow it.) 
But it is impossible, that they that be once (en)lightened or illumined, and have tasted also an heavenly gift, and be made partners of the Holy Ghost (or and be made partners of the Holy Spirit), 
and nevertheless have tasted the good word of God, and the virtues of the world to coming, or and the virtues of the world to come, (or and the powers of the world to come), 
and be slid far away, that they be renewed again to penance. Which again crucify to themselves the Son of God, and have him to scorn. 
For the earth that drinketh rain oft coming on it, and bringeth forth covenable (or suitable) herb(s), to them of which it is tilled, taketh blessing of God. 
But that that is bringing forth thorns and briars, is reprovable, (or is reproachable, or is worthy to be rebuked), and next to curse, whose ending shall be into burning. 
But, ye most dearworthy, we trust of you better things, and near(er) to health (or and nearer to salvation), though we speak so. 
For God is not unjust, that he forget your work and love, which ye have showed in his name; for ye have ministered to (the) saints, and (do) minister, (or for ye have served God’s people, and continue to serve them). 
And we covet that each of you show the same busyness to the full-filling of hope into the end; 
that ye be not made slow, but also (pur)suers of them, which by faith and patience shall inherit the promises. (so that ye be not made slow, but also followers of those, who by faith and patience, or endurance, shall inherit the promises.) 
For God promising to Abraham, for he had none greater, by whom he should swear, swore by himself, 
and said, I blessing shall bless thee, and I multiplying shall multiply thee; 
and so he long abiding had the promise. and so he long suffering got repromission. 
For men swear by a greater than themselves, and the end of all their plea, or all their controversy, or debate, is an oath to confirmation. 
In which thing God willing to show plenteouslier (or In which God desiring to show more plentifully), to the heirs of his promise the firmness or the unmoveableness of his counsel, put betwixt an oath, 
(so) that by two things unmoveable, by which it is impossible that God lie, we have (the) strongest solace, or comfort, we that flee together to hold the hope that is put forth to us. 
Which hope as an anchor we have secure to the soul, and firm, and going into the inner things of hiding; 
where the before-goer, Jesus, that is made bishop into without end by the order of Melchisedec, entered for us. (where the foregoer, Jesus, who is made High Priest forever in the order of Melchizedek, entered for us.) 
