HEBREWS.
Chapter 2.
Therefore more plenteously it behooveth us to keep those things, that we have heard, lest peradventure we float away. 
For if that word that was said by (the) angels, was made firm, and each breaking of the law or each trespassing, and unobedience took just retribution of meed, (For if that word that was said by the angels, was made firm, and each trespass, and disobedience, received just retribution as a reward,) 
how shall we escape, if we despise so great an health? (or then how shall we escape, if we despise so great a salvation, or so great a deliverance?) Which, when it had taken beginning to be told out by the Lord, of them that heard (him), (it) is confirmed into us. 
For God witnessed together by miracles or by signs, and wonders, and great marvels, and diverse virtues, and partings or distributions of the Holy Ghost, by his will. (Because God testified by miracles or signs, and wonders, and great marvels, and various works of power, and distributions of the Holy Spirit, according to his will.) 
But not to (the) angels God subjected the world that is to coming, of which we speak. Forsooth not to angels God subjected the roundness of the earth to come, of which we speak. 
But some man witnessed in a place, and said, What thing is man, that thou art mindful of him, or man’s son, for thou visitest him? (But someone testified, in some place, and said, What is a man, that thou rememberest him, or a man’s son, that thou visitest him?) 
Thou hast made him a little less than (the) angels; thou hast crowned him with glory and honour; and thou hast ordained him on (or over) the works of thine hands. 
Thou hast made all things subject under his feet. And in that that he subjected all things to him, he left nothing unsubject to him. But now we see not yet all things subject to him; 
but we see him that was made a little less than (the) angels, Jesus, for the passion of death (or through the suffering of death), crowned with glory and honour, (so) that he through the grace of God should taste death for all men. 
For it beseemed him, for whom all things, and by whom all things were made, which had brought many sons into glory, and wasthe author or the maker of the health of them, that he had an end by passion. (For it seemed appropriate for him, for whom all things, and by whom all things (were made), who had brought many sons unto glory, (and was) the Maker of their salvation, that he met his end in suffering.) 
For he that halloweth, and they that be hallowed, be all of one; for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, 
saying, I shall tell thy name to my brethren; in the middle of the church I shall praise thee. 
And again, I shall be trusting into him; and again, Lo! I and my children, which God gave to me. 
Therefore for children communed to flesh and blood, and he also took part of the same, that by death he should destroy him that had lordship of death (or so that by death he would destroy him who had authority over death), that is to say, the devil, 
and that he should deliver them that by dread of death, by all life were bound to servage. (and that he would deliver those who by fear of death, for all their lives were bound in servitude or in slavery.) 
And he took never (the) angels, but he took the seed of Abraham. 
Wherefore he ought to be likened to brethren by all things, that he should be made merciful and a faithful bishop to God, that he should be merciful to the trespasses of the people. (And so he ought to be likened tohis brothers in all things, so that he would be made a merciful and faithful High Priest to God, and so that he would be merciful to the people’s trespasses.) 
For in that thing in which he suffered, and was tempted, he is mighty to help also them that be tempted. 
