GALATIANS.
Chapter 6.
Brethren, if a man be occupied in any guilt or overcome in any trespass, ye that be spiritual, inform ye or teach such one in (the) spirit of softness, or meekness, beholding thyself, lest that thou be tempted, falling in the same wise, (or lest thou be tested, failing in the same way, or in like manner). 
Each bear (the) other’s charges, and so ye shall fulfill the law of Christ. (Bear each other’s burdens, and so ye shall fulfill the law of the Messiah.) 
For who that troweth or guesseth that he be aught, when he is nought, he beguileth himself. (For he who thinketh that he is something, when he is really nothing, fooleth himself.) 
But each man prove his own work, and so he shall have glory only in himself, and not in another. 
For each man shall bear his own charge. (For each man shall bear his own burden.) 
He that is taught in word, commune he with him that teacheth him, in all goods or in all good things. 
Do not ye err, God is not scorned; for those things that a man soweth, those things he shall reap, or for why what things a man soweth, also these things he shall reap. 
For he that soweth in his flesh, of the flesh he shall reap corruption; but he that soweth in the Spirit, of the Spirit he shall reap everlasting life. 
And doing good fail we not; for in his time we shall reap, not failing. 
Therefore while we have time, work we good to all men; but most(ly) to them that be home-like or that be the household members of the faith. (And so while we have the time, do we good to all; but most of all to those who be members of the household, or the family, of faith.) 
See ye, what manner letters I have written to you with mine own hand. 
For whoever will please in the flesh, these constrain you to be circumcised, only that they suffer not the persecution of Christ’s cross (or so that they themselves shall not suffer persecution for the cross of the Messiah). 
For neither they that be circumcised keep the law; but they will (or they desire) that ye be circumcised, (so) that they have glory in your flesh. 
But far be it from me to have glory, no but in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world. 
For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision is anything (of) worth, nor prepuce, but a new creature. (For in Jesus Christ being circumcised is not worth anything, nor being uncircumcised, but only being a new creation.) 
And whoever shall(pur)sue this rule (or And whoever shall follow this rule), peace (be) on them, and mercy, and on (the) Israel of God. 
And hereafter or From henceforth, no man be heavy to me; for I bear in my body the tokens, or the wounds, of our Lord Jesus Christ (or for I bear on my body the signs, or the marks, of our Lord Jesus Christ). 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brethren. Amen. 
