JOHN.
Chapter 14.
Be not your heart afraid or distroubled, nor dread it, (or Let not your heart be troubled, nor let it have fear or let it be fearful); ye believe in God, and believe ye in me. 
In the house of my Father be many dwellings; if anything less, I had said to you, for I go to make ready to you a place (or for I go to prepare a place for you). 
And if I go, and make ready to you a place, (or And if I go, and prepare a place for you), again I shall come, and I shall take you (un)to myself, (so) that where I am, ye be. 
And whither I go, ye know, and ye know the way. 
Thomas saith to him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest, and how may we know the way? (Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where thou goest, so how can we know the way?) 
Jesus saith to him, I am (the) way, (the) truth, and (the) life; no man cometh to the Father, but by me. 
If ye had known me, soothly ye had known also my Father; and afterward ye shall know him, and ye have seen him. 
Philip saith to him, Lord, show to us the Father, and it sufficeth to us. 
Jesus saith to him, So long (a) time I am with you, and have ye not known me? Philip, he that seeth me, seeth also the Father. How sayest thou, show to us the Father? 
Believest thou not, that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me? The words that I speak to you, I speak not of myself; but the Father himself that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works. 
Believe ye not, that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me? Else believe ye for those works. 
Truly, truly, I say to you, (or Truly, I tell you the truth), if a man believeth in me, also he shall do the works that I do; and he shall do greater works than these, for I go to the Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, he that believeth in me, and he shall do the works that I do; and he shall do more works than these, for I go to the father. 
And whatever thing ye ask the Father in my name, I shall do this thing, (so) that the Father be glorified in the Son. 
If ye ask anything in my name, I shall do it. 
If ye love me, keep ye my commandments (or obey my commandments). 
And I shall pray the Father, and he shall give to you another Comforter, the Spirit of truth, to dwell with you into without end (or to remain with you forever); 
which Spirit the world may not take (or which Spirit the world cannot receive), for it seeth him not, neither knoweth him. But ye shall know him, for he shall dwell with you, and he shall be in you. 
I shall not leave you fatherless, I shall come to you. 
Yet a little, and the world seeth not now me or and the world seeth not me now; but ye shall see me, for I live, and ye shall live. 
In that day ye shall know, that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. 
He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them (or obeyeth them), he it is that loveth me; and he that loveth me, shall be loved of my Father (or shall be loved by my Father), and I shall love him, and I shall show to him myself. 
Judas saith to him, not he of Iscariot, Lord, what is done, (or Lord, why is it), that thou shalt show thyself to us, and not to the world? 
Jesus answered, and said to him, If any man loveth me, he shall keep my word(s), (or he shall obey my words); and my Father shall love him, and we shall come to him, and we shall dwell with him. 
He that loveth me not, keepeth not my words (or obeyeth not my words); and the word which ye have heard, is not mine, but the Father’s, that sent me. 
These things I have spoken to you, dwelling among you; 
but that Holy Ghost, the Comforter, whom the Father shall send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and shall show, or remember, to you all things, whatever things I shall say to you. (but the Holy Spirit, the Comforter, whom the Father shall send in my name, he shall teach you everything, and shall remind you of everything, whatever I have said to you.) 
Peace I leave to you, my peace I give to you; not as the world giveth, I give to you; be not your heart afraid or troubled, nor dread it, (or let not your heart be troubled, nor let it have fear or let it be fearful). 
Ye have heard, that I said to you, I go, and (then I shall) come (back) to you. If ye loved me, forsooth ye should have joy, for I go to the Father, for the Father is greater than I. 
And now I have said to you, before that it be done, (so) that when it is done, ye believe (it). 
Now I shall not speak many things with you; for the prince of this world cometh, and hath not in me anything, or and he hath not anything in me, (or and he hath no power over me). 
But (so) that the world know, that I love the Father; and as the Father gave a commandment to me, so I do (it). Rise ye, go we hence, (or Get up, let us go now). 
