PSALMS.
Chapter 63.
The psalm of David, when he was in the desert of Judah. God, my God, I wake to thee full early. My soul thirsted to thee; my flesh thirsted to thee full manyfold. In a land forsaken without way, and without water, (A song by David, when he was in the wilderness of Judah. God, my God, I wake up early, and I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee; my flesh greatly thirsteth for thee. Here in a desert/ed land, without a way, and without water.) 
so I appeared to thee in holy; that I should see thy virtue, and thy glory. (So I came to thee in the holy place; so that I could see thy strength, and thy glory.) 
For thy mercy is better than lives (or For thy love is better than living or is better than life itself); my lips shall praise thee. 
So I shall bless thee in my life; and in thy name I shall raise mine hands. (So I shall bless thee all my life; and in thy name I shall raise up my hands.) 
My soul be ful filled as with inner fatness and uttermore fatness; and my mouth shall praise with lips of full out joying (or and my mouth shall praise thee with lips of rejoicing). 
So I had mind on thee on my bed, in the morrowtides I shall think of thee; (And I remember thee as I lie on my bed, and in the morning, I think of thee;) 
for thou hast been mine helper. And in the covering of thy wings I shall make full out joy, (for thou hast been my helper. And under the covering of thy wings I shall make great joy,) 
my soul cleaved after thee; thy right hand took me up. (for my soul cleaveth to thee or for my soul followeth after thee; thy right hand lifteth me up.) 
Forsooth they sought in vain my life, they shall enter into the lower things of earth; (And they, who seek to take my life, shall enter into the lower things of the earth, that is, into Sheol;) 
they shall be betaken into the hands of sword, they shall be made the parts of foxes. (they shall be delivered into the hands of the sword, they shall be made a portion for foxes.) 
But the king shall be glad in God; and all men shall be praised that swear in him; for the mouth of them, that speak wicked things, is stopped. (But the king shall rejoice in God; and all those who swear by him shall praise him; for the mouths of them who speak wicked things shall be stopped.) 
