LUKE.
Chapter 13.
And some men were present in that time (or And there were some men who were present at that time), that told to him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate (had) mingled with the sacrifices of them. 
And he answered, and said to them, Ween ye that these men of Galilee were sinners more than all Galileans, for they suffered such things? (And he said to them, Do ye think that these men of Galilee were greater sinners than any other Galileans, because they suffered such things?) 
I say to you, nay; all ye shall perish in like manner, no but ye have penance (or unless ye repent). 
And as (for) those eighteen, on which the tower in Siloam fell down, and slew them, guess ye, that they were debtors more than all men that dwell in Jerusalem? 
I say to you, nay; but also all ye shall perish, if ye do not penance (or if ye do not repent). Nay, I say to you; but also ye all shall perish, if ye shall not do penance. 
And he said this likeness (or this parable), A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit in it, and found none. 
And he said to the tiller of the vineyard, Lo! three years be, since I come seeking fruit in this fig tree, and I find none; therefore cut it down, whereto occupieth it the earth? (or why should it take up any space in the ground?) 
And he answering said to him, Lord, suffer it also this year, the while I delve about it, and I shall dung it or and dung it; (And he answering said to him, Lord, allow it to remain this year, while I dig about it, and dung it;) 
if it shall make fruit, (or) else if not, in time coming thou shalt cut it down. 
And he was teaching in their synagogue in the sabbaths (or on the Sabbath). 
And lo! a woman, that had a spirit of sickness eighteen years, and was crooked or and was bowed down, and neither in any manner might look upward. 
Whom when Jesus had seen, he called her to him, and said to her, Woman, thou art delivered of thy sickness or thou art left (or thou art let go) of thy sickness. 
And he set on her his hands, and anon she stood upright, and glorified God. (And he put his hands upon her, and at once she stood upright, and praised God.) 
And the prince of the synagogue answered, having disdain for Jesus had healed in the sabbath; and he said to the people, There be six days, in which it behooveth to work; therefore come ye in these, and be ye healed, and not in the day of sabbath. (And the leader of the synagogue spoke, indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath; and he said to the people, There be six days, on which it behooveth to work; and so come here on them, and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day.) 
But the Lord answered to him, and said, Hypocrite, whether each of you untieth not in (or on) the sabbath his ox, or ass, from the cratch (or from the feed-trough), and leadeth (it) to water? +Forsooth the Lord answering to him said, Hypocrite, whether each of you in the sabbath untieth not his ox, or his ass, from the cratch, or the stall, and leadeth (it) to water? 
Behooved it not this daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo! eighteen years, to be unbound of this bond in the day of sabbath? (or on the Sabbath day?) 
And when he said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed, and all the people joyed in all (the) things, that were gloriously done of him (or that were wonderfully done by him). 
Therefore he said, To what thing is the kingdom of God like? and to what thing shall I guess it to be like? 
It is like to a corn of sinapi, which a man took, and cast into his garden or into his yard; and it waxed, and was made into a great tree, and fowls of the air rested in the branches thereof. (It is like a kernel, or a grain, of mustard seed, which a man took, and threw into his garden; and it grew, and was made into a great tree, and the birds of the air nested in its branches.) 
And again he said, To what thing shall I guess the kingdom of God like? 
It is like to sourdough that a woman took, and hid it in three measures of meal, till all were soured. (It is like the yeast, or the leaven, which a woman took, and put it in three measures of meal, until all of it was leavened.) 
And he went by cities and castles (or towns and villages), teaching and making journey into Jerusalem. 
And a man said to him, Lord, if there be few, that be saved? And he said to them, 
Strive ye to enter by the strait gate (or Strive to enter by the narrow gate); for I say to you, many seek to enter in, and they shall not be able (to). 
For when the husbandman is entered, and the door is closed, or For when the husbandman hath entered, and closed the door, ye shall begin to stand withoutforth, and knock at the door, and say, Lord, open to us. And he shall answer, and say to you, I know you not, of whence ye be. 
Then ye shall begin to say, We have eaten before thee and drunk or We have eaten and drunk before thee, and in our streets thou hast taught. 
And he shall say to you, I know you not, of whence ye be; go away from me, all ye workers of wickedness. 
There shall be weeping and grinding of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom of God; and you to be put out. 
And they shall come from the east and the west, and from the north and the south, and shall sit at the meat in the realm of God. (And they shall come from the east and the west, and from the north and the south, and shall sit down for the meal in the Kingdom of God.) 
And lo! they that were the first, be the last; and they that were the last, be the first. 
In that day some of the Pharisees came nigh, and said to him, Go out, and go from hence, for Herod will slay thee. 
And he said to them, Go ye, and say to that fox, Lo! I cast out fiends, and I make perfectly healings, today and tomorrow, and the third day I am ended. (And he said to them, Go, and say to that fox, Behold! today and tomorrow, I throw out devils and demons, and I make complete cures, and on the third day I have finished my work.) 
Nevertheless it behooveth me today, and tomorrow, and the day that (pur)sueth (or the day that followeth), to walk; for it falleth not for a prophet to perish out of Jerusalem. 
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that slayest (the) prophets, and stonest them that be sent to thee, how oft would I gather together thy sons, as a bird gathereth his nest under (his) feathers or under (his) wings, and thou wouldest not (let me). 
Lo! your house shall be left to you desert(ed). And I say to you, that ye shall not see me, till it come, when ye shall say, Blessed is he, that cometh in the name of the Lord. 
