PSALMS.
Chapter 136.
Alleluia. Acknowledge ye to the Lord, for he is good; for his mercy isinto without end. (Alleluia. Give ye thanks to the Lord, for he is good; for his love is forever.) 
Acknowledge ye to the God of gods. (Give ye thanks to the God of gods.) 
Acknowledge ye to the Lord of lords. (Give ye thanks to the Lord of lords.) 
Which alone maketh great marvels. (Who alone doeth marvellous deeds, or great miracles.) 
Which made heavens by understanding. (Who made the heavens by his wisdom.) 
Which made steadfast the earth on waters. (Who made the earth firm upon the waters.) 
Which made great lights. (Who made the great lights.) 
The sun into the power of the day. (The sun to have power over the day.) 
The moon and the stars into power of the night. (The moon and the stars to have power over the night.) 
Which smote Egypt with the first engendered things of them. (Who struck down the first-born of the Egyptians.) 
Which led out Israel from the midst of them. (Who led out Israel from their midst.) 
In a mighty hand, and in an high arm. (Yea, with a mighty hand, and a powerful arm.) 
Which parted the Red Sea into partings. (Who divided the Red Sea, or the Sea of Reeds, in two.) 
And led out Israel through the midst thereof. 
And he cast adown Pharaoh and his power, or virtue, in the Red Sea. (And he threw down Pharaoh, and his host, or his army, into the Red Sea, or the Sea of Reeds.) 
Which led over his people through desert. (Who led his people through the wilderness.) 
Which smote great kings. (Who struck down great kings.) 
And killed strong kings. 
Sihon, the king of Amorites. 
And Og, the king of Bashan. 
And he gave the land of them to be heritage. (And he gave their land for an inheritance to his people.) 
Heritage to Israel, his servant. (Yea, for an inheritance to his servant Israel.) 
For in our lowness he had mind on us. (For he remembered us in our defeat./For he remembered us when we were brought down so very low.) 
And he again-bought us from our enemies. (And he redeemed us, or he rescued us, from our enemies.) 
Which giveth meat to each flesh. (Who giveth food to all his creatures.) 
Acknowledge ye to the God of heaven. Acknowledge ye to the Lord of lords; for his mercy isinto without end. (Give ye thanks to the God of heaven. Give ye thanks to the Lord of lords; for his love is forever.) 
