MARK.
Chapter 15.
And anon in the morrowtide the high priests made a counsel with the elder men, and the scribes, and with all the council, and bound Jesus and led, and betook him to Pilate. (And at once when morning came, or early in the morning, the high priests made a plan with the elders, and the scribes, and with all the council, and bound Jesus and led him away, and delivered him to Pilate.) 
And Pilate asked him, Art thou king of Jews? (or Art thou the King of the Jews?) And Jesus answered, and said to him, Thou sayest. 
And the high priests accused him in many things. (And the high priests accused him of many things.) 
But Pilate again asked him (or But Pilate asked him again), and said, Answerest thou nothing? Seest thou in how many things they accuse thee? 
But Jesus answered nothing more, so that Pilate wondered. 
But by the feast day he was wont to leave to them, one of the men bound or one of the prisoners, whomever they asked. (But on the Feast Day his custom was to let go, or to release, to them, one of the prisoners, whomever they asked for.) 
And there was one that was said Barabbas, that was bound with men of dissension, that had done manslaughter in the sedition. 
And when the people was gone up, he began to pray (them), as he (for)evermore did to them. (And when the people had gathered, they began to beseech him, to do as he always did for them.) 
And Pilate answered to them, and said, Will ye that I leave to you the king of Jews? (And Pilate answered to them, Do ye desire that I let go, or that I release, the King of the Jews to you?) 
For he knew, that the high priests had taken him by envy. 
But the bishops stirred or excited the people, that he should rather leave to them Barabbas. (But the high priests stirred up, or excited, the people, so that rather he would let go, or release, Barabbas to them.) 
And again Pilate answered, and said to them, What then will ye that I shall do to the king of Jews? (And again Pilate asked them, Then what do ye want me to do with the King of the Jews?) 
And they again cried, Crucify him, that is, put him on the cross. 
But Pilate said to them, What evil hath he done? And they cried the more, Crucify him. 
And Pilate, willing to make satisfaction to the people, (or desiring to fulfill the will of the people), left to them Barabbas, (or let go, or released, Barabbas to them), and he betook to them Jesus, beaten with scourges, to be crucified. 
And (the) knights led him withinforth, into the porch of the moot hall. And they called together all the company of (the) knights, (And the soldiers led him outside, into the courtyard of the Hall of Judgement. And they called together all the company of the soldiers,) 
and they clothed him with purple. And they wreathed a crown of thorns, and put (it) on him. 
And they began to greet him, and said, Hail, king of Jews, (or Hail, King of the Jews). 
And they smote his head with a reed, and bespat him or and spat on him; and (then) they kneeled, and (mockingly) worshipped him. 
And after that they had scorned him, they unclothed him of the purple, and clothed him with his clothes, and led out him, to crucify him, (or and led him away, to crucify him). 
And they compelled a man that passed by the way, that came from the town, Simon of Cyrene, the father of Alexander and of Rufus, to bear his cross. 
And they led him into a place (called) Golgotha or And they led him into the place of Golgotha, that is to say, the place of Calvary. 
And they gave to him to drink wine meddled (or mixed) with myrrh or And they gave him for to drink wine meddled (or mixed) with myrrh, and he took (it) not (or but he would not drink it). 
And they crucified him, and parted his clothes, and cast lot(s) on those, who should take what. (And they crucified him, and divided up his clothes, and threw dice for them, for who should take what.) 
And it was the third hour (or about nine o’clock in the morning), and they crucified him. 
And the title of his cause was written, King of Jews. (And the charge against him was written out above him, The King of the Jews.) 
And they crucified with him two thieves, one at the right half, and one at his left half, or one on his right half, and one on his left half, (or one on his right side, and one on his left side). 
And the scripture was fulfilled that saith, And he is ordained with wicked men or And he is areckoned with wicked men. 
And as they passed forth, they blasphemed him, moving their heads, and saying, Vath! or Fie! thou that destroyest the temple of God, and in three days buildest it again; 
come adown from the cross, and make thyself safe (or and save thyself). 
Also the high priests scorned him each to (the) other, with the scribes, and said, He hath made other men safe, (but) he may not save himself. (And the high priests scorned him one to another, along with the scribes, saying, He hath saved other men, but he cannot save himself.) 
Christ, the king of Israel, come down now from the cross, that we see (it), and believe, (or Messiah, King of Israel, come down now from the cross, so that we can see it, and believe). And they that were crucified with him, despised him, or And they that were crucified with him, put false reproof to him. 
And when the sixth hour was come, darknesses were made on all the earth, till into the ninth hour. (And when it was almost noon, darkness was made upon all the land, and it continued until three o’clock.) 
And in the ninth hour (or And at three o’clock in the afternoon), Jesus cried with a great voice, and said, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani, that is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? 
And some of the men that stood about heard, and said, Lo! he calleth Elias, (or Behold! he calleth Elijah). 
And one ran, and filled a sponge with vinegar, and putted (it) about to a reed, and gave (it to) him to drink, and said, Suffer ye, see we, if Elias (or if Elijah) come to do him down. 
And Jesus gave out a great cry, and died or sent out the spirit. 
And the veil of the temple was rent or cut atwo, from the highest to beneath. (And the veil of the Temple was torn in two, from the top to the bottom.) 
But the centurion that stood over against saw, that he so crying had died, and he said, Verily, this man was God’s Son, or Verily, this man was the Son of God. (And the centurion, who stood opposite him, saw that after he crying out so had died, and he said, Truly, this man was the Son of God.) 
And there were also women beholding from afar, among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary, the mother of James the less, and of Joseph, and of Salome or and Salome. 
And when Jesus was in Galilee, they followed him, and ministered to him (or and served him), and many other women, that came up together with him to Jerusalem. 
And when the eventide was come, for it was the eventide that is before the sabbath, (And when it was evening, and so the day before the Sabbath,) 
Joseph of Arimathaea, the noble decurion, came, and he abode the realm of God (or and he was waiting for the Kingdom of God); and boldly he entered to Pilate, and asked (for) the body of Jesus. 
But Pilate wondered, if he were now dead. And when the centurion was called, he asked him, if he were now dead; (But Pilate wondered, if he was already dead. And when the centurion was called, he asked him, if he was already dead;) 
and when he knew of the centurion, he granted the body of Jesus to Joseph or he gave the body of Jesus to Joseph. (and when he knew this from the centurion, he gave Joseph permission to take down Jesus’ body.) 
And Joseph bought linen cloth or (a) sendal, and took him down, and wrapped him in the linen cloth, and laid him in a sepulchre that was hewn of a stone or and put him in a new sepulchre that was hewn in a stone, and wallowed a stone to the door of the sepulchre (or and rolled a stone against the door of the tomb). 
And Mary Magdalene and Mary of Joseph beheld, where he was laid. 
