2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 13.
Lo! this third time I come to you, and in the mouth of two or of three witnesses every word shall stand. 
I said before, and say before, as present twice, and now absent, to them that before have sinned, and to all others; for if I come again, I shall not spare (you). 
Whether ye seek the proof or (the) assaying of that Christ, that speaketh in me, which is not feeble in you, but is mighty in you? (Do ye seek the proof of that Messiah, who speaketh through me, who is not frail or weak in you, but is mighty and powerful?) 
For though he was crucified of infirmity, but he liveth of the virtue of God. For also we be sick in him, but we shall live with him of the virtue of God in us. (For though he was crucified in weakness, now he liveth by the power of God. For we also be frail or weak in him, but we shall live with him by the power of God in us.) 
Assay yourselves, if ye be in the faith; ye yourselves prove (it). Whether ye know not yourselves, for Christ Jesus is in you? no but in hap ye be reprovable. (Test yourselves, if ye be in the faith; ye yourselves prove it. Do ye not know, that the Messiah Jesus is in you? unless perhaps ye be reproachable.) 
But I hope, that ye know, that we be not reprovable. (But I hope, that ye know, that we be not reproachable.) 
And we pray the Lord, that ye do nothing of evil; not that we seem proved (or not that we be seen as to have been proven correct), but that ye do that that is good, and that we be as reprovable. 
For we may do nothing against (the) truth, but, (rather), for the truth. 
For we joy, when we be sick, but ye be mighty; and we pray (for) this thing, (yea), your perfection. (For we rejoice, when we be frail or weak, but ye be strong or powerful; and we pray for this thing, yea, for your completion.) 
Therefore I absent write these things, that (when) I (am) present do not harder, (or so that when I come there, I do not have to be harsher), by the power, which the Lord gave to me into edification, and not into your destruction. 
Brethren (or Brothers), henceforward joy ye, be ye perfect, excite ye or and teach ye; understand ye the same thing; have ye peace, and (the) God of peace and of love shall be with you. 
Greet ye well together in holy kiss. (Give hearty greetings to one another with a holy kiss.) 
All holy men greet you well. (All the saints, or All of God’s people, send you hearty greetings.) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the charity of God, and the communing of the Holy Ghost, be with you all. Amen. (The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communing of the Holy Spirit, be with you all. Amen.) 
