MARK.
Chapter 8.
In those days, when much people was with Jesus, and had not what they should eat, when his disciples were called together, he said to them, 
I have ruth on the people, for lo! now the third day they abide me, and they have not what to eat; (I have compassion for the people, for behold! now it is the third day that they be with me, and they have nothing to eat;) 
and if I leave them fasting into their houses, they shall fail in the way; for some of them came from (a)far. (and if I let them go fasting unto their houses, they shall faint on the way; for some of them came from afar.) 
And his disciples answered to him, Whereof shall a man be able to fill them with loaves here in (the) wilderness? 
And he asked them, How many loaves have ye? Which said, Seven. 
And he commanded the people to sit down on the earth (or And he commanded the people to sit down on the ground). And he took the seven loaves, and did thankings (or and gave thanks), and brake (them), and gave (them) to his disciples, (so) that they should set (them) forth. And they setted (them) forth to the people. 
And they had a few small fishes; and he blessed them, and commanded, that they were set forth (also). 
And they ate, and were fulfilled, or And they ate, and were filled; and they took up that that was left of the remnants, seven baskets (full). (And they ate, and were filled full; and they gathered up the remaining pieces of food that were left, seven baskets full.) 
And they that ate, were as four thousand of men; and he left them. (And those who ate, were four thousand people; and then he dismissed them, or and then he let them go.) 
And anon (or at once) he went up into a boat, with his disciples, and came into the coasts of Dalmanutha. 
And the Pharisees went out, and began to dispute with him, and asked a token of him from heaven, and tempted him. (And the Pharisees went out, and began to argue with him, and asked him for a sign from heaven, and tested him.) 
And he sorrowing within in spirit, said, What seeketh this generation a token, or a sign, either (a) miracle? Truly I say to you, a token or a sign shall not be given to this generation. (And he sorrowing within himself, said, Why seeketh this generation a sign? I tell you the truth, a sign shall not be given to this generation.) 
And he left them, and went up again into a boat, and went over the sea (or and went over the lake). 
And they forgot to take bread, and they had not with them no but one loaf in the boat. 
And he commanded to them, and said, See ye, and beware of the sourdough of the Pharisees, and of the sourdough of Herod. (And he said to them, Watch out, and beware of the yeast, or the leaven, of the Pharisees, and of the yeast, or the leaven, of Herod.) 
And they thought, and said one to another, For we have not (brought any) loaves or For we have not (brought any) bread. 
And when this thing was known, Jesus said to them, What think ye, for ye have not loaves? (or Why do ye think about, or talk about, not having any bread?) Yet ye know not, neither understand; yet ye have your heart(s) blinded. 
Ye having eyes, see not, and ye having ears, hear not; neither ye have mind (or nor ye remember), 
when I brake five loaves among five thousand, and how many coffins full of broken meat took ye up? (or and how many baskets full of pieces of food did ye gather up?) They said to him, Twelve. 
When also seven loaves among four thousand of men, how many baskets full of broken meat took ye up? (or how many baskets full of pieces of food did ye gather up?) And they say to him, Seven. 
And he said to them, How understand ye not yet? 
And they came to Bethsaida, and they brought to him a blind man, and they prayed him, that he would touch him. 
And when he had taken the blind man’s hand, he led him out of the street (or he led him out of the village), and he spat into his eyes, and set his hands on him; and he asked him, if he saw anything. 
And he beheld, and said, I see men as trees walking (about). 
Afterward again he set his hands on his eyes, and he began to see, and he was restored, so that he saw clearly all things (or so that he saw everything clearly). 
And he sent him into his house, and said, Go into thine house; and if thou goest into the street, say to no man. 
And Jesus entered in and his disciples, into the castles of Caesarea of Philippi. And in the way, he asked his disciples, and said to them, Whom say men that I am? (And Jesus and his disciples went to the villages of Caesarea of Philippi. And on the way, he asked his disciples, Who do people say that I am?) 
Which answered to him, and said, Some say, John (the) Baptist; others say, Elias (or Elijah); and others say, as one of the prophets. 
Then he saith to them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answered, and said to him, Thou art Christ (or Thou art the Messiah). 
And he charged them, that they should not say of him to any man. (And he commanded them, that they should not say this about him to anyone.) 
And he began to teach them, that it behooveth man’s Son to suffer many things, and to be reproved of the elder men, and of the highest priests, and of the scribes, (or and to be rejected by the elders, and by the high priests, and by the scribes), and to be slain, and after three days, to rise again. 
And he spake openly the word. And Peter took (hold of) him, and began to blame him or And Peter taking (hold of) him, began to blame him, and said, Lord, be thou merciful to thee, for this shall not be. (And he openly spoke these words. And Peter took hold of him, and began to rebuke him, and said, Lord, be thou merciful to thyself, do not let this be, or do not let this happen.) 
And he turned, and saw his disciples, and menaced Peter (or and threatened Peter), and said (to him), Go after me, thou Satan; for thou savourest not those things that be of God or for thou understandest not those things that be of God, (no) but those things that be of men. 
And when the people was called together, with his disciples, he said to them, If any man will come after me, deny he himself, and take his cross, and (pur)sue he me, or and (pur)sue me, (or and follow me). 
For he that will make safe his life, shall lose it, or Soothly whoso(ever) will make his soul, that is, his life, safe, shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for me, and for the gospel, shall make it safe. (For he who will save his life, shall lose it; and he who loseth his life for me, and for the Gospel or the Good News, shall save it.) 
For what profiteth it to a man, if he win all the world, and do impairing to his own soul? 
or what (ex)changing shall a man give for his soul? 
But who that acknowledgeth me and my words, in this generation adulterous and sinful (or in this sinful and adulterous generation), also man’s Son shall acknowledge him, when he shall come in the glory of his Father, with his angels. 
