MATTHEW.
Chapter 14.
In that time Herod tetrarch, that is, (the) prince of the fourth part, heard (of) the fame of Jesus; 
and said to his children, This is John (the) Baptist, he is risen from death or he hath risen from (the) dead, and therefore virtues work in him, (or and that is why works of power, or miracles, can be done by him). 
For Herod had (taken) hold (of) John, and bound him, and putted him in prison for Herodias, the wife of his brother. 
For John said to him, It is not leaveful to thee to have her. (For John said to him, It is not lawful for thee to have her as your wife.) 
And he willing to slay him, dreaded the people; for they had him as a prophet. (And he wanted to kill him, but he feared the people; for they said that he was a prophet.) 
But in the day of Herod’s birth (or But on Herod’s birthday), the daughter of Herodias danced in the middle, and pleased Herod. 
Wherefore with an oath he promised to give to her, whatever thing she asked of him. 
And she before-warned of her mother, said, or And she before-admonished of her mother, saith, (or And having earlier been admonished by her mother, she answered), Give thou to me here the head of John (the) Baptist in a dish. 
And the king was sorrowful, but for the oath, and for them that sat together at the meat, (or but because of his promise, or his oath, and because of those who sat together with him at the meal), he commanded (it) to be given (to her). 
And he sent (word), and beheaded John in the prison. 
And his head was brought in a dish, and it was given to the damsel, and she bare it to her mother (or and she carried it to her mother). 
And his disciples came, and took his body, and buried it; and they came, and told to Jesus. 
And when Jesus had heard (about) this thing, he went from thence in a boat, into a desert place beside. And when the people had heard, they followed him on their feet from (the) cities. 
And Jesus went out, and saw a great people or a great multitude, and had ruth on them (or and had compassion for them), and he healed the sick men (and women and children) of them. 
But when eventide was come, his disciples came to him, and said, The place is (a) desert, and the time is now passed; let the people go into (the) towns, to buy them(selves) meat (or to buy some food for themselves). 
Jesus said to them, They have not need to go or They have no need to go; give ye them somewhat to eat (or you give them something to eat). 
They answered, We have not here, no but five loaves and two fishes. 
And he said to them, Bring ye them hither to me (or Bring them here to me). 
And when he had commanded the people to sit to the meat on the hay (or And when he had commanded the people to sit down on the hay for the meal), he took (the) five loaves and (the) two fishes, and he beheld into heaven, and blessed (or and gave thanks), and brake (them), and gave (the) loaves to his disciples; and the disciples gave (them) to the people. 
And all ate, and were fulfilled, or And all ate, and were filled. And they took the remnants of broken gobbets, twelve coffins full, (or And they gathered up the remaining pieces of food, twelve baskets full). 
And the number of men that ate was five thousand of men, without (the) women and (the) little children. 
And anon (or at once) Jesus compelled the disciples to go up into a boat, and to go before him over the sea, while he left the people, (or while he dismissed the people, or let them go). 
And when the people was left, he ascended alone into an hill to pray, (or And after the people were dismissed, or let go, he went up alone onto a hill to pray). But when the evening was come, he was there alone. 
And the boat in the middle of the sea was shogged with (the) waves, for the wind was contrary to them. +Forsooth the boat in the midst of the sea was thrown (about) with (the) waves, for the wind was contrary to them. 
But in the fourth waking of the night, he came to them walking on the sea. (But about the fourth watch of the night, he came to them walking on the lake.) 
And they, seeing him walking on the sea, were disturbed or were distroubled, and said, That it is a phantom; and for dread they cried (or and they cried out in fear). 
And anon Jesus spake to them, and said, Have ye trust, I am (he); do not ye dread. (And at once Jesus spoke to them, and said, Have trust, it is me; do not fear.) 
And Peter answered, and said, Lord, if thou art (thee), (or if it is thee), command me to come to thee on the waters. 
And he said, Come thou. And Peter went down from the boat, and walked on the waters to come to Jesus. 
But he saw the wind strong, and was afeared; and when he began to drench, he cried, and said, Lord, make me safe. (But when he saw the strength of the wind, he was afraid; and when he began to drown, he cried, and said, Lord, save me.) 
And anon (or at once) Jesus held forth his hand, and took Peteror (and) caught him, and said to him, Thou of little faith, why hast thou doubted? 
And when he had ascended into the boat, the wind ceased. (And when he had gone up into the boat, the wind ceased.) 
And they, that were in the boat, came, and worshipped him, and said, Verily, thou art God’s Son (or Truly, thou art the Son of God). 
And when they had passed over the sea, they came into the land of Gennesaret. 
And when men of that place had known him, they sent into all that country(side), (or they sent word throughout all that region); and they brought to him all that had sicknesses or and they brought to him all having evil. 
And they prayed him, that they should touch the hem of his clothing; and whoever touched (it) were made safe (or and whoever touched it were healed). 
