ROMANS.
Chapter 8.
Therefore now nothing of condem-nation is to them that be in Christ Jesus, which wander not after the flesh. (And so now there is no condemnation for those who be in the Messiah Jesus, who do not walk, or go, according to the flesh.) 
For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath delivered me from the law of sin, and of death or and death. (For the law of the Spirit of life in the Messiah Jesus hath delivered me from the law of sin, and of death.) 
For that that was impossible to the law, in what thing it was sick by (the) flesh, (or For that which was impossible for the Law, because the flesh was frail or weak), God sent his Son into the likeness of (the) flesh of sin, and of sin condemned sin in (the) flesh; 
(so) that the justifying of the law were fulfilled in us, (so) that we go not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. 
For they that be after the flesh, understand or savour those things that be of the flesh; but they that be after the Spirit, feel (or experience) those things that be of the Spirit. 
For the prudence (or the wisdom) of (the) flesh is death; but the prudence (or the wisdom) of (the) Spirit is life and peace. 
For the wisdom of the flesh is enemy to God; for it is not subject to the law of God, for neither it may be subject to the law, (or nor could it be subject to the law). 
And they that be in (the) flesh, may not please to God. (And those who be in the flesh, cannot please God.) 
But ye be not in (the) flesh, but in (the) Spirit; if nevertheless the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. But if any man hath not the Spirit of Christ, this is not his. 
For if Christ is in you, the body is dead for sin or the body is dead from sin, but the Spirit liveth for justifying. (For if the Messiah is in you, then though the body shall die because of sin, the Spirit shall give life to you, because you have been justified.) 
And if the Spirit of him that raised Jesus Christ from death dwelleth in you, (then) he that raised Jesus Christ from death, shall quicken also your deadly bodies, for the Spirit of him that dwelleth in you. +For if the Spirit of him that raised Jesus Christ from (the) dead dwelleth in you, (then) he that raised Jesus Christ from (the) dead, shall quicken also your deadly bodies, for the Spirit of him is dwelling in you.(And if the Spirit of him who raised Jesus Christ from the dead liveth in you, then he who raised Jesus Christ from the dead, shall also enliven, or shall give life, to your mortal bodies, through the Spirit of him who liveth in you.) 
Therefore, brethren, we be debtors, not to the flesh, (so) that we live after (or according to) the flesh. 
For if ye live after (or according to) the flesh, ye shall die; but if ye by the Spirit slay the deeds of the flesh, ye shall live. 
For whoever be led by the Spirit of God, these be the sons of God. 
For ye have not taken again the spirit of servage in dread, but ye have taken the Spirit of adoption of sons, that is, sons of God by grace, in which we cry, Abba, Father. (For ye have not received the spirit of servitude, or of slavery, in fear, but ye have received the Spirit of the adoption of sons, that is, sons of God by grace, in which we cry, Abba, or Father.) 
And that Spirit yieldeth witnessing (or testifieth) to our spirit, that we be the sons of God; 
if sons, and heirs, heirs forsooth of God, and heirs together with Christ, or soothly heirs of God, truly even-heirs of Christ, (or truly heirs of God, and fellow heirs with the Messiah); if nevertheless we suffer together, (so) that also we be glorified together. 
And I deem, that the passions of this time be not even worthy, to the glory to coming or to the glory to come, that shall be showed in us. (And I judge, that the sufferings of this time be not worthy of any comparison, to the glory that is to come, that shall be showed to us, or which shall be given to us.) 
For the abiding of creature (or of all Creation) abideth the showing of the sons of God. 
But the creature is subject to vanity, not willing(ly), but for him that made it subject in hope; (But all Creation is subject to emptiness and futility, not out of free will, or of its own choice, but because of him who made it so, but also with hope;) 
for that creature shall be delivered from servage of corruption into the liberty of the glory of the sons of God. (for that Creation shall be set free from the servitude, or the slavery, of corruption into the freedom of the glory of the sons of God.) 
And we know, that each creature (or that all Creation) sorroweth, and travaileth with pain till yet. 
And not only it, but also we us-selves, that have the first fruits of the Spirit, and we us-selves sorrow within us for the adoption of God’s sons, abiding the again-buying of our body (or awaiting the redemption of our body). 
But by hope we be made safe (or But through hope we be saved). For hope that is seen, is not hope; for who hopeth (for) that thing, that he seeth? 
And if we hope (for) that thing that we see not, we abide by patience. 
And also the Spirit helpeth our infirmity; for what we shall pray, as it behooveth, we know not, but that Spirit asketh for us with sorrowings, that may not be told out. (And the Spirit also helpeth our frailty or weakness; because we do not know what we ought to pray for, or because we do not know how we should pray, but that Spirit asketh for us with groanings, that cannot be told out.) 
For he that seeketh the hearts, knoweth what the Spirit desireth, for by God, that is, after God’s will, he asketh for (the) holy men. 
And we know, that to men that love God, all things work together into good, to them that after (the) purpose be called saints (or for them who according to his purpose be called God’s people). 
For those that he knew before, he before-ordained by grace to be made like to the image of his Son, (so) that he be the first begotten among many brethren. 
And those that he before-ordained to bless, them he called; and whom he called, them he justified; and whom he justified, them he glorified. 
What then shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who is against us? 
Which also spared not his own Son, but betook him for us all (or but delivered him for us all), how also gave he not to us all things with him? 
Who shall accuse against the chosen men of God? It is God that justifieth, 
who is it that condemneth? It is Jesus Christ that was dead, yea, the which rose again, the which is on the right half of God, and the which prayeth for us. (who is it who condemneth? It is Jesus Christ, who died, yea, who rose again, who is on the right side, or at the right hand, of God, and who prayeth for us.) 
Who then shall part us from the charity of Christ? (or What then shall separate us from the love of the Messiah?) tribulation, or anguish, or hunger, or nakedness, or persecution, or peril, or (the) sword? 
As it is written, For we be slain all day for thee; we be guessed as (the) sheep of slaughter, or we be guessed as sheep to slaughter, (or we have been thought of, or we have been treated like, sheep for the slaughter). 
But in all these things we overcome, for him that loved us (or through him who loved us). 
But I am certain, that neither death, neither life, neither angels, neither principats (or principalities), neither virtues (or powers), neither present things, neither things to coming or neither things to come, neither strength, 
neither height, neither deepness, neither any other creature, may part us from the charity of God, that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. (neither height, nor depth, nor anything else in all Creation, can separate us from the love of God, that is in the Messiah Jesus our Lord.) 
