2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 12.
If it behooveth to have glory, it speedeth not (or It is not expedient to boast); but I shall come to the visions and the revelations of the Lord. 
I know a man in Christ that before fourteen years; whether in body, whether out of body, I know not, God knoweth; that such a man was ravished unto the third heaven. (I know a man in the Messiah who fourteen years ago; whether in the body, or out of the body, I do not know, but God knoweth; that man was snatched up into the third heaven.) 
And I know such a man; whether in body, or out of body, I know not, God knoweth; (And I know that this man, whether in the body, or out of the body, I do not know, but God knoweth;) 
that he was ravished into paradise, and heard privy words, which it is not leaveful to a man to speak. (that he was snatched up into paradise, and heard private or secret words, which it is not lawful for a man to speak or tell out.) 
For such manner things I shall glory (in); but (as) for me nothing, but in mine infirmities. (About such a man as this, I shall boast; but about myself nothing, except for my frailties and weaknesses.) 
For if I shall desire to glory (or For if I wish to boast), I shall not be unwise, for I shall say (the) truth; but I spare (thee), lest any man guess me over that thing that he seeth in me, or heareth anything of me. 
And lest the greatness of (these) revelations enhance me, (or exalt me, or raise me up), in pride, the prick of my flesh, an angel of Satan, is given to me, (so) that he buffet me. 
For which thing thrice I prayed the Lord, that it should go away from me. 
And he said to me, My grace sufficeth to thee; for virtue is perfectly made in infirmity. Therefore gladly I shall glory in mine infirmities, that the virtue of Christ dwell in me. (And he said to me, My grace sufficeth for thee; for power is made perfect in frailty or weakness. And so I shall gladly boast of my frailties and weaknesses, so that the power of the Messiah can live in me.) 
For which thing I am pleased in mine infirmities, in despisings, or reprovings, in needs, in persecutions, in anguishes, for Christ; for when I am sick, then I am mighty. (And so I am content in my frailties and weaknesses, in despisings, or reproaches, in needs, in persecutions, in anguishes, for the Messiah; for when I am frail or weak, then I am mighty.) 
I am made unwitty (or witless), ye constrained me. For I ought to be commended of you; for I did nothing less than they that be apostles over-measure. Though I am nought, (But I am being foolish, and ye compelled me. For I ought to be commended by you; for I did nothing less than those who be apostles over-measure or who be the greatest apostles. Although I am nothing,) 
nevertheless the signs of mine apostlehood be made on you, in all patience, and signs (or miracles), and great wonders, and virtues (or works of power). 
And what is it, that ye had less than (the) other churches, no but that I myself grieved you not, betaking (nothing) of you? (or taking nothing from you?) Forgive ye to me this wrong. 
Lo! this third time I am ready to come to you, and I shall not be grievous to you; for I seek not those things that be yours, but you. For neither sons owe to make treasure to father and mother (or For sons ought not to give treasure to their father and mother), but the father and mother to the sons. 
For I shall give most willfully (or For I shall give most willingly or out of my free will), and I myself shall be given over for your souls; though I more love you, and be less loved. 
But (so) be it; I grieved not you, but when I was subtle or wily, I took you with guile. 
Whether I deceived you by any of them, which I sent to you? 
I prayed Titus, and I sent with him a brother. Whether Titus beguiled you? whether we went not in the same spirit? whether not in the same steps? 
Sometime ye ween (or ye guess), that we shall excuse us with you. Before God in Christ we speak (or In the presence of God, we speak in the Messiah); and, most dear brethren, all things for your edifying. 
But I dread, lest when I come, I shall not find you such as I will, and I shall be found of you such as ye will not, (or But I fear, that when I come there, I shall not find you such as I want, or as I desire, and that I shall be found by you such as ye do not want, or as ye do not desire); lest peradventure strivings, envies, indignations, dissensions and detractions, privy speeches of discord, swellings by pride, debates be among you; 
and lest again when I come, God make me low or make me humble with you, and I bewail many of them, that before sinned, and did not penance on the uncleanness (or and who did not repent for the uncleanness), and fornication, and unchastity, that they have done. 
