2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 8.
But, brethren, we make known to you the grace of God, that is given in the churches of Macedonia, 
that in much assaying of tribulation, the plenty or the abundance of the joy of them was, and the highest poverty of them was plenteous into the riches of the simpleness of them (or their sincerity). 
For I bear witnessing to them, after might, or after power, and above might they were willful, (For I testify about them, yea, about their power, and even over their power, or beyond their limit, they were willing,) 
with much admonishing beseeching us (for) the grace and the communing of (the) ministering or of the ministry that is made to holy men. 
And not as we hoped, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, afterward to us by the will of God. 
So that we prayed Titus, that as he began, so also he perform in you this grace. 
But as ye abound in all things, in faith, and word, and cunning, (or and knowing), or and science, and all busyness, moreover and in your charity into us, that also in this grace ye abound. (But as ye abound in all things, in faith, and word, and knowledge, and all zeal, and moreover in your love for us, so that also in this gift ye abound.) 
I say not as commanding, but by the busyness of other men proving also the good wit of your charity. (I say not as commanding, but by telling you of the concern of other men, I am proving, or testing, the good thoughts or the sincerity of your love.) 
And ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, for he was made needy for you, when he was rich, (so) that ye should be made rich by his neediness. 
And I give counsel in this thing; for this is profitable to you, that not only have begun to do, but also ye began to have will (or to have desire) from the former year. 
But now perform ye in deed, that as the discretion of will is ready to desire good, so be it also of performing of that that ye have. 
For if the will be ready, it is accepted after that that it hath, not after that that it hath not. 
And not that it be (a) remission, or idleness, or sloth, to other men, and to you tribulation; 
but of evenness in the present time your abundance fulfill the need of them, (so) that also the abundance of them be a fulfilling of your need, (so) that evenness be made; 
as it is written, He that gathered much, was not increased, and he that gathered little, had not less. 
And I do thankings to God, that gave the same busyness for you in the heart of Titus, (And I give thanks to God, who put the same concern for you in Titus’ heart,) 
for he received exhortation; but when he was busier, by his will he went forth to you. 
And we sent with him a brother, whose praising is in the gospel by all (the) churches. (And we sent a brother with him, who is praised by all the churches for his service to, or his preaching of, the Gospel or the Good News.) 
And not only praised, but also he is ordained of churches (as) the fellow of our pilgrimage into this grace, that is ministered of us, to the glory of the Lord, and to our ordained will; (And not only praised, but he is also ordained by the churches as the partner of our pilgrimage in this grace, that is administered by us, for the glory of the Lord, and unto our ordained will;) 
eschewing this thing, that no man blame us in this plenty, that is ministered of us, to the glory of the Lord. (shunning this, so that no one can reproach us regarding this plenty, that is administered by us, for the glory of the Lord.) 
For we purvey good things, not only before God, but also before all men. 
For we sent with them also our brother, whom we have proved in many things oft, that he was busy, but now much busier, for much trust in you, 
either for Titus, that is my fellow and helper in you, either for our brethren, (the) apostles of the churches of the glory of Christ. (either for Titus, who is my fellow and helper with you, or for our brothers, the apostles of the churches to the glory of the Messiah.) 
Therefore show ye to them in the face of (the) churches, that showing that is of your charity (or that showing of your love), and of our glory for you. 
