MARK.
Chapter 16.
And when the sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene, and Mary of James, and Salome bought sweet smelling ointments, to come and to anoint Jesus. 
And full early in one of the week days (or And very early on the first day of the week), they came to the sepulchre, when the sun was risen. 
And they said together, Who shall move away to us the stone from the door of the sepulchre? or Who shall turn away to us the stone from the door of the sepulchre?(And as they arrived they said to each other, Who shall move away the stone from the door of the tomb for us? For the stone was very large and very heavy.) 
And they beheld, and saw the stone wallowed away, for it was full great. (But when they looked, they saw that the stone had already been rolled away.) 
And they went into the sepulchre, and saw a youngling, covered with a white stole, sitting at the right half; and they were afeared. (And they went into the tomb, and saw a young person, clothed in a white stole, sitting on the right side; and they were afraid.) 
Which saith to them, Do not ye dread; ye seek Jesus of Nazareth crucified, (or But he said to them, Do not fear; ye seek Jesus of Nazareth who was crucified); he is risen, he is not here; lo! the place where they laid him. 
But go ye, and say to his disciples, and to Peter, that he shall go before you into Galilee; there ye shall see him, as he said to you. 
And they went out, and fled from the sepulchre; for dread and quaking had assailed them or for dread and trembling had assailed them, and to no man they said anything, for they dreaded. (And they went out, and fled from the tomb; for fear and trembling had assailed them, but they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid.) 
And Jesus rose early the first day of the week, and appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven devils (or from whom he had thrown out seven demons). 
And she went, and told to them that had been with him, which were(or who were) wailing and weeping or mourning and weeping. 
And they hearing that he lived, and was seen of her (or and was seen by her), believed not. 
But after these things when twain of them wandered (or were walking), he was showed in another likeness to them going into a town. +Forsooth after these things, he was showed in another likeness, or figure, to twain of them walking and going into a town. 
And they went, and told to the others, and neither they believed to them. 
But after(ward) at the last, when the eleven sat at the meat, Jesus appeared to them, and reproved the unbelief of them, and the hardness of (their) heart(s), for they believed not to them, that had seen that he was risen from death or that had seen him to have risen from (the) dead. (But later, when the Eleven sat at a meal, Jesus appeared to them, and rebuked them for their unbelief, and for the hardness or the stubbornness of their hearts, for they did not believe those, who had seen that he was risen from the dead.) 
And he said to them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to each creature. (And he said to them, Go into all the world, and preach the Gospel, or the Good News, to all Creation, or to everyone.) 
Who that believeth, and is baptized, shall be safe (or shall be saved); but he that believeth not, shall be condemned. +He that shall believe, and shall be christened, shall be saved; soothly he that shall not believe, shall be damned. 
And these tokens or these signs shall (pur)sue them, that believe. In my name they shall cast out fiends; they shall speak with new tongues; (And these signs shall follow those who believe. In my name they shall throw out devils and demons; they shall speak in new and strange languages;) 
they shall do away serpents; and if they drink any venom, or (any) deadly thing, it shall not annoy (or shall not harm) them. They shall set their hands on sick men, and they shall wax whole, (or They shall put their hands on the sick, and they shall grow whole, or they shall be healed). 
And the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven, and he sitteth on the right half of God (or and he sitteth at the right hand, or on the right side, of God). 
And they went forth, and preached everywhere, for the Lord wrought or working with them, and confirmed the word with signs, either miracles, following. 
