PSALMS.
Chapter 34.
To David, when he changed his mouth, or his word, before Abimelech, and he drove out David, and he went forth. The psalm of David, when he changed his cheer before Abimelech, and he left him (or and so he let him go), and he went away. I shall bless the Lord in all time; evermore his praising be in my mouth. (A song by David, when he changed his face, and his words, before Abimelech, who then drove out David or sent him away, and so he went forth. I shall always bless the Lord; his praises shall be in my mouth forevermore.) 
My soul shall be praised in the Lord; mild men hear, and be glad. (My soul shall have glory in the Lord; let the humble hear, and be glad.) 
Magnify ye the Lord with me; and enhance we his name into itself (or and let us exalt his name together). 
I sought the Lord, and he heard me; and he delivered me from all my tribulations (or and he rescued, or saved, me, from all of my troubles). 
Nigh ye to him, and be ye lightened, (or Go ye near to him, and ye shall shine with joy); and your faces shall not be shamed. 
This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him; and saved him from all his tribulations. 
The angel of the Lord sendeth in the compass of men dreading him; and he shall deliver them. (The angel of the Lord guardeth those who fear him or who revere him; and he rescueth them.) 
Taste ye, and see, for the Lord is sweet; blessed is the man, that hopeth in him. (Taste ye, and see, that the Lord is good; happy is the person, who trusteth in him.) 
All ye holy men of the Lord, dread ye him; for no neediness is to men dreading him. (All ye holy people of the Lord, fear him; for there is no neediness in those who fear him./All ye holy people of the Lord, revere him; for there is no neediness in those who revere him.) 
Rich men were needy, and were hungry; but men that seek the Lord shall not fail of all good (or but those who seek the Lord shall not lack any good thing). 
Come, ye sons, hear ye me; I shall teach you the dread of the Lord. (Come, ye sons and daughters, and listen ye to me; I shall teach you the fear of the Lord or I shall teach you to revere the Lord.) 
Who is the man, that willeth life; that loveth to see good days? (Who is the person who desireth life? who loveth to see good days?) 
Forbid thy tongue from evil; and thy lips speak not guile (or and do not let thy lips speak deceitfully). 
Turn thou away from evil, and do good; seek thou peace, and perfectly follow thou it. 
The eyes of the Lord be on just men (or The eyes of the Lord be on the righteous); and his ears be to their prayers. 
But the cheer of the Lord is on men doing evils; that he lose the mind of them from the earth. (But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil; and he shall blot out the memory of them from off the earth.) 
Just men cried or The rightwise cried, and the Lord heard them; and delivered them from all their tribulations (or and he rescued, or saved, them from all their troubles). 
The Lord is nigh to them that be of troubled heart; and he shall save meek men in spirit. (The Lord is near to those who have a troubled heart; and he saveth those whose spirit is meek, or is humble.) 
Many tribulations be of just men; and the Lord shall deliver them from all these. (Many troubles be to the righteous; but the Lord shall rescue, or save, them out of all of them.) 
The Lord keepeth all the bones of them; one of those shall not be broken. (The Lord guardeth, or keepeth safe, all their bones; not one of them shall be broken.) 
The death of sinners is worst; and they that hate a just man shall trespass. (The death of sinners is brought about by the Worst or Evil bringeth about the death of sinners; and those who hate the righteous shall be punished.) 
The Lord shall again-buy the souls of his servants; and all, that hope in him, shall not trespass. (But the Lord redeemeth, or ransometh, the souls of his servants; and all who trust in him, shall not go astray.) 
