MATTHEW.
Chapter 2.
Therefore when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of king Herod, lo! astronomers, (or behold! astrologers), or lo! kings, or wise men, came from the east to Jerusalem, 
and said, Where is he, that is born the king of (the) Jews? for we have seen his star in the east, and we have come to worship him. 
But king Herod heard, and was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. 
And he gathered together all the princes of (the) priests, and scribes of the people, and inquired of them, where Christ should be born. (And he gathered together all the high priests, and the scribes of the people, and inquired of them, where the Messiah would be born.) 
And they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea; for so it is written by a prophet, 
And thou, Bethlehem, the land of Judah, art not the least among the princes of Judah; for of thee a duke shall go out, that shall govern my people Israel. 
Then Herod called privily the astronomers, or the kings, and learned busily of them the time of the star that appeared to them. (Then Herod privately called the astrologers/called the kings, and diligently learned from them the time of the star that appeared to them.) 
And he sent them into Bethlehem, and said, Go ye, and ask ye busily of the child, (or Go, and diligently ask about the child), and when ye have found (him), tell ye it to me, (so) that I also come, and worship him. 
And when they had heard the king, they went forth. And lo! the star, that they saw in the east, went before them, till it came, and stood above, where the child was. 
And they saw the star, and joyed with a full great joy. 
And they entered into the house, and found the child with Mary, his mother; and they felled down, and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they offered to him gifts, gold, incense, and myrrh. 
And when they had taken an answer in sleep, that they should not turn again to Herod, they turned again by another way into their own country. (And when they had received a warning in their sleep, that they should not return to Herod, they returned by another way to their own country.) 
And when they were gone, lo! the angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in sleep, and said, Rise up, and take the child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there, till that I say to thee; for it is to come, that Herod seek the child, to destroy him. 
And Joseph rose up, and took the child and his mother by night, and went into Egypt, 
and he was there till the death of Herod; that it should be fulfilled, that was said of the Lord by the prophet, (or so that it would be fulfilled, what was said by the Lord through the prophet), saying, From Egypt I have called my son. 
Then Herod seeing that he was scorned, either deceived, of the astronomers, or of the kings, was full wroth; and he sent, and slew all the children, that were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years (of) age and within, after the time that he had inquired of the astronomers, or after the time that he had sought out of the kings. (Then Herod seeing that he was scorned, or deceived, by the astrologers/by the kings, was enraged; and he sent his soldiers, and killed all the children, who were in Bethlehem, and in all its coasts, from two years of age and under, after the time that he had learned of from the astrologers/from the kings.) 
Then it was fulfilled, that was said by Jeremy, the prophet, saying, (Then it was fulfilled, what was said by the prophet Jeremiah, saying,) 
A voice was heard on high, weeping and much wailing, Rachel beweeping her sons, and she would not be comforted, for they be nought or for they be not. 
But when Herod was dead, lo! the angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in sleep in Egypt, 
and said, Rise up, and take the child and his mother, and go into the land of Israel; for they that sought the life of the child be dead. 
Joseph rose up, and took the child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel. 
And he heard that Archelaus reigned in Judea for Herod, his father, and dreaded to go thither (or and he feared to go there). And he was warned in sleep, and went into the parts of Galilee; 
and he came, and dwelt in a city, that is called Nazareth, that it should be fulfilled, that was said by prophets, (or so that it would be fulfilled, what was said by the prophets), For he shall be called a Nazarene. 
