ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 14.
Blessed is the man, that stood not by the word(s) of or from his mouth, and was not pricked in (or with) the sorrow of trespass. 
He is blessed, that hath not sorrow of (or in) his soul, and falleth not down or away from his hope. 
Chattel, that is, riches, is without reason to a covetous man, and hard niggard, (or stingy, or miserly); and whereto is gold to an envious man? 
He that gathereth of his will un-justly, gathereth to (or for) other men; and another man shall make waste or do lechery in (or with) his goods. 
To what other man shall he be good, which is wicked to himself? and he shall not be merry in his goods. 
Nothing is worse, than he that hath envy to himself; and this is the yielding of his malice. 
And if he doeth good, he doeth (it) unwittingly, and not willfully (or willingly); and at the last he showeth his malice. 
The eye of an envious man is wicked, and turning away the face, and despising his soul. 
The eye of the covetous man is never filled; he shall not be filled into the part of wickedness, till he perform unrightfulness or unrightwiseness, and make dry his soul. 
An evil eye to evils, and the needy man shall not be filled of or with bread; and he shall be in sorrow on (or at) his table. 
Son, if thou hast, do well with thyself, and offer thou worthy offerings to God. 
Be thou mindful that death shall not tarry, and the testament of hells or of hell, that is, the ordinance of God, of the death of each man, which is showed to thee; for why the testament of this world shall die by death. 
Before (thy) death do thou good to (or for) thy friend, and by thy mights or strengths stretch thou forth, and give to a poor man. 
Be thou not deceived or beguiled of (or from) a good day, and a little part of a good day pass not thee (unfulfilled or unappreciated). 
Whether thou shalt not leave to other men thy sorrows, and thy travails? 
In the parting of lot give thou, and take, and justify thy soul. 
Before thy death work thou rightfulness or rightwiseness; for at hells, or hell, (or in the grave), it is not to find meat. 
Each man shall wax eld or old as hay, and as a leaf bringing fruit in a green tree. Others be engendered, and others be cast or fall down; so the generation of flesh and blood, another is ended, and another is born. 
Each corruptible work shall fail in the end; and he that worketh it, shall go with it. And all or each chosen work shall be justified; and he that worketh it, shall be honoured in (or by) it. 
Blessed is the man, that shall dwell in wisdom, and that shall be-think in rightfulness or rightwiseness, and shall think in wit (about) the beholding of God. 
Which or Who thinketh out, either findeth out, the ways of him in his heart, and shall be understanding in the hid things of him; 
going as a searcher after it, and standing in the ways of it. 
Which beholdeth by the windows thereof, and heareth in (or at) the gates thereof; Who beholdeth by the windows of it, and in the gates of it is hearing; 
which or who resteth nigh the house thereof, and setteth a stake in the walls thereof. who resteth beside the house of it, and in the walls of it pitcheth a pale. 
He shall set his little house at the hands of him, and goods (or good things) shall rest in his little house, by (the) enduring of the world; 
he shall set his sons under the covering thereof or the roof of it, and he shall dwell under the boughs or branches thereof; 
he shall be covered under the covering thereof or the roof of it from heat, and he shall rest in the glory thereof. 
