2ND PETER.
Chapter 1.
Simon Peter, (a) servant and (an) apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have taken with us the even-faith (or to those who have received the same faith as us), in the rightwiseness of our God and Saviour Jesus Christ, 
grace and peace be full-filled to you, by the knowing of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
How all things of his god-like virtue, that be to life and piety, be given to us, by the knowing of him, that called us for his own glory and virtue. (How all the things of his godly or his divine power, which be for life and piety, be given to us, through the knowledge of him, who called us to share in his own glory and power.) 
By whom he gave to us most precious promises; that by these things ye shall be made fellows of God’s kind (or of God’s kin), and flee the corruption of that covetousness, that is in the world. 
And bring ye in all busyness, and minister in your faith (with) virtue, and in virtue cunning, (or knowing), or science, (or and with virtue knowledge); 
in cunning, (or in knowing), or in science, abstinence, in abstinence patience, in patience piety; (and with knowledge abstinence, with abstinence patience, with patience piety;) 
in piety, love of (the) brotherhood, and in (the) love of (the) brotherhood charity. (with piety, love of the brotherhood, and with the love of the brotherhood kindness.) 
For if these be with you, and overcome, or be plenteous, they shall not make you void, (or empty and useless), neither without fruit, in the knowing of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
But to whom these be not ready, he is blind, and gropeth with his hand, and forgetteth the purging of his old trespasses. 
Wherefore, brethren, be ye more busy, (so) that by good works ye make your calling and choosing certain; for ye doing these things, shall not do sin any time, or soothly ye doing these things, shall not sin any time. 
For thus the entering into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, shall be ministered to you plenteously. (And so your entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, shall abundantly be afforded you.) 
For which thing I shall begin to admonish you (for)evermore of these things; and I will, that ye be cunning (or knowing), and confirmed in this present truth. (For which thing I shall always admonish you about these things; and I desire, that ye know, or have knowledge of, and be confirmed, or established, in this truth that is present with you.) 
Forsooth I deem justly or Forsooth I deem (it) just, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to raise you in admonishing; (For I judge it just or appropriate, for as long as I am in this body, to remind you of these things;) 
and I am certain, that the putting away or the putting off of my tabernacle is swift, by this that our Lord Jesus Christ hath showed to me. 
But I shall give busyness, that oft after my death ye have mind of these things. (But I shall make every effort now, so that after my death ye shall often remember these things.) 
For we not (pur)suing unwise tales (or For we not following unwise tales), have made known to you the virtue (or the power) and the before-knowing or the prescience of our Lord Jesus Christ; but we were made beholders of his greatness. 
For he took of God the Father honour and glory, by such manner voice slid down to him from the great glory, This is my (be)loved Son, in whom I have pleased to me; hear ye him. (For he received honour and glory from God the Father, when that voice came down to him from the Great Glory, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am pleased; listen to him.) 
And we heard this voice brought from heaven, when we were with him in the holy hill (or when we were with him on the Mount of Transfiguration). 
And we have a firmer word of prophecy, to which ye giving attention do well, as to a lantern that giveth light in a dark place, till the day begin to give light, and the day star spring in your hearts. 
And first understand ye this thing, that each prophecy of scripture is not made by proper, or by (one’s) own, interpretation; 
for prophecy was not brought any time by man’s will, but the holy men of God inspired with the Holy Ghost spake. (for prophecy was not brought forth at any time by man’s will, but rather, the saints of God, or God’s people, inspired by the Holy Spirit spoke it forth.) 
