JEREMIAH.
Chapter 28.
And it was done in that year, in the beginning of the realm of Zedekiah (or at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah), king of Judah, in the fourth year, in the fifth month, Hananiah, the son of Azur, a prophet of Gibeon, said to me in the house of the Lord, before the priests, and all the people, saying, 
The Lord of hosts, God of Israel, saith these things, I have all-broken the yoke of the king of Babylon. 
Yet two years of days (shall) there be, and (then) I shall make to be brought again to this place all the vessels of the Lord, which Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, took from this place, and translated them into Babylon (or and carried them away to Babylon). 
And I shall turn (again) to this place, saith the Lord, Jeconiah, the son of Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, and all the passing over of Judah, that entered into Babylon; for I shall all-break the yoke of the king of Babylon. (And I shall bring back to this place Jeconiah, the son of Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, and all the captives of Judah, who were taken to Babylon, saith the Lord; for I shall all-break the yoke of the king of Babylon.) 
And Jeremy, the prophet, said to Hananiah, the prophet, before the eyes of priests, and before the eyes of all the people that stood in the house of the Lord. (And the prophet Jeremiah spoke to the prophet Hananiah, before the priests, and before all the people who stood in the House of the Lord.) 
And Jeremy, the prophet, said to Hananiah, Amen! so do the Lord; the Lord raise (up) thy words which thou prophesiedest, that the vessels be brought again into the house of the Lord, and all the passing over from Babylon, to this place. (And the prophet Jeremiah said to Hananiah, Amen! may the Lord do so; yea, may the Lord raise up the words which thou hast prophesied, so that the vessels of the House of the Lord, and all the captives, be brought back from Babylon to this place.) 
Nevertheless hear thou this word, which I speak in thine ears, and in the ears of all the people. 
Prophets that were before me, and before thee, from the beginning, and prophesied on many lands, and on many realms, of battle, and of torment, and of hunger. (The prophets who were before me, and before thee, from the beginning prophesied of battle, and of torment, and of hunger, for many lands, and for many kingdoms.) 
The prophet that prophesied peace (or But the prophet who prophesied peace), when his word cometh, shall be known (as) the prophet whom the Lord sent in truth. 
And Hananiah, the prophet, took the chain from the neck of Jeremy, the prophet, and brake it. 
And Hananiah, the prophet, spake in the sight of all the people, saying, The Lord saith these things, So I shall break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, after two years of days, from the neck of all folks. And Jeremy, the prophet, went into his way, (or And the prophet Jeremiah went on his way). 
And the word of the Lord was made to Jeremy, after that Hananiah, the prophet, brake the chain from the neck of Jeremy; and the Lord said, 
Go thou, and say to Hananiah, The Lord saith these things, Thou hast all-broken the chains of wood, and thou shalt make iron chains for them (or but now thou shalt get iron chains in place of them). 
For the Lord of hosts, God of Israel, saith these things, I have set an iron yoke on the neck of all these folks, (so) that they serve Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, and (that) they shall serve him (well); furthermore and I gave to him the beasts of the earth (or and I have even given him all the beasts of the field). 
And Jeremy, the prophet, said to Hananiah, the prophet, Hananiah, hear thou; the Lord sent not thee, and thou madest this people for to trust in leasing. (And the prophet Jeremiah said to the prophet Hananiah, Hananiah, listen thou; the Lord did not send thee, and thou madest this people to trust in lies or to believe lies.) 
Therefore the Lord saith these things, Lo! I shall send thee out from the face of the earth; in this year thou shalt die, for thou spakest against the Lord. 
And Hananiah, the prophet, died in that year, in the seventh month. (And the prophet Hananiah died that year, in the seventh month.) 
