BARUCH.
Chapter 2.
For which thing our Lord God setted steadfastly his word, which he spake to us, and to our judges, that deemed in Israel, and to our kings, and to our princes, and to all Israel and Judah; 
that the Lord should bring on us great evils, that were not done under heaven, as those be done in Jerusalem; by or after those things that be written in the law of Moses, 
that a man should eat the fleshes or the flesh of his (own) son, and the fleshes or the flesh of his (own) daughter. 
And he gave them into the hand of all (the) kings, that be in our compass, into shame or reproof, and into desolation in all peoples, among which the Lord scattered us. 
And we be made beneath, and not above; for we sinned to our Lord God, in not obeying to the voice of him. 
Rightfulness or rightwisenessis to our Lord God, but shame of face is to us and to our fathers, as this day (it) is. 
For the Lord spake on us all these evils, that came on us. 
And we besought not the face of our Lord God, that we should turn again, each of us from our worst ways. 
And the Lord waked in evils (or watched for evils), and brought those or them on us; for the Lord is just or rightwise in all his works, which he commanded to us. 
And we heard not the voice of him, that we should go in the commandments of the Lord, which he gave before our face. 
And now, Lord God of Israel, that leddest or broughtest thy people out of the land of Egypt in (or with) a strong hand, and in (or with) miracles, and in (or with) great wonders, and in thy great virtue (or with thy great power), and in (or with) an high arm, and madest to thee a name, as this day (it) is; 
we have sinned, we have done unfaithfully, we have done wickedly, our Lord God, in all thy rightfulnesses or rightwisenesses. 
(Let) Thy wrath be turned away from us; for we be left a few among (the) heathen men, where thou hast scattered us. 
Lord, hear thou our askings, and our prayers, and lead or bring us out for thee; and give thou to us to find grace before the face of them, that led us away; 
(so) that all (the) earth know, that thou art our Lord God, and that thy name is called to help on Israel, and on the kin of him (or by his kin). 
Lord, behold thou from thine holy house on us, and bow down thine ear, and hear us. 
Open thine eyes, and see; for not (the) dead men that be in hell (or in the grave), whose spirit is taken from their entrails, shall give honour or worship and justifying to the Lord; 
but a soul which is sorry up on the greatness or muchliness of evil, and goeth bowed, and sick (or feeble), or meeked, and the eyes failing, and an hungry soul or the soul hunger-ing, giveth glory to thee, and rightful-ness or rightwiseness to the Lord. 
For not by or after the rightwise-nesses of our fathers we poured out prayers, and asked (for) mercy before thy sight, our Lord God; 
but for thou sentest thy wrath and thy strong vengeance on us, as thou spakest in the hands of thy children (the) prophets (or by thy servants the prophets), and saidest, 
Thus saith the Lord, Bow ye your shoulders, and your neck(s), and do ye travail to (or for) the king of Babylon; and ye shall sit in the land, which I gave to your fathers. 
That (or But) if ye do not, neither hear the voice of your Lord God, to work to (or for) the king of Babylon, 
I shall make your failing from the cities of Judah, and from the gates of Jerusalem; and I shall take away from you the voice of gladness or of mirth, and the voice of joy, and the voice of (the) spouse, and the voice of (the) spousess; and all the land shall be with-out step of them that dwell therein. 
And they heard not thy voice, that they should work to (or for) the king of Babylon; and (so) thou hast set stead-fastly thy words, which thou spakest in the hands of thy children, (the) prophets (or by thy servants the prophets); that the bones of our kings, and the bones of our fathers should be borne over or translated from their place. 
And lo! they be cast forth in the heat of the sun, and in the frost of the night; and menor they be dead in the worst sorrows, in hunger, and in sword, and in sending out. 
And thou hast set (or brought down low) the temple in which thy name was called to (or for) help, as this day showeth, for the wickedness of the house of Israel, and of the house of Judah. 
And thou, our Lord God, hast done in (or with) us by or after all thy goodness, and by all that great merciful doing of thee, or after all that thy great mercy doing, 
as thou spakest in the hand of thy child Moses (or by thy servant Moses), in the day in which thou command-edest to him to write thy law, before the sons of Israel, and saidest, 
If ye hear not my voice, this great adorning and much or this great multitude shall be turned into the least among (the) heathen men, whither I shall scatter them. 
For I knew, that the people shall not hear me, for it is a people of (or with)an hard noll. And it (or But they) shall (re)turn to their heart(s) in the land of their captivity; 
and they shall know, that I am the Lord God of them. And I shall give to them an heart, and they shall under-stand, and ears, and they shall hear. 
And they shall praise me in the land of their captivity, and they shall be mindful of my name. 
And They shall turn away them-selves from their hard back, and from their wickednesses; for they shall have mind of or shall remember the way of their fathers, that sinned against me. 
And I shall again-call them into the land, which I swore to give to the fathers of them, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; and they shall be lords of it. And I shall multiply them, and they shall not be made less. 
And I shall ordain to them another testament everlasting, that I be to them into God, and they shall be to me into a people. And I shall no more move my people, the sons of Israel, from the land which I gave to them. 
