APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 14.
And I saw, and lo! a lamb stood on the mount of Sion or and lo! the lamb stood on the mount Sion, and with him an hundred thousand and four and forty thousand, having his name, and the name of his Father written in their foreheads. (And I saw, and behold! the Lamb stood on Mount Zion, and with him were a hundred and forty-four thousand, having his name, and the name of his Father written on their foreheads.) 
And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder; and the voice which I heard, was as of many harpers harping in their harps. (And I heard a sound from heaven, like the sound of many waters, and like the sound of great thunder; and the sound which I heard, was like that of many harpers playing on their harps.) 
And they sung as a new song before the seat of God, and before the four beasts, and the elder men. And no man might say the song, but those hundred thousand and four and forty thousand, that be bought from the earth. (And they sang a new song before God’s throne, and the four creatures, and the elders. And no man could learn the song, but those hundred and forty-four thousand, who be bought or ransomed from the earth.) 
These it be, that be not defouled with women; for they be virgins. These (pur)sue the lamb, whither ever he shall go; these be bought of all men, the first fruits to God, and to the lamb; (These it be, who be not defiled with women; for they be virgins. They follow the Lamb, wherever he shall go; for they be ransomed from out of all of mankind, the first fruits to God, and to the Lamb;) 
and in the mouth of them leasing is not found; for they be without wem before the throne of God. (and lies were not found in their mouths; for they be without spot or blemish before the throne of God.) 
And I saw another angel, flying by the middle of heaven (or flying through the midst of heaven), having an everlasting gospel or having the everlasting gospel, (so) that he should preach or that he should evangelize to men sitting on the earth, and on each folk, and lineage, and language, and people, (or and to every nation, and tribe, and language, and people); 
and said with a great voice, Dread ye the Lord, and give ye to him honour, for the hour of his doom cometh; and worship ye him, that made heaven and earth, the sea, and all things that be in them, and the wells of waters. (and he said with a loud voice, Have fearful reverence for the Lord, and give him honour, for the hour of his Judgement cometh; and worship him, who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all the things that be in them, and the springs of water.) 
And another angel (pur)sued, saying, That great city Babylon fell down, fell down, which gave drink to all folks of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. (And another angel followed, saying, That great city Babylon fell down, fell down, which made all the nations and all the peoples drink of the wrath of the wine of her fornication.) 
And the third angel (pur)sued them, and said with a great voice, If any man worship the beast, and the image of it, and taketh the character in his forehead, either in his hand, (And the third angel followed them, and said with a loud voice, If anyone worship the beast, and its image, and receiveth its mark on his forehead, or on his hand,) 
this shall drink of the wine of God’s wrath, that is mingled with clear wine in the cup of his wrath, and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone, in the sight of the holy angels, and before the sight of the lamb. 
And the smoke of their torments shall ascend up into the worlds of worlds; neither they (shall) have rest day and night, which worship the beast and his image, and if any take the character of his name. (And the smoke of their torments shall go up forever and ever; and they shall not have any rest day or night, who worship the beast and his image, and if any receive the mark of his name.) 
Here is the patience of (the) saints, which keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus. (Here is the endurance of God’s people, who obey the commandments of God, and hold fast to their faithfulness in Jesus.) 
And I heard a voice from heaven, saying to me, Write thou, Blessed be(the) dead men or Blessed be (the) dead, that die in the Lord; from henceforth now the Spirit saith, that they rest of their travails; for the works of them (pur)sue them. (And I heard a voice from heaven, saying to me, Write, Blessed be the dead who die in the Lord; from henceforth now the Spirit saith, They can rest from their labours; for their works follow them.) 
And I saw, and lo! a white cloud, and above the cloud a sitter or and above the cloud one sitting, like the son of man, having in his head a golden crown, (or like the Son of man, having a gold crown on his head), and in his hand a sharp sickle. 
And another angel went out of the temple, and cried with great voice to him that sat on the cloud, Send thy sickle, and reap, for the hour cometh, that it be reaped; for the corn of the earth is ripe. (And another angel went out of the Temple, and cried with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, Send thy sickle, and reap the harvest, for the hour cometh, that it be reaped; for the harvest of the earth is ready.) 
And he that sat on the cloud, sent his sickle into the earth, and reaped the earth. 
And another angel went out of the temple, that is in heaven, and he also had a sharp sickle. 
And another angel went out from the altar, that had power on fire; and he cried with a great voice to him that had the sharp sickle, and said, (or And another angel went out from the altar, who had power over the fire; and he cried with a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, and said), Send thy sharp sickle, and cut away or cut off the clusters of the vineyard of the earth, for the grapes of it be ripe. 
And the angel sent his sickle into the earth, and gathered (the) grapes of the vineyard of the earth, and sent (them) into the great lake of God’s wrath (or and sent them into the great winepress of God’s anger). 
And the lake was trodden without the city, and the blood went out of the lake, till to the horses’ bridles, by furlongs a thousand and six hundred. (And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and the blood went out of the winepress, for a thousand and six hundred furlongs all around, yea, up to the bridles of the horses.) 
