JOHN.
Chapter 13.
But before the feast day of pask, Jesus witting, that his hour is come, or Jesus witting, for his hour cometh, (But before the Feast Day, or the Festival, of Passover, Jesus knowing, that his hour had come), that he pass from this world to the Father, when he had loved his that were in the world, into the end he loved them. 
And when the supper was made, when the devil had put then into the heart, that Judas of Simon Iscariot should betray him, And the supper made, when the devil had sent now into the heart of Judas of Simon Iscariot, that he should betray him, 
he witting (or knowing) that the Father gave all things to him into his hands, and that he went out from God, and (now) goeth (back) to God, 
he riseth from the supper, and doeth off his clothes; and when he had taken a linen cloth, he girded him(self). 
And afterward he put water into a basin, and began to wash the disciples’ feet, and to wipe (them) with the linen cloth, with which he was girded. 
And so he came to Simon Peter, and Peter saith to him, Lord, washest thou my feet? 
Jesus answered, and said to him, What I do, thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know afterward. 
Peter saith to him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered to him, If I shall not wash thee, thou shalt not have (any) part with me. 
Simon Peter saith to him, Lord, not only my feet, but both the hands and the head. 
Jesus saith to him, He that is washed, hath no need but that he wash the feet, but he is all clean (or then he is altogether clean); and ye be clean, but not all. 
For he knew, who it was that should betray him (or who it was that would betray him); therefore he said, Ye be not all clean. 
And so after that he had washed their feet, he took his clothes; and when he was set to (the) meat again, again he said to them, Ye know what I have done to you or Know ye what I have done to you(?). (And so after that he had washed their feet, he took his clothes; and when he had sat down at the meal again, he said to them, Do ye understand what I have done for you?) 
Ye call me Master and Lord, and ye say well; for I am. (Ye call me Teacher and Lord, and ye say correctly; for that is what I am.) 
Therefore if I, Lord and Master, have washed your feet, and ye shall wash one another’s feet or ye owe to wash another the other’s feet; (And so, if I, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, ye ought to wash one another’s feet;) 
for I have given to you (an) ensample, that as I have done to you, so do ye. 
Truly, truly, I say to you, (or Truly, I tell you the truth), the servant is not greater than his lord, neither an apostle is greater than he that sent him. 
If ye know these things, ye shall be blessed, if ye do them. 
I say not of (or about) all (of) you, (for) I know which I have chosen; but that the scripture be fulfilled, He that eateth my bread, shall raise his heel against me. 
Truly, I say to you before it be done, (so) that when it is done, ye believe that I am (or ye believe who I am). 
Truly, truly, I say to you, he that taketh whomever I shall send, receiveth me, (or Truly, I tell you the truth, he who receiveth whomever I shall send, receiveth me); and he that receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me. 
When Jesus had said these things, he was troubled in spirit, and witnessed (or testified), and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, (or Truly, I tell you the truth), that one of you shall betray me. 
Therefore the disciples looked (around) together, doubting of whom he said. 
And so one of his disciples was resting in the bosom of Jesus, whom Jesus loved. (And one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was sitting close beside Jesus.) 
Therefore Simon Peter beckoned to him, and said to him, Who is it, of whom he saith? 
And so when he had rested again on the breast of Jesus, he saith to him, Lord, who is it? (And so when he was close beside Jesus again, he asked him, Lord, who is it?) 
Jesus answered, He it is, to whom I shall areach a sop of bread. And when he had wet bread or And when he had dipped in (some) bread, he gave (it) to Judas of Simon Iscariot. 
And after the morsel, then Satan entered into him. And Jesus saith to him, That thing that thou doest, do thou swiftly. 
And none of them that sat at the meat knew (or And none of those who sat at the meal knew), whereto or what thing he said to him. 
For some guessed, for Judas had (the) purses, that Jesus had said to him, Buy thou those things, that be needful to us to the feast day, (or Go and buy for us those things, that we need for the Feast Day or for the Festival), or that he should give something to needy men. 
Therefore when he had taken the morsel, he went out anon (or he left at once); and it was night. 
Therefore when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now man’s Son is clarified, and God is clarified in him. (And so when Judas had gone out, Jesus said, Now man’s Son is glorified, and God is glorified in him.) 
If God is clarified in him, and God shall clarify him in himself, and anon (or at once) he shall clarify him. (If God is glorified in him, then God shall glorify him in himself, and he shall glorify him now.) 
Little sons, yet a little I am with you; ye shall seek me, and, as I said to the Jews, Whither I go, ye may not come, (or Where I go, ye cannot come); and to you I say (it) now. 
I give to you a new commandment, that ye love together, as I have loved you, and that ye love together. (I give you a new commandment, that ye love one another, as I have loved you, yea, that ye love one another.) 
In this thing all men shall know, that ye be my disciples, if ye have love together (or if ye love one another). 
Simon Peter saith to him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered, Whither I go, thou mayest not (pur)sue me now, but thou shalt (pur)sue me afterward. (Simon Peter said to him, Lord, where goest thou? Jesus answered, Where I go, thou cannot follow me now, but thou shalt follow me later.) 
Peter saith to him, Why may I not (pur)sue thee now? I shall put (forth) my life for thee. (Peter said to him, Why can I not follow thee now? I shall lay down my life for thee.) 
Jesus answered, Thou shalt put (forth)(or lay down) thy life for me? Truly, truly, I say to thee, (or Truly, I tell thee the truth), the cock shall not crow, till thou shalt deny me thrice. 
And he saith to his disciples, 
