MATTHEW.
Chapter 11.
And it was done, when Jesus had ended (these words), he commanded to his twelve disciples, and passed from thence to teach and preach in the cities of them. 
But when John in bonds had heard (of) the works of Christ (or But when John in prison had heard of the works of the Messiah), he sent two of his disciples, 
and said to him, Art thou he that shall come, or we abide another? 
And Jesus answered, and said to them, Go ye, and tell again to John those things that ye have heard and seen. 
Blind men see, crooked men go, mesels be made clean, deaf men hear, dead men rise again, poor men be taken to preaching of the gospel. (The blind see, the lame walk, the lepers be cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead rise again, the poor be taken to the preaching of the Gospel or the Good News.) 
And he is blessed, that shall not be caused to stumble in me. (And he is blessed, who shall not be caused to stumble because of me.) 
And when they were gone away, Jesus began to say of John to the people, What thing went ye out into (the) desert to see? a reed waved with the wind? 
Or what thing went ye out to see? a man clothed with soft clothes? Lo! they that be clothed with soft clothes be in the houses of kings. 
But what thing went ye out to see? a prophet? Yea, I say to you, and more than a prophet. 
For this is he, of whom it is written, Lo! I send mine angel before thy face, that shall make ready thy way before thee (or who shall prepare thy way before thee). 
Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), there rose none more or none greater than John (the) Baptist among the children of women; but he that is less or that is the least in the kingdom of heavens, is more than he. 
And from the days of John (the) Baptist till now the kingdom of heavens suffereth violence, and violent men ravish it, (or seize it, or snatch it). 
For all the prophets and the law till John prophesied; 
and if ye will receive (it), he is Elias, that is to come. (and if ye will receive it, he is Elijah, who was to come.) 
He that hath ears of hearing, hear he. 
But to whom shall I guess this generation like? It is like to children sitting in the chapping (or at the market), that cry to their peers, 
and say, We have sung to you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned to you, and ye have not wailed. 
For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a devil. 
The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Lo! a man a glutton, and a drinker of wine, and a friend of publicans and of sinful men. And wisdom is justified of her sons (or And wisdom is proved right by its results). 
Then Jesus began to say reproof to (the) cities, in which full many virtues of him were done, for they did not penance. (Then Jesus began to rebuke the cities, in which a great many works of power, or miracles, were done by him, because they did not repent.) 
Woe to thee! Chorazin, woe to thee! Bethsaida; for if the virtues that be done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, sometime they had done penance in hair-shirt and ashes. (Woe to thee, Chorazin! woe to thee, Bethsaida! for if the works of power, or the miracles, that had been done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented in sackcloth and ashes long ago.) 
Nevertheless I say to you, it shall be less pain(ful) to Tyre and Sidon in the day of doom (or on the Day of Judgement), than to you. 
And thou, Capernaum, whether thou shalt be araised up into heaven? Thou shalt go down into hell. For if the virtues that be done in thee had been done in Sodom (or For if the works of power, or the miracles, that had been done in thee had been done in Sodom), peradventure they should have dwelled till into this day. 
Nevertheless I say to you, that to the land of Sodom it shall be less pain(ful) in the day of doom (or on the Day of Judgement), than to thee. 
In that time Jesus answered, and said, I acknowledge to thee, Father, Lord of heaven and of earth, for thou hast hid these things from wise men, and ready, or wary, or prudent, or sly, (or for thou hast hidden these things from the wise and the prudent), and hast showed them to little children; 
so, Father, for so it was pleasing before thee. 
All things be given to me of my Father (or Everything is given to me by my Father); and no man knew the Son, but the Father, neither any man knew the Father, but the Son, and to whom the Son would show (him). All things be given to me of my father; and no man knoweth the son, no but the father, neither any man knoweth the father, no but the son, and to whom the son would show (him). 
All ye that travail, and be charged (or All ye who labour, and be burdened), come to me, and I shall fulfill you or and I shall refresh you. 
Take ye my yoke on you, and learn ye of me, for I am mild and meek in heart; and ye shall find rest to your souls. (Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart; and ye shall find rest for your souls.) 
For my yoke is soft, and my charge (or my burden)is light. For my yoke is sweet, and my charge is easy. 
