MATTHEW.
Chapter 17.
And after six days Jesus took Peter, and James, and John, his brother, and led them aside into an high hill, (or and led only them up onto a high hill, or a mountain), 
and was transfigured, or turned, into another likeness before them. And his face shone as the sun; and his clothes were made (as) white as snow. 
And lo! Moses and Elias appeared to them, and spake with him. (And behold! Moses and Elijah appeared to them, and spoke with him.) 
And Peter answered, and said to Jesus, Lord, it is good (for) us to be here. If thou wilt, make we here three tabernacles; to thee one, to Moses one, and one to Elias. (And Peter answered, and said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If thou desirest, we shall make three tents, or three tabernacles, here; one for thee, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.) 
Yet while he spake, lo! a bright cloud overshadowed them; and lo! a voice out of the cloud, that said, This is my dearworthy Son, in whom I have well pleased to me; hear ye him, (or This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; listen to him). 
And the disciples heard, and felled down on their faces, and dreaded greatly (or and greatly feared). 
And Jesus came, and touched them, and said to them, Rise up, and do not ye dread (or and do not fear). 
And they lifted up their eyes, and saw no man, but Jesus alone. 
And as they came down of the hill or down from the mountain, Jesus commanded to them, and said, Say ye to no man the vision, till man’s Son rise again from death or till man’s Son rise again from (the) dead. 
And his disciples asked him, and said, What then say the scribes, that it behooveth that Elias come first? (And his disciples asked him, Why then do the scribes say, that it behooveth that Elijah must come first?) 
He answered, and said to them, Elias shall come (or Elijah shall come), and he shall restore all things. 
And I say to you, that Elias is now come, and they knew him not, but they did in him whatever things they would; and so man’s Son shall suffer of them. (And I tell you, that Elijah hath now come, and they knew him not, but they did to him whatever things they wanted to do; and so man’s Son shall also suffer by them.) 
Then the disciples understood, that he said to them of John the Baptist. 
And when he came to the people, a man came to him, and felled down on his knees before him, and said, 
Lord, have mercy on my son; for he is (a) lunatic, and suffereth evil, for oft times he falleth into the fire, and oft times into the water. 
And I brought him to thy disciples, and they might not heal him (or but they could not heal him). 
Jesus answered, and said, A! thou generation unbelieveful or out of the faith and wayward, (or O thou unfaithful and wayward generation!); how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? Bring ye him hither to me. 
And Jesus blamed him, and the devil went out from him; and the child was healed from that hour. (And Jesus rebuked the demon, and he went out of him; and the boy was healed at that moment.) 
Then the disciples came to Jesus privily, and said to him, Why might not we cast him out? (Then the disciples came privately to Jesus, and asked him, Why could we not throw him out?) 
Jesus saith to them, For your unbelief. Truly I say to you, if ye have faith, as a corn of sinapi, ye shall say to this hill, Pass thou from hence, and it shall pass (away); and nothing shall be impossible to you; (Jesus said to them, Because of your lack of faith. I tell you the truth, if ye have faith, like a kernel, or a grain, of mustard seed, ye shall say to this mountain, Go away from here, and it shall go away; and nothing shall be impossible for you;) 
but this kind is not cast out, no but by prayer and fasting. 
And whiles they were abiding together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, Man’s Son shall be betrayed into the hands of men; 
and they shall slay him, and the third day he shall rise again to life. And they were made full sorry, or And they were sorrowful greatly, (or And they were greatly grieved). 
And when they came to Capernaum, they that took tribute, came to Peter, and said to him, Your master payeth not tribute? (And when they came to Capernaum, those who collected the Temple tax, came to Peter, and said to him, Your teacher payeth no tax?) 
And he said, Yes. And when he was come into the house, Jesus came before him, and said, Simon, what seemeth to thee? Kings of the earth, of whom take they tribute? of their sons, either of aliens? (or Kings of the earth, from whom do they collect tolls or taxes? from their own people, or from strangers, or foreigners?) 
And he said, Of aliens (or From foreigners). Jesus said to him, Then (the) sons be free. 
But that we offend them not, go thou to the sea, and cast an hook, and take that fish that first cometh up; and, when his mouth is opened, thou shalt find a stater, that is, a certain (kind) of money; take it, and give (it)to them for thee and for me. 
