LUKE.
Chapter 2.
And it was done in those days, a commandment went out from the emperor Augustus or a commandment went out from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be described (or that a census should be taken throughout the Empire). 
This first describing was made of Cyrenius, (the) justice, or (the) keeper, of Syria. (This first census was made when Quirinius was the Governor of Syria.) 
And all men went to make profession, or acknowledging, each into his own city. 
And Joseph went up from Galilee, from the city of Nazareth, into Judea, into a city of David, that is called Bethlehem, for that he was of the house and of the family of David, 
(so) that he should acknowledge with Mary, his wife, that was wedded to him, and was great with child. 
And it was done, while they were there, the days were fulfilled, that she should bear (the) child. 
And she bare her first-born son, and wrapped him in ‘clothes, and laid him in a cratch, for there was no place to him in no chamber. (And she bare her first-born son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a feed-trough, for there was no place for him in any room.) 
And shepherds were in the same country, waking and keeping the watches of the night on their flock. (And shepherds were there in the countryside, awake and keeping the night watch over their flocks.) 
And lo! the angel of the Lord stood beside them, and the clearness of God shined about them; and they dreaded with great dread. (And behold! the angel of the Lord stood beside them, and the glory of God shone about them; and they feared with a great fear.) 
And the angel said to them, Do not ye dread; for lo! I preach to you a great joy, that shall be to all people. (And the angel said to them, Do not fear; for behold! I preach to you a great joy, that shall be for all people.) 
For a Saviour is born today to you, that is Christ the Lord (or who is the Messiah the Lord), in the city of David. 
And this is a token to you; ye shall find a young child wrapped in ‘clothes, and laid in a cratch. (And this is a sign for you; ye shall find a young child wrapped in swaddling clothes, and laid in a feed-trough.) 
And suddenly there was made with the angel a multitude of heavenly knighthood, praising God, and saying, (And suddenly there was made with the angel a multitude of heavenly host, praising God, and saying,) 
Glory be in the highest things to God, and in earth peace to men of good will. (Glory be to God in the highest place, and on earth peace to men of good will.) 
And it was done, as the angels passed away from them into heaven, the shepherds spake together, and said, Go we over to Bethlehem, and see we this word that is made, which the Lord hath made, and showed to us. 
And they hieing came, and found Mary and Joseph, and the young child laid in a cratch (or and the young child laid in a feed-trough). 
And they seeing, knew of the word that was said to them of this child. 
And all men that heard wondered, and of these things that were said to them of the shepherds. (And everyone who heard about it, wondered about these things that were told to them by the shepherds.) 
But Mary kept all these words, bearing (them) together in her heart. 
And the shepherds turned again, glorifying and praising God in all things that they had heard and seen, as it was said to them. (And the shepherds returned home, glorifying and praising God for all the things which they had heard and seen, as it was said to them.) 
And after that eight days were ended, that the child should be circumcised, his name was called Jesus, which (name he) was called of the angel (or which name he was called by the angel), before that he was conceived in the womb. 
And after that the days of the purification of Mary were fulfilled, after Moses’ law, they took him into Jerusalem, to offer him to the Lord, 
as it is written in the law of the Lord, For every male-kind opening the womb, shall be called holy to the Lord; 
and that they shall give an offering, after that it is said in the law of the Lord, A pair of turtles, or two culver birds, (or A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons). 
And lo! a man was in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon; and this man was just, and virtuous or dread-full, and abode the comfort of Israel; and the Holy Ghost was in him. (And behold! there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name (was) Simeon; and this man (was) righteous, and virtuous, (or full of reverence), and awaited the strengthening of Israel; and the Holy Spirit was in him.) 
And he had taken an answer of the Holy Ghost, that he should not see death, no but he saw first the Christ of the Lord. (And he had received an answer from the Holy Spirit, that he would not see death, until he had seen the Messiah of the Lord.) 
And he came in (the) Spirit into the temple (or And directed by the Spirit he came to the Temple). And when his father and mother led in the child Jesus to do after the custom of the law for him, 
he took him into his arms, and blessed God, and said, 
Lord, now thou leavest thy servant after thy word in peace; (Lord, now thou lettest thy servant go or to depart in peace, according to thy word;) 
for mine eyes have seen thine health, (for my eyes have seen thy salvation or thy deliverance,) 
which thou hast made ready before the face of all (the) peoples; 
light to the showing of heathen men, and (the) glory of thy people Israel. (light for the showing to the Gentiles, and glory to thy people Israel.) 
And his father and his mother were wondering on these things, that were said of him (or that were said about their son). 
And Simeon blessed them, and said to Mary, his mother, Lo! this (child) is set into the falling down and into the rising again of many men in Israel, and into a token, to whom it shall be against-said, (or and as a sign, to which it shall be said against, or which shall be rejected). 
And a sword shall pass through thine own soul, (so) that the thoughts be showed of many hearts. 
And Anna was a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the lineage of Aser. And she had gone forth in many days, and had lived with her husband seven years from her maidenhood. 
And this (woman) was a widow to fourscore years and four; and she departed not from the temple, but served God night and day in fastings and prayers. 
And this (woman) came upon them in that hour, and acknowledged to the Lord, and spake of him to all that abided the redemption of Israel. (And she came upon them at that time, and thanked the Lord, and spoke about him to all who waited for Israel’s redemption.) 
And as they had full done all things or And as they had perfectly done all things, after the law of the Lord, they turned again into Galilee, into their city Nazareth, (or they returned to Galilee, to their city of Nazareth). 
And the child waxed, and was comforted, full of wisdom, (or And the child grew, and was strengthened, and was full of wisdom); and the grace of God was in him. 
And his father and mother went each year into Jerusalem, in the solemn day of pask. (And his father and mother went each year to Jerusalem, for the Feast Day, or the Festival, of Passover.) 
And when Jesus was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem, after the custom of the feast day. 
And when the days were done, they turned again (or they returned home); and the child abode in Jerusalem, and his father and mother knew it not. 
For they guessing that he had been in the fellowship, came a day’s journey, and sought him among his cousins and his acknowledged or and (his) known. 
And when they found him not, they turned again into Jerusalem, and sought him. (And when they could not find him, they returned to Jerusalem, and searched for him.) 
And it befell, that after the third day they found him in the temple, sitting in the middle of the doctors, (or the teachers of the Law), hearing them and asking them. 
And all men that heard him, wondered on the prudence and the answers of him. 
And they saw (him), and wondered. And his mother said to him, Son, what hast thou done to us thus? (or Son, why hast thou done this to us?) Lo! thy father and I sorrowing have sought thee. 
And he said to them, What is it that ye sought me? (or Why is it that ye have searched for me?) knew ye not, that in those things that be of my Father, or knew ye not, that in those things that be my Father’s, it behooveth me to be? 
And they understood not the word, which he spake to them. 
And he came down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject to them. And his mother kept together all these words, and bare them in her heart. 
And Jesus profited in wisdom, age, and grace, with God and men. (And Jesus grew in wisdom, age, and grace, with God and men.) 
