APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 10.
And I saw another strong angel coming down from heaven, clothed with a cloud, and the rainbow on his head; and the face of him was as the sun, and the feet of him as a pillar of fire. 
And he had in his hand a little book opened; and he set his right foot on the sea, and the left foot on the earth. 
And he cried with a great voice, as a lion when he roareth; and when he had cried, the seven thunders spake their voices. (And he cried with a loud voice, like a lion when he roareth; and when he had cried out, the seven thunders spoke.) 
And when the seven thunders had spoken their voices, I was to write. And I heard a voice from heaven, saying, Mark thou what things the seven thunders spake, and do not thou write them. (And when the seven thunders had spoken, I was about to write down what they had said. But I heard a voice from heaven, saying, Seal up what the seven thunders have spoken, and do not write it down.) 
And the angel whom I saw standing above the sea, and above the earth, lifted up his hand to heaven, 
and swore by him that liveth into (the) worlds of worlds, that made of nought heaven, and those things that be in it, and the earth, and those things that be in it, and the sea, and those things that be in it, that time shall no more be. (and swore by Him who liveth forever and ever, who made out of nothing heaven, and those things that be in it, and the earth, and those things that be in it, and the sea, and those things that be in it, that time shall be no more.) 
But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel (or But in the days of the sounding of the seventh angel), when he shall begin to trump, the mystery of God shall be ended or shall be fulfilled, as he preached by his servants (the) prophets. 
And I heard a voice from heaven again speaking with me, and saying, Go thou, and take the book, that is opened, from the hand of the angel, that standeth above the sea, and on the land, (or who standeth on the sea, and on the land). 
And I went to the angel, and said to him, that he should give me the book. And he said to me, Take the book, and devour it; and it shall make thy womb to be bitter, but in thy mouth it shall be (as) sweet as honey. 
And I took the book (out) of the angel’s hand (or And I took the book from the hand of the angel), and devoured it, and it was in my mouth as sweet as honey; and when I had devoured it, my womb was bitter. 
And he said to me, It behooveth thee again to prophesy to heathen men, and to peoples, and languages or and tongues, and to many kings. (And he said to me, It behooveth thee again to prophesy about or to the Gentiles, and the peoples, and the languages, and many kings.) 
