ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 6.
Do not thou for a friend (or instead of a friend) be made (an) enemy to thy neighbour; for why an evil man shall inherit upbraiding and despising, and each sinner envious and double-tongued. 
Enhance thee not in the thought of thy soul, as a bull doeth; lest thy virtue or strength be hurtled down by folly, 
and it eat thy leaves, and lose (or destroy) thy fruits, and thou be left as a dry tree in (the) desert or (the) wilderness. 
Forsooth a wicked, or shrewd, (or depraved) soul shall lose or destroy him that hath it, and it giveth him into the joy of the enemy, and it shall lead forth into the part of wicked men. 
A sweet word multiplieth friends, and assuageth enemies; and a tongue well gracious shall be plenteous or abound in a good man. 
Many peaceable men be to thee, and (or but) one (out) of a thousand be a counsellor to thee. 
If thou hast a friend, have him in temptation, that is, prove thou him in thine adversity, and betake not lightly or not lightly open, or trust, thyself to him. 
For there is a friend by (or for) his (own) time, and he shall not dwell or abide in the day of tribulation. 
And there is a friend which is turned to enmity; and there is a friend, that shall show openly hatred, and chiding or strife, and despisings. 
Forsooth there is a friend, (a) fellow of (the) table, and (he) dwell-eth not in the day of need. 
If a friend dwelleth steadfast, he shall be as a man even with thee, and he shall do trustily in (or with) thy menial or homely things. 
If he meeketh himself before thee, and hideth him(self) from thy face, thou shalt have good friendship of one accord or of one will. 
Be thou parted from thine enemies, and take heed of thy friends. 
A faithful friend is a strong defending or strong protection; for-sooth he that findeth him, findeth treasure. 
No comparison is to a faithful friend; weighing of gold and of silver is not worthy against the goodness of his faithfulness. 
A faithful friend is(the) medicine of life, and of undeadliness (or of immortality); and they that dread the Lord, shall find him. 
He that dreadeth the Lord, shall have evenly good friendship; for why his friend shall be at the likeness of him. 
Son, from thy youth take thou doctrine, and till to thine hoar hairs thou shalt find wisdom. 
As he that eareth (or ploweth), and that soweth, nigh thou to it, and abide thou (for) the good fruits there-of. For thou shalt travail a little in the work thereof, and thou shalt eat soon of the generations thereof or the gettings of it. 
Wisdom is over-sharp or is full-sharp to untaught men, and an heart-less man shall not dwell therein. 
As the virtue (or the strength) of a stone, proving shall be in them; and they shall not tarry to cast away it or to throw it afar. 
Forsooth the wisdom of teaching is by the name thereof, and it is not open to many men; but it dwelleth with them, of whom it is known, till to the sight of God. 
Son, hear thou, and take the counsel of understanding, and cast thou not away my counsel. 
Set in thy foot into the stocks thereof, and thy neck into the bies, (or the bands), or the collars thereof. 
Make subject thy shoulder, and bear it, and be thou not annoyed (or harmed) in the bonds thereof. 
In all thy will go to it, and in all thy virtue keep the ways thereof or of it. 
Inquire thou (of or about) it or Ensearch it, and it shall be made open to thee; and thou made holding wisdom forsake not it. 
For in the last things thou shalt find rest therein, and it shall turn or shall be turned to thee into delight-ing. 
And the stocks thereof shall be to thee in defence or protection of strength, and the foundaments of virtue, and the bie(s), (or the bands), or the collars thereof, in(to) a stole of glory. 
For why the fairness of life is in wisdom, and the bonds thereof be heal(th)ful, or wholesome binding. 
Thou shalt wear it as a stole of glory, and thou shalt set or shalt put on thee a crown of thanking. 
Son, if thou takest heed to me, thou shalt learn wisdom; and if thou givest thy will, thou shalt be wise. 
If thou bowest down thine ear, thou shalt take (or receive) teaching; and if thou lovest for to hear, thou shalt be wise. 
Stand thou in the multitude of prudent priests, and be thou joined of (or in) heart to the wisdom of them; 
(so) that thou mayest hear each telling of God, and the proverbs of praising flee or fly not away from thee. 
And if thou seest a wise man, wake thou to him, and thy foot often tread on the grees (or the steps) of his doors. 
Have thou thought in (or on) the commandments of God, and be thou most busy in his behests; and he shall give to thee an heart, and covetous-ness of wisdom shall be given to thee. 
