APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 22.
And he showed to me a river of quick water, shining as crystal, coming forth (out) of the seat of God, and of the lamb, (And he showed me a river of living water, shining like crystal, coming forth from the throne/s of God, and of the Lamb,) 
in the middle of the street of it. And on each side of the river, the tree of life, bringing forth twelve fruits, yielding his fruit by each month; and the leaves of the tree be to health of folks. (down the middle of the city’s street. And on each side of the river, the Tree of Life, bringing forth twelve fruits, yielding its fruit every month of the year; and the leaves of the treebe for the healing of the nations and the peoples.) 
And each cursed thing shall no more be; but the seats of God and of the lamb shall be in it (or but the thrones of God and of the Lamb shall be in it). And the servants of him shall serve him. 
And they shall see his face, and his name shall be in their foreheads. (And they shall see his face, and his name shall be upon their foreheads.) 
And (the) night shall no more be, and they shall not have (any) need to the light of a lantern, neither to (the) light of the sun; for the Lord God shall lighten them or shall light them, and they shall reign into (the) worlds of worlds. (And the night shall be no more, and they shall not have any need for the light from a lantern, nor for the light from the sun; for the Lord God shall give them light, and they shall reign forever and ever.) 
And he said to me, These words be most faithful and true. And the Lord God of spirits of prophets sent his angel, to show to his servants, what things it behooveth to be done soon, (or And the Lord God, who inspired the prophets, sent his angel, to show his servants, what things it behooveth to be done soon). 
And lo! I come swiftly. Blessed is he, that keepeth the words of prophecy of this book. (And behold! I shall come quickly. Blessed (is) he, who obeyeth the words of prophecy in this book.) 
And I am John, that heard and saw these things. And after that I had heard and seen (them), I felled down, to worship before the feet of the angel, that showed to me these things. 
And he said to me, See thou, that thou do not; for I am a servant with thee, and of thy brethren, (the) prophets, and of them that keep the words of prophecy of this book; worship thou God. (And he said to me, See that thou do not do that; for I am a servant along with thee, and with thy brothers, the prophets, and with all those who obey the words of prophecy in this book; worship God.) 
And he said to me, Sign, or seal, thou not the words of prophecy of this book; for the time is nigh. (And he said to me, Do not thou seal up the words of prophecy in this book; for the time is near.) 
He that annoyeth, annoy he yet; and he that is in filths, wax he foul yet; and a just man, be he justified yet; and the holy, be he hallowed yet. (He who harmeth, still harm; and he who is in filth, continue to grow foul; and a righteous man, still be righteous; and the holy, continue to be holy.) 
Lo! I come soon, and my meed (is) with me, to yield to each man after his works. (Behold! I will soon come, and my reward is with me, to yield to each person after their works.) 
I am alpha and omega, the first and the last, beginning and end. (I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, the Source and the Fulfillment.) 
Blessed be they, that wash their stoles, (so) that the power of them be in the tree of life, and (they) enter by the gates into the city. 
For withoutforth shall be shut(the) hounds, and witches, and unchaste men, and man-quellers, and (those) serving to idols, and each that loveth and maketh leasing. (For the hounds, and the witches, and the unchaste, and the murderers, and those who serve idols, and all those who love to tell lies, shall be shut outside.) 
I Jesus sent mine angel, to witness to you these things in (the) churches, (or I Jesus sent my angel to testify to you about these things in the churches). I am the root and (the) kin of David, and the shining morrow star. 
And the Spirit and the spousess or the wife say, Come thou. And he that heareth, say, Come thou; and he that thirsteth, come; and he that will, take he freely the water of life, (or and anyone who desireth, taketh freely of the water of life). 
And I witness to each man hearing the words of prophecy of this book, if any man shall put to these things, God shall put on him the vengeances or the plagues written in this book. (And I testify to everyone who heareth the words of prophecy in this book, if anyone shall add anything to these words, God shall put on him the plagues written in this book.) 
And if any man shall do away of the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away the part of him from the book of life, and from the holy city, and from these things that be written in this book. (And if anyone shall do away with any of the words of prophecy in this book, God shall take away his portion or his share from the Book of Life, and from the holy city, and from these things that be written in this book.) 
He saith, that beareth witnessing of these things, Yea, Amen. Lo! I come soon. Amen. Come thou, Lord Jesus. (He saith, who giveth testimony about these things, Yes, Amen. Behold! I will come soon. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus.) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
