LUKE.
Chapter 11.
And it was done, when he was praying in a place, as he ceased, one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his disciples. 
And he said to them, When ye pray, say ye, Father, or Father ours, (or Our Father), hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come to (or Thy kingdom come); thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven. 
Give to us today our each day’s bread. 
And forgive to us our sins, as we forgive to each man that oweth to us. And lead us not into temptation (or And do not bring us to the test). 
And he said to them, Who of you shall have a friend, and shall go to him at midnight, and shall say to him, Friend, lend to me three loaves; 
for my friend cometh to me from the way, and I have not what I shall set or what I shall put before him. 
And he withinforth answer and say, Do not thou be heavy to me; the door is now shut, and my children be with me in bed; I may not rise, and give (something) to thee, (or I cannot get up, and give something to thee). 
And if he shall dwell still knocking or And if he shall continue knocking, I say to you, though he shall not rise, and give (anything) to him, for that that he is his friend, nevertheless for his continual asking, he shall rise, and give (something) to him, as many as he hath need to (or as much as he hath need of). 
And I say to you, ask ye, and it shall be given to you; seek ye, and ye shall find; knock ye, and it shall be opened to you. 
For each that asketh, taketh (or receiveth), and he that seeketh, findeth; and to a man that knocketh, it shall be opened. 
Therefore who of you asketh his father (for) bread, whether he shall give to him a stone? or if he asketh (for a) fish, whether he shall give to him a serpent for the fish? (or shall he give him a snake instead of the fish?) 
or if he asketh (for) an egg, whether he shall areach to him a scorpion? 
Therefore if ye, when ye be evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more your Father of heaven shall give a good Spirit to men that ask him. 
And Jesus was casting out a fiend (or And Jesus was throwing out a demon), and it was dumb. And when he had cast out the fiend, the dumb man spake; and the people wondered. 
And some of them said, In Beelzebub, (the) prince of devils, he casteth out devils. (And some of them said, By Beelzebub, the Prince of demons, he throweth out demons.) 
And others tempting asked of him a token from heaven. (And others testing him, asked for a sign from heaven.) 
And as he saw the thoughts of them, he said to them, Every realm parted against itself shall be desolate(d), (or Every kingdom divided against itself shall be destroyed unto rubble), and an house shall fall on an house. 
And if Satan be parted against himself, how shall his realm stand? For ye say, that I cast out fiends in Beelzebub. (And if Satan is divided against himself, how can his kingdom stand? For ye say, that I throw out devils and demons by Beelzebub.) 
And if I in Beelzebub cast out fiends, in whom cast out your sons? or in whom your sons cast out? Therefore they shall be your doomsmen. (And if I throw out devils and demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons throw them out? And so they shall be your judges.) 
But if I cast out fiends in the finger of God, then the realm of God is come among you. (But if I throw out devils and demons by the finger of God, then the Kingdom of God hath come among you, or hath come unto you.) 
When a strong, armed man keepeth his house, all things that he wieldeth be in peace (or everything that he possesseth be at peace). 
But if a stronger (man) than he come upon him, and overcome him, he shall take away all his armour or all his arms in which he trusted, (or he shall take away all his weapons in which he trusted), and shall deal abroad his robberies or his spoils. 
He that is not with me, is against me; and he that gathereth not together with me, scattereth abroad. 
When an unclean spirit goeth out of a man, he wandereth by dry places, and seeketh rest; and he finding none, saith, I shall turn again into mine house, from whence I came out, (or and he finding no place to rest, saith, I shall return to my house, where I came from). 
And when he cometh (back), he findeth it cleansed with besoms, and fair arrayed, or adorned, (or he findeth it swept clean, and neat and tidy). 
Then he goeth, and taketh with him (or and getteth with him), seven other spirits worse than himself, and they enter in, and dwell there. And the last things of that man be made worse than the former (things), (or the first things). 
And it was done, when he had said these things, a woman of the company raised up her voice, and said to him, Blessed be the womb that bare thee, and blessed be the teats that thou hast sucked (or and blessed be the breasts that thou hast suckled). 
And he said, But yea, blessed be they, or And he said, Rather, blessed be they, that hear the word of God, and keep it, (or who hear the word of God, and obey it, or do it). 
And when the people ran together, he began to say, This generation is a wayward generation; it seeketh a token (or a sign), and a token shall not be given to it, no but the token of Jonas the prophet (or except the sign of the prophet Jonah). 
For as Jonas was a token to men of Nineve (or For as Jonah was a sign to the men of Nineveh), so man’s Son shall be to this generation. 
The queen of the south shall rise in (the) doom with men of this generation, and shall condemn them; for she came from the ends of the earth, to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and lo! here is a greater (man) than Solomon. (The Queen of the South shall rise at the Judgement with men of this generation, and shall condemn them; for she came from the ends of the earth, to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold! here is something or someone greater than Solomon.) 
Men of Nineve shall rise in the doom with this generation, and shall condemn it; for they did penance in the preaching of Jonas or for they did penance at the preaching of Jonas, and lo! here is a greater (man) than Jonas. (Men of Nineveh shall rise at the Judgement with this generation, and shall condemn it; for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold! here is something or someone greater than Jonah.) 
No man tendeth, or lighteneth, (or lighteth), a lantern, and putteth it in huddles (or hideth it), neither under a bushel, but (rather) on a candlestick, (so) that they that go in(side), see light. 
The lantern of thy body is thine eye; if thine eye be simple, (or if thine eye is single, or is sound), all thy body shall be light-full; but if it be wayward, all thy body shall be dark-full. 
Therefore see thou, lest the light that is in thee, be darknesses (or be darkness). 
Therefore if all thy body be bright, and have no part of darknesses, (or And so if all thy body be bright, and have no part with darkness), it shall be all bright, and as a lantern of brightness it shall give light to thee. Therefore if all thy body shall be light-full, not having any part of darknesses, it shall be all light-full, and as a lantern of brightness, or shining, it shall give light to thee. 
And when he spake, a Pharisee prayed him, that he should eat with him. And he entered, and sat to (the) meat or (and) sat at the meat. (And after he spoke, a Pharisee beseeched him, that he would eat with him. And he entered, and sat down for the meal.) 
And the Pharisee began to say, guessing within himself, why he was not washed before the meat (or why he did not wash before the meal). 
And the Lord said to him, Now ye Pharisees cleanse that that is withoutforth of the cup and the platter; but that thing that is within of you or but that thing of you that is within, is full of raven and wickedness. 
Fools, whether he that made that that is withoutforth, made not also that that is within? 
Nevertheless that that is over-plus, or superfluous, give ye alms, and lo! all things be clean to you. 
But woe to you, Pharisees, that tithe mint, and rue, and each herb, and leave doom and the charity of God (or and pass over the judgement and the love of God). For it behooved to do these things, and not to leave those (others). 
Woe to you, Pharisees, that love the first chairs in synagogues, and salutations in chapping. (Woe to you, Pharisees, who love the first chairs in the synagogues, and greetings of respect at the marketplace.) 
Woe to you, that be as sepulchres (or who be like graves), that be not seen or which appear not, and men walking above know not. 
But one of the wise men of the law answered, and said to him, Master, thou saying these things, also to us doest despite or doest despite also to us. (But one of the men wise in the Law said to him, Teacher, thou saying these things, doest disrespect to us, or insultest us.) 
And he said, Also woe to you, wise men of the law, for ye charge men with burdens which they may not bear, and ye yourselves with your one finger touch not the heavinesses. (And he said, And woe to you, men wise in the Law, for ye load men with burdens which they cannot bear, but ye yourselves touch not the heavinesses with even one finger.) 
Woe to you, that build (the) tombs or the burials of (the) prophets; and your fathers slew them. 
Truly ye witness, that ye consent to the works of your fathers; for they slew them, but ye build their sepulchres. (Ye testify truthfully, that ye consent to the works of your fathers; for they killed the prophets, and ye build their tombs.) 
Therefore the wisdom of God said, I shall send to them prophets and apostles, and of them they shall slay and pursue, (And so the wisdom of God said, I shall send them prophets and apostles, and some of them they shall persecute and kill,) 
(so) that the blood of all the prophets, that was shed from the making or from the beginning of the world, be sought of this generation; (so that the blood of all the prophets, that was shed from the creation of the world, be sought from this generation;) 
from the blood of just Abel to the blood of Zacharias, that was slain betwixt the altar and the House (of the Lord), +or from the blood of Abel unto the blood of Zacharias, which perished between the altar and the house. So I say to you, it shall be sought of this generation. (from the blood of good and righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the Temple. So I tell you, it shall be sought from this generation.) 
Woe to you, wise men of the law, for ye have taken away the key of cunning (or the key of knowing); and ye yourselves entered not in, and ye have forbidden them that entered. (Woe to you, men wise in the Law, for ye have taken away the key of knowledge; and ye yourselves did not enter in, and ye have forbidden those who tried to enter in.) 
And when he said these things to them, the Pharisees and the wise men of the law (or and the men wise in the Law) began grievously to against-stand him, and (to) stop his mouth of many things, 
ambushing him, and seeking to take something of his mouth, to accuse him. (ambushing him, and seeking to catch him with his own words, so as to be able to accuse him.) 
