TOBIT.
Chapter 10.
Soothly when Tobias made tarry-ing for cause of his weddings or by reason of the bridals, Tobit his father was heavied, or anguished, and he said to his wife, Why guessest thou, that my son tarrieth thus, either why he is withholden there? or he is held there thus long? 
Guesseth thou, whether Gabael is dead, and no man yieldeth to him the money? 
Forsooth he began to be sorry full much, and Anna, his wife, with him; and both began to weep together, for that their son (re)turned not home again to them in (or on) the day set. 
Then his mother wept with tears without remedy or with unremediable tears, and said, Alas to me! my son, why sent we thee to go (on) a pilgrimage, thou (who) art the light of our eyes, the staff of our eld (age), the solace of our life, and the hope of our heirs, or after-comers? 
We had all things together in thee alone, and we ought not to have let thee go (away) from us or we should not (have) let thee go from us. 
To whom Tobit said, Be still, and do not thou be troubled or disturbed; our son is whole and safe; for that man is faithful enough, with whom we sent him forth. 
But his mother might not be comforted in any manner, but each day she went out, and looked about after (or for) him, and compassed all the ways, by which the hope of his again-coming (or his coming again) seemed to her, to see him coming (from) afar, if it might be done. 
And soothly Raguel said to (Tobias), the husband of his daughter or his son-in-law, Dwell thou here, or Abide thou here with me, and I shall send a messenger to tell of thine health to Tobit, thy father. 
To whom Tobias said, I know, that my father and my mother reckon now or count the days of mine absence from them, and their spirit is tormented in them. 
And when Raguel had prayed Tobias with many words, and he would not hear Raguel, or consent to him by, or for, any reason, Raguel betook to him Sarah, and half the part of all his chattel, or of all his good(s)or he took to him Sarah, and the half part of all his substance, in servants, and damsels or handmaidens, in sheep and camels, and in kine, and in much money; and he delivered from himself Tobias safe and joying, and said, 
The holy angel of the Lord be in your way, and bring you sound home, or and full bring you sound, (or The holy angel of the Lord be with you on your way, and bring you home safe and sound), and find ye all things rightfully or right about your father and your mother, 
and mine eyes see your sons, before that I die. And (then) the father and mother took their daughter, and kissed her, and let her go forth with Tobias her husband, 
and admonished her to honour the father and mother of her husband or her father- and mother-in-law, and to love her husband, and to rule well her meine (or household), and to govern wisely her house, and to show herself unreprovable (or beyond reproach). 
