PSALMS.
Chapter 33.
Ye just men, have fully joy in the Lord; praising (al)together becometh rightful men. (Ye who be righteous, have full out joy, or rejoice, in the Lord; praising him becometh those who be upright, or obedient.) 
Acknowledge ye to the Lord in an harp; sing ye to him in a psaltery of ten strings. (Praise ye the Lord on a harp; sing ye to him on a ten-stringed lute.) 
Sing ye to him a new song; say ye well psalm to him in crying out. (Sing ye to him a new song; boldly say ye a psalm to him, and shout out loud.) 
For the word of the Lord is rightful (or For the word of the Lord is true); and all his works be (done) in faithfulness. 
He loveth mercy and doom; the earth is full of the mercy of the Lord. (He loveth righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the love of the Lord.) 
Heavens be made steadfast by the word of the Lord; and all the virtue of those by the spirit of his mouth. (The heavens were made by the word of the Lord; yea, all the host of them, by the breath from his mouth.) 
And he gathered together the waters of the sea as in a bouget/as in a bottle; and he setteth deep waters in treasures. (And he gathered the waters of the sea together, like in a bottle; and he put the deep waters in his treasuries, or in his storehouses.) 
All earth dread the Lord; soothly all men inhabiting the world be moved of him. (Let all the earth fear the Lord or Let all the earth revere the Lord; let all those who inhabit the world be in awe of him.) 
For he said, and things were made; he commanded, and things were made of nought, (or he commanded, and everything was made out of nothing!). 
The Lord destroyeth the counsels of folks, forsooth he reproveth the thoughts of peoples; and he reproveth the counsels of princes. (The Lord destroyeth the plans of the nations; he thwarteth the plans of the rulers of the peoples.) 
But the counsel of the Lord dwelleth (into) without end; the thoughts of his heart dwell in generation and into generation. (But the plans of the Lord shall stand forever; the thoughts of his heart shall remain for all generations.) 
Blessed is the folk, whose Lord is his God; the people which he chose into heritage to himself. (Happy is the nation, whose God is the Lord; the people whom he chose for his own inheritance.) 
The Lord beheld from heaven; he saw all the sons of men. (The Lord looked down from heaven; he saw all the sons and daughters of men.) 
From his dwelling place made ready before; he beheld on all men, that inhabit the earth, (or he looketh on all those who inhabit the earth). 
Which made singularly, either each by himself, the souls of them; which understandeth all the works of them. (Who made each one of them individually; and who understandeth all their works, or their deeds.) 
A king is not saved by much virtue, that is, strength; and a giant shall not be saved in the muchliness of his virtue. (A king is not saved by his large host, or his army; and a mighty man shall not be saved by his great strength.) 
An horse is false to health; forsooth he shall not be saved in the abundance, either plenty, of his virtue. (A horse is an empty thing for salvation, or deliverance; for it shall not be able to save anyone by the abundance, or the plentifulness, of its strength.) 
Lo! the eyes of the Lord be on men dreading him; and in them that hope in his mercy. (Behold! the eyes of the Lord (be) upon those who fear, (or who obey, him); and upon those who hope for his mercy./Behold! the eyes of the Lord (be) upon those who revere him; and upon those who trust in his love.) 
That he deliver their souls from death; and feed them in hunger. (So that he can save their souls from death; and feed them in times of famine.) 
Our soul suffereth the Lord, that is, abideth patiently his will, (or Our souls wait for the Lord, yea, we wait patiently for his will to be done); for he is our helper and defender. 
For our heart shall be glad in him; and we shall have hope in his holy name. (And our hearts shall be glad in him; for we have trust in his holy name.) 
Lord, thy mercy be made on us; as we hoped in thee. (Lord, let thy love rest upon us; for we have trusted in thee.) 
