MATTHEW.
Chapter 16.
And the Pharisees and the Sadducees came to him tempting him, and prayed him to show them a token from heaven. (And the Pharisees and the Sadducees came to him to test him, and beseeched him to show them a sign from heaven.) 
And he answered, and said to them, When the eventide is come, ye say, It shall be clear, for heaven is ruddy or for the heaven is red; (And he answered, and said to them, When the evening hath come, ye say, It shall be clear, for the heavens, or the sky, is red;) 
and the morrowtide, Today tempest, for (the) heaven(s) shineth heavily. Then ye know how to deem wisely the face of heaven, but ye may not know the tokens of (the) times. (and in the morning, Today there shall be a storm, for the sky is dark. So ye wisely know how to judge the face of the heavens, but ye cannot discern the signs of the times./but can ye not understand the signs of the times?) 
An evil generation and adulterous seeketh a token; and a token shall not be given to it, but the token of Jonas, the prophet, (or An evil and adulterous generation seeketh a sign; and a sign shall not be given to it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah). And when he had left them, he went forth or he went away. 
And when his disciples came over the sea, they forgot to take loaves. 
And he said to them, Behold ye, and beware of the sourdough of (the) Pharisees and of (the) Sadducees. (And he said to them, Look for, and beware of the yeast, or the leaven, of the Pharisees and the Sadducees.) 
And they thought among themselves, and said, For we have not taken loaves (or Because we have not brought any bread). 
But Jesus witting said to them, What think ye among you of little faith, for ye have not taken loaves? (But Jesus, knowing what they were saying, said to them, Why think ye among yourselves, because we have not brought any bread? O ye of little faith!) 
Yet ye understand not, neither have mind, of five loaves into five thousand of men, and how many coffins ye took (up)? (Yet ye understand not, nor remember, the five loaves for the five thousand men, and how many baskets did ye fill up?) 
neither of seven loaves into four thousand of men, and how many baskets ye took (up)? (nor the seven loaves for the four thousand men, and how many baskets did ye fill up?) 
Why understand ye not, for I said not to you of bread, Be ye ware of the sourdough of (the) Pharisees and of (the) Sadducees? (Why do ye not understand, that I did not speak to you about bread when I said, Beware of the yeast, or the leaven, of the Pharisees and the Sadducees?) 
Then they understood, that he said not to beware of the sourdough of loaves, but of the teaching of (the) Pharisees and of (the) Sadducees. (Then they understood, that he did not say to beware of the yeast, or the leaven, of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.) 
And Jesus came into the parts of Caesarea of Philippi, and asked his disciples, and said, Whom say men to be man’s Son? 
And they said, Some John (the) Baptist; others Elias (or Elijah); and others Jeremy (or Jeremiah), or one of the prophets. 
Jesus said to them, But whom say ye me to be? 
Simon Peter answered, and said, Thou art Christ, the Son of God living or the son of (the) quick God. (Simon Peter answered, Thou art the Messiah, the Son of the living God.) 
Jesus answered, and said to him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona; for flesh and blood showed not to thee, but my Father that is in heavens. 
And I say to thee, that thou art Peter, and on this stone I shall build my church, and the gates of hell shall not have might or power, or strength, against it. 
And to thee I shall give the keys of the kingdom of heavens; and whatever thou shalt bind on earth, shall be bound also in heavens; and whatever thou shalt unbind on earth, shall be unbound also in heavens. 
Then he commanded to his disciples, that they should say to no man, that he was Jesus Christ. 
From that time Jesus began to show to his disciples, that it behooved him to go to Jerusalem, and suffer many things, of the elder men or of the elders, and of the scribes, and of (the) princes of (the) priests, (or and suffer many things, from the elders, and from the scribes, and from the high priests); and be slain, and the third day to rise again. 
And Peter took (hold of) him, and began to blame him (or and began to rebuke him), and said, Far be it from thee, Lord; this shall not be to thee. 
And he turned, and said to Peter, Satan, go thou after me; thou art a cause of stumbling to me; for thou savourest not or thou understandest not those things that be of God, but (only) those things that be of men. 
Then Jesus said to his disciples, If any man will come after me, deny he himself, and take (up) his cross, and (pur)sue me (or and follow me); 
for he that will make his life safe, shall lose it; and he that shall lose his life for me, shall find it. 
For what profiteth it to a man or Soothly what profiteth to a man, if he win all the world, and suffer impairing of his soul? or what (ex)changing shall a man give for his soul? 
For man’s Son shall come in the glory of his Father, with his angels, and then he shall yield to every man after his works. 
Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), there be some of them that stand here (today), which shall not taste death, till they see man’s Son coming in his kingdom. 
