PSALMS.
Chapter 30.
The psalm ofthesong, for the hallowing of the house of David. Lord, I shall enhance thee, for thou hast up-taken me; and thou delightedest not mine enemies on me. (A psalm, yea, a song by David, for the dedication of the House or the Temple. Lord, I shall exalt thee, for thou hast taken me up or for thou hast lifted me up; and thou hast not let my enemies have delight, or to gloat, over me.) 
My Lord God, I cried to thee; and thou madest me whole. 
Lord, thou leddest out my soul from hell; thou savedest me from them that go down into the pit. (Lord, thou hast led me up from Sheol, or the land of the dead; thou hast pulled me out from among those who go down into the pit.) 
Ye saints of the Lord, sing to the Lord; and acknowledge ye to the mind of his holiness (or and give ye thanks at the remembrance of his holiness). 
For ire is in his indignation; and life is in his will. Weeping shall dwell at eventide; and gladness at the morrowtide. (For there is anger in his indignation; but there is life in his favour or in his good will. Weeping shall remain through the evening; but gladness shall come in the morning.) 
Forsooth I said in my plenty; I shall not be moved into without end. (But I said in the midst of my plenty, or of my abundance, I shall never be shaken, or defeated.) 
Lord, in thy will; thou hast given virtue to my fairness. Thou turnedest away thy face from me; and I am made troubled. (Lord, by thy favour, thou hast protected me; yea, like a mountain stronghold. But then thou hast turned thy face away from me; and I was greatly troubled.) 
Lord, I shall cry to thee; and I shall pray to my God. (Lord, I cried to thee; yea, I prayed to my God.) 
What profit is in my blood; while I go down into corruption? Whether dust shall acknowledge to thee; either it shall tell thy truth? (And I said, What profit is there in my death; if I go down into the pit? Shall the dust then praise thee? or can it tell about thy truth?) 
The Lord heard, and had mercy on me; the Lord is made mine helper. (Hear me, Lord, and have mercy on me; Lord, be thou my helper.) 
Thou hast turned my wailing into joy to me; thou hast rent my sackcloth, and hast (en)compassed me with gladness. (And now, thou hast turned my wailing into joy for me; thou hast torn off my sackcloth, and surrounded me with gladness.) 
That my glory sing to thee, and I be not compunct; my Lord God, I shall acknowledge to thee into without end. (So that my spirit may sing to thee, and I shall never be silent; my Lord God, I shall thank thee forever.) 
