DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 24.
And after five days, Ananias, prince of priests, came down with some elder men, and Tertullus, a fair speaker, or an orator, or an advocate, which went to the president against Paul. (And five days later, Ananias, the High Priest, came down with some elders, and Tertullus, an advocate, and they went before the Governor against Paul.) 
And when Paul was summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, and said, When in much peace we do by thee, and many things be amended by thy wisdom, 
(for)evermore and everywhere, thou best Felix, we have received with all doing of thankings. (always and in every place, O most excellent Felix, we be most grateful for this opportunity.) 
But lest I tarry thee longer, I pray thee, shortly hear us for thy meekness. 
We have found this wicked man stirring dissension, to all (the) Jews in all the world, and (the) author of dissension of the sect of Nazarenes; We have found this man bearing venom, or pestilence, and stirring sedition, or dissention, to all the Jews in all the world, and (the) author of sedition of the sect of Nazarenes; 
and he also enforced to defoul the temple; whom also we took (hold of), and would deem after our law. (and he also endeavored to defile the Temple; whom we then took hold of, and would judge according to our Law.) 
But Lysias, the tribune, came above with great strength, and delivered him from or out of our hands; (But Lysias, the commander, came upon us with great strength, and delivered him out of our hands;) 
and commanded his accusers to come to thee, of whom thou deeming (or of whom thou judging), mayest know of all these things, of which we accuse him. 
And (the) Jews put to (or And the Jews agreed), and said, that these things had them so. 
And Paul answered, when the president granted him to say, Of many years I know thee, that thou art doomsman to this folk, and I shall do enough for me with good reason. (And Paul answered, when the Governor allowed him to speak, For many years I know thee, that thou art the judge of these people, and I shall defend myself with sound reasoning.) 
For thou mayest know, for to me be not more than twelve days or for to me be no more than twelve days, since I came up to worship in Jerusalem; 
and neither in the temple they found me disputing with any man, neither making concourse of the people, neither in the synagogues, neither in (the) city; 
neither they may prove to thee, of the which things they now accuse me. (nor can they prove to thee, the things of which they now accuse me.) 
But I acknowledge to thee this thing, that after the sect which they say (to be) heresy, so I serve to God the Father, believing to all things that be written in the law and (the) prophets; 
and I have hope in God, which also they themselves abide, the again-rising to coming of just men and wicked or the again-rising to come of just men and wicked. (and I have this hope in God, which they also wait for, yea, the resurrection to come of both the good or the righteous, and the wicked.) 
In this thing I study without hurting, to have conscience to God, and to men (for)evermore. (In this thing I work diligently, to always have a clear conscience before God, and before men.) 
But after many years, I came to do almsdeeds to my folk (or I came to give gifts of charity to my people), and offerings, and avows or and vows; 
in which they found me purified in the temple, not with company, neither with noise. And they caught (hold of) me, and they cried, and said, Take away our enemy. And some Jews of Asia, 
which it behooved to be now present at thee, or whom it behooved to be now present at thee, (or here before thee), and accuse (me), if they had anything against me, 
either these themselves say, if they (have) found in me anything of wickedness, since I stand in the council, 
but only of this one voice, by which I cried standing among them, For of the again-rising of dead men or For of the again-rising of (the) dead I am deemed this day of you. (but only because of this one thing, which I cried out while standing among them, yea, Because of the resurrection of the dead I am judged, or I am on trial, this day before you.) 
Soothly Felix delayed or deferred them, and knew most certainly of the way, and said, When Lysias, the tribune (or the commander), shall come down, I shall hear you. 
And he commanded to a centurion to keep him, and that he had rest or and to have (some) rest, neither to forbid any man to minister of his own things to him. 
And after some days Felix came, with Drusilla his wife, that was a Jewess, and called Paul, and heard of him the faith that is in Christ Jesus (or and heard from him about faith in the Messiah Jesus). 
And while he disputed of rightwiseness, and chastity, and of doom to coming or and of doom to come, Felix was made trembling, and answered, That pertaineth now, go; but in time covenable, I shall call thee. (And while he disputed about righteousness, and love, and the judgement to come, Felix began to tremble, and answered, That pertaineth for now, now go; but at a suitable time, I shall call for thee again.) 
Also he hoped, that money should be given to him of Paul (or And he hoped, that Paul would give him some money); for which thing again or oft he called him, and spake with him. 
And when two years were ful filled, Felix took a successor, Porcius Festus; and Felix would give grace to the Jews, and left Paul bound, or forsooth Felix willing to give grace to (the) Jews, left Paul bound. 
