ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 43.
The firmament of highness is the fairness thereof or The firmament of the height is the fairness of him; the fairness of heaven in the sight of glory. 
The sun in beholding, telling in going out, is a wonderful vessel, the work of (the) high Godor the (Most) High. 
In the time of midday it burneth the earth; and who shall be able to suffer (or to endure) in the sight of his (or its) heat? 
Keeping a furnace in the works of heat; the sun burning hills in three manners, sending out beams of fire or blasting out fiery beams, and shining again with his (or its) beams, blindeth (the) eyes. 
The Lord is great, that made it; and in the words of him it hast(en)ed (its) journey or hied the way. 
And the moon in all menor things in his (or its) time is(a) show-ing of time, and a sign of the world. 
A sign of the feast or holy day is taken of (or from) the moon; the light which is made little in the end. 
The month is increasing by or after the name thereof, wonderfully into the ending. A vessel of castles (or of the hosts) in high things, shining gloriously in the firmament of heaven. 
The fairness of heaven is the glory of stars; the Lord on high lighteneth the world. 
In (or At) the words of the Holy (One), those (or they) shall stand at the doom; and those shall not fail in their wakings or their watches. 
See thou the rainbow, and bless thou him that made it; it is full fair in his (or its) shining. 
It went about heaven in the compass or the circuit of his (or its) glory; the hands of (the) high Godor the (Most) High opened it. 
By his commandment he hast(en)-ed the snow; and he hast(en)eth to send out the lightnings of his doom. 
Therefore (the) treasures were opened, and clouds fled out or flew away as bees or birds. 
In his greatness he setted the clouds; and stones of hail were broken. 
Hills shall be moved in (or at) his sight; and the south wind shall blow in (or at) his will. 
The voice of his thunder shall beat or beateth the earth; the tem-pest of the north, and the gathering together of (the) wind. And as a bird putting down to sit sprinkleth (or scattereth the) snow, and the coming down of that snow is as a locust drenching (or drowning) down. 
The eye shall wonder or marvel on the fairness of (the) whiteness thereof; and an heart dreadeth or the heart quaketh on the rain thereof. 
He shall shed or pour out frost as salt on the earth; and while the wind bloweth, it shall be made as (the) cops (or tops) of a briar or the bramble (bush). 
The cold northern wind blew, and (the) crystal of (the) water froze together; it resteth on all the gather-ing together of waters, and it clotheth itself with waters, as with an habergeon (or breastplate). 
And it shall devour hills, and it shall burn the desert; and it shall quench green thing as fire. 
The medicine of all things is in the hast(en)ing of a cloud; a dew, meeting the heat coming of (or after the) burning, shall make it low. 
The wind was still or held his peace in (or by) the word of God; by his thought he made peaceable the depth of (the) waters; and the Lord Jesus, that is, God, which is (the) Saviour of all men, planted it. 
They that sail in (or on) the sea, tell out the perils thereof; and we hearing with our ears, shall wonder. 
There be full clear works, and wonderful or marvellous, diverse kinds of beasts, and of all little beasts, and the creature(s), (or the creation), of wonderful fishes. 
The end of (the) way is confirmed for it or (by) him; and all things be made in (or by) the word of him. 
We say many things, and (yet) we fail in words; forsooth he is the (full) ending of words. 
To what thing shall we be mighty, that have (or who hath) glory in all things? for he is all-mighty above or over all his works. 
The Lord is fearedful, and full great; and his power is wonderful. 
Glorify ye the Lord as much as ever ye may or as ye be able to, yet he shall be mightier; and his great doing is wonderful or marvellous. Ye blessing the Lord, enhance (or exalt) him as much as ye may or as ye be able to; for he is more than all praising. Ye enhancing him shall be filled with virtue; travail ye not to know God perfectly in this life, for ye shall not take (or shall not receive it) perfectly, that is, for it is unpossible. 
Who saw him, and shall tell (it) out? and who shall magnify him, as he is from the beginning? 
Many things greater than these be hid from us; for we have seen (only a) few things of his works. 
Forsooth the Lord made all things; and he gave wisdom to men doing faithfully or piously. 
