HEBREWS.
Chapter 9.
And the former testament had justifyings of worship (or And the former covenant had rules for worship), and holy thing(s)(en)during for a time. 
For the tabernacle was made first, in which were candlesticks, and a board (or a table), and (the) setting forth or (the) putting forth of loaves, which is said holy. 
And after the veil, the second tabernacle, that is said sanctum sanctorum, that is, (the)holy of holy things(or the Holy of Holies); 
having a golden censer, and the ark of the testament (or the Covenant Box), covered about on each side with gold, in which was a pot of gold having manna, and the rod of Aaron that flowered, and the tables of the testament (or and the Tablets of the Covenant); 
on which things were cherubims of glory, overshadowing the propitiatory, or (the) mercyable place, (or over which things were the cherubims of God’s glory, or the heavenly cherubim, overshadowing the mercy seat); of which things it is not now to say by all. 
But when these were made thus together, priests entered (for)evermore in(to) the former tabernacle, (or the priests always went into the first tabernacle or tent), doing the offices of (the) sacrifices; 
but in the second tabernacle, the bishop, (or the high priest), aloneentered once in the year, not without blood, which he offered for his ignorance and (for) the people’s. 
For the Holy Ghost signified this thing, that not yet the way of (the) saints was opened, while the former tabernacle had state. (For the Holy Spirit signified this, that the way for God’s people was not yet opened, or was not yet revealed, while the first tabernacle still stood.) 
Which parable is of this present time, by which also gifts and sacrifices be offered, which may not make a man serving perfect by conscience, (Which parable is for this present time, in which gifts and sacrifices also be offered, which cannot make the man who serveth there, or who worshippeth there, inwardly perfect,) 
only in meats (or they only be food), and drinks, and diverse washings, and rightwisenesses of (the) flesh, that were set till to the time of correction. 
But Christ being a bishop of goods to coming, entered by a larger and perfecter tabernacle, not made by hand, that is to say, not of this making, (But the Messiah being the High Priest of the good things to come, entered into a larger and more perfect Tabernacle, or Tent, not made by hands, that is to say, not of this making,) 
neither by (the) blood of goat bucks, or of calves, but by his own blood, entered once into the holy things, that were found by an everlasting redemption. (nor with the blood of goat bucks, or of calves, but with his own blood, he entered once into the Holy of Holies, and obtained eternal deliverance for us.) 
For if the blood of goat bucks, and of bulls, and the ashes of a cow calf sprinkled, halloweth unclean men (un)to the cleansing of (the) flesh, 
how much more the blood of Christ, which by the Holy Ghost offered himself unwemmed to God, shall cleanse our conscience from dead works, to serve (the) God that liveth? or for to serve to (the) living God?(then how much more the blood of the Messiah, who by the Holy Spirit offered himself without fault, or without blemish, to God, shall cleanse our conscience from dead works, to serve the living God?) 
And therefore he is a mediator of the new testament, that by death falling betwixt, into redemption of the trespassings that were under the former testament, they that be called take the behest of everlasting heritage. (And so he is the mediator of the new covenant, which by death falling between, for the redemption of the trespasses that were under the former covenant, they who be called receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.) 
For where a testament is, it is need(ful), (or For where there is a testament, it is needed), that the death of the testament-maker come betwixt. 
For a testament is confirmed in dead men; (or) else it is not (of) worth, (or) else it is (of) no worth, while he liveth, that made the testament (or who made the testament). 
Wherefore neither the first testament was hallowed without blood. 
For when each commandment of the law was read of Moses to all the people (or Because when Moses read each commandment of the Law to the people), he took the blood of calves, and of bucks of goats, with water, and red wool, and hyssop, and besprinkled both that book and all the people, 
and said, This is the blood of the testament that God commanded to you. (and said, This is the blood that sealeth the covenant which God hath commanded that you obey.) 
Also he sprinkled with blood the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the service in like manner. 
And almost all things be cleansed in blood by the law; and without shedding of blood remission of sins is not made (or and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins). 
Therefore it is need(ful), (or And so it is needed), that the exemplars of heavenly things be cleansed with these things; but those heavenly things with better sacrifices than these (sacrifices). 
For Jesus entered not into (the) holy things made by hands, that bethe exemplars of very things, but into heaven itself, that he appear now to the face of God for us; (Because Jesus did not enter into the Holy Place made with hands, which is the example, or the figure, or the shadow, of the true place, but into heaven itself, so that now he appear before God or in the presence of God, for us;) 
neither that he offer himself oft, as the bishop entered into (the) holy things by all years in alien blood, (nor that he offer himself often, like the high priest who entered into the Holy of Holies each year with blood not his own,) 
(or) else it behooved him to suffer oft from the beginning of the world; but now once in the ending of the worlds, to the destruction of sin by his sacrifice he appeared. 
And as it is ordained to men, once to die, but after this is the doom (or but after this is the Judgement), 
so Christ was offered once, to void, or (to) do away, the sins of many men; the second time he shall appear without sin to men that abide him into health. (so the Messiah was offered once, to do away the sins of many men; the second time he shall appear without sin to those who wait for him unto salvation, or for deliverance.) 
