APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 11.
And a reed like a rod was given to me, and it was said to me, Rise thou, and mete the temple of God, and the altar, and (the) men that worship in it. (And a reed like a measuring rod was given to me, and it was said to me, Rise, and measure the Temple of God, and the altar, and the number of those who worship in it.) 
But cast thou out the foreyard or the porch, that is without the temple, and mete not it; for it is given to (the) heathen men, and they shall defoul the holy city by forty months and twain. (But ignore the outer courtyard, which is outside the Temple, and do not measure it; for it was given to the Gentiles, and they shall defile the holy city for forty-two months.) 
And I shall give to my two witnesses (or And I shall send my two witnesses), and they shall prophesy (for) a thousand days two hundred and sixty, and they shall be clothed with sackcloths. 
These be two olives, and two candlesticks, (or They be the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks), and they stand in the sight of the Lord of the earth. 
And if any man will annoy (or will harm) them, fire shall go out of the mouth(s) of them, and (it) shall devour their enemies. And if any man will hurt them, thus it behooveth him to be slain. 
These have (the) power to close, or to shut up, (the) heaven(s), that it rain not in the days of their prophecy; and they have power on waters, to turn them into blood; and to smite the earth with every plague, and as oft as they will. (They have the power to close up the heavens, so that it will not rain in the days of their prophecy; and they have power over the waters, to turn them into blood; and to strike the earth with every plague, and as often as they desire.) 
And when they shall end their witnessing, the beast that ascendeth up from (the) deepness or from the depth, shall make battle against them, and shall overcome them, and shall slay them. (And when they shall end their testimony, the beast that goeth up from the abyss, shall make battle against them, and shall overcome them, and shall kill them.) 
And the bodies of them shall lie in the streets of the great city, that is called ghostly Sodom, and Egypt, (or that is spiritually or symbolically called Sodom, or Egypt), where the Lord of them was crucified. 
And some of the lineages, and of peoples, and of languages, and of heathen men, shall see the bodies of them by three days and an half; and they shall not suffer the bodies of them to be put in burials. (And some of the tribes, and of the peoples, and of the languages, and of the Gentiles, shall behold their bodies for three and a half days; and they shall not allow their bodies to be buried.) 
And men inhabiting the earth shall have joy on them; and they shall make merry, and shall send gifts together, for these two prophets tormented them that dwell on the earth. (And all those inhabiting the earth shall rejoice over them; and they shall make merry, and shall send gifts to each other, for these two prophets tormented all who lived on the earth.) 
And after three days and an half, the Spirit of (the) life of God entered into them; and they stood on their feet, and great dread fell on them that saw. (But after three and a half days, the breath of life from God entered into them; and they stood upon their feet, and great fear fell upon those who saw them.) 
And they heard a great voice from heaven, saying to them, Come up hither. And they ascended up into heaven in a cloud, and the enemies of them saw them. (And they heard a loud voice from heaven, saying to them, Come up here. And they went up into heaven in a cloud, and their enemies saw them.) 
And in that hour a great earth-moving was made, and the tenth part of the city fell down; and the names of men seven thousand were slain in the earth-moving; and the others were sent into dread, and gave glory to (the) God of heaven. (And at that moment there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell down; and seven thousand men were killed in the earthquake; and the others were sent into fear or terror, and gave glory to the God of heaven.) 
The second woe is gone, and lo! the third woe shall come soon. 
And the seventh angel trumped, and great voices were made in heaven, and said, The realm of this world is made our Lord’s, and of Christ or and Christ’s, his Son, or is made of our Lord, and of Christ, his Son; and he shall reign into worlds of worlds. Amen. (And the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and loud voices were heard in heaven, and they said, The Kingdom of this world is now our Lord’s, and the Messiah’s, His Son; and he shall reign forever and ever. Amen.) 
And the four and twenty elder men, that sat in their seats in the sight of the Lord, fell on their faces, and worshipped God, (And the twenty-four elders, who sat on their thrones before the Lord, fell on their faces, and worshipped God,) 
and said, We do thankings to thee, Lord God almighty, which art, and which were, and which art to coming or and which art to come; which hast taken thy great virtue, and hast reigned. (and said, We give thanks to thee, Lord God Almighty, who art, and who was, and who art to come; yea, thou hast taken thy great power, and hast reigned.) 
And folks be wroth, and thy wrath came, and (the) time of dead men to be deemed, and to yield meed to thy servants, and prophets, and hallows, and (those) dreading thy name, to small and to great, and to destroy them that corrupted the earth. (And the nations and the peoples were angry, and thy wrath came, and the time for the dead to be judged, and to give reward to thy servants, and thy prophets, and thy saints or thy people, and all those who have fearful reverence for thy name, yea, to small and to great, and to destroy those who corrupted the earth.) 
And the temple of God in heaven was opened, and the ark of his testament was seen in his temple; and lightnings were made, and voices, and thunders, and earth-moving, and great hail. (And God’s Temple in heaven was opened, and the Covenant Box was seen in his Temple; and there was lightning, and sounds, and thunder, and an earthquake, and great hail.) 
