1ST THESSALONIANS.
Chapter 5.
But, brethren, of times and moments ye need not that I write to you. 
For ye yourselves know diligently, that the day of the Lord shall come, as a thief in the night. (For ye yourselves assuredly know, that the Day of the Lord shall come, like a thief in the night.) 
For when they shall say peace is, and secureness, then sudden death shall come on them +or then suddenly perishing shall come on them, as sorrow to a woman that is with child, and they shall not escape. 
But, brethren, ye be not in darknesses, that that day as a thief catch you. (But, brothers, ye do not be in darkness, so that that day shall catch you like a thief.) 
For all ye be the sons of light, and sons of the day; we be not of night, neither of darknesses. (For all of ye be the children of the light, and the children of the day; we do not be of the night, nor of the darkness.) 
Therefore sleep we not as others; but wake we, and be we sober. (And so let us not sleep like others; but watch, and be resolute.) 
For they that sleep, sleep in the night, and they that be drunken, be drunken in the night. 
But we that be of the day, be sober, clothed in the habergeon of faith and of charity, and in the helmet of hope of health. (But we who be of the day, be resolute, clothed in the breastplate of faith and of love, and in the helmet of the hope of salvation.) 
For God putted not us into wrath, but into the purchasing of health (or but unto the getting of salvation), by our Lord Jesus Christ, 
that was dead for us (or who died for us); (so) that whether we wake, whether we sleep, we live together with him. 
For which thing comfort ye together (or For which thing strengthen ye one another), and edify ye each other, as ye do. 
And, brethren, we pray you, that ye know them that travail among you, and be sovereigns to you or be before to you in the Lord, and (who) teach you, (And, brothers, we beseech you, that ye acknowledge and honour those who labour among you, and be your leaders in the Lord, and who teach you,) 
that ye have them more abundantly in charity (or and that ye have more love for them); and for the work of them, have ye peace with them. 
And, brethren, we pray you, reprove unpeaceable men, or reprove ye, or chastise, unquiet men. Comfort ye men of little heart, receive ye sick men, be ye patient to all men. (And, brothers, we beseech you, rebuke the unpeaceable, or chastise the troublesome. Strengthen men of faint heart, receive the frail, or support the weak, and be patient with all men.) 
See ye, that no man yield evil for evil to any man; but (for)evermore (pur)sue ye that that is good, each to (the) other, and to all men. (Ensure, that no one give back evil for evil to anyone; but always pursue that which is good, for one another, and for all people.) 
(For)Evermore joy ye; (Always have joy;) 
without ceasing pray ye; 
in all things do ye thankings. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus, in all you. (in all things give thanks. For this is the will of God in the Messiah Jesus, for all of you.) 
Do not ye quench the Spirit, 
do not ye despise prophecies. 
But prove ye all things, and hold ye (fast, or firm), (to) that thing that is good. 
Abstain ye you(rselves) from all evil species, or (all evil) likeness. (Absent yourselves from anything that hath even the appearance of evil.) 
And God himself of peace make you holy by all things, that your spirit be kept whole, and soul, and body, without (com)plaint, in the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. (And God himself, the God of peace, make you holy in everything, so that your spirit, and your soul, and your body, be kept whole, yea, without fault, into the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.) 
God is true, that called you, which also shall do (a) work of grace in you. 
Brethren, pray ye for us. 
Greet ye well all (the) brethren in (a) holy kiss. (Give hearty greetings to all the brothers with a holy kiss.) 
I charge you by the Lord, that this epistle be read to all (of the) holy brethren. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. 
