MARK.
Chapter 2.
And again he entered into Capernaum, after eight days. And it was heard, that he was in an house, 
and many came together, so that they might not be in the house, nor at the gate. And he spake to them the word. 
And there came to him men that brought a man sick in the palsy, which was borne of four men. And there came to him men bringing or bearing a sick man in palsy, the which was borne of four men.(And there came to him men that brought a man sick with palsy, who was carried by four men.) 
And when they might not bring him to Jesus for the people, they uncovered the roof where he was, and they opened it, and they let down the bed in which the sick man in palsy lay. 
And when Jesus had seen the faith of them, he said to the sick man in palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven to thee. 
But there were some of the scribes sitting (there), and thinking in their hearts, 
What speaketh he thus? He blasphemeth; who may forgive sins, no but God alone? (Why speaketh he thus? He blasphemeth; for who can forgive sins, except God alone?) 
And anon when Jesus had known this by the Holy Ghost, that they thought so within themselves, he saith to them, What think ye these things in your hearts? (And at once when Jesus had known this by the Holy Spirit, that they thought so within themselves, he said to them, Why think these things in your hearts?) 
What is lighter (or is easier) to say to the sick man in palsy, Sins be forgiven to thee, or to say, Rise (up), take thy bed, and walk? 
But (so) that ye know that man’s Son hath power in earth (or on the earth) to forgive sins, he said to the sick man in palsy, 
I say to thee, rise up, take thy bed, and go into thine house. 
And anon he rose up, and when he had taken the bed, he went before all men, so that all men wondered, and honoured God, and said, For we saw never so. (And at once he rose up, and when he had taken the bed, he went forth before everyone, so that everyone wondered, and worshipped God, and said, For we have never seen anything like this.) 
And he went out again to the sea, and all the people came to him; and he taught them. 
And when he passed (by), he saw Levi of Alphaeus sitting at the tollbooth, and he said to him, (Pur)Sue me. And he rose, and (pur)sued him. (And when he passed by, he saw Levi of Alphaeus sitting at the tollbooth, and he said to him, Follow me. And he rose, and followed him.) 
And it was done, when he sat at the meat in his house, many publicans and sinful men sat together at the meat with Jesus and his disciples; for there were many that followed him. (And it was done, when he sat at a meal in his house, many tax-collectors and sinners sat there at the meal with Jesus and his disciples; for there were many that followed him.) 
And (the) scribes and (the) Pharisees seeing, that he ate with publicans and sinful men, said to his disciples, Why eateth and drinketh your master with publicans and sinners? (And the scribes and the Pharisees seeing, that he ate with tax-collectors and sinners, said to his disciples, Why eateth and drinketh your teacher with tax-collectors and sinners?) 
When this was heard, Jesus said to them, Whole men have no need to a leech, (no) but they that be evil-at-ease (do), or (no) but they that have evil (do), (Healthy men have no need for a physician, only those who have sickness); for I came not to call just men, but sinners. 
And the disciples of John and the Pharisees were fasting; and they came, and said to him, Why fast the disciples of John, and the Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not? 
And Jesus said to them, Whether the sons of the spousals or of the weddings may fast, as long as the spouse is with them? As long (a) time as they have the spouse with them, they may not fast, (or they cannot fast, or they shall not fast). 
But (the) days shall come, when the spouse shall be taken away from them, and then they shall fast in those days. 
No man seweth a patch of new cloth to an old cloth, else he taketh away the new patch from the old, and a more breaking is made. (No one seweth a patch of new cloth onto an old cloak, because the new patch will tear away from the old, and a bigger hole will be made.) 
And no man putteth new wine into old bottles, else the wine shall burst the bottles, and the wine shall be shed out, and the bottles shall perish. But new wine shall be put into new bottles. And no man putteth new wine into old wine vessels, else the wine shall burst or shall break the wine vessels, and the wine shall be poured out, and the wine vessels shall perish. But new wine oweth (or ought) to be put into new wine vessels. 
And it was done again, when the Lord walked in the sabbaths by the corns (or when the Lord walked through a cornfield on the Sabbath), and his disciples began to pass forth or to go forth, and to pluck (the) ears of the corn. 
And the Pharisees said to him, Lo! what thy disciples do in the sabbaths, that is not leaveful. (And the Pharisees said to him, Behold! what thy disciples do on the Sabbath, that is not lawful.) 
And he said to them, Read ye never what David did, when he had need, and he hungered, and they that were with him? 
How he went into the house of God, under Abiathar, (the) prince of (the) priests, and ate (the) loaves of proposition, either of setting forth, which it was not leaveful to eat, no but to (the) priests alone, and he gave to them that were with him. (How he went into the House of God, under the High Priest Abiathar, and ate the loaves of proposition, or the showbread, which it was not lawful to eat, except for the priests, and he gave some to those who were with him.) 
And he said to them, The sabbath is made for man, and not man for the sabbath; 
and so man’s Son is Lord also of the sabbath. 
