JOHN.
Chapter 2.
And the third day weddings were made in the Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there. 
And Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the weddings. 
And when wine failed, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have not wine (or They have no wine). 
And Jesus saith to her, What to me and to thee, woman? mine hour came not yet. (And Jesus said to her, What is it to me or to thee, woman? my hour hath not come yet, or it is not yet my time.) 
His mother saith to the ministers, Whatever thing he saith to you, do ye. (His mother said to the servants, Whatever he saith to you, do it.) 
And there were set (there) six stone cans, after the cleansing of the Jews, holding each two or three metretes. Forsooth there were put six stone pots, after the cleansing of (the) Jews, taking each two or three measures.(And there were put there six stone pots, or six stone water jars, for the purification rites of the Jews, each one holding two or three measures, or twenty or thirty gallons.) 
And Jesus saith to them, Fill ye the pots with water. And they filled them, up to the mouth or unto the highest part. 
And Jesus said to them, Draw ye (it) now, and bear ye to the master of the feast. And they bare (it to him). 
And when the master of the feast had tasted the water made (into) wine, and knew not whereof it was, but the ministers knew that drew the water (or but the servants who drew the water knew), the master of the feast calleth the spouse, 
and saith to him, Each man setteth first good wine, and when men be full-filled, then that that is worse; but thou hast kept the good wine into this time. 
Jesus did this the beginning of signs (or Jesus did this, the first of his miracles), in the Cana of Galilee, and showed his glory; and his disciples believed in him. 
After these things he came down to Capernaum, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples; and they dwelled there not many days. 
And the pask of (the) Jews was nigh (or And the Passover of the Jews was near), and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
And he found in the temple men selling oxen, and sheep, and culvers, and money-changers sitting (there). (And he found men in the Temple selling oxen, and sheep, and doves and pigeons, and money-changers sitting there.) 
And when he had made as it were a scourge of small cords, he drove out all of (or from) the temple, and (the) oxen, and (the) sheep; and he shedded out the money of (the) changers, and turned upside-down the boards, (or and he poured out the money of the money-changers, and turned upside-down their tables). +And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he cast all out of the temple, and sheep, and oxen; and he shedded out the money of (the) changers, and turned upside-down the boards. 
And he said to them that sold culvers (or And he said to those who sold the doves and pigeons), Take away from hence these things, and do not ye make the house of my Father (into) an house of merchandise. 
And his disciples had mind, for it was written, (or And his disciples remembered, that it is written), The fervent love of thine house hath eaten me. Forsooth his disciples had mind, for it is written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me (or My zeal for thine house hath consumed me). 
Therefore the Jews answered, and said to him, What token or What sign showest thou to us, that thou doest these things? 
Jesus answered, and said to them, Undo ye this temple (or Destroy this temple), and in three days I shall raise it (up again). 
Therefore the Jews said to him, In forty and six years this temple was builded, and shalt thou in three days raise it (up again)? (And so the Jews said to him, This Temple took forty-six years to build, and shalt thou raise it up again in three days?) 
But he said of the temple of his body. 
Therefore when he was risen from death, his disciples had mind (or his disciples remembered), that he said these things of his body, Therefore when he had risen from (the) dead, his disciples had mind, for he said this thing; and they believed to the scripture, and to the word that Jesus said. 
And when Jesus was at Jerusalem in pask, in the feast day, many believed in his name, seeing his signs that he did. (And when Jesus was in Jerusalem for Passover, on the Feast Day, or for the Festival, many believed in him, seeing the miracles that he did.) 
But Jesus trusted not himself to them, for he knew all men; 
and for it was not need(ful) to him, that any man should bear witnessing of (a) man, for he knew, what was in (each) man. (and he did not need, that anyone should testify about anyone else, for he knew, what was in each person.) 
