PROVERBS.
Chapter 2.
My son, if thou receivest my words, and hidest my behests with thee (or and hidest my commands with thee); 
(so) that thine ear hear wisdom, bow (down) thine heart to know prudence. 
For if thou inwardly callest (to) wisdom, and bowest thine heart to(ward) prudence; 
if thou seekest it as money, and diggest it out as treasures; 
then thou shalt understand the dread of the Lord, and shalt find the knowing of God. (then thou shalt understand the fear of the Lord or then thou shalt understand reverence for the Lord, and shalt find the knowledge of God.) 
For the Lord giveth wisdom; and prudence and knowing is of his mouth. (For the Lord giveth wisdom; and understanding and knowledge cometh from his mouth.) 
He shall keep the health of rightful men, and he shall defend them that go simply. (He shall keep safe the salvation, or the deliverance, of the righteous, and he shall defend those who go with honesty, or with integrity.) 
And he shall keep (safe) the paths of rightwiseness, and he shall keep (safe) the ways of holy men. 
Then thou shalt understand rightfulness, and doom, and equity, and each good path. (Then thou shalt understand righteousness, and judgement, and fairness, and each good way.) 
If wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowing pleaseth thy soul, 
good counsel shall keep thee, and prudence shall keep thee; (good advice shall keep thee safe, and understanding shall keep thee safe;) 
(so) that thou be delivered from an evil way, and from a man that speaketh wayward things (or and from the person who speaketh wicked things). 
Which forsake a rightful way, (or From those who abandon the right way), and go by dark ways; 
which be glad, when they have done evil, and make full out joy in worst things; (who be glad, when they have done evil, and rejoice in the worst things;) 
whose ways be wayward, and their goings be of evil fame. (whose ways be wicked, and whose deeds be shameful.) 
That thou be delivered from an alien woman, and from a strange woman, that maketh soft her words; (And so that thou be rescued from a strange, or an unknown, woman, who maketh her words soft;) 
and (who) forsaketh the duke, or (the) leader, of her time of marriage, and hath forgotten the covenant of her God. 
For the house of her is bowed to death, and her paths to hell. (For her house is on the way to death, and her paths lead down to Sheol, or the land of the dead, or and her paths lead down to hell.) 
All that enter to her, shall not turn again, neither they shall catch the paths of life. (All who go to her, shall never return, nor shall they ever walk again on the paths of life.) 
That thou go in a good way, and keep the paths of just men. (So see that thou go on a good way, and keep to the paths of the righteous.) 
Forsooth they that be rightful, shall dwell in the land; and simple men shall perfectly dwell therein. (For they who be upright, shall live in the land; and those who be honest, or and those with integrity, shall live there.) 
But unfaithful men shall be lost from the land; and they that do wickedly, shall be taken away from it. (But the unfaithful shall be destroyed from off the land; and those who do wickedly, shall be taken away from it.) 
