TITUS.
Chapter 3.
Admonish them to be subjects to princes or Admonish them to be subject to princes, and to powers; to obey to that that is said, and to be ready to (do) all good work(s); 
to blaspheme no man, to be not full of chiding, but temperate or patient, showing all mildness to all men (or showing meekness and humility to everyone). 
For we were sometime unwise, unbelieveful, erring, and serving to desires, and to diverse lusts, doing in malice and envy, worthy to be hated, hating each other. 
But when the benignity and the manhood or the humanity of our Saviour God appeared, 
not of works of rightwiseness that we did, but by his mercy he made us safe, by the washing, or (the) baptism, of (the) again-begetting, and (the) again-newing of the Holy Ghost, (not because of works of righteousness that we did, but by his mercy he saved us, by the washing, or the baptism, of rebirth, and the renewing power of the Holy Spirit,) 
whom he shedded out into us plenteously by Jesus Christ, our Saviour, 
that we justified by his grace, be heirs by hope of everlasting life. (so that we who be justified by his grace, be heirs through the hope of eternal life.) 
A true word is this, and of these things I will that thou confirm others, that they that believe in God, be busy to be above others or to be before others in good works. These things be good, and profitable to men. (This is a true word, and I desire that thou confirm these things to others, so that they who believe in God, be busy to be before others, or ahead of others, in doing good works. These things be good, and profitable for everyone.) 
And eschew thou foolish questions, and genealogies, and strivings or and strives, and fightings of the law; for those be unprofitable and vain. (And shun foolish questions, and genealogies, and fights, and arguments over the Law; for they be empty and useless.) 
Eschew thou or Shun thou a man heretic, after one and the second correction; 
witting that he that is such a manner man is subverted, and trespasseth, and is condemned by his own doom (or by his own judgement). 
When I send to thee Artemas, or Tychicus, hie thou or (make) haste to come to me to Nicopolis; for I have purposed to dwell in winter there. (When I send Artemas, or Tychicus, to thee, hasten to come to me at Nicopolis; for I have decided to remain there for the winter.) 
Busily before send Zenas or Busily send before Zenas, a wise man of (the) law, and Apollos, (so) that nothing fail to them. (With whatever assistance you can provide, send forth Zenas, a man wise in the Law, and Apollos, so that nothing is lacking for them.) 
They that be of ours, learn to be governors or to be before in good works, (or Those who be of us, learn to be leaders in good works, or the first to do good works), to necessary uses, (and) that they be not without fruit. 
All men that be with me greet thee well. Greet thou well them, that love us in the faith. The grace of God be with you all. Amen. (All who are with me send hearty greetings to thee. Give hearty greetings to those in the faith who love us. The grace of God be with you all. Amen.) 
