ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 32.
They have set thee a governor, do not thou be enhanced (or exalted); be thou among them as one of them. Have thou (the) care of them, and so behold thou; and when all thy care is filled, sit thou to meat or (to) rest. 
That thou be glad for them, and take the ornament of grace; and get (a) crown, and (the) dignity of (the) congregation (or assembly). 
Speak thou, the greater man in birth; for why the word of him that loveth cunning, (or knowing, or knowl-edge) become thee first; and hinder thou not (the) music. 
Where hearing is not, shed or pour thou not out a word; and do not thou be enhanced uncovenably (or inopportunely) in thy wisdom. 
A gem of carbuncle in the ornament of gold; and comparison of musics in the feast of wine. 
As in the making or (the) forging of gold is a signet of smaragdus (or emerald), so the number of musics is in merry and measurable or temper-ate wine. 
Hear thou (while) being still, and good grace shall come to thee for reverence. Young man, speak thou scarcely in (or for) thy cause, (only) when need is. If thou art asked twice, the head have thine answer. 
In many things be thou as uncunning (or as unknowing), and hear thou (while) being still (al)to-gether, and asking or seeking. 
And presume thou not to speak in the midst of great men; and where eld or old men be, speak thou not much. 
Lightning shall go before hail, and grace shall go before shamefastness, and good grace shall come to thee for reverence. 
And in the hour of rising, trifle thee not, that is, make thee no tarrying in arraying, either trifling of hairs, as women do; forsooth run thou before first into thine house, and there call thou thee to answeror and there be thou called to, and there play thou. 
And do thy conceits or thy conceivings, that is, perform thy good purpose conceived there, and not in sins, and in a proud word. 
On all these things, bless thou the Lord, that made thee, and filling thee greatly of (or with) all his goods. 
He that dreadeth God, shall take his teaching; and they that wake to him, shall find blessing. 
He that seeketh the law, shall be filled thereof; and he that doeth traitorously, shall be caused to stumble therein. 
They that dread God, shall find just doom; and shall kindle rightful-ness or rightwisenesses as (a) light. 
A sinful man, that is, obstinate in sin, shall eschew blaming or shall shun correction; and after his will (or according to his desire), he shall find comparison. 
A man of counsel shall not lose or destroy understanding; (but) a man alien and proud shall not dread dreading. Yea, after that he hath done with that dread without counsel, and he shall be reproved by his pursuings or his followings. 
Son, do thou nothing without counsel; and after the deed thou shalt not repent. 
Go thou not in the way of falling, and offend (or stumble) thou not against (the) stones or and thou shalt not offend (or stumble) against (the) stones. 
Betake thou not thee to a travail-ous way, lest thou set slander to thy soul (or thou cause thy own soul to stumble); 
and be thou ware of thy sons, and perceive thou or take heed of thy menials. 
In all thy work believe thou by (or in the) faith of thy soul; for why this is the keeping of (the) command-ments. 
He that believeth to (or in) God, taketh heed to the commandments; and he that trusteth in him, shall not be made less, either deceived. 
