TOBIT.
Chapter 8.
And after that they had supped, they brought the young man Tobias in to her. 
And Tobias bethought him (self) of (or on) the words of (Raphael) the angel, and brought forth, or he drew out of (or from) his scrip or his bag a part of the maw of the fish, and he putted it upon (the) quick (or the live) coals. 
And then Raphael, the angel, took the fiend or the devil, and bound him fast(or securely) in the desert of higher Egypt. 
Then Tobias admonished the virgin or the maiden, and said to her, Sarah, rise up, and pray we (to) God today, and tomorrow, and the second morrow or and after tomorrow; for in these three nights we be joined to God; and when the third night is passed, we shall be in our marriage or wedlock; 
for we be the children of holy men, and we may not, or we be not able to be joined or coupled together as (the) heathen men or as (the) Gentilesbe, that know not God. 
Soothly they rose up together, and they both prayed together busily, that health (or deliverance) should be given to them. 
And Tobias said, Lord God of our fathers, (the) heavens, and all lands or earths, and the sea, and wells, and floods (or rivers), and each creature of thine, that is in those, bless thee; 
thou madest Adam (out) of the slime of the earth, and thou gavest to him an help (or a helper), Eve. 
And now, Lord, thou knowest, that I take my sister to (or for my) wife, not for cause or because of lechery, but for love alone of heirs, or of begetting or of bringing forth of children, in which thy name be blessed into worlds of worlds. 
And then Sarah said, Lord, have thou mercy on us, have thou mercy on us, and wax we both eld together whole in body and soul. 
And it was done about the cock’s crowing or the crowing of the cock’s, Raguel made or commanded his servants to be called, and they went with him to dig a grave. 
For he dreaded, lest it had befallen in like manner to Tobias, that befelled also to the other seven men, that entered into wedlock to (or with) Sarah before. 
And when they had made ready a pit, Raguel went again to his wife, and said to her, 
Send one of thine handmaids, and see she, whether Tobias is dead, (so) that I (can) bury him, before that (the) light of day come. 
And she sent one of her hand-maids, which entered into the closet, or into the bed-placeor (the) bed chamber, and found them safe and sound, sleeping together by them-selves (or with each other). 
And she (re)turned again, and told (a) good message. And they blessed the Lord, that is, Raguel and Edna, his wife, 
and said, Lord God of Israel, we bless thee, for it hath not befallen to us, as we (had) guessed; 
for thou hast done thy mercy with us, and hast shut out from us the enemy pursuing us. 
Soothly thou hast done mercy with (those) two alone. My Lord, make thou them to bless thee fullier or more fully, and for to offer to thee the sacrifice of thy praising, and of their health (or their deliverance), (so) that the university, or the multitude, of folks know, that thou art God alone in all (the) earth. 
And anon (or at once) Raguel commanded his servants to fill (in) the pit, which they had made, before that (the) light of day came or before that it waxed light. 
And Raguel said to his wife, that she should array a feast, and make ready all things, that were needful to men making journey or were neces-sary to (or for) way-goers. 
Also he made to be slain two fat kine, and four weathers (or four rams), and plenteous meats to be made ready to (or for) all his neighbours, and to (or for) all his friends. 
And Raguel made Tobias to swear, or to promise him, that he should abide with him (for) two weeks. 
And (of) all (the) things, that Raguel had in possession, he gave the half part to Tobias; and he made this scripture (or a written obligation), that the half part, that was left of his chattel, should come to the lordship of Tobias after the death of him and his wife. 
