3RD EZRA.
Chapter 2.
Reigning Cyrus, king of Persia, in the fulfilling of the word of the Lord, in the mouth of Jeremy (or Jeremiah), 
the Lord raised up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia; and he preached in(to) all his realm (al)together by scripture (or by writing), 
saying, These things saith Cyrus, king of Persia, The Lord of Israel, the high Lord, hath ordained me king to the world of earths (or over the whole earth); 
and he signified to me to build to (or for) him an house in Jerusalem, that is in Judah. 
If there is any man of your kindred, his Lord go up with him into Jerusalem. 
Therefore how many ever dwell in places about, help they them that dwell in that place, in gold and silver, 
in gifts, with horse(s), and beasts, and with other things, the which after vows be laid up into the house of the Lord, that is in Jerusalem. 
And the standing princes of (the) lineages of (the) towns of Judah, of the lineage of Benjamin, and priests and deacons or Levites, whom the Lord stirred to wend or to go up, and to build up the house of the Lord, that is in Jerusalem; 
and they, that were in the environ, or in (the) compass, of them, should help in (or with) all silver and gold of it, and in (or with) beasts, and in (or with) many vows; and many others, of whom the wit is stirred, help they also. 
And king Cyrus brought forth the sacred vessels of the Lord, the which Nebuchadnezzar translated (or brought over) from Jerusalem, and (had made) sacred (or consecrated) them in his (temple of) maumet(s). 
And Cyrus, king of Persia, bringing them forth, took those to Mithradates, that was upon (or over) the treasures of him. 
Forsooth by him they be taken to Sanabassar, governor of Judea. 
Of these things forsooth this is the number; silvern hallowed vessels of liquors (or for liquids), two thousand and four hundred; thirty silvern drink-ing vessels; thirty golden vials (or phials); and two thousand and four hundred silvern vials (or phials); and a thousand other vessels. 
Forsooth all the golden and silvern vessels were four thousand and four hundred and eight and sixty. 
And they be delivered out to Sanabassar, together with them, that were come into Jerusalem of the captivity, or thralldom, of Babylon. 
Forsooth in the time of Artaxerxes, king of Persia, there wrote to him, of these that dwelled in Judea and in Jerusalem, Belemus, and Mithradates, and Tabellius, and Rathymus, Beelteth-mus, and Semellius, the scribe, and others dwelling in Samaria, and in other places, they wrote this subject letter to king Artaxerxes. 
Lord, thy children (or thy servants) Rathymus, and Semellius, the scribe, and other doomsmen of thy court, of things that fall in Celosyria and Phenice (or in Greater Syria and Phoenicia). 
And now be it known to the lord the king, that (the) Jews, the which went up from you to us, coming into Jerusalem, a city of fleers-away or a city again-flown to, and a full evil city, they build up the ovens of it, and they (re)set the walls, and rear (or raise up) the temple. 
That if this city and walls were made up (again), or were full ended, they shall not suffer to yield tributes, but also they shall against-stand to kings. 
And for cause that that thing is done about the temple, to have it rightly we have deemed to not despise that same thing, 
but to make known to the lord the king, that if it shall be seen pleasing to the king, be it sought in the books of thy fathers; 
and thou shalt find in (the) remembrances written of them, and thou shalt know, that that city was again-flown (or rebellious), and kings and cities smiting together, 
and (the) Jews fleeing again (or rebelling), and making battles in it always; for the which cause this city was forsaken or is desert(ed). 
Now therefore we make known to the lord the king, that if this city were built up, and the walls of it were areared, there shall be no coming down to thee into Celosyria and Phenice. 
Then the king wrote again to Rathymus, that wrote those things that befell, and to Beeltethmus, and to Semellius, the scribe, and to others ordained sovereigns and dwelling in Syria, and in Phenice (or in Phoenicia), or to others ordained, and dwellers in Syria, and Phenice, he wrote to them these things that be set under. 
I have read the letter, that thou sentest to me. Therefore I commanded it to be sought; and it was found, that that city was always withstanding to kings, 
and (the) men again-fugitive, and making battles in it; and most strong kings have been lordshipping in Jerusalem, and asking tributes of Celosyria and Phenice (or Phoenicia). 
Now therefore I (have) command-(ed) to prevent those men to build up the city, and to look or to purvey, that anything be not made hereafter; but that they pass not into full much or go they not forth into more, 
since they be of malice, so that grievances be not brought there to kings. 
Then after these things were rehearsed (or read), that were written of (or from) Artaxerxes, the king, Rath-ymus, and Semellius, the scribe, and they that were with them ordained, enjoining, hieingly (or hastily) came into Jerusalem, with horsemen, and people, and with company; and they began to prevent (or to hinder) the builders. And they voided (or ceased)then from the building of the temple in Jerusalem, unto the second year of the realm of Darius, king of Persia. 
