APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 21.
And I saw (a) new heaven and (a) new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth went away, and the sea is not now (or and the sea was no more). 
And I, John, saw the holy city Jerusalem, new, coming down from heaven, made ready of God, as a wife adorned to her husband, (or made ready by God, like a wife adorned for her husband). 
And I heard a great voice from the throne, saying, (or And I heard a loud voice from the throne, saying), Lo! the tabernacle of God is with men, and he shall dwell with them; and they shall be his people, and he God with them shall be their God. 
And God shall wipe away each tear from the eyes of them; and death shall no more be, neither mourning, neither crying, neither sorrow, (all) shall be over (or all shall be ended); which first things went away. 
And he said, that sat in the throne, (or And he, who sat on the throne, said), Lo! I make all things new. And he said to me, Write thou, for these words be most faithful and true. 
And he said to me, It is done; I am alpha and omega, the beginning and the end. I shall give freely of the well of quick water to him that thirsteth. (And he said to me, It is done; I am Alpha and Omega, the Source and the Fulfillment. I shall give freely from the spring of living water to anyone who thirsteth.) 
He that shall overcome, shall wield these things, (or He who shall overcome, shall possess these things); and I shall be God to him, and he shall be (a) son to me. 
But to fearedful men, and unbelieveful, and cursed, and man-quellers, and fornicators, and to witches, and to worshippers of idols, and to all (the) liars, the part of them shall be in the pool burning with fire and brimstone, that is the second death. (But to cowards, and to the unbelieving, or the unfaithful, and to the cursed, and to murderers, and to fornicators, and to witches, and to worshippers of idols, and to all the liars, their portion, or their lot, shall be in the pool burning with fire and brimstone, that is the second death.) 
And one came of the seven angels, having vials full of the seven last vengeances or the seven last plagues. And he spake with me, and said, Come thou, and I shall show to thee the spousess, the wife of the lamb. (And one of the seven angels came, bearing seven basins, or seven bowls, full of the seven last plagues. And he spoke with me, and said, Come, and I shall show to thee the spousess, the wife of the Lamb.) 
And he took me up in (the) Spirit into a great hill and high (or And he took me up in the Spirit onto a great high hill); and he showed to me the holy city of Jerusalem, coming down from (the) heaven of God, 
having the clarity of God (or shining with the glory of God); and the light of it like to a precious stone, as the stone jasper, as crystal. 
And it had a wall great and high, having twelve gates, and in the gates of it twelve angels, and names written in, that be the names of the twelve lineages of the sons of Israel; (And it had a great high wall, with twelve gates, and at its gates were twelve angels, and the names written on those gates were the names of the twelve tribes of the Israelites;) 
from the east three gates, and from the north three gates, and from the south three gates, and from the west three gates. 
And the wall of the city had twelve foundaments, and in them, the twelve names of the twelve apostles, and of the lamb. (And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and written on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.) 
And he that spake with me, had a golden measure of a reed, that he should mete the city, and the gates of it, and the wall. (And he who spoke with me, had a gold measuring rod, so that he could measure the city, and its gates, and the wall.) 
And the city was set in square; and the length of it is so much, as much as is the breadth. And he meted the city with the reed, by furlongs twelve thousands, (or And he measured the city with the measuring rod, twelve thousands furlongs). And the height, and the length and the breadth of it, be even. 
And he meted the walls of it, of an hundred and forty and four cubits, by (the) measure(ment) of man, that is, of the angel. (And he measured its walls, a hundred and forty-four cubits, according to human measurement, which the angel used.) 
And the building of the wall thereof was of the stone jasper. And the city itself was clean gold, like to clean glass, (or And the city itself was made of pure gold, like clear or shining glass). 
And the foundaments of the wall of the city were adorned with all precious stone(s), (or And the foundations of the city wall were adorned with every precious stone). The first foundament, jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald; 
the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolyte; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprasus; the eleventh, jacinth (or hyacinth); the twelfth, amethyst. 
And the twelve gates be twelve margarites, by each; and each gate was of each margarite. And the streets of the city were clean gold, as of glass full shining. (And the twelve gates were made out of twelve pearls; and each gate was made out of one pearl. And the city streets were made of pure gold, like shining glass.) 
And I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God almighty and the lamb, is the temple of it. (And I did not see any Temple in it, for the Lord God Almighty, and the Lamb, be its Temple.) 
And the city hath no need of the sun, neither of(the) moon, that they shine in it; for the clarity of God shall lighten it or shall light it; and the lamb is the lantern of it. (And the city hath no need of the sun, nor of the moon, that they shine in it; for the glory of God shall light it, or shall illumine it; and the Lamb is its lantern.) 
And folks shall walk in the light of it (or And the nations and the peoples shall walk in its light); and the kings of the earth shall bring their glory and honour into it. 
And the gates of it shall not be closed by day; and night shall not be there. 
And they shall bring the glory and (the) honour of folks into it. (And they shall bring the glory and the wealth of the nations and the peoples into it.) 
Neither any man or anything defouled, and doing abomination and leasing, shall enter into it; no but they that be written in the book of life of the lamb. (And nothing defiled, and no one doing abomination and telling lies, shall enter into it; only thosewhose names be written in the Lamb’s Book of Life.) 
