MARK.
Chapter 13.
And when he went out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, Master, (or Teacher), behold, what manner stones, and what manner buildings. 
And Jesus answered, and said to him, Seest thou all these great buildings? there shall not be left a stone on a stone, which shall not be destroyed. 
And when he sat in the mount of Olives against the temple (or And when he sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the Temple), Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him by themselves, 
Say thou to us, when these things shall be done, and what token or what sign shall be, when all these things shall begin to be ended. 
And Jesus answered, and began to say to them, Look ye or See ye, that no man deceive you; 
for many shall come in my name, saying, That I am (he); and they shall deceive many. 
And when ye hear battles and opinions of battles, dread ye not (or fear not); for it behooveth these things to be done, but not yet anon (or at once)is the end, or for it behooveth that these things be done, but the end is not yet. 
For folk shall rise on folk, and realm on realm, and earth-movings and hunger shall be by places; these things shall be(but the) beginnings of (the) sorrows. 
But see ye yourselves, for they shall take you in (to) councils, and ye shall be beaten in synagogues; and ye shall stand before kings and doomsmen (or judges) for me, in witnessing to them (or to give a testimony to them). 
And it behooveth, that the gospel be first preached among all folk. (But it behooveth, that the Gospel or the Good News, first be preached to all the nations and all the peoples.) 
And when they take you, and lead you forth, do not ye before-think what ye shall speak, but speak ye that thing that shall be given to you in that hour; for ye be not the speakers or soothly ye be not speaking, but the Holy Ghost (or the Holy Spirit). 
For the brother shall betake the brother into death or Forsooth a brother shall betray a brother into death, and the father the son, and sons shall rise together against fathers and mothers, and punish them by death. 
And ye shall be in hate to all men for my name; but he that lasteth into the end, shall be safe. +And ye shall be in hatred to all men for my name; but he that shall sustain into the end, shall be safe.(And ye shall be hated by everyone because of my name; but he who lasteth unto the end, shall be saved.) 
But when ye shall see the abomination of discomfort, standing where it oweth not (or standing where it ought not to be); he that readeth (this), understand (it); then they that be in Judea, flee to the mountains. 
And he that is above in the roof (or And he who is above on the roof), come not down into the house, neither enter he, to take anything (out) of his house; 
and he that shall be in the field, turn not again behind to take his cloth. (and he who is in the field, do not return to get his cloak.) 
But woe to them that be with child, and nourishing or nursing in those days. 
Therefore pray ye, that those things, or that your fleeing, (or that your flying), be not done in winter. 
But those days of tribulation shall be such, (in) which manner were not from the beginning of creature(s), (or in which manner were never so since the beginning of Creation), which God hath made, till now, neither shall be. 
And but the Lord had abridged those days, all flesh, or (all) mankind, had not be safe, (or And if the Lord had not shortened those days, no one could be saved); but for the chosen which he chose, the Lord hath made short the days. 
And then if any man say to you, Lo! here is Christ, (or Behold! here is the Messiah), lo! there, believe ye not. 
For false Christs and false prophets shall rise, and shall give tokens or signs and wonders, to deceive, if it may be done, yea, them that be chosen, or yea, the chosen. (For false messiahs and false prophets shall arise, and shall make miracles and wonders, to deceive, yes, God’s chosen, if it can be done.) 
Therefore take ye keep, (or And so be on guard, or take heed); lo! I have before-said to you all things. 
But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun shall be made dark, and the moon shall not give her light, 
and the stars of heaven shall fall down, and the virtues that be in (the) heavens shall be moved. (and the stars of the heavens shall fall down, and the powers that be in the heavens shall be shaken.) 
And then they shall see man’s Son coming in the clouds of (the) heaven(s), with great virtue (or with great power) and glory. 
And then he shall send his angels, and shall gather his chosen from the four winds, from the highest thing of earth till to the highest thing of heaven or from the lowest thing of earth unto the highest thing of heaven. 
But of the fig tree learn ye the parable. When now his branch is tender, and (its) leaves be sprung out, ye know that summer is nigh. 
So when ye see these things be done, know ye, that it is nigh in the doors, (or that it is near, right at the door). 
Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), that this generation shall not pass away, till all these things be done. 
Heaven and earth shall pass (away), but my words shall not pass (away). 
But of that day or hour no man knoweth, neither (the) angels in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father. 
See ye, wake ye, and pray ye, (or Look, be on watch, or stay awake, and pray); for ye know not, when the time is. 
For as a man that is gone far in pilgrimage, left his house, and gave to his servants power of every work, and commanded to the porter, that he should wake. (For it is like a man who left his house, and went far away on a journey, and who gave his servants authority to do their work, and commanded to the porter, that he should be on watch or stay awake.) 
Therefore wake ye, (or And so be on watch, or stay awake), for ye know not, when the lord of the house cometh, in the eventide, or at midnight, or at cock’s crowing, or in the morning; 
lest when he come suddenly, he find you sleeping. 
Forsooth that that I say to you, I say to all, Wake ye, (or Be on watch, or Stay awake). 
