ROMANS.
Chapter 14.
But take ye a sick man in belief, not in deemings of thoughts, or not in deceptions, or disputations, of thoughts. (Accept a man frail or weak in the faith, without judging or arguing about his thoughts and beliefs.) 
For another man believeth, that he may eat all things; but he that is sick, or unsteadfast, eat worts. (For one man believeth, that he can eat anything and everything; but he who is frail or weak, eateth only vegetables and herbs.) 
He that eateth, despise not him that eateth not; and he that eateth not, deem not him that eateth (or judge not him who eateth). For God hath taken him (un)to him(self), or For why God hath taken him, (or Because God hath accepted him). 
Who art thou, that deemest another’s servant? (or Who art thou, who judgest another’s servant?) To his lord he standeth, or falleth from him, or To his lord he standeth, or falleth down. But he shall stand; for the Lord is mighty to make him perfect, or to ordain him, or make (him) steadfast. 
For why one deemeth a day betwixt a day, another deemeth each day. Each man increase in his wit (or Each man increase in his understanding, or in his thinking). 
He that understandeth the day, understandeth to the Lord, or He that savoureth the day, savoureth to the Lord. And he that eateth, eateth to the Lord, for he doeth thankings to God (or for he giveth thanks to God). And he that eateth not, eateth not to the Lord, and doeth thankings to God. 
For no man of us liveth (un)to himself, and no man dieth (un)to himself. 
For whether we live, we live to the Lord; and whether we die, we die to the Lord. Therefore whether we live or die, we be of the Lord or we be (the) Lord’s. 
For why for this thing Christ was dead, and rose again, that he be (the) Lord both of quick and of dead men or of quick and of dead. (Because the Messiah died, and rose again for this, so that he be the Lord both of the living and of the dead.) 
But what deemest thou thy brother? or why despisest thou thy brother? for all we shall stand before the throne of Christ. (But why judgest thy brother? or why despisest thy brother? for all of us shall stand before the throne of the Messiah.) 
For it is written, I live, saith the Lord, for to me each knee shall be bowed, and each tongue shall acknowledge to God. 
Therefore each of us shall yield reason to God for himself. (And so each of us shall have to answer to God for himself, or give an account of himself.) 
Therefore no more deem we (or judge) each other; but more deem ye this thing, that ye put not hurting, or (any) cause of stumbling, to a brother. 
I know and trust in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is (made) unclean by him, no but to him that deemeth anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean. 
And if thy brother be made sorry, or heavy, in (his) conscience for meat, now thou walkest not after charity. Do not thou through thy meat lose him, for whom Christ died. (And if thy brother be grieved in his conscience over food, now thou walkest not with love. Do not because of thy food, or by thy eating, destroy him for whom the Messiah died.) 
Therefore be not your good thing blasphemed or despised. 
For why the realm of God is not meat and drink, but rightwiseness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. (Because the Kingdom of God is not food and drink, but righteousness and joy in the Holy Spirit.) 
And he that in this thing serveth Christ, pleaseth God, and is proved to men. (And he who doeth this serveth the Messiah, pleaseth God, and is approved by men.) 
Therefore (pur)sue we those things that be of peace, and keep we together those things that be of edification. (And so follow those things that be about peace, and hold we together those things that be for our edification.) 
Do not thou for meat lose the work of God. For all things be clean, but it is evil to the man that eateth by offending. (Do not because of food, or by thy eating, destroy the work of God. For all things be clean, but it becometh evil to the man who, by his eating, causeth someone else to stumble.) 
It is good to not eat flesh, and to not drink wine, neither in what thing thy brother offendeth, or is caused to stumble, or is made sick, or unsteadfast, (or is made frail, or weak). 
Thou hast faith with thyself, have thou (it) before God. Blessed is he that deemeth not himself in that thing that he (ap)proveth or Blessed is he that deemeth not, or condemneth not, himself in that thing that he proveth. 
For he that deemeth, is condemned or is damned, if he eateth; for it, his eating, is not of faith (or is not based on faith). And all thing that is not of faith, is sin. 
