PHILIPPIANS.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, my brethren most dearworthy and most desired, my joy and my crown, so stand ye in the Lord, most dear brethren. 
I pray Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, to understand the same thing in the Lord. 
Also I pray and thee, germane fellow, help thou those women that travailed with me in the gospel, (or help those women who laboured with me in the Gospel or the Good News), with Clement and other mine helpers, whose names be in the book of life. 
Joy ye in the Lord (for)evermore; again I say, joy ye. (Always have joy in the Lord; again I say, have joy!) 
Be your patience or your temperance known to all men; the Lord is nigh (or the Lord is near). 
Be ye nothing busy, but in all prayer and beseeching, with doing of thankings, (or with the giving of thanks, or with thanksgiving), be your askings known at God. 
And the peace of God, that passeth all wit, keep your hearts and understandings in Christ Jesus. (And the peace of God, which passeth all reasoning or all understanding, keep your hearts and understandings in the Messiah Jesus.) 
From henceforth, brethren, whatever things be sooth (or whatever things be true), whatever things chaste (or pure), whatever things just, whatever things holy, whatever things able to be loved, or amiable, or lovable, whatever things of good fame, if any virtue, if any praising of discipline, think ye (on) these things, 
that also ye have learned, and taken, and heard, and seen in me. Do ye these things, and (the) God of peace shall be with you. 
But I joyed greatly in the Lord, that sometime afterward ye flowered again to feel for me, as also ye feeled (before). But ye were occupied, 
I say not as for need, for I have learned to be sufficient in which things I am. 
And I know also how to be lowed, or how to be bowed, or meeked, I know also how to have plenty or how to abound, (And I know how to be humbled, and I know how to abound). Everywhere and in all things I am taught to be full-filled, and to hunger, and to abound, and to suffer mis-ease (or need). 
I may all things in him that comforteth me. (I can do all things through him who strengtheneth me.) 
Nevertheless ye have done well, communing to my tribulation. 
For ye, Philippians, know also, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I went forth from Macedonia, no church communed with me in reason, of thing given and taken, (or no other church shared things given and received with me), but ye alone. 
Which sent to Thessalonica once and twice also into use to me. (Ye who sent sustenance to Thessalonica not once but twice for my use.) 
Not for I seek (a) gift, but I require, or (I) seek again, fruit abounding in your reason. 
For I have all things, and abound; I am full-filled or replete with those things taken of Epaphroditus (or with those things received from Epaphroditus), which ye sent into the odour of sweetness, a covenable (or a suitable) sacrifice, pleasing to God. 
And my God ful fill all your desire(s), by his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. (And my God shall fulfill all your desires, or shall fill all of your desires full, with his riches in glory through the Messiah Jesus.) 
But to God and our Father be glory into worlds of worlds. Amen. (But to God and our Father be glory forever and ever. Amen.) 
Greet ye well every holy man in Christ Jesus. Those brethren that be with me, greet you well. (Give hearty greetings to every saint, or to all of God’s people, in the Messiah Jesus. Those brothers who be with me, send you hearty greetings.) 
All holy men greet you well, most soothly they that be of the emperor’s or of Caesar’s house. (All the saints, or all of God’s people, send hearty greetings to you, most particularly those who be in the household of the Emperor.) 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. 
