EZEKIEL.
Chapter 30.
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Son of man, prophesy thou, and say, The Lord God saith these things, Yell ye, Woe! woe! to the day, 
for the day is nigh; and the day of the Lord nigheth, the day of a cloud. The time of heathen men shall be (or The time of the heathen shall be); 
and a sword shall come into Egypt, and dread shall be in Ethiopia, when wounded men shall fall down in Egypt, and the multitude thereof shall be taken away, and the foundaments thereof shall be destroyed. (and a sword shall come into Egypt, and fear shall be in Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall down in Egypt, and the multitude there shall be taken away, and its foundations shall be destroyed.) 
Ethiopia, and Libya, and Lydians, and all the residue common people, and Chub, and the sons of the land of bond of peace, shall fall down by sword with them. (Ethiopia, and Libya, and the Lydians, and all the rest of the common people, and Chub, and the sons of the land of the covenant, shall fall down by the sword with them.) 
The Lord God saith these things, And they that underset Egypt shall fall down, and the pride of the lordship thereof shall be destroyed (or and the pride of its power shall be destroyed); from the tower of Syene they shall fall by sword therein, saith the Lord God of hosts. 
And they shall be destroyed in the midst of lands made desolate, and the cities thereof shall be in the midst of cities forsaken (or and its cities shall be in the midst of deserted cities). 
And they shall know, that I am the Lord God, when I shall give fire in Egypt (or when I shall set Egypt on fire), and all the helpers thereof shall be all-broken. 
In that day messengers shall go out from my face in ships with three orders of oars, to all-break, or destroy, the trust of Ethiopia; and dread shall be in them (as) in the day of Egypt, for without doubt it shall come. (On that day messengers shall go out from before me in ships with three orders of oars, to all-break, or to destroy, the confidence of Ethiopia; and fear shall be upon them like in the day of Egypt, for without doubt it shall come.) 
The Lord God saith these things, And I shall make to cease the multitude of Egypt in the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. (The Lord God saith these things, And I shall make an end of the multitude of Egypt by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon.) 
He and his people with him, the strongest men of heathen men, shall be brought, to lose the land; and they shall draw out their swords on Egypt, and they shall fill the land with slain men. (He and his people with him, the strongest men of the heathen, shall be brought to destroy the land; and they shall draw out their swords against Egypt, and they shall fill the land with the slain.) 
And I shall make dry the bottoms of floods, and I shall give the land in(to) the hand of the worst men; and I shall destroy the land, and the fullness thereof in the hand of aliens; I the Lord spake. (And I shall dry up the bottoms of the rivers, or the riverbeds, and I shall give the land into the hands, or into the power, of the worst people; and I shall destroy the land, and its fullness, by the hands of foreigners, or of strangers; I the Lord spoke.) 
The Lord God saith these things, And I shall lose simulacra, and I shall make idols to cease from Memphis, and a duke of the land of Egypt shall no more be. And I shall give dread in the land of Egypt, (The Lord God saith these things, And I shall destroy the idols, and I shall make the idols to cease to exist in Noph, and a prince, or a leader, shall no more be in the land of Egypt. And I shall bring fear into the land of Egypt,) 
and I shall lose, or destroy, the land of Pathros. And I shall give fire in Tanis, and I shall make my dooms in Alexandria. (and I shall destroy the land of Pathros. And I shall set fire to Zoan, and I shall bring in my judgements upon No.) 
And I shall shed out mine indignation on Pelusium, the strength of Egypt; and I shall slay the multitude of Alexandria, (And I shall pour out my indignation upon Sin, the strength of Egypt; and I shall kill the multitude of No,) 
and I shall give fire in Egypt. Pelusium, as a woman travailing of child, shall have sorrow, and Alexandria shall be destroyed, and in Memphis shall be each day’s anguishes. (and I shall set fire to Egypt. Sin, like a woman labouring with child, shall have sorrow, and No shall be destroyed, and in Nophshall be each day’s anguishes.) 
The young men of Heliopolis and of Bubastis shall fall down by sword, and those cities shall be led captives (or and these cities shall go into captivity). 
And in Tahpanhes the day shall wax black, when I shall all-break there the sceptres of Egypt (or when I shall all-break there the yoke of Egypt), and the pride of the power thereof shall fail therein. A cloud shall cover it; forsooth the daughters thereof shall be led into captivity, 
and I shall make dooms in Egypt (or and I shall bring in my judgements upon Egypt); and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
And it was done in the eleventh year, in the first month, in the seventh day of the month (or on the seventh day of the month), the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh, king of Egypt; and lo! it is not wrapped about, that health should be restored thereto, that it should be bound with clothes (or that it should be bound with a dressing), and wound (about) with linen clothes, and that he might hold (a) sword (again), when he had received strength. 
Therefore the Lord God saith these things, Lo! I to Pharaoh, king of Egypt; I shall make less his strong arm but broken, and I shall cast down the sword from his hand. (And so the Lord God saith these things, Behold! I am against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt; I shall make less, (or I shall break), both his arms, his strong arm, and his broken arm, and I shall throw down the sword from his hand.) 
And I shall scatter Egypt among heathen men, and I shall winnow them in lands. (And I shall scatter the Egyptians among the heathen, and I shall winnow them into many lands.) 
And I shall strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and I shall give my sword in the hand of him; and I shall break the arms of Pharaoh, and men slain before his face shall wail by wailings. (And I shall strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and I shall put my sword into his hand; but I shall break the arms of Pharaoh, and he shall wail with the wailings of a gravely wounded man before him.) 
And I shall strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down. And they shall know, that I am the Lord, when I shall give my sword in(to) the hand of the king of Babylon; and he shall stretch forth it on the land of Egypt. (Yea, I shall strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, but the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down. And they shall know, that I am the Lord, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon; and he shall stretch it forth upon the land of Egypt.) 
And I shall scatter Egypt into nations, and I shall winnow them into lands, (or And I shall scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and I shall winnow them into other lands); and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
