COLOSSIANS.
Chapter 2.
But I will (or But I desire) that ye know, what busyness I have for you, and for them that be at Laodicea, and whichever saw not my face in (the) flesh, 
that their hearts be comforted, and they be taught in charity, (or so that their hearts be strengthened, and they be taught in love), into all the riches of the plenty of understanding, into the knowing of the mystery of God, the Father of Jesus Christ, 
in whom all the treasures of wisdom and of science, or of cunning, (or of knowing), be hid. (in whom all the treasures of wisdom and of knowledge be hidden.) 
For this thing I say, that no man deceive you in height of words. (And I say this to you, so that no one shall deceive you with high-sounding arguments.) 
For though I be absent in body, but by spirit I am with you, joying and seeing your order and the firmness of your belief that is in Christ (or rejoicing and seeing your order and the firmness of your belief that is in the Messiah). 
Therefore as ye have taken Jesus Christ our Lord, walk ye in him, (And so as ye have received Jesus Christ our Lord, now walk in him, or now live in him,) 
and be ye rooted and builded above in him, (that is, in Christ, or the Messiah), and confirmed in the belief, as ye have learned, abounding in him in (the) doing of thankings, (or and abounding in thanksgiving, or in the giving of thanks, to him). 
See ye that no man deceive you by philosophy and vain, (or empty and futile), fallacy, after the tradition(s) of men, after the elements of the world, and not after Christ. 
For in him dwelleth body-like all the fullness of the Godhead. 
And ye be ful filled in him, that is (the) head of all principat and power. 
In whom also ye be circumcised in (a) circumcision not made with hand(s), in (the) despoiling or in (the) nakedness of the body of flesh, but in (the) circumcision of, (or made by), Christ; 
and ye be buried together with him in baptism, in whom also ye have risen again by (the) faith of the working of God, that raised him from death or that raised him from (the) dead. 
And when ye were dead in your guilts, and in the prepuce of your flesh, he quickened together you with him; forgiving to you all guilts or all (your) trespasses, (And when ye were dead in your trespasses, and in the uncircumcision of your flesh, or with your flesh uncircumcised, he enlivened you with Him; forgiving all of your trespasses,) 
doing away that writing of (the) decree that was against us, that was contrary to us; and he took away that from the middle, pitching it (or fixing it) on the cross; 
and he spoiled principats and powers, and led out trustily, openly overcoming them in himself. 
Therefore no man judge you in meat, or in drink, or in part of feast day, or of new moon, or of sabbaths, (And so let no man judge you about food, or drink, or taking part in Feast Days, or about new moons, or about the Sabbath,) 
which be (but a) shadow of things to coming or which be (but a) shadow of things to come; for the body is of Christ. 
(Let) No man deceive you, willing to teach in meekness (or with humility), and the religion of angels, those things which he hath not seen, walking vainly, swollen or in-blown with (the) wit of his flesh (or with a worldly mind), 
and not holding the head, of which all the body, by bands and joinings together under-ministered and made, waxeth into the increasing of God. 
For if ye be dead with Christ from the elements of the world, what yet as men living to the world deem ye? (For if ye be with the Messiah, and so dead to the elements of the world, then why do ye judge like men still living in the world?) 
That ye touch not, neither taste, neither treat with hands those things, 
which all be into death by that use, after the commandments and teachings of men; 
which have a reason of wisdom in vain religion or in superstition and meekness, and not to spare the body, not in any honour to the fulfilling of the flesh. 
