2ND JOHN.
Chapter 1.
The elder man, to the chosen lady, and to her children, which I love in truth (or whom I truly love); and not I alone, but also all men that know (the) truth; 
for the truth that dwelleth in you, and with you shall be into without end. (for the sake of the truth which dwelleth within you, and shall be with you forever.) 
Grace be with you, mercy, and (the) peace of God the Father, and of Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and charity (or in truth and love). 
I joyed full much, for I found (some) of thy sons going in truth, as we received commandment of the Father. (I greatly joyed, when I found some of thy sons going in the truth, as we were commanded by the Father.) 
And now I pray thee, lady, not as writing a new commandment to thee, but that that we had from the beginning, that we love each other. (And now dear lady, I beseech thee, not as writing a new command to thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another.) 
And this is charity, that we walk after his commandments. For this is the commandment, that as ye heard at the beginning, walk ye in him. (And this is love, that we walk, or that we live, according to his commands. For this is the command, which ye have heard from the beginning, walk or live in him.) 
For many deceivers went out into the world, which acknowledge not that Jesus Christ hath come in (the) flesh; this is a deceiver and (the) antichrist. (For many deceivers went out into the world, who do not acknowledge that Jesus Christ hath come in the flesh; yea, such a person is a deceiver and the Anti-Messiah, or the False Messiah, or the Enemy of the Messiah.) 
See ye yourselves, lest ye lose the things that ye have wrought, that ye receive full meed; (Watch yourselves, or Be on guard, lest ye lose the things that ye have worked for, so that ye receive your full reward;) 
witting that each man that goeth before or witting that each man that goeth away, and dwelleth not in the teaching of Christ, hath not God. He that dwelleth in the teaching of Christ, hath both the Son and the Father. (knowing that everyone who goeth away, and remaineth not in the teaching of the Messiah, hath not God. He who remaineth in the teaching of the Messiah, hath both the Son and the Father.) 
If any man cometh to you, and bringeth not this teaching, do not ye receive him into your house, neither say to him, Hail. 
For he that saith to him, Hail, communeth with his evil works. Lo! I before-said to you, that ye be not confounded in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ (or Behold! I have told you this ahead of time, so that ye be not ashamed on the Day of our Lord Jesus Christ). 
I have more things to write to you, and I would not by parchment and ink; for I hope that I shall come to you, and speak mouth to mouth, that our joy be full. (I have more things to write to you, but I will not write them with paper and ink; because I hope that I shall come to you, and then we can speak face to face, or in person, so that our joy will be complete.) 
The sons of thy chosen sister greet thee well. The grace of God be with thee. Amen. (The sons of thy chosen sister send hearty greetings to thee. The grace of God be with thee. Amen.) 
