1ST TIMOTHY.
Chapter 6.
Whatever servants be under yoke, deem they their lords worthy (of) all honour, lest the name of the Lord and the doctrine be blasphemed +or lest the name of their Lord God and his doctrine be blasphemed. 
And they that have faithful, or christian, lords, despise them not, for they be brethren; but more serve they them, for they be faithful and loved, which be partners of beneficence, or (of) good-doing. Teach thou these things, and admonish thou these things. 
If any man teach otherwise, and accordeth not to the wholesome words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to that teaching that is by piety, 
he is proud, and knoweth nothing, but languisheth about questions and strivings or fightings of words, of the which be brought forth envies, strives, blasphemies, evil suspicions, 
fightings of men, that be corrupt in soul or in reason, and that be deprived from (the) truth, that deem winning to be piety, (or who believe their gain to be proof of their piety, or who believe their increase to be a reward for their piety). 
But a great winning is piety, with sufficience. (But piety, in and of itself, is a great gain or a great reward, yea, with abundance.) 
For we brought in nothing into this world, and no doubt, that we may not bear anything away. +Forsooth we brought nothing into this world, (and) no doubt, that we may not bear away anything.(For we brought nothing into this world, and there is no doubt, that we cannot take anything out of it or away from it.) 
But we having foods, and with what things we shall be covered or and with what things we shall be clothed, be we satisfied with these things. 
For they that will be made rich, fall into temptation, and into the snare of the devil, and into many unprofitable desires and noxious, which drench men (down) into death and perdition. (For those who will be made rich, fall into testing, and into the Devil’s snare, and into many unprofitable and harmful desires, which drown men down into death and destruction.) 
For the root of all evils is covetousness, which some men coveting erred from the faith, and besetted them(selves) with many sorrows. 
But, thou, man of God, flee these things; but follow thou rightwiseness, piety, faith, charity (or love), patience, (and) mildness (or and meekness and humility). 
Strive thou a good strife of faith, catch everlasting life, into which thou art called, and hast acknowledged a good acknowledging before many witnesses. 
I command to thee before God, that quickeneth all things, and before Christ Jesus, that yielded a witnessing under Pilate of Pontii, a good confession, (I command thee before God, who enliveneth all things, or who giveth life to everything, and before the Messiah Jesus, who gave his testimony to Pontius Pilate, yea, a worthy testimony,) 
that thou keep the commandment without wem, without reproof, into the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ; (that thou obey, or follow thy orders, without spot or blemish, and without reproof, unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ;) 
whom the blessed and alone almighty King of kings and Lord of lords shall show in his times. 
Which alone hath undeadliness or immortality, and dwelleth in light, to which light no man may come; whom no man saw, neither may see (or nor can see); to whom glory, and honour, and empire be without end, or to whom (be) glory, and honour, and empire into without end. Amen. 
Command thou to the rich men of this world, that they understand not highly or proudly, neither that they hope in (the) uncertainty of riches, but in the living God, that giveth to us all things plenteously to use; 
to do well, to be made rich in good works, lightly to give (or easy, or quickly, to give), to commune, 
to treasure to themselves a good foundament, into (the) time to coming or into (the) time to come, that they catch everlasting life. (to treasure unto themselves a good foundation, into the time to come, so that they can grasp eternal life.) 
Thou Timothy, keep the thing or the deposit betaken to thee, eschewing cursed novelties of voices, and opinions of (the) false name of cunning (or of knowing); (O Timothy, guard the deposit delivered unto thee, shunning the cursed novelties, or chattering, of voices, and opinions in the name of false knowledge;) 
which some men promising, about the faith fell down or the which some men promising, fell down about the faith. The grace of God be with thee. Amen. 
