ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 30.
He that loveth his son, giveth busily beatings to him, (so) that he be glad in his last thing, and (so) that the son touch not the doors of neighbours. 
He that teacheth his son, shall be praised in (or for) him; and shall have glory in him in the midst of (his) menials. 
He that teacheth his son, sendeth the enemy into envy; and in the midst of friends he shall have glory in that son. 
(And though) The father of him is dead, and (yet) he is as not dead; for he hath left after him a son like him. 
He saw in his life, and was glad in (or over) him; and in his death he was not sorry or sorrowed not, neither was ashamed before (his) enemies. 
For he left a defender of the house against (his) enemies; and (one) yielding grace to (his) friends. 
For defending the souls (or the lives) of his sons, he shall bind together his wounds; and his entrails or the bowels of him shall be disturbed (or troubled) on each voice. 
An horse untamed, either unchastised, shall escape hard, and a son unchastised shall escape heady (or become headstrong). 
Flatter thou the son, and he shall make thee dreading; play thou with him, and he shall make thee sorry or sorrow(ful). 
Laugh thou not with him of (or about) his follies, lest thou have sorrow together, and at the last thy teeth shall be astonished. 
Give thou not power to him in youth, and despise thou not his thoughts. 
Bow thou (down) his neck in youth, and beat thou his sides, while he is a young child; lest peradventure he wax hard or inwardly harden, and believe not to thee, and he shall be (a) sorrow of (or to thy) soul to thee. 
Teach thy son, and work in him; lest thou offend into the filth of him (or lest his filthy behaviour offend thee). 
Better is a poor man whole, and strong in mights or strengths, than a rich man feeble, and beaten with malice. 
The health of (the) soul (or of the body)is in the holiness of rightfulness or rightwiseness, and it is better than any gold and silver; and a strong body is better than full much chattel or than money without measure. 
No chattel is above the chattel of (the) health of (the) body; and no liking is above the joy of (the) heart. There is not money over the money of the health of (the) body; and there is not liking over the joy of (the) heart. 
Better is death than (a) bitter life, and everlasting rest is better than sickness dwelling continually or enduring. 
Goods hid in a closed mouth be as settings forth of meats set about a sepulchre. 
What shall sacrifice profit to an idol? for why it shall not eat, neither shall smell. So he that is driven away from the Lord, 
and beareth the meeds (or rewards) of wickedness, or of shrewdness, (or of depravity), seeing with eyes, and wailing inwardly, as a gelding embracing a virgin or a maiden, and sighing. 
Give thou not sorrow to thy soul, that is, unreasonable sorrow, that annoyeth (or harmeth) both body and soul, and torment not thyself in (or with) thy (own) counsel, as they do that despair through sorrow, and then slay themselves. 
Mirth of heart, this is the life of man, and is(a) treasure of holiness without failing; and full out joying of a man is long life or long living. 
Have thou mercy on thy soul, and please thou God; and hold together and gather together thine heart in the holiness of him, and put far away sorrow from thee. For why sorrow hath slain many men; and none health is therein or there is not profit in it. 
Envy and wrathfulness shall make (for) less days or Envy and wrath shall lessen days; and thoughts shall bring eldness before the time. 
A shining or bright heart is good in meats, (or for meals or digestion); for why meats thereof be made diligently. 
