PSALMS.
Chapter 19.
To victory, the psalm of David. Heavens tell out the glory of God; and the firmament telleth the works of his hands. (For the choirmaster, a song by David. The heavens tell out the glory of God; and the firmament telleth out the works of his hands.) 
The day telleth out to the day a word; and the night showeth knowing to the night. (The day telleth out a word to the next day; the night showeth knowledge to the next night.) 
No languages be, neither words; of which the voices of them be not heard. (There be no languages, or words, where their voices be not heard.) 
The sound of them went out into all (the) earth; and the words of them into the ends of the world. In the sun he hath set his tabernacle (or In the sky he hath pitched a tent for the sun); 
and he as a spouse coming forth of his chamber. He fully joyed, as a giant, to run his way; (and the sun is like a spouse coming forth from his bed-chamber. It rejoiced, like a strong man, who runneth his race;) 
his going out was from the highest heaven. And his going again was to the highest thereof; and none there is that hideth himself from his heat. (it went out from the heights of the heavens, and that is also to where it returned. And there is nothing that can hide from its heat or And nothing is hidden from its heat.) 
The law of the Lord is without wem, and converteth souls; the witnessing of the Lord is faithful, and giveth wisdom to little, either meek, children. (The Law of the Lord is without blemish, or without fault, and converteth souls; the teaching of the Lord is faithful, and giveth wisdom to the simple.) 
The rightfulnesses of the Lord be rightful, gladdening hearts, (or The precepts of the Lord be right, gladdening hearts); the commandment of the Lord is clear, enlightening eyes. 
The holy dread of the Lord dwelleth into the world of world; the dooms of the Lord be true, justified into themselves. (The fear of the Lord is holy, or pure, or Reverence for the Lord is holy, or pure, and it remaineth forever and ever; the judgements of the Lord be true, and justified unto themselves.) 
Desirable more than gold, and a stone much precious; and sweeter than honey and honeycomb. (They be more desirable than gold, or very precious stones; and sweeter than honey from a honeycomb.) 
For why thy servant keepeth those; much yielding is in those to be kept./Forsooth thy servant keepeth those; much yielding, or reward, is in those dooms to be kept. (For they instruct thy servant; and in obeying those judgements, there is much reward.) 
Who understandeth trespasses? make thou me clean from my privy sins; (Who understandeth his own trespasses? Lord, make thou me clean from my secret sins;) 
and of alien sins spare thy servant. If those have not lordship of me, then I shall be undefouled of alien sins, or without wem; and I shall be cleansed of the most sin. (and spare thy servant from willful sins. For if they have no rule, or lordship, over me, then I shall be undefiled, or without blemish, or without fault; and I shall be cleansed from all great sin.) 
And the speeches of my mouth shall be such, that they please; and the thinking of mine heart is evermore in thy sight. Lord, mine helper; and mine again-buyer. (May the words out of my mouth be such, that they please thee; and may the thinking of my heart be acceptable before thee forevermore, O Lord; my helper, and my redeemer.) 
