Numbers.
Chapter 24.
And Bileam saw that it was appointed before the Lord to bless Israel; and he went not as at those former times to inquire by divinations, but set his face towards the calf that the sons of Israel had made in the wilderness. 
And Bileam lifted up his eyes, and beheld Israel dwelling by his tribes; and the Spirit of prophecy rested upon him from before the Lord. 
And he took up his parable, and said: Bileam, the son of Beor, hath said, The man who saw the Beautiful hath said, 
he hath said who heard the Word from before God, Who saw the vision of the Almighty, prostrate when he saw: 
How goodly is thy land, O Jakob, And the house of thy habitation, O Israel! 
As rivers flowing onward; as the watered garden by Euphrates, As aromatics planted by the Lord; as cedars planted by the waters. 
The king anointed from his sons shall increase, And have dominion over many nations; His king shall be mightier than Agag, and his kingdom be exalted. 
God, who brought them from Mizraim, is mighty and high, and by Him Shall Israel use the wealth of the nations their foes, Enjoy the spoils of their kings, and inherit their lands. 
He reposed in his strength, as the lion and the lioness, And no kingdom may commove him. They who bless thee shall be blessed, And they who curse thee be accursed. 
And the anger of Balak was roused against Bileam, and he smote his hands together. And Balak said to Bileam, I called thee to curse my enemies, and, behold, blessing hast thou blessed them these three times! 
And now go to thy place. I said, Honouring I would honour thee; but, behold, the Lord hath kept thee back from honour. 
But Bileam said to Balak, Did I not also tell the messengers whom thou sentest to me, saying, 
If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I have no power to transgress the decree of the Word of the Lord, to do good or evil of my own will; whatsoever the Lord shall sat that will I speak? 
And now, behold, I go unto my people. Come, I will give thee counsel what thou shouldst do; and will show thee what this people will do unto thy people at the end of the days. 
And he took up his parable, and said: Bileam, the son of Beor, speaketh, The man who saw the Beautiful speaketh, 
He speaks who heard the Word from before God, And who knoweth knowledge from the Most High, Who saw the vision of the Almighty, prostrate when he saw. 
I see him, but not now; I behold him, but not nigh. When a king shall arise out of Jakob, And the Meshiha be anointed from Israel, He will slay the princes of Moab, and reign over all the children of men; 
And Edom shall be an inheritance, And Seir a possession of his adversaries; But Israel shall prosper in riches. 
One will descend from the house of Jakob, Who will destroy him that escapeth from the city of the peoples. 
And he looked on the Amalkaah, and took up his parable, and said: Amalek was the beginning of the wars of Israel, But in his end he shall perish forever. 
And he beheld the Shalmaah, and took up his parable, and said: Strong is the house of thy dwelling, And in a strong fortress thou hast set thy abode; 
But yet Shalmaah shall be destroyed, For Athuria will make thee captive. 
And he took up his parable, and said: Woe to the wicked who may live when God doeth this! 
And ships will come from the Kittaee, And afflict Athur, and subdue beyond the Phrat; But they also shall perish forever. 
And Bileam arose, and went and returned to his place; and Balak also went upon his way. 
