Genesis.
Chapter 27.
And it was, when Izhak was old, and his eyes were darkened from seeing, that he called Esau, his eldest son, and said to him, My son. And he said to him, Behold, I am. 
And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day that I shall die: 
And now take thy weapons, thy knife and thy bow, and go out into the field, and hunt me venison, 
And make me food I such as I like, and bring it to me, and I will eat, and my soul shall bless thee before I die. 
And Revekah listened as Izhak was speaking with his son Esau. And Esau went into the field to hunt venison to bring it. 
And Revekah spake to Jakob, her son, saying, Behold, I have heard thy father speaking with Esau thy brother, saying, 
Bring me now venison, and make me food, and I will eat and bless thee in the presence of the Lord before I die. 
And now, my son, obey me in what I command thee. 
Go now to the flock, and take thee from thence two good goat-kids, and make them into food for thy father such as he loves, 
And carry in to thy father, that he may eat, and bless thee before he die. 
And Jakob said to Revekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man. 
It may be that my father will feel me, and I shall be in his eyes as a deceiver, and shall bring upon me curses, and not blessings. 
And his mother said to him, Unto me it hath been said in prophecy, that there shall be no curses upon thee, my son; only obey me, and go, and take for me. 
And he went, and took, and brought to his mother, and his mother made food such as his father loved. 
And Revekah took the vestments of Esau her elder son, (which were) clean, and were with her in the house, and clothed Jakob her younger son. 
And with the skins of the kids she covered his hands, and upon the smoothness of his neck. 
And she gave the food and the bread that she had made into the hand of Jakob her son. 
And he went in to his father, and said, Father! And he said, Behold me. Who art thou, my son? 
And Jakob said to his father, I am Esau, thy firstborn: I have done as thou hast told me. Arise now, turn thyself, and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me. 
And Izhak said to his son, What is this, thou hast so quickly found, my son? And he said, Because the Lord thy God prepared it before me. 
And Izhak said to Jakob, Draw near now, and I will feel thee, my son, whether thou be my son Esau or not. 
And Jakob drew near to Izhak his father, and he felt him, and said, The voice is the voice of Jakob; but the hands are the hands of Esau. 
And he could not be known, because his hands were hairy, like the hands of Esau his brother; and he blessed him. 
And he said, But art thou my son Esau? And he said, I am! 
And he said, Bring before me, and I will eat of my sons venison, that my soul may bless thee. And he offered to him, and he did eat; and he brought him wine, and he drank. 
And Izhak his father said to him, Approach now, and kiss me, my son. 
And he approached, and kissed him, and he smelled the fragrance of his vestments, and blessed him, and said, Lo, the smell of my son is as the fragrance of a field which the Lord hath blessed. 
And the Lord shall give thee of the dew of heaven, and of the goodness of the earth, and abundance of corn and of wine. 
Let the peoples serve thee, and kingdoms be subservient to thee: be thou chief of thy brethren, and let the sons of thy mother worship thee: cursed shall they be who curse thee, and blessed shall they be who bless thee! 
And it was when Izhak had completed to bless Jakob, and Jakob had, going, only gone out from Izhak his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting. 
And he had also made food, and he brought it to his father, and said to his father, Arise, my father, and eat of thy son’s venison, that thy soul may bless me. 
And Izhak his father said to him, Who art thou? And he said, I am thy son, thy firstborn, Esau. 
And Izhak was wonderstruck with exceeding great wonder, and said, Who was he who prepared venison, and brought it to me, and I have eaten of all before thou camest, and I have blessed him? And blessed shall he be. 
When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried a cry, great and bitter exceedingly. And he said to his father, Bless me, also, me, father! 
And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath received thy blessing. 
And he said, Rightly is his name called Jakob, he hath dealt subtilly with me these two times; my birthright he took, and, behold, now he hath received my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not left me a blessing? 
And Izhak answered, and said to Esau, Behold, I have set him a chief over thee, and all his brethren I have given to him for servants, and with corn and wine have I sustained him: and for thee now what can I do, my son? 
And Esau said to his father, Hast thou but one blessing, father? Bless me, me also, my father. And Esau lifted up his voice and wept. 
And Izhak his father answered and said to him, Behold, thy habitation shall be of the best of the earth, and of the dew of heaven from above. 
And by thy sword shalt thou live, and thy brother obey; and it will be that when his sons shall have transgressed the words of the law, thou wilt cast his yoke from off thy neck. 
And Esau kept enmity towards Jakob for the blessing wherewith his father had blessed him. And Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for father draw near and I wilt kill Jakob my brother. 
And the words of Esau her eldest son were shown to Revekah, and she sent and called Jakob her younger son, and said to him, Behold, Esau thy brother plotteth against thee to kill thee. 
And now, my son, receive from me, and arise and go to Laban my brother at Haran, 
And dwell with him a few days, until thy brother’s wrath turn away, 
Until the anger of thy brother turn from thee, and what thou hast done to him be forgotten; and I will send and bring thee thence. Why should I be bereaved of both of you in one day? 
And Revekah said to Izhak, I am grieved in my life at the sight of the daughters of Hittah. If Jakob take a wife of the daughters of Hittah, like these of the daughters of the land, what to me is life? 
