Numbers.
Chapter 5.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Command the sons of Israel to send away from the camp everyone who is leprous, and everyone who hath an issue, and everyone who is defiled with the pollution of the life of man: 
From male to female you, shall send them away, that they defile not their camps; for My Shekinah dwelleth among you. 
And the sons of Israel did so; as the Lord spake with Mosheh, so did the sons of Israel. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
When a man or a woman hath committed any of the sins of mankind to prevaricate prevarication before the Lord, and that man hath become guilty; 
They shall make confession of the sin which they have committed, and restore the principal of (the property of) the trespass, and add a fifth part thereto, and give to him against whom the sin was committed; 
But if the man (hath deceased, or) hath no kinsman unto whom the trespass should be returned, let the trespass be restored before the Lord unto the priest, besides the ram of atonement which shall be offered to atone for him. 
And all separated things of all the consecrations of the sons of Israel which are offered by the priest are his. 
And the consecrated tenths of every man shall be his, and whatsoever a man giveth unto the priest shall be his. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them: If a man’s wife go astray and prevaricate against him prevarication, 
And a man lie with her, and it be hidden from her husband’s eyes, and she be contaminated, and there be no witness against her, and she be not convicted (or apprehended); 
But the spirit of jealousy come upon him, and he be jealous of his wife that she hath been defiled; or the spirit of jealousy come upon him, and he become jealous of his wife, though she be not defiled; 
Then shall the man bring his wife to the priest, and bring her offering for her, a tenth part of three seins of barley flour; he shall pour no oil thereon, nor put frankincense upon it, because it is a mincha of jealousy, a mincha of remembrance, bringing sins to remembrance. 
And the priest shall bring her near, and make her stand before the Lord. 
And the priest shall take water from the laver in an earthen vessel. And the priest shall take from the dust which is on the floor of the tabernacle, and put it into the water. 
And the priest shall make the woman stand before the Lord, and shall uncover the woman’s head, and put the mincha of remembrance, the mincha of jealousy, upon her hands; and in the priest’s hand shall be the bitter waters of cursing. 
And the priest shall adjure her, and say to the woman: If no man hath lain with thee, and if thou bast not gone astray to uncleanness (with another) instead of thy husband, be thou unhurt (zakaah, innocent, clean) from these bitter waters of cursing. 
But if thou hast gone astray (to another) instead of thy husband, and art defiled; and another man hath lain with thee, besides thy husband, 
the priest shall adjure the woman by the oath of the curse; and the priest shall say to the woman: The Lord set thee for a curse and an execration in the midst of thy people, by the Lord making thy thigh to be corrupt, and thy bowels to swell. 
And these waters of cursing shall enter thy inside, to make thy bowels to swell, and thy thigh to become corrupt. And the woman shall say, Amen, Amen! 
And the priest shall write these maledictions upon a book, and shall wash them out with the bitter waters. 
And he shall make the woman to drink the bitter waters of cursing; and the waters of the curse shall enter into her unto bitterness. 
And the priest shall take from the woman’s hand the mincha of jealousy; and wave the mincha before the Lord, and offer it upon the altar. 
And the priest shall take with a full hand from the mincha the memorial of it, and burn it upon the altar; and afterward the woman shall drink the water. 
And when he hath made her drink the water, it shall be that if she hath been defiled and hath wrought perverseness with her husband, the waters of the execration will enter into her with bitterness, and her bowels will swell, and her thigh become corrupt: and the woman shall be for an execration among her people. 
But if the woman hath not been defiled, but is innocent, they shall enter harmlessly, and she shall conceive with conception. 
This is the law of jealousy, when a woman hath gone astray from her husband, 
or when the spirit of jealousy passeth upon a man, and he become jealous of his wife. He shall make the wife stand before the Lord; and the priest shall do for him (according to) all this law. 
And the man shall be innocent from guilt, but the woman shall bear her sin. 
