Genesis.
Chapter 36.
And these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom. 
Esau took his wives from the daughters of Kenaan: Ada, daughter of Helon the Hittite, and Ahalivama, the daughter of Ana, the daughter of Sibeon the Hivite, 
and Basemath, the daughter of Ishmael, the sister of Nebaioth. 
And Ada bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Basemath bare Reuel; 
and Ahalivama bare Jehus, and Jaalam, and Korach. These are the sons of Esau who were born to him in the land of Kenaan. 
And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the souls of his house, and his flocks, and all his cattle, and all his substance which he had gotten in the land of Kenaan, and went into another land from before Jakob his brother; 
Because their substance was too great for them to dwell together, and the land of their habitation could not sustain them with regard to their cattle. 
And Esau dwelt in the mountain of Seir. Esau is Edom. 
And these are the generations of Esau, the father of the Edomai, in the mountain of Seir, 
these are the names of the sons of Esau: Eliphaz, the son of Ada, the wife of Esau; Reuel, son of Basemath, the wife of Esau. 
And the sons of Eliphaz were Theman, Omar, Zepho, and Gaetam, and Kenaz. 
And Thimna was the concubine of Eliphaz bar Esau, and she bare to Eliphaz Amalek. These are the sons of Ada, the wife of Esau. 
And these are the sons of Reuel, Nahath and Zara, Shamma and Meza. These are the sons of Basemath, the wife of Esau. 
And these are the sons of Ahalivama, the daughter of Ana, the daughter of Zebeon, the wife of Esau; and she bare unto Esau Jehus, and Jaalam, and Korach. 
These are the chiefs of the sons of Esau. Of the sons of Eliphaz the firstborn of Esau, Rabba Theman, Rabba Omar, Rabba Zepho, Rabba Kenaz, 
rabba Korach, Rabba Gaetam, Rabba Amalek These are the chiefs of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Ada. 
And these are the sons of Reuel bar Esau: Rabba Nachath, Rabba Zarach, Rabba Shamma, Rabba Meza. These are the chiefs of Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Basemath, the wife of Esau. 
And these are the sons of Ahalivama, the wife of Esau: Rabba Jehus, Rabba Jaalam, Rabba Korach. These are the chiefs of Ahalivama, the daughter of Ana the wife of Esau. 
These are the sons of Esau, and these are their chieftains. He is Edom. 
These are the sons of Seir, the Chorites, the inhabitants of the land, Lothan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Ana, 
and Dishon, and Etser, and Dishan. These are the chieftains of the Choraai, the sons of Seir, in the land of Edom. 
And the sons of Loti were Hori and Hemaim, and the sister of Lotan was Timna. 
And these are the Beni Shobal, Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. 
And these are the sons of Zebeon, Aya and Ana; he is Ana who found the giants in the desert while he tended the asses of his father Zibeon. 
And these are the children of Ana, Dishon, and Ahalivania the daughter of Ana. 
And these are the sons of Dishan: Hemdan, and Eshban, and Jethran, and Keran. 
These are the sons of Etser: Bilan, and Zaavan, and Akan. 
These are the sons of Dishan: Huts and Aran. 
These are the chieftains of the Choraai: Rabba Lotan, Rabba Shobal, Rabba Zebeon, Rabba Ana, 
Rabba Dishon, Rabba Etser, Rabba Dishan. These are the chieftains of the Choraai, according to their principalities in the land of Seir. 
And these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before that kings reigned among the sons of Israel: 
Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom, and the name of his city was Dinhava. 
And Bela died, and instead of him reigned Yobab the son of Zerah of Botsra. 
And Yobab died, and instead of him reigned Husham, of the land of the south. 
And Husham, died, and instead of him reigned Hadad, the son of Bedad, who slew the Medianae in the fields of Moab; and the name of his city was Avith. 
And Hadad died, and in his stead reigned Simlah of Masereka. 
And Simlah died, and in his stead reigned Shaul of Rechovoth, which is on the Ph’rat. 
And Shaul died, and in his stead reigned Baal-Chanan bar Akbor. 
And Baal-Chanan bar Akbor died, and in his stead reigned Hadar, and the name of his city was, Pau; and the name of his wife Mehetavel, the daughter of Matered, the daughter of a changer of gold. 
And these are the names of the chieftains of Esau, after their kindreds, by their places, with their names: Rabba Timna, Rabba Alvah, Rabba Jetheth, 
Rabba Ahalivama, Rabba Elah, Rabba Phinon, 
Rabba Kenez, Rabba Teman, Rabba Mabzar, 
Rabba Magdiel, Rabba Iram: these are the chieftains of Edom, after their habitations in the land of their possessions. He is Esau, the father of the Edomites. 
