Deuteronomy.
Chapter 24.
When a man shall have taken a wife, and become her husband, and she hath not found favour in his eyes, because he hath found something wrong in her, then he may write for her a bill of divorcement, and give it into her hand, and send her from his house. 
And when she hath departed from his house, she may go and become (the wife) of another man. 
And if the latter husband dislike her, and write her a bill of divorce, and put it into her hand, and dismiss her from his house; or if the latter husband who had taken her to be his wife shall die, 
the first husband who had put her away hath no power to return to take her to be his wife, after that she hath been defiled; for that is an abomination before the Lord; and thou shalt not cause the land to sin, which the Lord thy God giveth thee to inherit. 
When a man hath taken a new wife, he shall not go forth with the army, nor shall any transaction be (laid) upon him; he shall be free in his house for a year, that he may cheer (or, may enjoy himself with) his wife whom he hath taken. 
No man shall take as a pledge the millstones either lower or upper; for by them is made the subsistence of every living man. 
If a man be found stealing a person of his brethren of the sons of Israel, to make merchandise of him, or to sell him, that man shall be put to death, and thou shalt put away the evil doer from among thee. 
Take heed, in the plague of leprosy, to observe and perform entirely all that the priests, the Levites, shall teach you; as I have commanded them, you shall observe to do. 
Remember what the Lord the God did unto Miriam, in the way when you came out of Mizraim. 
When thou hast lent the use of anything to thy neighbour, thou shalt not enter into his house to take his pledge. 
Thou shalt stand without, and the man to whom thou hast lent shall bring out the pledge to thee. 
And if the man be poor, thou shalt not sleep with his pledge; 
Thou shalt return him his pledge at sunset, that he may sleep in his garment, and may bless thee, and it shall be righteousness before the Lord thy God. 
Thou shalt not oppress a hireling who is needy and poor, (whether he be) of thy brethren, or of thy sojourners who are in thy land or thy cities. 
In his day thou shalt give him his hire; thou shalt not let the sun go down upon it, for he is needy, and to it he delivereth his life (soul); that he cry not against thee before the Lord, and it be sin in thee. 
The fathers shall not die for the children, nor shall children die for the fathers; a man shall die for his own sin. 
Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of the stranger or the orphan, nor take the garment of the widow for a pledge; 
But thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Mizraim, and that the Lord thy God redeemed thee from thence; therefore I command thee to do this thing. 
When thou art harvesting thy harvest in thy field, and hast forgotten a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not return to take it; let it be for the stranger, the orphan, and the widow, that the Lord thy God may bless thee in all the work of thy hands. 
When thou beatest thy olive (trees), thou shalt not make search for what thou bast left behind thee; let it be for the stranger, the orphan, and the widow. 
When thou art gathering thy vineyard, thou shalt not glean the grapes that are left behind thee; let them be for the stranger, the orphan, and the widow; 
And remember that thou wast a bondman in the land of Mizraim; therefore have I commanded thee to do this thing. 
