Numbers.
Chapter 26.
that the Lord spake to Mosheh and to Elazar bar Aharon the priest, saying: 
Take the account of all the congregation of the sons of Israel, from a son of twenty years and upwards by the house of their fathers, everyone that goeth out with the host in Israel. 
And Mosheh and Elazar the priest spake with them, and directed to number them in the plains of Moab, by the Jordan (over against) Jericho, saying: 
From a son of twenty years and upward, as the Lord commanded Mosheh, and the sons of Israel who went forth from the land of Mizraim. 
Reuben, the first-born of Israel: the sons of Reuben, Hanok, the family of Hanok; Phallu, and the family of Phallu; 
of Hezron, the family of Hezron; of Karmi, the family of Karmi. 
These are the families of Reuben, and they who were numbered of them were forty-three thousand seven hundred and thirty. 
And of the sons of Phallu, Eliab; 
And the sons of Eliab, Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram: these are Dathan and Abiram who called the congregation that gathered against Mosheh and Aharon in the congregation of Korach, in their gathering against the Lord, 
when the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them with Korach, and the congregation died, being devoured by the fire, two hundred and fifty men; and they became a sign; 
but the sons of Korach died not. 
The sons of Shimeon by their families: of Nemuel, the family of Nemuel; of Jamin, the family of Jamin; 
of Zerach, the family of Zerach; of Shaul, the family of Shaul. 
These are the families of Shemeon, twenty-two thousand two hundred. 
The sons of Gad after their families; of Zephon, the family of Zephon; of Haggi, the family of Haggi; of Shumi, the family of Shumi; of Aggi, the family of Aggi; 
Of Ozni, the family of Ozni; of Heri, the family of Heri; 
of Arod, the family of the Arodi of Areli, the family of Areli. 
These are the families of the Beni Gad, the number of whom was forty thousand five hundred. 
Of the sons of Jehudah, Her and Onan: but Her and Onan died in the land of Kenaan; 
Of the sons of Jehudah after their families: of Shelah, the family of Shelah; of Pherez, the family of Pherez; of Zerach, the family of Zerach. 
Of the sons of Pherez: of Hezron, the family of Hezron; of Hamul, the family of Hamul. 
These are the families of Jehudah; the number of them seventy-six thousand five hundred. 
The sons of Issakar by their families: Tola, the family of Tola; of Phua, the family of the Phuni; 
Of Jasub, the family of Jasub; of Shimron, the family of Shimron. 
These are the families of Issakar; their number sixty-four thousand three hundred. 
The sons of Zebulon by their families: of Sared, the family of Sared; of Elon, the family of Elon; of Jahleel, the family of Jahleel. 
These are the families of Zebulon, by their number sixty thousand five hundred. 
The sons of Joseph by their families, Menasheh and Ephraim, 
The sons of Menasheh: of Makir, the family of Makir; and Makir begat Gilead; of Gilead, the family of Gilead. 
These are the children of Gilead: of Jezar, the family of Jezar; of Helek, the family of Helek; 
And of Asriel, the family of Asrieli; and of Shekem, the family of Shekem; 
And of Shemida, the family of Shemida; and of Hepher, the family of Hepher. 
And Zelophechad bar Hepher had no sons, but daughters; and the names of the daughters of Zelophechad were Mahali, and Nohah, Hegelah, Milchah, and Thirzah. 
These are the families of Menasheh, and their number fifty-two thousand seven hundred. 
These are the sons of Ephraim by their families: of Shuthelah, the family of Shuthelah; of Bekir, the family of Bekir; of Tachan, the family of Tachan. 
And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Heran, the family of Heran. 
These are the families of the Beni-Ephraim, the number of whom was thirty-two thousand five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph by their families. 
The sons of Benjamin by their families: of Bela, the family of Bela; of Ashbal, the family of Ashbal; of Ahiram, the family of Ahiram; 
Of Shefuphim, the family of Shefuphim; of Hupham, the family of Hupham. 
And the sons of Bela, Arede and Naaman; the family of the Aredi; and of Naaman, the family of Naaman. 
These are the sons of Benjamin after their families, and their number forty-five thousand six hundred. 
These are the children of Dan, after their families: of Shuham, the families of Shuham. These are the families of Dan after their families, 
And the number of the families of Shuham sixty-four thousand four hundred. 
The sons of Asher, after their families: of Jimna, the families of Jimna; of Jeshvi, the families of Jeshvi; of Beriah, the family of Beriah. 
Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of Heber; of Malkiel, the family of Malkiel. 
But the name of the daughter of Asher was Sarach. 
These are the families of the Beni Asher, by their number fifty-three thousand four hundred. 
The sons of Naphtali, after their families: of Jahziel, the families of Jahziel; of Gunni, the families of Gunni; 
of Jezer, the family of Jezer; of Shelem, the family of Shelem. 
These are the families of Naphtali by their families, and their number forty-five thousand four hundred. 
These were the numbered of the sons of Israel, six hundred and one thousand seven hundred and thirty. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Unto these thou shalt divide the land for a possession, according to the number of their names. 
To the many thou shalt make large their possession, and to the few thou shalt make their possession small; to each according to his number shalt thou give his inheritance. 
Nevertheless the land shall be divided by lot, according to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit. 
By the lot shall their inheritance be divided among the many and the few. 
And these are the sons of Levi, after their families: of Gershon, the families of Gershon; of Kehath, the family of Kehath; of Merari, the families of Merari. 
These are the families of Levi: the family of Libni, the family of Hebron, the family of Machli, the family off Mushi, the family of Korach And Kehath begat Amram. 
And the name of Amram’s wife was Jokebed, a daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi, in Mizraim; and she bare unto Amram Aharon, and Mosheh, and Miriam their sister. 
And unto Aharon were born Nadab and Abihu, Elazar and Ithamar. 
But Nadab and Abihu died in their offering strange fire before the Lord. 
And the numbered of them were twenty-three thousand of all the males from a month old and upwards: for they were not numbered among the children of Israel, because no possession was given to them among the children of Israel. 
These (are they whom) Mosheh and Elazar the priest numbered of the sons of Israel, in the plains of Moab, by Jordan, (over against) Jericho. 
But among these there was not a man of them whom Mosheh and Aharon the priest numbered when they counted the children of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai. 
For the Lord had said to them that dying they should die in the wilderness; and not a man of them remained, except Kaleb bar Jephuneh and Jehoshua bar Nun. 
