Genesis.
Chapter 34.
And Dinah, the daughter of Leah, whom she bare to Jakob, went forth to see the daughters of the land. 
And Shekem bar Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her, and took her, and lay with her, and humbled her. 
And his soul took pleasure in Dinah the daughter of Jakob, and he loved the damsel, and spake to the heart of the damsel. 
And Shekem spake to Hamor his father, saying, Take to me this damsel for a wife. 
And Jakob heard that he had polluted Dinah his daughter. And his sons were with his flocks in the field; and Jakob was silent until they were come. 
And Hamor the father of Shekem came forth to Jakob to speak with him. 
And the sons of Jakob came up from the field when they heard. And the men were indignant and very angry, because shame had been wrought in Israel by his lying with the daughter of Jacob; for so it should not have been done. 
Hamor spake with them, saying, The soul of Shekem my son hath pleasure in your daughter; give her now to him to wife. 
And marry with us, and take our daughters to you; 
And the land shall be before you; inhabit and do business in it, and possess it. 
And Shekem said to her father and to her brethren, Let me find favour in your eyes, and what you shall tell me I will give. 
Multiply upon me dowry and present, and I will give as you may tell me; but give me the damsel to wife. 
And the sons of Jakob answered Shekem and Hamor his father, and with subtlety they spake, because he had defiled Dinah their sister. 
And they said to them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to a man uncircumcised; for that (would be) a reproach to us. 
Nevertheless in this we will agree with you, if you will be as we are, by circumcising every male among you, 
and we will give our daughters to you, and your daughters will we take to us, and will dwell with you and be one people. 
But if you will not consent to us to be circumcised, we will take our daughter and go. 
And their words were pleasing in the eyes of Hamor, and in the eyes of Shekem the son of Hamor. 
And the young man delayed not to do the thing, because he delighted in the daughter of Jakob, and he was more honourable than all his father’s house. 
And Hamor came, and Shekem his son, to the gate of the city, and spake to the men of the city, saying, 
These men are friendly with us, and they may dwell in the land, and do business in it, and the land, behold, it is wide (on both) hands before them; their daughters we will take to us for wives, and our daughters we will give to them. 
Only in this will the men agree with us to dwell with us, to be one people, in every male of us being circumcised, as they are circumcised. 
Their flocks, and their possessions, and all their cattle, will they not be ours? Only let us consent to them, and they will dwell with us. 
And everyone who went out of the gate of his city received of Hamor and of Shekem his son, and they were circumcised, every male, everyone who went out of the gate of his city. 
And it was on the third day, when their pains were strong upon them, that the two sons of Jakob, Shemeon and Levi, the brothers of Dinah, took each man his sword, and came upon the city, which dwelt in security, and slew every male, 
and Hamor and Shekem his son they killed with the edge of the sword. And they brought Dinah out of the house of Shekem, and went. 
And the sons of Jakob came up to the spoil of the slain, and sacked the town, because they had defiled their sister. 
Their sheep, and their oxen, and their asses, and all that was in the city and the field, they took. 
And all their substance, and all their little ones, and their wives, they captured and spoiled, and all which was in the house. 
And Jakob said to Shemeon and Levi, You have troubled me, in putting strife between me and the inhabitants of the land, the Kenaanites and the Perrezites, and I a people (few) for number; and they will gather against me, and smite me, and I shall perish, I and the men of my house. 
And they said, As with an outcast should he deal with our sister? 
