Exodus.
Chapter 17.
And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from the desert of Sin, according to their itinerations by the Word of the Lord; and they encamped in Rephidim: but the people had no water to drink; 
and the people were contentious with Mosheh, and said, Give us water that we may drink. And Mosheh said, Why do you contend with me? Why do you tempt before the Lord? 
But the people thirsted there for water, and the people were turbulent against Mosheh, and said, Why is this, to have brought us from Mizraim, to kill me and my children and my cattle with thirst? 
And Mosheh prayed before the Lord, saying, What shall I do with this people? Yet a little, and they will stone me! 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Pass over before the people, and take with thee of the elders of Israel, and thy rod wherewith thou didst smite the river take in thy hand, and go. 
Behold, I will stand before thee there, upon the rock in Horeb, and thou shalt smite the rock, and water shall come out of it, that the people may drink. And Mosheh did so in the eyes of the elders of Israel. 
And he called the name of the place, Temptation and Strife, because of the striving of the sons of Israel, and because they tempted before the Lord, saying, Is the Majesty of the Lord among us, or not? 
And Amaleq came, and warred battle with Israel in Rephidim. 
And Mosheh said to Jehoshua, Choose for us men, and go forth and do battle with Amaleq. Tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill, and the rod with which the miracles are wrought from before the Lord shall be in my hand. 
And Jehoshua did as Mosheh had said to him, and he did battle with Amaleq. And Mosheh, Aharon, and Hur ascended to the top of the hill. 
And it was that when Mosheh lifted up his hand, the house of Israel prevailed; and when he let down his hand, the house of Amaleq prevailed. 
But the hands of Mosheh became heavy, and they took a stone and placed it under him, and he sat upon it, and Aharon and Hur held up his hands, here one, and there one; and thus were his hands stretched out in prayer until the going of the sun. 
And Jehoshua shattered Amaleq and his people with the edge of the sword. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh: Write this memorial in the Book, and set it before Jehoshua, That blotting, I will blot out the memorial of Amaleq from under the heavens. 
And Mosheh builded an altar, and ministered upon it before the Lord who had wrought (such) miracles for him. 
And he said, With an oath hath this been declared from before the Fearful One whose Shekinah is upon His glorious throne; that war shall be waged with the house of Amaleq, to destroy it from the generations of the world. 
