Numbers.
Chapter 6.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the children of Israel, and say to them: When a man or a woman would be separated by a vow of the Nazira, to be devoted before the Lord; 
He shall abstain from wine, (whether) new or old; vinegar of new wine or vinegar of old wine he may not drink; neither of anything expressed from grapes may he drink; nor of grapes, either fresh or dried, may he eat. 
All the days of his nazirate he may not eat of aught that is produced by the vine (wine tree), from its kernels to its expressed juice. 
All the days of his nazir vow a razor shall not pass upon his head; until the days be fulfilled which he should devote before the Lord, he shall be consecrate; he shall let the hair of his head grow. 
All the days of his vow before the Lord; he shall come near no dead person: 
For his father or his mother, for his brother or his sister, should they die, he shall not make himself unclean; because the consecration of Eloha is upon his head: 
All the days of his nazirhood shall he be consecrate before the Lord. 
And if anyone with him die suddenly (to him) unawares, and he defile the head of his vow, let him shave his head on the day of his purification, on the seventh day let him shave it: 
And on the eighth day let him bring two turtle doves or two young pigeons unto the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of ordinance. 
And let the priest make one a sin offering, and one a burnt offering, to atone for him; for that he had sinned by the dead; and let him consecrate his head (anew) on that day. 
And he shall devote before the Lord the days of his nazirhood, and bring a lamb of the year for a trespass offering: but the former days have been in vain, because he hath defiled his vow. 
And this is the law of the Nazirite on the day that the days of his vow are fulfilled. He shall be brought to the door of the tabernacle of ordinance; 
And shall present his oblation before the Lord, a lamb of the year, one unblemished, for a burnt offering, and one ewe lamb of the year, unblemished, for a sin offering; and one ram unblemished for a consecrated oblation; 
and a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of flour mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, their minchas and their libations. 
And the priest shall present them before the Lord; and make the sin offering and the burnt offering, 
And the ram he shall make a consecrated oblation before the Lord with the basket of unleavened cakes; and the priest shall make the mincha, and the libation therewith. 
And let the Nazirite, at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, shave his consecrated head; and take the hair of his consecrated head and lay it upon the fire which is under the cauldron, for the peace offerings. 
And the priest shall take the boiled shoulder of the ram, and one of the unleavened cakes from the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and put (them) upon the hands of the Nazirite after the shaving of his consecration. 
And the priest shall uplift them, an elevation before the Lord. It shall be dedicated to the priest, with the breast of the elevation, and the shoulder of the separation; and after that the Nazirite may drink wine. 
This is the law of the Nazirite, who hath vowed his oblation before the Lord, for his consecration, besides those which may come to his hand; according to the vow which he hath vowed, so shall he do according to the law of his consecration. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with Aharon and with his sons, saying: Thus shall you bless the children of Israel, and shall say unto them: 
The Lord bless thee and keep thee. 
The Lord make His Shekinah to shine upon thee, and be merciful to thee. 
The Lord turn away His displeasure from thee, and bestow upon thee peace. 
And they shall bestow the benediction of My Name upon the sons of Israel, and I will bless them. 
