Deuteronomy.
Chapter 22.
Thou shalt not see thy brother’s ox or his lamb going astray, and turn thyself aside from them; thou shalt surely bring them back to thy brother. 
And if thy brother be not near to thee, or if thou know him not, then thou shalt bring it into thy house, and it shall be with thee until thou make inquiry for thy brother, and then thou shalt restore it to him. 
In like manner shalt thou do with his ass, and with his garment, and with any lost thing of thy brother’s which thou mayest have found, it is not lawful for thee to conceal it. 
Thou shalt not see thy brother’s ass or his ox fallen in the way, and turn thyself away from them, thou shalt surely lift them up for him. 
The adorning of a man shall not be upon a woman, nor shall the apparel of a man be like the apparel of a woman; for everyone who doeth these things is abominable before the Lord thy God. 
If thou find the nest of a bird before thee on the way, in any tree, or upon the ground, with young ones, or eggs, and the mother lying over the young ones, or upon the eggs, thou shalt not take the mother with the offspring. 
Thou shalt send away the mother, and take the young ones with thee; that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest prolong thy days. 
When thou buildest a new house, then thou shalt make a parapet to thy roof, that thou mayest not bring the guilt of the blood of the slain upon thy house, by the falling of anyone who may fall there-from. 
Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with mixed (seeds), lest what cometh from the seed which thou sowest, and the produce of thy vineyard, be unclean. 
Thou shalt not plough with an ox and an ass together. 
Thou shalt not dress with a contexture of woolen and of linen joined together. 
Thou shalt make thee fringes (or tassels) upon the four corners of thy garment with which thou coverest thyself. 
If a man take a wife, and go unto her, and dislike her, 
and lay an occasion of words about her, or bring out an evil name upon her, and say, I took this woman and came to her, and I have not found her to be a virgin: 
then shall the father and mother of the damsel bring forth the tokens of the damsel’s virginity before the elders of the city, at the gate of the judgment house of the place; 
And the father of the damsel shall say to the elders, I gave my daughter to this man to wife, and he hateth her; 
And, behold, he hath set an occasion of words, saying, I have not found the virginity of thy daughter; but these are the tokens of my daughter’s virginity. And he shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city. 
And the elders of the city shall take that man and scourge him, 
And fine him a hundred shekels of silver, and give to the father of the damsel, because he brought out an evil name upon a virgin of the house of Israel. And she shall be his wife, he hath no power to put her away all his days. 
But if this word be true, and the tokens of virginity are not found unto the damsel, 
then they shall bring out the damsel to the door of her father’s house, and the men of that city shall stone her with stones that she die; for she hath wrought shame in Israel in playing whoredom in her father’s house, and thou shalt put away the evil doer from among you. 
If a man be found lying with a woman, the wife of (another) man, they shall be both of them put to death, the man who lay with the woman, and the woman; and thou shalt put away the evil doer from Israel. 
If a man find in the city a damsel, a virgin, who is betrothed to a man, and lie with her, 
then shall you bring them both out to the gate of that city, and stone them with stones that they die; the damsel because she cried not out in the city, and the man because he humiliated his neighbour’s wife; and thou shalt put away the evil doer from among you. 
But if a man find the betrothed damsel in the field, and prevail against her, and lie with her, then only the man who lay with her shall be put to death; 
But unto the damsel thou shalt not do anything; there is not with the damsel guilt of the judgment of death; for as when a man riseth up against his neighbour and killeth him, even so is this matter; 
He found her in the field, the betrothed damsel cried, but there was none to deliver. 
If a man find a damsel, a virgin who is not betrothed, and lay hold of her and lie with her, and they be found, 
then the man who lay with her shall give to the damsel’s father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife; because he had humbled her, he shall not have power to send her away all his days. 
