Deuteronomy.
Chapter 3.
And we turned, and went up the way of Mathnan; and Og king of Mathnan came out to meet us, he and all his people, to give battle at Edrehi. 
And the Lord said to me, Fear him not; for I have delivered him into thy hand, with all his people and his land; and thou shalt do to him as thou hast done to Sihon king of the Amoraah, who dwelt at Heshbon. 
And the Lord our God delivered Og the king of Mathnan into our hand with all his people, and we smote him until not a remnant of him escaped. 
And we subdued all his cities at that time, there was not a city which we took not from them, sixty cities, all the region of the territory of the kingdom of Og in Mathnan. 
All those strong cities were fortified with gates and bars, beside unwalled towns very many. 
But we consumed them as we did Sihon king of Heshbon: we destroyed in all the cities the men, women, and children; 
But all the cattle and the spoil of the cities were a prey to us. 
And we took at that time from the hand of the two kings of the Amoraah, the country on this side of Jordana, from the river of Arnon unto the mountain of Hermon. 
The Zidonaee call Hermon Sirion, but the Amoraee call it the Mount of Snow: 
All the cities of the plain, all Gilead, and all Mathnan, unto Salka and Edrehi, cities of the kingdom of Og in Mathnan. 
For only Og king of Mathnan remained of the remnant of the giants. Behold, his bedstead was a bedstead of iron: is it not in Rabbath of the children of Ammon, nine cubits its length, and four cubits its breadth, in the cubit of the king? 
And their land (which) we took into possession at that time, from Aroer, upon the river Arnon, and half Mount Gilead, and the cities thereof, I have given to the tribe of Reuben, and to the tribe of Gad. 
And the rest of Gilead, and all Mathnan, the kingdom of Og, I have given to the half tribe of Menasheh; all the surrounding country, even all Mathnan, which was called the Land of the Giants. 
Jaer bar Menasheh took all the territory of Terakona, unto the border of Geshurah and Aphkiros, and called it after his name, Mathnan Kapharne-Jair, unto this day. 
And to Machir I have given Gilead. 
And to the tribe of Reuben, and of Gad, I have given from Gilead unto the river of Arnon (to) the middle of the river and its bound, unto the river Jubeka, which is the border of the children of Ammon. 
And the plain, and the Jordan, and the border thereof, from Genezar unto the Sea of the Plain, the Sea of Salt, under the declivity of the height, eastward. 
And I instructed you at that time, saying: The Lord your God hath given you this land to possess it; you shall pass over armed before your brethren the sons of Israel, all armed for the host. 
Only your wives, and little ones, and your cattle, for I know that you have much cattle, shall abide in your cities which I have given you, 
until the Lord hath given rest to your brethren as well as to you, and they also possess the land which the Lord your God hath given to them on the other side of Jordana: and you shall return every man to his inheritance which I have given you. 
And I charged Jehoshua at that time, saying: Thine eyes have seen all that the Lord your God hath done unto these two kings; so shall the Lord do to all the kingdoms to which thou art going over. 
Fear them not, for the Word of the Lord your God will fight for you. 
And I prayed before the Lord at that time, saying: 
O Lord God, Thou hast begun to show Thy servant Thy greatness and Thy mighty hand; for Thou art God, whose Shekinah is in the heavens above, and Thou rulest in the earth, and none can do according to Thy greatness or Thy might. 
Let me, I pray, go over and see the good land that is beyond Jordan, that goodly mountain, and the place of the sanctuary. 
But there was displeasure with the Lord against me on your account, and He heard me not; but said to me, It is enough for, thee; add not to speak again before Me of this thing: 
Go up to the summit of the height, and lift up thy eyes to the west, the north, the south, and the east, and see with thy eyes; for thou shalt not pass over this Jordan. 
But instruct Jehoshua, and fortify, and make him strong; for he shall go over before this people, and put them in possession of the land which thou wilt see. 
And we dwelt in the valley over against Beth Peor. 
