Genesis.
Chapter 29.
And Jakob lifted up his feet, and came to the land of the children of the East. 
And he looked, and saw a well in a field; and, behold, three flocks of sheep lying near it, because from that well they watered the flocks; and a great stone was upon the mouth of the well. 
And thither all the flocks were gathered together; and they withdrew the stone from the mouth of the well, and watered the flock, and returned the stone upon the mouth of the well unto its place. 
And Jakob said to them, My brethren, whence are you? And they said, We are from Haran. 
And Jakob said to them, Know you Laban bar Nachor? And they said, We know. 
And he said, Hath he peace? And they said, Peace; and, behold, Rahel his daughter cometh with the flock. 
And he said, Behold, the day is yet great, it is not time to gather the cattle; water the sheep, and go to the pasture. 
And they said, We cannot till all the flocks are gathered, and we remove the stone from the mouth of the well, and water the flock. 
While he spake with them, Rahel came, with the flock of her father; for she was a shepherdess. 
And it was, when Jakob saw Rahel the daughter of Laban, the brother of his mother, and the flock of Laban the brother of his mother, that Jakob went near, and withdrew the stone from the well’s mouth, and watered the flock of Laban, his mother’s brother. 
And Jakob kissed Rahel, and lifted up his voice and wept. 
And Jakob showed Rahel that he was the son of her father’s sister, and that he was the son of Revekah. And she ran and showed to her father. 
And it was when Laban heard the hearing of Jakob the son of his sister, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him into his house; and he narrated to Laban all these words. 
And Laban said to him, Thou art, however, my near (kinsman), and thou art my flesh. And he abode with him a month of days. 
And Laban said to Jakob, Because thou art my brother, shalt thou serve me for nothing? Tell me, what shall be thy wages? 
And Laban had two daughters, the name of the elder Leah, and the name of the younger Rahel. 
And the eyes of Leah were beautiful; but Rahel was admirable in form, and beautiful in aspect. 
And Jakob loved Rahel, and he said, I will serve thee seven years for Rahel thy younger daughter. 
And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee than give her to another man; reside with me. 
And Jakob served for Rahel seven years; and they were in his eyes as a few days, inasmuch as he loved her. 
And Jakob said to Laban, Give me my wife; for the days of my service are fulfilled, and I will go to her. 
And Laban assembled all the men of the place, and made a feast. 
And it was in the evening, that he took Leah his daughter, and introduced her to him, and he entered to her. 
And Laban gave her Zilpha his handmaid unto Leah his daughter, to attend on her. 
And it was in the morning, and, behold, she was Leah! And he said to Laban, What is this that thou hast done to me? Was it not for Rahel that I served thee? And why hast thou been false with me? 
And Laban said, It is not so done in our place, to give the younger before the elder. 
Fulfil this week, and I will give thee also that, for the service that thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years. 
And Jakob did so, and fulfilled the week of this; and he gave him Rahel his daughter to be his wife. 
And Laban gave to Rahel his daughter Bilhah her handmaid to wait upon her. 
And he went in also to Rahel, and he loved Rahel more than Leah. And he served yet with him seven other years. 
And the Lord saw that Leah was hated, and He gave her to conceive, but Rahel was barren. 
And Leah conceived and bare a son, and she called his name Reuben; for she said, Because my affliction was manifest before the Lord; for now will my husband love me. 
And she conceived again and bare a son, and she said, Because it was heard before the Lord that I had hatred, and He gave me this also; and she called his name Shemeon. 
And she conceived again and bare a son: and she said, This time will my husband adhere to me; for I have born him three sons: therefore she called his name Levi. 
And she conceived again and bare a son; and she said, This time will I give praise before the Lord: therefore she called his name Jehudah. And she ceased (stood) from bearing. 
