Deuteronomy.
Chapter 8.
Every mandate that I command thee this day, you shall observe to do, that you may live and multiply, and go in and possess the land which the Lord did covenant unto your fathers. 
And thou shalt remember all the way that the Lord thy God hath led thee these forty years in the wilderness, that He might humble thee, to prove thee, to know what was in thy heart, whether thou wouldst keep His commandments or not: 
And He humbled (or afflicted) thee, and let thee hunger, and fed thee with the manna which thou knewest not, nor did thy fathers know; that He might make thee to know, That not by bread only is man sustained, but by every forth-coming word from before the Lord shall man live. 
Thy raiment faded not away from thee, and thy shoes wore not out these forty years; 
And know thou with thy heart, that as a man instructeth his son, (so) the Lord thy God instructeth thee. 
Keep then the commandments of the Lord thy God, to walk in the ways which are right before Him, to fear Him. 
For the Lord thy God bringeth thee into the good land; a land streaming with brooks of water, with fountain springs, and depths (of water) gushing from valleys and hills; 
A land of wheat and barley, vines, figs, and pomegranates; a land of olives yielding oil, and which produceth honey; 
A land where, without poverty, thou mayest eat bread, and have want of nothing; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest cast brass: 
And thou shalt eat and be satisfied, and shalt bless the Lord thy God in the good land. 
Beware, lest thou forget the fear of the Lord thy God, in not keeping His commandments, His judgments, and His statutes, which I command thee this day. 
Lest, when thou hast eaten and art full, and bast built goodly houses and inhabited (them), 
And when thy oxen and sheep have multiplied to thee, and silver and gold have increased, and whatever thou hast is increased with thee, 
thy heart should be lifted up, and thou shouldest forget the fear of the Lord thy God, who brought thee up from the land of Mizraim, from the house of bondage; 
Who led thee through the great and terrible desert, the place of burning serpents and scorpions, the place of thirsting, where there is no water, who brought out water for thee from the hard rock; 
Who fed thee in the wilderness with manna which thy fathers knew not, that he might humble thee, and prove the, to do thee good in thy latter end. 
And (lest) thou say in thy heart, My power and the might of my hand have gathered to me these possessions: 
But remember the Lord thy God, for He it is who giveth thee power to acquire riches, that He may confirm his covenant which He sware to thy fathers, as at this day. 
But it will be that if thou forget the fear of the Lord thy God, and walk after the idols of the Gentiles to serve and worship them, I testify against you this day that perishing you will perish. 
As the nations which the Lord destroyeth from before you, so shall you perish, because you would not obey the Word of the Lord your God. 
