Exodus.
Chapter 27.
And thou shalt make THE ALTAR of sittin woods; five cubits the length and five cubits the breadth; square shall be the altar, and three cubits its height. 
And thou shalt make its horns upon its four corners; of the same shall be its horns, and overlay it with brass. 
And make its pots, to collect the ashes, and its fireshovels, and its basins, and its flesh-hooks, and its thuribles, all its vessels make thou of brass. 
And make for it a grate, a work of netting of brass, and make upon the network four rings of brass upon its four sides, 
And place it under the surrounding of the altar beneath, that the net may extend to the middle of the altar. 
And make thou staves for the altar, staves of sittin wood, and overlay them with brass; 
And he shall put the staves into the rings, and the staves shall be at the two sides of the altar to carry it. 
Hollow (with) boards make thou it, according to what was showed thee in the mount, so do thou. 
And thou shalt make THE COURT of the tabernacle on the side toward the south: curtains (shall there be) for the court of fine twined linen a hundred cubits in length on one side. 
And its pillars twenty and their bases twenty of brass, the hooks of the pillars and their rods of silver. 
And so for the north side in length (there shall be) curtains of a hundred cubits long, and their columns twenty and their bases twenty of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their rods shall be of silver. 
And on the side of the court toward the west curtains of fifty cubits, their columns ten and their bases ten. 
And the breadth of the court toward the east side eastward, fifty cubits, 
And fifteen cubits the curtains on a side, their columns three and their bases three. 
And on the second side fifteen curtains, their pillars three, and their bases three. 
And for the door of the court shall be an hanging of twenty cubits, of hyacinth, and purple, and vermilion, and fine linen twined, the work of the embroiderer; their pillars four and their bases four. 
All the pillars round about the court shall be (united) with rods of silver, their hooks shall be of silver and their bases of brass. 
The length of the court, one hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty, and the height five cubits, of fine linen twined, and their bases of brass. 
All the vessels of the tabernacle, and all its service, and all its utensils, and all the pins of the court shall be of brass. 
And thou shalt instruct the sons of Israel to bring to thee the pure oil of olives, beaten, to illuminate, that the lamps may burn continually. 
In the tabernacle of ordinance, without the veil that is before the testimony, Aharon and his sons shall set it in order from evening to morning before the Lord; a perpetual statute for the generations of the sons of Israel. 
