Numbers.
Chapter 1.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tabernacle of ordinance, on the first of the second month, in the second year of their coming out from the land of Mizraim, saying: 
Take the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel after their kindreds, and after the house of their fathers, with the number of their names, every male by their capitations: 
From a son of twenty years and upwards, everyone who can go forth to war in Israel, thou and Aharon number them by their hosts. 
And with you let there be a man of each tribe, a man who is chief of the house of his fathers. 
And these are the names of the men who shall stand with you. Of Reuben, Elizur bar Shedeur; 
of Shemeon, Shelumiel bar Zuri-Shaddai; 
Of Jehudah, Nachshon bar Aminadab; 
Of Issakar, Nethanel bar Zuar; 
Of Zebulon, Eliab bar Chelon; 
Of the Beni-Joseph, of Ephraim, Elishama bar Amihud; of Menasheh, Gamliel bar Pheda-Zur; 
Of Benyamin, Abidan bar Gideoni; 
Of Dan, Achiezer bar Amishaddai; 
Of Asher, Phagiel bar Akran; 
Of Gad, Eljasaph bar Dehuel; 
Of Naphtali, Achira bar Enan. 
These were the called ones of the congregation, princes of the tribes of their fathers, chiefs of the thousands of Israel were they. 
And Mosheh and Aharon took these men who were expressed by their names; 
And they assembled all the congregation on the first of the second month, and they declared their pedigrees according to the house of their fathers, with the number of their names from twenty years old and upwards, by their polling. 
As the Lord commanded Mosheh, he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai. 
And the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel, by their generations and their families, according to the house of their fathers, with the number of their names, by their polls; every male from twenty years old and upward, all going forth in the host: 
Of the tribe of Reuben were numbered forty and six thousand and five hundred. 
Of the sons of Shemeon, by their generations and their families and the house of their fathers, were numbered, by the number of their names, according to their polls, every male from twenty years old and upwards, everyone going forth in the host; 
Of the tribe of Shemeon, were numbered fifty and nine thousand and three hundred. 
Of the sons of Gad, the generations of the families of the house of their fathers, according to the number of their names from twenty years old and upwards, everyone going forth in the host; 
Of the tribe of Gad, were numbered forty and five thousand and six hundred and fifty. 
Of the sons of Jehudah, the generations of the families of the house of their fathers, by the number of their names, from twenty years old and upwards, everyone going forth in the host; 
Of the tribe of Jehudah, were numbered seventy and four thousand and six hundred. 
Of the sons of Issakar, the generations of the families of the house of their fathers, by the number of their names, from twenty years old and upwards, everyone going forth in the host; 
Of the tribe of Issakar, were numbered fifty and four thousand and four hundred. 
Of the tribe of Zebulon, the generations of the families of the house of their fathers, by the number of their names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going forth in the host; 
Of the tribe of Zebulon, were numbered fifty and seven thousand and four hundred. 
Of the sons of Joseph, the generations of the Beni-Ephraim by the kindreds of the house of their fathers, in the number of their names, from a son of twenty years and upwards, everyone going forth in the host; 
Of the tribe of Ephraim, forty thousand and five hundred. 
The generations of the Beni Menasheh by the kindreds of the house of their fathers, in the number of their names, from a son of twenty years and upwards, everyone going forth in the host; 
Of the tribe of Menasheh, were numbered thirty and two thousand and two hundred. 
The generations of the sons of Benyamin, by the kindreds of the house of their fathers, in the number of their names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going forth in the host; 
Of the tribe of Benyamin, were numbered thirty and five thousand and four hundred. 
The generations of the Beni Dan, by the kindreds of the house of their fathers, in the number of their names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going forth in the host; 
Of the tribe of Dan, were numbered sixty and two thousand and seven hundred. 
Of the generations or the Beni Asher, by the kindreds of the house of their fathers, in the number of their names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going forth in the host; 
Of the tribe of Asher, were numbered forty and one thousand and five hundred. 
The generations of the sons of Naphtali, by the kindreds of the house of their fathers, in the number of their names, from a son of twenty years and upwards, everyone going forth in the host; 
Of the tribe Naphtali, were numbered fifty and three thousand and four hundred. 
These were the numbered ones whom Mosheh and Aharon, and the twelve men, the princes of Israel, did number, severally, according to the house of their fathers. 
And all those who were numbered of the Beni Israel according to the house of their fathers, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going forth in the host of Israel; 
All the numbered ones were six hundred and three thousand and five hundred and fifty. 
But the Levites, by the tribe of their fathers, were not numbered among them. 
And the Lord had spoken with Mosheh, saying: 
Only the tribe of Levi thou shalt not number, nor take the account of them among the sons of Israel. 
But thou shalt appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of the testimony, and over all its vessels, and over all that belongeth to it: and they shall carry the tabernacle and all its vessels, and serve it; and they shall encamp round about the tabernacle. 
And when the tabernacle is to go forward, the Levites shall take it apart; and when the tabernacle is to be stationary, the Levites shall set it up; but the stranger who cometh nigh shall be put to death. 
And the sons of Israel shall encamp every man upon his own dwelling-place, and every man by his standard, according to their hosts. 
But the Levites shall dwell round about the tabernacle of the testimony, that there may not be wrath upon the congregation of the sons of Israel; and the Levites shall watch the watching of the tabernacle of testimony. 
And the sons of Israel did according to all that the Lord commanded Mosheh, so did they. 
