Genesis.
Chapter 23.
And the life of Sarah was a hundred and twenty and seven years, the years of the life of Sarah. 
And Sarah died in Kiryath-arba, which is Hebron, in the land of Kenaan. And Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to lament her. 
And Abraham rose up from the presence of his dead, and spake with the sons of Hittah, saying, 
I am a guest and a sojourner with you: give me the possession of a sepulchre with you, that I may bury my dead from before me. 
And the sons of Hittah answered Abraham, saying to him, 
Receive from us Ribbona; a prince before the Lord art thou among us; in the best of our sepulchres bury thy dead. No man of us will refuse his sepulchre to thee for the burial of thy dead. 
And Abraham rose and bowed to the people of the land, the sons of Hittah. 
And he spake with them, saying, If you are willing in your minds that I should bury my dead from before me, receive from me, and request for me of Ephron bar Zochar 
That he will give me the Double Cavern, which is in the side of his field: for the full amount (shelim) of silver he shall give it to me among you for the possession of a sepulchre. 
But Ephron was sitting in the midst of the sons of Hittah; and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham before the sons of Hittah, of all entering the gate of the city, saying, 
No, my lord; receive of me; I will present to thee the field and the cavern which is in it; to thee will I present it; in sight of the sons of my people will I present it to thee. Bury thy dead. 
And Abraham bowed before the people of the land. 
And he spake with Ephron before the people of the land, saying, Nevertheless, if thou wilt do me a grace, receive from me; I will give money for the field; take of me, and I will bury my dead there. 
And Ephron answered Abraham, saying to him, 
My lord, receive of me: the land is worth four hundred sileen of silver; between me and thee what is it? Bury thy dead. 
And Abraham agreed with Ephron, and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver of which be had spoken before the sons of Hittah, four hundred sileen of silver, which is received in merchandise in every city. 
And Ephron confirmed the field in which is the double cavern which is before Mamre; the field, and the cavern that is therein, and all the trees which were in the field, in all its boundaries round about, 
To Abraham, for a purchase, in the sight of the sons of Hitah, of all entering the gate of the city. 
And after this Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the double cavern of the field which is before Mamre, that is Hebron, in the land of Kenaan. 
And the field and the cavern which is in it were confirmed to Abraham for the possession of a sepulchre from the sons of Hittah. 
