Genesis.
Chapter 8.
And the Lord remembered Noach, and every living thing, and all the cattle which were with him in the ark; and the Lord caused a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters rested, 
and the springs of the abyss were shut, and the windows of the heavens, and the rain from the heavens was restrained, and the waters turned from on the earth, going and returning; 
And the waters diminished from the end of a hundred and fifty days. 
And the ark rested on the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the mountains of Kardu. 
And the waters went and diminished until the tenth month: in the tenth, on the first of the mouth, the heads of the mountains appeared. 
And it was at the end of forty days, and Noach opened the windows of the ark which he had made. 
And he sent forth a raven, and going he went out, and returned until the waters were dried upon the earth. 
And he sent forth a dove from (being) with him, to see whether the waters were lightened (or consumed) from the surface of the earth. 
But the dove found no rest for the dividing of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, because the waters were upon all the earth; and he stretched forth his hand, and took her, and brought her to be with him in the ark. 
And he prolonged yet seven days, and afterward added to send forth the dove from the ark. 
And the dove came to him at the time of evening, and, behold, a leaf of olive broken off was in her mouth; and Noach knew that the waters were lightened from upon the earth. 
And he prolonged yet other seven days, and sent forth the dove, and she added not to return to be with him again. 
And it was in the six-hundredth and first year, in the beginning of the first month, the waters were dried from off the earth; and Noach removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and, behold, the faces of the ground were dry. 
And in the second month, in the seventeenth day of the month, the earth was fully dry. 
And the Lord spake with Noach, saying: 
Go forth from the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and the wives of thy sons with thee. 
Every living thing which is with thee of all flesh, of fowl, and of cattle, and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, bring forth with thee, and they shall generate in the earth, and spread abroad and multiply upon the earth. 
And Noach went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and the wives of his sons with him; 
Every animal, every reptile and bird, everything which moveth upon the earth after their kind, went forth from the ark. 
And Noach builded an altar before the Lord, and took of every clean beast and of every clean bird, and uplifted an offering upon the altar. 
And the Lord received with approval his oblation; and the Lord said in His Word, I will not add to curse again the earth on account of the guilt of man, because the creations of the heart of man are evil from his infancy; and I will not add again to smite every living thing as I have done. 
Yet all the days of the earth, seed-time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night, shall not cease. 
