Numbers.
Chapter 2.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh and with Aharon, saying: 
Every man (shall encamp) by his standard, by the ensign of the house of their fathers shall the sons of Israel encamp. 
Over against the tabernacle of ordinance shall they encamp round about. The standard of the camp of Jehudah shall they pitch, according to their hosts, eastward toward the sunrise: and the chief of the sons of Jehudah is Nachshon bar Aminadab. 
And his host, and the number of them, seventy and four thousand and six hundred. 
And they who pitch next by him shall be the tribe of Issakar; and the chief of the sons of Issakar, Nethanel bar Zuar; 
And his host, and the numbered of it, fifty and four thousand and four hundred. 
The tribe of Zebulon, and the chief of the sons of Zebulon, Eliab bar Chelon. 
And his host, and the numbered of them, fifty and seven thousand and four hundred. 
All that were numbered of the camp of Jehudah, a hundred and eighty and six thousand and four hundred, by their hosts: they shall go forward in front. 
The standard of the camp of Reuben (shall be) to the south, by their hosts: and the chief of the Beni Reuben, Elizur bar Shedeur. 
And his host, and the numbered of it, forty and six thousand and five hundred. 
And they who pitch by him shall be the tribe of Shemeon; and the chief of the Beni Shemeon, Shelumiel bar Zuri-Shaddai; 
And his host, and the numbered of them, fifty and nine thousand and three hundred. 
And the tribe of Gad, and the chief of the Beni Gad, Eljasaph bar Rehuel; 
And his host, and the numbered of them, forty and five thousand six hundred and fifty. 
All who were numbered of the camp of Reuben, a hundred and fifty and one thousand four hundred and fifty, by their hosts: they shall go forward secondly. 
But the tabernacle of ordinance shall be taken forward with the camp of the Levites, in the midst of the camp: as they encamp, so shall they go onward, every man in his place, by their standard. 
The standard of the camp of Ephraim, by their hosts, shall be to the west: and the chief of the Beni-Ephraim, Elishama bar Ammihud. 
And his host and their numbered ones, forty thousand and five hundred. 
And they who shall be next by him shall be the tribe of Menasheh: and the chief of the Beni Menasheh, Gamliel bar Phedazur. 
And his host, and the numbered thereof, thirty and two thousand and two hundred. 
And the tribe of Benyamin, and the chieftain of the sons of Benyamin, Abidan bar Gideoni: 
And his host, and the numbered thereof, thirty and five thousand and four hundred. 
All the numbered of the camp of Ephraim were a hundred and eight thousand and one hundred, by their hosts: and they went forward thirdly. 
The standard of the camp of Dan (shall be) to the north, by their hosts; and the chieftain of the Beni Dan, Achiezer bar Ammi-Shaddai. 
And his host, and the numbered thereof, sixty and two thousand and seven hundred. 
And those who encamp by him shall be the tribe of Asher; and the chieftain of the Beni Asher, Phagiel bar Akran. 
And his host, and the numbered of it, forty and one thousand and five hundred. 
And the tribe of Naphtali, and the chief of the Beni Naphtali, Achira bar Enan: 
And his host, and the numbered thereof, fifty and three thousand and four hundred. 
All who were numbered of the camp of Dan, a hundred and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred: they shall go hindmost by their standards. 
These are they who were numbered of the sons of Israel, by the house of their fathers; all who were numbered in the camps by their hosts, six hundred and three thousand five hundred and fifty. 
But the Levites were not numbered among the sons of Israel, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And the sons of Israel did according to all which the Lord commanded Mosheh: so did they encamp by their standards, and so went they forward every man by his family, and by the house of his fathers. 
