Exodus.
Chapter 39.
And of the hyacinth, and purple, and crimson, they made the vestments of ministration to minister in the sanctuary, and they made the holy vestments of Aharon, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And he made the ephoda of gold, hyacinth, and purple, and crimson, and fine linen twined. 
And they beat out the plates of gold, and cut (them) into threads, to insert into the hyacinth, and the purple, and the crimson, and the fine linen, the work of the artificer. 
Shoulder-pieces made they for it, conjoined; at the two sides were they conjoined. 
And the band of its fastening which is upon it was of the same according to its work, of gold, hyacinth, and purple, and crimson, and fine linen twined, as the Lord had commanded Mosheh. 
And they wrought the onyx stones, inset in sockets of gold, engraven in distinct writing, with the names of the sons of Israel. 
And he set them upon the shoulders of the ephoda, stones of memorial of the sons of Israel, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And he made the BREASTPLATE (chushena), the work of the artificer, according to the work of the ephoda, of gold, hyacinth, and purple, and crimson, and fine linen twined. 
Foursquare was it, doubled made they the breastplate; a span its length, and a span its breadth, doubled. 
And they filled it with four rows of precious stones: the first row carnelian, topaz, and carbuncle, row one; 
The second row, smaragud, sapphire, and emerald; 
And the third row, jacinth, agate, and amethyst; 
And the fourth row, chrysolite, beryl, and jasper: they were set in sockets of gold, in their infillings. 
And the stones were according to the names of the sons of Israel, twelve, according to their names, written distinctly, as the engraving of a ring, each according to his name for the twelve tribes. 
And they made upon the breastplate chains enwreathed, a work of braiding, of pure gold. 
And they made two sockets of gold, and two golden rings, and put the two rings upon the two sides of the breastplate. 
And they put the two golden wreaths upon the two rings upon the sides of the breastplate, 
and the two wreaths which were upon the two sides they put upon the two sockets, and set them upon the shoulders of the ephoda towards its face. 
And they made two rings of gold, and set them on the two sides of the breastplate, upon its edge which was on the side of the ephoda inward. 
And they made two golden rings, and set them on the two shoulders of the ephoda underneath towards its front, toward the place of its conjoinment, above the band of the ephoda. 
And they adunited the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephoda, by a ribbon of hyacinth, to be upon the band of the ephoda, that the breastplate might not be loosened from the ephoda, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And he made the ROBE of the ephoda, the work of the embroiderer, altogether of hyacinth. 
And the opening (mouth) of the robe in the middle of it like the opening of a corslet, with a binding going about its border, that it might not be torn. 
And they made upon the hem of the robe pomegranates of hyacinth and purple and crimson inwoven. 
And they made bells of pure gold, and set the bells among the pomegranates upon the hem of the robe round about among the pomegranates. 
A bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, upon the hem of the robe round about, to minister, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And they made the tunics of fine linen, the work of the weaver, for Aharon and for his sons. 
And the tiara of fine linen, and the mitres of beauty of fine linen; and the drawers of linen, of fine linen twined. 
And the girdle of fine linen twined, and hyacinth and purple and crimson, the work of the embroiderer, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And they made the plate of the diadem of holiness of pure gold, and wrote upon it as the engraving of a ring in distinct writing, HOLINESS UNTO THE LORD. 
And they put upon it a ribbon of hyacinth, that it might be upon the tiara above, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
Arid completed was all the work of the tabernacle, the tabernacle of ordinance; and the sons of Israel did according to all that the Lord had commanded Mosheh, so did they. 
And they brought the tabernacle to Mosheh, the tabernacle and all its vessels, its taches, its boards, its bars, and its pillars, and its bases. 
And the covering of rams’ skins reddened, and the covering of purple skins, and the veil for the hanging; 
And the ark of the testimony and its staves, and the mercy seat; 
The table and all its vessels, and the bread of the Presence; 
The pure candelabrum and its lamps, the lamps of order, and all its vessels; and the oil for the light 
And the golden altar, and the oil of consecration, and the sweet incense; and the hanging for the door of the tabernacle; 
And the brasen altar and the brasen grate for it; its staves and all its vessels; and the laver and its base, 
the hangings of the court, its pillars, and its sockets, and the veil for the gate of the court, its cords, and its pins, and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle, for the tabernacle of ordinance; 
The vestments of ministration to minister in the sanctuary, and the holy vestments of Aharon the priest, and the vestments of his sons to minister: 
According to all that the Lord commanded Mosheh, so made the sons of Israel all the service. 
And Mosheh surveyed all the work, and, behold, they had done it as the Lord had commanded, so had they done; and Mosheh blessed them. 
