Genesis.
Chapter 39.
But Joseph was brought down into Mizraim, and Potiphar, a chief of Pharoh, a chief of the killers, a Mizraite man, bought him from the hand of the Arabaee who had brought him down thither. 
And the Word of the Lord was the helper of Joseph, and he became a prosperous man, and was in the house of his Mizraite master. 
And his master saw that the Word of the Lord was his helper, and that all that he did the Lord prospered in his hand. 
And Joseph found favour in his eyes, and he served him. And he appointed him over his house, and all that he had he delivered into his hand. 
And it was from the time that he appointed him over his house, and over all that he had, that the Lord blessed the house of the Mizraite for Joseph’s sake, and the blessing of the Lord was upon all that he had, in the house and in the field. 
And he left all that belonged to him in the hand of Joseph; and he knew of nothing that was with him, except the bread which he ate. Now Joseph was of goodly appearance, beautiful in aspect. 
And it was after these things that the wife of his master lifted up her eyes to Joseph, and said, Lie with me. 
But be refused, and said to his master’s wife, Behold, my master knoweth not what is with me in the house, and all that he hath he hath delivered unto my hand; 
There is no one in this housegreater than I, and be hath not prohibited anything from me but thyself, because thou art his wife: and how can I do this great wickedness and become guilty before the Lord? 
And it was when she spake with Joseph daily that he would not hearken to her to lie with her, or be with her. 
And it was about this day that he came into the house to examine the writings of his affairs, and no man of the men of the house was there in the house. 
And she laid hold of his garments, saying, Lie with me. But he left his garment in her hand, and fled, and went forth into the street. 
no translation 
And she called to the men of her house, and spake to them, saying, See, he brought us a Hebrew man to mock at us. He came in to me to lie with me; and I cried with a high voice. 
And it was when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, he left his robe with me, and fled and went forth into the street. 
And she let his robe remain with her until his master came into his house. 
And she spake with him these words, saying, The Hebrew servant whom thou broughtest us came in to me to mock at me. 
And it was when I lifted up my voice and cried, he left his robe with me and fled into the street. 
And when his master heard the words of his wife which she spake with him, saying, According to these things hath thy servant done to me, his anger waxed strong, 
And his master took Joseph, and delivered him to the house of the bound, where the prisoners of the king were bound; and he was there in the house of the bound. 
But the Word of the Lord was the helper of Joseph, and showed him mercy, and gave him favour in the eyes of the captain of the prison. 
And the captain of the prison gave into the hand of Joseph all the prisoners who were in the house of the bound, and all that they did there was done according to his word. 
The captain of the prison saw no fault in his hand, because the Word of the Lord was his helper, and that which he did the Lord made to prosper. 
