Numbers.
Chapter 29.
And in the seventh month, on the first of the month, you shall have a holy convocation, and do no servile work; it shall be a day of the sounding of the trumpet to you. 
And you shall make a burnt sacrifice to be received with favour before the Lord: one young bullock, one ram, lambs of the year seven, unblemished, 
and their mincha of flour mingled with oil, three tenths for the bullock, two-tenths for the ram, 
And one-tenth for each of the seven lambs; 
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering to make an atonement for you; 
Beside the offering of the month, and its mincha, and the perpetual sacrifice and its mincha, and their libations, as proper for them, to be received with favour, an oblation before the Lord. 
And on the tenth of this seventh month you shall have a holy convocation, and afflict your souls; you shall do no labour, 
but offer a burnt offering before the Lord to be received with favour: one young bullock, one ram, lambs of the year seven, unblemished shall you have; 
And their mincha of flour mingled with oil; three tenths for the bullock, two-tenths for the ram, 
And a single tenth for each of the seven lambs; 
One kid of the goats for a sin offering, beside the sin offering of the expiations, and the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and their libations. 
And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation; no servile labour shall you do, but celebrate a festival before the Lord seven days; 
And offer a burnt sacrifice, an oblation to be received with favour before the Lord; thirteen young bullocks, two rams, lambs of the year fourteen, unblemished shall they be; 
And their mincha of flour mingled with oil, three tenths to one bullock for the thirteen bullocks, two-tenths for each ram, 
And one-tenth for each of the fourteen lambs, 
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and libation. 
And on the second day you shall offer twelve young bullocks, two rams, fourteen unblemished lambs of the year, 
and the minchas and libations for the bullocks, for the rams and the lambs, as is proper for their number; 
And one kid of the goats, a sin offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and libation. 
And on the third day eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen unblemished lambs of the year; 
And their minchas and libations for the bullocks, the rams, and the lambs, as befitteth their number; 
And one kid for a sin offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and libation. 
On the fourth day ten bullocks, two rams, lambs of the year unblemished fourteen; 
Their minchas and libations for the bullocks, rams, and lambs by their number, as it is proper; 
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and libation. 
And on the fifth day nine bullocks, two rams, lambs of the year unblemished fourteen; 
The minchas and libations for the bullocks, rams, and lambs after their number, as it is proper; 
And one kid for a sin offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice and its libation. 
And on the sixth day eight bullocks, two rams, lambs of the year unblemished fourteen; 
The minchas and libations for the bullocks, rams, and lambs by their number, as is proper; 
And one kid for the sin offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and libation. 
And on the seventh day seven bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the year unblemished; 
The minchas and libations for the bullocks, rams, and lambs by their number, as is proper; 
And one kid for the sin offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and libation. 
On the eighth day you shall have all assembly; no servile work shall you do, 
But offer a sacrifice, all oblation to be received with favour before the Lord; one bullock, one ram, seven Iambs of the year unblemished; 
The minchas and libations for the bullock, the ram, and the lambs, as proper, according to their number; 
And one kid for a sill offering, beside the perpetual sacrifice, its mincha and libation. 
These shall you offer before the Lord in your solemnities, beside your vows and your free-will offerings with your burnt sacrifices, their minchas and their libations, and with your sanctified victims. 
