Exodus.
Chapter 40.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, 
In the day of the first month, in the first of the month, thou shalt uprear the tabernacle, the tabernacle of ordinance. 
And thou shalt set there the ark of the testimony, and outspread the veil before the ark; 
And thou shalt bring in the table, and arrange the order thereof. And thou shalt bring in the candelabrum, and kindle its lamps. 
And thou shalt put the golden altar of sweet incense before the ark of the testimony, and set the veil of the door of the tabernacle. 
And thou shalt put the altar of burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle, the tabernacle of ordinance. 
And thou shalt place the laver between the tabernacle of ordinance and the altar, and put water therein. 
And thou shalt set the court round about, and put the hanging at the gate of the court. 
And thou shalt take the oil of consecration, and anoint the tabernacle and all that is therein, and sanctify it, and all its vessels, and it shall be holy. 
And thou shalt anoint the altar of burnt offering, and all its vessels, and sanctify the altar; and it shall be an altar most holy. 
And thou shalt anoint the laver and its base, and sanctify it. 
And thou shalt bring Aharon and his sons to the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, and lave them with water, 
and shalt clothe Aharon with the holy vestments, and anoint him, and consecrate him, that he may minister before Me. 
And thou shalt bring his sons and clothe them with the tunics, 
And consecrate them, as thou didst consecrate their father, that they may minister before Me, and that it may be to them the consecration of a perpetual priesthood in their generations. 
And Mosheh did according to all which the Lord commanded, so did he. 
And it was in the first month, in the second year, on the first of the month, that the tabernacle was reared. 
And Mosheh reared the tabernacle, and placed its bases, and set its boards, and fixed its bars, and reared its pillars; 
Arid he spread the tent upon the tabernacle, and set the covering of the tabernacle over it, above, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And he took and placed the testimony in the ark, and set the staves upon the ark, and placed the mercy seat upon the ark above. 
And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and placed the veil which was spread to overshadow the ark of the testimony, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And he placed the table in the tabernacle of ordinance upon the side of the tabernacle northward without the veil. 
And he set in order upon it the rows of bread before the Lord, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And he set the candelabrum in the tabernacle of ordinance over against the table on the side of the tabernacle southward. 
And he kindled the lamps before the Lord, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And he set the golden altar in the tabernacle of ordinance before the veil, 
and burned thereon sweet incense, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And he set the hanging of the door of the tabernacle, 
and the altar of burnt offering set he at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, and offered upon it the burnt offering, and the oblation, (mincha,) as the Lord had commanded Mosheh. 
And he set the laver between the tabernacle of ordinance and the altar, and put water therein for purifying. 
And Mosheh and Aharon and his sons purified with it their hands and their feet. 
In their going into the tabernacle of ordinance and in their approachment to the altar, they purified (themselves), as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And he set up the court, round about the tabernacle and the altar, and set the hanging of the gate of the court: and Mosheh completed the work. 
And the Cloud covered the tabernacle of ordinance, and the Glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. 
And Mosheh was not able to enter into the tabernacle of ordinance, because the Cloud abode upon it, and the Glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. 
And when the Cloud ascended above the tabernacle, the sons of Israel went forward in all their journeys. 
And if the Cloud did not ascend, they did not proceed, until the day of its uprising. 
For the Cloud of the Glory of the Lord was upon the tabernacle by day, and the vision of fire was in it by night, in the eyes of all the house of Israel in all their journeys. 
