Leviticus.
Chapter 17.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with Aharon, and with his sons, and with all the sons of Israel, and say to them: This is the word which the Lord hath commanded, saying: 
Any man of the house of Israel who shall kill bullock or lamb or goat in the camp, or who shall kill (such as sacrifices) without the camp, 
and bring it not to the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, that it may be offered an oblation in the presence of the Lord before the tabernacle of the Lord, blood shall be reckoned to that man; he hath shed blood, and that man shall be destroyed from his people. 
In order that the sons of Israel may bring their victims which they (formerly) sacrificed upon the face of the field, before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, unto the priest, and offer them as consecrated oblations in the presence of the Lord. 
And the priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar of the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, and burn the fat to be received with acceptance before the Lord. 
And they shall no more sacrifice their victims unto demons after which they have wandered: this shall be an everlasting statute to you unto your generations. 
And say thou to them, Whatever man of the house of Israel, or the stranger who sojourneth among you, who sacrificeth a burnt offering or a consecrated victim, 
And bringeth it not to the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, that it may be performed before the Lord, that man shall be destroyed from his people. 
And what man soever of the house of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn among you, who shall eat any blood, I will set my anger upon the man who shall have eaten blood, and will destroy him from among his people. 
Because the life of flesh is in the blood, and I have given it to you upon the altar to make atonement for your souls; for it IS THE BLOOD THAT ATONETH FOR THE SOUL. 
Therefore have I said to the children of Israel, Let no man of you eat blood, nor let the strangers who sojourn among you eat blood; 
And whatever man of the sons of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn among you, that hunteth venison of beast or bird which may be eaten, let him pour out its blood and cover it in the earth (or in the dust). 
For the life of all flesh is its blood; it is for its life; and I have said to the children of Israel, You shall not eat the blood of any flesh, for the life of all flesh is its blood; everyone who eateth of it shall be destroyed. 
And everyone who eateth of a carcase (that hath died of itself) or hath been torn, whether he be native-born or of the strangers, let him wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening, and (then) shall he be clean. 
But if he wash not, nor bathe his flesh, he shall bear his transgression. 
