Genesis.
Chapter 10.
And these are the generations of the sons of Noach, Shem, Cham, and Yapheth; and sons were born to them after the deluge. 
The sons of Yepheth, Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Yavan, and Thuval, and Meshek, and Tiras. 
And the sons of Gomer, Ashkenaz, and Rephath, and Thogarmah. 
And the sons of Yavan, Elishah and Tharshish, and Dodanim. 
From these were the isles (nagvath) of the peoples divided in their lands, each according to his language, according to their families in their nations. 
And the sons of Cham, Kush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Kenaan. 
And the sons of Kush, Seba, and Chavilah, and Sabetha, and Raamah, and Sabtekah. And the sons of Raamah, Sheba and Dedan. 
And Kush begat Nimrod: he began to be a powerful man in the earth. 
He was a powerful man before the Lord: therefore it is said, Like Nimrod the man of might before the Lord. 
And the head (beginning) of his kingdom was Bavel, and Erek, and Akad, and Kalneh in the land of Bavel. 
From that land he went forth to Athura, and built Nineveh, and the city of Rechov, and Kalach, 
and Resen, between Nineveh and Kalach, which was a great city. 
And Mizraim begat the Ludaee, and Anamaee, and Lehabaee, and Naphtuhaee, 
and Pathrusaee, and Kasluchaee, from whom came forth the Pelishtaee and Kaputkaee. 
And Kenaan begat Zidon his firstborn, and Cheth, 
and the Jebusaee, and Amoraee, and Girgashee, 
and Hivaaee, and Arkaee, and Antasaee, 
and Arvadaee, and Zemaraee, and Chamathaee: and afterwards the seed of the Kenaanaee were scattered abroad. 
And the frontier of Kenaanaah was from Zidon, coming to Gerar and to Azza, coming unto Sedom, and Amorah, and Admah, and Zeboim, unto Lasha. 
These are the sons of Cham, according to their progenies, to their languages, in their lands, in their peoples. 
And of Shem was born: (also he is the father of all the sons of Eber, and the brother of Yapheth the Great:) 
The sons of Shem, Elim, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram. 
And the sons of Aram, Uz, and Chul, and Gether, and Mash. 
And Arphaxad begat Shelach; and Shelach begat Eber. 
And to Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg: because in his day the earth was divided. And the name of his brother was Yoktan. 
And Yoktan begat Almodad, and Shaleph, and Chatsarmaveth, and Yarech, 
and Chadoram, and Uzal, and Dikelah, 
and Obal, and Avimael, and Sheba, 
and Ophir, and Chavilah, and Yobab: all these are the sons of Yoktan. 
And their dwelling was from Mesha, coming to Sephar, an eastern mountain. 
These are the sons of Shem, according to their progenies, according to their languages, in their lands, in their peoples. 
These are the progenies of the sons of Noach, by their generations, in their peoples: and by them were the peoples outspread in the earth after the deluge. 
