Numbers.
Chapter 3.
And these are the generations of Aharon and Mosheh in the day that the Lord spake with Mosheh in the mountain of Sinai. 
And these; are the names of the sons of Aharon. His firstborn, Nadab; and Abihu, Elazar, and Ithamar. 
These are the names of the sons of Aharon, the priests, who were consecrated that their oblations might be offered, (and that they might) minister. 
But Nadab and Abihu died before the Lord; in their offering the strange fire before the Lord in the wilderness of Sinai: and they had no children. And Elazar and Ithamar ministered before Aharon their father. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Bring the tribe of Levi near, and appoint them before Aharon the priest, that they may minister with him. 
And they shall keep the watch and the charge of all the congregation by the tabernacle of ordinance to perform the service of the tabernacle. 
And they shall keep all the vessels of the tabernacle of ordinance, and the charge of the sons of Israel to perform the service of the tabernacle. 
And thou shalt give the Levites unto Aharon, and to his sons; they are delivered and given to him from the sons of Israel. 
And thou shalt appoint Aharon and his sons, that they may keep their priesthood; but the stranger who cometh near shall be put to death. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
And I, behold, I have brought near the Levites from among the sons of Israel instead of every firstborn that openeth the womb of the sons of Israel; and the Levites shall minister before Me. 
For every firstborn is Mine; on the day that I slew every firstborn in the land of Mizraim, I sanctified before Me every firstborn in Israel from man to animal; they are Mine: I am the Lord. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh in the wilderness of Sinai, saying: 
Number the sons of Levi, after the house of their fathers, by their families; every male from a month old and upward shalt thou number them. 
And Mosheh numbered them according to the word of the Lord, as he had been commanded. 
And these were the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon and Kehath and Merari. 
And these are the names of the Beni-Gershon after their families: Lebni and Shemei. 
And the Beni Kehath after their families: Amram and Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel. 
And the Beni-Merari by their families, Mahali and Mushi; these are the families of the Levites after the house of their fathers. 
Of Gershon were the family of Libni and the family of Shemei; these are the families of Gershon. 
Those that were numbered of them, every male from the son of a month and upward, the number of them was seven thousand and five hundred. 
The families of Gershon shall encamp behind the tabernacle, westward: 
And the Rab of the house of the fathers of Gershon, Eljasaph bar Lael. 
And the charge of the Beni-Gershon in the tabernacle of ordinance (shall be) the tent and its covering, and the hanging of the door of the tabernacle of ordinance; 
And the curtains of the court, and the hanging of the gate of the court which is by the tabernacle, and by the altar round about, and the cords of it, for all its service. 
And of Kehath was the family of Amram, and the family of Izhar, and the family or Hebron, and the family of Uzziel: these are the families of Kehath. 
According to the number of all the males, from the son of a month and upward, eight thousand and six hundred, keeping the charge of the sanctuary. 
The families of the Beni Kehath shall encamp by the side of the tabernacle, southward. 
And the Rab of the house of the fathers of the Kehath families (shall be) Elizaphan bar Uzziel. 
And their charge shall be the ark, and the table, and the candelabrum, and the altar, and the vessels of the sanctuary with which they minister, and the tent, (or hanging, Sam. Vers., “covering,”) and all (that pertaineth to) the service thereof. 
And the chief (armarkella) who is appointed over the chiefs (rabbins) of the Levites is Elazar bar Aharon the priest: under his hand shall they be appointed who have the charge of the keeping of the sanctuary. 
Of Merari, the families of Mahli and the families of Mushi. 
And the numbers of them, according to the numbers of all the males, from the son of a month and upwards, six thousand and two hundred. 
And the Rab of the house of the fathers of the Merari families, Zuriel bar Abichael; and they shall encamp on the side of the tabernacle northward. 
And the charge for the custody of the sons of Merari shall be the boards of the tabernacle, and its bars, and its pillars, and its sockets, and all its vessels, and whatever (pertaineth) to its service; 
And the pillars of the court round about, and their sockets, their pins, and their cords. 
But they who encamp before the tabernacle eastward, even before the tabernacle of ordinance toward the sunrise, shall be Mosheh, and Aharon and his sons, keeping charge of the sanctuary, to watch over the children of Israel; and the stranger who cometh near shall be put to death. 
All who were numbered of the Levites whom Mosheh and Aharon numbered by the word of the Lord, by their families, every male, from the son of a month and upward, twenty and two thousand. 
And the Lord spake unto Mosheh, Number all the firstborn males of the children of Israel, from the son of a month upward, and the number of their names. 
And thou shalt take the Levites before me, I am the Lord, instead of all the firstborn of the sons of Israel; and the cattle of the Levites instead of all the firstlings of the cattle of the Beni Israel. 
And Mosheh numbered, as the Lord commanded him, all the firstborn of the sons of Israel. 
And all the firstborn males, by the number of their names, from the son of a month and upward by their numbers, were twenty and two thousand two hundred and seventy and three. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Take the Levites instead of all the firstborn of the Beni Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of their cattle; and the Levites shall minister before Me: I am the Lord. 
And of the redeemed ones of the two hundred and seventy and three of the sons of Israel who are more than the Levites, 
Thou shalt take of each five shekels, by poll, in the shekel of the sanctuary shalt thou take; twenty mahin are a shekel. 
And thou shalt give the silver of the redeemed who exceed them to Aharon and his sons. 
And Mosheh took the silver of the redeemed who were more than the redeemed by the Levites. 
Of the firstborn of the Beni Israel he took the silver, a thousand and three hundred and sixty-five shekels, in the shekel of the sanctuary. 
And Mosheh gave the silver of the redeemed ones to Aharon and to his sons, by the Word of the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Mosheh. 
