1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 5.
Now concerning the times and seasons, brothers, you have no need that anything be written to you. 
For you yourselves know perfectly well that the day of the Lord is coming like a thief in the night. 
When they say, “Peace and safety,” then sudden destruction will come on them. It will be like birth pains in a pregnant woman. They will in no way escape. 
But you, brothers, are not in darkness so that the day would overtake you like a thief. 
For you are all sons of the light and sons of the day. We are not sons of the night or the darkness. 
So then, let us not sleep as the rest do. Instead, let us keep watch and be sober. 
For those who sleep do so at night, and those who get drunk do so at night. 
But since we belong to the day, we must stay sober and put on faith and love as a breastplate, and the hope of salvation for our helmet. 
For God did not appoint us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. 
It is he who died for us so that, whether we are awake or asleep, we may live together with him. 
Therefore comfort one another and build each other up, just as you are already doing. 
We ask you, brothers, to acknowledge those who labor among you and who are over you in the Lord and who admonish you. 
We also ask you to regard them highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves. 
We exhort you, brothers: Warn the disorderly, encourage the discouraged, help the weak, and be patient toward all. 
See that no one pays back evil for evil to anyone. Instead, pursue what is good for one another and for all. 
Rejoice always. 
Pray without ceasing. 
In everything give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. 
Do not quench the Spirit. 
Do not despise prophecies. 
Test all things. Hold on to what is good. 
Avoid every appearance of evil. 
May the God of peace make you completely holy. May your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved without blame for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Faithful is he who calls you, the one who will also do it. 
Brothers, pray also for us. 
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. 
I solemnly charge you by the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers. 
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
