Ezekiel.
Chapter 30.
The word of Yahweh came to me, saying, 
“Son of man, prophesy and say, 'The Lord Yahweh says this: Wail, “Woe is the coming day.” 
The day is near. The day is near for Yahweh. It will be a day of clouds, a time of doom for nations. 
Then a sword will come against Egypt, and there will be anguish in Cush when the killed people fall in Egypt— when they take her wealth, and when her foundations are ruined. 
Cush and Put, Lydia and all Arabia, and Libya, together with the people belonging to the covenant—they will all fall by the sword. 
Yahweh says this: So the ones who support Egypt will fall, and the pride of her strength will go down. From Migdol to Syene their soldiers will fall by the sword—this is the Lord Yahweh's declaration. 
They will be appalled in the midst of the abandoned lands, and their cities will be among all the ruined cities. 
Then they will know that I am Yahweh, when I set fire in Egypt, and when all of her helpers are destroyed. 
In that day messengers will go out from before me in ships to terrorize a secure Cush, and there will be anguish among them on the day of Egypt's doom. For behold! It is coming. 
The Lord Yahweh says this: I will make an end of the multitudes of Egypt by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon. 
He and his army with him, the terror of nations, will be brought to destroy the land; they will draw out their swords against Egypt and fill the land with those who have been killed. 
I will make the rivers into dry ground, and I will sell the land into the hand of wicked men. I will make the land and its fullness desolate by the hand of strangers—I, Yahweh, have spoken. 
The Lord Yahweh says this: I will destroy idols, and I will bring an end to the worthless idols of Memphis. There will no longer be a prince in the land of Egypt, and I will put terror on the land of Egypt. 
Then I will make Pathros desolate and set fire in Zoan, and I will execute acts of judgment on Thebes. 
For I will pour out my fury on Pelusium, the stronghold of Egypt, and cut off the multitude of Thebes. 
Then I will set fire in Egypt; Pelusium will be in great agony, Thebes will be broken up, and Memphis will face enemies every day. 
The young men in Heliopolis and Bubastis will fall by the sword, and their cities will go into captivity. 
In Tahpanhes, the day will hold back its light when I break the yoke of Egypt there, and the pride of her strength will be finished. There will be a cloud covering her, and her daughters will walk into captivity. 
I will execute acts of judgment in Egypt, so they will know that I am Yahweh.'” 
Then it came about in the eleventh year, in the first month, in the seventh day of the month, that the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, 
“Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. Behold! It has not been bound up, or set to heal with a bandage, so that it will become strong enough to grasp a sword. 
Therefore the Lord Yahweh says this, 'Behold, I am against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt. For I will break his arm, both the strong one and the broken one, and I will make the sword fall from his hand. 
Then I will scatter Egypt among the nations and disperse them among the lands. 
I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and place my sword in his hand so that I might destroy Pharaoh's arms. He will groan before the king of Babylon with the groans of a dying man. 
For I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, while Pharaoh's arms will fall. Then they will know that I am Yahweh, when I put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon; for he will attack the land of Egypt with it. 
So I will scatter Egypt among the nations and disperse them through the lands. Then they will know that I am Yahweh.'” 
