Hebrews.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, let us be very careful so that none of you might seem to have failed to reach the promise left behind for you to enter God's rest. 
For we were told the good news just as they were. But that message did not benefit those who did not unite in faith with those who obeyed. 
For we who have believed enter that rest, just as he said, “As I swore in my wrath, They will never enter my rest.” Even so, his works were finished from the foundation of the world. 
For he has somewhere spoken about the seventh day: “And God rested on the seventh day from all his works.” 
And again in this same passage he said, “They will never enter my rest.” 
Therefore, because it is still reserved for some to enter his rest, and since many Israelites who heard the good news did not enter it because of disobedience, 
God has again set a certain day calling it “Today.” After many days, he spoke through David, as it was earlier said, “Today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts.” 
For if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken about another day. 
Therefore there is still a Sabbath rest reserved for God's people. 
For he who enters into God's rest has himself also rested from his deeds, just as God did from his. 
Therefore let us be eager to enter that rest, so that no one will fall into the kind of disobedience that they did. 
For the word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword. It pierces even to the division of soul from spirit, and joints from marrow. It is able to know the heart's thoughts and intentions. 
Nothing created is hidden before God. Instead, everything is bare and open to the eyes of the one to whom we must give account. 
Therefore, since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us firmly hold to our beliefs. 
For we do not have a high priest who cannot feel sympathy for our weaknesses. Instead, we have someone who has in all ways been tempted as we are, except that he is without sin. 
Let us then go with confidence to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. 
