Romans.
Chapter 10.
It’s like this. A long time ago, Moses wrote that people will be all right if they follow all of God’s law. He wrote, “If anybody always does everything in God’s law, they will live.” 
But God’s book also tells us that if we trust God, he will say that we are all right, even though we don’t always do everything in God’s law. So don’t think that somebody has to go up to heaven, to bring Jesus Christ down to the earth. 
And don’t think that somebody has to go down to the place where the dead people are, to get Jesus Christ and make him alive again. 
This is what God says in his book, “You already have God’s message. You know that message, so you can think about it, and you can talk about it.” That message is the same message that we tell everybody. We say, “You have to trust Jesus.” 
Yes, you have to really believe that God made Jesus alive again after he died, and you have to tell people that you belong to Jesus. If you believe like that, and if you talk like that, God will save you. 
If you really believe God, and if you tell everybody that you believe in him, then he says that you are all right, and he saves you. 
God says this about Jesus in his book, “Everybody that trusts him will always know that they are going the right way, and God will save them.” 
That message is for everyone, Jewish people and people that are not Jewish. We are all the same, we have the same God, and he is good to everyone that asks him for help. 
And God says this in his book too, “God will save everybody that calls out to him for help and asks him to save them.” 
But what about people that don’t believe in God? They can’t call out to him, right? And what about people that have never even heard about Jesus? They can’t believe in him, right? Somebody has to tell them about him, and then they can believe in him. 
And somebody has to send those messengers to go and tell the people about Jesus. God says this in his book too, “It is really good to see God’s messengers come and bring his good news.” 
But some people don’t want to hear God’s message. A long time ago, Isaiah, one of God’s men, wrote this in God’s book, “Hardly anybody believes the message we tell them, God.” 
But, you see, people have to hear that good message about Jesus Christ before they can believe in him. 
