Mark.
Chapter 10.
And he arose from thence, and cometh into the borders of Judea by the other side of the Jordan: and multitudes come together unto him again; and, as he was wont, he taught them again. 
And there came unto him Pharisees, and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? trying him. 
And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you? 
And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put her away. 
And Jesus answered and said unto them, For your hardness of heart he wrote you this commandment. 
But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female. 
For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife; 
and the two shall become one flesh: so that they are no more two, but one flesh. 
What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. 
And in the house his disciples asked him again of the same matter. 
And he saith unto them, Whosoever shall put away his wife, and marry another, committeth adultery against her: 
and if a woman shall put away her husband, and be married to another, she committeth adultery. 
And they were bringing unto him little children, that he should touch them: and the disciples rebuked those that brought them. 
But when Jesus saw it, he was moved with indignation, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me; forbid them not: for to such belongeth the kingdom of God. 
Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall in no wise enter therein. 
And he took them in his arms, laid his hands upon them, and blessed them. 
And as he was going forth into the way, there ran one to him, and knelt to him, and asked him, Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? 
And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? none is good save one, even God. 
Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor thy father and mother. 
And he answered and said unto him, Teacher, all these things have I observed from my youth. 
And Jesus looking upon him loved him, and said unto him, One thing thou lackest: go, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me, taking up the cross. 
But his countenance fell at the saying, and he went away sorrowful: for he was one that had great possessions. 
And Jesus looked round about, and saith unto his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God! 
And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus answereth again, and saith unto them, Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God! 
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. 
And they were astonished exceedingly, saying among themselves, Then who can be saved? 
And Jesus looking upon them saith, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for all things are possible with God. 
Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee. 
Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and for the gospel’s sake, 
but he shall receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecutions; and in the world to come eternal life. 
But many that are first shall be last; and last first. 
And they were on the way, going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus was going before them: and they were amazed; and as they followed, they were afraid. And he took again the twelve, and began to tell them the things that were to happen unto him, 
saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the chief priests and scribes; and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him unto the Gentiles: 
and they shall mock him, and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him; and the third day he shall rise again. 
And there come near unto him James and John, the sons of Zebedee, saying, Teacher, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall ask. 
And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do for you? 
And they said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and one on thy left hand, in thy glory. 
But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink the cup that I drink? and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? 
And they said unto him, We are able. And Jesus said unto them, The cup that I drink indeed ye shall drink; and with the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized: 
but to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give; but it is for them for whom it hath been prepared. 
And when the ten heard it, they began to be moved with indignation concerning James and John. 
But Jesus called them to him, and saith unto them, Ye know that they who are accounted to rule over the Gentiles lord it over them; and their great ones exercise authority over them. 
But it shall not be so among you: but whosoever would become great among you, shall be your minister; 
and whosoever would become first among you, shall be servant of all. 
For the Son of man also came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. 
And they come to Jericho: and as he went out from Jericho, with his disciples and a great multitude, a son of Timaeus, Bartimaeus the blind man, was sitting by the wayside begging. 
And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, and say, Son of David, Jesus, have mercy on me. 
And many rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but he cried out the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. 
And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be called. And they call the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good cheer: rise, he calleth thee. 
And he, casting away his garment, rose up, and came to Jesus. 
And Jesus answereth, and saith unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? And the blind man said unto him, Rabboni, that I may receive my sight. 
And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way; thy faith hath made thee whole. And straightaway he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way. 
