1 Esdras.
Chapter 9.
Then Ezra rising from the court of the temple went to the chamber of Jehohanan the son of Eliashib, 
and lodged there, and did eat no bread nor drink water, mourning for the great iniquities of the multitude. 
And there was made proclamation in all Judea and Jerusalem to all them that were of the captivity, that they should be gathered together at Jerusalem: 
and that whosoever met not there within two or three days, according as the elders that bare rule appointed, their cattle should be seized to the use of the temple, and himself cast out from the multitude of them that were of the captivity. 
And in three days were all they of the tribe of Judah and Benjamin gathered together at Jerusalem: this was the ninth month, on the twentieth day of the month. 
And all the multitude sat together trembling in the broad place before the temple because of the present foul weather. 
So Ezra arose up and said unto them, ye have transgressed the law and married strange wives, thereby to increase the sins of Israel. 
And now make confession and give glory unto the Lord, the God of our fathers, 
and do his will, and separate yourselves from the heathen of the land, and from the strange women. 
Then cried the whole multitude, and said with a loud voice, Like as thou hast spoken, so will we do. 
But forasmuch as the multitude is great, and it is foul weather, so that we cannot stand without, and this is not a work of one day or two, seeing our sin in these things is spread far: 
therefore let the rulers of the multitude stay, and let all them of our habitations that have strange wives come at the time appointed, 
and with them the rulers and judges of every place, till we turn away the wrath of the Lord from us for this matter. 
Then Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahzeiah the son of Tikvah accordingly took the matter upon them: and Meshullam and Levi and Shabbethai were assessors to them. 
And they that were of the captivity did according to all these things. 
And Ezra the priest chose unto him principal men of their families, all by name: and on the new moon of the tenth month they were shut in together to examine the matter. 
So their cause that held strange wives was brought to an end by the new moon of the first month. 
And of the priests that were come together, and had strange wives, there were found; 
of the sons of Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and his brethren: Maaseiah, and Eleazar, and Jarib, and Jodan. 
And they gave their hands to put away their wives, and to offer rams to make reconcilement for their error. 
And of the sons of Immer: Hanani, and Zebadiah, and Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Jehiel, and Azariah. 
And of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, and Nethanael, and Gedaliah, and Salthas. 
And of the Levites: Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah, who was called Kelita, and Pethahiah, and Judah, and Jonah. 
Of the holy singers: Eliashib, Zaccur. 
Of the porters: Shallum, and Telem. 
Of Israel: of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, and Izziah, and Malchijah, and Mijamin, and Eleazar, and Asibias, and Benaiah. 
Of the sons of Ela: Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jezrielus, and Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Elijah. 
And of the sons of Zamoth; Eliadas, Eliashib, Othoniah, Jeremoth, and Zadab, and Zerdaiah. 
Of the sons of Bebai: Jehohanan, and Hananiah, and Zabbai, and Emathis. 
Of the sons of Mani: Olamus, Mamuchus, Adaiah, Jashub, and Sheal, and Jeremoth. 
And of the sons of Addi: Naathus, and Moossias, Laccunus, and Naidus, and Bescaspasmys, and Sesthel, Belnuus, and Manasseas. 
And of the sons of Annan: Elionas, and Asaias, and Melchias, and Sabbaias, and Simon Chosamaeus. 
And of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, and Mattattah, and Eliphelet, and Manasseh, and Shimei. 
And of the sons of Bani: Jeremai, Momdius, Maerus, Joel, Mamdai, and Bedeiah, and Vaniah, Carabasion, and Eliashib, and Mamitanemus, Eliasis, Binnui, Elialis, Shimei, Shelemiah, Nethaniah: and of the sons of Ezora: Shashai, Azarel, Azael, Samatus, Zambris, Joseph. 
And of the sons of Nooma: Mazitias, Zabad, Iddo, Joel, Benaiah. 
All these had taken strange wives, and they put them away with their children. 
And the priests and Levites, and they that were of Israel, dwelt in Jerusalem, and in the country, on the new moon of the seventh month, and the children of Israel in their habitations. 
And the whole multitude were gathered together with one accord into the broad place before the porch of the temple toward the east: 
and they said unto Ezra the priest and reader, Bring the law of Moses, that was given of the Lord, the God of Israel. 
So Ezra the chief priest brought the law unto the whole multitude both of men and women, and to all the priests, to hear the law on the new moon of the seventh month. 
And he read in the broad place before the porch of the temple from morning unto midday, before both men and women; and all the multitude gave heed unto the law. 
And Ezra the priest and reader of the law stood up upon the pulpit of wood, which was made for that purpose. 
And there stood up by him Mattathiah, Shema, Ananias, Azariah, Uriah, Hezekiah, Baalsamus, upon the right hand: 
and upon his left hand, Pedaiah, Mishael, Malchijah, Lothasubus, Nabariah, Zechariah. 
Then took Ezra the book of the law before the multitude, and sat honorably in the first place before all. 
And when he opened the law, they stood all straight up. So Ezra blessed the Lord God Most High, the God of Sabaoth, Almighty. 
And all the people answered, Amen; and lifting up their hands they fell to the ground, and worshiped the Lord. 
Also Jeshua, Anniuth, Sherebiah, Jadinus, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maiannas, and Kelita, Azariah, and Jozabad, and Hanan, Pelaiah, the Levites, taught the law of the Lord, and read to the multitude the law of the Lord, making them withal to understand it. 
Then said Attharates unto Ezra the chief priest and reader, and to the Levites that taught the multitude, even to all, 
This day is holy unto the Lord; (now they all wept when they heard the law:) 
go then, and eat the fat, and drink the sweet, and send portions to them that have nothing; 
for the day is holy unto the Lord: and be not sorrowful; for the Lord will bring you to honor. 
So the Levites published all things to the people, saying, This day is holy; be not sorrowful. 
Then went they their way, every one to eat and drink, and make merry, and to give portions to them that had nothing, and to make great cheer; 
because they understood the words wherein they were instructed, and for which they had been assembled. 
