John.
Chapter 20.
On the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. 
Then she ran and came to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, who Jesus loved, and told them, “They’ve taken the Lord away, out of the tomb, and we don’t know where they’ve laid Him!” 
Then Peter and the other disciple went out, and were going to the tomb. 
They both ran together, and the other disciple outran Peter and came to the tomb first. 
Stooping down and looking in, He saw the strips of linen lying there, but he didn’t go in. 
Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb. He saw the strips of linen lying there, 
and the handkerchief that had been around His head, not lying with the strips of linen, but folded together in a place by itself. 
Then the other disciple, who came to the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed. 
For they still didn’t know the Scripture, that Jesus must rise again from the dead. 
Then the disciples went back to their own homes, 
but Mary stood outside by the tomb, weeping. As she wept, she stooped down and looked into the tomb. 
She saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had been lying, one at the head and the other at the feet. 
Then they asked her, “Woman, why are you weeping?” She answered them, “Because they have taken away my Lord, and I don’t know where they have laid Him.” 
Now when she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she didn’t know that it was Jesus. 
Jesus asked her, “Woman, why are you weeping? Who are you looking for?” She, supposing Him to be the gardener, said to Him, “Sir, if You have carried Him away, tell me where You’ve laid Him, and I will take Him away.” 
Jesus said to her, “Mary!” She turned and said to him, “Rhabbouni!” (which means Teacher). 
Jesus said to her, “Don’t touch me, because I haven’t yet ascended to my Father; but go to my brothers and tell them, ‘I am ascending to my Father and your Father, and to my God and your God.’” 
Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that He had told her these things. 
Then, that same first day of the week, at evening, although the doors were locked where the disciples were assembled (for fear of the Jews), Jesus came and stood in their midst. He said to them, “Peace be with you.” 
When He had said this, He showed them His hands and His side. Then the disciples rejoiced when they saw the Lord. 
So Jesus said to them again, “Peace be with you! As the Father has sent me, so I send you.” 
When he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, “Receive the Holy Spirit. 
If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you retain the sins of any, they are retained.” 
Now Thomas, called the Twin, one of the twelve, wasn’t with them when Jesus came. 
Therefore the other disciples were telling him, “We have seen the Lord!” But he told them, “Unless I see the imprint of the nails in His hands, put my finger into the nail prints, and put my hand into His side, I won’t believe.” 
After eight days, His disciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Jesus came, the doors having been locked, and stood in their midst, and said, “Peace be with you.” 
Then He told Thomas, “Put your finger here, and see my hands. Reach your hand here, and put it into my side. Don’t be doubting, but believing.” 
Thomas answered Him, “My Lord and my God!” 
Jesus told him, “Thomas, you have believed because you have seen me. Blessed are those who haven’t seen, and yet have believed.” 
Truly, Jesus also performed many other signs in the presence of the disciples, which aren’t written in this book, 
but these have been written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, God’s Son; and so that believing you may have life in His name. 
