John.
Chapter 12.
Six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was who had been dead, who He had raised from the dead. 
There they made Him a supper, and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of those reclining at the table with Him. 
Then Mary took a pound of very costly perfume of pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped His feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. 
Then one of Jesus’ disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, who was about to betray Him, said, 
“Why wasn’t this fragrant oil sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?” 
Now he said this, not because he was concerned about the poor, but because he was a thief, and since he had the money box, he used to steal from what was put into it. 
Jesus therefore said, “Leave her alone. She has kept this for the day of my burial. 
You will always have the poor among you, but you won’t always have me.” 
Then a great multitude of the Jews learned that He was there; and they came, not just for Jesus’ sake, but also so that they could see Lazarus, who He had raised from the dead. 
So the chief priests plotted to kill Lazarus too, 
because on account of him many of the Jews were going away, and were believing in Jesus. 
The next day, when a great multitude that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 
they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet Him, and shouted: “Hosanna! ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the LORD!’ The King of Israel!” 
Then Jesus, finding a young donkey, sat on it, as it is written: 
“Don’t be afraid, Daughter of Zion; look, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey’s colt.” 
His disciples didn’t understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about Him and that they had done these things to Him. 
So the crowd that had been with Him when He called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to testify. 
The crowd also met Him because they heard that He had done this sign. 
Then the Pharisees said among themselves, “You see that you are accomplishing nothing. Look, the whole world has gone after Him!” 
Now there were certain Greeks among those who came up to worship at the feast. 
Then they came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and told him, “Sir, we would like to see Jesus.” 
Philip came and told Andrew, then Andrew and Philip came and told Jesus. 
Jesus answered them, saying, “The time has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. 
Most assuredly, I tell you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone, but if it dies, it produces many grains. 
Anyone who loves their life will lose it, and anyone who hates their life in this world will keep it for eternal life. 
If anyone serves me, let them follow me; and where I am, there my servant will be also. If anyone serves me, my Father will honor them. 
“Now my soul has become troubled; and what will I say? ‘Father, save me from this time’? No, for this purpose I came to this time. 
Father, glorify Your name.” Then a voice came from Heaven, saying, “I have both glorified it and will glorify it again.” 
Therefore the people who stood by and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, “An angel has spoken to Him.” 
Jesus answered, “This voice hasn’t come for my sake, but for your sakes. 
Now judgment is upon this world. Now the ruler of this world will be cast out. 
And I, if I am lifted up from the Earth, will draw everyone to myself.” 
He was saying this to indicate the kind of death He was about to die. 
Therefore the crowd answered Him, “We have heard from the Law that the Christ is to remain forever, so how can You say, ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up’? Who is this Son of Man?” 
Jesus told them, “The light is with you for a little longer. Walk while you have the light, so that the darkness may not overtake you. If you walk in the darkness, you don’t know where you are going. 
Believe in the light while you have the light, so that you may become children of light.” After Jesus had said this, he departed and hid from them. 
Although He had performed so many signs in front of them, they still didn’t believe in Him, 
so that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spoke: “Lord, who has believed our report? And who has the arm of the LORD been revealed to?” 
Therefore they couldn’t believe, because Isaiah said again: 
“He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they see with their eyes, and understand with their hearts and turn — and I would heal them.” 
Isaiah said this because he saw Jesus’ glory and spoke about Him. 
Nevertheless, even many of the rulers believed in Him, but because of the Pharisees they weren’t confessing Him, for fear that they might be put out of the synagogue; 
because they sincerely loved men’s approval more than God’s approval. 
Jesus cried out and said, “Whoever believes in me doesn’t just believe in me, but in Him who sent me. 
Whoever sees me sees Him who sent me. 
I have come into the world as light, that everyone who believes in me should not stay in darkness. 
If anyone hears the words I speak, and doesn’t keep them, I don’t judge them; because I didn’t come to judge the world, but to save the world. 
Whoever rejects me, and doesn’t receive my sayings, has one who judges them. The words that I spoke are what will judge him at the last day. 
For I haven’t spoken on my own initiative, but the Father Himself who sent me has given me commandment, what to say, and what to speak. 
I know that His commandment is eternal life, so the things I speak, I speak just as the Father has told me.” 
