John.
Chapter 16.
“I have told you these things so that you may be kept from stumbling. 
They will put you out of the synagogues. Indeed, the time is coming that whoever kills you will think that they are serving God. 
They will do these things to you because they haven’t known the Father nor me. 
I have told you these things, so that when the time comes, you may remember that I told you about them. I didn’t tell you these things at the beginning, because I was with you. 
“Now I am going to Him who sent me, yet none of you asks me, ‘Where are you going?’ 
Instead, because I have told you these things, sorrow has filled your heart. 
Nevertheless, I tell you the truth: it’s to your advantage that I go away; because if I don’t go away, the Counselor won’t come to you; but if I go, I will send Him to you. 
When He has come, He will convict the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment: 
of sin, because they don’t believe in me; 
of righteousness, because I go to my Father and you see me no more; 
and of judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. 
“I still have many things to tell you, but you can’t bear them now. 
However, when the Spirit of truth has come, He will guide you into all truth. He won’t speak on His own, but whatever He hears He will speak. He will announce things to come. 
He will glorify me, because He will take from what is mine and reveal it to you. 
Everything that the Father has is mine. That is why I said that He will take from what is mine and reveal it to you. 
“In a little while, you won’t see me; and in a little while longer, you will see me again, because I go to the Father.” 
Then some of Jesus’ disciples said among themselves, “What does He mean by, ‘In a little while, and you won’t see me; and in a little while longer, you will see me, again;’ and, ‘because I go to the Father’?” 
They kept asking, “What does He mean by ‘a little while’? We don’t understand what He is saying.” 
Now Jesus knew that they wanted to ask Him, and He said to them, “Are you asking yourselves about what I said, ‘In a little while, and you won’t see me; and in a little while longer, you will see me, again’? 
Most assuredly, I tell you that you will weep and mourn, but the world will rejoice. You will be sad, but your sadness will be turned into joy. 
A woman in labor is in pain because her time has come; but as soon as she has given birth to the baby, she forgets the agony, for joy that a child has been born into the world. 
Therefore you have sorrow now, too, but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and nobody will take your joy away from you. 
“In that day you will ask me nothing. Most assuredly, I tell you, whatever you ask the Father in My name He will give you. 
Until now you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full. 
“I’ve told you these things in figures of speech, but the time is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but I will tell you plainly about the Father. 
In that day you will ask in my name. I don’t tell you that I’ll ask the Father for you, 
because the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from God. 
I came forth from the Father and have come into the world. Again, I am leaving the world and going to the Father.” 
His disciples said to Him, “See, now You are speaking plainly, and not in figures of speech! 
Now we are sure that You know everything, and don’t need anyone to question You. By this we believe that You came forth from God.” 
Jesus answered them, “Do you now believe? 
The time is coming, and indeed, has now come, that you will be scattered, each to his own home, and you will leave me all alone. Yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. 
I have told you these things so that you may have peace in me. You will have trouble in the world, but cheer up! I have overcome the world.” 
