John.
Chapter 17.
After Jesus said these things, He looked toward Heaven, and said: “Father, the time has come. Glorify Your Son, so that Your Son may also glorify You, 
as You have given Him authority over all flesh, that He should give eternal life to as many as You have given Him. 
This is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ who You have sent. 
I have glorified You on the Earth. I have finished the work which You have given me to do. 
Now, O Father, glorify me together with Yourself, with the glory which I had with You before the world existed. 
“I have revealed Your name to the people You’ve given me out of the world. They were Yours. You gave them to me, and they have kept Your word. 
Now they know that everything You’ve given me comes from You, 
for I have spoken to them the words You’ve given me. They have received Your words, and have come to know for certain that I came forth from You. They have believed that You sent me. 
It is for them I pray. I’m not praying for the world, but for those who You’ve given me, because they belong to You. 
All of mine are Yours, and Yours are mine. I am glorified in them. 
Now I am no longer in the world, but these are in the world. I am coming to You. Holy Father, keep through Your name those who You’ve given me, that they may be one just as we are one. 
I kept them in Your name while I was with them in the world. I have kept the people You gave me; and none of them is lost except the son of perdition, so that the Scripture might be fulfilled. 
Now I am coming to You, and I speak these things in the world, so that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. 
I have given them Your word. The world has hated them because they don’t belong to the world, just as I don’t belong to the world. 
I don’t pray that You should take them out of the world, but that You should keep them from the evil one. 
They don’t belong to the world, just as I don’t belong to the world. 
Sanctify them by Your truth. Your word is truth. 
As You sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. 
I sanctify myself for their sakes, so that they may also be sanctified by the truth. 
“I don’t pray for these alone, but also for those who will believe in me through their message, 
that they all may be one, as You, Father, are in me, and I in You. I pray that they also may be one in Us, so that the world may believe that You sent me. 
I have given them the glory which You gave me, that they may be one just as we are one: 
I in them and You in me. May they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that You sent me and have sincerely loved them even as You have sincerely loved me. 
Father, I desire that those You gave me may also be with me where I am, that they may see my glory which You’ve given me; because You sincerely loved me before the foundation of the world. 
O righteous Father! The world hasn’t known You, but I have always known You, and these have come to know that You sent me. 
I have declared to them Your name, and will continue to declare it, so that the sincere love with which You sincerely loved me may be in them, and I may be in them.” 
