John.
Chapter 21.
After these things, Jesus showed Himself to the disciples again, at the Sea of Tiberias. He showed Himself in the following way. 
Simon Peter, Thomas called the Twin, Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of His disciples were together. 
Simon Peter told them, “I’m going fishing.” They said to him, “We’ll go with you, too.” They went out immediately and got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing. 
Now when the morning had come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples didn’t know that it was Jesus. 
Therefore Jesus asked them, “Children, you don’t have any fish, do you?” “No,” they answered Him. 
He told them, “Cast the net on the right-hand side of the boat, and you’ll find some.” So, they cast the net, and then they were unable to haul it in because of the great number of fish. 
Therefore that disciple who Jesus sincerely loved told Peter, “It’s the Lord!” So when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put his outer garment on (for he had taken it off), and threw himself into the sea. 
The other disciples came in the little boat, for they weren’t far from land, but about two hundred cubits away, dragging the net full of fish. 
So when they came ashore, they saw a charcoal fire already burning, with fish and bread placed on it. 
Jesus told them, “Bring some of the fish that you just caught.” 
Simon Peter went up and dragged the net to land, full of one hundred fifty-three large fish. Although there were so many, the net wasn’t torn. 
Jesus said to them, “Come and eat breakfast.” Yet none of the disciples dared ask Him, “Who are You?” They knew that it was the Lord. 
Jesus then came and took the bread and gave it to them, and likewise the fish. 
This is now the third time that Jesus showed Himself to His disciples after He was raised from the dead. 
When they had eaten breakfast, Jesus asked Simon Peter, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you sincerely love me more than these?” He answered, “Yes, Lord. You know that I love You.” “Feed my lambs,” Jesus replied. 
He asked him a second time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you sincerely love me?” He answered, “Yes, Lord. You know that I love You.” “Shepherd my sheep,” He replied. 
He asked the third time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me?” Peter was grieved because He asked him the third time, “Do you love me?” He answered, “Lord, You know everything. You know that I love You.” “Feed My sheep,” Jesus replied. 
“Most assuredly, I tell you, when you were younger, you dressed yourself and walked where you wanted to; but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you don’t want to go.” 
He said this to indicate what kind of death he would glorify God with. When He had said this, He told Peter, “Follow me!” 
Then Peter, turning around, saw a disciple following. This was the disciple who Jesus sincerely loved, the one who had also leaned on Jesus’ breast at the supper and asked, “Lord, who is going to betray You?” 
Peter therefore, seeing him, asked Jesus, “Lord, what about this man?” 
Jesus answered, “If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me!” 
Because of this answer, the rumor spread among the brothers that this disciple wouldn’t die, but Jesus didn’t tell him that he wouldn’t die, but only, “If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you?” 
This is the disciple who testifies about these things, and who wrote these things. We know that his testimony is true. 
There are also many other things that Jesus did, which if they were written one by one, I suppose that even the world itself couldn’t contain the books that would be written. Amen. 
