Revelation.
Chapter 19.
After this I heard what sounded like the noise of an enormous crowd in heaven, shouting, “Hallelujah! Salvation, glory, and power describe our God, 
because his judgments are true and right, for he has condemned the infamous prostitute who corrupted the earth with her immorality, and has brought her to justice for her murders of his servants.” 
Again they shouted, “Hallelujah! The smoke from her destruction ascends for ever and ever.” 
The twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God who sits on the throne. “Amen! Hallelujah!” they shouted. 
A voice spoke from the throne that said, “Praise our God, everyone who serves him and respects him, from the smallest to the greatest.” 
Then I heard what sounded like the noise of an enormous crowd, like rushing water and loud thunder, shouting, “Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the All-powerful One, he reigns! 
Let's celebrate and be glad and give him the glory, because the wedding day of the Lamb has arrived, and his bride has prepared herself.” 
She was given fine linen to wear, white and clean. (Fine linen represents the good works of believers.) 
The angel told me, “Write this down: How happy are those who are invited to the Lamb's wedding feast.” Then he said to me, “These are God's true words.” 
I fell down at his feet to worship him. He told me, “Don't do that! I am one of God's servants just as you are, and those who accept Jesus' testimony. Worship God, for Jesus' testimony is the prophetic spirit.” 
I saw heaven was opened. A white horse was standing there. Its rider was called Trustworthy and True. He is right when he judges, and he is right when he makes war. 
His eyes were like flaming fire. On his head were many crowns. He had a name written on him which no one but he himself knows. 
He wore a robe covered in blood, and his name is The Word of God. 
Heaven's armies were following him, riding on white horses and clothed in fine linen, white and clean. 
From his mouth came a sharp sword to strike the nations. He will rule them with an iron rod, and he himself treads the winepress of the All-powerful God's judgment. 
Written on his robe and on his thigh was the name, King of kings and Lord of lords. 
I saw an angel standing in the sun, shouting in a loud voice to all the birds that fly in the sky, “Come and gather together for God's great feast. 
Here you can eat the flesh of the dead: kings, leaders, and powerful men, as well as that of horses and their riders, the flesh of all people, free and slave, great and small.” 
I saw the beast and the kings of the earth gathered together to wage war on the one sitting on the horse and his army. 
The beast was captured, along with the false prophet who performed miracles in his presence (by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped the beast's image). Both of them were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur. 
The rest were killed with the sword of the one sitting on the horse—the sword that came out of his mouth. All the birds gorged themselves on their flesh. 
