1 Peter.
Chapter 3.
Wives, accept your husbands' authority in the same way, so that if some husbands refuse to accept the word, they may still be won over without words by the way you behave, 
recognizing your pure and reverent behavior. 
Don't focus on outward attractiveness—hairstyles, gold jewelry, or fashionable clothes— 
instead let it come from within, the lasting attractiveness of a gentle and peaceful spirit on the inside. That's what God values. 
This is how holy women of the past who put their confidence in God made themselves beautiful, yielding to their husbands, 
like Sarah who obeyed Abraham, and called him “lord.” You are her daughters if you do what's good and right and are not intimidated. 
Husbands, in just the same way, be considerate to your wives as you live together with them. Though she may not be as strong as you are, you should honor her since she will inherit equally with you God's gift of life. Make sure to do this so nothing will get in the way of your prayers. 
Finally, you should all have the same attitude. Be sympathetic and love each other. Be compassionate, and humble. 
Don't pay back evil for evil, or retaliate when you're abused, instead you should give a blessing—because that's what you were called to do, so you could gain a blessing yourself. 
Remember: “Those who want to love life, and to see good days, must refrain from speaking evil, and not tell lies. 
Turn away from evil and do good; search for peace—run after it! 
For God sees those who do right, and he hears their prayers, but he opposes those who do evil.” 
Who will harm you if you're keen to do good? 
For even if you suffer for doing what's right, you're still better off. Don't be scared over what people threaten, don't worry about it; 
just keep your mind focused on Christ as Lord. Always be ready to explain to anyone who asks you the reason for the hope that you have. Do this in a gentle and respectful way. 
Make sure your conscience is clear, so that if anyone makes accusations against you, they will be embarrassed for speaking badly about the good way you live your life in Christ. 
It's certainly better to suffer for doing good, (if that's what God wants), than to suffer for doing wrong! 
Jesus died because of sins, once and for all, the one who is completely true and good and right died for those who are bad, so that he could bring you to God. He was put to death in the body, but he came to life in the spirit. 
He went to speak to those “imprisoned” 
that refused to believe, when God patiently waited in the time of Noah while the ark was being built. Only a few—in fact eight people—were saved “through water.” 
This water symbolizes baptism that now saves you, not by washing off dirt from your body, but as a positive response to God that comes from a clear conscience. It is the resurrection of Jesus Christ that makes your salvation possible. 
Having ascended to heaven, he stands at God's right hand, with angels, authorities, and powers placed under his control. 
