Exodus.
Chapter 37.
Bezalel made the Ark of acacia wood measuring two and a half cubits long by a cubit and a half wide by one and a half cubits high. 
He covered it with pure gold on the inside and the outside, and made a gold trim to go around it. 
He cast four gold rings and attached them to its four feet, two on one side and two on the other. 
He made poles of acacia wood and covered them with gold. 
He placed the poles into the rings on the sides of the Ark, so it could be carried. 
He made the atonement cover of pure gold, two and a half cubits long by a cubit and a half wide. 
He made two cherubim of hammered gold for the ends of the atonement cover, 
and put one cherub on each end. All of this was made from one piece of gold. 
The cherubim were designed with spread wings pointing upward, covering the atonement cover. The cherubim were placed facing each another, looking down towards the atonement cover. 
Then he made the table of acacia wood two cubits long by a cubit wide by a cubit and a half high. 
He covered it with pure gold and made a gold trim to go around it. 
He made a border around it the width of a hand and put a gold trim on the border. 
He cast four gold rings for the table and attached them to the four corners of the table by the legs. 
The rings were close to the border to hold the poles used to carry the table. 
He made the poles of acacia wood for carrying the table and covered them with gold. 
He made utensils for the table from pure gold: plates and dishes, bowls and pitchers for pouring out drink offerings. 
He made the lampstand of pure, hammered gold. The whole of it was made of one piece—its base, shaft, cups, buds, and flowers. 
It had six branches coming out of the sides of the lampstand, three on each side. It had three cups shaped like almond flowers on the first branch, each with buds and petals, three on the next branch. 
Each of six branches that came out had three cups shaped like almond flowers, all complete with buds and petals. 
On the main shaft of the lampstand he made four cups shaped like almond flowers, complete with buds and petals. 
On the six branches that came out of it, he placed a bud under the first pair of branches, a bud under the second pair, and a bud under the third pair. 
The buds and branches are to be made with the lampstand as one piece, hammered out of pure gold. 
He made seven lamps, as well as wick tongs and their trays of pure gold. 
The lampstand and all these utensils required a talent of pure gold. 
He made the altar for burning incense from acacia wood. It was square, measuring a cubit by a cubit, by two cubits high, with horns on its corners that were all one piece with the altar. 
He covered its top, its side, and its horns with pure gold, and made a gold trim to go all around it. 
He made two gold rings for the altar and attached them below the trim, two on both sides, to hold the poles to carry it. 
He made the poles of acacia wood and covered them with gold. 
He made the holy anointing oil and the pure, aromatic incense like the product of an expert perfumer. 
