Genesis.
Chapter 46.
So Israel left for Egypt with everything he had. When he arrived at Beersheba he offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac. 
During the night God spoke to Israel in a vision. “Jacob! Jacob!” he called. “I'm here,” he replied. 
“I am God, the God of your father! Don't be afraid to go to Egypt, because I will turn you and your descendants into a great nation. 
I will go to Egypt with you, and I promise to bring you back again. And Joseph will personally close your eyes when you die.” 
Then Jacob left Beersheba. His sons took him, their children, and their wives to Egypt using the wagons Pharaoh had sent. 
They also took with them all their livestock and all the personal belongings they had accumulated in the country of Canaan. So Jacob and everyone in his extended family went to Egypt, 
including all his sons and grandsons, daughters and granddaughters. 
The following is the genealogy of Israel and his sons who went to Egypt: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn. 
The sons of Reuben: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. 
The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul the son of a woman from Canaan. 
The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, Shelah, Perez, and Zerah. However, Er and Onan died in Canaan. The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul. 
The sons of Issachar: Tola, Puvah, Job, and Shimron. 
The sons of Zebulun: Sered, Elon, and Jahleel. 
These are the sons Leah had for Jacob in Paddan-aram, as well as his daughter Dinah. The total number of sons and daughters and grandchildren was thirty-three. 
The sons of Gad: Ziphion, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi, and Areli. 
The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, and their sister Serah. The sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel. 
These are the sons of Jacob Zilpah had, the servant given by Laban to his daughter Leah, a total of sixteen children and grandchildren. 
The sons of Jacob's wife Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin. 
The sons Joseph had in the land of Egypt by Asenath, daughter of Potiphera, priest of On: Manasseh and Ephraim. 
The sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim, and Ard. 
These are the sons that Rachel had for Jacob, a total of fourteen children and grandchildren. 
The son of Dan: Hushim. 
The sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem. 
These are the sons of Jacob that Bilhah had, the servant given by Laban to his daughter Rachel, a total of seven children and grandchildren. 
All those who were part of Jacob's family who came to Egypt (his blood relatives, apart from wives of Jacob's sons) totaled sixty-six. 
Including the two sons Joseph had in Egypt, the total number of Jacob's family who were in Egypt was seventy. 
Jacob sent Judah on ahead to meet Joseph and find out the way to Goshen. When they arrived in Goshen, 
Joseph ordered his chariot made ready and went to meet his father Israel there. As soon as he arrived, he hugged his father and wept for a long time. 
“Now I can die in peace because I have seen your face again and know you're still alive,” Israel told Joseph. 
Joseph told his brothers and his father's household, “I'm going to go and report to Pharaoh and tell him, ‘My brothers and my father's household have arrived from the country of Canaan to join me. 
They are shepherds and keep livestock. They have brought with them their flocks and herds and all their possessions.’ 
When Pharaoh calls for you and asks you, ‘What work do you do?’ 
tell him, ‘Your servants have looked after livestock since we were children, both us and our fathers before us.’ That way you'll be able to live here in Goshen, because Egyptians look down on shepherds.” 
