Isaiah.
Chapter 3.
Take a look! The Lord, the Lord Almighty, is going to take away from Jerusalem and from Judah everything they rely on—all their stocks of food and all means of supplying water, 
their strong fighters and soldiers, leaders and prophets, fortune-tellers and elders, 
army captains, state officials, counselors, craftsmen, masters of magic, and experts in the occult. 
I will give them boys as their leaders who will rule over them in childish ways. 
People will mistreat one another, person against person, neighbor against neighbor; the young will assault the old, and the dregs of society will attack those who are reputable. 
A man will grab hold of one of his brothers in their father's house, and tell him, “You've got a coat, you can be our leader! Take over the running of this pile of ruins!” 
But immediately his brother will shout back, “No, not me! I can't take care of this family's problems. In my house I don't have food or clothes. Don't put me in charge as your leader!” 
For Jerusalem has collapsed and Judah has fallen because of what they said and did in opposition to the Lord, rebelling right in front of him. 
The look on their faces proves what they've done, proclaiming their sin just like Sodom—they don't even bother to try and hide it! Tragedy is coming to them! They have brought disaster down upon themselves. 
Tell those who live right that they will be fine, for they will be happy to receive the reward for what they have done. 
But tragedy comes to the wicked, for what they did will be done to them. 
Leaders who act in childish ways mistreat my people; women rule over them. My people, your leaders are misleading you, confusing you about which way to go. 
The Lord stands up to prosecute his case. The Lord stands up to judge the people. 
The Lord comes to give his judgment against the elders and leaders of his people: You are the ones who have destroyed my vineyard; your houses are full with everything you've stolen from the poor. 
Why have you crushed my people? Why have you ground the faces of the poor into the dirt? the Lord Almighty demands to know. 
The Lord says, The women of Zion are so conceited, walking with their heads held high, giving flirty glances, tripping along with their ankle bracelets jingling. 
So the Lord will make their heads full of scabs, and the Lord will expose their private parts. 
At that time the Lord will remove their fine ornaments: ankle bracelets, headbands, crescent necklaces, 
pendant earrings, bracelets, veils, 
headdresses, bangles, sashes, perfume holders, lucky charms, 
rings, nose rings, 
festival clothes, gowns, cloaks, handbags, 
hand mirrors, fine linen underwear, head wraps, and shawls. 
What will happen is that instead of smelling of perfume, she will stink. Instead of a wearing a sash, she will be tied with a rope. Instead of styled hair, she will be bald. Instead of fine clothes, she will wear sackcloth. Instead of looking beautiful, she will be shamed. 
Your men will be killed by the sword; your soldiers will die in battle. 
The gates of Zion will cry and mourn. The city will be like a banished woman sitting on the ground. 
