1 Chronicles.
Chapter 7.
The sons of Issachar: Tola, Puah, Jashub and Shimron—a total of four. 
The sons of Tola: Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam, and Samuel—leaders of their families. In the time of David, the descendants of Tola listed in their genealogy a total of 22,600 warriors. 
The son of Uzzi: Izrahiah. The sons of Izrahiah: Michael, Obadiah, Joel, and Isshiah. All five were family heads. 
They had many wives and sons and so in their genealogy they list 36,000 battle-ready fighting men. 
The relatives who were warriors belonging to all the families of Issachar, according to their genealogy, were 87,000 in total. 
Three sons of Benjamin: Bela, Beker, and Jediael. 
The sons of Bela: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth, and Iri, leaders of their families—a total of five. They had 22,034 fighting men according to their genealogy. 
The sons of Beker: Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth, and Alemeth. These were all the sons of Beker. 
Their genealogy included the family heads and 20,200 fighting men. 
The son of Jediael: Bilhan. The sons of Bilhan: Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Kenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish, and Ahishahar. 
All these sons of Jediael were family heads. They had 17,200 battle-ready warriors. 
Shuppim and Huppim were sons of Ir, and Hushim was the son of Aher. 
The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, Guni, Jezer, and Shallum—the descendants of Bilhah. 
The sons of Manasseh: Asriel whose mother was his Aramean concubine. She was also the mother of Makir, the father of Gilead. 
Makir found a wife for Huppim and a wife for Shuppim. His sister's name was Maacah. The second was called Zelophehad. She only had daughters. 
Maacah, Makir's wife, had a son and called him Peresh. His brother was called Sheresh, and his sons were Ulam and Rakem. 
The son of Ulam: Bedan. These were all the sons of Gilead, son of Makir, son of Manasseh. 
His sister Hammoleketh was the mother of Ishhod, Abiezer, and Mahlah. 
The sons of Shemida were: Ahian, Shechem, Likhi, and Aniam. 
The descendants of Ephraim: Shuthelah, Bered his son, Tahath his son, Eleadah his son, Tahath his son, 
Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son. Ezer and Elead were killed by the men who were living in Gath when they went there to try and steal their livestock. 
Their father Ephraim mourned for them a long time, and his relatives came to comfort him. 
Then he slept with his wife again. She became pregnant and gave birth to a son, whom he named him Beriah because of this family tragedy. 
Sheerah, his daughter, founded Lower and Upper Beth Horon together with Uzzen Sheerah. 
Rephah was his son, Resheph his son, Telah his son, Tahan his son, 
Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son, 
Nun his son and Joshua his son. 
The land they owned and the places they lived included Bethel and nearby towns, from Naaran to the east to Gezer and its towns to the west, and Shechem and its towns up to Ayyah and its towns. 
On the border with Manasseh were Beth Shan, Taanach, Megiddo, and Dor, along with their towns. These were the towns where the descendants of Joseph son of Israel lived. 
The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, and Beriah. Their sister was Serah. 
The sons of Beriah: Heber and Malkiel, the father of Birzaith. 
Heber was the father of Japhlet, Shomer, and Hotham, and of their sister Shua. 
The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath. These were all the sons of Japhlet. 
The sons of Shomer: Ahi, Rohgah, Hubbah, and Aram. 
The sons of his brother Helem: Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal. 
The sons of Zophah: Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah, 
Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Beera. 
The sons of Jether: Jephunneh, Pispah, and Ara. 
The sons of Ulla: Arah, Hanniel, and Rizia. 
These were all descendants of Asher—family heads, proven men, strong warriors, and great leaders. According to their genealogy, they had 26,000 battle-ready warriors. 
