1 Chronicles.
Chapter 11.
All the Israelites gathered to meet with David in Hebron. They told him, “We are your flesh and blood. 
In recent times, even though Saul was king, you were the real leader of Israel. The Lord your God told you, ‘You will be the shepherd of my people, and you will be the leader of my people Israel.’” 
All the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and David made a solemn agreement with them before the Lord. There they anointed David as king of Israel, as the Lord had promised through Samuel. 
Then David and all the Israelites went to Jerusalem (formerly known as Jebus) where the Jebusites lived. 
The Jebusites told David, “You will not enter here!” But David did capture the fortress of Zion, now known as the City of David. 
David had said, “Whoever is first to attack the Jebusites will be my commander-in-chief.” Since Joab, son of Zeruiah, was the first, he became commander-in-chief. 
David decided to love in the fortress, which is why they named it after him the City of David. 
He built up the city all around it, from the Millo in a circuit all around, while Joab repaired the rest of the city. 
David became more and more powerful, for the Lord Almighty was with him. 
These were the leaders of David's powerful warriors who, along with all the Israelites, gave him strong support in becoming king, just as the Lord had promised would happen to Israel. 
This is the list of the leading warriors who supported David: Jashobeam, son of Hachmoni, leader of the Three. Using his spear, he once killed 300 men in a single battle. 
After him came Eleazar, son of Dodo the Ahohite, one of the Three leading warriors. 
He was with David at Pas-dammin when the Philistines gathered for battle that took place in a field full of barley. The Israelite army ran away when the Philistines attacked, 
but David and Eleazar took a stand in the middle of the field, defending their ground and killing the Philistines. The Lord saved them by giving them a great victory. 
Another time, the Three, who were part of the Thirty leading warriors, went down to meet David when he was at the cave of Adullam. The Philistine army was camped in the valley of Rephaim. 
At the time David was in the stronghold, and the Philistine garrison was in Bethlehem. 
David was feeling really thirsty, and he said, “If only someone could bring me a drink of water from the well beside the entrance gate to Bethlehem!” 
The Three broke through the Philistine defenses, took some water from the well at Bethelehem's gate, and brought it back to David. But David refused to drink it, and poured it out as an offering to the Lord. 
“God forbid that I should do this!” he said. “It would be like drinking the blood of these men who risked their lives! They risked their lives to bring me a drink.” So he did not drink it. This is just some of the things the Three leading warriors did. 
Abishai, Joab's brother, was leader of the second Three. Using his spear, he once killed 300 men, and became famous among the Three. 
He was the most highly regarded of the Three and was their commander, though he was not one of the first Three. 
Benaiah, son of Jehoiada, a strong warrior from Kabzeel, did many amazing things. He killed two sons of Ariel of Moab. He also went after a lion into a pit in the snow and killed it. 
Another time he killed an Egyptian—a huge man who stood seven foot six inches tall. The Egyptian had a spear whose shaft was as thick as a weaver's rod. Benaiah attacked him with just a club, but he was able to grab the spear from the Egyptian's hand, and killed him with his own spear. 
These were the kind of things Benaiah did that made him as famous as the Three leading warriors. 
He was the most highly regarded of the Thirty, though he was not one of the Three. David put him in charge of his personal bodyguard. 
Other leading warriors were: Asahel, Joab's brother; Elhanan, son of Dodo, from Bethlehem; 
Shammoth the Harorite; Helez the Pelonite; 
Ira, son of Ikkesh from Tekoa; Abiezer from Anathoth; 
Sibbecai the Hushathite; Ilai the Ahohite; 
Maharai of Netophah; Heled, son of Baanah of Netophah; 
Ithai, son of Ribai from Gibeah of the Benjamites; Benaiah the Pirathonite; 
Hurai from the valleys of Gaash; Abiel the Arbathite; 
Azmaveth the Baharumite; Eliahba the Shaalbonite; 
the sons of Hashem the Gizonite; Jonathan, son of Shagee the Hararite; 
Ahiam, son of Sachar the Hararite; Eliphal, son of Ur; 
Hepher the Mecherathite; Ahijah the Pelonite; 
Hezro the Carmelite; Naarai, son of Ezbai; 
Joel the Nathan's brother; Mibhar, son of Hagri; 
Zelek the Ammonite; Naharai the Beerothite; Joab's armor-bearer, son of Zeruiah; 
Ira the Ithrite; Gareb the Ithrite; 
Uriah the Hittite; Zabad son of Ahlai; 
Adina, son of Shiza the Reubenite, leader of the Reubenites, and the thirty who were with him; 
Hanan, son of Maacah; Joshaphat the Mithnite; 
Uzzia the Ashterathite; Shama and Jeiel, the sons of Hotham the Aroerite; 
Jediael, son of Shimri, and his brother, Joha the Tizite; 
Eliel the Mahavite; Jeribai and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam; Ithmah the Moabite; 
Eliel; Obed; and Jaasiel the Mezobaite. 
