Matthew.
Chapter 2.
After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea during the reign of King Herod, wise men came from the east to Jerusalem. 
“Where is the King of the Jews who has been born?” they asked. “We saw his star in the east and we've come to worship him.” 
When King Herod heard about it, he was very disturbed, and the whole of Jerusalem with him. 
Herod summoned all the chief priests and religious teachers of the people, and asked them where the Messiah was supposed to be born. 
“Bethlehem in Judea,” they told him, “for that's what the prophet wrote: 
‘Bethlehem in the land of Judea, you are certainly not the least important of Judah's leading cities, for a leader will come from you who will be the shepherd for my people Israel.’” 
Then Herod called the wise men and met with them in private and found out from them exactly when the star appeared. 
He sent them to Bethlehem, telling them, “When you get there, search for the child. Once you find him let me know so that I can come and worship him too.” 
After they had heard what the king had to say they went on their way, and the star which they had seen in the east led them until it stopped right above the place where the child was. 
When they saw the star they couldn't contain their happiness! 
They went into the house and saw the child with Mary his mother. They bowed and worshiped him. Then they opened their bags of treasure and presented him with gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. 
Warned by a dream not to return to Herod, they left for their own country by a different route. 
After they'd left, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, and told him, “Get up, and take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt. Remain there until I tell you, because Herod is going to search for the child to kill him.” 
So Joseph got up and took the boy and his mother, and left during the night for Egypt. 
They stayed there until Herod's death. This fulfilled what the Lord said through the prophet, “I called my son out of Egypt.” 
When Herod realized he'd been fooled by the wise men, he got very angry. He sent men to kill all the young boys in Bethlehem and the regions nearby who were two years old and under. This was based on the time frame he'd discovered from the wise men. 
In this way Jeremiah's prophecy was fulfilled: 
“The sound of terrible weeping and mourning was heard in Rama, Rachel crying for her children. They are dead, and she can't be comforted.” 
After Herod died the angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, and told him, 
“Get up! Take the child and his mother, and return to the land of Israel, because those who were trying to kill the child are dead.” 
So Joseph got up and took the boy and his mother, and returned to the land of Israel. 
But Joseph was afraid to go there after he learned that Archelaus had succeeded his father Herod as king of Judea. Warned in a dream, Joseph went to the Galilee area 
and settled down in Nazareth. This fulfilled what the prophets had said, “He will be called a Nazarene.” 
