Colossians.
Chapter 4.
You masters, treat your servants in a way that is right and fair, recognizing that you too have a Master in heaven. 
Remember to keep on praying, with an alert and thankful mind! 
Pray for us too that God may open a door of opportunity to spread the message, to tell about the revealed mystery of Christ—which is the reason I'm here in prison. 
Pray that I may make it as clear as I should when I speak. 
Behave wisely with outsiders, making the best use of every opportunity. 
Always be gracious when you speak. Make sure it's in good taste, and think about how best to answer everyone. 
Tychicus will tell you all about what's happening to me. He's a dear brother, a trustworthy minister and co-worker in the Lord. 
I'm sending him to you for this very reason—so that you'll know how things are with me and this will cheer you up. 
Onesimus is going with him too, a trusted and dear brother, who's one of you. They'll explain to you everything that's going on here. 
Aristarchus who's with me here in prison sends his best wishes; likewise Mark, Barnabas' cousin (you've already had instructions to welcome him if he visits you), 
and Jesus—also called Justus—who are the only Jewish Christians among those working with me here for the kingdom of God, men who have been a great help to me. 
Epaphras who is one of you and a servant of Christ Jesus, sends his greetings. He's always passionate in his prayers on your behalf, praying that you'll stand firm as grown-up Christians, totally convinced about everything as God would want. 
For the record I can tell you that he's done a lot for you, and for those in Laodicea and Hierapolis as well. 
Luke, our dear doctor, and Demas also send their best. 
Greet the believers that are in Laodicea—Nympha too, and the church that meets in her house. 
And when this letter has been read to you, make sure it's read to the church in Laodicea too, and that you also read the letter sent to Laodicea. 
Tell Archippus, “See that you follow through in doing the ministry God gave you.” 
I Paul write my closing greetings with my own hand. Remember I'm in prison. Grace be with you. 
