Genesis.
Chapter 33.
Jacob saw Esau in the distance, coming towards him with four hundred men. So he split up the children between Leah, Rachel and the two personal maids. 
He placed the two personal maids with their children first, then Leah and her children, and Rachel and Joseph last. 
Then Jacob went ahead of them and bowed low to the ground seven times before approaching his brother. 
Esau ran over to him and hugged him. He put his arms around his neck and kissed him. The two of them wept. 
Then Esau looked around at the women and children. “Who are these people with you?” he asked. “They are the children God graciously gave your servant,” Jacob replied. 
The personal maids and their children came over and bowed down. 
Then Leah and her children came over and bowed down. Lastly Joseph and Rachel came over and bowed down. 
“What were all the livestock for that I met on the way?” Esau asked. “They're a gift to you my lord so you'd treat me well,” Jacob answered. 
“I have more than enough, my brother! You keep what you have,” said Esau. 
“No, please!” Jacob insisted. “If you're happy with me, then please accept the gift I'm giving you. Now I've seen your face again it's like seeing the face of God, and you have welcomed me so kindly! 
Please take the gift I've brought to you because God has treated me so well and I have so much.” So Esau accepted it. 
“Let's get on our way,” Esau said. “I'll go ahead of you.” 
“My lord can see that the children are weak,” Jacob responded. “Also, the goats, sheep, and cattle are nursing their young, and if I push them too hard, they'll all die. 
You go on, my lord, and your servant will come along slowly, walking with the children, and I'll meet you at Seir.” 
“Fine, but let me leave some of my men with you,” said Esau. “You're very kind, but there's no need to do that,” Jacob replied. 
So Esau started on his way back to Seir that day. 
But Jacob headed to Succoth, where he built himself a house and shelters for the livestock. That's why the place is called Succoth. 
Later Jacob continued his journey from Paddan-aram. He arrived safely at Shechem in the country of Canaan where he camped outside the town. 
He bought the plot of ground where he was camping from the sons of Hamor, the founder of Shechem, for 100 pieces of money. 
He built an altar there and called it El-Elohe-Israel. 
