Leviticus.
Chapter 14.
The Lord told Moses, 
“These are the regulations regarding those who have had a skin disease when they are declared clean having been brought to the priest. 
The priest must go outside the camp and inspect the person. If the skin disease has healed, 
the priest shall have two ceremonially clean birds brought to him, also some cedar wood, crimson thread, and hyssop, on behalf of the person to be made clean. 
The priest will order one of the birds to be killed over a clay pot filled with fresh water. 
He will take the live bird together with the cedar wood, crimson thread, and hyssop, and dip them in the blood of the bird that was killed over the fresh water. 
He will use the blood to sprinkle seven times the person being made clean of the skin disease. Then the priest will declare them clean and let the live bird fly away. 
The one being made clean must wash their clothes, shave off all their hair, and wash themselves with water; then they will be will be ceremonially clean. After that they can enter the camp, but they must stay outside their tent for seven days. 
On the seventh day they must shave off all their hair: their head, beard, eyebrows, and the rest of their hair. They must wash their clothes and wash themselves with water, and they will be clean. 
On the eighth day they are to bring two male lambs and one female lamb, all a year old and without defects; a grain offering consisting of three-tenths of an ephah of best flour mixed with olive oil, and one ‘log’ of olive oil. 
The priest who conducts the ceremony will present the person to be made clean to the Lord, along with these offerings, at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
The priest will take one of the male lambs and present it as a guilt offering, together with the log of olive oil; and he will wave them before the Lord as a wave offering. 
Then he will kill the lamb near the sanctuary where the sin offering and burnt offering are killed. The sin offering and the guilt offering belong to the priest; it is most holy. 
The priest will put some of the blood from the guilt offering on their right earlobe, on their right thumb, and on the big toe of their right foot of the person being made clean. 
The priest will pour some of the log of olive oil into his left palm, 
dip his right index finger in it, and using his finger, sprinkle some of the olive oil seven times before the Lord. 
The priest will then use some of the rest of the olive oil remaining in his palm on the person being made clean, and put it on top of the blood of the guilt offering. This will be on their right earlobe, on their right thumb, and on the big toe of their right foot, on top of the blood of the guilt offering. 
What is left of the olive oil in his palm, the priest will put on the head of the person being made clean and then make them right before the Lord. 
The priest will sacrifice the sin offering to make the person right, so that they are now clean from their uncleanness. After that, the priest will kill the burnt offering 
and offer it on the altar, together with the grain offering, to make them right, and they will be clean. 
But those who are poor and can't afford these offerings must bring one male lamb as a guilt offering to be waved to make them right, together with a tenth an ephah of best flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering, a log of olive oil, 
and two turtledoves or two young pigeons, whichever they can afford. One is to be used as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering. 
On the eighth day they are to take them to the priest at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting before the Lord so they can be made clean. 
The priest will take the lamb for the guilt offering, together with the log of olive oil, and wave them as a wave offering before the Lord. 
After he kills the lamb for the guilt offering, the priest will take some of the blood of the guilt offering and put it on the right earlobe of the one being made clean, on their right thumb, and on the big toe of their right foot. 
Then the priest will pour some of the olive oil into his left palm 
and using his right index finger, will sprinkle some of the oil from his left palm seven times before the Lord. 
The priest shall also put some of the olive oil in his palm on the right earlobe of the person being made clean, on their right thumb, and on the big toe of his right foot, in the same places as the blood of the guilt offering. 
What is left of the olive oil in his palm, the priest will put on the head of the person being made clean and then make them right before the Lord. 
Then they must sacrifice one of the turtledoves or young pigeons, whichever they can afford, 
one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering, along with the grain offering. This is how the priest will make the person right and clean before the Lord. 
These are the regulations for those who have a skin disease and can't afford the usual offerings to make people clean.” 
Then the Lord told Moses and Aaron, 
“When you get to Canaan, the land I'm giving you to own, if I put some mold into a house there and contaminate it, 
the owner of the house must come and tell the priest, ‘It seems my house has something like mold.’ 
The priest must order the house to be emptied before he goes in to inspect the mold, so that nothing in the house will be declared unclean. Once that's done, the priest is to go in and inspect the house. 
He will examine the house and see whether the mold on the walls is made up of green or red indentations that go under the surface, 
the priest shall go out of door and seal the house for seven days. 
On the seventh day the priest will return and inspect the house again. If the mold has spread on the walls, 
he will order the affected stones to be removed and disposed of in an unclean area outside the town. 
Then he will order the all the plaster inside of the house to be scraped off and dumped in an unclean area outside the town. 
Different stones must be used to replace the ones removed, and new plaster will be needed replaster the house. 
If the mold returns and affects the house again even after the stones have been removed and the house has been scraped and replastered, 
the priest must come and inspect it. If he sees the mold has spread in the house, it is a harmful mold; the house is unclean. 
It must be demolished, and all its stones, timbers, and plaster must be taken and dumped in an unclean area outside the town. 
Anyone who goes into the house during any time that it is sealed will be unclean until the evening. 
Anyone who sleeps or eats in the house must wash their clothes. 
However, if when the priest comes and inspects it and finds that the mold hasn't reappeared after the house was replastered, he shall declare the house clean because the mold is gone. 
He will bring two birds, cedar wood, crimson thread, and hyssop to make the house clean. 
He will kill one of the birds over a clay pot filled with fresh water. 
He will dip the live bird, the cedar wood, crimson thread, and hyssop, in the blood of the bird that was killed and the fresh water, and sprinkle the house seven times. 
He will make the house clean with the bird's blood, the fresh water, the live bird, the cedar wood, the hyssop, and the crimson thread. 
Then he will let the live bird fly away outside the town. This is how he will make the house right, and it will be clean. 
These are the regulations for any infectious skin disease, for a scabby infection, 
for mold on clothing and in a house, 
as well as for a swelling, rash, or spot. 
They are used to decide whether something is clean or unclean. These are the regulations regarding skin diseases and mold.” 
