1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 5.
Brothers and sisters, we don't need to write anything to you about prophetic times and dates. 
You yourselves know very well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. 
When people talk about peace and security suddenly they will be completely ruined. It will be just like the sudden onset of childbirth, and they certainly won't escape. 
But you, brothers and sisters, are not in the dark about this so that you won't be caught by surprise when the Day of Judgment arrives suddenly like a thief. 
For you are all children of light and children of the day. We don't belong to the night or to darkness. 
So then we shouldn't be sleeping like everybody else—we should stay awake and keep ourselves clear-headed. 
For it's during the night that people sleep; and it's at night that they get drunk. 
But since we belong to the day we should keep our heads clear, strapping on the breastplate of trust and love, and putting on as a helmet the hope of salvation. 
For God hasn't placed us in a position to be punished, but has reserved us for salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. 
He's the one who died for us so that whether we're alive or dead we shall live together with him. 
So encourage and strengthen one another, just as you are doing. 
Brothers and sisters, we're asking you to respect those who work with you, who lead you in the Lord and teach you. 
You should value them highly in love for the work they do. Live in peace with each other. 
We urge you, brothers and sisters, to warn those who are lazy, encourage those who are anxious, help those who are weak, and be patient with everyone. 
Make sure none of you pays back evil for evil, but always try to do good to one another, and to everyone. 
Always be full of joy, 
never stop praying, 
be thankful in every situation—because this is what God in Christ Jesus wants you to do. 
Don't hold the Spirit back, 
don't look down on prophecy, 
make sure to check everything. Hold onto whatever is good; 
keep away from every kind of evil. 
May the God of peace himself make you completely holy, and may your whole being—body, mind and spirit—be kept blameless for when our Lord Jesus Christ returns. 
The one who calls you is trustworthy, and he will do this. 
Brothers and sisters, pray for us. 
Greet all the believers there affectionately. 
I'm requiring you by the Lord that this letter be read to all the believers. 
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
