Leviticus.
Chapter 9.
On the eighth day after the ordination Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel, to meet with him. 
He told Aaron, “You need to bring a young bull as a sin offering and a ram as a burnt offering, both without defects, and present them before the Lord. 
Then tell the Israelites, ‘Bring the following offerings: a male goat as a sin offering; a calf and a lamb, (both a year old and without defects), for a burnt offering; 
a bull and a ram as a peace offering to sacrifice before the Lord; and a grain offering mixed with olive oil. Do this because today the Lord is going to reveal himself to you today.’” 
Following Moses' orders they brought what he'd said to the front of the Tent of Meeting. Everyone came and stood before the Lord. 
Moses said, “This is what the Lord ordered me to tell you to do, so that you may see his glory.” 
Then Moses told Aaron, “Go to the altar and sacrifice your sin offering and your burnt offering to make you and the people right. Then sacrifice the offerings brought by the people as a means to make them right, as the Lord ordered.” 
So Aaron went to the altar and killed the calf as a sin offering for himself. 
His sons brought the blood to him. He dipped his finger in the blood and put it on the horns of the altar. He poured out the rest of the blood at the bottom of the altar. 
He burned the fat, the kidneys, and the best part of the liver from the sin offering on the altar, as the Lord had ordered Moses to do. 
However, he burned up the meat and the skin outside the camp. 
Aaron killed the burnt offering. His sons brought him the blood, and he sprinkled it on the sides of the altar. 
They brought him the head and all the other pieces of the burnt offering, and he burned them on the altar. 
He washed the insides and the legs and burned them with the rest of the burnt offering on the altar. 
Then Aaron presented the offerings of the people. He killed the male goat as the sin offering for the people, and offered it in the same way as his own sin offering. 
He presented the burnt offering, doing so in accordance with the regulations. 
He presented the grain offering. He took a handful from it and burned it on the altar, in addition to the burnt offering presented earlier that morning. 
Aaron killed the bull and the ram as the peace offering for the people. His sons brought him the blood, and he sprinkled it on the sides of the altar. 
They also brought him the fat portions from the bull, and from the ram—the fat tail, the fat covering the insides, the kidneys, and the best part of the liver— 
and put them on the breasts. Aaron burned the fat portions on the altar, 
but he waved the breasts and the right thigh as a wave offering before the Lord, as Moses had ordered him to do. 
Then Aaron held up his hands towards the people and blessed them. After that he came down from the altar, having completed the sin offering, the burnt offering, and the peace offering. 
Moses and Aaron went into the Tent of Meeting. When they came out, they blessed the people, and the glory of the Lord was revealed to everyone. 
Fire came from the presence of the Lord and burned up the burnt offering and the fat portions on the altar. When everyone saw this, they shouted for joy and fell down with their faces to the ground. 
