Jeremiah.
Chapter 30.
This is the message that came to Jeremiah from the Lord: 
This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: Write down in a book everything I've told you. 
Look, the time is coming, declares the Lord, when I will bring back my people Israel and Judah from captivity, declares the Lord. I will bring them back to the country I gave to their forefathers, and they will own it again. 
This what the Lord said about Israel and Judah. 
This is what the Lord says: Hear the cries of panic, cries of fear, not peace. 
Think about it! Can men give birth? No. So why do I see every man holding his stomach with his hands like a woman in labor. Why is every face white as a sheet? 
What a terrible day it will be—a day like never before! This is the time of trouble for Jacob's descendants, but they will be rescued from it. 
On that day, declares the Lord Almighty, I will break the yoke from their necks and tear off their chains. Foreigners won't make them slaves anymore. 
They will serve the Lord their God, and their king, David's descendant whom I will give them. 
As far as you're concerned, my servant Jacob, don't be afraid, declares the Lord, Israel, don't be discouraged. I promise to save you from your distant places of exile, your descendants from the countries where they're being held captive. The descendants of Jacob will go home to a quiet and comfortable life, free from any threats. 
I am with you and I will save you, declares the Lord. Even though I'm going to completely destroy all the nations where I scattered you, I won't completely destroy you. However, I will discipline you as you deserve, and you can be sure I won't leave you unpunished. 
This is what the Lord says: You have a wound that cannot be healed, you have a terrible injury. 
There's no one to take care of your case, no cure for your sores, no healing for you. 
All your lovers have forgotten about you; they don't bother looking for you anymore, because I have beaten you as if I were your enemy, the discipline of a cruel person, because of how wicked you are, because of your many sins. 
Why are you crying over your wound? You pain can't be cured. I did this to you because of how wicked you are, because of your many sins. 
Even so, everyone who destroys you will be destroyed. All your enemies, every last one, will be sent into exile. Those who plundered you will be plundered, and all who robbed you will be robbed. 
But I will give you back your health and heal your wounds, declares the Lord, because people say you've been abandoned and that no one cares about you, Zion. 
This is what the Lord says: I will bring Jacob's descendants back to their homes and have mercy on their families. The city will be rebuilt on top of its ruins, and the palace once again stand where it should. 
People will be singing songs of thanks, the sounds of celebration. I will increase their number—they will not become less. I will honor them—they will not be treated as insignificant. 
Their children will be looked after like they used to be. I will make their nation strong again, and punish anyone who attacks them. 
Their leader will be from their own country, their ruler will be chosen from among them. I will invite him to come close to me, and he will do so, for would anyone dare to approach me without being asked? declares the Lord. 
You will be my people, and I will be your God. 
Watch out! The Lord has sent out a furious storm, a tornado swirling around the heads of the wicked. 
The Lord's anger won't fade until he's finished doing everything he wants. Only then will you really understand. 
