PSALMS.
Chapter 22.
For the music director. To the tune “Doe of the Dawn.” A psalm of David. My God, my God, why have you abandoned me? Why are you so far away when I groan, asking for help? 
My God, every day I cry out to you, but you don't answer; at night too, but I get no rest. 
Yet you are holy, and the praises of Israel are your throne. 
Our forefathers trusted in you; they trusted and you rescued them. 
They cried out to you for help, and they were saved. They trusted in you and were not defeated. 
But I'm a worm, not a man, scorned and despised by everyone. 
People who see me mock me. They laugh at me and shake their heads, saying, 
“He trusts in the Lord—well then, let the Lord save him! If the Lord is such a friend, then let the Lord rescue him!” 
However, you brought me safely through birth, and led me to trust in you at my mother's breasts. 
I was entrusted to you from birth; from the time I was born you have been my God. 
Do not be distant from me, because trouble is close by and no one else can help. 
Enemies surround me like a herd of bulls; strong bulls from Bashan have encircled me. 
Like roaring lions tearing at their prey they open their mouths wide against me. 
I feel like I'm being poured out like water. I'm falling apart as if all my bones have become loose. My mind feels like it's wax melting inside me. 
My strength has dried up like a piece of broken pottery. My tongue is stuck to the roof of my mouth. You're burying me as if I'm already dead. 
Evil men surround me like a pack of dogs. They have pierced my hands and feet. 
I'm so thin I can count all my bones. People stare at me and gloat. 
They divide my clothing among them; they roll dice for my clothes. 
But you, Lord, don't be far away from me! You are my strength—hurry, come and help me! 
Save me from death by the sword! Save my life—the only one I have—from the dogs! 
Rescue me from the mouth of the lion and from the wild bulls! 
I will tell my people all the wonderful things you have done; I will praise you in the congregation. 
Praise the Lord, all who worship him! Honor him, every descendant of Jacob! Be in awe of him, every descendant of Israel! 
For he has not ridiculed or scorned the suffering of the poor; he has not turned away from them, he has listened to their cries for help. 
You are the subject of my praise in the great assembly. I will fulfill my promises before those who worship you. 
The poor shall eat, and they shall be satisfied. All who come to the Lord will praise him—may you all live forever! 
Everyone in the whole world will repent and return to the Lord; all the nations will worship before you. 
For kingly power belongs to the Lord; he is the one who rules over the nations. 
All who prosper come to feast and worship. Bow down before him, all those destined for the grave—for none can keep themselves alive. 
Our descendants will serve him; they will tell the next generation about the Lord. 
They will come and tell those yet to be born how good the Lord is, and all that he has done! 
