Numbers.
Chapter 10.
The Lord told Moses, 
“Make two trumpets out of hammered silver. They are to be used for summoning the Israelites and to have the camp move out. 
When both trumpets are blown, all the Israelites are to gather before you at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
But if only one is blown, then only the tribal leaders are to gather before you. 
When you blow the trumpet loudly, which is the alarm signal to move out, the camps on the east side are to march out first. 
When you blow the trumpet loudly the second time, the camps on the south side are to march out. That's their signal to start moving. 
To summon the people, blow the trumpets normally, not the loud alarm signal. 
Aaron's descendants are to blow the trumpets. This regulation is for all time and for all future generations. 
When you're in your own land and have to go into battle against an enemy who has attacked you, blow the alarm signal and the Lord your God won't forget you—he will save you from your enemies. 
Blow the trumpets when you celebrate too, at your regular feasts and at the beginning of each month. This is when you give your burnt offerings and fellowship offerings which act as a reminder for you before your God. I am the Lord your God.” 
The cloud rose up from the Tabernacle of the Testimony on the twentieth day of the second month of the second year. 
The Israelites left the Desert of Sinai and moved from place to place until the cloud stopped in the Desert of Paran. 
This was the first time they moved out following the Lord's command through Moses. 
The tribal divisions of Judah went first, marching out under their flag, with Nahshon, son of Amminadab, in charge. 
Nethanel, son of Zuar, was in charge of the tribal division of Issachar, 
and Eliab, son of Helon, was in charge of the tribal division of Zebulun. 
Then the Tabernacle was dismantled, and the Gershonites and the Merarites set off, carrying it. 
Then came the divisions of Reuben who marched out under their flag, with Elizur, son of Shedeur, in charge. 
Shelumiel, son of Zurishaddai, was in charge of the tribal division of Simeon, 
and Eliasaph, son of Deuel, was in charge of the tribal division of Gad. 
Then the Kohathites set off, carrying the holy objects. The Tabernacle would be put up before they arrived. 
Then came the divisions of Ephraim who marched out under their flag, with Elishama, son of Ammihud in charge. 
Gamaliel, son of Pedahzur, was in charge of the tribal division of Manasseh, 
and Abidan, son of Gideoni, was in charge of the tribal division of Benjamin. 
Lastly came the divisions of Dan who marched out under their flag, defending the rear of all the tribal groups, with Ahiezer, son of Ammishaddai, in charge. 
Pagiel, son of Ocran, was in charge of the tribal division of Asher, 
and Ahira, son of Enan, was in charge of the tribal division of Naphtali. 
This was the order in which the Israelite tribal divisions moved out. 
Moses explained to Hobab, the son of Moses' father-in-law Reuel the Midianite, “We're leaving for the place of which the Lord promised, ‘I'm going to give it to you.’ Come with us, and we'll be good to you, because the Lord has promised good things to Israel.” 
“No, I won't go—I'll return to my own country and my own people,” Hobab replied. 
“Please don't abandon us now,” Moses said, “because you're the one who knows where we should camp in the desert and you can guide us. 
If you come with us, whatever good things the Lord blesses us with we'll share with you.” 
They left the mountain of the Lord to go on a three-day journey The Ark of the Lord's Agreement led the way for them during these three days to find a place for them to camp. 
The cloud of the Lord was above them during day as they moved on from the camp. 
Whenever the Ark was carried out, Moses would call out, “Stand up, Lord, and may your enemies be scattered, and may those who hate you run away from you.” 
Whenever it was set down, he would call out, “Return, Lord, to the thousands and thousands of the people of Israel.” 
