Romans.
Chapter 1.
This letter comes from Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ. I was called to be an apostle by God. God appointed me to announce the good news 
that he had previously promised through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures. 
The good news is about his Son, whose human forefather was David, 
but who was revealed as God's Son by his resurrection from the dead through the power of the Holy Spirit. He is Jesus Christ our Lord. 
It was through him that I received the privilege of becoming an apostle to call all nations to obedient trust in him. 
You are also included among those who were called to belong to Jesus Christ. 
I'm writing to all of you in Rome who are loved by God, and called to be his special people. Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ! 
Let me begin by saying that I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because the way in which you trust in God is spoken about all over the world. 
I'm always praying for you, as God can confirm—the God I serve with the whole of my being as I share the good news about his Son. 
In my prayers I'm always asking that I might eventually come and see you, if that's what God wants. 
I really want to visit you and share with you a spiritual blessing to strengthen you. 
In this way we can be encouraged together by each others' trust in God, both your trust and mine. 
I want you to know, my brothers and sisters, I often planned to visit you, but I was kept from coming up till now. I want to see some good spiritual results among you just as I've seen among other people. 
For I have an obligation to work for both the civilized and the uncivilized, both the educated and the uneducated. 
That's why I'm really keen to come to Rome and share the good news with you. 
I'm certainly not ashamed about the good news, for it's God's power to save everyone who trusts in him—to the Jewish people first, and then to everyone else as well. 
For in the good news God is revealed as good and right, trustworthy from start to finish. As Scripture says, “Those who are right with God live by trusting him.” 
God's hostility is revealed from heaven against those who are godless and who are not morally right, those who suppress the truth through the evil that they do. 
What can be known about God is obvious, because he has made it very clear to them. 
Ever since the creation of the world, the invisible aspects of God—his eternal power and divinity—are clearly visible in what he has made. Such people have no excuse, 
because even though they knew God, they did not praise him or thank him, but instead their thinking about God turned into complete foolishness, and darkness filled their empty minds. 
Even though they claimed to be wise, they became foolish. 
They exchanged the glory of the immortal God for idols, images of mortal human beings, birds, animals, and reptiles. 
So God abandoned them to the evil desires of their depraved minds, and they did shameful, degrading things to each other. 
They exchanged God's truth for a lie, worshiping and serving creatures instead of the Creator, who deserves praise forever. Amen. 
That's why God abandoned them to their evil desires. Their women exchanged natural sex for that which is unnatural, 
and in the same way the men gave up sex with women and burned with lust for each other. Men did indecent things to each other, and as a result they suffered the inevitable consequences of their perversions. 
Since they didn't consider it worthwhile to get to know God, he abandoned them to their worthless, distrustful way of thinking, doing things that should never be done. 
They filled themselves with all that's wrong: evil, greed, hate, envy, murder, quarreling, deception, malice, and gossip. 
They're back-stabbers and God-haters. They're arrogant, proud, and boastful. They devise new ways of sinning. They rebel against their parents. 
They don't want to understand, they don't keep their promises, they don't show any kindness or compassion. 
Even though they realize exactly what God requires, they do things that deserve death. Not only do they do such things themselves, they also support others in doing them. 
