Matthew.
Chapter 28.
Early Sunday morning, at dawn, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. 
All of a sudden there was a tremendous earthquake, for an angel of the Lord came down from heaven and rolled away the stone, and sat on it. 
His face blazed like lightning, and his clothes were as white as snow. 
The guards shook with fear, falling down as if they were dead. 
The angel told the women, “Don't be afraid! I know you're looking for Jesus, who was crucified. 
He's not here. He's risen from the dead, just as he said he would. Come and see where the Lord was lying. 
Now go quickly and tell his disciples that he's risen from the dead and that he's going on ahead of you to Galilee. You will see him there, I promise you!” 
They left the tomb quickly, both afraid and very happy, running to tell his disciples. 
Suddenly Jesus came to meet them, and greeted them. They went over to him, held onto his feet and worshiped him. 
Then Jesus said to them, “Don't be afraid! Go and tell my brothers to leave for Galilee, and they will see me there.” 
As they left, some of the guards went into the city and explained to the chief priests everything that had happened. 
After the chief priests had met with the elders, and worked out a plan, they bribed the soldiers with a great deal of money. 
“Say that his disciples came during the night and stole him while we were sleeping,” they told the soldiers. 
“And if the governor hears about this, we'll talk to him and you won't have to worry.” 
So the soldiers took the money and did what they were told. This story has been spread among the Jewish people to this very day. 
But the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go. 
When they saw him they worshiped him, though some doubted. 
Jesus came to them and told them, “All power in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 
So go and make disciples of people of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. 
Teach them to follow all the commands I have given you. Remember, I am always with you, to the very end of the world.” 
