Luke.
Chapter 24.
Very early on the first day of the week, the women went to the tomb, taking the spices they'd prepared. 
They found that the stone had been rolled away from the entrance to the tomb, 
but when they went in they didn't find the body of the Lord Jesus. 
While they were wondering what was going on, two men suddenly appeared dressed in clothes that shone brilliantly. 
The women were terrified and bowed down, their faces on the ground. They said to the women, “Why are you looking for someone who is alive among the dead? 
He's not here; he's risen from the dead! Remember what he told you while you were still in Galilee: 
‘The Son of man must be betrayed into the hands of evil men, be crucified, and on the third day rise again.’” 
Then they remembered what he'd said. 
When they returned from the tomb they reported all that had happened to the eleven disciples and to all the others. 
Those who told the apostles what had happened were Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and other women with them. 
But it seemed like nonsense to them, so they didn't believe the women. 
However, Peter got up and ran to the tomb. Bending down, he looked in and saw only the linen grave-clothes. So he went back home, wondering what had happened. 
The same day two disciples were on their way to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. 
They were talking about all that had happened. 
As they discussed and debated, Jesus came up and fell into step with them. 
But they were kept from recognizing him. 
“What are you discussing as you walk along?” he asked them. They stopped, their faces sad. 
One of them, called Cleopas, replied, “Are you just visiting Jerusalem? You must be the only person who doesn't know the things that have happened in the past few days.” 
“What things?” Jesus asked. “About Jesus of Nazareth,” they replied. “He was a prophet who spoke powerfully and performed great miracles before God and all the people. 
But our high priests and leaders handed him over to be condemned to death, and they crucified him. 
We had hoped he was the one who was going to rescue Israel. It's been three days now since all this happened. 
But then some of the women in our group surprised us. 
At dawn they went to the tomb and they didn't find his body. They came back saying that they'd seen a vision of angels who told them he's alive. 
Some of us went to the tomb, and found it just as the women said—but they didn't see him.” 
Jesus told them, “You're so dull! How slow you are to trust in all that the prophets said! 
Didn't the Messiah have to suffer before he could enter into his glory?” 
Then, starting with Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them everything that was said in Scripture about himself. 
As they approached the village they were going to, Jesus made it seem as if he was going farther. 
But they urged him, saying, “Please come and stay with us. It's getting late—the day is almost over.” So he went to stay with them. 
When he sat down to eat with them, he took the bread and gave thanks, broke it, and gave it to them. 
Their eyes were opened, and they recognized him. Then he disappeared from view. 
The two disciples said to each other, “Weren't our thoughts on fire when he spoke to us, as he explained the Scriptures to us?” 
They got up right away and returned to Jerusalem. There they found the eleven disciples and those who were with them meeting together, 
who said, “The Lord has really risen again! He has appeared to Simon.” 
Then those who had just arrived explained to the other disciples what had happened to them on the road, and how they had recognized Jesus when he broke bread. 
While they were talking, Jesus himself stood among them, and said, “Peace to you!” 
They were startled and afraid, thinking they were seeing a ghost. 
“Why are you frightened? Why are you doubting?” he asked them. 
“Look at my hands and my feet—you can see it's me. Touch me and you'll be certain, for a spirit doesn't have flesh and bones, as you see I have.” 
Having said this, he showed them his hands and feet. 
But they still couldn't believe it because they were so elated and amazed. He asked them, “Do you have anything to eat?” 
They gave him a piece of cooked fish, 
and he took it and ate it in front of them. 
Then Jesus said to them, “This is what I explained to you while I was still with you. Everything written about me in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the psalms, had to be fulfilled.” 
Then he opened their minds so they were able to understand the Scriptures. 
He told them, “It was written like this: the Messiah would suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, and in his name 
repentance for the forgiveness of sins would be preached to all nations, beginning in Jerusalem. 
You are witnesses of all this. 
Now I'm going to send you what my Father promised—but wait in the city until you receive power from heaven.” 
Then he led them out until they were near Bethany, and lifting up his hands, he blessed them. 
While he was blessing them, he left them, and was taken up to heaven. 
They worshiped him, and then they returned to Jerusalem full of joy. 
They spent all their time in the Temple praising God. 
