Numbers.
Chapter 15.
The Lord told Moses, 
“Tell the Israelites, ‘These are instructions about what you are to do once you arrive in the country I'm giving you to live in. 
When you bring an offering to the Lord from your herd or flock (whether it's a burnt offering, a sacrifice to fulfill a promise you made, or a freewill or festival offering) that will be acceptable to the Lord, 
then you shall also present a grain offering of one tenth of an ephah of best flour mixed with a quarter hin of olive oil. 
Add a quarter of a hin of wine as a drink offering to the burn offering or the sacrifice of a lamb. 
When it comes to a ram, present a grain offering of two tenths of an ephah of best flour mixed with a third of a hin of olive oil, 
along with a third of a hin of wine as a drink offering, all of them to be acceptable to the Lord. 
When you bring a young bull as a burnt offering or a sacrifice to fulfill a promise you made or as a peace offering to the Lord, 
then you shall also with the bull a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of the best flour mixed with half a hin of olive oil. 
Add a half a hin of wine as a drink offering. All this is an offering to be acceptable to the Lord. 
This is to be done for every bull, ram, lamb, or goat brought as an offering. 
This is what you need to do for each one, however many. 
Every Israelite is to follow these instructions when they present an offering that is accepted by the Lord. 
This also applies for all future generations that if a foreigner living among you or anyone else among you wishes to present an offering acceptable to the Lord: they are to do exactly what you do. 
The whole congregation must have the same rules for you and for the foreigner living among you. This is a permanent law for all future generations You and the foreigner are to be treated the same way before the law. 
The same rules and regulations apply to you and the foreigner living among you.’” 
Then the Lord told Moses, 
“Tell the Israelites, ‘When you get to the country where I'm leading you 
and you eat the food produced there, you shall give some of it as an offering to the Lord. 
You are to give some of the flour you make into loaves as a gift—present it just like an offering from the threshing floor. 
For all future generations, you are to give the Lord an offering from the first of your flour. 
Now if you collectively sin without meaning to and don't follow all these instructions that the Lord has given Moses— 
everything that the Lord has ordered you to do through Moses from the time that the Lord gave them and for all future generations— 
and if it was done unintentionally without everyone knowing about it, then the whole congregation is to present a young bull as a burnt offering to be accepted by the Lord, along with its grain offering and drink offering presented according to the rules, as well as a male goat as a sin offering. 
In this way the priest is to make the whole congregation of Israel right with the Lord so that they can be forgiven, because the sin was unintentional and they have presented the Lord with an burnt offering and a sin offering, offered before the Lord for their unintentional sin. 
Then the whole congregation of Israel and the foreigners living among them will be forgiven, because the people sinned unintentionally. 
In the case of an individual who sins without meaning to—they are to present a year-old female goat as a sin offering. 
The priest will make the person who sinned unintentionally right before the Lord their behalf. Once they have been made right, they will be forgiven. 
You shall apply the same law for the one who mistakenly sins to an Israelite or a foreigner living among you. 
But the person who sins in defiance, whether an Israelite or foreigner, is blaspheming the Lord. They shall be expelled from their people. 
They have to be expelled, because they have treated the word of the Lord with contempt and broken his commandment. They are responsible for the consequences of their own guilt.’” 
During the time the Israelites were wandering in the desert, a man was caught collecting firewood on the Sabbath. 
The people who found him collecting wood brought him before Moses, Aaron, and the rest of the Israelites. 
They placed him under guard because it wasn't clear what should happen to him. 
The Lord told Moses, “This man has to be executed. All the Israelites are to stone him outside the camp.” 
So they all took the man outside the camp and stoned him to death as the Lord had ordered Moses. 
Sometime later the Lord told Moses, 
“Tell the Israelites that for all future generations you must make tassels for the hems of your clothes and attach them with blue cord. 
When you look at these tassels you will be reminded to keep all the commandments of the Lord and not be unfaithful, following your own thoughts and desires. 
In this way you'll remember to keep all my commandments and you will be holy to your God. I am the Lord your God who led you out of Egypt to be your God. 
I am the Lord your God!” 
