Luke.
Chapter 4.
Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan River and was led by the Spirit into the desert, 
where he was tempted by the devil for forty days. He didn't eat anything during that whole time, so at the end he was starving. 
The devil said to him, “If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread.” 
“It is written in Scripture, ‘You shall not live on bread alone,’” Jesus answered. 
The devil led him up to a high place, and in a rapid view showed him all the kingdoms of the world. 
Then the devil said to Jesus, “I will give you authority over all of them, and their glory. This authority has been given to me, and I can give it to anyone I want. 
Bow down and worship me and you can have it all.” 
“It is written in Scripture, ‘You shall worship the Lord your God, and you shall serve only him,’” Jesus replied. 
The devil took Jesus to Jerusalem, set him on the top of the Temple, and told him, “If you are the Son of God, then jump! 
For it is written in Scripture, ‘He will order his angels to care for you, 
holding you up to protect you from stumbling over a stone.’” 
“It is written in Scripture, ‘You shall not tempt the Lord your God,’” Jesus replied. 
When the devil had completed all his temptations, he waited for another opportunity. 
Jesus returned to Galilee, full of the Spirit's power. News about him spread everywhere. 
Jesus taught in their synagogues, and everyone praised him. 
When he arrived in Nazareth, where he had grown up, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day as usual. 
The scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him. Jesus unrolled the scroll and found the place where it's written: 
“The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, for he has anointed me to announce good news to the destitute. He has sent me to proclaim that prisoners will be released, the blind will see, the oppressed will be freed, 
and to proclaim the time of the Lord's favor.” 
He rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant. Then he sat down. Everybody in the synagogue was staring at him. 
“This Scripture you've just heard has been fulfilled today!” he told them. 
Everybody expressed their approval of him, amazed at the gracious words that came from his lips. “Isn't this Joseph's son?” they wondered. 
Jesus replied, “I'm sure you'll repeat this proverb to me, ‘Physician, heal yourself!’ and ask, ‘Why don't you do here in your own hometown what we heard you did in Capernaum?’ 
But I tell you the truth, no prophet is accepted in his hometown. 
I guarantee that there were many widows in Israel during the time of Elijah when there was a drought for three and a half years, causing a great famine throughout the country. 
Yet Elijah wasn't sent to any of them. He was sent to a widow in Zarephath in the region of Sidon! 
Even though there were many lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha, the only one who was healed was Naaman the Syrian!” 
When they heard this everyone in the synagogue became furious. 
They jumped to their feet and threw him out of the town. Then they dragged him to the top of the hill on which the town was built in order to throw him off the cliff. 
But he walked right through them and went on his way. 
Jesus went down to Capernaum, a town in Galilee. On Sabbath he started teaching them. 
They were amazed at what he taught them for he spoke with authority. 
In the synagogue there was a man who was possessed by a demon. He cried out, 
“So, what do you want with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are: God's Holy One!” 
Jesus interrupted him, saying. “Be quiet!” Then he ordered the demon, “Come out of him!” Throwing him to the ground right before them, the demon left the man without injuring him. 
They were all amazed and asked each other, “What is this teaching? With power and authority he orders evil spirits to leave—and they do!” 
News about Jesus spread throughout the nearby region. 
Leaving the synagogue, Jesus went to Simon's house. Simon's mother-in-law was sick with a high fever and those who were there asked Jesus to help. 
Jesus went and stood over her. He told the fever to leave her—which it did. She got up right away and prepared a meal for them. 
When the sun set, they brought to him all who were sick, suffering from various diseases. Jesus placed his hands on them, one after the other, and he healed them. 
Demons came out of many people, shouting, “You are the Son of God.” But Jesus stopped them and refused to let them speak because they knew he was the Christ. 
Early the following morning Jesus left to find some peace and quiet. But the crowds went out looking for him, and finally found him. They tried to stop him leaving because they did not want him to go. 
But he told them, “I have to go to other towns to tell them the good news of the kingdom of God too, because that is what I was sent to do.” 
So Jesus went on traveling around, teaching the good news in the synagogues of Judea. 
