1 Chronicles.
Chapter 23.
When David was old, having lived a long life, he made his son Solomon king of Israel. 
He also summoned all the leaders of Israel, the priests, and the Levites. 
The Levites over thirty years old were counted, and there was 38,000 in total. 
“Of these 24,000 will be in charge of the work of the house of the LORD, while 6,000 will be officers and judges,” David instructed. 
“And 4,000 will be gatekeepers, while 4,000 will praise the Lord using the musical instruments I have provided for praise worship.” 
David divided them into sections corresponding to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
The sons of Gershon: Ladan and Shimei. 
The sons of Ladan: Jehiel (chief), and Zetham, and Joel, three in total. 
The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran, three in total. These were the leaders of the families of Ladan. 
The sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zizah, Jeush, and Beriah—four in total. 
Jahath (chief), and Zizah (second); but because Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons they were counted as a single family. 
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel—a total of four. 
The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. Aaron was dedicated to service with the most holy things, that he and his sons should always present offerings to the Lord, and minister before him, and give blessings in his name forever. 
As for Moses, the man of God, his sons were included with the tribe of Levi. 
The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer. 
The sons of Gershom: Shebuel (chief). 
The sons of Eliezer: Rehabiah (chief). Eliezer had no other sons, but Rehabiah had many sons. 
The sons of Izhar: Shelomith (chief). 
The sons of Hebron: Jeriah (chief), Amariah (second), Jahaziel (third), and Jekameam (fourth). 
The sons of Uzziel: Micah (chief) and Isshiah (second). 
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish. 
Eleazar died without having sons, only daughters. Their cousins, the sons of Kish, married them. 
The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth—three in total. 
These were the descendants of Levi by family, the heads of families chiefs listed individually by name—those twenty years of age or more who served in the house of the Lord. 
For David said, “The Lord, the God of Israel, has given peace to his people, and he will live in Jerusalem forever. 
So the Levites don't need to carry the Tent any longer, or anything needed for its service.” 
In accordance with David's final instructions, Levites twenty years of age or more were counted. 
Their assignment was to help the descendants of Aaron with the service of the house of the Lord They were responsible for the courtyards and rooms, for cleansing all the holy things, and the work of the service of the house of God. 
They were also responsible for the showbread that was placed on the table, the special flour for the grain offerings, the unleavened bread, the baking, the mixing, and dealing with all amounts and measurements. 
They also had to stand every morning to give thanks and praise to the Lord, and do the same in the evening, 
and whenever burnt offerings were presented to the Lord whether on Sabbaths, new moons, and feast days. They were to serve regularly before the Lord according to the number required for them. 
So the Levites were to carry out the responsibility of caring for the Tent of Meeting and the sanctuary, and with their brothers the descendants of Aaron, they served the house of the Lord. 
