PSALMS.
Chapter 119.
Aleph Happy are those who do what is right, who follow what the Lord says. 
Happy are those who keep his commandments, who sincerely want to follow him. 
They don't do what's wrong; they walk in his ways. 
You have ordered us to follow your instructions carefully. 
May I be reliable in the way I keep your rules! 
Then I won't be ashamed when I compare what I do to what you have said. 
I will praise you sincerely as I learn from you the right way to live. 
I will observe your laws. Please never give up on me! 
Beth How does a young person remain pure? By following what you say. 
I worship you sincerely; please don't let me stray from your commands. 
I keep what you say in mind so I won't sin against you. 
Thank you Lord! Teach me what to do! 
I repeat out loud your instructions. 
I enjoy your laws more than having plenty of money. 
I will think deeply about your teachings, and reflect on your ways. 
I will take pleasure in following your directions; I won't forget what you say. 
Gimel Be kind to your servant so I can live and follow what you teach. 
Open my eyes so I may discover wonderful things in your law. 
I'm only here for a short time—don't let me miss what you have to say. 
I'm always so keen to know your instructions. 
You reprimand those who are arrogant; those who don't follow your commandments are cursed. 
Don't let me be scorned and insulted, for I have kept your laws. 
Even leaders sit down together and slander me, but I, your servant, will think seriously about your instructions. 
Your laws make me happy—they are my wise advisors. 
I'm dying here, lying in the dust. Keep me alive as you promised. 
I explained my situation to you, and you answered me. Teach me to follow your directions. 
Help me understand what your laws mean, and I will meditate on the wonderful things you do. 
I'm weeping because I'm so sad; please encourage me as you promised. 
Stop me fooling myself; kindly teach me your law. 
I have chosen to trust in you. I always pay attention to what you say. 
I hold on to your teachings, Lord. Don't let me be ridiculed. 
I run to follow your commands, for you have expanded my mind! 
He Teach me the meaning of your laws, and I will always keep them. 
Help me to understand so I can be totally committed to doing what you want. 
Lead me to follow your commands, for this is what I love to do 
Help me to concentrate on what you say rather than on making a profit. 
Don't let me focus on things that are worthless. Help me live in your ways. 
Please keep your promise to me, your servant, that you made to those who worship you. 
Take away the shame I dread, for your law is good. 
I always want to do what you say. Please let me live, for you do what is right. 
Waw Lord, please love me with your trustworthy love; please give me the salvation you promised. 
Then I can reply to those who mock me, for I trust what you say. 
Don't ever prevent me from being able to speak your words of truth, for I place my complete confidence in your just judgments. 
I will continue to follow your teachings, forever and ever. 
I shall live in freedom, for I have committed myself to obeying you. 
I will instruct kings about your laws—I won't be embarrassed. 
I'm so happy for your instructions. I love them! 
I lift up my hands in prayer, honoring your commandments. I will think deeply about all you say. 
Zayin Remember your promise to me, your servant. It's my only hope. 
This is what brings me encouragement in my misery—your promise keeps me going! 
Arrogant people mock me terribly, but I don't give up on your teachings. 
I think about the instructions you gave long ago, Lord, and they reassure me. 
I am angry with the wicked because they have rejected your law. 
Your instructions have been music to my ears wherever I have lived. 
At night I think about the kind of person you are, Lord, and do what you say. 
For this is how I live my life—by following your principles. 
Heth Lord, you are mine! I have promised to do as you say. 
My whole being wants your blessing—please be kind to me, as you have promised! 
As I think about my life, I turn to follow what you have said. 
I hurry to keep your commandments without delay 
Even though wicked people try to tie me up, I won't forget your instructions. 
I get up in the middle of the night to thank you for your good laws. 
I identify with all those who follow you, those who do what you tell them. 
Lord, you love everyone on earth; please teach me what to do. 
Teth Lord, you have been so good to me, your servant, as you have promised. 
Now teach me wise judgment and discernment because I believe in your instructions. 
Previously I was suffering, wandering away from you, but now I do what you say. 
Since you are good, everything you do is good. Teach me your ways. 
Arrogant people smear my reputation with lies; but I whole-heartedly follow your commands. 
They are cold and unfeeling, but I love your law. 
The suffering I went through was good for me, so I could think about what you have stipulated. 
What you tell me to do is worth more to me than much gold and silver. 
Yodh You created me and made me what I am; help me to learn and better understand your commandments. 
May those who worship you be happy when they see me, for I place my confidence in your word. 
Lord, I know that what you decide is right; you brought me down in order to help me because you are trustworthy. 
May your trustworthy love comfort me as your promised me, your servant. 
Be compassionate to me so I may live, for I love your teachings. 
Bring down those proud people who wronged me with their lies. I will spend time thinking about your instructions. 
Let those who follow you turn to me, those who understand your laws. 
May I be innocent in the way I keep your rules so that I won't be ashamed. 
Kaph I'm exhausted waiting for you to save me, but my hope is in your word. 
I strain my eyes looking for you to keep your promises, asking “When will you comfort me?” 
I've become like a wineskin that's been shriveled up by smoke, but I have not forgotten to do as you say. 
How long do I have to wait before you punish my persecutors? 
These arrogant people have dug pits to trap me, these people who don't care anything about your law. 
All your commands are trustworthy. Help me against these people who persecute me with their lies! 
They have almost killed me, but I have not given up on what you say. 
Since you love me with your trustworthy love, don't let me die, so I can go on following the instructions you have given. 
Lamedh Your word, Lord, lasts forever. It stands firm in the heavens. 
Your faithfulness lasts for all generations, as permanent as the earth you created. 
Your judgments stand—they are as true today as ever—for everything serves your will. 
If I didn't love your teachings, my suffering would have killed me. 
I will never forget your instructions, for through them you give me life. 
I belong to you, so please save me! I am committed to following your rules. 
Even though wicked people are waiting to ambush and kill me, I will focus my mind on what you say. 
I recognize that human perfection has its limits, but your law is limitless. 
Mem I really love your law! I meditate on it all day long. 
Your commands make me wiser than my enemies, for I'm always thinking about your instructions. 
In fact I have a better insight than all of my teachers because I spend time concentrating on what you say. 
I even understand more than the elders because I follow your directions. 
I avoid any course of action that leads to evil, because I want to remain faithful to your word. 
I have not disregarded your instructions because you yourself taught me what to do. 
Your words taste so sweet to me! They are sweeter than honey to my mouth. 
I gain understanding from what you say, so I hate any way of life that's just a lie. 
Nun Your word is a lamp that shows me where to walk, it's a light for my path. 
I've made a promise, and I will keep it: I will keep your rules that are always right! 
Lord, I'm really suffering! Please let me live, as you have promised. 
Lord, please accept my offerings of praise that I freely give you. Teach me your rules. 
My life is always at risk, but I will not forget your law. 
Wicked people have set a trap for me, but I will not stray from your commandments. 
I will always hold on to what you say for your words make me really happy, 
I have made up my mind to follow your instructions to the very end. 
Samekh I hate people who are two-faced, but I love your law. 
You keep me safe and you defend me, your word gives me reason to hope. 
Leave me alone, you evil people, and let me keep the commandments of my God. 
Support me, Lord, as you promised, so I can live. Don't let my hope turn into discouragement. 
Support me, so I can be saved and always pay attention to your instructions. 
You reject all those who don't follow your instructions—they're fooling themselves by living a lie. 
You treat the wicked people on earth as something worthless to be discarded; therefore I love your laws. 
I have goose bumps thinking of you—I'm in awe! I'm scared of your judgments! 
Ayin I have done what's fair and right, so please don't abandon me to my enemies. 
Please promise you'll take care of me, your servant. Don't let these arrogant people mistreat me. 
I strain my eyes looking for your salvation, watching for you to fulfill your promise to make everything good. 
Please treat me, your servant, according to your trustworthy love. Teach me what you want me to do. 
I am your servant. Please give me discernment so I can understand your instructions. 
Lord, it's time for you to act, for these people have broken your laws. 
This is why I love your commandments more than gold, more than the finest gold. 
All of your rules are right in every way, and so I hate any way of life that's just a lie. 
Pe Your laws are truly wonderful—that's why I keep them! 
Studying your words brings light so that even the uneducated can understand. 
With keen desire I long for what you have to say. 
Please pay attention to me and be kind to me, as you are with those who love you. 
Tell me by your word the way I should go, and don't let any kind of evil control me. 
Save me from cruel people so I can follow your instructions. 
Please look favorably on me, your servant, teach me what I should do. 
My tears stream down as I weep for those who don't keep your law. 
Tsadhe Lord, you are right, and what you decide is just! 
You have given your instructions which are fair and totally trustworthy. 
My devotion is burning me up inside because my enemies ignore your words. 
Your promises have been proved true, and that's why I, your servant, love them. 
I may be unimportant and looked down on, but I don't forget your commandments. 
Your goodness and justice last forever; and your law is the truth. 
When I have problems and sadness, your commands make me happy. 
Your laws are always right; help me to understand what they mean so I can live. 
Qoph My whole being is crying out! Lord, please answer me! I will follow your instructions. 
I pray to you, asking, “Please save me!” so I can do what you say. 
I get up before dawn, and call out to you for help and put my hope in your word. 
During the night I stay awake, meditating on your word. 
Listen to what I have to say, Lord, because of your trustworthy love. Keep me alive, Lord, because you always do what's right. 
Evil people come running to attack me—they totally disregard your law. 
But you, Lord, are close beside me; all your commandments are true. 
Long ago I realized that your laws will last forever. 
Resh Please look at my suffering and save me! I have not forgotten your teachings. 
Plead my case, and save me as you promised! Let me live! 
Wicked people can't be saved, because they don't care about what you say. 
Lord, your mercy is so great! Because you are always fair, please let me live! 
Despite the many people who persecute and mistreat me, I have not strayed from your laws. 
Watching these unfaithful people disgusts me because they take no notice of your word. 
See how much I love your commandments, Lord. Please let me live because of your trustworthy love. 
Your word can be summed up in one word: truth! All of your just laws will last forever. 
Shin Leaders persecute me for no reason, but I am in awe only of your word. 
Your word makes me so happy—I'm like someone who discovers immense treasure. 
I hate and detest lies, but I love your teachings. 
I praise you seven times a day because your laws are good. 
Those who love your teachings have wonderful peace and nothing trips them up. 
Lord, I look forward to your salvation. I keep your commandments. 
I obey your laws and love them very much. 
I keep your commandments and laws because you see everything I do. 
Taw Lord, please listen to my sad cry; help me to understand, as you promised. 
Please hear what I have to say to you, and save me, as you promised. 
Let me pour out my words of praise, for you teach me what to do. 
I will sing about your word, for all your commandments are right. 
Please be ready to help me, for I have chosen to follow your instructions. 
I long for your salvation, Lord; your teachings make me happy. 
May I live my life in praise to you, and may your instructions help me. 
I have wandered away like a lost sheep, so please come looking for me, for I have not forgotten your commandments. 
