PSALMS.
Chapter 94.
The Lord is a God of vengeance! God of vengeance, shine out! 
Stand up, judge of the earth, and pay back those who are proud what they deserve. 
How long, Lord? How long will the wicked celebrate in triumph? 
How long will you let them pour out their arrogant words? How long will these evil people go on boasting? 
Lord, they crush your people; they oppress those you call your own. 
They kill widows and foreigners; they murder orphans. 
They say, “The Lord can't see what we're doing. Israel's God doesn't pay any attention to us.” 
Take another look, you stupid people! Fools—when will you ever get the point? 
Do you think the creator of the ear can't hear? Do you think the maker of the eye can't see? 
Do you think that the one who punishes nations won't punish you too? Do you think that the one who teaches human beings knowledge doesn't know anything? 
The Lord knows the thoughts of human beings—he knows they are pointless. 
Those you discipline are happy, Lord; those you teach from your Law. 
You give them peace in days of trouble, until a pit is dug to trap the wicked. 
For the Lord will not give up on his people; he will not abandon his own. 
Justice will once again be based on what is right; those who are sincere will support it. 
Who came to my defense against the wicked; who stood up for me against those who do evil? 
If the Lord hadn't helped me, I would have soon gone down into the silence of the grave. 
I shouted out, “My foot's slipping!” and your trustworthy love, Lord, kept me from falling. 
When my mind was full of worries, you comforted me and encouraged me. 
Can unjust judges really be on your side, Lord, when their corrupt use of the law causes misery? 
They work together to destroy good people; they condemn those who are innocent to death. 
But the Lord protects me like a fortress; my God is the rock that keeps me safe. 
He will turn the wickedness of evil people back upon them; he will destroy them because of their sins; the Lord our God will destroy them. 
