PSALMS.
Chapter 59.
For the music director. According to “Do Not Destroy.” A psalm (miktam) of David, concerning the time Saul sent out soldiers to watch David's house in order to kill him. Rescue me from my enemies, God! Protect me from those who are attacking me! 
Rescue me from these evil people! Save me from these murderers! 
See how they're lying in wait to kill me! Powerful men are gathered against me, Lord, even though I have not sinned or done anything wrong. 
Even though I'm not guilty they hurry to prepare an attack on me. Please stand up, come and help me, and see what's going on. 
You are God, the Lord Almighty, God of Israel. Stand up, and punish all the nations. Don't have any mercy on these evil traitors. Selah. 
In the evening they return, snarling like dogs as they roam around the city. 
See what evil talk comes pouring out of their mouths! Words sharp as swords, for they say to themselves, “Who can hear us?” 
But you, Lord, you laugh at them; you pour scorn on all the nations. 
You are my strength! I will look to you, God, for you are the one who protects me. 
In his trustworthy love, God will come and save me. He will show me how my enemies are defeated. 
Don't kill them right away, otherwise my people will quickly forget what you have done. By your power make them stagger around and then fall down, Lord our protection. 
Let them be caught out by the evil things they say, the words they proudly speak—brought down by their curses and the lies they tell! 
Destroy them in your anger! Destroy them completely! Then everyone will know that God rules in Israel! 
In the evening they return, snarling like dogs as they roam around the city. 
They wander around, looking for things to eat, and howl when they're not satisfied. 
But I will sing of your strength; in the morning I will sing for joy about your trustworthy love. For you have been my protection; my place of safety in my time of trouble. 
You are my strength, I sing praises to you, for you are the one who protects me—the God who shows me his trustworthy love! 
