Job.
Chapter 37.
At this my heart trembles, beating rapidly within me! 
Listen carefully to God's thunderous voice that rumbles as he speaks. 
He sends it across the heaven; his lightning flashes to the ends of the earth. 
Then comes the roar of thunder, his majestic voice holding nothing back when he speaks. 
God's thunderous voice is wonderful! We can't comprehend the great things he does! 
He tells the snow to fall and the rain to pour down on the earth. 
By this he stops people working so that everyone can understand what he does. 
Even the animals take shelter and remain in their dens. 
The south wind blows in storms, while the north wind blows in cold weather. 
God's breath produces ice, freezing the surface of water solid. 
He fills the clouds with moisture; he scatters his lightning from them. 
They swirl around under his control; they move over all the earth as he commands. 
He does this to accomplish his will, either to discipline or to show his goodness. 
Listen to this, Job! Stop for a moment and consider the wonderful things God does. 
Do you know how God controls the clouds, or makes his lightning flash from them? 
Do you know how clouds float in the sky—the wonderful work of him who knows everything. 
You know how your clothes drip with sweat when the south wind brings air that is hot and heavy. 
Can you hammer out the sky so it becomes like a molten mirror, as he does? 
So why don't you teach us what to tell God? We cannot make our case because we are in the dark! 
Should God be told that I want to speak? Anyone who wanted to would be destroyed! 
After all, we can't look at the sun when it blazes brightly in the sky, after the wind has cleared away the clouds. 
Out of the north God comes shining like gold, surrounded in awesome majesty. 
We cannot approach the Almighty for he is far beyond us in power and justice, and doing right. 
He does not act like a tyrant—no wonder people are in awe of him, though he does not value those who think they're wise.” 
