1 Timothy.
Chapter 4.
However, the Spirit very clearly explains that in the last times some will abandon their trust in God, and will listen to deceptive spirits and beliefs that come from demons. 
These hypocritical liars, whose consciences have been seared, 
tell people to not marry and not to eat certain foods made by God that should be accepted with thanks by those who trust and know the truth. 
Everything created by God is good, and nothing should be rejected but should be received with thanks, 
since it is made sacred by the word of God and by prayer. 
If you point out these things to the brothers and sisters you will be a good minister of Christ Jesus. You gain strength by trusting in the truth, and in the good teaching you've followed. 
Reject what is irreligious, and old wives' tales. Make sure your exercise is spiritual— 
for while physical exercise is useful to some extent, spiritual exercise is much more useful. For “it has promise for the present life, and for the life to come.” 
You can trust this saying that should be accepted by everyone. 
The reason we work and do the best we can is because our hope is in the living God. He is the Savior of all people, especially of those who trust in him. 
This is what you should teach. Tell everyone to follow your instructions. 
Don't let anyone look down on you because you are young. Be an example to those who trust in God—in the way you speak, the kind of life you live, in love, in trust, and in purity. 
Until I get there, make sure you read the Scriptures to the church, and encourage them by your speaking and teaching. 
Don't neglect the gracious gift you have that was given to you by prophetic inspiration when the church elders laid their hands on you. 
Think carefully about these things, and dedicate yourself completely to them so that everyone can see the progress you're making. 
Mind what you're doing and what you're teaching. Keep going with all of this, because as you do so you'll save both yourself and those who listen to you. 
