Philippians.
Chapter 4.
Herfore my brethren dearly beloved and longed for my ioye and croune so continue in the lorde ye beloved. 
I praye Evodias and beseche Sintiches that they be of one accorde in the lorde. 
Yee and I beseche the faythfull yockfelowe helpe the wemen which labored with me in the gospell and with Clement also and with other my labour felowes whose names are in the boke of lyfe. 
Reioyce in the Lorde alwaye and agayne I saye reioyce. 
Let youre softenes be knowen vnto all men. The lorde is even at honde. 
Be not carfull: but in all thynges shewe youre peticion vnto god in prayer and suplicacion with gevynge of thankes. 
And the peace of god which passeth all vnderstondinge kepe youre hertes and myndes in christ Iesu. 
Furthermore brethren whatsoever thinges are true whatsoever thynges are honest what soever thynges are iust whatsoever thynges are pure whatsoever thynges pertayne to love whatsoever thynges are of honest reporte: yf ther be eny verteous thynge yf there be eny laudable thynge those same have ye in youre mynde 
which ye have both learned and receaved herde and also sene in me: those thynges do and the god of peace shalbe with you. 
I reioyse in the lorde greatly that now at the last ye are revived agayne to care for me in that wherein ye were also carefull but ye lacked oportunite. 
I speake not because of necessitie. For I have learned in whatsoever estate I am therewith to be content. 
I can both cast doune my silfe I can also excede. Every where and in all thynges I am instructed both to be full and to be hongry: to have plenty and to suffre nede. 
I can do all thynges thorow the helpe of Christ which strengtheth me. 
Not wistondynge ye have well done that ye bare parte with me in my tribvlacion. 
Ye of Philippos knowe that in the begynnynge of the gospell when I departed from Macedonia no congregacion bare parte with me as concernynge gevynge and receavynge but ye only. 
For when I was in Tessalonica ye sent once and afterwarde agayne vnto my nedes: 
not that I desyre gyftes: but I desyre aboudant frute on youre parte. 
I receaved all and have plentie. I was even filled after that I had receaved of Epaphroditus that which came from you an odour that smelleth swete a sacrifice accepted and plesaunt to God. 
My god fulfill all youre nedes thorow his glorious riches in Iesu Christ. 
Vnto God and oure father be prayse for ever more. Amen. 
Salute all the sainctes in Christ Iesu. The brethren which are with me grete you. 
All the saynctes salute you: and most of all they which are of the Emperours housholde. 
The grace of oure lorde Iesu Christ be with you all. Amen. ‘Sent from Rome by Epaphroditus.’ 
