Matthew.
Chapter 6.
Take hede to youre almes. That ye geve it not in the syght of men to the intent that the wolde be sene of them. Or els ye get no rewarde of youre father which is in heven. 
When soever therfore thou gevest thine almes thou shalt not make a tropet to be blowe before the as the ypocrites do in the synagogis and in the stretis for to be preysed of men. Verely I say vnto you they have their rewarde. 
But when thou doest thine almes let not thy lyfte had knowe what thy righte had doth 
that thine almes may be secret: and thy father which seith in secret shall rewarde ye openly. 
And when thou prayest thou shalt not be as the ypocrytes are. For they love to stond and praye in the synagoges and in the corners of the stretes because they wolde be sene of men. Verely I saye vnto you they haue their rewarde. 
But when thou prayest entre into thy chamber and shut thy dore to the and praye to thy father which ys in secrete: and thy father which seith in secret shall rewarde the openly. 
And when ye praye bable not moche as the hethe do: for they thincke that they shalbe herde for their moche bablynges sake. 
Be ye not lyke them therfore. For youre father knoweth wherof ye haue neade before ye axe of him. 
After thys maner therfore praye ye. O oure father which arte in heven halowed be thy name. 
Let thy kyngdome come. Thy wyll be fulfilled as well in erth as it ys in heven. 
Geve vs this daye oure dayly breede. 
And forgeve vs oure treaspases even as we forgeve oure trespacers. 
And leade vs not into temptacion: but delyver vs from evell. For thyne is the kyngedome and the power and the glorye for ever. Amen. 
For and yf ye shall forgeve other men their treaspases youre hevenly father shall also forgeve you. 
But and ye wyll not forgeve men their trespases nomore shall youre father forgeve youre treaspases. 
Moreoure when ye faste be not sad as the ypocrytes are. For they disfigure their faces that they myght be sene of me how they faste. Verely I say vnto you they have their rewarde. 
But thou when thou fastest annoynte thyne heed and washe thy face 
that it appere not vnto men howe that thou fastest: but vnto thy father which is in secrete: and thy father which seeth in secret shall rewarde the openly. 
Se that ye gaddre you not treasure vpon the erth where rust and mothes corrupte and where theves breake through and steale. 
But gaddre the treasure togeder in heven where nether rust nor mothes corrupte and where theves nether breake vp nor yet steale. 
For where soever youre treasure ys there will youre hertes be also. 
The light of the body is thyne eye. Wher fore if thyne eye besyngle all thy body shalbe full of light. 
But and if thyne eye be wycked then all thy body shalbe full of derckenes. Wherfore yf the light that is in the be darckenes: how greate is that darckenes. 
No man an serve two masters. For ether he shall hate the one and love the other: or els he shall lene to the one and despise the other: ye can not serve God and mammon. 
Therfore I saye vnto you be not carefull for your lyfe what ye shall eate or what ye shall drincke nor yet for youre body what ye shall put on. ys not the lyfe more worth then meate and the body more of value then raymeut? 
Beholde the foules of the ayer: for they sowe not nether reepe nor yet cary into the barnes: and yet youre hevely father fedeth the. Are ye not moche better the they? 
Which of you (though he toke thought therfore) coulde put one cubit vnto his stature? 
And why care ye then for raymet? Considre the lylies of the felde how they growe. They labour not nether spynne. 
And yet for all that I saye vnto you that euen Salomon in all his royalte was not arayed lyke vnto one of these. 
Wherfore yf God so clothe the grasse which ys to daye in the felde and to morowe shalbe caste in to the fournace: shall he not moche more do the same vnto you o ye of lytle fayth? 
Therfore take no thought sayinge: what shall we eate or what shall we drincke or wherwith shall we be clothed? 
After all these thynges seke the getyls. For youre hevely father knoweth that ye have neade of all these thynges. 
But rather seke ye fyrst the kyngdome of heuen and the rightwisnes therof and all these thynges shalbe ministred vnto you. 
Care not then for the morow but let the morow care for it selfe: for the daye present hath ever ynough of his awne trouble. 
