2 Timothy.
Chapter 2.
Thou therfore my sonne be stronge in the grace that is in Christ Iesu. 
And what thynges thou hast hearde of me many bearynge witnes the same diliver to faythfull men which are apte to teache other 
Thou therfore suffre affliccion as a good soudier of Iesu Christ. 
No man that warreth entanglith him silfe with worldely busynes and that be cause he wolde please him that hath chosen him to be a soudier. 
And though a man strive for a mastery yet ys he not crouned except he strive laufully. 
The husbandman that laboreth must fyrst receave of the frutes. 
Consyder what I saye. The lorde geve the vnderstondynge in all thynges. 
Remember that Iesus Christ beynge of he sede of David rose agayne from deth accordynge to my gospell 
wherin I suffre trouble as an evyll doar even vnto bondes. But the worde of god was not bounde. 
Herefore I suffre all thinges for the electes sakes that they myght also obtayne that saluacion which is in Christ Iesu with eternall glory. 
It is a true sayinge if we be deed with him we also shall live with him. 
Yf we be pacient we shall also raigne with him. If we denye him he also shall denye vs. 
Yf we beleve not yet abideth he faithfull. He cannot denye him silfe. 
Of these thynges put them in remembraunce and testifie before the lorde that they stryve not about wordes which is to no proffet but to pervert the hearers. 
Study to shewe thy silfe laudable vnto god a workman that nedeth not to be a shamed dividynge the worde of trueth iustly. 
Vngostly and vayne voyces passe over. For they shall encreace vnto greater vngodlynes 
and their wordes shall fret even as doeth a cancre: of whose nombre ys Hymeneos and Philetos 
which as concernynge the trueth have erred sayinge that the resurreccion is past all redy and do destroye the fayth of divers persones. 
But the sure grounde of god remayneth and hath this seale: the lorde knoweth them that are his and let every man that calleth on the name of Christ departe from iniquite. 
Not withstondinge in a greate housse are not only vesselles of golde and of silver: but also of wood and of erthe some for honoure and some vnto dishonoure. 
But Yf a man purdge him silfe from suche felowes he shalbe a vessell sanctified vnto honoure mete for the lorde and prepared vnto all good workes. 
Lustes of youth avoyde and folowe rightwesnes fayth love and peace with them that call on the lorde with pure herte. 
Folisshe and vnlearned questions put from the remebrynge that they do but gendre stryfe. 
But the servaunt of the lorde must not stryve: but must be peasable vnto all men and apte to teache and one that can suffre: the evyll in meknes 
and can informe them that resist yf that god at eny tyme will geve them repentaunce for to knowe the trueth: 
that they maye come to the selves agayne out of the snare of the devyll which are now taken of him at his will. 
