THE GENERAL EPISTLE OF JUDE.
Chapter 1.
Iudas the servaunt of Iesus Christ the brother of Iames. To them which are cal and sanctified in god the father and preserved in Iesu Christ. 
Mercy vnto you and peace and love be multiplied. 
Beloved when I gave all diligence to write vnto you of the commen saluacion: it was nedfull for me to wryte vnto you to exhorte you that ye shuld continually laboure in the fayth which was once geve vnto the sayntes 
For ther are certayne craftely crept in of which it was write afore tyme vnto soche iudgement. They are vngodly and turne the grace of oure God vnto wantannes and denye God the only Lorde and oure Lorde Iesus Christ. 
My mynde is therfore to put you in remebraunce for as moche as ye once knowe this how that the Lorde (after that he had delivered the people out of Egypt) destroyed them which afterwarde beleved not. 
The angels also which kept not their fyrst estate: but lefte their awne habitacion he hath reserved in everlastinge chaynes vnder darcknes vnto the iudgement of the greate daye: 
even as Sodom and Gomor and the cities aboute them (which in lyke maner defiled them selves with fornicacion and folowed straunge flesshe) are set forth for an ensample and suffre the vengeaunce of eternall fyre. 
Lykwyse these dremers defyle the flesshe despyse rulars and speake evyll of them that are in auctoritie. 
Yet Michael the archangell when he strove agaynst the devyll and disputed about the body of Moses durst not geve raylinge sentence but sayde: the Lorde rebuke ye. 
But these speake evyll of those thinges which they knowe not: and what thinges they knowe naturally as beastes which are without reason in tho thinges they corrupte them selves. 
Wo be vnto them for they have folowed the waye of Cayn and are vtterly geven to the erroure of Balam for lukers sake and perysshe in the treason of Core. 
These are spottes which of youre kindnes feast to gedder with out feare fedynge them selves. Cloudes they are with outen water caried about of wyndes and trees with out frute at gadringe tyme twyse deed and plucked vp by the rotes. 
They are the ragynge waves of the see fominge out their awne shame. They are wandrynge starres to whom is reserved the myst of darcknes for ever. 
Enoch the seventh from Adam prophesied before of suche saying: Beholde the lorde shall come with thousandes of sayntes 
to geve iudgement agaynst all men and to rebuke all that are vngodly amonge them of all their vngodly dedes which they have vngodly committed and of all their cruell speakynges which vngodly sinners have spoken agaynst him. 
These are murmurers complayners walkynge after their awne lustes whose mouthes speake proude thynges. They have men in greate reverence be cause of a vauntage. 
But ye beloved remember the wordes which were spoken before of the Apostles of oure lorde Iesus Christ 
how that they tolde you that ther shulde be begylers in the last tyme which shuld walke after ther awne vngodly lustes. 
These are makers of sectes fleshlie havynge no sprete. 
But ye derlye beloved edyfie yovre selves in youre most holy fayth prayinge in the holy goost 
and kepe youre selves in the love of God lokinge for the mercy of oure lorde Iesus Christ vnto eternall lyfe. 
And have compassion on some separatynge them: 
and other save with feare pullinge them out of the fyre and hate the fylthy vesture of the flesshe. 
Vnto him that is able to kepe you that ye faule not and to present you fautlesse before the presence of his glory with ioye 
that is to saye to God oure saveour which only is wyse be glory maiestie dominion and power now and for ever. Amen. 
