Romans.
Chapter 12.
I beseche you therfore brethren by the mercyfulnes of God that ye make youre bodyes aquicke sacrifise holy and acceptable vnto God which is youre resonable seruynge of god. 
And fassion not youre selves lyke vnto this worlde: But be ye chaunged in youre shape by the renuynge of youre wittes that ye maye fele what thynge that good that acceptable and perfaycte will of god is. 
For I saye (thorowe the grace that vnto me geve is) to every man amonge you that noman esteme of him selfe moare then it becometh him to esteme: but that he discretely iudge of him selfe accordynge as God hath dealte to every man the measure of fayth. 
As we have many members in one body and all members have not one office: 
so we beynge many are one body in Christ and every man (amonge oure selves) one anothers members 
Seynge that we have dyvers gyftes accordynge to the grace that is geven vnto vs: yf eny man have the gyft of prophesye let him have it that it be agreynge vnto the fayth. 
Let him that hath an office wayte on his office. Let him that teacheth take hede to his doctrine. 
Let him that exhorteth geve attendaunce to his exhortacion. Yf eny man geve let him do it with singlenes. Let him that ruleth do it with diligence. Yf eny man shewe mercy let him do it with cherfulnes. 
Let love be with out dissimulacion. Hate that which is evyll and cleave vnto that which is good. 
Be kynde one to another with brotherly love. In gevynge honoure goo one before another. 
Let not that busynes which ye have in honde be tedious to you. Be fervet in the sprete. Applye youre selves to the tyme. 
Reioyce in hope. Be paciet in tribulacion. Continue in prayer. 
Distribute vnto the necessite of the saynctes and diligently to harboure. 
Blesse the which persecute you: blesse but course not. 
Be mery with the that are mery. Wepe with them that wepe. 
Be of lyke affeccion one towardes another. Be not hye mided: but make youreselves equall to the of the lower sorte. Be not wyse in youre awne opinions. 
Recompence to no man evyll fore evyll. Provyde afore honde thinges honest in the syght of all men. 
Yf it be possible howbe it of youre parte have peace with all men. 
Derly beloued avenge not youre selves but geve roume vnto the wrath of God. For it is written: vengeaunce is myne and I will rewarde saith the lorde. 
Therfore yf thyn enemy honger fede him: yf he thurst geve him drinke. For in so doynge thou shalt heape coles of fyre on his heed: 
Be not overcome of evyll: But overcome evyll with goodnes. 
