Matthew.
Chapter 3.
In those dayes Ihon the Baptyst came and preached in the wildernes of Iury 
saynge; Repet the kyngdome of heue is at honde. 
This is he of whom it is spoken by the Prophet Esay which sayeth: The voyce of a cryer in wyldernes prepare the Lordes waye and make hys pathes strayght. 
This Ihon had hys garmet of camels heer and a gerdell of a skynne aboute his loynes. Hys meate was locustes and wylde hony. 
Then went oute to hym Ierusalem and all Iury and all the region roude aboute Iorda 
and were baptised of him in Iorda confessynge their synnes 
When he sawe many of the Pharises and of the Saduces come to hys baptism he sayde vnto the: O generacion of vipers who hath taught you to fle from the vengeauce to come? 
Brynge forth therfore the frutes belongynge to repentaunce. 
And se that the ons thynke not to saye in your selues we haue Abraham to oure father. For I saye vnto you that God is able of these stones to rayse vp chyldern vnto Abraham. 
Euen nowe is the axe put vnto the rote of the trees: soo that every tree which bringeth not forthe goode frute is hewe doune and cast into the fyre. 
I baptise you in water in toke of repentaunce: but he that cometh after me is myghtier then I whose shues I am not worthy to beare. He shall baptise you with the holy gost and with fyre: 
which hath also his fan in his hond and will pourge his floure and gadre the wheet into his garner and will burne the chaffe with vnquecheable fyre. 
Then cam Iesus from Galile to Iordan vnto Ihon to be baptised of hym. 
But Ihon forbade hym saynge: I ought to be baptysed of the: and comest thou to me? 
Iesus answered and sayd to hym: Let it be so now. For thus it becommeth vs to fulfyll all rightwesnes. Then he suffred hym. 
And Iesus assone as he was baptised came strayght out of the water. And lo heue was open over hym: and Ihon sawe the spirite of God descende lyke a doue and lyght vpon hym. 
And lo there came a voyce from heven sayng: Thys ys that my beloved sonne in whom is my delyte. 
