Matthew.
Chapter 11.
And it came to passe when Iesus had made an ende of commaundinge his .xii. disciples that he departed thence to teache and to preache in their cities. 
When Ihon beinge in preson hearde the workes of Christ he sent two of his disciples 
and sayde vnto him. Arte thou he that shall come: or shall we loke for another. 
Iesus answered and sayde vnto them. Go and shewe Ihon what ye have hearde and sene. 
The blynd se the halt goo the lepers are clensed: the deef heare the ded ryse ageyne and the glad tidinges is preached to the povre. 
And happy is he that is not offended by me. 
And as they departed Iesus begane to speake vnto the people of Ihon. What for to se wet ye out in to the wyldernes? wet ye out to se a rede shake with the wynde? 
other what wet ye out for to se? A man clothed in soofte raymet:? Beholde they that weare soofte clothing are in kynges howses. 
But what wet ye oute for to se? A prophete? Ye I saye to you and more the a prophete. 
For this is he of who it is wrytte. Beholde I sende my messenger before thy face which shall prepare thy waye before the 
Verely I saye vnto you amonge the chyldren of wemen arose there not a gretter then Ihon the baptist. Notwithstondinge he that ys lesse in the kyngdome of heven ys gretter then he. 
From the tyme of Ihon Baptist hytherto the kyngdome of heven suffreth violence and they that go to it with violence pluck it vnto them. 
For all the prophetes and the lawe prophesyed vnto to the tyme of Ihon. 
Also yf ye wyll receave it this is Helyas which shuld come. 
He that hathe eares to heare let him heare. 
But wher vnto shall I lyken this generacion? It ys lyke vnto chyldre which syt in the market and call vnto their felowes 
and saye: we have pyped vnto you and ye have not daunsed? We have morned vnto you and ye have not sorowed. 
For Ihon came nether eatinge nor drinkinge and they saye he hath the devyll. 
The sonne of man came eatinge and drinkinge and they saye beholde a glutton and drynker of wyne and a frend vnto publicans and synners. Never the later wysdome ys iustified of hir children. 
Then began he to vpbrayd the cities in which most of his miracles were done because they meded not. 
Wo be to the Chorasin. Wo be to the Betzaida: for if the miracles which were shewd in you had bene done in Tyre and Sidon they had repented longe agone in sackcloth and asshes. 
Neverthelesse I say to you: it shall be esier for Tyre and Sidon at the day of iudgement then for you. 
And thou Capernaum which art lift vp vnto heven shalt be brought doune to hell. For if the miracles which have bene done in the had bene shewed in zodom: they had remayned to this daye. 
Neverthelesse I saye vnto you: it shalbe easiar for the londe of zodom in the daye of iudgement then for the. 
At that tyme Iesus answered and sayd: I prayse the o father lorde of heven and erth because thou hast hid these thinges from the wyse and prudet and hast opened the vnto babes: 
even so father for so it pleased the. 
All thinges are geve vnto me of my father. And noma knoweth the sonne but the father: nether knoweth eny man the father save the sonne and he to whome the sonne will open him. 
Come vnto me all ye that laboure and are laden and I wyll ease you. 
Take my yoke on you and lerne of me for I am meke and lowly in herte: and ye shall fynd rest vnto youre soules. 
For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. 
