THE SECOND EPISTLE OF PAUL THE APOSTLE TO TIMOTHY.
Chapter 1.
Paul an Apostle of Iesu Christ by the will of God to preache the promes of lyfe which lyfe is in Christ Iesu. 
To Timothe his beloved sonne. Grace mercy and peace from God the father and from Christ Iesu oure Lorde. 
I thanke god whom I serve from myne elders with pure consciece that with out ceasynge I make mencion of the in my prayres nyght and daye 
desyrynge to se the myndfull of thy teares: so that I am filled with ioye 
when I call to remembraunce the vnfayned fayth that is in the which dwelt fyrst in thy graumoder Lois and in thy mother Eunica: and am assured that it dwelleth in the also. 
Wherfore I warne the that thou stere vp the gyfte of god which is in the by the puttynge on of my hondes. 
For god hath not geven to vs the sprete of feare: but of power and of love and of sobrenes of mynde. 
Be not a shamed to testyfye oure lorde nether be a shamed of me which am bounde for his sake: but suffre adversite with the gospell also thorow the power of god 
which saved vs and called vs with an holy callinge not acordinge to oure dedes but accordynge to his awne purpose and grace which grace was geve vs thorowe Christ Iesu before the worlde was 
but is nowe declared openly by the appearynge of oure savioure Iesu Christ which hath put away derth and hath brought lyfe and immortalite vnto light thorow the gospell 
whervnto I am apoynted a preacher and an Apostle and a teacher of the gentyls: 
for the which cause I also suffre these thinges. Neverthelesse I am not a shamed For I knowe who I have beleved and am sure that he is able to kepe that which I have committed to his kepynge agaynst that daye. 
Se thou have the ensample of the holsome wordes which thou heardest of me in fayth and love which is in Iesu Christ. 
That good thinge whiche was committed to thy kepynge kepe in the holy goost which dwelleth in vs. 
This thou knowest how that all they which are in Asia be turned from me. Of which sorte are Phigelos and hermogenes. 
The lorde geve mercie vnto the housse of Onesiphoros for he ofte refresshed me and was not a shamed of my chayne: 
but when he was at Rome he sought me out very diligently and founde me. 
The lorde graunt vnto him that he maye fynde mercie with the lorde at that daye. And in how many thynges he ministred vnto me at Ephesus thou knowest very wel. 
