THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO


CHAPTER I. 

THE ARRIVAL AT MARSEILLES. 

On the 24th of February, 1815, the Marseilles port lookouts sig- 
nalled that the three-master Pharaoh was coming up the harbor. 
She belonged to Morrel and Son, and was homeward bound from 
Smyrna, Trieste and Naples. The pilot boat ran out to meet her, 
and the idters congregated on the waterside to see her come into 
her mooring-place, with the more interest as she had been built, 
launched and fitted out from this ancient port. 

She came in so slowly that it was easy to guess that she had 
met some mishap, not to herself, as she was in trim condition, but 
to some one aboard. By the pilot was seen, standing to transmit 
his orders, a bright-eyed and active young man. 

The vague disquiet of the spectators was peculiarly sharper in 
one of them who took a boat and man, and was rowed out to meet 
the vessel. 

On seeing him draw near, the ship’s officer left the pilot and 
with his hat off went to lean over tiie taffrail. 

He was a handsome fellow not over twenty, tall but slim, with 
beautiful black eyes and ebony hair, with all the calmness and 
resolution of those inured from childhood to wrestle with dangers. 

“ Ah, is this you, Dantes ? ” hailed the passenger in the wherry, 
41 what is wrong and why do you all wear such a sad look? ” 

“ A great misfortune befell us, M. Morrel,” replied the young 
man, “ and worse for me ; off Civita Vecchia, we lost our honest 
Captain Leclere ” 

-&lt; But the cargo ? *’ quickly asked the shipowner. 

“ That is safe in port, and I believe you will be satisfied on that 
score ; but poor Captain Leclere is dead-*not fallen overboard, 
but carried off by brain fever,’ * 


f % THE COVNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

He turned aside to set bis crew to work for the letting go the an* 
chor and taking in sail. 

“ How did all this happen?” asked the shipmaster, resuming 
when the young commander returned to him. 

“ Most unexpectedly ; after a long talk with the harbormaster 
at Naples, our skipper came aboard in a fret and the fever break- 
ing out in a day, he was done for in three. We gave him the sea- 
man’s funeral, and I bring to his widow his sword and cross of the 
Legion of Honor — it was much good his waging war at sea for ten 
years against the British to die in his bed like the stay-at-homes at 
last,” sighed the young man. 

44 Never mind, Edmond, we are all mortal,” returned the ship- 
owner, seeming to be more and more consoled, 4 4 and the old must 
give place to the young or there would be no promotion ; and as 
long as you encourage me about the cargo ’ ’ 

44 1 answer for its being in a good state, M. Morrel ; I would not 
advise you to sell without twenty-five thousand profit.” 

He turned to issue orders, carried out as on a war-ship. 

The ship went on so slowly now that the ship-master could step 
aboard. 

44 Here is your supercargo coming on deck, to supply you with 
full information.” 

Supercargo Danglars was a man of twenty-five, of a moody cast 
of countenance ; obsequious to his superiors he was insolent to his 
inferiors ; besides his being the purser, which is always an object 
of aversion to seamen, he was as badly viewed by the crew as 
Dantes was liked. 

“Well, M. Morrel,” said Danglars. “you have heard of the 
misfortune? ” 

44 Yes — yes ! poor Baptain Leclere ! He was a brave and hon- 
est man ! M 

44 And a first-rate seaman, grown old between sky and sea, as 
should a man charged with the interests of a house so important as 
Morrel and Son,” replied Danglars. 

44 But/’ replied the owner, following with his look Dant&amp;s, who 
was watching the anchoring, 44 it seems to me that a sailor needs 
not to be so old as you say, Danglars, to understand his business ; 
for our friend Edmond seems to understand it thoroughly, and 
not to require instruction from any one.” 

44 Yes,” said Danglars, casting towards Edmond a look in which 
envy was strongly visible. 44 Yes, he is young, and youth is in- 
variably self-confident. Scarcely was the captain’s breath out of 
his body than he assumed the command without consulting any 
one, and he caused us to lose a day and a half at the Isle of Elba, 
instead of making for Marseilles direct.” 

• # As to taking the command of the vessel,” replied Morrel, 
* that was his duty as mate ; as to losing a day and a half off the 
Isle of Elba, he was wrong, unless the ship wanted repairs.” . 


THE COUNT OR V ONTE CRI^Q, 5 

•'The ship was as sound as I am, and as, I hope, you fata M. 
Morrel, and this time was lost from pure whim, for the pleasure of 
going ashore, and nothing else. ’ 

" Dantes ! ” said the shipowner, turning towards the young man, 
• 4 come this way ! ” 

"In a moment, sir,” answered Dantes. Then calling to the 
crew, he said — " Let go ! ” 

The anchor was instantly dropped, and the chain ran rattling 
through the port-hole. Dantes continued at his post in spite of the 
presence of the pilot, until this manoeuvre was completed, and 
then he added, " Half-mast the flags and stay the yards ashore.” 
"You see,” said Danglars, " he fancies himself captain already, 
upon my word.” 

" And so, in fact, he is,” said the owner. 

" Except your signature and your partner’s, M. Morrel.” 

" And why should he not have this ? ” asked the owner ; " he 
is young, it is true, but he seems to me a thorough seaman, and of 
full experience.” 

A cloud passed over Danglars’ brow. " Your pardon, M. Mor- 
rel,” said Dantes, approaching, " the ship now rides at anchor, 
and I am at your service. You hailed me, I think? ” 

Danglars retreated a step or two. " I wished to inquire why 
you stopped at the Isle of Elba ? ” 

" I do not know, sir ; it was to fulfill a last instruction of Cap- 
tain Leclere, who, when dying, gave me a packet for Marshal 
Bertrand.” 

Morrel looked around him, and then, drawing Dantes on one 
side, he said suddenly — *' And how is the emperor ? ” 

" Very well, as far as I could judge ^om my eyes. He entered 
the apartment whilst I was there.” 

•• And you spoke to him ? ” 

" He asked me questions about the ship, the time it left Mar- 
seilles, the course she had taken, and what was her cargo. I be- 
lieve, if she had not been laden, and I had been her master, he 
would have bought her. But I told him I was only mate, and 
that she belonged to Morrel and Son. ‘Ah! ha! ’ he said, ' I 
know them ! The Morrels have been ship-owners for generations, 
though one was a soldier, who served in the same garrison with 
me, at Valence.’ ” 

"By Jove, that is true,” exclaimed Morrel delighted, "he 
means my uncle Policar, who became a captain. Dantes, tell him 
that the emperor remembered him and you will see the old veteran 
look moist about the eyes. Come, come,” added he, slapping 
ffie young officer on the shoulder, " you were quite right to follow 
Leclere’ s instructions and stop at Elba, though you might be both- 
?red if known you handed a packet to the marshal and chatted 
with the exile.” 

" How could it entangle me?” said Dantes, " I did not know 


6 the count of monte crjsto . 

^rha)t I carried and the emperor only spoke to me as to any fieKt 
man. But here tome the medical officers and the customs — ” 

“ Attend to them,” said Morrel whom Danglars approached, 
asking him if he were satisfied with the explanations. 

“But,” said he, “how about the letter of Leclere’s which he 

left at Porto Ferrajo 1 was passing the cabin door when I saw 

that given. But unless he gave you it, I may be mistaken — say 
nothing to him.” 

Dant&amp;s returned, having settled everything, anu tne ship-owner 
asked him to dinner. 

“Excuse me,” said Edmond, “ but I always pay my first v^isit 
to my father.” 

“ Right, Dantes, quit* right. I always knew you were a good 
son.” 

“And,” inquired Dantes, with some hesitation, “ do you know 
how my father is? ” 

“ Well, I believe, my dear Edmond, though I have not seen 
him lately.” 

“ Yes, he likes to keep himself shut up in his little room.” 

“ That proves, at least, that he has wanted for nothing during 
your absence.” 

Dantes smiled. “My father is proud, sir ; and if he had not a 
meal left, I doubt if he would have asked anything from any one, 
except God.” 

“ Weil, then, after this first visit has been made we rely on 
you.” 

“I must again excuse myself, M. Morrel; for after this first 
visit has been paid I have another, which I am most anxious to 
pay.” 

“ True, Dant&amp;s, I forgot that there was at the Catalans some one 
who expects you no less impatiently than your father— the lovely 
Mercedes.” 

Dant&amp;s blushed. 

“ Ah ! ah ! ” said the ship-owner, “ that does not astonish me, 
for she has been to me three times, inquiring if there were any 
news. Edmond, you have a very handsome flame.” 

“ She is not my flame,” replied the young sailor, gravely ; “ she 
is my betrothed .’ 9 

“ Well, well, my dear Edmond,” continued the owner, “ do not 
let me detain you. You have managed my affairs so well that I 
ought to allow you all the time you require for your own. Do you 
want any money ? ” 

“No, sir; I have all my pay to take— nearly three months® 
wages.” 

“You are a careful fellow, Edmond.” 

“ Say I have a poor father, sir.” 

“ Yes, yes, I know how good a son you are, so now haste away 
to see your father. I have a son, too, and I should be very wroth 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. J 

trith those who detained him from me after a three months* voy- 
age." 

* ‘‘Then I have your leave, sir?** 

44 Yes, if you have nothing more to say to me.** 

44 Nothing.” 

44 Captain Leclere did not, before he died, give you a letter for 
me ? M 

4 4 He was unable to write, sir. But that reminds me that I must 
ask your leave of absence for some days.’* 

14 To get married ? ” 

“Yes, first, and then to go to Paris.” 

44 Very good ; have what time you require, Dantfcs. It will 
take quite six weeks to unload the cargo, and we can not get you 
ready for sea until three months after that ; only be back again in 
three months, for the Pharaoh,” added the owner, patting the 
sailor on the back, 44 cannot sail without her captain.” 

44 Without her captain ! ” cried Dantes, his eyes sparkling with 
animation ; 44 pray, mind what you say, for you are touching on 
the most secret wishes of my heart. Is it really your intention to 
nominate me captain? ” 

44 If I were sole owner I would appoint you this moment, my 
dear Dantes, and say it is settled ; but I have a partner, and you 
know the Italian proverb — 4 He who has a partner has a master.* 
But the thing is at least half done, as you have one out of two 
voices. Rely on me to procure you the other ; I will do my 
best.” 

44 Ah! M. Morrel,” exclaimed the seaman, with tears in his 
eyes, and grasping the owner’s hand, 44 I thank you in the name 
of my father and of Mercedes. ** 

44 Stay, Dantes — if you command, would you keep Danglars 
aboard ? * * 

44 1 always respect my owners* choice.** 

44 1 see you are a good-hearted fellow ; but I will not detain you. 
Good fortune ! ” 

The speaker watched the youth proceed to shore in a row boat, 
and Danglars did the same, but with hatred. 


CHAPTER II. 

FATHER AND SON. 

Dantes passed through the town after landing, to Meillans 
Alley, where he entered a small house ; ascending four flights, he 
peeped into a little room. 

This apartment was occupied by Dantfcs* father. The news of 
the arrival had not yet reached the old man, who, mounted on a 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


chair, was amusing himself with staking some nasturtiums which, 
mingled with clematis, formed a trellis at his window. Suddenly, 
he felt an arm thrown round his body, and a well-known voice be- 
hind him exclaimed, “ Father! dear father! ” 

The old man uttered a cry, and turned round ; then, seeing his 
son, he fell into his arms, pale and trembling. 

“Come, come, cheer up, my dear father! ’Tis I — really I! 
They say joy never hurts, and so I come to you without any warn- 
ing. Come now, look cheerfully at me, instead of gazing as you 
do with your eyes so wide. Here I am back again, and we will 
now be happy.’* 

“ Yes, yes, my boy, so we wil^-," replied the old man ; “but 
how shall we be happy ? Will you never leave me again? Come, 
tell me all the good fortune that has befallen you.” 

“God forgive me,” said the young man, “for rejoicing at happiness 
derived from the misery of others ; but, Heaven knows, I did not 
seek this good fortune : it has happened, and I really cannot affect 
to lament it. Our good Captain Leclere is dead, father, and it is 
probable that, with the aid of M. Morrel, I shall have his place. 
Do you understand, father ? Only imagine me a captain at twenty, 
with a hundred louis pay, and a share in the profits! Is this not 
more than a poor sailor like me could have hoped for ? ” 

“Yes, my dear boy,” replied the old man, “ and much more 
than you could have expected.” 

“ Well, then, with the first money I touch, I mean you to have a 
small house, with a garden. But what ails you, father? Are not 
you well ? ” 

“’Tis nothing, nothing; it will soon pass away and as he 
said so the old man’s strength failed him, and he fell backwards. 

“ Come, come,” said the young man, “ a glass of wine, father, 
will revive you. Where do you keep you wine ? ” 

“ No, no ; thank ye. You need not look for it ; I do not want 
it,” said the old man. 

“Yes, yes, father, tell me where it is,” and lie opened two or 
three cupboards. 

“ It is no use,” said the old man, “ there is no wine.” 

“ What ! no wine ? ” said Dantes, turning pale, and looking al« 
ternately at the hollow cheeks of the old man and the empty cup- 
boards, “ What ! no wine ? Have you wanted money, father? ” 
“ I want nothing since I see you,” said the old man. 

“Yet,” stammered Dantes, wiping the perspiration from his 
brow, — “ yet I gave you two hundred francs when I left, three 
months ago.” 

“ Yes, yes, Edmond, that is true, but you forgot at that time a 
little debt to our neighbor, Caderousse. He reminded me of it, 
telling me if I did not pay for you, he would go to M. Morrel ; and 
so* you see, lest he might do you an injury, I paid him.” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. g 

••But/* cried Dantes, 44 it was a hundred and forty francs I 
owed Caderousse.” 

“ Ye-es,’* faltered the old man. 

** Then you have only had sixty francs to live on these three 
months? You rend my heart ! But I am home with fine prospects 
and some cash.” He put some coin on the table, which made the 
old man’s eyes glisten. 

44 Nay, I will use your boon moderately; if seen to be lavish, 
folks will say I had to wait for your coming to be in funds.” 

• 4 Do as you like, but hire a servant. I have some coffee and 
tobacco which I have run past the customs-house sharks. But, 
hush ! here comes Caderousse to congratulate me — lips saying one 
thing — his heart another ! ” 

Caderousse’s black head and bearded face appeared ; he was 
a man about twenty -five ; in his hand, as a tailor, was the cloth 
for a coat-skirt. 

He grinned a welcome to Edmond and begged him not to thank 
him for the kindness to his father. 

44 Let us only talk of your happy return. I was on the quay to 
match some cloth when I met friend Danglars who told me you 
were home again. But you seem to return rich,” said he, eyeing 
the coin greedily. 

44 No, my father showed me that he had a stock when I asked 
if he had been short.” 

44 1 hear that you were in such a haste to greet your father that 
you would not dine with the shipper. That is right and yet when 
one is on the road to be captain he ought to curry favor with the 
owner! but be captain — nothing will please your friends better ! 
and I know one behind St. Nicholas fort, who will not be sorry to 
hear it ! ” 

44 Mercedes! '* exclaimed the old man. 44 Go] ah, heaven has 
blessed you in such a wife as me in such a son.” 

44 Wife ! ” repeated Caderousse ; 44 how fast you run ! Merce- 
des is a fine slip and has sweethearts by dozens ! but go to her ! ” 

He preceded Dantes, and went to join the supercargo at the 
corner whence they went to a tavern to have wine. 

44 Why did you stir up his jealousy? asked Danglars. 

44 Not at all, but she ?ias a strapping fellow with her every time 
she comes to town.” 

4 * Let us go to the Catalans ! ** 

Caderousse was ready to go anywhere as long as another paid 
the refreshment bills. They stopped at Father Pamphile’s Re* 
*erve inn while Dantes kept on his way. 


20 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


i CHAPTER lit 

THE BEAUTY OF THE CATALANS* 

The Catalans is a small half-Moorish, half-Spanish village* 
peopled by a race which does not intermix with that at Marseilles. 
It has but a single street in which a small house contained a 
beautiful girl, with hair as black as jet, and eyes as velvety as the 
gazelle’s, was leaning with her back against the wainscot, rubbing, 
in her slender fingers, a bunch of heath blossoms, the flowers of 
which she was picking off, and strewing on the floor ; her arms 
bare to the elbow, embrowned, and resembling those of the Venus 
at Arles, moved with impatience, and she tapped the earth with 
her pliant and well-formed foot, so as to display the pure and full 
shape of her well-turned leg, in its red cotton stocking with grey and 
blue clocks. At three paces from her, seated in a chair which he 
balanced on two legs, leaning his elbow on an old worm-eaten 
table, was a tall man of twenty or two-and-twenty, looking at her 
with an air in which vexation and uneasiness were mingled. He 
questioned her with his eyes, but the firm and steady gaze con- 
trolled his look. 

“You see, Mercedes,” said the young man, “here is Easter 
come round again ; tell me, is not this the moment for a wed- 
ding ? do you forget that it is among the Catalans a sacred law 
to intermarry ? ” 

“You mistake, Fernand, it is not a law, but merely a custom ; 
and, I pray, do not cite this custom in your favor. You are in- 
cluded in the conscription, Fernand, and are only at liberty on 
sufferance, liable at any moment to be called upon to take up arms. 
Once a soldier, what would you do with me, a poor orphan, for- 
lorn, without fortune, with nothing but a hut, half in ruins, con- 
taining some ragged nets — a miserable inheritance left by my 
father to my mother, and by my mother to me ? She has been 
dead a year, and you know, Fernand, I have subsisted almost 
entirely on public charity. Sometimes you pretend I am useful 
to you, and that is an excuse to share with me the produce of your 
fishing, and I accept it, Fernand, because you are the son of my 
father’s brother, because we were brought up together, and still 
more because it would give you so much pain if I refuse. But I 
feel very deeply that this fish which I go and sell, and with the 
produce of which I buy the flax I spin, — this is charity.” 

“ And if it were, Mercedes, poor and lone as you are, you suit 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


II 


me as well as the daughter of the leading ship-owner, or the 
richest banker of Marseilles ! What do such as we desire but a 
good wife and careful housekeeper, and where can I look for these 
better than in you ? ” 

“ Fernand,” answered Mercedes, shaking her head, “ a woman 
becomes a bad manager, and who shall say she will remain an 
honest wife, when she loves another man better than her hus- 
band ? I love Edmond Dantes, and i&amp;one but Edmond shall ever 
be my husband.” 

Fernand let fall his head like a defeated man, heaved a sigh 
which resembled a groan, and then suddenly looking her full in 
the face, with clenched teeth and expanded nostrils, said, — “ But 
if he is dead ’ * 

“ If he is dead, I shall die too.” 

“ If he has forgotten you ” 

“ Mercedes ! ” cried a voice, joyously, outside the house. 

“ Ah ! ” exclaimed the girl, blushing with delight, and springing 
up with love, “ you see he has not forgotten me, for here he is ! ” 
And rushing toward the door, she opened it, saying, “ Here, Ed- 
mond, here I am ! ” 

Fernand, pale and trembling, receded like a traveler at the 
sight of a serpent, and fell into a chair. Edmond and Mercedes 
were clasped in each other’s arms. The burning sun, which pene- 
trated by the open door, covered them with a flood of light. At 
first they saw nothing around them. Their intense happiness iso- 
lated them from all the rest of the world, and they only spoke in 
broken words, which are the tokens of a joy so extreme that they 
seem rather the expression of sorrow. Suddenly Edmond saw the 
gloomy countenance of Fernand, as it was defined in the shadow, 
pale and threatening, and by a movement, for which he could 
scarcely account, the young Catalan placed his hand on the knife 
at his belt. 

‘‘Ah! your pardon,” said Dantes, frowning in his turn; “I 
did not perceive that there was company.” Then, turning to 
Mercedes, he inquired, “ Who is this gentleman ? ” 

“ One who will be your best friend, Dantes, for he is my friend, 
my cousin, my brother ; it is Fernand — the man whom, after you, 
Edmond, I love the best in the world. Do you not remember 
him ? ” 

“ Yes ; but I did not know, when I came with such haste to you, 
that I was to meet an enemy here.” 

“An enemy!” cried Mercedes, with an angry look at her 
cousin. “ An enemy in my house, do you say, Edmond ! If I 
believed that, I would place my arm under yours and go with you 
to Marseilles, leaving the house to return to It no more.” 

Fernand’s eye darted lightning. “And should any misfortune 
occur to you, dear Edmond,” she continued, with the calmness 
which proved to Fernand that the girl had read the very 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


t% 

innermost depths of his sinister intention, “ if misfortune should 
occur to you, I would ascend the highest point of Cape Morgion* 
and cast myself headlong from it.*’ 

Fernand became deadly pale. " But you are deceived, Ed- 
mond/* she continued. “ You have no enemy here — there is no 
one but Fernand, my brother, who will grasp your hand as a de* 
voted friend.” 

» And at these words the girl fixed her imperious look on the 
{Catalan, who, as if fascinated by it, came slowly toward Edmond, 
’and offered him his hand. His hatred, like a powerless though 
furious wave, was broken by Mercedes’ ascendancy. But to touch 
Dantes* hand was as much as he could constrain himself to do* 
and he instantly darted out of the house. 

He was still running when he was hailed from the tavern, where 
Danglars had halted with the tailor. The latter had already im- 
bibed heavily but the treater was sober. He saw in the Catalan’s 
eye that fire of revenge and jealousy with which he might burn 
down his enemy’s castle. 

While hatching a scheme, he asked the fugitive to sit down and 
carouse. They were so engaged when the ‘ happy couple of 
Dantes and his beloved strolled along. Mercedes was talking all 
the time she could as Edmond announced that he had to go to 
Paris. 

Danglars guessed that this singular journey was linked to the 
letter he had seen confided to the acting captain and as soon as 
the pair were gone, induced Fernand to write a denunciatory let- 
ter to the royal prosecutor which would remove his rival. Cader* 
ousse. in his tipsy state, was persuaded that it was only a practical 
joke. 

“Hurrah!” said the supercargo to himself, “the thing is 
launched and will reach home without anymore urging 1 " 


CHAPTER IV. 

THE INTERRUPTED WEDDING. 

It was necessary to have the scheme ready, for Dantes had lost 
no time on his side. He wished to be married before he started 
on his mission to the capital. He had a plenteous feast prepared 
at Reserve Tavern where before noon his crew and friends as- 
sembled. Morrel also condescended to participate in the celebra- 
tion of his mate’s happiness. Fernand attended though his feat* 
ures wore a sinister smile. 

Neither Mercedes nor Edmond observed the strange expression. 

Danglars and Caderousse took their places beside Ferannd and 
old Dantes,— the latter of whom attracted universal notice, attired 


THE COUNT OF MON TE CRTS TO. 


*3 

In a suit of black, trimmed with steel buttons, beautitully cut and 
polished. Beside him crept Caderousse, whose desire to partake 
of the good things provided for the wedding-party had induced 
him to become reconciled to the Dantes, father and son, although 
there still lingered in his mind a faint recollection of events of the 
preceding night ; just as the brain retains on waking tlie dim and 
misty outlines of the dream. 

As Danglars approached the disappointed lover, he cast on him 
a look of deep meaning, while Fernand, as he paced behind the 
happy pair, entirely forgotten by the bride, was pale and abstract- 
ed : occasionally, however, a deep flush would overspread his 
countenance, and a nervous contraction distort his limbs, while he 
would glance in the direction of Marseilles, like one who either 
anticipated or foresaw some great event. 

Dantes himself was simply clad in the dress peculiar to the 
merchant navy — a costume somewhat between a military and a 
civil garb ; and his fine countenance was radiant with joy and 
happiness. 

Lovely as the Greeks Mercedes boasted the same bright eyes of 
jet and coral lips. One of great cities would have hid her glee 
beneath a veil, or, at least, have cast down her thickly-fringed 
lashes, but the girl looked around her with a smile that seemed to 
invite all who saw her to behold, and rejoice with her. 

Immediately the bridal pair came in sight of La Reserve, M. 
Morrel came forth to meet it, followed by the soilders and sailors 
there assembled, to whom he had repeated the promise already 
given, that Dantes should be the successor to the late Captain 
Leclere. Edmond, at the approach, respectfully placed the arm 
of his affianced bride within Morrel’ s, who, forthwith conducting 
her up the flight of wooden steps leading to the chamber in which 
the feast was prepared, was followed by the guests, beneath who 
they creaked and groaned. 

41 Father,* * said Mercedes, stopping when she had reached the 
centre of the table, “sit, I pray you, on my right hand ; on my 
left I will place him who has ever been a brother to me,” pointing 
with a softness to Fernand ; but inflicting torture on him, for his 
lips became ghastly pale, and even beneath the dark hue of his 
complexion the blood might be seen retreating to the heart. 

During this time, Dantes, at the opposite side of the table, had&lt; 
been occupied in placing his guests. M. Morrel was seated at his 
right hand, Danglars at his left ; while, at a sign from Edmond, 
the rest of the company ranged themselves as most agreeable. 

And now commenced the work of devastation upon the many 
$ood things with which the table was loaded. 

“A pretty silence truly ! ” said the old father of the bride- 
groom, as he carried to his lips a glass of wine of the hue of the 
tfrpaii, ju&amp;t placed before Merc£d£s herself, “ Now, would auy* 


f4 ^ THE COUNT or MONTE CRISTO. 

body think that of * r who desire nothing better than 
to laugh ? ** 

“Ah ! ” sighed Cadciousse, “ a man cannot always feel happy 
Decause he is about to be married.’* 

“The truth is,” replied Dantes, “that I am too happy for 
mirth ; that is what you meant by your observation, my worthy 
friend, you are right ; joy takes a strange effect at times, it seems 
to oppress us almost the same as sorrow.” 

" Danglars looked towards Fernand, whose excitable nature re- 
ceived and betrayed each fresh impression. 

“ Why, what ails you ? ” asked he of Edmond. “ Do you fear 
any approaching evil ? I should say that you were the happiest 
man alive at this instant.” 

“ And that is the very thing that alarms me,** returned Dantes. 
“ Man does not appear to me to be intended to enjoy felicity so 
unmixed ; happiness is like the enchanted palaces where dragons 
defend the entrance ; and monsters to be overcome. I own that I 
am lost in wonder to find myself promoted to an honor of which 
I feel myself unworthy — that of being the husband of Mercedes.’* 

“Nay, nay!” cried Caderousse, smiling, “you have not at- 
tained that honor yet. Mercedes is not yet your wife. Just as- 
sume the tone and manner of a husband, and see how she will re- 
mind you that your hour is not yet come ! ** 

The bride blushed, and seemed half-inclined to be angry ; while 
Fernand, restless and uneasy, seemed to start at every fresh sound, 
occasionally applying his handkerchief to his brow to wipe away 
the large drops of perspiration. 

“Well, never mind that, neighbor Caderousse ; it is not worth 
while to contradict me for such a trifle as that. ’Tis true that 
Mercedes is not actually my wife ; but,” added he, drawing out 
his watch, “in an hour and a half from this she will be fast and 
firm.” 

A general exclamation of surprise ran round the table, with the 
exception of the elder Dantes, whose laugh displayed still perfect 
teeth. Mercedes looked pleased, while Fernand grasped the 
handle of his knife with a convulsive clutch. 

“In an hour?” inquired Danglars, turning pale. “How is 
that, my friend ? ” 

“Why, thus it is,” replied Dantes. “Thanks to the influence 
of M. Morrel, to whom, next to my father, I owe every blessing I 
enjoy, every difficulty has been removed. We have purchased 
permission ; and at half-past two o’clock the Mayor of Marseilles 
will be waiting for us. Now, as a quarter-past one has already 
struck, I do not consider I have asserted too much in saying, that 
in another hour and thirty minutes Mercedes will have become 
Mdme. Dantes.” 

Fernand closed his eyes, a burning sensation passed across his 
brow, and he was compelled to support himself by the table to 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


prevent his falling from his chair ; but in spite of all his efforts, 
ne could not refrain from uttering a deep groan, which, however, 
was lost amid the felicitations of the company. 

“Upon my word," cried the old man, “ you make short work. 
Arrived here only yesterday morning, and married to-day at three 
©’clock ! Commend me to a sailor for going the quick way to 
work ! " 

“So that what we presumed to be merely the betrothal feast 
turns out to be the actual wedding dinner ! ” said Danglars. 

“No, no ! " answered Dantes ; “ you shall lose nothing by it — 
rest easy ! To-morrow morning, I am off to Paris, so that with 
my task properly done in a day I can go and return in eight. Back 
on the first of March, the second shall be the regular wedding 
feast." 

This prospect of additional junketting doubled the jollity so that 
the elder Dantes, who had at the outset complained of the party 
being quiet, was making vain efforts amid the babble, to propose 
his toast to the happiness of the engaged pair. Divining his in- 
tention, Edmond rewarded him with a smile of affection, and 
Mercedes glanced at the cuckoo clock and made a sign to her 
affianced one. 

At this moment Danglars, who had not lost sight of Fernand’s 
look and manner, perceived him stagger and fall back, with an 
almost convulsive spasm, against a seat placed near one of the open 
windows. At the same instant the ear caught a sort of indistinct 
sound on the stairs, followed by the measured tread of soldiery, 
with the clanking of swords and accoutrements ; then came a hum 
of voices, so as to deaden even the mirth of the bridal party, 
among whom a vague feeling of curiosity and apprehension quelled 
every disposition to talk, and almost instantaneously uneasy still- 
ness prevailed. 

Nearer and nearer came those sounds of terror. Three distinct 
knocks came. Each looked inquiringly in the countenance of his 

neighbor. 

“I demand admittance," said a loud voice outside the room, 
“in the name of the law !" As no attempt was made to prevent 
it, the door was opened, and a magistrate, wearing his official 
scarf, presented himself, followed by four soldiers and a corporal. 
Uneasiness now yielded to dread. 

“May J inquire the reason of this unexpected visit ?" said M, 
Morrel, addressing the magistrate, whom he knew ; “there is 
doubtless some mistake." 

“ If it be so," replied the magistrate, “rely upon every repara- 
tionbeing made ; meanwhile, I am the bearer of an order of arrest, 
and although I most reluctantly perform the task assigned me, it 
must, nevertheless, be fulfilled. Who among the persons answers 
to the name of Edmond Dantes?" Every eye was turned towards 
She individual so described, who, spite of the agitation he could 


i6 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


not but feel, advanced with dignity, and said, in a firm voice, ••£ 
am he ; what is your pleasure with me?” 

“ Edmond Dantes,” replied the magistrate, “ I arrest you in the 
name of the law !” “ Me 1” repeated Edmond, slightly changing 

color, “ and wherefore ?” 

11 1 cannot inform you, but you will be acquainted at your first 
examination.” 

“What is the meaning of all this?” inquired Caderousse, frown- 
ingly, of Danglars, who had assumed an air of utter surprise. 

“ How can 1 tell vou?” replied he ; “ I am, like yourself, utterly 
bewildered at all that is going on, not a word of which do I under- 
stand.” Caderousse then looked around for Fernand, but he had 
disappeared. 

“ Where is Fernand?” inquired Caderousse. 

“ How do I know?” replied Danglars ; “gone, as every prudent 
man ought to do, to look after his own affairs, most likely. Never 
mind where he is, let you and I go and see what is to be done for 
our poor friends in affliction.” 

During this conversation, Dant&amp;s, after having exchanged a 
cheerful shake of the hand with.all his sympathizing friends, had 
surrendered himself, merely saying, “Make yourselves quite 
easy, there is some little mistake to clear up, and very likely I may 
not have to go so far as the prison.” 

“Oh, to be sure !” responded Danglars, who approached, “ noth- 
ing more.” 

Dantes descended the staircase, preceded by the magistrate, and 
followed by the soldiers. A carriage awaited him at the door ; he 
got in, followed by two soldiers and the magistrate, and the vehicle 
drove off towards Marseilles. 

“ Adieu ! adieu ! dearest Edmond 1” cried Merc£d&amp;s, springing 
out on the balcony. 

The prisoner caught the sob of his betrothed, from her heart, as 
leaning from the coach he cried — “ Good-bye, Mercddes !” The 
vehicle disappeared i 'mnd one of the turnings of Fort Saint 
Nicolas. 

“Wait for me here!” cried M. Morrel ; “ I will take the first 
conveyance I find, and hurry to Marseilles, whence I will bring 
you word.” 

“That’s right!” exclaimed all voices ; “go, and return as 
quickly as you can !” 

This second departure was followed by terrified stupor on the 
part of those left behind. The old father and Mercedes remained 
for some time apart, each absorbed in grief; but at length the 
victims of the same blow raised their eyes, and rushed into each 
other’s arms. 

Called upon for an explanation, Danglars suggested that his 
captain might have been smuggling and this was confirmed by old 
Dantes confessing that his son had promised him some coffee and 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. I? 

tobacco. This had no soothing effect on the girl, who continued 
sobbing. 

After the other’s departure, Fernand again become protector 
to Mercedes, led the girl back to her home, while friends of Dantes 
conducted the parent to his abode. 

The rumor of Edmond’s arrest as a Bonapartist agent was not 
slow in circulating throughout the city. 

•* Could you ever have credited such a thing, my dear Dang- 
lars ?" asked M. Morrel, as, on his return to the port for the pur- 
pose of gleaning fresh tidings of Dantes, he overtook his super- 
cargo and Caderousse. “ Could you have believed such a thing?" 

“Why, you know I told you,’’ replied Danglars, “ that I con- 
sidered his having anchored at the isle of Elba as very suspicious." 

“And did you mention these- suspicions to any person beside 
myself? ’’ 

“Certainly not!" returned Danglars. Then added in a low 
whisper, “You understand that, on account of your uncle, M. 
Policar Morrel, who served under the other government, and who 
does not altogether conceal what he thinks on the subject, you are 
strongly suspected of regretting the abdication of Napoleon. I 
should injure both Edmond and yourself to a soul. A subordinate, 
is bound to acquaint the ship-owner with everything that occurs, 
but many things he ought most carefully to conceal from all else." 

“ ’Tis well, Danglars — ’tis well !" replied M. Morrel. 11 You are 
a worthy fellow ; and I had already thought of your interests in the 
event of poor Edmond having become captain of the Pharaoh. 
I had previously inquired of Dantes what was his opinion 
of you, and if he should have any reluctance to continue 
you in your post, for somehow I have perceived coolness between 
you two that led me to believe that he would rather have another 
in you place as supercargo.” 

“ He certainly did think he had given you offence in an affair 
which he merely referred to without entering into particulars, but 
that whoever possessed the good opinion and confidence of the 
ship’s owners would have his preference also." 

“The hypocrite!" murmured Danglars between his teeth. 
“ But now hasten on board, I will join you there ere long." So 
saying, the worthy ship owner quitted the two allies, and pro- 
ceeded. 

“You sed," said Danglars, addressing Caderousse, “the tu*n 
things have taken. Do you still feel any desire to stand up in hi* 
defence ? " 

“ Not the slightest, but yet it seems to me a shocking thing a 
mere joke should lead to such consequences." 

“ But who perpetrated that joke, let me ask ? neither you nor 
myself, but Fernand : you knew very well that I threw the paper 
into a corner of the arbor, — indeed, I fancied 1 had destroyed it." 
“ On, no l" replied Caderousse, “ that I can answer for, you did 
2 


i3 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


not. I only wish I could see it now as plainly as I saw it lying 
crumpled in a corner.” 

“ Well, then, if you did, depend upon it, Fernand picked it up, 
and either copied it or caused it to be copied ; perphaps, even, he 
did not take the trouble of recopying it. And now I think of it, by 
Heavens! he has sent the letter itself ! Fortunately, for me, the 
handwriting was disguised.” 

“Then you were aware of Dant&amp;s being engaged in a 
conspiracy ? ” 

‘•Not I. As I before said, I thought the whole thing was a joke, 
nothing more. It seems, however, that I have stumbled upon the 
truth.” 

“ Still,” argued Caderousse, “ I would give a great deal if noth- 
ing of the kind had happened ; or, at least, that I had had no 
hand in it. You will see, Danglars, that it will turn out an unlucky 
job for both of us.” 

“ Nonsense ! If any harm comes of it, it should fall on the 
guilty person ; and that, you know, is Fernand. How can we be 
implicated in any way ? All we have got to do is, to keep our own 
counsel, and remain perfectly quiet, not breathing a word to any 
living soul ; and you will see that the storm will pass away.” 

“ Amen ! ” responded Caderousse, waving his hand in token of 
adieu to Danglars, and, moving his head to and fro, and muttering 
as he went, after the manner of one whose mind was overcharged. 

“So far, then,” said Danglars, mentally, “all has gone as I 
would have it. I am, temporarily, commander of the Pharaoh, 
with the certainty of being permanently so, if that fool Caderousse 
can be persuaded to hold his tongue. My only fear is the chance 
of Dantes being released. But bah! he is in the hands of Jus- 
tice; and,” added he, with a smile, “she will keep her prey.” 
So saying, he leaped into a boat, desiring to be rowed on board 
the Pharaoh, where M. Morrel had appointed to meet him. 


CHAPTER V. 

THE DEPUTY PROSECUTOR. 

In one of the large mansions situated in the Rue du Grand 
Cours opposite the fountain of Medusas, a second marriage-feast 
was being celebrated, almost at the same hour with the ill-fated 
nuptial repast given by Dantes. 

The guests were still at table, and the heated and energetic con- 
versation that prevailed betrayed the violent and vindictive pas- 
sions that then agitated each Southron, where, unhappily, religious 
itrife had long given increased bitterness to the violence of party 
feeling. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


19 

The emperor, now king of the petty isle of Elba, was looked 
Upon as a ruined man, separated for ever from any fresh connec- 
tion with France or claim to her throne. 

An old man, decorated with the cross of Saint Louis, now rose 
and proposed the health of King Louis XVIII. This aged individ- 
ual was the Marquis of Saint-Meran. This toast excited universal 
enthusiasm ; glasses were elevated in the air, and the ladies, 
snatching their bouquets from their fair bosoms, strewed the table 
with their floral treasures. In a word, an almost poetical fervor 
prevailed. 

“ Ah!” said the Marchioness of Saint-Meran, a woman with a 
stern, forbidding eye, though still noble and elegant-looking, de- 
spite her having reached her fiftieth year — 44 ah ! these revolution- 
ists, who have driven us from those very possessions they after- 
wards purchased for a mere trifle during the Reign of Terror, 
would be compelled to own, were they here, that all true devotion 
was on our side ; yes, yes, they could not help admitting that th&lt;e 
king, for whom we sacrificed rank, wealth, and station, was truly 
our ‘Louis the Well-beloved,' while their wretched usurper has 
been, and ever will be, to them their evil genius, their 4 Napoleon 
the accursed.’ Am I not right, Villefort? 

“ I beg your pardon, madame. I really must pray you to excuse 
me, but — in truth — I was not attending to the conversation.” 

41 Lady,” interposed the same elderly personage who had pro- 
posed the toast, 44 let the young people alone ; let me tell you, oa 
one’s wedding day there are more agreeable subjects than poli- 
tics.” 

44 Never mind, dearest mother/* said a lovely girl, with a profu- 
sion of light brown hair, and eyes that seemed to float in liquid 
pearl, 44 ’tis all my fault for seizing upon M. c^e Villefort, so as to 
prevent his listening to what you said. But there — now take him 
— he is your own for as long as you like. M. Villefort, I beg to re- 
mind you my mother speaks to you.” 

44 If my lady will deign to repeat the words I but imperfectly 
caught, I shall be delighted to answer,” said M. de Villefort. 

44 Never mind, Renee,” replied the marchioness, with such a 
look of tenderness as all were astonished to see her harsh dry feat- 
ures capable of expressing ; for, however all other feelings may be 
withered in a woman’s nature, there is always one bright smiling 
spot in the maternal breast, and that is where a dearly-beloved 
child is concerned , — 44 1 forgive you. What I was saying, Ville. 
fort, was, that the Bonapartists had neither our sincerity, enthusi- 
asm, nor devotion.” 

“They had, however, what supplied the place of those fine 
qualities,” replied the young man, &lt;c and that was fanaticism. 
Napoleon is the Mahomet of the West, and is worshipped by his 
commonplace but ambitious followers, not only a? a leader and 
lawgiver, but also as the personification of equality. He has still 


20 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


preserved a train of parasitical satellites. Still, it has been so with 
other usurpers : Cromwell, for instance, who was not half so bad 
as Napoleon, had his partisans and advocates.” 

“Do you know, Villefort, that you are talking in a most dread- 
fully revolutionary strain ? But I excuse it ; it is impossible to ex- 
pect the son of a Girondin to be free from the old leaven.” A 
deep crimson suffused the countenance of Villefort. 

“ ’Tis true,” answered he, “ that my father was a Girondin, but 
he was not among the number of those who vdfced for the king’s 
death. For my own part, I have laid aside even the name of my 
father, and altogether disown his political principles. He was — 
nay, probably may still be — a Bonapartist, and is called Noirtier ; 
I, on the contrary, am a stanch royalist, and style myself de Ville- 
fort. Let what may remain of revolutionary sap exhaust itself and 
die away with the old trunk, and condescend only to regard the 
young shoot which has started up at a distance from the parent 
tree, without having the power, any more than the wish, to separate 
entirely from the stock from which it sprung.” 

“Bravo, Villefort!” cried the marquis; “excellently well 
said ! Come, now, I have hopes of obtaining what I have been 
for years endeavoring to persuade my lady to promise, namely, 
perfect amnesty and forgetfulness of the past.” 

“ With all my heart,” replied the marchioness ; “let the past be 
for ever forgotten ! I promise you it affords me as little pleasure to 
revive it as it does you. All I ask is, that Villefort will be firm and 
inflexible for the future in marking his political principles. Re- 
member also, Villefort, that we have pledged ourselves to his maj- 
esty for your fealty and strict loyalty, and that at our recommenda- 
tion the king consented to forget the past, as I do” (and here she 
extended to him hbr hand) — “ at your entreaty. Only, if any con- 
spirator falls under your hand, mark that you will have the more 
eyes on you from the knowledge that you belong to a line perhaps 
connected with the plotters.” 

“Alas, my profession and the times we live in,” returned the 
lawyer, “order me to be severe. I will be so. I have carried 
some political trials through, and have proven how I stand. We 
are not at the end, eMier.” 

“ Do you believe so ? ” asked the old dame. 

“ I am afraid so. On the Island of Elba Napoleon is too near 
to France ; almost in sight of our shores, his proximity nourishes 
his partisans' hopes. Marseilles is full of retired officers of his, 
who daily pick quarrels under flimsy pretexts with the royalists ; 
hence duels among the higher classes and murders among the 
low.” 

“ I wish you would get up a notable trial,” exclaimed Salvieux’s 
daughter, a bright friend of Renee’s, “I have never seen a case 
in court. I am told it is entertaining.” 

“ Very ; for instead of a sham drama you have the genuine one. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


21 


where the villain is led off the stage reauy to go upon the scaffold. 
You shall have such a sight, and I wish the chance came early ! ” 

At this moment, and as though the utterance of Villefort’ s wish 
had sufficed to effect its accomplishment, a servant entered the 
room, and whispered a few words. Villefort immediately rose 
from table and quitted the room upon the plea of urgent business : 
he soon, however, returned, his whole face beaming with delight. 

“ And wherefore were you called away just now?” asked 
Mdlle. de Saint-Meran, with an air of deep interest. 

‘‘For a very serious affair, Bonaparte conspiracy has just been 
discovered.” 

“ Can I believe my ears? ” cried the marquise. 

“ The Royal Prosecutor is informed by a friend to the Throne 
*nd Religion that one Edmond Dantes, first mate of the ship 
Pharaoh , in this morning from Smyrna, after touching at Naples 
and Porto Ferrajo, was charged by Murat with a letter for the 
Usurper, and by the latter with another for the Bonapartist Club 
at Paris. The proof of his crime will be found on arresting him : 
for he will have the letter on him, or it will be at his father’s, or 
aboard the ship.” 

“But,” said Renee, “this letter, which, after all, is but an 
anonymous scrawl, is not even addressed to you, but to the proc- 
tor. ’ ’ 

“True; but that gentleman being absent, his secretary, by his 
orders, opened his letters : thinking this one of importance, he 
sent for me, but not finding me, took upon himself to give the 
necessary orders for arresting the accused party.” 

“ Oh, Villefort! ” cried Renee, clasping her hands, and looking 
toward her lover with piteous earnestness, “be merciful on this 
the day of our betrothal.” 

“Never mind that foolish girl, Villefort,” said the marchioness r 
“ she will soon get over these things.” So saying, Lady Saint- 
Meran, extended her dry bony hand to Villefort, who, while im- 
printing a son-in-law’s respectful salute on it, looked at Renee, as 
much as to say, “ I must try and fancy ’tis your dear hand I kiss.” 

“ These are mournful auspices ! ” sighed poor Renee. 

“Upon my word, child ! ” exclaimed the angry marchioness, 
“ your folly exceeds all bounds. I should be glad to know what 
connection there can possibly be between your sickly sentimental- 
ity and the affairs of the state ! ” 

“Oh, mother ! ” murmured Renee. 

“ Nay, madame, I pray you pardon this little traitor; I promise 
you that to make up for her want of loyalty, I will be most inflexi- 
bly severe ; ” then casting an expressive glance at his betrothed, 
which seemed to say, “Fear not, for your dear sake my justice 
shall be tempered with mercy,” and receiving a sweet and approv- 
ing smile in return, Villefort quitted the room. 

No sooner had Vil^fort left, than he assumed the grave air 


22 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


man who holds the balance of life and death in his hands. E&amp; 
cept the recollection of the line of politics his father had adopted 4 
and which might interfere, unless he acted with the greatest pru. 
dence, with his own career, Grand Villefort was as happy as a ma» 
could be. Already rich, he held a high official situation, though 
only twenty-seven. He was about to marry a young and charm- 
ing woman ; and besides her personal attractions, which were very 
great, Mdlle. Saint-Meran’s family possessed considerable polit- 
ical influence, which, they would, of course, exert in his favor. 

The prosecutor’s deputy found the prisoner guarded in the wait- 
ing-room of his residence ; he was calm and smiling. Villefort 
gave him a side glance and taking the charge, sheet from a police- 
officer, entered another room, saying ; “ Bring in the prisoner! ” 

Rapid though his glance was, he was inclined toward the cap- 
tive, but he stifled his compassion and Smoothed his features as he 
sat at his desk. Dantes was brought in, pale but quiet and smil- 
ing ; saluting his judge with easy politeness, looked round for a 
seat, as if he had been at M. Morrel’s. It was then that he en- 
countered for the first time, Villefort’ s look, — that look peculiar to 
justice, which, whilst it seems to read the culprit’s thoughts, be- 
trays nought of its own. 

“ Who and what are you?” demanded Villefort, turning over a 
pile of papers, containing information relative to the prisoner, that 
an agent of police had given to him on his entry. 

“ My name is Edmond Dantes,” replied the young man calmly ; 
“ I am mate of the Pharaoh , belonging to Messrs. Morrel and 
Son.” 

“Your age?” continued Villefort. “Nineteen,” returned 

Dantes. 

“ What were you doing at the moment you were arrested? ” 

“ I was at my wedding feast,” said the young man, his voice 
slightly tremulous, so great was the contrast between that happy 
moment and the painful ceremony he was now undergoing ; so 
great was the contrast between the sombre aspect of M. de Ville- 
fort and the radiant face of Mercedes. 

“ You were at your marriage feast? ” said the deputy, shudder- 
ing in spite of himself. 

“Yes, sir, I am on the point of marrying a girl I have been at- 
tached to for three years.” Villefort, impassive as he was, was 
struck with this coincidence ; and the tremulous voice of Dantes, 
surprised in the midst of his happines, struck a sympathetic chord 
in his own bosom ; — he also was on the point of being married, 
and he was summoned from his own happiness to destroy that of 
another. “ This philosophic reflection,” thought he, “ will make 
a great sensation at Saint-Meran’s;” and he arranged mentally, 
whilst Dantes awaited further questions, the antithesis by which 
orators often create a reputation for eloquence. When this speech 
was arranged, Villefort turned to Dantes. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


23 


#&lt; lt is reported your political opinions are extreme," said Ville- 
fort, who had never heard anything of the kind, but was not sorry 
to make this inquiry, as if it were an accusation. 

" My political opinions! ” replied Dantes. 0 Alas ! sir, I never 
had any opinions. I am hardly nineteen. If I obtain the situa- 
tion I desire, I shall owe it to M. Morrel. Thus all my opinions — 
i will not say public, but private — are confined to these three sen- 
timent; — I love my father, I respect M. Morrel, and I adore Mer- 
cedes. This, sir, is all I can tell you, and you see how uninter- 
esting it is." As Dantes spoke, Villefort gazed at his ingenuous 
and open countenance, and recollected the words of Renee, who, 
without knowing who the culprit was, had besought his indulgence 
for him. 

“ Faith ! " said Villefort, “ he is a noble fellow ! I hope I shall 
gain Renee’s favor easily by obeying the first command she ever 
imposed on me. I shall have at least a pressure of the hand in 
public, and a sweet kiss in private.” Full of this idea, Villefort’s 
face became so joyous, that when he turned to Dantes, the latter, 
who had watched the change on his physiognomy, was smiling 
also. 

“Sir," said Villefort, “have you any enemies, at least that you 
know? " 

“ Enemies?” replied Dantes ; “ my position is not sufficiently 
elevated for that. As for my temper, that is, perhaps, somewhat 
too hasty ; but I have striven to repress it. I have had ten or 
twelve sailors under me ; and if you question them, they will tell 
you that they love and respect me, not as a father, for I am too 
young, but as an elder brother.” 

“ But instead of enemies you may have excited jealousy. You 
are about to become captain at nineteen — an elevated post ; you 
are about to marry a pretty girl, who loves you ; and good fortune 
may have excited envy.” 

“You are right ; you know men better than I do, and what you 
say may possibly be the case, I confess ; I prefer not knowing 
them, because then I should be forced to hate them." 

“ You are wrong ; you should always strive to see clearly around 
you. You seem a worthy young man ; I will depart from the 
strict line of my duty to aid you in discovering the author of 
this accusation. Here is the paper; do you know the writing?” 
As he spoke, Villefort drew the letter from his pocket, and pre- 
sented it to Dantes, who read it. A cloud passed over his brow a* 
he said : 

“ No, I do not know the writing, and yet it is tolerably plain. 
Whoever did it writes well. I am very fortunate,” added he, 
looking gratefully at Villefort, “to be examined by such a man as 
you ; for this envious person is a real enemy.” And by the rapid 
glance that the young man’s eyes shot forth, Villefort saw how 
much energy lay hid beneath this mildness. 


H 


THE COUNT OF MONTE C/US TO. 


44 Now,” said the deputy, 44 answer me frankly, not as a prisoner 
to a judge, but as one man to another who takes an interest in 
him, what truth is there in the accusation contained in this anony- 
mous letter ? ” And Villefort threw disdainfully Oil his bureau the 
letter Dantes had just given back to him. 

44 None at all. I will tell you the real facts.’ * 

And he related the errands entrusted to him by his captain. 

4 *Ah! ” said Villefort, 44 this seems to me the truth. If you 
have been culpable, it was imprudence, and this was legitimized 
by the orders of your captain. Give up this letter you have 
brought from Elba, and pass your word you will appear should 
you be required, and go and rejoin your friends.” 

44 1 am free, then, sir? ” cried Dantes, joyfully. 44 Yes ; but 

first give me this letter.” 

14 You have it already ; for it was taken from me with some 
others which I see in that packet.” 

4 4 Stop a moment,” said the deputy, as Dant&amp;s took his hat and 
gloves. 44 To whom is it addressed ? ” 

44 To M. Noirtier, Rue Coq-Heron, Paris.” Had a thunderbolt 
fallen into the room, Villefort could not have been more stupefied. 
He sank into his seat, and hastily turning over the packet, drew 
forth the fatal letter, at which he glanced with an expression of 
terror. 

44 Do you then know him ? ” 

44 No,” replied Villefort; 44 a faithful servant of the king does 
not know conspirators. 

44 It is a conspiracy, then? ” asked Dantes, who, after believing 
himself free, now began to feel a tenfold alarm. 

44 Have you shown this letter to any one ? ” asked Villefort, be' 
coming still more pale. 

44 To no one, on my honor.” 

Villefort’ s brow darkened more and more, his white lips and 
clenched teeth filled Dantes with apprehension. After reading the 
letter, Villefort passed his chill hand over his brow and muttered : 
44 If he knew this letter and ever learnt that Noirtier is my father, 
I should be ruined forever! ” 

He tossed the paper into the fire where it was consumed. 

44 -You see,” said he, 44 the evidence is destroyed. You and I 
alone knew of it ; and I expect you to deny if questioned.” 

44 1 will deny, sir ; take it easy,” said the captain. 

The law officer rang for a policeman who came and who nodded 
on receiving whispered instructions. 

44 Go with him,” said the vice-prosecutor. 

Dantes bowed and withdrew. The moment the door closed the 
lawyer dropped upon a chair. 

"Alas! alas!” murmured he, 44 if my principal had been at 
Marseilles I should have been ruined. This accursed letter would 
have destroyed all my hopes. Oh ! my father, must your past 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


25 


career always interfere with my successes ? f# Suddenly a light 
passed over his face, a smile played round his mouth, and his lips 
became unclenched. 

“This will do/’ said he, “and from this letter, which might 
have ruined me, 1 will make my fortune/' And after having as- 
sured himself the prisoner was gone, the deputy hastened to his 

bride. 


CHAPTER VI, 

IF CASTLE. 

THE commissary of police, as he traversed the antechamber, 
made a sign to two gendarmes, who placed themselves one on 
Dantes' right and the other on his left. A door that communicated 
with the Palace of Justice was opened, and they traversed a long 
range of gloomy corridors, whose appearance might have made 
even the boldest shudder. The Palace communicated with the 
prison, — a sombre edifice. After numberless windings, Dantes 
saw an iron door. The commissary knocked thrice, every blow 
seeming to Dantes as if struck on his heart. The door opened, 
the two gendarmes gently pushed him forward, and the door closed 
with a loud sound behind him. It was four o’clock when Dante* 
was placed in this chamber. It was, as we have said, the first of 
March, and the prisoner was soon buried in darkness. At last, 
about ten o’clock, and just as Dantes began to despair, steps were 
heard in the corridor, a key turned in the lock, the bolts creaked, 
the massy oaken door flew open, and a flood of light from two 
torches pervaded the apartment. By the torchlight Dantes saw 
the glittering sabres and carbines of four gendarmes. He had ad- 
vanced at first, but stopped at the sight of this fresh accession of 
force. 

“ Are you come to fetch me? ” asked he.-- — “ Yes,” replied a 
gendarme. 

“ By the orders of the deploy ? ” “ I believe so.” The con- 

viction that they came from Villefort relieved all Dantes’ appre- 
hensions ; he advanced calmly, and placed himself in the centre 
of the escort. A carriage waited at the door, the coachman was 
on the box, and an exempt seated behind him. 

Dantes was about to speak ; but feeling himself uraged forward, 
and having neither the power nor the intention to resist, he 
mounted the steps, and was in an instant seated inside between 
two gendarmes ; the two others took their places opposite, and the 
carriage rolled heavily over the stones. 

The prisoner glanced at the windows — they were grated ; he had 
Changed his prison for another that was conveying him he knew 


26 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


not whither. Through the grating, however, Dant&amp;s saw they 
were passing to the port. 

The carriage stopped, the exempt descended, approached the 
guard-house, a dozen soldiers came out and formed themselves in 
order ; Dantes saw the reflection of their muskets by the light of 
the lamps on the quay. 

They all advanced toward a boat, which a custom-house officer 
held by a chain, near the quay. 

The soldiers looked at Dantes with an air of stupid curiosity. 
In an instant he was placed in the stern-sheets, between the gen- 
darmes, whilst the exempt stationed himself at the bow ; a shove 
sent the boat adrift, and four sturdy oarsmen impelled it rapidly 
toward the Pilon. At a shout from the boat, the chain that closes 
the mouth of the port was lowered, and in a second they were out- 
side the harbor. 

The most vague and wild thoughts passed through his mind. 
The boat they were in could not make a long voyage ; there was 
no vessel at anchor outside the harbor ; he thought, perhaps, they 
were going to leave him on some distant point. He was not 
bound, nor had they made any attempt to handcuff him ; this 
seemed a good augury. Besides, had not the deputy, who had 
been so kind to him, told him that provided he did not pronounce 
the dreaded name of Noirtier, he had nothing to apprehend? 
Had not Villefort in his presence destroyed the fatal letter, the 
only proof against him ? He waited silently, striving to pierce 
through the darkness. 

They had left the lighthouse on the right, and were now opposite 
Point Catalans. It seemed to the prisoner that he could distinguish 
a female form on the beach, for it was there Mercedes dwelt. 
How was it that a presentiment did not warn Mercedes her lover 
was near her ? 

One light alone was visible ; and Dantes recognized it as com- 
ing from the chamber of Mercedes. A loud cry could be hoard 
by her. He did not utter it. What would his guards think if 
they heard him shout like a madman ? 

He remained silent, his eyes fixed upon the light ; the boat went 
on, but the prisoner only thought of Mercedes. A rising ground 
hid the light. Dantes turned and perceived they had got out to 
sea. Whilst he had been absorbed in thought, they had hoisted 
the sail. 

In spite of his repugnance to address the guards, Dantbs turned 
to the nearest gendarme, and taking his hand : 

“ Comrade,” said he, “I adjure you, as a Christian and a sol- 
dier, to tell me where we are going. I am Captain Dantes, a loyal 
Frenchman, though accused of treason; tell me where you are 
conducting me, and I promise you on my honor I will submit to 
Uiy fate.” 

The gendarme looked irresolutely at his companion, who re* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 2J 

{urned for answer a sigh that said, “ I see no great harm in telling 
him now/' and the gendarme replied : 

44 But my orders.” 44 Your orders do not forbid your telling 

me what I must know in ten minutes, in half an hour, or an hour. 
You see I cannot escape, even if I intended.” 

44 Look round you then.” Dantes rose and looked forward, 
when he saw rise within a hundred yards of him the black and 
frowning rock on which stands Castle If. This gloomy fortress, 
which has for more than three hundred years furnished food for so 
many wild legends, seemed to Dantes like a scaffold to a malefac- 
tor. 

4 * The Castle ? " cried he. 44 You think, that I am to be imprisoned 
there ? ” 

44 It is probable ; ali the formalities have been gone through.” 

44 In spite of M. de Villefort’s promises? ” 44 I do not know 

what M. de Villefort promised you,” said the gendarme, 44 but I 
know we are taking you to the Castle.” 

At this moment a violent shock made the bark tremble. One of 
the sailors leaped on shore, a cord creaked as it ran through a 
pulley, and Dantes guessed they were at the end of the voyage. 

His guardians, talcing hold of his arms, forced him to rise, and 
dragged him toward the steps that lead to the gate of the fortress, 
whilst the exempt followed, armed with a bayonet and rifle. 

44 Where is the prisoner? ” said a voice. 

44 Let him follow me ; I am going to conduct him to his cell.” 

44 Go ! ” said the gendarmes, pushing Dantes. 

The prisoner followed his conductor, who led him into a room 
almost under ground, whose bare and reeking walls seemed as 
though impregnated with tears ; a lamp placed on a stool illumined 
the apartment faintly, and showed Dantes the features of his con- 
ductor, an under-jailer, ill-clothed, and of sullen appearance. 

• f Here is your chamber for to-night,” said he. 44 It is late, and 
the governor is asleep. To-morrow, perhaps, he may change you. 
In the mean time there is bread, water, and fresh straw ; and that 
is all a prisoner can wish for. Good-night.*’ And before Dantes 
could open his mouth — before he had noticed where the jailer 
placed his bread or the water — before he had glanced toward the 
corner where the straw was, the jailer disappeared, taking with 
him the lamp. 

With the first dawn the jailer returned, with orders to leave 
Dantes where he was. He found the prisoner in the same position, 
as if fixed there, his eyes swollen with weeping. He passed the 
night standing, and without sleep. The jailer advanced ; Dantes 
appeared not to perceive him. He touched him on the shoulder, 
Edmond started. 

4 Have you not slept?” said the jailer .— 44 I do not know/* 
replied Dantes. 

44 Do you wish for anything ? ” 


28 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRJSTQ 


44 I wish to see the governor.' * 

The jailer shrugged his shoulders and left. 

Dantes followed him with his eyes, and stretched forth his hands 
toward the open door ; but the door closed. All his emotion then 
burst forth : he cast himself on the ground, weeping bitterly, and 
asking himself what crime he had committed that he was thus 
punished. 

The day passed thus ; he scarcely tasted food, but walked round 
and round the cell like a wild beast in its cage. 

The next morning the turnkey made his appearance. 

“ Well,” said he, “ are you more reasonable to-day ? '* Dantes 
made no reply. 

44 Come, take courage ; do you want anything in my power to do 
for you ? " 

44 l wish to see the governor.” 

44 What you ask is impossible ; but if you are very well behaved 
you will be allowed to walk about, and some day you will meet 
tne governor ; and if he chooses to reply, that is his affair.” 

44 But,” asked Dantes, “ how long shall I have to wait? " 

44 Ah ! a month — -six months — a year.” 

“ It is too long a time. I wish to see him at once,” 

44 Ah,” said the jailer, 44 do not always brood over what is im- 
possible, or you will be mad in a fortnight. Yes : we have an in- 
stance here : it was by always offering a million of francs to the 
governor for his liberty that a priest became mad, who was in this 
chamber before you ; he was put in a dungeon.” 

44 Listen ! ” said Dantes. 44 I am not a priest or mad ; perhaps 
I shall b£, but at present, unfortunately, I am not. I do not offer 
you a million, because I have it not ; but I will give you a hundred 
crowns if, the first time you go to Marseilles, you will seek out a girl 
named Mercedes, at the Catalans, and give her two lines from 
me.” 

“ If I took them, and were detected, I should lose my place, 
which is worth two thousand francs a year ; so that I should be a 
great fool to run such a risk for three hundred.” 

41 Well,” said Dantes, 44 mark this ; if you refuse at least to tell 
Mercedes I am here, I will some day hide myself behind the door, 
and when you enter I will dash out your brains with this stool.” 
'‘Threats! ” cried the jailer, retreating and putting himself on 
the defensive ; 44 you are certainly going mad. The abbe began 
like you, and in three days you will want a strait-waistcoat ; but, 
fortunately, there are dungeons here.” 

The jailer went out, and returned in an instant with a corporal 
and four soldiers. 

44 By the governor’s orders,” said he, 44 conduct the prisoner to 
the story beneath.” • 

44 To the dungeon ? ” said the corporal. 


THE CQUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 2$ 

“Yes ; we must put madmen with madmen.’* The soldiers 
seized Dantes, who followed passively. 

He descended fifteen steps, and the door of a dungeon was 
opened, and he was thrust in. The door closed, and Dantes ad- 
variced with outstretched hands until he touched the wall ; he then 
sat down in the corner until his eyes became accustomed to the 
darkness. The jailer was right ; Dantes wanted but little of being 
utterly mad. 

When the Emperor returned, Noirtier saved his son, but his su- 
perior lost his official head. When the Restoration again followed 
Villefort had but to remind the King that he had traveled posthaste 
to tell him of the plot he had discovered through Dantes’ letter 
and obtained post ; he selected to be proctor at another place. 

He was still at Marseilles, its leading legal functionary, when 
one morning his door opened, and M. Morrel was announced. 

He came for advice about the imprisoment of Dantes, and the 
magistrate suggested a petition. As this was strongly in favor of 
Vue mate as a Bonapartist, he did not send it off to headquarters 
but retained it in case the tables should be turned again. 

Dantes remained a prisoner, and heard not the noise of the fall 

Louis XVlII.’s throne. 

Twice during the Hundred Days had Morrel renewed his de- 
mand, and twice had Villefort soothed him with promises. At 
last there was Waterloo, and Morrel came no more : he had done 
all that was in his power, and any fresh attempt would only com- 
promise himself uselessly. 

Louis XVIII. remounted the throne, Villefort demanded andob 
tained office at Toulouse, and a fortnight afterwards married 
Renee. 

Danglars comprehended the full extent of the wretched fate 
that overwhelmed Dantes and like all men of small abilities, he 
termed this a decree of Providence. But when Napoleon returned 
to Paris, Danglars’ heart failed him, and he feared at every in- 
stant to behold Dantes eager for vengeance : he therefore informed 
M. Morrel of his wish to quit the sea, and obtained a recommen- 
dation from him to a Spanish merchant, into whose service he en- 
tered at the end of March, that is, ten or twelve days after Napo- 
leon’s return. He then left for Madrid, and was no more heard of. 

Fernand understood nothing except that Dantes was absent. 
What had become of him he cared not to inquire. Only, during 
the respite the absence of his rival afforded him, he reflected, 
partly on the means of deceiving Mercedes as to the cause of his 
absence, partly on plans of emigration and abduction, as from time 
to time he sat sad and motionless on the summit of Cape Pharo, at 
the spot from whence Marseilles and the village des Catalans are 
visible, watching for the apparition of a young and handsome 
man, who was for him also the messenger of vengeance. Fernand’s 
mind was made up : he would shoot Dantes, and then kill him- 


3 ° 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


self. But Fernand was mistaken ; a man of his disposition never 
kills himself, for he constantly hopes. 

During this time the empire made a last appeal, and every man 
in France capable of bearing arms rushed to obey the summons 
of their emperor. Fernand departed with the rest, bearing with 
him the terrible thought that perhaps his rival was behind him, and 
would marry Mercedes. Had Fernand really meant to kill himself, 
he would have done so when he parted from Mercedes. His 
devotion, and the compassion he showed for her misfortunes, pro- 
duced the effect they always produce on noble minds — Mercedes 
had always had a sincere regard for Fernand, and this was now 
strengthened by gratitude. 

“My brother,” said she, as she placed his knapsack on his 
shoulders, “ be careful of yourself, for if you are killed, I shall be 
alone in the world.” These words infused a ray of hope into 
Fernand’s heart. Should Dantes not return, Mercedes might one 
day be his. Mercedes was left alone to gaze on this vast plain 
that had never seemed so barren, and the sea that had never 
seemed so vast. 

Caderousse was, like Fernand, enrolled in the army, but, being 
married and eight years older, he was merely sent to the frontier. 
Old Dantes who was only sustained by hope, lost all hope at Na- 
poleon’s downfall. Five months after he had been separated from 
his son, and almost at the very hour at which he was arrested, he 
breathed his last in Mercedes* arms. M. Morrel paid the expenses 
of his funeral and a few small debts the poor old man had con- 
tracted. 

There was more than benevolence in this action ; there was 
courage ; for to assist, even on his death-bed, the father of so dan- 
gerous a Bonapartist as Dantes, was stigmatized as a crime. 


CHAPTER VII. 

ANOTHER PRISONER. 

A year after Louis XVIII’s restoration, a visit was made by the 
inspector general of prisons. Dantes heard from the recesses of 
his cell the noises made by the preparations for receiving him. 
He guessed something uncommon was passing among the living ; 
but he had so long ceased to have any intercourse with the world, 
that he looked upon himself as dead. 

The inspector visited the cells and dungeons, one after another. 

At last, they descended stairs so foul, so humid, so dark, that the 
very sight effected the eye, the smell, and respiration. 

“Oh ! ” cried the inspector, " who can live here ? ” 

“A most dangerous conspirator, a man we are ordered to keep 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


3 * 


the most strict watch over, as he is daring and resolute. He at- 
tempted to kill the turnkey ; the very one who is lighting us. Is 
it not true, Antoine ? ” asked the govenor. 

“ True enough ; he wanted to kill me ! ” replied the turnkey. 

“ He must be mad,” said the inspector. 

“He is worse than that, — he is a devil!” returned the turn- 
key. 

“ Shall I complain of him ? ” demanded the inspector. 

«« Oh, no ; it is useless. Besides he is almost mad now, and in 
another year he will be quite so.” 

“So much the better for him, — he will suffer less,” said the 
inspector. He was, as this remark shows, a man full of philan- 
thropy, and in every way’fit for his office. 

“You are right, sir* replied the governor; “ and this remark 
proves that you have deeply considered the subject. Now we 
have in a dungeon about twenty feet distant, and to which you 
descend by another stair an abbe, ancient leader of a party in 
in Italy, who has been here since 1811, and in 1813 he went mad, 
and the change is astonishing. He used to weep, he now laughs ; 
he grew thin, he now grows fat. You had better see him, for his 
madness is amusing.” 

“I will see them both,” returned the inspector; “I must con- 
scientiously perform my duty.” This was the inspector’s first 
visit : he wished to display his authority. 

At the sound of the key turning in the lock, and the creaking 
of the hinges, Dantes, who was crouched in a corner of the dun- 
geon raised his head. At the sight of a stranger, lighted by two 
turnkeys, accompanied by two soldiers, and to whom the govenor 
spoke bareheaded, Dantes, who guessed the truth, and that the 
moment to address himself to the superior authorities was come, 
sprang forward with clasped hands. 

The soldiers presented their bayonets, for they thought he was 
about to attack the inspector, and the latter recoiled two or three 
steps. Dantes saw he was represented as a dangerous prisoner. 
Then infusing all the humility he possessed into his eyes and 
voice, he addressed the inspector, and sought to inspire him with 
pity. 

The inspector listened attentively ; then, turning to the governor, 
observed, “ He will become religious — he is already more gentle ; 
he is afraid, and retreated before the bayonets — madmen are not 
afraid of anything ; I made some curious observation on this 
at Charenton madhouse.” Then, turning to the prisoner, he 
asked, “What do you demand ? ” 

“ What crime I have committed — to be tried ; and if I am 
guilty, may be shot ; if innocent, I may be set at liberty.” 

“ Are you well fed ? ” said the inspector. 

“ I believe so — I know not, but that matters little ; what matters 
really, not only to me, but to everyone, is, that an innocent maa 


32 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


should languish in prison, the victim of an infamous denuncia- 
tion.” 

“We shall see,” said the inspector; then turning to the gov- 
ernor. ‘‘ On my word, the poor devil touches me. You must 
show me the proofs against him.” 

“ Certainly ; but you will find terrible notes against him.” 

" Monsieur,” continued Dantes, " I know it is not in your 
power to release me ; but you can plead for me — you can have 
me tried — and that is all I ask. Tell me at least to hope.” 

“ I cannot tell you that,” replied the inspector; “ I can only 
promise to examine into your case. Who arrested you ? ” 

" M. Villefort. See him, and hear what he says.” 

" M. Villefort is no longer at Marseilles ; he is now at Tou- 
louse.” 

“ I am no longer surprised at my detention ” murmured Dantes, 
" since my only protector is removed,” 

“ Had M. de Villefort any cause of personal dislike to you? M 
" None ; on the contrary, he was very kind to me.” 

“ I can, then, rely on the notes he has left concerning you?" 
— “ Entirely.” 

" That is well ; wait patiently, then.” Dantes fell on his knees, 
and prayed earnestly. The door closed ; but this time a fresh 
inmate was left with Dantes — Hope. 

“ Will you see the register at once,” asked the governor, "or 
proceed to the other cell ? ’ ’ 

" What is his craze ? ” 

“ He fancies he possesses an immense treasure. The .first year 
he offered government a million of francs for his release ; the 
second, two ; the third, three ; and so on progressively. He is 
now in his fifth year of captivity ; he will ask to speak to you in 
priv'ate, and offer you five millions.” 

" How curious ! — what is his name? ” "Abbe Faria.” 

" No. 27,” said the inspector. 

" It is here ; unlock the door, Antoine.” The turnkey obeyed, 
and the inspector gazed curiously into the cell of the Mad Priest. 

Jn the centre of the cell, in a circle traced with a fragment of 
plaster detached from the wall, sat a man whose tattered garments 
scarcely covered him. He was drawing in this circle geometrical 
lines, and seemed absorbed in his problem. 

He did not move at the sound of the door, and continued his 
problem until the flash of the torches lighted up with an unwonted 
glare the sombre walls of his cell ; then, raising his head, he per- 
ceived with astonishment the number of persons in his cell. He 
hastily seized the coverlid of his bed, and wrapped it round him. 

" What do you demand ? ” said the inspector, 

" I ! ” replied the abbe, with an air of surprise — " I demand noth- 
ing.” 

"You do not understand,” continued the inspector; "I am 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 33 

sent here by government to visit, and hear the requests of the 
prisoners.” 

“ Oh, that is different,’* cried the abbe ; 11 and we shall under, 
stand each other, I hope.” 

“There now,” whispered the governor, “it is just as I told 
you.” 

“Sir,” continued the prisoner, “ I am the Abbe Faria, born at 
Rome. I was for twenty years Cardinal Spada’s secretary ; I was 
arrested, why I know not, in 18 11 ; since then I have demanded 
my liberty from the Italian and French government.” 

“ Why from the French government? ” 

“ Because I was arrested at Piombino ; and I presume that, 
like Milan and Florence, Piombino has become the capital of some 
French department.” 

“ Ah ! ” said the inspector, “ you have not the latest intelligence 
from Italy.” 

“ They date from the day on which I was arrested,” returned 
Faria; “and as the emperor had created the kingdom of Rome 
for his infant son, I presume that he has realized the dream of 
Machiavel and Caesar Borgia, which was to make Italy one vast 
kingdom.” 

“Sir,” returned the inspector, “Providence has changed this 
gigantic plan you advocate so warmly.” 

“It is the only means of rendering Italy happy and indepen- 
dent.” 

“ Very possibly ; only I am not come to discuss politics, but to 
inquire if you have anything to ask or to complain of.” 

“ The food is the same as in other prisons, — that is, very bad ; 
the lodging is very unwholesome, but, on the whole, passable for 
a dungeon ; but it is not that which I speak of, but a secret I have 
to reveal of the greatest importance.” 

“ We are coming to the point,” whispered the governor. 

“ It is for that reason I am delighted to see you,” continued the 
priest, “although you have disturbed me in a most important cal- 
culation, which, if it succeeded, would possibly change Newton’s 
system. Could you allow me a few words in private ? I would 
speak to you of a large sum, amounting to five millions.” 

“The very sum you named,” whispered, in his turn, the in- 
spector. 

“However,” continued Faria, perceiving the inspector was 
about to depart, “ it is not absolutely necessary we should be alone ; 
the governor can be present.” 

“ Unfortunately,” said the governor, “ I know beforehand what 
you are about to say ; it concerns your treasures, does it not? ” 
Faria fixed his eyes on him with an expression that would have 
convinced any one else of his sanity. 

04 The government does not want your treasures,” replied tn&amp; 

3 


34 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


inspector ; keep them until you are liberated.** The abba’s 
eyes glistened ; he seized the inspector’s hand. 

“ But what if I am not liberated,” cried he, “ and am detained 
here until my death ? Had not government better profit by it ? I 
will offer six millions, and I will content myself with the rest.** 

“ On my word,” said the inspector, in a low tone, •• had I not 
been told beforehand this man was mad, I should believe what he 
says.’* 

41 1 am not mad ’ ” replied Faria, with that acuteness of hear- 
ing peculiar to prisoners. “ The treasure I speak of really exists ; 
and I offer to sign a treaty with you, in which I promise to lead 
you to the spot you shall dig ; and if I deceive you, bring me here 
again, — I ask no more.” 

The governor laughed. " Is the spot far from here ? ’* •• A 

hundred leagues.” 

It is not a bad idea,” said the governor. 

“ If every prisoner took it into his head to travel a hundred 
leagues, and their guardians consented to accompany them, they 
would have a capital chance of escaping.” 

** The scheme .s well known,” said the governor; “ and the 
reverend has not even the merit of its invention. I inquired if 
you are well fed? ” 

“ Monsieur, you run no risk, for, I will stay here ; so there is no 
chance of my escaping.” 

“ You do not reply to my question,** replied the inspector, im- 
patiently. 

“ Nor you to mine,’* cried the abbe. “ You will not accept my 
gold ; I will keep it for myself. You refuse me my liberty ; God 
will give it me.” And, casting away his coverlid, the priest re- 
sumed his place, and continued his calculations. 

“ What is he doing there ? ” said the inspector. 

“ Counting up his treasures,” replied the governor. 

Faria replied to this sarcasm by a glance of profound con- 
tempt. 

Thus finished the adventure of the Abbe Faria. He remained 
in his cell, and this visit only increased the belief of his insanity. 

The inspector kept his word with Dantes : he examined the 
register, and found the following note concerning him : — 

f Violent Bonapartist ; took an active part in 
. XTrT ,„ 0 | the Return from Elba. 

* j The greatest watchfulness and care to be ex- 
l ercised. 

This note was in a different hand from the rest, which proved it 
had been added since his confinement. The inspector could not 
contend against this accusation ; he simply wrote, — “ Nothing to 
be done.** 

This visit had infused new vigor into Dantes ; he had, till then, 
forgotten the date ; but now. ’’* : th a fragment of plaster, he wrote 


^HE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


35 


thvi date, 30th July, 1816; and made a mark every day, in order 
not to lose his reckoning again. Days and weeks passed away, 
then months, — Dantes still waited ; he at first expected to be freed 
in a fortnight. This fortnight expired ; he reflected the inspector 
would do nothing until his return to Paris ; and that he would not 
reach there until his circuit was finished ; he therefore fixed three 
months : three months passed away, then six more. During these 
ten months no favorable change had taken place ; and Dantes be- 
gan to fancy the inspector’s visit was but a dream, an illusion of 
the brain. 

At the expiration of a year the governor was changed; he had 
obtained the government of Ham. He took with him several of 
his subordinates, and amonst them Dantes’ jailer. A fresh gov-, 
ernor arrived : it would have been too tedious to acquire the 
names of the prisoners, he learned their numbers instead. This 
horrible place consisted of fifty chambers ; their inhabitants were 
designated by the number of their chamber ; and the unhappy 
young man was no longer called Edmond Dantes, — he was now 
number 34. 

He commenced with pride, a natural consequence of hope and 
a consciousness of innocence ; then he began to doubt his own in- 
nocence, which justified in some measure the governor’s belief in 
his mental alienation. Having exhausted all human resources, he 
turned to God. 

Spite of his earnest prayers, Dant&amp;s remained a prisoner. 

Then a gloomy feeling took possession of him. 

Rage succeeded to this. Dantes uttered blasphemies that made 
his jailer recoil with horror, dashed himself furiously against the 
walls of his prison, attacked everything, and chiefly himself, and 
the least thing — a grain of sand, a straw, or a breath of air that 
annoyed him. Then the letter he had seen that Villefort had 
showed to him recurred to his mind, and every line seemed visible 
in fiery letters on the wall. He said that it was the vengeance of 
man, and not of Heaven, that had thus plunged him into the 
deepest misery. He devoted these unknown persecutors to the ' 
most horrible tortures he could imagine, and found them all in- 
sufficient, because after torture came death, and after death, if not 
repose, at least that insensibility that resembles it. 

By dint of constantly dwelling on the idea that repose was 
death, and, in order to punish, other tortures than death must be 
invented, he began to reflect on suicide. 

He chose starvation and persisted in this course till he had 
barely strength enough to throw his food out of window, to resist 
temptation. He was lying on the borderland of that shrouded 
country known as Death when, at nine o’clock, he heard a noise 
in the wall. It lasted nearly three hours ; he then heard a noise 
of something falling, and all was silent. 

hov*rs »fterwar 4 ., h began nearer and mor« distinct; 


3 ^ 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


mond became already interested in that labor, when the jailer em 
tered. 

For a week that he had resolved to die, and for four days that he 
put this resolution into execution, Edmond had not spoken to this 
man, had not answered him when he inquired what was the mat- 
ter with him, and turned his face to the wall when he looked too 
curiously at him ; but now the jailer might hear this noise and put 
an end to it, thus destroying a ray of something like hope that 
soothed his last moments. 

The jailer brought him his breakfast. Dantes raised himself up, 
and began to speak on everything : on the bad quality of his food, 
on the coldness of his dungeon, grumbling and complaining, in 
order to have an excuse for speaking louder, and wearying the 
patience of his jailer, who had solicited broth and white bread for 
his prisoner, and who had brought it. 

Fortunately he fancied Dantes was delirious ; and placing his 
food on the rickety table, he withdrew. Edmond listened, and 
the sound become more and more distinct. 

He turned his eyes towards the soup his jailer had brought him, 
rose, staggered towards it, raised the vessel to his lips, and drank 
off the contents with a feeling of indescribable pleasure. He had 
often heard that shipwrecked persons had died through having 
eagerly devoured too much food ; Edmond replaced on the table 
the bread he was about to devour, and returned to his couch — he 
did not wish to die. He soon felt that his ideas became again col- 
lected — he could think, and strengthen his thoughts by reasoning. 
Then he said to himself, i( I must put this to the test, but without 
compromising anybody. If it is a workman, I need but knock 
against the wall, and he will cease to work, in order to find out 
who is knocking, and why he does so ; but as his occupation is 
sanctioned by the governor, he will soon resume it. If, on the con- 
tary, it is a prisoner, the noise I make will alarm him, he will 
:ease, and not recommence until he thinks every one is asleep.’ ’ 

Dantes rose again, but this time his legs did not tremble, and 
iis eyes were free from mists ; he advanced to a corner of his 
dungeon, detached a stone, and with it knocked against the v/all 
where the sound came. He struck thrice. At the first blow the 
sound ceased, as if by magic. 

Edmond listened intently ; an hour passed, two hours passed, 
and no sound was heard from the wall — all was silent there. 

Full of hope, Dantes swallowed a few mouthfuls of bread and 
water, and, thanks to the excellence of his constitution, found 
himself well-nigh recovered. 

The day passed away in utter silence — night came without the 
noise having recommenced. 

“ It is a prisoner,” said Edmond joyfully. The night passed in 
perfect silence. He did not close his eyes. 

In the morning the jailer brought him fresh provisions — he had 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


5 ? 


already devoured those of the previous day ; he ate these, listen- 
ing anxiously for the sound, walking round and round his cell, 
Shaking the iron bars of the loophole, restoring by exercise vigor 
and agility to his limbs, and preparing himself thus for his future 
destiny. At intervals he listened if the noise had not begun again, 
and grew impatient at the prudence of the prisoner, who did not 
guess he had been disturbed by a captive as anxious for liberty as 
himself. 

Three days passed — seventy-two long tedious hours ! 

At length one evening, as the jailer was visiting him for the last 
time that night, Dantes fancied he heard an almost imperceptibte 
movement among the stones. Edmond recoiled from the wall, 
walked up and down his cell to collect his thoughts, and replaced 
his ear against the wall. 

There could be no doubt something was passing on the other 
side ; the prisoner had discovered the danger, and had substituted 
the lever for the chisel. 

Encouraged by this discovery, Dantes determined to assist the 
indefatigable laborer. He began by moving his bed, and sought 
with his eyes anything with which he could pierce the wall, pene- 
trate the cement, and displace a stone. 

He saw nothing, he had no knife or sharp instrument, the grat- 
ing of his window alone was of iron, and he had too often assured 
himself of its solidity. All his furniture consisted of a bed, a chair, 
a table, a pail, and a jug. The bed had iron clamps, but they 
were screwed to the wooa, and it would have required a screw- 
driver to take them off. The table and chair had nothing, the pail 
had had a handle removed. 

Dantes had but one resource, which was to break the jug, and 
with one of the sharp fragments attack the wall. He let the jug 
fall on the floor, and it broke in pieces. 

Dantes concealed two or three of the sharpest fragments in his 
bed, leaving the rest on the floor. The breaking of his jug was too 
natural an accident to excite suspicion. Edmond had all the night 
to work in, but in the darkness he could not do much, and he soon 
felt his instrument was blunted against something hard ; he pushed 
back his bed, and awaited the day. 

All night he heard the subterranean workman, who continued to 
mine his way. The day came, the warden entered. Dantes told 
him the jug had fallen from his hands in drinking, and the jailer 
went grumblingly to fetch another, without giving himself the 
trouble to remove the fragments of the broken one. He returned 
speedily, recommended the prisoner to be more careful, and de- 
parted. 

Edmond heard joyfully the key grate in the lock, he listened un- 
til the sound of steps died away, and then, hastily displacing his 
bed, saw by the faint light that penetrated into his cell, that he had 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTSTO. 


33 

labored uselessly the previous evening in attacking the stone ift* 
stead of removing the plaster that surrounded it. 

The damp had rendered it friable, and Dantes saw joyfully the 
plaster detach itself ; in small morsels, it is true ; but at the end of 
half an hour he had scraped off a handful : a mathematician might 
have calculated that in two years, supposing that the rock was not 
encountered, a passage, twenty feet long and two feet broad, might 
be formed. 

The prisoner reproached himself with not having thns employed 
the hours he had passed in prayers and despair. In six years (the 
space he had been confined) what might he not have accomplished ? 

In three days he had succeeded, with the utmost precaution, in 
removing the cement, and exposing the stone ; the wall was formed 
of rough stones, to give solidity to which were embedded, at in- 
tervals, blocks of hewn stone. It was one of these he had un- 
covered, and which he must remove from its sockets. 

Dantes strove to do so with his nails, but they were too weak. 
The fragments of the jug broke, and after an hour of useless toil, 
he paused. 

Was he to be thus stopped at the beginning, and was he to wait 
inactive until his fellow-workman had completed his toils? Sud- 
denly an idea occurred to him, — he smiled, and the perspiration 
dried on his forehead. 

The turnkey always brought Dantes’ soup in an iron saucepan : 
this saucepan contained the soup of a second prisoner ; for Dantes 
had remarked that it was either quite full, or half empty, accord- 
ing as the turnkey gave it to himself or his companion first. 

The handle of this saucepan was of iron ; Dantes would have 
given ten years of his life in exchange for it. 

The jailer poured the contents of this saucepan into Danles* 
plate, who after eating his soup with a wooden spoon, washed the 
plate, which thus served for every day. In the evening Dantes 
placed his plate on the ground near the door ; the jailer as he 
entered, stepped on it and broke it. 

This time he could not blame Dantes. He was wrong to leave 
it there, but the man was wrong not to have looked before him. 

The warden, therefore, contented himself with grumbling. Then 
he looked about him for something to pour the soup into ; Dantes' 
whole furniture consisted of one plate — there was no alternative. 

" Leave the saucepan,” said Dantes ; “ you can take it away 
when you bring me my breakfast.” This advice was to the man’s 
taste, as it spared him the necessity of ascending, descending, and 
ascending again. He left the saucepan. 

Dantes was beside himself with joy. He rapidly devoured his 
food, and after waiting an hour, lest the jailer should change his 
mind and return, he removed his bed, took the handle of the sauce- 
pan, inserted the point between the hewn stone and rough stones 

the wall, and employed it a lever. A slight oscillation showed 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


39 


Dantes all went well. At the end of an hour the stone was ex- 
tricated from the wall, leaving a cavity of a foot and a half in 
diameter. 

Dantes carefully collected the plaster, carried it into the corners 
of his cell., and covered it with earth. Then, wishing to make the 
best use oi this night, in which chance, or rather his own stratagem, 
had placed so precious an instrument in his hands, he continued to 
work without ceasing. At the dawn of day he replaced the stone, 
pushed his bed against the wall, and lay down. The breakfast 
consisted of a piece of bread: the jailer entered and placed the 
bread on the table. 

“ Well, you do not bring me another plate,* * said Dantes. 

' •' No,” replied the turnkey, “you destroy everything. First you 

break your jug, then you make me break your plate ; if all the 
prisoners followed your example, the government would be ruined. 
I shall leave you the saucepan, and pour your soup into that. So 
far the future I hope you will not be so destructive to your furni- 
ture.” 

Dantes raised his eyes to heaven, clasped his hands beneath the 
coverlid, and prayed. He felt more gratitude for the possession of 
this piece of iron than he had ever felt for anything. He had, 
however, remarked that the prisoner on the other side had ceased 
to labor ; no matter, this was a greater reason for proceeding — if 
his neighbor would not come to him, he would go to him. All day 
he toiled on untiringly, and by the evening he had succeeded in 
extracting ten handfuls of plaster and fragments of stone. When 
the hour for his jailer’s visit arrived, Dantes straightened the 
handle of the saucepan as well as he could, and placed it in its ac- 
customed place. The man poured his ration of soup into it, to- 
gether with the fish, for thrice a week the prisoners were made to 
abstain from meat : this would have been a method of reckoning 
time, had not Dantes long ceased to' do so. Having poured out 
the soup, the warden retired. Dantes wished to ascertain whether 
his neighbor had really ceased to work. He listened — all was 
silent, as it had been for the last three days. Dantes sighed : it 
was evident that his neighbor distrusted him. However, he toiled 
on all the night without being discouraged ; but after two or three 
hours he encountered an obstacle. The iron made no impression, 
but met with a smooth surface , Dantes touched it, and found it 
was a beam. This beam crossed, or rather blocked up, the hole 
‘Dantes had made ; it was necessary, therefore, to dig above or 
under it. The unhappy youug man had not thought of this. “ Oh, 
my God!” murmured he, “I have so earnestly prayed to you, 
that I hoped my prayers had been heard. After having deprived 
tne of my liberty, after having deprived me of death, after having 
recalled me to existence, my God ! have pity on me, and do not 
(et me die in despair,” 

“ Who talks of God ana despair at the same time j said a voice 


40 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


that seemed to come from beneath the earth, and, deadened by the 
distance, sounded hollow and sepulchral in the young man’s ears. 
Edmond’s hair stood on end, and he rose on his knees. 

“Ah!” said he, “I hear a human voice.” Edmond had not 
heard any one speak save his jailer for four or five years ; and a 
jailer is a man to a prisoner — he is a living door added to his door 
of oak, a barrier of flesh and blood added to his barriers of iron. 


CHAPTER VIII. 

THE CRAZY PRIEST. 

“In the name of heaven,” cried Dantes, “ speak again, though 
the sound of your voice terrifies me.” 

“ Who are you? ” said the voice. 

“An unhappy prisoner,” replied Dantes, who made no hesita- 
tion in answering. “Edmond Dantes, a French seaman.” 

“How long have you been here?” “Since the 28th of 

February, 1815.” 

“ Your crime ? ” “ I am innocent.” 

“ But of what are you accused ? ” 

“ Of having conspired to aid the emperor’s return.” 

“ How, for the emperor’s return? — is the emperor no longer on 
the throne ? ’ ’ 

“ He abdicated at Fontainebleau in 1814, and was sent to ths 
island of Elba. But how long have you been here that you arc 
ignorant of all thrs ? ’ ’ 

“ Since 1811.” 

Dantes shuddered : this man had been four years longer than 
himself in prison. 

" Do not dig any more,” said the voice ; “ only tell me how high 

up is your excavation?” “On a level with the floor, behind 

my bed.” 

“What does your chamber open on?” “A corridor and 

that on a yard.” 

“ Alas! ” murmured the voice. 

“ Oh, what is the matter? ” cried Dantes. 

“I am deceived, and the imperfection of my plans has ruined 
all. An error of a line in the plan has been equivalent to fifteen 
feet in reality, and I took the wall you are mining for the wall of 
the fortress.” 

“But then you were close to the sea?” “That is what I 

hoped. I should have thrown myself into the sea, gained one of 
the islands near here — Daume or Tiboulen — and then I was safe.” 

“Could you have swum so far?” “Heaven would have 

p^n me strength ; but now all is lost.” 


THE COUNT OF MO^TE CRTS TO. 41 

All ? ^ ‘‘Yes; stop up your excavation carefully; do not 

work any more, and wait until you hear from me.” 

“Tell me, at least, who you are ? ” “ I am — I am No. 27. ,r 

“You mistrust me, then,” said Dantes. Edmond fancied he 
heard a bitter laugh proceed from the unknown. 

“ Oh, I am a Christian, 11 cried Dantes, guessing instinctively 
that this man meant to abandon him. “ I swear to you by Him 
who died for us that nought shall induce me to breathe one syl- 
lable to my jailer ; but I conjure you do not abandon me. If you 
do, I swear to you that I will dash my brains out against the wall, 
and you will have my death to reproach yourself with.” 

“ How old are you ? Your voice is of a young man’s.” 

“ I do not know my age, for I have not counted the years I have 
been here. All I do know is, that I was just nineteen when I was 
arrested, the 28th of February, 1815.” 

“ Not quite twenty-six ! ” murmured the voice ; “ at that age he 
cannot be a traitor.” 

“Oh! no, no ! ” cried Dantes. “ I swear to you again, rather 
than betray you they shall hew me to pieces ! ” 

“ You have done well to speak to me, and entreat me, for I was 
about to form another plan, and leave you ; but your age reas- 
sures me. I will not forget you. Expect me, I will give you the 
signal.” 

“ But you will not leave me ; you will come to me, or you will 
let me come to you. We will escape, and if we cannot escape we 
will talk ; you of those whom you love, and I of those whom I 
love. You must love somebody ? ” 

** No, I am alone in the world.” 

“ Then you will love me. If you are young, I will be your 
comrade ; if you are old, I will be your son. I have a father who 
is seventy if he yet lives ; I only love him and a girl called Mer- 
cedes. My father has not yet forgotten me, I am sure ; but God 
alone knows if she loves me still : I shall love you as I loved my 
father.” 

“ It is well,” returned the voice ; “ to-morrow.” 

These few words were uttered with an accent that left no doubt 
of his sincerity ; Dantes rose, dispersed the fragments with the 
same precaution as before, and pushed back his bed against the 
wall. He then gave himself up to his happiness ; he would no 
longer be alone. He was, perhaps, about to regain his liberty ; at 
the worst, he would have a companion ; and captivity shared is 
but half captivity. 

All day Dantes walked up and down his cell. 

The jailer came in the evening ; Dantes was on his bed. It 
seemed to him that thus he better guarded the unfinished opening. 
Doubtless there was a strange expression in his eyes, for the man 
said, “ Come, are you going mad again ? ” 

Dantes did not answer ; he feared that the emotion in his voice 


42 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


would betray him. The jailer retired, shaking his head. The 
night came ; Dantes hoped that his neighbor would profit by the 
silence to address him, but he was mistaken. The next morning, 
however, just as he removed his bed from the wall, he heard three 
knocks ; he threw himself on his knees. 

“ Is it you ? ” said he, “I am here.” 

“ Is your jailer gone ? ’ ’ 

“ Yes,” said Dantes ; “ he will not return until the evening ; so 
that we have twelve hours before us.” 

11 1 can work, then,” said the voice. 

“ Oh yes, yes, without delay, I entreat you.” 

In an instant the portion of the floor on which Dant&amp;s (half 
buried in the opening) was leaning his hands, gave way ; he cast 
himself back, whilst a mass of stones and earth disappeared in a 
hole that opened beneath the aperture he himself had formed. 
Then from the bottom of this passage, the depth of which it was 
impossible to measure, he saw appear, first the head, then the 
shoulders, and lastly the body of a man, who sprang lightly into 
his cell. 


CHAPTER XVI. 

A LEARNED ITALIAN. 

Rushing towards the friend so long and ardently desired, 
Dantes almost carried him towards the window, in order to obtain 
a better view of his features by the aid of the imperfect light that 
struggled through the grating of the prison. 

He was a man of small stature, with hair blanched rather by 
suffering and sorrow than years. A deep-set, penetrating eye, al- 
most buried beneath the thick grey eyebrow, and a long (and still 
black) beard reaching down to his breast. 

The stranger might have numbered sixty, or sixty-five years ; 
but briskness and vigor in his movements made it probable that he 
was aged more from captivity than the course of time. He re- 
ceived the enthusiastic greeting of his young acquaintance with 
evident pleasure, as though his chilled affections seemed rekindled 
and invigorated by his contact with one so warm and ardent. He 
lhanked him with grateful cordiality for his kindly welcome, al- 
though he must at that moment have been suffering bitterly to find 
fcnother dungeon where he had fondly reckoned on discovering a 
Cleans of regaining his liberty. 

" Let us first see,” said he, " whether it is possible to remove 
Jhe traces of my entrance here — our future comforts depend upon 
Our keepers being entirely ignorant of it.” Advancing to the 
opening, he stooped and raised the stone as easily as though it had 
not weighed an ounce ; then, fitting it into its place, he said « 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 43 

•• You removed this stone very carelessly ; but I suppose you 
nad no tools to aid you.” 

“Why,” exclaimed Dantes, with astonishment, “ do you po&amp;* 
sess any ? ” 

“ I made myself some ; and with the exception of a file, I have 
all that are necessary-^a chisel, pincers, and lever.” 

“ Oh, how I should like to see these products of your industry 
and patience.” 

“Well, in the first place, here is my chisel.” So saying, he 
displayed a sharp strong blade, with a handle made of beechwood. 

“And with what did you contrive to make that?” inquired 
Dantes. f 

“ With one of the clamps of my bedstead ; and this very tool 
has sufficed me to hollow out the road by which I came hither, a 
distance of at least fifty feet. My labor is all in vain, for I find 
that the corridor looks into a courtyard filled with soldiers.” 

“That’s true,” said Dantes; “but the corridor you speak of 
only bounds one side of my cell ; there are three others — do you 
know anything of their situation? ” 

“ This one is built against the solid rock, and it would take ten 
experienced miners, duly furnished with the requisite tools, as 
many years to perforate it. This adjoins the lower part of the 
governor’s apartments, and were we to work our way through, we 
should only get into some lock-up cellars, where we must neces- 
sarily be recaptured. The fourth and last side of your cell looks 
out — looks out — stop a minute, now where does it open to ? ” 

The side which thus excited curiosity was the one in which was 
fixed the loophole by which the light was admitted into the cham- 
ber. This loophole, which gradually diminished as it approached 
the outside, until only an opening through which a child could not 
have passed, was, for better security, furnished with three iron 
bars, so as to quiet all apprehensions even in the mind of the most 
suspicious jailer as to the possibility of a prisoner’s escape. As 
the stranger finished his self-put question, he dragged the table 
beneath the window. 

“Climb up,” said he to Dantes. The young man obeyed, 
mounted on the table, and, divining the intentions of his compan- 
ion, placed his back securely against the wall and held out both 
hands. The stranger, whom as yet Dantes knew only by his as- 
sumed title of the number of his cell, sprang up with an agility by 
no means to be expected in a person of his years, and, light and 
steady as the bound of a cat or a lizard, climbed from the table to 
the outstretched hands of Dantes, and from them to his shoulders ; 
then, almost doubling himself in two, for the ceiling of the 
dungeon prevented his holding himself erect, he managed to slip 
his head through the top bar of the window, so as to be able t* 
command a perfect view from top to bottom. 

An instant afterwards he hastily drew back his head, saying, M I 


44 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


thought so! ” and sliding from the shoulders of Dantes as dex- 
terously as he had ascended, he nimbly leapt from the table to 
the ground. 

“ This side of your chamber looks out upon a kind of open 
gallery, where patrols are continually passing, and sentries keep 
watch day and night. I saw the soldier’s shako and the top of 
his musket ; that made me draw in my head so quickly ; for I was 
fearful he might also see me. You perceive the utter impossibil- 
ity of escaping through your dungeon ? the will of God be done ! ” 
and as the old man slowly pronounced those words, an air of pro... 
found resignation spread itself over his care-worn countenance. 
Dantes gazed on the individual who could thus philosophically 
resign hopes so long and ardently nourished with an astonishment 
mingled with admiration. 

“ Tell me, I entreat of you, who and what you are ? ” said he 
at length ; “ never have I met with so remarkable a person as 
yourself. 

The stranger smiled a melancholy smile. “ Then listen,” said 
he. “I am the Abbe F^ria, and have been imprisoned in this 
castle since the year 1811 ; previously to which I had been con- 
fined for three years in the fortress of Fenestrelle. In the year 
18 1 1 I was transferred to Piedmont in France. It was at this 
period I learned that the destiny which seemed subservient to 
every wish formed by Napoleon, had bestowed on him a son, 
named king of Rome even in his cradle. I was very far then 
from expecting the change you have just informed me of ; namely, 
that four years afterwards, this colossus of power would be over- 
thrown. Then who reigns in France at this moment — Napoleon 
II.?” 

•‘No, Louis XVIII.!” 

“The brother of Louis XVI.! How inscrutable are the way* 
of Providence — for what great and mysterious purpose has it 
pleased Heaven to abase the man once so elevated, and raise up 
the individual so beaten down and depressed ? ” 

Dantes’ whole attention was riveted on a man who could thus 
forget his own misfortunes while occupying himself with the. 
destinies of others. 

“ But so it was,” continued he, “ in England. After Charles I. 
came Cromwell ; to Cromwell succeeded Charles II., and then 
James II. , who was succeeded by some son-in-law or relation. Ah, 
my friend ! ” said the abbe, turning towards Dantes, and survey- 
ing him with the kindling gaze of a prophet, “ these are the 
changes and vicissitudes that give liberty to a nation. Mark what 
I say ! You are young, and may see my words come to pass, that 
such will be the case with France — you will see it, I say.” 

“ Probably, if ever I get out of prison ! ” 

“True,” replied Faria, “we are prisoners; but I forget this 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CEISTO. 


45 


sometimes, and there are even moments when my mental vision 
transports me beyond these walls, and I fancy myself at liberty/’ 
i 4 But wherefore are you here? ” 

“ Because in 1807 I meditated the very scheme Napoleon 
wished to realize in 1811. Italy seems fated to be unlucky,” 
The old man uttered these last words in a tone of deep dejection, 
and his head fell listlessly on his breast. 

To Dantes all this was perfectly incomprehensible. 

41 Pray excuse my question,” said he, beginning to partake of 
the jailer’s opinion touching the state of the priest’s brain, 44 bu~ 
are you not the priest who is considered throughout the castle — to 
— be — queer?” 

44 Mad, you mean, don’t you ? ” 

44 1 did not like to say so,” answered Dantes smiling. 

44 Well, then,” resumed Faria, with a bitter smile, #, let me 
answer your question in full, by acknowledging that I am the poor 
mad prisoner for many years permitted to amuse the different 
visitants to the prison with what is said to be my insanity ; and, in 
all probability, I should be promoted to the honr*r of making sport 
for the children, if such innocent beings could be found in an 
abode devoted like this to suffering and despair.” 

Dantes remained for a short time mute and motionless ; at 
length he said, — 44 Then you abandon all hope of flight? ” 

44 1 perceive its utter impossibility ; and I consider it impious to 
attempt that which the Almighty evidently does not approve.” 
Dantes held down his head, that his companion might not per- 
ceive how little of real regret at the failure of the scheme was 
expressed on his countenance ; but in truth, the young man could 
entertain no other feeling than delight at finding his prison would 
be no longer solitary or uncheered by human participation. 

The abbe sunk upon Edmond’s bed, while Edmond himself 
remained standing, lost in a train of deep meditation. 

After some time, the young man suddenly exclaimed, 44 1 have 
found what you were in search of! I will tell you what we must 
do. We must pierce through the corridor by forming a side open- 
ing about the middle, as it were the top part of a cross. This time 
you will lay your plans more accurately ; we shall get out into the 
gallery you have described ; kill the sentinel who guards it, and 
make our escape. All we require to insure success is courage, and 
that you possess, and strength, which I am not deficient in ; as for 
patience, you have abundantly proved yours — you shall now see 
me prove mine.” 

“One instant, my dear friend,” replied the abbe; “I have 
thought it no sin to bore through a wall, or destroy a staircase ; 
but I cannot so easily persuade myself to pierce a heart or take 
away a life.” A slight start of surprise escaped Dantes. 

44 Is it possible,” said he, 44 that where your liberty is at stake 
you can allow any such scruple to deter you from obtaining it?* 1 


4 6 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


“Tell me,” replied Faria, “what has hindered you from 
knocking down your jailer with a piece of wood torn from youf 
bedstead, dressing yourself in his clothes, and endeavoring to 
escape?” 

“ Simply that I never thought of such a scheme,” answered 
Dantes. 

“ Because,” said the old man, “ the natural repugnance to the 
commission of such a crime prevented its bare idea from occur- 
ring to you ; and so it ever is with all simple and allowable 
things. Our natural instincts keep us from deviating from the 
strict line of duty.” 

Dantes remained confused and silent by this explanation of 
the thoughts which had uneonsciously been working in his mind, 
or rather soul ; for there are two distinct sorts of ideas, those 
that proceed from the head and those from the heart. 

“Since my imprisonment,” said Faria, “I have thought over 
all the most celebrated cases of escape recorded. Among the 
many that have failed in obtaining the ultimate release of the 
prisoner, I consider there has been a precipitation — a haste wholly 
incompatible with such undertakings. I have come to the con- 
clusion, that chance frequently affords opportunities we should 
never ourselves have thought of. Let us, therefore, wait patiently 
for some favorable moment ; rely upon it, you will not find me 
more backward than yourself in seizing it.” 

“Ah! ” said Dantes, “you might well endure the tedious de- 
dious delay ; you were constantly employed in the task you set 
yourself, and when weary with toil, you had your hopes to re- 
fresh and encourage you.” 

“I assure you,” replied the old man, “I did not turn to that 
source for recreation or support.” 

“ What did you do then ? ” “ I wrote or studied.” 

“Were you then permitted the use of pens, ink, and paper? ” 

“ Oh, no ! ” answered the abbe ; “ I had none but what I made 
for myself.” 

Dantes gazed with kindling eyes and rapidly increasing ad- 
miration on the wonderful being whose hand seemed a magi- 
cian’s wand ; some doubt, however, still lingered in his mind, 
which was quickly perceived by the penetrating eye. 

“When you pay me a visit in my cell, my young friend,” 
said he, “ I will show you an entire work, the fruits of the thoughts 
and reflections of my whole life. The work I speak of is called 
4 On the Practicability of forming Italy into one General Mon- 
archy/ and will make one large quarto volume.” 

“ And on what have you written all this? ” 

“On two of my shirts. I invented a preparation that make* 
linen as smooth and as easy to write on as parchment.” 

“ But for sueh a work you must have needed books — had 
you any l ", 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


47 


•* I possessed nearly 5,000 volumes in my library at Rome; 
but after reading them over many times, I found out that with 
150 well-chosen books a man possesses a complete analysis of all 
human knowledge, or at least all that is either useful or desir- 
able to be acquainted with. I devoted three years of my life to 
reading and studying these 150 volumes, till I knew them nearly 
by heart ; so that since I have been in prison, a very slight effort 
of memory has enabled me to recall their contents as readily as 
though the pages were open before me.” 

“You are, doubtless, acquainted with a variety of languages, so 
as to have been able to read all these ? ” 

“Yes, I speak five of the modern tongues — , German, French, 
Italian, English, and Spanish ; by the aid of ancient Greek I 
learned modern Greek — I don’t speak it so well as I could wish, 
but I am still trying to improve myself.” 

“Improve yourself!” repeated Dantes; “why, how can you 
manage to do so ? ” 

“ Why, I made a vocabulary of the words I knew ; turned, re- 
turned, and arranged them, so as to enable me to express my 
thoughts through their medium. I know nearly one thousand 
words, which is all that is absolutely necessary, although I believe 
there are nearly one hundred thousand in the dictionaries. I 
cannot hope to be very fluent, but I certainly should have no 
difficulty in explaining my wants and wishes ; and that would be 
quite as much as I should ever require.” 

Stronger grew the wonder of Dantes, who almost fancied he 
had to do with one gifted with supernatural powers ; still hop- 
ing to find some imperfection which might bring him down to a 
level with human beings, he added, “Then if you were not 
furnished with pens, how did you manage to write the work you 
speak of? ” 

“ I made myself some excellent ones, which would be uni- 
versally preferred to all others if once known. You are aware 
what huge whitings are served to us on fast days. Well, I se- 
lected the cartilages of the heads, and you can scarcely imagine 
the delight with which I welcomed the arrival of each day, affording 
me the means of increasing my stock of pens ; for I will freely 
confess that my historical labors have been my greatest solace 
and relief. While retracing the past, I forget the present ; and 
while following the free and independent course of historical 
record, I cease to remember that I am myself immured within 
the gloomy walls of a dungeon.” 

“But the ink requisite for copying down your ideas,” said 
Dantes, “ how have you procured that?” 

“ I will tell you,” replied Faria. “ There was formerly a fire- 
place in my dungeon, but closed up long ere I became an occu- 
pant of this prison. Still, it must have been many yeare in use, 
for it was thickly covered with a coating of soot : this soot I ai s- 


48 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


solved in a portion of the wine brought to me every Sunday, and 
I assure you a better ink cannot be desired. For very important 
notes, for which closer attention is required, I have pricked one of 
y fingers, and written the facts claiming notice in blood.” 

41 And when,” asked Dantes, 44 will you show me all this? ” 

44 Whenever you please,” replied the abbe. 

44 Oh, then let it be directly ! ” exclaimed the young man. 

44 Follow me, then/’ said the priest, as he re-entered the sub- 
terraneous passage, in which he soon disappeared, followed by 
Dantes. 

After having passed with tolerable ease through the subterran- 
ean passage, which, however, did not admit of their holding them- 
selves erect, the two friends reached the further end of the corri- 
dor, into which the cell of the abbe opened ; from that point the 
opening became much narrower, barely permitting an individual 
to creep through on his hands and knees. The floor of the cell 
was paved, and it had been by raising one of the stones in the 
most obscure corner that Faria had been able to commence the 
laborious task of which Dantes had witnessed the completion. 

As he entered the chamber of his friend, Dantes cast around 
one eager and searching glance in quest of the expected marvels, 
but nothing more than common met his view. 

44 It is well,” said the abbe ; 44 we have some hours before us — 
it is now just a quarter past twelve o’clock.” Instinctively Dantes 
turned round to observe by what watch or clock the abbe had 
been able so accurately to specify the hour. 

44 Look at this ray of light which enters by my window,” said 
the abbe, 44 and then observe the lines traced on the wall. Well, 
by means of these lines, I am enabled to ascertain the precise 
hour with more minuteness than if I possessed a watch.” 

This last explanation was wholly lost upon Dantes, who had 
always imagined, from seeing the sun rise from behind the 
mountains and set in the Mediterranean, that it moved, and not 
the earth. 

44 Come,” said he, 44 show me the wonderful inventions you 
told me of — I am all impatience to behold them.” 

The priest smiled, and, proceeding to the disused fireplace, 
raised, by the help of his chisel, a long stone, which had doubt- 
less been the hearth, beneath which was a cavity of consider- 
able depth, serving as a safe depository of the articles men- 
tioned to Dantes. 

44 What do you wish to see first? ’* asked the abbe. 

44 Oh ! your great work on the monarchy of Italy ! ' 

Faria then drew forth from his hiding-place three or four rolls 
of linen, laid one over the other, like the folds of papyrus found 
m mummy-cases. These rolls consisted of slips of cloth about 
four inches wide and eighteen long ; they were all carefully num- 
bered and closely covered with writing* so legible that Dante? 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTQ. 

could easily read it, as well as make out the sense —it being in 
Italian, a language he, as a Provencal, perfectly understood. 

“There! ” said he, “ there is the work complete — I wrote the 
word finis at the end of the last page about a week ago. 1 
have torn up two of my shirts, and as many handkerchiefs as 
I was master of, to complete the precious pages. Should I ever 
get out of prison, and find a printer courageous enough to publish 
what I have composed, my literary reputation is for ever secured.” 

“I see,” answered Dantes. “ Now let me behold the curious 
pens with which you have written your work.” 

“Look!” said Faria, showing to the young man a slender 
stick about six inches long, and much resembling the size of the 
handle of a fine painting-brush, to the end of which was tied, 
by a piece of thread, one of those cartilages of which the abbe 
had before spoken to Dantes ; it was pointed, and split at the nib 
like an ordinary pen. Dantes examined it with intense admira- 
tion, then looked around to see the instrument with which it had 
been shaped so correctly into form. 

“Ah, I see,” said Faria, “you are wondering where I found my 
pen-knife, are not you? Well, I must confess that I look upon 
that article of my ingenuity as the very perfection of all my handi- 
works. I made it, as well as this knife, out of a a old iron candle- 
stick.” The penknife was sharp and keen as a razor ; as for the 
other knife, it possessed the double advantage of being capable 
of serving either as a dagger or a knife. 

Dantes examined the various articles showir to him with tha 
same attention he had bestowed on the curiosities and strange 
tools exhibited in the shops at Marseilles as the works of the sav- 
ages in the South Seas from whence they had been brought bj* 
the different trading vessels. 

“As for the ink,” said Faria, “ I told you bnv I managed to 
obtain that — and I only just make it from time to time, as I re- 
quire it.” 

“There is one thing puzzles me still,” observed Dantes, “ and 
that is how you managed to do all this by daylight? ” 

“ I worked at night also,” replied Farie. “ I separated the fat 
from the meat served to me, melted it, and mad* a most capital 
oil — here is my lamp.” So saying, he exhibited a sort of floating 
wick lamp. 

“But how do you procure a light ? * 

Oh, here are two flints and a morsel of burnt lLien.” 

“ And your matches? ” 

“ Were easily prepared. I feigned a disorder of the skin, and 
asked for a little sulphur, which was readily supplied. Dantes 
laid the different things he had been looking atgentl/ on the table, 
and stood with his head drooping on his breast, as though over- 
whelmed by the persevering spirit and strength of &lt; *»aracter de- 
veloped in each fresh trait of his new-found friend’i induct. 

4 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


- 5 &amp; 

'‘You have not seen all yet,” continued Faria, “for I did not 
think it wise to trust all my treasures in the same hiding-place. 
Let us shut this one up, and then you shall see what else I have to 
display.” Dantes helped him to replace the stone as they first 
found it ; the abbe sprinkled a little dust over it to conceal the 
traces of its having been removed, rubbed his foot well on it to 
make it assume the same appearance as the other, and then, going 
toward his bed, he removed it from the spot it stood in. Behind 
the head of the bed, and concealed by a stone fitting in so closely 
as to defy all suspicion, was a hollow space, and in this space a 
ladder of cords, between twenty-five and thirty feet in length* 
Dantes closely and eagerly examined it : he found it firm, solid, 
and compact enough to bear any weight. 

“ Who supplied you with the materials for making this wonder- 
ful work?” asked Dantes. 

“No one but myself. I tore up several of my shirts, and un- 
ravelled the sheets of my bed, during my three years’ imprison- 
ment at Fenestrelle ; and when I was removed to the Chateau 
d’lf, I managed to bring the ravellings with me, so that I have 
been able to finish my work here.” 

“ And was it not discovered that your sheets were unhemmed? ” 

“Oh, no! for when I had taken out the thread I required, I 
hemmed the edges over again.” 

“ With what?” 

“With this needle!” said the abbe, as, opening his ragged 
vestments, he showed Dantes a long, sharp fish-bone, with a small 
perforated eye for the thread, a small portion of which still re- 
mained in it. “I once thought,” continued Faria, “of remov- 
ing these iron bars, and letting myself down from the window, 
which, as you see, is somewhat wider than yours, although I 
should have enlarged it still more preparatory to my flight; how- 
ever, I discovered that I should merely have dropped into a sort 
of inner court, and I therefore renounced the project altogether as 
too full of risk and danger. Nevertheless, I carefully preserved 
my ladder against one of those unforeseen opportunities of which 
I spoke just now, and which sudden chance frequently brings 
about.” While affecting to be deeply engaged in examining the 
ladder, the mind of Dantes was, in fact, busily occupied by the 
idea that a person so intelligent, ingenious, and clear-sighted, 
might probably be enabled to dive into the dark recesses of his 
own misfortunes, and cause that light to shine upon the mystery 
connected with them he had in vain sought to elicit. 

“What are you thinking of?” asked the abbe smilingly, im- 
puting the deep abstraction in which his visitor v/as plunged to the 
excess of his awe and wonder. 

“ I v/as reflecting, in the first place,” replied Dantes, “ upon the 
enormous degree of intelligence and ability you must have em- 
ployed to reach the high perfection to which you have attained. If 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 5 1 

you thus surpass all mankind while but a prisoner, what would you 
^aot have accomplished free ?” 

“ Possibly nothing at all ; the overflow of my brain would prob- 
ably, in a state of freedom, have evaporated in a thousand follies ; 
it needs trouble and difficulty and danger to hollow out various 
mysterious and hidden mines of human intelligence. Pressure is 
required, you know, to ignite powder : captivity has collected into 
one single focus all the floating faculties of my mind ; they have 
come into close contact in the narrow space in which they have 
been wedged ; and you are well aware that from the collision of 
clouds electricity is produced — from electricity comes the lightning, 
from whose flash we have light amid our greatest darkness.” 
“Alas, no!” replied Dantes. “I know not that these things 
follow in such natural order. Oh, I am very ignorant ! and you 
must be blessed indeed to possess the knowledge you have.” 

The abbe smiled. “ Well,” said he, “ but you had another 
subject for your thoughts besides admiration for me ; did you not 
say so just now? I did ! ” 

“ You have told me as yet but one of them, — let me hear the 
other." 

a&lt; It was this : — that while you had related to me all the par- 
ticulars of your past life, you were perfectly unacquainted with 
mine.” 

“ Your life, my young friend, has not been of sufficient length 
to admit of your having passed through any very important 
events.” 

“ It has been long enough to inflict on me a misfortune so great, 
so crushingly overwhelming, that, unconscious as I am of having 
\n any way deserved it, I would fain know who, of all mankind, 
has been the accursed author of it, that I may no longer accuse 
Heaven, as I have done in my fury and despair, of wilful injus- 
tice toward an innocent and injured man.” 

“ Then you profess ignorance of the crime with which you are 
charged ? ” 

"I do, indeed ; and this I swear by the two beings most dear to 
me upon earth — my father and Mercedes.” 

“ Come,” said the abbe, closing his hiding-place, and pushing 
the bed back to its original situation, “ let me hear your story.” 
Dantes obeyed. 

His recital finished, the abbe reflected long and earnestly. 

“ There is,” said he at the end of his meditations, “ a clever 
maxim : — that if you wish to discover the guilty, seek him to 
whom the perpetration is advantageous. Now, to apply it in your 
case : — to whom could your disappearance have been service- 
able ? * * 

“ To no breathing soul. Why, who could have cared about the 
removal of so insignificant a person as myself? ” 

Do not speak thus, for your reply evinces neither logic nor phU« 


5 2 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


osophy ; but let us return to your world. You say you were on 
the point of being appointed captain of the Pharaoh f ” 

1 ‘ And about to become the husband of a young and lovely girl ? ” 
True.” 

“Now, could any one have had any interest in preventing the 
accomplishment of these two circumstances ? But let us first set- 
tle the question as to its being the interest of anyone to hinder you 
from being captain of the Pharaoh. What say you ? ” 

41 1 cannot believe such was the case. I was generally liked on 
board ; and had the sailors possessed the right of selecting a cap. 
tain themselves, I feel convinced their choice would have fallen 
on me. There was only one person among the crew who had any 
feeling of ill-will towards me. I had quarrelled with him some 
time previously, and had even challenged him to fight me ; but he 
refused.” 

“ Now we are getting on. And what was this man’s name ? ” 

“ Danglars, the supercargo.” 

“ And had you been captain, should you have retained him in 
his employment ? ” 

“Not if the choice had remained with me, for I had frequently 
observed inaccuracies in his accounts.” 

“ Good again ! Now then, tell me, was any person present dur- 
ing your last conversation with Captain Leclere?” — —“No, 
stay ! now I recollect, — Danglars himself passed by just as Cap- 
tain Leclere was giving me the packet for the grand marshal.” 
“That will do,” cried the abbe ; “now we are on the right 
scent. Did you take anybody with you when you put into the 
port of Elba ? ” “ Nobody.” 

“ Somebody there received your packet, and gave you a letter 

in place of it, I think ? ” “ Yes : the grand marshal did.” 

“ And what did you do with that letter ? ” “ Put it into my 

pocket-book on my return to the ship.” 

“ And what did you do with this same letter while returning from 

Porto Ferrajo to your vessel?” “ I carried it in my hand.” 

“ So that when you went on board everybody could perceive 
you held a letter in your hand ? Danglars as well as the rest ? ” 

“ Yes ; he as well as others.” 

“ Now, listen to me, and try to recall every circumstance at- 
tending your arrest. Do you recollect the words in which the in- 
formation against you was couched? ” 

!. Dantes paused a few instants, as though collecting his ideas, 
*then said, “ This is it, word for word : — ‘ The Royal Persecutor is 
informed by a friend to the Throne and Religion that one Edmond 
Dantes, first mate of the ship Pharaoh , in this morning from 
Smyrna, after touching at Naples and Porto Ferrajo, was charged 
by Murat with a letter for the Usurper, and by the latter with 
another for the Bonapartist Club at Paris. The proof of his crime 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 53 

will be found on arresting him ; for he will have the letter on him, 
or it will be at his father’s, or aboard the ship.’ ” 

The abbe shrugged up his shoulders. “ The thing is clear as 
day,” said he ; “ and you must have had a very unsuspecting na- 
ture, as well as a good heart, not to have suspected the origin of 
the whole affair.” 

“ Do you really think so ? Ah, that would indeed be the treachi 
ery of a villain ! ” 

“ How did Danglars usually write?” 11 Oh ! extremely 

well.” 

“ And how was the anonymous letter written ? M 
“ All the wrong way — backwards, you know.” Again the abbe 

smiled. “In fact it was a disguised hand ? ” “I don’t know; 

it was very boldly written, if disguised.” 

“ Stop a bit,” said the abbe, taking up what he called his pen, 
and, after dipping it into the ink, he wrote on a morsel of pre, 
pared linen, with his left hand, the first two or three words of the 
accusation. Dantes drew back, and gazed on the abbd with a 
sensation almost amounting to terror. 

“How very astonishing!” cried he, at length. “ Why your 
writing exactly resembles that of the accusation ! ” 

“ Simply because that accusation had been written with the left 

hand ; and I have always remarked one thing ” 

“What is that?” “That whereas all writing with the right 

hand varies, that performed with the left hand is invariably 
similar.” 

“ Now as regards the second question. Was there any person 
whose interest it was to prevent your marriage with Mercedes ? ” 

“ Yes, a young man who loved her, Fernand, a Catalan.” 

“You imagine him capable of writing the letter ? ” 

“ Oh, no ! he would more likely have got rid of me by sticking 
a knife into me.” 

“ That is in strict accordance with the Spanish character ; an 
assassination they will unhesitatingly commit, but an act of cow- 
ardice, never.” 

“ Ilesides,” said Dantes, “ the various circumstances mentioned 
in the letter were wholly unknown to him.” 

“ You had never spoken of them yourself to any one ? ” 

“ No, not even to my betrothed bride.” 1 

“ Then it is Danglars, beyond a doubt.” 

“ Pray was Danglars acquainted with Fernand ? ” 

“No yes, he was. Now I recollect them both sitting at 

table together beneath an inn arbour the evening before the day 
fixed for my wedding. They were in earnest conversation. Dang- 
lars was joking in a friendly way, but Fernand looked pale and 
agitated.” 

“ Were they alone ? ” “ There was a third person with them 

whom I knew perfectly well, and who had, in all probability, made 


54 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


their acquaintance ; a tailor named Caderousse, but he was quite 
intoxicated. Stay ! — stay ! — How strange that it should not nave 
occurred to me before ! Now I remember quite well, that on the 
table round which they were sitting were pens, ink, and paper. 
Oh! the heartless treacherous scoundrels!” exclaimed Dantes, 
pressing his hand to his throbbing brows. 

“ Is there anything else I can assist you in discovering, besides 
the villany of your friends ? ” inquired the abbe. 

“ Yes, yes,” replied Dantes, eagerly ; “ I would beg of you, who 
see so completely to the depths of things, and to whom the greatest 
mystery seems but an easy riddle, to explain to me how it was 
that I underwent no second examination, was never brought to 
trial, and above all, my being condemned without ever having had 
sentence passed on me? ” 

“ That is altogether a different and more serious matter,” re- 
sponded the abbe, “ The ways of justice are frequently too dark 
and mysterious to be easily penetrated. All we have hitherto done 
in the matter has been child’s play. If you wish me to enter upon 
the more difficult part of the business, you must assist me by the 
most minute information on every point.” 

“That I will gladly. So pray begin, my dear abbe, and ask 
me whatever questions you please ; for, in good truth, you seem to 
turn over the pages of my past life far better than I could do my- 
self.” 

“ In the first place, then, who examined you, — the prosecutor, 
his deputy, or a magistrate ? ” 

“ The deputy.” 

“ Was he young or old ? •• About six or seven-and- twenty 

years of age, I should say.” 

“To be sure,” answered the abbe. “ Old enough to be ambi* 
tious, but not sufficiently so to have hardened his heart. And 
how did he treat you ? ” 

“ With more of mildness than severity. He seemed quite over- 
come at the thoughts of the danger I was in.” 

“ You were in? ” “ Yes : for whom else could he have felt 

any apprehensions! ” 

“ Then you feel quite convinced he sincerely pitied your misfor- 
tune? ” 

“Why, he gave me one great proof of his sympathy, at least. 
He burnt the sole proof that could at all have criminated me, the 
letter I was entrusted to convey to Paris.” 

“ Ay, indeed! that alters the case, and leads to the conclusion 
that this man might, after all, be a greater scoundrel than I at first 
believed.” 

“ Upon my word,” said Dantes, “you make me shudder. If I 
listen much longer to you, I shall believe the world is filled with 
tigers and crocodiles.” 

“ Only remember that two-legged tigers and crocodiles t*T 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 55 

mw?f &lt;l&amp;ngerous than those that walk on four. You tell me he 
buvflf the letter in your presence ? ” 

4 He did ; saying at the same time, * You see I thus destroy the 
only proof existing against you.” 

“Tfds action is somewhat too sublime to be natural. To whom 
was tl&amp;s letter addressed ? ” 

"T^M. Noirtier. No. 13, Rue Coq-Heron, Paris.” 

“ No;,rtier,” repeated the abbe ; " Noirtier! — I knew a person 
of that #iame at the court of the Queen of Etruria, — a Noirtier, a 
Girondin during the Revolution ! What was your deputy named ? ” 
“ De Villefort ! ” The abbe burst into a fit of laughter ; while 
Dantes gazed on him in utter astonishment. 

“ What ails you ? ” said he, at length. 

" Do you see this ray of light? ” " I do.” 

“ Well ! I see my way into the full meaning of all the proceed- 
ings against you more clearly than you even discern that sunbeam. 
Poor fellow! poor young man! And you tell me this magistrate 
expressed great sympathy and commiseration for you, and de- 
stroyed your compromising letter ? ” 

" He burnt it before me! ” 

“ Why, you poor short-sighted simpleton, can you not guess who 
this Noirtier was, whose very name he was so careful to keep con- 
cealed ? ” 

"Indeed I cannot ! ” 

" No other than the father of your sympathetic deputy-prosecu- 
tor.” 

Had a thunderbolt fallen at the feet of Dantes, or hell opened its 
yawning gulf before him, he could not have been more completely 
transfixed with horror than at the sound of words so wholly unex- 
pected, revealing as they did the fiendish perfidy which had con- 
signed him to wear out his days in the dark cell of a prison that 
was to him as a living grave. Starting up, he clasped his hands 
around his head as though to prevent his very brain from bursting, 
as in a choked and almost inarticulate voice he exclaimed, " His 
father ! oh, no ! not his father, surely ! ” 

"His own father, I assure you,” replied the abbe ; "his right 
name was Noirtier de Villefort!” At this instant a bright light 
shot through the mind of Dantes, and cleared up all that had been 
dark and obscure before. He hurried to the opening conducting 
from the cell to his own, and said, — "I must be alone to think 
over all this.” 

When he regained his dungeon, he threw himself on his bed, 
where the turnkey found him at his evening visit, sitting, with fixed 
gaze and contracted features, still and motionless as a statue ; but 
during hours of deep meditation, which to him had seemed but as 
minutes, he had formed a fearful resolution, and bound himself to 
its fulfilment by a solemn oath. Dantes was at length roused from 
his reverie by the voice of T aria who, having also been visited by 


2 HE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


&amp; 

his jailer had come to invite his fellow sufferer to share his supper. 
The reputation of being out of his mind, though harmlessly and 
even amusingly so, had procured for the abbe greater privileges 
than allowed in general. He was supplied with bread of a finer, 
whiter description than the usual prison fare, and even regaled 
each Sunday with wine : the present day chanced to be Sunday, 
and the priest came, delighted at having such luxuries to offer his 
new friend. Dantes followed him with a firm and assured step ; 
|his features had lost their almost spasmodic contraction, and now 
wore their usual expression ; but there was that in his whole ap- 
pearance that bespoke one who had come to a fixed and desperate 
resolve. Faria bent on him his penetrating eye : “ I regret now,*' 
said he, 44 having helped you in your late inquiries, or having 
given you the information I did, because it has instilled a new 
passion in you heart — that of vengeance.’* 

A bitter smile played over the features of the young man : 44 Let 
us talk of something else,” said he. 

Again the abbe looked at him, then mournfully shook his head r 
but in accordance with Dantes’ request he began to speak of other 
matters. 

44 You must teach me a small part of what you know,” said 
Dantes, 4 4 if only to prevent your growing weary of me. I can 
well believe that so learned a person as yourself would prefer ab- 
solute solitude to being tormented with the company of one as ig- 
norant and uninformed as myself. If you will only agree to my 
request, I promise you never to mention another word about escap- 
ing.” The abbe smiled. 44 Alas ! my child,** said he, 44 human 
knowledge is confined within very narrow limits ; and when I have 
taught you mathematics, physics, history, and the three or four 
modern languages with which I am acquainted, you will know as 
much as I do myself. Now, it will scarcely require two years for 
me to communicate to you the stock of learning I possess.” 

44 Two years! ” exclaimed Dantes ; 44 do you really believe 1 

can acquire all these things in so short a time?” 44 Not theii 7 

application, certainly, but their principles you may ; to learn is 
not to know ; there are the learners and the learned. Memory 
makes the one, philosophy the other.** 

44 But can I not learn philosophy as well as other things ? *’ 

44 My son, philosophy, as I understand it, is reducible to no 
rules by which it can be learned ; it is the amalgamation of all the 
sciences, the golden cloud which bears the soul to heaven.** 

44 Well, then,*’ said Dantes, 44 leaving philosophy out of the 
question, tell me what you shall teach me first? I feel my great 
need of scientific knowledge, and long to begin the work of im- 
provement ; say, when shall we commence?** 

44 Directly, if you will,” said the abbe. And that very evening 
the prisoners sketched a plan of education, to be entered upon the 
following day, Dantes possessed a prodigious memory, combined 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


ST 


«dth an astonishing quickness and readiness of conception ; ab- 
sorbed in the acquisition of knowledge, days, even months, passed 
by unheeded in one rapid and instructive course ; time flew on# 
and at the end of a year Dantes was a new man. 

They began a fresh tunnel. In fifteen months, it was made, 
the excavation completed beneath the gallery, and the two work- 
men could distinctly hear the measured tread of the sentinel as he 
paced to and fro over their heads. 

Compelled, as they were, to await a night sufficiently dark to 
favor their flight, they were obliged to defer their final attempt till 
that auspicious moment should arrive ; their greatest dread now 
Was lest the stone through which the sentry was doomed to fall 
should give way before its right time, and this they had in some 
measure provided against by placing under it, a prop, discovered 
among the foundations. Dantes was occupied in arranging this 
piece of wood when he heard Faria, who had remained in Ed- 
mond’s cell for the purpose of cutting a peg to secure their rope- 
ladder, call to him in suffering. Dantes hastened to his dungeon, 
where he found him standing in the middle pale as death, his fore- 
head streaming with perspiration, and his hands clenched. 

“Heavens!” exclaimed Dantes, “ what is the matter ? what 
ails you? ” 

“Quick! quick!” returned the abbe, “listen. I am seized 
with a terrible, perhaps mortal illness ; I can feel that the parox- 
ysm is fast approaching. I had a similar attack the year previous 
to my imprisonment. This malady admits but of one remedy ; I 
will tell you what that is. Go into my cell as quickly as you can ; 
draw out one of the feet that support the bed ; you will find it has 
been hollowed out for the purpose of containing a small phial you 
will see there half-filled with a red-looking fluid. Bring it to me 

or rather, no, no ! I may be found here ; therefore help me 
back to my room while I have any strength to drag myself 
along. Who knows what may happen, or how long the fit may 
last?” 

Spite of the misfortune which thu3 suddenly frustrated his 
hopes, Dant&amp;s lost not his presence of mind, but descended into 
the corridor, dragging his unfortunate companion with him ; then, 
half carrying, half supporting him, he managed to reach the 
abbe’s chamber, when he immediately laid the sufferer on his 
bed. 

“Thanks!” said the poor priest, shivering as though his veins 
were filled with ice. “ Now that I am safely here, let me explain 
to you the nature of my attack, and the appearance it will pre- 
sent. I am seized with a fit of catalepsy ; when it comes to its 
height, I may, probably, lie still and motionless as though dead, 
uttering neither sigh nor groan. On the other hand, the symp- 
toms may be much more violent, and cause me to fall into 
jarful convulsions, cover my lips with foaming, and force from 


58 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

me the most piercing shrieks. This last evil you must carefully 
guard against, for, were my cries to be heard, it is more than probable 
I should be removed to another part of the prison, and we be 
separated for ever. When I become quite motionless, cold, and 
rigid as a corpse, then, and not before, you understand, force 
open my teeth with a chisel, pour from eight to ten drops of the 
liquor contained in the phial down my throat, and I may perhaps 
revive.” 

“ Perhaps? ” exclaimed Dantes, in grief-stricken tones. 

“ Help ! help ! ” cried the abbe, 11 1 — I — die — I ” 

So sudden and violent was the fit, that the unfortunate prisoner 
was unable to complete the sentence begun. The fit lasted two 
hours ; then, more helpless than an infant, and colder and paler 
than marble, more crushed and broken than a reed trampled 
under foot, he stretched himself out as though in the agonies of 
death, and became of the ghastly hue of the tomb. 

Edmond waited till life seemed extinct in the body of his friend, 
then, taking up the chisel, he with difficulty forced open the closely- 
fixed jaws, ^carefully poured the appointed number of drops down 
the rigid thPoat, and anxiously awaited the result. An hour passed 
away without the old man’s giving the least sign of returning 
animation. At length a slight color tinged the livid cheeks, con- 
sciousness returned to the dull, open eyeballs, a faint sigh issued 
from the lips, and the sufferer made a feeble effort to move. 

“He is saved! saved! ” cried Dantes, in a paroxysm of de- 
light. 

The sick man was not yet able to speak, but he pointed with 
evident anxiety toward the door. Dantes listened, and plainly 
distinguished the approaching steps of the jailer. It was there- 
fore near seven o’clock ; but Edmond’s anxiety had put all 
thoughts of time out of his head. The young man sprang to the 
entrance, darted through it, carefully drawing the stone over the 
opening, and hurried to his cell. He had scarcely done so before 
the door opened, and disclosed to the jailer’s inquisitorial gaze 
the prisoner seated as usual on the side of his bed. Almost be- 
fore the key had turned in the lock, and before the departing 
steps of the jailer had died away in the long corridor he had to 
traverse, Dantes, whose restless anxiety concerning his friend left 
him no desire to touch the food brought him, hurried back to the 
abbe’s chamber, and raising the stone by pressing his head 
against it, was soon beside the sick man’s couch. Faria had 
now fully regained his consciousness, but he still lay helpless and 
exhausted on his miserable bed. 

“ I did not expect to see you again,” said he, feebly, to Dan- 
tes. 

“And why not?” asked the young man. “Did you fancy 
yourself dying?” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


59 


11 No, I had no such idea ; but, knowing that all was ready for 
your flight, I considered you had availed yourself of it, and were 
gone.” The deep glow of indignation suffused the cheeks of 
Dantes. 

“And did you really think so meanly of me,” cried he, “as 

to believe I would depart without you ? ” “ At least,” said the 

abbe, “ I now see how wrong such an opinion would have been. 
Alas, alas ! The attack which has just passed away, condemns* 
me for ever to the walls of a prison. None can fly from their 
dungeon but those who can walk. Here, remain till the hour 
of my deliverance arrives ; and that, in all human probability, 
will be the hour of my death. As for you, who are young and 
active, delay not on my account, but fly — go — I give you back 
your promise.” 

“It is well,” said Dantes. “And now hear my determination 
also.” Then, risi»g and extending his hand with an air of 
solemnity over the old man’s head, he slowly added, “ Here I 
swear to remain with you so long as life is spared to you, and that 
death only shall divide us.” 

Faria gazed fondly on his noble-minded but single-hearted 
young friend, and read in his honest, open countenance ample 
confirmation of truthfulness, as well as sincere, affectionate, and 
faithful devotion. 

“Thanks, my child,” murmured the invalid, extending the one 
hand of which he still retained the use. “Thanks for you gener- 
ous offer, which I accept as frankly as it was made.” Then, after 
a short pause, he added, “You may one of these days reap the 
reward of your disinterested devotion. But as I cannot, and you 
will not, quit this place, it becomes necessary to fill up the excava- 
tion beneath the soldier’s gallery ; he might, by chance, find out 
the hollow sound produced by his footsteps over the excavated 
ground, and call the attention of his officer to the circumstance. 
That would bring about a discovery which would inevitably lead 
to our being separated. Go, then, and set about this work, in 
which, unhappily, I can offer you no assistance ; keep at it all 
night, if necessary, and do not return here to-morrow till after the 
jailer has visited me. I shall have something of the greatest im- 
portance to communicate to you.” 

Dantes took the hand of the abbe who smiled encouragingly, 
and retired with the respect and obedience pledged to his aged 
friend, 


6o 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO* 


CHAPTER IX. 

THE CARDINAL’S TREASURE. 

' When Dantes returned next morning to the chamber of his 
companion in captivity, he found Faria calmly seated. In the ray 
of light which entered by the narrow window, he held open in 
his left hand, of which alone, he retained the use, a morsel of 
paper, which, from being constantly rolled into a small compass, 
had the form of a cylinder, and was not easily kept open. He 
did not speak, but showed the paper to Dantes. 

44 Look at it,” said the abbe, with a smile. 

44 1 have looked at it with all possible attention,” said Dant&amp;s, 
44 and I only see a half-burnt paper, on which are traces of Gothic 
characters, traced with a peculiar kind of ink.” 

44 This paper, my friend,” said Faria. 44 1 may now avow to 
you, since I have proved you — this paper is my treasure, of 
which, from this day forth, one half belongs to you.” 

A cold damp started to Dantes’ brow. 

44 Alas! ” murmured he, 44 this is a terrible relapse ! There was 
only this blow wanting.” Then he said aloud, 44 My dear 
friend, your attack has, perhaps, fatigued you ; had you not better 
repose awhile? To-morrow, if you will, I will hear your nar- 
rative ; but to-day I wish to nurse you carefully^ Besides,” he 
said, 4 * a treasure is not a thing we need hurry.” 

44 On the contrary, it must be hurried, Edmond! ” replied the 
old man. 44 Who knows if to-morrow, or the next day after, the 
third attack may not come on ? and then must not all be finished ? 
Yes, indeed, I have often thought with a bitter joy that these riches, 
which would make the wealth of a dozen families, will be for ever 
lost to those men who persecute me. This idea was one of ven- 
geance to me, and I tasted it slowly in the night of my dungeon 
and the despair of my captivity. But now I have forgiven the 
world for the love of you ; now I see you young and full of 
hope and prospect — nv,w that I think of all that may result to 
you in the good fortune of such a disclosure, I shudder at any 
delay, and tremble lest I should not assure to one as worthy as 
yourself the possession of so vast an amount of hidden treasure.” 
Edmond turned away his head with a sigh. 

“You persist in your incredulity, Edmond,” continued Faria. 
“ My words have not convinced 'mu. I see you require proof/* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


6l 


Well, then, read this paper, which I have never shown to any 
one.” 

“To-morrow, my dear friend,” said Edmond, desirous of not 
yielding to the old man’s madness. “ I thought it was under- 
stood that we should not talk of that until to-morrow.” “ Then 

we will not talk of it until to-morrow ; but read this paper to« 
day.” 

“Let us not irritate him,” thought Edmond, and taking the 
paper, of which part was wanting, having been burnt, no doubt, 
by some accident, he read — 

this treasure’s existence, amount 
millions of Roman crowns ; it wi 
eth rock starting in a straight li 
caves are two openings ; the tre 
inmost — which treasure I leave a 
25th April, 1498. 

“ Why,” said Dantes, " I see nothing but broken lines and un- 
connected words, illegible by fire.” 

“ Yes, to you, my friend, who read them for the first time ; but 
not for me, who have grown pale over them by many nights’ 
study, and have reconstructed every phrase, completed every 
thought.” 

“ And do you believe you have discovered the concealed 
sense ? ” 

“ I am sure I have, and you shall judge for yourself ; but first 
listen to the history of this paper.” 

&lt;• Silence ! ” exclaimed Dantes. “ Steps approach — I go — 
adieu.” 

And Dantes, happy to escape the story and explanation which 
could not fail to confirm to him his friend’s malady, glided like a 
snake along the narrow passage ; whilst Faria, restored by his 
alarm to activity, pushed with his foot the stone into its place, and 
covered it with a mat in order the more effectually to avoid discov- 
ery. 

It was the governor, who, hearing of Faria’s accident from the 
jailer, had come in person to see him. 

During this time, Edmond, seated on his bed with his head in 
his hands, tried to collect his scattered thoughts. All was so ra- 
tional, grand, and logical, with Faria, since he had known him, 
that he could not understand how so much wisdom on all points 
could be allied to madness in any one. Was Faria deceived as to 
his treasure, or was all the world deceived as to Faria ? 

Dantes remained in his cell all day, not daring to return to his 
friend, thinking thus to defer the moment when he should acquire 
the certainty that the priest was mad — such a conviction would be 
so terrible ! 


62 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


But, toward the evening after the usual visitation, Faria, not see- 
ing the young man appear, tried to move, and get over the distance 
which separated them. Edmond shuddered when he heard the 
painful efforts which the old man made to J_rag himself along ; his 
leg was inert, and he could no longer make use of one arm. Ed- 
mond was compelled to draw him toward himself, for otherwise he 
could not enter by the small aperture which led to Dantes’ cham- 
ber. 

“ Here I am, pursuing you remorselessly,” he said, with a benig- 
nant smile. “ You thought to escape my munificence, but it is in 
vain. Listen to me.” 

Edmond saw there was no escape, and placing the old man on 
his bed, he seated himself on the stool beside him. 

“ You know,” said the abbe, “ that I was the secretary and inti- 
mate friend of Cardinal Spada, the last of the princes of that name. 
I owe to this worthy lord all the happiness I ever knew. He was 
not rich, although the wealth of his family had passed into a prov- 
erb, and I heard the phrase very often, ‘ Rich as a Spada.’ But 
he, like public rumor, lived on this reputation for wealth. His 
palace was my paradise. I instructed his nephews, who are dead ; 
and when he was alone in the world, I returned to him, by an ab- 
solute devotion to his will, all he had done for me during ten years. 
The house of the cardinal had no secrets for me. I had often seen 
my noble patron annotating ancient volumes, and eagerly search- 
ing amongst dusty family manuscripts. One day when I was re- 
proaching him for his unavailing searches, and the prostration that 
followed them, he looked at me, and, smiling bitterly, opened a 
volume of the History of the City of Rome. There, in the twen- 
tieth chapter of the Life of Pope Alexander VI., were the following 
lines, which I can never forget : — 

“ ' The great wars of la Romagna had ended ; Caesar Borgia, 
who had completed his conquest, had need of money to purchase 
all Italy. The pope had also need of money to conclude with 
Louis, the twelfth king of France, formidable still in spite of his 
recent reverses ; and it was necessary, therefore, to have recourse 
to some profitable speculation, which was a matter of great diffi- 
culty in the impoverished condition of poor exhausted Italy. His 
holiness had an idea. He determined to make two cardinals.” 

“ The pope and Caesar Borgia first found the two future cardin- 
als ; they were Rospigliosi, who held four of the highest dignities 
of the holy seat ; and Spada, one of the noblest and richest of 
the Roman nobility ; both felt the high honor of such a favor 
from the pope. They were ambitious ; and, Caesar Borgia soon 
found purchasers for their appointments. The result was, that 
Rospigliosi and Spada paid for being cardinals, and eight other 
persons paid for the offices the cardinals held before their ele- 
vation, and thus eight hundred thousand crowns entered into the 
coffers ©f the speculators* 


THE COUNT OE MONTE CRTS TO. 


63 

"It is time now to proceed to the last part of the speculation. 
The pope having almost smothered Rospigliosi and Spada with 
caresses, having bestowed upon them the insignia of cardinal, 
and induced them to realize their fortunes, and settle at Rome, 
he and Caesar invited the two cardinals to dinner. 

“ The table was laid in a vineyard belonging to the pope, neat 
San Pietro, outside the limits, a charming retreat which the cardi- 
nals knew very well by report. Rospigliosi, quite giddy with his 
dignity, prepared his appetite and assumed his best looks. Spada, 
a prudent man, and greatly attached to his only nephew, a 
young captain of highest promise, took paper and pen and made 
his will. He then sent to his nephew to await him in the vh 
cinity of the vineyard : but it appeared the servant did not find 
him. 

“ Spada set out about two o’clock to Saint-Peter’s. The pope 
awaited him. The first figure that struck the eyes of Spada was 
his nephew, in full costume, and Caesar Borgia paying him most 
marked attentions. Spada turned pale, as Caesar looked at him 
with an ironical air, which proved that he had anticipated all, 
and that the snare was well spread. They began dinner, and 
Spada was only able to inquire of his nephew if he had re- 
ceived his message. The nephew replied no ; perfectly compre- 
hending the meaning of the question. It was too late, for he 
had already drunk a glass of excellent wine, placed for him ex- 
pressly by the papal butler. Spada at the same moment saw 
another bottle approach him, which he was pressed to taste. 
An hour afterwards a physician declared they were both poi- 
soned through eating mushrooms. Spada died on the threshold 
of the vineyard ; the nephew expired at his own door, making 
signs which his wife could not comprehend. 

“ Then Caesar and the pope hastened to lay hands on the prop- 
erty, under pretense of seeking for the papers of the dead man. 
But the inheritance consisted in this only, a scrap of paper on 
which Spada had written : — * I bequeath to my beloved nephew 
my coffers, my books, amongst other, my breviary with the gold 
clasps, which I beg he will preserve in remembrance of his afv 
fectionate uncle.’ 

" The heirs sought everywhere, admired the breviary, laid hand*; 
on the furniture, and were greatly astonished that Spada, the rich 
man, was really the most miserable of uncles — no treasures — unless 
of science, composed in the library and laboratories. This waa 
all : Caesar and his father searched, examined, scrutinized, but 
totsnd nothing, or at least very little ; not exceeding a few thou- 
sand crowns in plate, and about the same in ready money , 
but the nephew had time to say to his wife before he had ex- 
pired : — * Look well among my uncle’s papers ; there is a will.’ 

“ They sought even more thoroughly than the august heirs had 
done, but it was fruitless. Months and years rolled on. Alexander 


6 4 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRlSTO. 


VI. died poisoned. Caesar, poisoned at the same time, escaped 
after sloughing off his skin like a snake, and assumed a new 
cuticle, on which the poison left spots, like those we see on a 
tiger; then, compelled to quit Rome, he went and was killed 
l himself in a night skirmish, scarcely noticed in history. After 
» the pope’s death and his son’s exile, h was supposed the Spada 
* family would again make the splendid figure they had before the 
cardinal’s time ; but this was not the case. The Spadas re* 
mained in doubtful ease, a mystery hung over this dark affair, 
and the public rumor was, that Caesar, a better politician than 
his father, had carried off from the pope the fortune of the two 
cardinals. I say the two, because Cardinal Rospigliosi, who had 
not taken any precaution, was completely despoiled. 

“ Up to this time,” said Faria, interrupting the thread of his nar- 
rative, “ this seems to you very ridiculous, no doubt, eh ? ” 

“ Oh, my friend,” cried Dantes, “ oil the contrary, it seems as 
:f I were reading a most interesting narrative ; go on, I pray of 
you.” 

“ The family began to feel accustomed to this obscurity. Years 
rolled on, and amongst the descendants some were soldiers, 
others diplomatists ; churchmen, bankers ; some grew rich, and 
some were ruined. I come now to the last of the family, whose 
secretary 1 was — Count Spada. I had often heard him com- 
plain of the disproportion of his rank with his fortune ; and I 
advised him to sink all he had in an annuity. He did so, and 
thus doubled his income. The celebrated breviary remained in 
the family, and was in his possession. It had been handed down 
from father to son ; for the singular clause of the only will that had 
been found, had rendered it a relic, preserved in the family with 
superstitious veneration. It was an illuminated book, with beauti- 
ful Gothic characters, and so weighty with gold ornaments, that a 
servant always carried it before the cardinal on days of great sol- 
emnity. 

“At the sight of papers of all sorts, — titles, contracts, parch- 
ments, which were kept in the archives of the family, ail descend- 
ing from the poisoned cardinal, I, like twenty servitors, stewards, 
secretaries before me, in my turn examined the immense bundles 
of documents ; but in spite of the most accurate researches, I 
found— nothing. Yet I had read, I had even written a history 
of the Borgia family, for the sole purpose of assuring myself 
whether any increase of fortune had occurred to them on the 
death of the Cardinal Caesar Spada ; but could only trace the 
acquisition of the property of the Cardinal Rospigliosi, his com- 
panion in misfortune. 

“ I was then almost assured that the inheritance had neither 
profited the Borgias nor the family, but had remained unpossessed 
like the treasures of the Arabian Nights, which slept in the bosom 
of the earth under the eyes of a genie. I searched, ransacked, 


THE COUNT OF MO ATE CPUS TO. 


65 


counted, calculated a thousand and a thousand times the income 
and expenditure of the family for three hundred years. It was 
useless. I remained in my ignorance, and Spada in his poverty. 
My patron died. He had reserved from his annuity his family 
papers, his library, composed of five thousand volumes, and his 
famous breviary. All these he bequeathed to me, with a thousand 
Roman crowns, which he had in ready money , on condition that 
I would have said anniversary masses for the repose of his soui, 
and that I would draw up a geneological tree and history of his 
house. All this I did scrupulously. 

“ In 1807, a month before I was arrested, and fifteen days after 
the death of Spada, on the 25th of December (you will see pres- 
ently how the date became fixed in my memory), I was reading, 
for the thousandth time, the papers I was arranging, for the palace 
was sold to a stranger, and I was going to leave Rome and settle 
at Florence, intending to take with me twelve thousand francs I 
possessed, my library, and famous breviary, when, tired with my 
constant iabor at the same thing, and overcome by a heavy din- 
ner I had eaten, my head dropped on my hands, and 1 lell asleep 
about three o’clock in the afternoon. I awoke as the clock was 
striking six. I raised my head ; all was in darkness. I rang for a 
light, but as no one came, I determined to find one for myself. It 
was indeed the habit of a philosopher which I should soon be un- 
der the necessity of adopting. I took a wax-candle in one hand, 
and with the other groped about for a piece of paper (my match- 
box being empty), with which I proposed to produce a light from 
the small flame still playing on the embers. Fearing, however, to 
make use of any valuable piece of paper, I hesitated for a mo- 
ment, then recollected that I had seen in the famous breviary, 
which was on the table beside me, a slip of old paper quite yellow 
with age, which had served as a marker for centuries, kept there 
by the request of the heirs. I felt for it, found it, twisted it up to- 
gether, and putting it into the expiring flame, set light to it. 

“ But beneath my fingers, as if by magic, in proportion as the 
fire ascended, I saw yellowish characters appear on the paper. I 
grasped it in my hand, put out the flame as quickly as I could, 
lighted my taper in the fire itself, and opened the crumpled paper 
with inexpressible emotion, recognizing, when I had done so, that 
these characters had been traced in mysterious and sympathetic 
ink, only appearing when exposed to the fire : nearly one-third of 
the paper had been consumed by the flame. It was that paper 
you read this morning ; read it again, Dantes, and then I 
will complete for you the incomplete words and unconnected 
sense.” 

Faria, with an air of triumph, offered the paper to Dantes, who 
this time read the following words, traced with an ink of color# 
which most nearly resembled rust ; 

5 


66 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO, 


“This day, the 25th April, 1498, invit 
Pope Alessandro VI., and fearing tha 
paid for the cardinal’s hat, he wi 
me the fate of Cardinals Caprara an 
I declare to my exclusive heir, m 
buried in a spot which he knows fr 
er words, in the caves of Mont 
bullion and coin and jewels, pre 
this treasure’s existence, amount 
millions of Roman crowns ; it wi 
eth rock starting in a straight li 
caves are two openings ; the tre 
inmost — which treasure I leave a 

25th April, 1498. 

“And now,” said the abbe, “ read this other paper and h« 
presented to Dantes a second leaf with fragments of lines on it, 
which Edmond read as follows : 

ed to dinner by his Holiness the 
t, not satisfied with my having 
slies to be my heir and intends for 
d Bentivoglio, who died of poison, 
y nephew Guido Spada, that I have 
om having visited it with me, in oth- 
e Cristo Islet, all my property in gold 
cious stones, and gems ; I alone know of 
ing to the value of upwards of two 
11 be found on overturing the twenti- 
ne from the East Creek. In these 
asure is in the farthest corner of the 
nd give unto him as my sole heir. 

CESARO f SPADA.” 

“And now,” he said, when he saw Dantes had read the last 
line, “ put the two fragments together, and judge for yourself.” 
Dantes obeyed, and the joined pieces gave the following : 

“ This day, the 25th April, 1498, invited to dinner by his HolD 
ness the Pope Alessandro VI., and fearing that, not satisfied with 
my having paid for the cardinal’s hat, he wdshes to be my heir and 
intends for me the fate of Cardinals Caprara and Bentivoglio, who 
died of poison, I declare to my exclusive heir, my nephew Guido 
Spada, that I have buried in a spot which he knows from having 
visited it with me, in other words, in the caves of Monte Cristo 
Islet, all my property in gold bullion and coin and jewels, pre- 
cious stones, and gems ; I alone know of this treasure’s existence, 
amounting to the value of upwards of two millions of Roman 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRIS TO. 


67 


crowns ; it will be found on overturning the twentieth rock start- 
ing in a straight line from the East Creek. In these caves are two 
openings : the treasure is in the farthest corner of the inmost — 
which treasure I leave and give unto him as my sole heir. 

25th April, 1498. CESARO f SPADA." 

44 Well, do you comprehend now ? ” inquired Faria. 

44 It is the declaration of Cardinal Spada, and the will so long 
sought for,” replied Edmond, still incredulous. 

44 Of course ; what else could it be ? " “ And who completed 

it as it now is ? ” 

41 1 did. Aided by the remaining fragment, I guessed the rest ; 
measuring the length of the lines by those of the paper, and 
divining the hidden meaning by means of what was in part 
revealed, as we are guided in a cavern by the small ray of light 
above us.” 

44 And what did you do when you arrived at this conclusion ?” 

44 1 resolved to set out, and did set out that very instant, carry*, 
ing with me the beginning of my great work of forming Italy into 
one kingdom ; but for some time the infernal police (who at this 
period, quite contrary to what Napoleon desired so soon as he had 
a son born to him, wished for a petition of provinces) had their 
eyes on me ; and my hasty departure, the cause of which they 
were unable to guess, having aroused their suspicions, I was ar- 
rested at the very moment I was leaving Piombino. 

44 Now,” continued Faria, addressing Dantes with an almost 
paternal expression, 44 now, my dear fellow, you know as much as 
I do myself. If we ever escape together, half this treasure 
is yours ; if I die here, and you escape alone, the whole belongs 
to you.” 

44 But,” inquired Dantes, hesitating, “has this treasure no more 
legitimate possessor in this world than ourselves?” 

44 No, no, be easy on that score ; the family is extinct.” 

44 This treasure belongs to you, my dear friend,” replied 
Dantes, 44 and to you only. I have no right to it. I am no relation 
of yours. M 

44 You are my son, Dantes,” exclaimed the old man. 44 You are 
the child of my captivity. My profession condemns me to 
celibacy. God has sent you to me to console, at one and the 
same time, the man who could not be a father and the prisoner 
who could not get free.” And Faria extended the arm of which 
alone the use remained to him to the young man, who threw him* 
«elf on his neck and wept bitterly. 


63 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


CHAPTER X. 

THE FATAL ATTACK. 

Now that this treasure, which had so long been the object of 
the abbe’s meditations, could insure the future happiness of him 
whom Faria really loved as a son, it had doubled its value in his 
eyes, and every day he expatiated on the amount, explaining to 
Dant&amp;s all the good which, with fifteen millions of francs, a man 
could do in these days to his friends ; and then Dantes, counte- 
nance became gloomy, for the oath of vengeance he had taken re- 
curred to his memory, and he reflected how much ill, in these 
times, a man with millions could do to his enemies. 

The abbe did not know the isle of Monte-Cristo ; but Dantes 
knew it, and had often passed it, situated twenty-five miles from 
Pianosa, between Corsica and Elba, and had once touched at it. 
This island was, always had been, and still is, completely de- 
serted. It is a rock of almost conical form, which seems as 
though produced by some volcanic effort from the depth to the 
surface of the ocean. Dantes traced a chart of the island to 
Faria, and Faria gave Dantes advice as to the means he should 
employ to recover the treasure. But Dantes was far from being as 
enthusiastic and confident as the old man. It was past a question 
now that Faria was not a lunatic, and the way in which he had 
achieved the discovery, which had given rise to the suspicion of 
his madness, increased his admiration of him ; but at the same 
time he could not believe that that deposit, supposing it had ever 
existed, still existed ; and though he considered the treasure as by 
no means chimerical, he yet believed it was no longer there. 

Thus, if not actually happy, yet the days these two unfortunates 
passed together went quickly. Faria, who for so long a time had 
kept silence as to the treasure, now perpetually talked of it. 

Whole hours sometimes passed whilst F aria was giving instruc- 
tions to Dant&amp;s — instructions which were to serve him when he 
was at liberty. Then, once free, from the day and hour and 
moment when he was so, he could have but one only thought, 
which was, to gain Monte-Cristo by some means, and remain 
there alone under some pretext which would give no suspicions * 3 
and once there, to endeavor to find the wonderful caverns, and 
search in the appointed spot. 

All went on as if in existences in which mistortune has deranged 
nothing, and which glide on mechanically and tranquilly beneath 
the eye of Providence. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 69 

One night Edmond awoke suddenly, believing he heard some 
one calling him. 

He moved his bed, drew up the stone, rushed into the passage, 
and reached the opposite extremity ; the secret entrance was open. 
By the light of the wretched and wavering lamp, of which we 
have spoken, Dantes saw the old man, pale, but yet erect, cling- 
ing to the bedstead. His features were writhing with those hor- 
rible symptoms which he already knew, and which had so seriously 
alarmed him when he saw them for the first time. 

“ Alas! my dear friend,” said Faria in a resigned tone, “ you 
understand, do you not ; and I need not attempt to explain to 
you ? 

“There is not a hope, but no matter, God wills it that 
man whom he has created, and in whose heart He has so pro- 
foundly rooted the love of life, should do all in his power to pre- 
serve that existence, which, however painful it may be, is yet 
alway so dear.” 

“ Oh ! yes, yes ! ” exclaimed Dantes, “and I tell you you shall 
yet be saved ! ” 

“ Do as you did before, only do not wait so long. All the 
springs of life are now exhausted in me, and death,” he continued, 
looking at his paralyzed arm and leg, “ has but half its work to do. 
If, after having made me swallow twelve drops instead of ten, you 
see that I do not recpver, then pour the rest down my throat. 
Now lift me on my bed, for I can no longer support myself.” 

Edmond took the old man in his arms, and laid him on the 
bed. 

“ And now my dear old friend, " said Faria, “ sole consolation 
of my wretched existence, — I bless thee ! ” The young man cast 
himself on his knees, leaning his head against the old man’s bed. 

“ Listen, now, to what I say in this my dying moment. The treas- 
ure of the Spadas exists. God grants me that I see it in the depths 
of the inner cavern. My eyes pierce the inmost recesses of the 
earth, and are dazzled at the sight of so much riches. If you do 
escape, remember that the poor priest, whom all the world 
called mad, was not so. Hasten to Monte-Cristo — avail yourself 
of the fortune — for you have indeed suffered long enough. 
Your hand, Dantes f /vdieu ! — adieu!” And raising himself 
by a final effort, in which he summoned all his faculties, he said— 
“ Monte-Cristo ! forget not Monte-Cristo ! ” And he fell back in 
his bed. The crisis was terrible, his writhing limbs, his swollen 
eyelids, a foam of blood and froth in his lips; a frame quite 
rigid, was soon extended on this bed of agony, in place of the in* 
tellectual being there but so lately. 

Dantes took the lamp, placed it on a projecting stone above the 
bed, whence its tremulous light fell with strange and fantastic ray 
on this discomposed countenance and this inert and stiffened 


7 o 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


body. With fixed eyes he awaited boldly the moment for adminis* 
tering the hoped-for restorative. 

When we believed the instant had arrived, he took the knife, 
unclosed the teeth, which offered less resistance than before 
counted one after the other twelve drops, and watched , the phiai 
contained, perhaps, twice as much more. He waited ten minutes, 
a quarter of an hour, half an hour, nothing moved. Trembling, 
his hair erect, his brow bathed with perspiration he counted the 
seconds by the beatings of his heart. Then he thought it was 
time to make the last trial, and he put the phial to the violet lips of 
Faria, and without having occasion to force open his jaws, which 
had remained extended, he poured the whole of the liquid down 
his throat. 

The draught produced a galvanic effect, a violent trembling per- 
vaded the old man’s limbs, his eyes opened until it was fearful to 
gaze upon them, he heaved a sigh which resembled a shriek, and 
then all this vibrating frame returned gradually to its state of im- 
mobility, only the eyes remained open. 

Half an hour, an hour, an hour and a half elapsed, and dur- 
ing this time of anguish, Dante still doubted ; but as soon as the 
daylight gained, he saw that he was alone with a corpse. 

It was time, for the jailer was coming. On this occasion he be- 
gan his rounds at Dantes’ cell, and on leaving him he went on to 
Faria’s dungeon, where he was taking breakfast and some linen. 
Nothing betokened that the man knew anything of what had oc- 
curred. He went on his way. 

Dantes was then seized with an indescribable desire to know 
what was going on in the dungeon of his unfortunate friend. He 
therefore returned by the subterraneous gallery, and arrived in 
time to hear the exclamations of the turnkey, who called out for 
help. Others came, and then was heard the regular tramp of sol- 
diers even when not on duty — behind them came the governor. 

Edmond heard the noise of the bed in which they were moving 
the corpse, heard the voice of the governor, who desired them to 
throw water on the face ; and seeing that, in spite of this applica- 
tion, the prisoner did not recover, sent for the doctor. The gov- 
ernor then went out, and some words of pity fell on Dantes listen- 
ing ears, mingled with brutal laughter. 

Edmond did not lose a word, but comprehended very little of 
what was said. The voices soon ceased, and it seemed to him as 
if the persons had all left the cell. Still he dared not to enter, as 
they might have left some keeper to watch the dead. He re- 
mained, therefore, mute and motionless, restraining even his res- 
piration. At the end of an hour, he heard a faint noise, which in- 
creased. It was the governor who returned, followed by the doc- 
tor and other attendants. There was a moment’s silence, — it was 
evident that the doctor was examining the dead body. The in* 
quiries soon commenced. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


71 


The doctor analyzed the symptoms of the malady under which 
the prisoner had sunk, and declared K e was dead. " He is really 
dead,” said the doctor; "this burn in the heel is decisive. The 
poor fool is cured of his folly, and delivered from his captivity.” 

" Wasn’t his name Faria?” inquired one of the officers who 
accompanied the governor. 

" Yes, sir ; and, as he said, it was an ancient name. He was, 
too, very learned, and rational enough on all points which did not 
relate to his treasure ; but on that, indeed, he was obstinate.” 

"It is the malady we call monomania,” said the doctor. 

"You had never anything to complain of?” said the governor 
to the jailer who had charge of the abbe. 

"Never, sir,” replied the jailer, "never; on the contrary, he 
sometimes amused me very much by telling me stories. One day, 
too, when my wife was ill, he gave me a prescription which cured 
her.” 

" Ah, ah ! ” said the doctor, " I was ignorant that I had a com- 
petitor ; but I hope, M. Governor, that you will show him all 
proper respect in consequence.” 

" Yes, yes, make your mind easy ; he shall be decently interred 
in the newest sack we can find. Will that satisfy you ? ” 

" Must we do this last formality in your presence, sir ? ” inquired 
a turnkey. 

" Certainly. But make haste — I cannot stay here all day.” 
"This evening,” said the governor, when the task was ended. 

"At what o’clock? ” inquired a turnkey. "Why, about ten 

or eleven o’clock.” 

" Shall we watch by the corpse? ” " Of what use would it 

be? Lock the dungeon as if he were alive — that is all.” Then 
the steps retreated, and the voices died away in the distance ; 
the noise of the door, with its creaking hinges and bolts, ceased, 
and a silence duller than any solitude ensued — the silence ol 
death, which pervaded all, and struck its icy chill through the 
young man’s whole frame. Then he raised the flag-stone cau- 
tiously with his head, and looked carefully round the chamber. Il 
was empty ; and Dantes, quitting the passage, entered it. 


CHAPTER XI. 

THE PRISON CEMETERY. 

On the bed, at full length, and faintly lighted by the pale ray 
that penetrated the window, was visible a sack of coarse cloth, 
under the large folds of which were stretched a long and stiffened 
form; it was Faria’s last winding-sheet — a winding-sheet which, 
as the turnkey said, cost so little. All, then, was oompleted* 


72 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


The idea of suicide, driven away by his friend, and forgotten in 
his presence whilst living, arose like a phantom before him in 
presence of his dead body. 

“ If I could die,** he said, “ I should go where he goes, and 
should assuredly find him again. No, I desire to live ; I desire 
to struggle to the very last ; I wish to reconquer the happiness 
of which I have been deprived. Before I die I must not forget 
that I have my executioners to punish, and perhaps too, who 
knows, some friends to reward. Yet they will forget me here, and 
I shall die in my dungeon like Faria.” As he said this, he re« 
mained motionless, his eyes fixed like a man struck with a sud« 
dea idea, but whom this idea fills with amazement. Suddenly , 
he rose, lifted his hand to his brow as if his brain were giddy, ( 
paced twice or thrice round his chamber, and then paused ab- 
ruptly at the bed. 

“Ah ! ” he muttered, “ who inspires me with this thought? Is 
that thou, gracious God? Since none but the dead pass freely 
from this dungeon, let me assume the place of the dead!” 
Without giving himself time to re-consider his decision, and, in^ 
deed, that he might not allow his thoughts to be distracted from 
his desperate resolution, he bent over the appalling sack, opened 
it with the knife which Faria had made, drew the corpse from 
the sack, and transported it along the gallery to his own chamber, 
laid it on his couch, passed round its head the rag he wore at night 
round his own, covered it with his counterpane, once again kissed 
the ice-cold brow, and tried vainly to close the resisting eyes, 
which glared horribly ; turned the head toward the wall, so that 
the jailer might, when he brought his evening meal, believe that 
he was asleep, as was his frequent custom ; returned along the 
gallery, threw the bed against the wall, returned to the other cell, 
took from the hiding-place the needle and thread, flung off his 
rags, that they might feel naked flesh only beneath the coarse 
sackcloth, and getting inside the sack, placed himself in the post- 
ure in which the dead body had been laid, and sewed up the 
mouth of the sack withinside. 

The beating of his heart might have been heard, if by any 
mischance the keepers had entered at that moment. Dantes might 
have waited until the evening visit was over, but he was afraid the 
governor might change his resolution, and order the dead body to 
be removed earlier. In that case his last hope would have been 
destroyed. Now his project was settled under any circumstances, 
and he hoped thus to carry it into effect. If during the time he 
was being conveyed the grave-diggers should discover that they 
were conveying a live instead of a dead body, Dantes did not in- 
tend to give them time to recognize him, but with a suddeir cut of 
the knife, he meant to open the sack from top to bottom, and, 
profiting by their alarm, escape ; if they tried to catch him, he 
would use his knife. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


7 3 


If they conducted him to the cemetery and laid him in the grave, 
he would allow himself to be covered with earth, and then, as it 
was night, the grave-diggers could scarcely have turned their 
backs, ere he would have worked his way through the soft soil and 
escape, hoping that the weight would not be too heavy for him to 
support. If he was deceived in this, and the earth proved too 
heavy, he would be stifled, and then, so much the better, all would 
be over. Dantes had not eaten since the previous evening, but he 
had not thought of hunger or thirst, nor did he now think of it. 
,His position was too precarious to allow him even time to reflect 
on any thought but one. 

The first risk that Dantes ran was, that the warden, when he 
brought him his supper at seven o’clock, might preceive the sub- 
stitution he had effected ; fortunately, twenty times at least, from 
misanthropy or fatigue, Dantes had received his jailer in bed, and 
then the man placed his bread and soup on the table, and went 
away without saying a word. This time the jailer might not be 
silent as usual, but speak to Dantes, and seeing that he received 
no reply, go to the bed, and thus discover all. 

When seven o’clock came, Dantes’ agony really commenced. 
His hand placed upon his heart was unable to press its throbbings, 
whilst, with the other, he wiped the perspiration from his temples. 
From time to time 6hudderings ran through his whole frame, and 
collapsed his heart as if it were frozen. Then he thought he was 
going to die. Yet the hours passed on without any stir, and Dantes 
felt he had escaped this first danger : it was a good augury. At 
length, about the hour the governor had appointed, footsteps were 
heard on the stairs. Edmond felt that the moment had arrived, 
and summoning up all his courage, held his breath, happy if at the 
same time he could have repressed in like manner the hasty pulsa- 
tion of his arteries. They stopped at the door — there were two 
steps, and Dantes guessed it was the two grave-diggers who came 
to seek him — this idea was soon converted into certainty, when he 
heard the noise they made in putting down the hand-bier. The 
door opened, and a dim light reached Dantes’ eyes through the 
coarse sack that covered him ; he saw two shadows approach his 
bed, a third remaining at the door with a torch in his hand. Each 
of these two men, approaching the ends of the bed, took the sack 
by its extremities. 

" He’s heavy though for a thin old man,” said one, as he raised 
the head. 

41 They say every year adds half a pound to the weight of the 
bones,” said another, lifting the feet. 

“ Have you tied the knot ? ” inquired the first speaker. 

44 What would be the use of carrying so much more weight?’* 
was the reply ; 44 1 can do that when we get there.” 

44 Yes, you’re right,” replied the companion. 

44 What’s the knot for? ” thought Dant&amp;s. 


74 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


The deposited the supposed corpse on the bier. Edmoj^y • 
fened himself in order to play his part of a dead man, andthe^ffte 
party, lighted by the man with the torch, who went first, ascended 
the stairs. Suddenly he felt the fresh and sharp night air, and 
Dantes recognized the Mistral . It was a sudden sensation, at the 
same time replete with delight and agony. The bearers advanced 
twenty paces, then stopped, putting their litter down on the 
/ground. One of them went away, and Dantes heard his shoes on 
|the pavement. 

“ Where am I then?" he asked himself. 

“Really, he is by no means a light load!" said the other 
bearer, sitting on the edge of the hand-barrow. Dantes’ first im- 
pulse was to escape, but fortunately he did not attempt it. 

“ Light me, you sir," said the other bearer, “ or I shall not find 
what I am looking for." The man with the torch complied, 
although not asked in the most polite terms. 

“ What can he be looking for? " thought Edmond. “The spade, 
perhaps." An exclamation of satisfaction indicated that the grave- 
digger had found the object of his search. “ Here it is at last," 
he said, “ not without some trouble though." 

“ Yes," was the answer, “ but it has lost nothing by waiting." 

As he said this, the man came towards Edmond, who heard a 
heavy and sounding substance laid down beside him, and at the 
same moment a cord was fastened round his feet with sudden and 
painful violence. 

“Well, have you tied the knot?" inquired the grave-digger, 
who was looking on. “ Yes, and pretty tight too, I can tell you," 
was the answer. 

“ Move on, then." And the bier was lifted once more, and 
they proceeded. 

They advanced fifty paces farther, and then stopped to open a 
door, then went forward again. The noise of the waves dashing 
against the rocks on which the castle is built, reached Dantes’ ear 
distinctly as they progressed. 

“ Bad weather ! " observed one of the bearers ; “ not a pleasant 
night for a dip in the sea." 

“Why, yes, the priest runs a chance of being baptised," said 
the other ; and then there was a burst of brutal laughter. Dant&amp;§ 
did not comprehend the jest, but his hair stood erect on his head. 

“ Well, here we are at last," said one of them ; “ a little far- 
ther — a little farther," said the other. “You know very well that 
the last was stopped on his way, dashed on the rocks, andthegov* 
ernor told us next day that we were careless fellows." 

They ascended five or six more steps, and then Dantes felt that 
they took him one by the head and the other by the heels, and 
swung him to and fro. “ One ! " said the grave-diggers, “ two l 
three, and away ! " And at the same instant Dantes felt himself 
flung into the air like a wounded bird falling, falling with a rapidif* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


75 


that made his blood curdle. Although drawn downwards by the 
same heavy weight which hastened his rapid descent, it seemed to 
him as if the time were a century. At last, with a terrific dash, he 
entered the ice-cold water, and as he did so he uttered a shrill cry, 
stifled in a moment by his immersion beneath the waves. 

Dantes had been flung into the sea, into whose depths he was 
dragged by a thirty-six pound ball tied to his feet. The sea is the 
cemetery of If Castle. 


CHAPTER XII. 

RESCUED. 

Dantes, although giddy and almost suffocated, had yet suffi- 
cient presence of mind to hold his breath ; and as his right hand 
(prepared as he was for every chance) held his knife open, he 
rapidly ripped up the sack, extricated his arm, and then his body ; 
but in spite of all his efforts to free himself from the bullet, he felt 
it dragging him down still lower. He then bent his body, and by 
a desperate effort severed the cord that bound his legs, at the 
moment he was suffocating. With a vigorous spring he rose to 
the surface of the sea, whilst the bullet bore^to its depths the sack 
that had so nearly become his shroud. 

Dantes merely paused to breathe, and then dived again, in order 
to avoid being seen. When he arose a second time, he was fifty 
paces from where he had first sunk. Behind him, blacker than 
the sea, blacker than the sky, rose, like a phantom, the giant of 
granite, whose projecting crags seemed like arms extended to seize 
their prey ; and on the highest rock was a torch that lighted two 
figures. He fancied these two forms were looking at the sea ; 
doubtless these strange undertakers had heard his cry. Dant&amp;s 
dived again, and remained a long time beneath the water. When 
he reappeared the light had disappeared. 

It was necessary to strike out to sea. 

Suddenly the sky seemed to him to become still darker and 
more dense, and compact clouds lowered towards him ; at the 
same time he felt a violent pain in his knee. His imagination told 
him a ball had struck him, and that in a moment he would hear 
the report ; but he heard nothing, Dantes put out his hand, and 
felt resistance ; he then extended his leg, and felt the land, and in 
an instant guessed the nature of the object he had taken for a 
cloud. 

Before him rose a mass of strangely-formed rocks, that resem- 
bled nothing so much as a vast fire petrified at the moment of its 
most fervent combustion. It was the isle of Tiboulen. 

An overhanging rock offered him a temporary shelter, and 


76 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


scarcely bad be availed himself of it when the tempest burst forth 
in all its fury, 

A flash of lightning, as if the whole of the heavens were opened, 
illumined the darkness. By its light, between the isle of Lemaire 
and Cape Croiselle, a half mile distant, Dantes saw, like a spectre, 
a fishing-boat driven rapidly on by the force of the winds and 
waves. A second after, he saw it again, approaching nearer. 
Dantes cried at the top of his voice to warn them of their danger, 
but the crew saw it themselves. At the same moment a violent 
crash was heard, and cries of distress. Perched on the summit of 
the rock, Dantes saw, by the lightning, the vessel in pieces ; and 
amongst the fragments were visible the agonized features of the 
unhappy sailors. Then all became dark again. 

Dantes ran down the rocks at the risk of being himself dashed 
to pieces ; he listened, he strove to examine, but he heard and saw 
nothing — all human cries hgd ceased, and the tempest alone con- 
tinued to rage. By degrees the wind abated, vast grey clouds 
rolled toward the west, and the blue firmament appeared studded 
with bright stars. Soon a red streak became visible in the horizon, 
the waves whitened, a light played over them, and gilded their 
foaming crests with gold. It was day. 

Dantes stood silent and motionless before this vast spectacle, 
for since his captivity he had forgotten it. He turned towards the 
fortress, and looked both at the sea and the land. The gloomy 
building rose from the bosom of the ocean with that imposing 
majesty of inanimate objects which seems to watch and to com- 
mand. It was about five o’clock. The sea continued to grow 
calmer. 

He saw appear, at the extremity of the isle of Poi 4 ;^gue, like a 
bird skimming over the sea, a small bark, that the .eye of a sailor 
alone could recognize as a Genoese tartane. She was coming out 
of Marseilles harbor, and was standing out to sea rapidly, her 
sharp prow cleaving through the waves. “ Oh ! ” cried Edmond, 
“ to think that in half an hour I could join her, did I not fear be- 
ing questioned, detected, and conveyed back to Marseilles ! What 
can I do? What story can I invent? Under pretext of trading 
along the coast, these men, who are in reality smugglers, will pre- 
fer selling me to doing a good action. I must wait. But I cannot 
— I am starving. In a few hours my strength will be utterly ex- 
hausted : besides, perhaps I have not been missed at the fortress. 
I can pass as one of the sailors wrecked last night. This story 
will pass current, for there is no one left to contradict me.” 

As he spoke, Dantes looked towards the spot where the fishing- 
vessel had been wrecked, and started. The red cap of one of the 
sailors hung to a point of the rock, and some beams that had 
formed part of the vessels’s keel, floated at the foot of the crags. 
In an instant Dantes’ plan was formed. He swam to the cap, 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 77 

placed it on his head, seized one of the beams, and struck out so 
as to cross the line the vessel was taking. 

11 1 am saved! ” murmured he. And this conviction restored his 
strength. 

He soon perceived the vessel, which, having the wind right 
ahead, was tacking between If Castle and the tower of Planier. 
For an instant he feared lest the bark, instead of keeping in shore, 
should stand out to sea ; but he soon saw by her manoeuvres that 
she wished to pass, like most vessels bound for Italy, between the 
islands of Jaros and Calaseraigne. However, the vessel and the 
swimmer insensibly neared one another, and in one of its tacks the 
bark approached within a quarter of a mile of him. He rose on 
the waves, making signs of distress ; but no one on board per- 
ceived him, and the vessel stood on another tack. Dantes would 
have cried out, but he reflected that the wind would drown his 
voice. 

It was then he rejoiced at his precaution in taking the beam, for 
w'thout it he would have been unable, perhaps, to reach the vessel 
— certainly to return to shore, sno^ld he be unsuccessful in at- 
tracting attention. 

Dantes, although almost sure as to what course the bark would 
take, had yet watched it anxiously until it tacked and stood to- 
ward him. Then he advanced ; but before they had met, the 
vessel again changed her direction. By a violent effort he rose 
half out of the water, waving his cap and uttering a loud hail. 
This time he was both seen and heard, and the tartane instantly 
steered toward him. At the same time, he saw thev were about 
to lower the boat. 

An instant after, the boat, rowed by two men, advanced rapidly 
toward him. Dantes abandoned the beam, which he thought 
now useless, and swam vigorously to meet them. But he had 
reckoned too much upon his strength, and then he felt how serv- 
iceable the beam had been to him. His arms grew stiff, his legs 
had lost their flexibility, and he was almost breathless. 

He uttered a second cry. The two sailors redoubled their efforts, 
and one of them cried in Italian, “ Courage ! ” 

The word reached his ear as a wave which he no longer had 
the strength to surmount passed over his head. He rose again to 
the surface, supporting himself by one of those desperate efforts a 
drowning man makes, uttered a third cry, and felt himself sink 
again, as if the fatal bullet were again tied to his feet. The water 
passed over his head, and the sky seemed livid. A violent effort 
again brought him to the surface. He felt as if something seized 
him by the hair, but he saw and heard nothing. He had fainted. 

When he opened his eyes, Dantes found himself on the deck of 
the tartane. 

41 Who aie you ? ” said the pilot, in bad French. 

14 1 am,.' replied Dantes, in bad Italian, “ a Maltese sailor* We 


;8 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


were Coming from Syracuse laden with grain. The storm of last 
night overtook us at Cape Morgion, and we were wrecked on these 
rocks, to which I had the good luck to cling while our captain and 
the rest were all lost. I saw your craft, and fearful of being left 
to perish on the desolate island, I swam off on a fragment of the 
vessel in order to try and gain your bark. You have saved my 
life, and I thank you,” continued Dantes. 44 I was lost when one 
of your sailors caught hold of my hair.” 

41 It was I,” said a sailor of a frank appearance ; “and it was 
time, for you were sinking.” 

“Yes,” returned Dantes, holding out his hand, 44 1 thank you 
again.” 

41 1 almost hesitated though,” replied the sailor ; 44 you looked 
more like a brigand than an honest man, with your beard six 
inches and your hair a foot long.” Dantes recollected that his 
hair and beard had not been cut all the time he was in jail. 

44 Yes,” said he, 44 I made a vow to our Lady of the Grotto, in a 
moment of danger, not to cut my hair or beard for ten years ; but 
to-day the vow expires.” 

44 Now what are we to do with you? ” said the captain. 

44 Alas! anything you please. My captain is dead; I have 
barely escaped ; but I am a good sailor.” 

44 I say, captain,” said the sailor who had cried 44 Courage ! ” 
to Dantes, 44 if what he says is true, what hinders his staying with 
us ? ” 

44 If he says true,” said the captain, 44 we can agree very well, 
if you are reasonable.” 

44 Give me what you give the others, and all will be arranged,” 
returned Dantes. 

Jacopo dived into the hold and returned with what Edmond 
wanted. 

44 Now, then, do you wish for anything else ? ” said the patron. 

44 A piece of bread and another glass of the capital rum I tasted, 
for I have not eaten or drunk for a long time.” He had not 
tasted food for forty hours. • A piece of bread was brought, and 
Jacopo offered him the gourd. 

44 Larboard your helm,” cried the captain to the steersman. 
Dantes glanced to the same side as he lifted the gourd to his 
mouth ; but his hand stopped. 

44 Halloa ! what’s the matter at If Castle? ” said the captain. 

A small white cloud which had attracted Dantes attention, 
crowned the summit of the bastion. At the same moment the 
faint report of a gun was heard. The sailors looked at one an- 
other. 

44 What is this ? ” asked the captain. 

44 A prisoner has escaped from the Castle If ; and they are firing 
the alarm gun,” replied Dant£s« The captain glanced at him ; 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


79 


but he had lifted the rum to his lips, and was drinking with so 
much composure, that his suspicions, if he had any, died away. 

“ At any rate,” murmured he, “ if it be, so much the better, for 
I have made a rare acquisition.” Under pretense of being fa- 
tigued, Dantes asked to take the helm ; the steersman, enchanted 
to be relieved, looked at the captain, and the latter by a sign in- 
dicated that he might abandon it to his new messmate. Dantes 
could thus keep his eyes on Marseilles. 

“ What is the day of the month ? ” asked he of Jacopo, who sat 
down beside him. 

451 The 28th of February ! ” 

•* In what year? ” 

0 You have forgotten ? *' 

“ I have been so frightened last night, replied Dantes, smiling, 
that I have almost lost my memory. I ask you what year is it ? ” 
“The year 1829,” returned Jacopo. 

It was fourteen years day for day since Dantes’ arrest. He was 
nineteen when he entered If; thirty-three when he escaped. A 
sorrowful smile passed over his face ; he asked himself what had 
become of Mercedes, who must believe him dead. Then his eyes 
lighted up with hatred as he thought of the three men who had 
caused him so long and wretched a captivity. He renewed 
against Danglars, Fernand, and Villefort the oath of implacable 
vengeance he had made in his dungeon. This oath was no longer 
a vain menace ; for the fastest sailor in the Mediterranean would 
have been unable to overtake the little tartane, with every stitch 
of canvas set, flying before the wind to Leghorn. 


CHAPTER XIII. 

THE SMUCGLERS, 

DANTES had not been a day on board before he had an insight 
into the persons with whom he sailed. Dantes was on board a 
smuggling lugger. 

In the first instance the master had received Dantes on board 
with a certain degree of mistrust. When he saw the light smoke 
floating like a plume above the Castle and heard the distant ex- 
plosion, he was instantly struck with the idea that he had on 
board his vessel one for whom, like the goings in and comings out 
of kings, they accord salutes of cannons. This made him less urn 
easy, it must be owned, than if the new-comer had proved a cus- 
tom-house officer ; but this latter supposition also disappeared like 
the first, when he beheld the perfect tranquillity of his recruit. 

Edmond thus had the advantage of knowing what the owner 
was, without the owner knowing who he was ; and however the 


8o 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


old sailor arid Ms crew tried to ** pump " him, they extracted noth* 
ing more from him. 

It was thus, in this reciprocal position, that they reached Leg- 
horn. Here Edmond was to undergo another trial ; it was to see 
if he should recognize himself, never having beheld his own feat- 
ures for fourteen years. He had preserved a tolerably good re- 
membrance of what the youth had been, and was now to find 
what the man had become. His comrades believed that his vow 
was fulfilled, as he had twenty times touched at Leghorn before he 
remembered a barber in the Rue Saint-F erdinand ; he went there 
to have his beard and hair cut. 

When the operation was concluded, when Edmond felt his chin 
was completely smooth, and his hair reduced to its usual length, 
he requested a looking-glass in which he might see himself. He 
was now, as we have said, three-and-thirty years of age, and his 
fourteen years’ imprisonment had produced a great moral change 
in hi«s appearance. 

To the elegance of a nervous and slight form had succeeded the 
solidity of a rounded and muscular figure. As to his voice, 
prayers, sobs, and imprecations had changed it now into a soft 
and singularly touching tone, and now into a sound rude and al- 
most hoarse. Moreover, being perpetually in twilight or darkness, 
his eyes had acquired that singular faculty of distinguishing ob- 
jects in the night common to the hyena and the wolf. Edmond 
smiled when he beheld himself : it was impossible that his best 
friend — if ? indeed, he had any friend left — could recognize him ; 
he could not recognize himself. 

The master of La Jeune Amelie, \ ho was very desirous of re- 
taining amongst his crew a man of Edmond’s value, had offered 
an engagement to Dantes ; but Dantes, who had his own projects, 
would not agree for a longer time than three months. 

La Jeune Amelie had a very active crew, very obedient to their 
captain, who lost as little time as possible. He had scarcely been 
a week at Leghorn before the hold of his vessel was filled with 
goods on which the Crown had forgotten to put its mark. The 
master was to get all this out of Leghorn free of duties, and land 
it on the shores of Corsica, where speculators undertook to forward 
the cargo to France. 

When the profits were shared out, each man had a hundred Tus- 
can livres. But the voyage was not ended. They turned the 
bowsprit towards Sardinia, where they intended to take in a cargo, 
which was to replace what had been discharged. The second 
operation was as successful as the first, La Jeune Amilie was in luck. 
This new cargo was destined for the coast of the Duchy of Lucca, 
and consisted almost entirely of Havannah cigars, sherry, and 
Malaga wines. 

Two months and a half clasped in these trips, and Edmond had 
become as skilful a coaster as he had been a hardy seaman ; he 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR1ST0 . 


81 


had formed an acquaintance with all the smugglers on the coast, 
and learned all the masonic signs by which these half pirates rec- 
ognize each other. He had passed and re-passed his isle of 
Monte-Cristo twenty times, but not once had he found an oppor- 
tunity of landing there. In vain did he rack his imagination ; 
fertile as it was, he could not devise any plan for reaching the 
wished-for isle without being accompanied thither. 

Dantes was tossed about on these doubts and wishes, when the 
patron, who had great confidence in him, and was very desirous 
of retaining him in his service, took him by the arm one evening 
and led him to a tavern, where the leading smugglers of Leghorn 
used to congregate. It was here they discussed coast business. 
Already Dantes had visited this maritime Bourse two or three 
times, and seeing all these hardy free-traders, who supplied the 
whole coast for nearly two hundred leagues in extent, he had asked 
himself what power might not that man attain who should give 
the impulse of his will to all these contrary and diverging links. 
This time it was a greater matter that was under discussion, con- 
nected with a vessel laden with Turkey carpets, stuffs of the 
Levant, and cashmeres. It was requisite to find some neutral 
ground on which an exchange could be made, an then to try and 
land these goods on the coast of France. If successful the profit 
would be enormous, there would be fifty or sixty piastres each for 
the crew. 

The master of La Jeune Amelie proposed as a place of landing 
the isle of Monte-Cristo, which being completely deserted, and 
having neither soldiers nor revenue officers, seem to have been 
placed in the midst of the ocean by Mercury, the god of merchants 
,md robbers, classes which we in modern times have separated 
if not made distinct, but which antiquity appears to have included 
in the same category. At the mention of Monte-Cristo Dantes 
started with joy ; he rose to conceal his emotion, and took a turn 
ifound the smoky tavern, where all the languages of the known 
world were jumbled in a lingua franca . When he again joined 
the two persons who had been discussing, it had been decided 
that they should touch at Monte-Cristo, and set out on the follow- 
ing night. Edmond, being consulted, was of opinion that the 
island offered every possible security, and that great enterprises 
to be well done should be done quickly. Nothing then was altered 
in the plan arranged, and orders were given to get under weigh 
next night, and, wind and weather permitting, to gain, the day 
after, the waters of the neutral isle, 

6 


3a 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR1ST0* 


CHAPTER XIV. 

MONTE-CRISTO ISLAND. 

THtfS, at length, by one of those pieces of unlooked-for good for* 
tune which sometimes occur to those on whom misfortune has for 
a long time spent itself, Dantes was about to arrive at his wished* 
for opportunity by simple and natural means, and land in the island 
without incurring any suspicion. One night only separated him 
from his departure so ardently wished for. 

The night was one of the most feverish that Dantes had every 
passed, and during its progress all the charms good and evil passed 
through his brain. The day came at length, and was almost as 
feverish as the night had been, but it brought reason to aid his 
imagination, and Dantes, was then enabled to arrange a plan 
which, had hitherto been vague and unsettled in his brain. Night 
came, and with it the preparation for departure, and these prepara- 
tions served to conceal Dantes’ agitations. He had by degrees as- 
umed such authority over his companions that he was almost like 
a commander on board ; and as his orders were always clear, dis- 
tinct, and easy of execution, his comrades obeyed him with celerity 
and pleasure. 

The old Skipper did not interefere, for he too had recognized 
the superiority of Dantes over the crew and himself. He saw in 
the young man his natural successor, and regretted that he had not 
a daughter, that he might have bound Edmond to him by a distin- 
guished alliance. At seven o’clock in the evening all was ready, 
and at ten minutes past seven they doubled the lighthouse just as the 
beacon was kindled. The sea was calm, and, with a fresh breeze 
from the south-east, they sailed beneath a bright blue sky, in 
which God also lighted up in turn His beacon-lights, each of which 
is a world. Dantes told them that all hands might turn in, and he 
would take the helm. When the Maltese (for so they called 
Dantes) had said this, it was sufficient, and all went to their cots 
contentedly. This frequently happened. Dantes, rejected by 
all the world, frequently experienced a desire for solitude ; and 
what solitude is at the same time more complete, more poetical, 
than that of a bark floating isolated on the sea during the obscurity 
of the night, in the silence of immensity, and under the eye of 
Heaven ? 

Now this solitude was peopled with his thoughts, the night 
lighted up by his illusions, and the silence animated by his antici- 
pations. When the master awoke, the vessel was hurrying on with 


'THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


85 


every £a'f set, and every sail full with the breeze. They were making 
nearly ten knots an hour. The isle of Monte-Cristo loomed large in 
the horizon. Edmond resigned the bark to the master’s care, and 
went and lay down in his hammock ; but in spite of a sleepless night, 
he could not close his eyes for a moment. Two hours afterwards he 
came on deck, as the boat was about to double the isle of Elba. They 
were just abreast of Mareciana, and beyond the flat but verdant 
isle of La Pianosa. The peak of Monte-Cristo, reddened by the 
burning sun, was seen against the azure sky. Dantes desired the 
helmsman to put down his helm, in order to leave La Pianosa on 
the right hand as he knew that he should thus decrease the distance 
by two or three knots. About five o’clock in the evening the island 
was quite distinct, and everything on it was plainly perceptible, 
owing to that clearness of the atmosphere which is peculiar to the 
light which the rays of the sun cast at its setting. 

Night came, and at ten o’clock p. m. they anchored. The 
Amelie was the first at the rendezvous. In spite of his usual com- 
mand over himself, Dantes could not restrain his impetuosity. 
He was the first who jumped on shore. It was dark ; but at 
eleven o’clock the moon rose in the midst of the ocean, whose 
every wave she silvered, and then played in floods of pale light on 
the rocky hills of this second Pelion. 

The island was familiar to the crew of La Jeune A?nelie , — it was 
one of her halting-places. As to Dantes, he had passed it on his voy- 
ages to and from the Levant, but never touched at it. He questioned 
Jacopo. “ Where shall we pass the night? ” he inquired. 

“ Why, on board the tartane,” replied the sailor. 

** Should we not be better in the caves of the island?” 

“ I do not know of any,” replied Jacopo. 

For a moment Dantes was speechless ; then he remembered 
that these caves might have been filled up by some accident, or 
even stopped up, for the sake of greater security, by Cardinal Spada. 
The point was, then, to discover the last opening. It was useless 
to search at night, and Dantes therefore delayed all investigation 
until the morning. Besides, a signal made half a league out at 
sea, and to which La Jetaie Amt lie also replied by a similar sig- 
nal, indicated that the moment was arrived for business. The 
boat that now arrived, assured by the answering signal that all 
was right, soon came in sight, white and silent as a phantom, and 
cast anchor within a cable’s length of shore. 

Then the landing began. 

No one had the slightest suspicion ; and when next day, taking 
a fowling-piece, powder, and shot, Dantes testified a desire to go 
and kill some of the wild goats that were seen springing from rock 
to rock, his wish was construed into a love of sport, or a desire for 
solitude. However, Jacopo insisted on following him ; and 
Dantes did not oppose this, fearing if he did so that he might in- 
cur distrust. Scarcely, however* had he gone a quarter of a 


8 4 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


league than, having killed a kid, he begged Jacopo to take it to 
his comrades, and request them to cook it, and when ready to le* 
him know by firing a gun. 

When all was ready, they fired the signal and saw him hurrying 
down the crags ; but his foot slipped and he had a fall. He 
vowed that he was internally injured so that they had to leave him 
there, alone — though Jacopo wanted to stay by him — with the in- 
tention of calling for him in a little time. 

Needless to say, next morning he was up with the sun and be- 
gan his search solitarily on the lines which Faria had laid down. 
The hoard was cunningly concealed but he was too sagely directed 
to fail. The Spadas’ treasure was contained in a chest, which was 
opened by his pick. 

Three compartments divided the coffer. In the first, blazed 
piles of golden coin ; in the second, ingots, which possessed 110th- 
ng attractive save their value, were ranged ; in the third, Dantes 
grasped handfuls of diamonds, pearls, and rubies, which, as they 
/ell on one another, sounded like hail against glass. After having 
touched, felt, examined these treasures, Edmond rushed through 
the caverns like a man seized with frenzy ; he leapt on a rock, 
from whence he could behold the sea. He was alone. Alone with 
these countless, these unheard-of treasures J Was he awake, or 
was it but a dream? 

He soon felt himself calmer and more happy, for now only h© 
began to credit his felicity. He then set himself to count his for- 
tune There were a thousand bricks of gold, each weighing from 
two to three pounds; then he piled up twenty-five thousand 
crowns, each worth about twenty dollars of our money, and bear- 
ing the effigies of Alexander VI. and his predecessors ; and he 
saw that the compartment was not half empty. And he measured 
ten double handfuls of precious stones, many of which, mounted 
by the most famous workmen, were valuable for their execution. 
Dantes saw the light gradually disappear ; and fearing to be sur- 
prised in the cavern, left it, his gun in his hand. A piece of bis- 
cuit and a small quantity of rum formed his supper, and he 
snatched a few hours' sleep, lying over the mouth of the cave. 

On the sixth day the smugglers returned. They had merely 
come to Monte-Cristo to fetch him away, so he embarked that 
same evening, and proceeded with the captain to Leghorn. 
Arrived, he repaired to the house of a Jew dealer in precious 
stones, to whom he disposed of four of his smallest diamonds, for 
five thousand francs each. Dantes half feared that such valuable 
jewels in the hands of a poor sailor like himself might excite sus- 
picion ; but the cunning purchaser asked no troublesome questions 
concerning a bargain by which he gained at least four thousand 
francs. 

The following day Dantes presented Jacopo with an entirely 
new vessel, accompanying the gift by a donation of one hundred 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


85 


piastres, that he might provide himself with a suitable crew and 
other requisites for his outfit, upon conditions of his going direct 
to Marseilles for the purpose of inquiring after an old man named 
Louis Dantes, residing in Median Alley, and also a young female 
called Mercedes, an inhabitant of the Catalan village. Jacopo 
could scarcely believe his senses at receiving this munificent 
present, which Dantes hastened to account for by saying that he 
had merely been a sailor from whim and a desire to spite his 
friends who did not allow him as much money as he liked to spend ; 
but that on his arrival at Leghorn he had come into possession of 
a large fortune, left him by an uncle, whose sole heir he was. 
The superior education of Dantes gave an air of such extreme 
probability to this statement that it never once occurred to Jacopo 
to doubt its accuracy. The term for which Edmond had engaged 
to serve on board La Jeune Amelie having expired, Dantes took 
leave of the captain, who at first tried all his powers of persuasion 
to induce him to remain one of the crew, but having been told the 
history of the legacy, he ceased to importune him further. The 
succeeding morning Jacopo set sail for Marseilles, with directions 
from Dantes to join him at the island of Monte-Cristo. 

Having seen Jacopo fairly out of the harbor, Dantes proceeded 
fto make his final adieus on board La Jeune Amelie , distributing so 
liberal a gratuity among her crew as procured him the unanimous 
good wishes and expressions of cordial interest in all that con- 
cerned him ; to the captain he promised to write when he had 
made up his mind as to his future plans, this leave-taking over, 
Dantes departed for Genoa. At the moment of his arrival a small 
yacht was being tried in the bay ; this yacht had been built by 
order of an Englishman, who, having heard that the Genoese ex- 
celled all other builders along the shores of the Mediterranean in 
the construction of fast-sailing vessels, was desirous of possessing 
a specimen of their skill ; the price agreed upon between the 
Englishman and the Genoese builder was forty thousand francs. 
Dantes, struck with the beauty and capability of the little vessel, 
applied to its owner to transfer it to him, offering sixty thousand 
francs, upon condition of being allowed to take immediate pos- 
session of it. 

The following day Dantes sailed with his yacht from the port of 
Genoa, amid the gaze of an immense crowd drawn together by 
curiosity to see the rich Spanish nobleman who preferred manag- 
ing his vessel himself. But their wonder was soon exchanged to 
admiration at the perfect skill with which Dantes handled the 
helm, and, without quitting it, making his little vessel perform 
every movement he chose to direct : his bark seemed, indeed, re- 
plete with all but human intelligence, so promptly did it obey the 
slightest impulse given ; and Dantes required but a short trial of 
his beautiful craft to acknowledge that it was not without truth the 
Genoese had attained their high reputation in the art or ship-build* 


86 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


ing. The spectators followed the little vessel with their eyes so 
long as it remained visible ; they then turned their conjectures 
upon her probable destination. Some insisted she was making for 
Corsica, others the isle of Elba ; bets were offered to any amount 
that she was bound for Spain ; while Africa was positively reported 
by many persons as her intended course ; but no one thought of 
Monte-Cristo. Yet thither it was that Dantes guided his vessel, 
and at Monte-Cristo he arrived at the close of the second day. 
Early on the following morning he commenced the removal of his 
riches, and ere nightfall the whole of his immense wealth was 
sefely deposited in the secret compartments of his hidden closet. 

Upon the eighth day of his being on tne island he discerned a 
small vessel crowding all sail towards Monte-Cristo. As it neared, 
he recognized it as the bark given to Jacopo. He immediately 
signalled it. His signal was returned, and in two hours afterwards 
the bark lay at anchor beside the yacht. A mournful answer 
awaited each of Edmond’s eager inquiries as to the information 
Jacopo had obtained. Old Dantes was dead, and Mercedes had 
disappeared. Dantes listened to these melancholy tidings with 
outward calmness; but, leaping lightly ashore, he signified his 
desire to be quite alone. In a couple of hours he returned. Two 
of the men from Jacopo’s bark came on board the yacht to assist 
in navigating it, and he commanded she should be steered direct 
to Marseilles. For his father’s death he was in some manner pre- 
pared ; but how to account for the mysterious disappearance of 
Mercedes he knew not. 

Without divulging his secret, Dantes could not give sufficiently 
clear instructions to an agent. There were, besides, other particu- 
lars he was desirous of ascertaining, and those were of a nature 
he alone could investigate in a manner satisfactory to himself. 
His looking-glass had assured him, during his stay at Leghorn, 
that he ran no risk of recognition ; added to which, he had now 
the means of adopting any disguise he thought proper. One fine 
morning, then, his yacht, followed by the little bark, boldly 
entered the port of Marseilles, and anchored exactly opposite the 
memorable spot from whence, on the never-to-be-forgotten night 
of his departure for the Castle If, he had been put on board the 
vessel destined to convey him thither. Still Dantes could not view 
without a shudder the approach of a gendarme who accompanied 
the officers deputed to demand his bill of health ere the yacht was 
permitted to hold communication with the shore ; but with that per- 
fect self-possession he had acquired during his acquaintance with 
Faria, Dantes coolly presented an English passport he had ob- 
tained from Leghorn, and, with that prompt attention which all 
such documents receive, he was informed there existed no ob- 
stacle to his immediate debarkation. 

The first object that attracted the attention of Dantes, as lie 
landed ou the Canerbiere, was one of the crew belonging to the 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


87 


Pharaoh . Edmond hailed the appearance of this man, who had 
served under himself, as a sure test of the safe and perfect change 
time had worked in his own appearance. Going straight toward 
him, he commenced a variety of questions on different subjects, 
carefully watching the man’s countenance as he did so ; but not a 
word or look implied his having the slightest idea of ever having 
seen before the individual with whom he was then conversing. 
Giving the sailor a piece of money in return for his civility, 
Dantes proceeded onwards ; but ere he had gone many steps he 
heard the man loudly calling him to stop. Dantes instantly turned 
to meet him. “ I beg your pardon, sir/* said the honest fellow, 
in almost breathless haste, “ but I believe you have made a mis- 
take : you intended to give me a two-franc piece, and see, you 

gave me a double Napoleon.” " Thank you, my good friend. 

I see that I have made a trifling mistake, as you say ; but by way 
of rewarding your honest spirit I give you another double Napo- 
leon, that you may drink to my health, and be able to ask your 
messmates to join you.” 

So extreme was the surprise of the sailor, that he was unable 
even to thank Edmond, whose receding figure he continued to 
gaze after in speechless astonishment. At length, when Dantes 
had wholly disappeared, he drew a deep breath, and, with an- 
other look at his gold, he returned to the quay, saying to himself, 
“Ah, that’s a nabob from India. 9 * 

Dantes, meanwhile, continued his route. Each step he trod 
oppressed his heart with fresh emotion : his first and most indel- 
ible recollections were there ; not a tree, not a street that he 
passed but seemed filled with dear and cherished reminiscences. 
And thus he proceeded onward till he found himself at the door 
of the house in which his father had lived. Dantes succeeded in in- 
ducing the janitor to go up to the present possessors of the fifth 
flat, and ask permission for a gentleman to be allowed to look at 
them. The tenants of the humble lodging, once the scene of all 
Dantes’ early joys, consisted of a young couple who had been 
scarcely married a week ; and the sight of a wedded happiness 
he was doomed never to experience drove a bitter pang through 
his heart. 

The young couple gazed with astonishment at the sight of their 
visitor’s emotion, and wondered to see the large tears silently chase 
each other down his otherwise stern and immovable features ; but 
they felt the sacredness of his grief, and kindly refrained from 
questioning him as to its cause, while, with instinctive delicacy, 
they left him to indulge his sorrow alone. When he withdrew 
from the scene of his painful recollections, they both accom- 
panied him down-stairs, reiterating their hope that he would c ome 
again whenever he pleased, and assuring him their poor dwelling 
should ever be open to him. As Edmond passed the door of 
similar rooms on the fourth floor, he paused to inquire whether 


88 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


Caderousse the tailor still dwelt there ; but he received for reply, 
that the individual in question had got into difficulties, and at 
the present time kept a small inn on the Bellegarde-Beaucaire 
road. 

Having obtained the address of the person to whom the house 
in Median Alley belonged, Dantes next proceeded thither, and, 
under the name of Lord Wilmore (the same as that in his pass- 
port), purchased the small dwelling for the sum of 25,000 francs, 
at least 10,000 more than it was worth ; but had its owner asked 
ten times the sum he did, it would unhesitatingly have been 
given. The very same day the occupants of the apartments on 
the fifth floor of the house, now become the property of Dantes, 
were duly informed by the notary who had arranged the neces- 
sary transfer of deeds, &amp;c., that the new landlord gave them their 
choice of any of the rooms in the house, without the least aug- 
mentation of rent, upon condition of their giving instant pos- 
session of the two small chambers they at present inhabited. 

This strange event served to find food for wonder and curiosity 
in the neighborhood, and a multitude of various conjectures 
were afloat as to the probable cause of the house being so sud‘ 
denly and mysteriously disposed of ; but each surmise seemed to 
wander farther and farther from the truth. But that which 
raised public astonishment to a climax, and set all speculations 
at defiance, was the circumstance of the same stranger who had 
in the morning visited Median Alley being seen in the evening 
walking in the little village of the Catalans, and afterwards ob* 
served to enter a poor fisherman’s hut, and to pass more than an 
hour in inquiring after persons who had either been dead or gone 
away for more than fifteen or sixteen years. But on the follow- 
ing day the family from whom all these particulars had been 
asked received a handsome present, consisting of an entirely new 
fishing-boat, with a full supply of excellent nets. The delighted 
recipients of these munificent gifts would gladly have poured out 
their thanks to their generous benefactor ; but they had seen him, 
upon quitting the hut, merely give some orders to a sailor, and 
then, springing lightly on horseback, quit Marseilles. 


CHAPTER XV. 

THE ROADHOUSE. 

Midway between the town of Beaucaire and the village of BeL 
legarde, stood a small roadside inn, from the front of which hung, 
creaking and flapping in the wind, a sheet of tin covered with a 
caricature resemblance of the Pont du Gard. 

For nearly the last eight years the small inn we have just 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


89 


been describing had been kept by a man and his wife, with two 
servants. But, alas ! the occupation of each domestic was but 
nominal, for a canal recently made had proved a most success- 
ful speculation, and had transferred the mode of sending mer- 
chandize and luggage from the heavy wagons to the towed 
barge, while travelers forsook the diligence to glide over the 
smooth waters by the more agreeable aid of the steamboat. 
And, as though to add to the daily misery which the prosper- 
ous canal inflicted on the unfortunate man, whose utter ruin it 
was fast accomplishing, it was situated not a hundred steps from 
the forsaken inn, of which we have given so faithful a description. 

The host himself was a man of from forty to fifty-five years of 
age, tall, strong, and bony, a perfect specimen of the natives of 
those southern latitudes ; he had the dark, sparkling, and deep- 
set eye, curved nose, and teeth white as a carnivorous animal ; 
his hair, which, spite of the light touch time had as yet left on 
it, seemed as though it refused to assume any other color than its 
own, was like his beard, which he wore under his chin, thick and 
curly, and but slightly mingled with a few silvery threads. His 
naturally muddy complexion had assumed a still further shade of 
brown from the habit the unfortunate man had acquired of 
stationing himself from early morning till latest eve at the thres- 
hold of his door, in eager hope that some traveler, either eques- 
trian or pedestrian, might give him the delight of once more see- 
ing a guest enter his doors; but his patience and his expectations 
were alike useless ; yet there he stood, day after day, exposed to the 
beams of a burning sun, with no other protection for his head 
than a red handkerchief twisted around it, after the manner of 
Spanish muleteers. This anxious, careworn host was no other 
than our acquaintance Caderousse. 

His wife, Madeleine, was pale, meagre, and sickiy-looking. She 
remained nearly always in her chamber, situated on the first 
floor ; sitting shivering in her chair, or extended languid and 
feeble on her bed, while her husband kept his daily watch at the 
door — a duty he performed with so much the greater willingness, 
as it saved him the necessity of listening to the endless plaints 
and murmurs of his helpmate, who never saw him without break- 
ing out into bitter invectives against fate and the unmerited hard- 
ships she was called upon to endure ; to all of which her hus- 
band would calmly return an unvarying reply, couched in these 
philosophic words : 

" Cease to grieve about it, La Carconte. It is God’s pleasure 
that you should suffer, and whether you like it or not, you must 
bear it.” 

The sobriquet of La Carconte had been bestovred on Madeleine 
Radelle from the circumstance of her having been born in a 
village so called, and her husband had bestowed on her the name 
in place of her sweet and euphonious name of Madeleine, which. 


90 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


in all probability, his rude guttural language would not have en- 
abled him to pronounce. Still, let it not be supposed that amid 
this affected resignation to the will of Providence, the unfortunate 
host did not writhe under the double misery of seeing the hateful 
canal carry off alike his customers and profits, and the daily 
implication of his peevish partner’s lamentations. 

Like others of the south, he was of sober habits and moderate 
desires, but vain, and addicted to display. During the days 
of his prosperity, no festivity, or ceremonial took place with- 
out himself and wife being among the spectators. He 
dressed in the picturesque costume worn in the south, while La 
Carconte displayed the charming fashion prevalent among the 
females of Arles, a mode of attire borrowed equally from Greece 
and Arabia. But, by degrees, Gaspard Caderousse, unable to 
appear abroad in splendor, had given up any further participation 
in these pomps, both for himself or wife, although a bitter feeling 
of envious discontent filled his mind as merry sounds reached even 
the miserable hostelry to which he still clung, more for shelter than 
profit. 

Caderousse was, as usual, at his place of observation before the 
door, his eyes sadly glancing from a piece of closely-shaven 
grass — on which some fowls were picking — to the deserted road, 
north and south, when he was roused by the shrill voice of his 
wife. Murmuring, he proceeded to the chamber of his better half 
— taking care, to set the entrance-door wide open. 

At the moment Caderousse quitted the door, the road on which 
strained his sight was void and lonely as a desert at mid-day. 
There it lay stretched out, bordered by tall, meagre trees ; no one 
could imagine that any traveler would expose himself to such a 
formidable Sahara. Nevertheless, had Caderousse but retained his 
post, he might have caught sight from the direction of Bellegarde; 
a man and horse, between whom the kindest and most amiable 
understanding appeared to exist. His rider was a priest, 
dressed in black, and wearing a three-cornered hat ; spite of the 
ardent rays the pair came on at a tolerably smart trot. 

Having arrived, the horse stopped, but whether for his own pleas- 
ure or his rider’s would be difficult to say. However, the 
priest, dismounting, led his steed to a handle that projected from 
a shutter, he tied the animal, and, having drawn a red cotton hand- 
kerchief from his pocket, wiped away the perspiration that 
streamed from his brow. He struck thrice with his iron-shod 
stick. At this unusual sound a huge black dog came, snarling 
and displaying his sharp white teeth, with hostility that proved 
how little he was accustomed to society. A heavy footstep was 
heard descending the wooden stair-case from the upper floor, 
and, with many bows, mine host welcomed the priest. 

Said the astonished Caderousse. “Now, then, Margontin,’* 
cried he, “ will you be quiet ? Pray don’t heed him, sir 1 — he only 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


9 * 


barks, he never bites ! a glass of good wine would be acceptable 
this measly hot day ! * ’ Then perceiving for the first time the descrip- 
tion of traveler he had to entertain, Caderousse exclaimed: 11 A 
thousand pardons, your reverence ! I did not observe whom I 
had the honor to receive. What would you please to have, 
father ? I am at your service.” 

The priest gazed on the individual with a long and searching 
gaze — even seemed to court a similar scrutiny on the landlord's 
part ; then, remarking in the countenance no other expression 
than extreme surprise at his own want of attention to an inquiry, 
he deemed it as well to terminate this emotion, and said, speaking 
with a strong Italian accent: “You are, I presume, M. Cade- 

rousse ? ” 

“ Your reverence is quite correct,** answered the host, even 
more surprised at the question than by the silence ; “ I am Gas- 
pard Caderousse, at your service.” 

“ Gaspard Caderousse ! ” Yes, that agrees both with the bap- 
tismal appellation and surname. You formerly lived, I believe, 
in Median Alley, on the fourth floor ; where you followed the 
business of a tailor ? ’* 

“True, till the trade fell off. Then, it is so very hot at Mar- 
seilles, that the inhabitants will be obliged to leave off clothes. 
But talking of heat, can’t I offer you refreshment?” 

“ Yes ; let me have a bottle of your best, and then, with your 
permission, we will resume our conversation from where we left 
off.” 

“ As you please,** said Caderousse, who, anxious not to lose the 
present customer for one of the few bottles of Cahors still remain- 
ing, hastily raised a trap-door in the floor of the parlor and 
kitchen. Upon his issuing in five minutes, he found the abbe 
seated on a stool, leaning his elbow on a table, while Margontin, 
appeased by the traveler having pronounced the unusual com- 
mand for refreshments, had his long, skinny neck resting on his 
lap, while his dim eye was fixed on the traveler. 

“Are you quite alone?” inquired the guest, as Caderousse 
placed before him the bottle and a glass. 

“ Quite, quite alone, or, all but so, for my poor wife, is laid up 
with illness, and unable to render me the least assistance, poor 
Carconte ! ** 

“You are married, then?” said the priest, with interest, 
glancing round as he spoke at the humble fittings-up. 

“Ah, father,” said Caderousse, with a sigh, “in this world a 
man does not thrive the better for being honest.” The abbe 
fixed on him a piercing glance. 

“ I can certainly say that much for myself,” replied the publican, 
sustaining the scrutiny ; “I can boast with truth of being an 
honest man ; and,” continued he, shaking his head, “that is more 
than every one can say now-a-days.” 


92 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRIS TO. 


11 So much the better, if what you assert be true,** said the 
abbe ; “for I am firmly persuaded that, sooner or later, the good 
will be rewarded, and the wicked punished.” 

“Such words belong to your profession,” answered Cade- 
rousse, with a bitter expression, “ you cannot make people be- 
lieve them.” 

“You are wrong to speak thus,” said the abbe ; 41 and perhaps 
1 may, in my own person, be able to prove it." 

“ What mean you? ” inquired Caderousse, with surprise. 

44 In the first place, it is requisite I should be satisfied you are 
the person I am in search of.” 

44 What proofs do you reouire ? ” 

44 Did you, in the year 1814 or 1815, know of a sailor named 

Dantes ? 1 ' 

44 Did I ? I should think I did. Poor dear Edmond ! Why, 
Edmond ! Why, Edmond Dantes and myself were intimate 
friends ! ” exclaimed Caderousse, whose countenance assumed an 
almost purple hue, as he caught the penetrating gaze of the abbe 
fixed 011 him, while the clear, calm eye of the questioner seemed 
to cover him with confusion. 

44 You remind me,” said the priest, 44 that the young man con- 
cerning whom I asked you was said to bear the name of Ed- 
mond.” 

44 Said to bear the name ! ” repeated Caderousse, becoming 
excited and eager. 44 Why, he was so called as truly as I myself 
bore the appellation of Gaspard Caderousse : but, M. l’Abbe, tel? 
me, I pray, what has become of poor Edmond. Did you know 
him ? Is he alive and at liberty ? Is he prosperous and happy ? ” 

44 He died a more wretched, hopeless, heart-broken prisoner 
than the felons who pay the penalty of their crimes at the gal- 
leys of Toulon.” 

A deadly paleness succeeded the deep suffusion which had be- 
fore spread over the countenance of Caderousse, who turned 
away, but not so much so as to prevent the priest’s observing 
him wiping away the tears from his eyes with the corner of the 
red handkerchief twisted round his head. 

44 Poor fellow ! poor fellow ! ” murmured Caderousse. 44 Well, 
there, M. l’Abbe, is another proof that good people are never re- 
warded on this earth, and that none but the wicked prosper. 
Ah,” continued Caderousse, speaking in the highly-colored lan- 
guage of the South, 44 the world grows worse and worse. Why 
does not God, if He really hates the wicked, as He is said to do, 
send down brimstone and lire, and consume them altogether? ” 

44 You speak as though you had loved this young Dantes," 
observed the abbe, without taking any notice of his companion’s 

vehemence. 44 And so I did,” replied Caderousse ; 44 though 

once, I confess, I envied him his good fortune. But I swear to 
you, M. l’Abbe, I swear to you, by everything a man holds dear, 


inn COU/VI ur MOiVm CKlSTO. 9$ 

I have, since then, deeply and sincerely lamented his unhappy 
fate.” There was a brief silence, during which the fixed, search- 
ing eye of the abbe was employed scrutinizing the agitated feat- 
ures of the aubergiste. 

41 You knew the poor lad, then? ” continued Caderousse. 

&lt;« Nay, I was merely called to tee him when on his dying bed, 
that /might administer to him the consolations of religion.” 

“ And of what did he die?” asked Caderousse in a choking 
voice. 

“ Of what, think you, do young and strong men die in prison ? 
Edmond Dantes died in prison of sorrow and a broken heart.” 
Caderousse wiped away the perspiration gathered on his brow. 

“ But the strangest part of the story is,” resumed the abbe, 
“ that Dantes, even in his dying moments, swore by his crucified 
Redeemer, that he was utterly ignorant of the cause of his impris- 
onment.” 

‘‘And so he was,” murmured Caderousse. “How should he 
have been otherwise? Ah, the poor fellow told you the truth.” 

“ And for that reason, he besought me to try and clear up a 
mystery he had never been able to penetrate, and to clear his 
memory should any foul spot or stain have fallen on it.” And 
here the look of the abbe, becoming more and more fixed, seemed 
to rest with ill-concealed satisfaction on the gloomy depression 
which seemed rapidly spreading over the countenance of Cade- 
rousse. 

“ A rich Englishman,” continued the abbe, “ who had been his 
companion in misfortune, but had been released from prison dur- 
ing the second restoration, was possessed of a diamond of im- 
mense value : this precious jewel he bestowed on Dantes upon 
himself quitting the prison, as a mark of his gratitude for the 
kindness and brotherly care with which Dantes had nursed him 
in a severe illness he underwent during his confinement. Instead 
of employing this diamond in attempting to bribe his jailers, who 
might only have taken it and then betrayed him to the gov- 
ernor, Dantes carefully preserved it, that in the event of his get- 
ting out of prison he might have wherewithal to live, for the pro- 
duce of such a diamond woi Tl d have quite sufficed to make his for- 
tune.” 

Calmly drawing from his pocket a small box covered with 
black shagreen, the abbe opened it, and displayed to the de- 
lighted eyes of Caderousse the sparkling jewel it contained, set 
in a ring of admirable workmanship. “And that diamond,” 
cried Caderousse, almost breathless with eager admiration, “you 
say, is worth 50,000 francs? ” 

“ It is, without the setting, which is also valuable,” replied the 
priest as he closed the box, and returned it to his pocket, while 
its brilliant hues seemed still to dance before the eyes of the fasci* 

nated. 


94 


THE C PUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


“But how comes this diamond in your possession? Did Ed* 
mond make you his heir?'* 

“ No, merely his testamentary executor. When dying, the un* 
fortunate youth said to me, ‘ I once possessed four dear and faith- 
ful friends, besides the maiden to whom I was betrothed : and 
i feel convinced they have all unfeignedly grieved over my loss. 
The name of one of the four friends I allude to is Caderousse.’ ” 
He shivered as though he felt the dead cold hand of the betrayed 
Edmond grasping his own. 

“ 'Another of the number,’ ” continued the abbe, without seem- 
ing to notice the emotion, “'is called Danglars; and the third, 
spite of being my rival, entertained a very sincere affection for 
me.’ ” A fiendish smile played over the features of Caderousse, 
who was about to break in upon the abbe’s speech, when the 
latter, waving his hand, said : “ Allow me to finish first, and 

then if you have any observations to make, you can do so after- 
wards. ' The third of my friends, although my rival, was much 
attached to me, — his name was Fernand: that of my betrothed 
was- * '' Mercedes,” cried Caderousse eagerly. 

“To be sure. 'Well, then,’ said Dantes, — for you understand, 
I repeat his words just as he uttered them — ‘ you will go to Mar- 
seilles. For the purpose of selling this diamond; the produce of 
which you will divide into five equal parts, and give an equal 
portion to the only persons who have loved me upon earth.’ ” 

“ But why into five parts? ” asked Caderousse ; “ you only 

mentioned four persons.” 

“ Because the fifth is dead, as I hear. The fifth sharer in Ed- 
mond’s bequest was his own father.” “ Too true, too true ! ” 

ejaculated Caderousse, almost suffocated by the contending pas- 
sions which assailed him, '* the poor old man did die.” 

“ I learned so much at Marseilles,” replied the abbe, making a 
strong effort to appear indifferent ; “but from the length of time 
that has elapsed since the death of the elder Dantes, I was un- 
able to obtain any particulars of his end. You possibly may be 
capable of furnishing me with such minute circumstances as may 
serve to substantiate the decease of the elder Dantes.” 

“ I do not know who could if I could not,” said Caderousse. 
“Why I lived almost on the same floor with the poor old man. 
Ah, yes ! about a year after the disappearance of his son the old 
man died. The doctors called his complaint an internal inflamma- 
tion, I believe ; his acquaintances say he died of grief ; but I, who 
saw him in. his dying moments, I say he died of downright starva- 
tion.” 

“Starvation!” exclaimed the abbe, springing from his seat. 
Oh, it is impossible — utterly impossible?” 

“What I have said, I have said,” answered Caderousse. 
l “ And you ars a fool fos* having said anything about it,” said a 


THE CC'/NT OF MONTE CRISTO . 

Vbicfc from the top of the stairs. 14 Why should you meddle with 
What does not concern you ? ” 

The two male speakers turned round quickly, and perceived 
the sickly countenance of La Carconte leaning over the rail of the 
staircase ; attracted by the sound of voices, she had feebly 
dragged herself down the stairs, and, seated on the lower step, she 
had listened to the foregoing conversation. 

44 I pledge you my sacred word, madame,” said the abbe, 
P4 that my intentions are free from all sorts of harm or injury to 
you or yours ; and that whatever evils may befall you, they will 
not be occasioned by my instrumentality, that I solemnly promise 
you.” 

Some inarticulate sounds escaped La Carconte, then letting her 
head, which she had raised during the excitement of conversa- 
tion, again droop on to her lap, she commenced her usual anguish 
trembling, the result of her feverish attack, leaving the two speak- 
ers to resume the conversation, but still remaining herself so 
placed as to be able to hear every word they uttered. The 
abbe had been obliged to swallow a draught of water to calm the 
emotions that threatened to overpower him. When he had suffi- 
ciently recovered himself, he said : — 44 It appears, then, that the 
miserable old man you were telling me of, was forsaken by every 
one. Surely, had not such been the case, he would not have per- 
ished by so dreadful a death as you described.” 

4 ‘ Why, he was not altogether forsaken,” continued Caderousse ; 
4, for Mercedes the Catalan and M. Morrel were very kind to 
him ; but somehow the poor old man had contracted a profound 
hatred of Fernand — the very person,” added Caderousse, with a 
bitter smile, 44 that you named just now as being one of Dantes 
faithful and attached friends. Can a man be faithful to an- 
other whose wife he covets and desires for himself? But Dantes 
was so honorable and true in his own nature, that he believed 
eyerybody’s professions of friendship. Poor Edmond ! he was 
cruelly deceived ; but it was a happy thing he never knew it, or 
he might have found it more difficult, when on his deathbed, to 
pardon his enemies. And, whatever people may say,” continued 
Caderousse, in his native language, which was not altogether de- 
void of rude poetry, 44 1 cannot help being more frightened at the 
idea of the malediction of the dead than the hatred of the living.” 
44 Weak-minded coward ! ” exclaimed La Carconte. 

44 Do you, then, know in what manner Fernand injured 
Dantes?” inquired the abbe of Caderousse. 

44 Why, what good would it do? ” asked Caderousse. 44 If the 
poor lad were living, and came to me to beg I would candidly tell 
which were his true and which his false friends, why, perhaps, I 
should not hesitate. But you tell me he is no more, and therefore 
can have nothing to do with hatred or revenge ; so let all such 
feelings be buried with him.” 


@5 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO : 


•• You prefer, then,” said the aboe, “ allowing me to bestow oft 
men you say are false and treacherous, the reward intended for 
faithful friendship ? ” 

“ That is true enough,” returned Caderousse. “ You say truly* 
the diamond of poor Edmond was not meant for such traitors as 
Fernand and Dangiars ; besides, what would it be to them? no 
more than a drop of water in the ocean.” 

“ Diamond ! ” exclaimed La Carconte, rising and descending to 
the chamber with a tolerably firm step ; “ what diamond are you 
talking about ? ” 

“ Why, did you not hear all we said?” inquired Caderousse, 
a&lt; It is a beautiful diamond left by poor Edmond Dantes, to be 
sold, and the money divided among his father, Mercedes, his be« 
trothed bride, Fernand, Dangiars, and myself. The jewel is worth 
at least 50,000 francs and might all be ours — a holy man would 
not deceive.” 

But Carconte retired to her room, reluctant, while her husband 
said, shaking his head : “ The tale is a sad one — perhaps you 

know the beginning ? ’ * 

“Yes,” aswered the abbe : " Edmond related to me every- 
thing until the moment he was arrested in a small tavern close ic 
Marseilles.” 

“ At La Reserve ! Oh, yes ! ” 

His betrothal feast that began so gaily had a very sorrowful 
ending ; a commissary of police, followed by four soldiers, en- 
tered, and Dantes was arrested. 

‘‘Well, when Dantes was arrested, M. Morrel hastened to ob- 
tain the particulars, and they were very sad. The old man re- 
turned alone to his home, would not go to bed at all, for I was 
underneath him and heard him walking the whole night. The 
next day Mercedes went to implore the protection of Attorney Ville- 
fort ; she did not obtain it, however, and went to visit the old 
man; when she saw him so miserable and heart-broken, she 
wished him to go with her that she might take care of him ; but 
the old man would not consent. He seemed to dislike seeing me. 
One night, however, I hear his sobs, and I could not resist my 
desire to go up to him, but when I reached his door he was no 
longer weeping but praying. 

“ From day to day he lived on alone, and more and more soli- 
tary. M. Morrel and Mercedes came to see him, but his door was 
closed ; and, although I was certain he was at home he would not 
make any answer. Dantes was left all to himself, and I only saw 
strangers go up to him and come down again with some bundle 
they tried to hide ; but I guessed what these bundles were, and he 
sold by degrees what he had to pay for his subsistence. At 
length, the poor old fellow reached the end of all he had ; he owel 
three quarters’ rent, and they threatened to turn him out ; he 
begged for another week, which was granted to him. 1 went and 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


97 


told M. Morrel, and then ran on to Mercedes. They both came 
immediately, M. Morrel bringing a doctor, and the doctor said it 
was an affection of the stomach, and ordered him a limited diet. 
I was there too, and I never shall forget the old man’s smile at 
this prescription. From that time he opened his door, he had an 
excuse for not eating any more, as the doctor had put him on a 
diet. M. Morrel’s wish also, who would fain have conveyed the old 
man against his consent ; but the old man resisted, and cried so, 
that they were actually frightened. Mercedes remained, there- 
fore, by his bedside, and M. Morrel went away, making a sign to 
the Catalane that he had left his purse on the chimney-piece. 
But availing himself of the nine days’ despair and fasting, the 
old man died, cursing those who had caused his misery, and say- 
ing to Mercedes, — 4 If you ever see my Edmond again, tell him I 
die blessing him.’ ” 

44 This was, indeed, a horrid event,” said the priest, in a hoarse 
voice. 

"The more so, sir, as it was men’s and not God’s doing.” 
"Tell me of those men,” said the abbe, " and remember too,” he 
added, in a voice that was nearly menacing in its tone, " you have 
promised to tell me everything. Tell me, therefore, who are these 
men who have killed the son with despair, and the father with 

famine ? ” " Two men jealous of him, sir ; one from love, and 

the other ambition, — Fernand and Danglars. They denounced 
Edmond as a Bonapartist agent. Danglars wrote the denuncia- 
tion with his left hand, that his writing might not be recognized, 
and Fernand put it in the post. They had made me drink to such 
an excess that I nearly lost all perception. I said all that a man 
in such a state could say ; but they both assured me that it was a 
jest they were carrying on, and perfectly harmless.” 

" Next day — next day, sir, you must have seen plain enough 
what they had been doing, yet you said nothing, though you were 

present when Dantes was arrested.” "Yes, sir, I w as there, 

and very anxious to speak ! but Danglars restrained me. ‘ If he 
should really be guilty,' said he, 4 and did really put in at Elba ; 
if he is really charged with a letter for the Bonapartist committee 
at Paris, and if they find this letter upon him, those who have sup- 
ported him will pass for his accomplices.’ I confess I had my fears, 
in the state in which politics then were, and 1 held my tongue. It 
v^as cowardly, I confess, but it was not criminal.” 

There was a brief silence ; the abbe rose and paced up and 
down pensively, and then resumed his seat. " You have two or 
three times mentioned a M. Morrel,” he said ; " wdio v*as he ? ” 

&lt; "The owner of the Pharaoh and employer of Dantes.” 

44 And what part did he play in this sad drama? ” inquired the 

abb6. 

"The part of an honest man, full of courage and real regard. 
Twenty times he interceded for Edmond, When the emperor re- 

7 


98 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


turned, lie wrote, implored, threatened, and so energetically, that 
on the second restoration he was persecuted as a Bonapartist. 
Ten times, as I told you, he came to see Dantes* father, and 
offered to receive him in his own house ; and the night or two be- 
fore his death, as I have already said, he left his purse on the 
mantelpiece, with which they paid the old man’s debts, and 
buried him decently ; and then Edmond’s father died, as he had 
lived, without doing harm to any one, I have the purse still by 
me — a large one, made of red silk.’* 

“And,” asked the abbe, “is M, Morrel still alive?” 

“ Yes,” replied Caderousse. 

“In this case,” replied the abb6, “he should be rich and 
happy,” Caderousse smiled bitterly. “Yes, happy as myself,” 
said he. After five-and-twenty years of labor, after a most 
honorable name in the trade of Marseilles, M. Morrel is utterly 
ruined . he has lost five ships in two years, has suffered by the 
bankruptcy of three large houses, and his only hope now is in 
that very Pharaoh which poor Dantes commanded, and expected 
from the Indies with a cargo of cochineal and indigo. If this 

ship founders, like the others, he is a ruined man.” “ And has 

the unfortunate man wife or children ? ” inquired the abbe. 

“ Yes, he has a wife, who in all this behaved like an angel ; he 
has a daughter, who was about to marry the man she loved, but 
whose family will not allow him to wed the daughter of a ruined 
man ; he has, besides, a son, a lieutenant in the army ; and, as 
you may suppose, all this, instead of soothing, doubles his grief. 
If he were alone in the world he would blow out his brains, and 
there would be an end.” 

“ Horrible ! ” ejaculated the priest. 

“And it is thus Heaven recompenses virtue, sir,” added Cade- 
rousse. “ You see, I, who never did a bad action but that I have 
told you of — am in destitution, seeing my poor wife die of a fever, 
unable to do anything in the world for her ; I shall die of hunger, 
as old Dantes did, whilst Fernand and Danglars are rolling in 
wealth.” 

“ How is that ? ” 

“ Because all their malpractices have turned to luck, while 
nonest men have been reduced to misery.” 

“What has become of Danglars, the instigator, and therefore 
the most guilty ? ” 

“ Why, he left Marseilles, and was taken, on the recommenda- 
tion of Mu Morrel, who did not know his crime, as cashier into a 
Spanish bank. During the war with Spain he was employed in the 
-commissariat of the French army, and made a fortune ; then with 
that money he speculated in the funds, and trebled or quadrupled 
his capital ; and, having first married his banker’s daughter, who 
left him a widower, he has married a second time, a widow, Z 
Mdme. de Nargonne, daughter of Servieux, the king’s chamber* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


99 


tain, in high favor at court. He is a millionaire, and Baron 
Danglars, with mansion, horses in his stables, footmen in his ante- 
chamber, and I know not how many hundreds of thousands in his 
strong-box. ” 

"Ah!” said the abbe, with a peculiar tone, "he is happy. 
And Fernand?” "Fernand! He has both fortune and posi- 

tion — both.” 

"Some days before the return of the emperor, Fernand was 
drawn in the conscription. The Bourbons left him quietly enough 
at the Catalans, but Napoleon returned, an extraordinary muster 
was determined on, and Fernand was compelled to join. 
Fernand was enrolled in the active forces, went to the frontier with 
his regiment, and was at the battle of Ligny. The night after that 
battle he was sentry at the door of a general who carried on a 
secret correspondence with the enemy. That same night the‘ gen- 
eral was to go over to the English. He proposed to Fernand to 
accompany him, Fernand agreed, deserted, and followed the gen- 
eral. That which would have brought Fernand to a court-martial 
if Napoleon remained on the throne, served for his recommenda- 
tion to the Bourbons. He returned to France with the epaulette 
of sub-lieutenant, and as the protection of the general, who is in 
the highest favor, was accorded to him, he was a captain in 1823, 
during the Spanish war — that is to say, at the time w'hen Danglars 
made his early speculations. Fernand w^as a Spaniard, and 
being sent to Spain to ascertain the feeling of his fellow-country- 
men, found Danglars there, became on very intimate terms with 
him, and, rendered such services in this brief compaign that, 
after the taking of Trocadero, he was made colonel, and received 
the title of count and officer of the Legion of Honor. The war 
with Spain being ended, Fernand’s career was checked by the 
long peace which seemed likely to endure throughout Europe. 
Greece only had risen against Turkey, and had begun her war of 
independence ; Fernand obtained leave to go and serve in Greece, 
still having his name kept on the rolls. Some time after, it was 
stated that the Count of Morcerf (the name he bore) had entered 
the service of Ali Pacha with the rank of instructor-general. Ali 
Pacha was killed, as you know ; but before he died he recom- 
pensed the services of Fernand by leaving him a considerable 
sum, with which he returned to France, when his rank of lieuten- 
ant-general was confirmed. He possesses a magnificent house 
— No. 27, Rue du Helder, Paris.” 

The abbe hesitated, then, making an effort over himself, he said, 
"And Mercedes — they tell me that she has disappeared ? ” 

" Disappeared,” said Caderousse, " yes, as the sun disappears, 
to rise the next day wfith still more splendor. Mercedes is at this 
moment one of the greatest ladies in Paris,” replied Caderousse. 
" In the midst of her despair, a fresh trouble overtook her. This 
«raa the departure of Fernand —whose crime she did not know, and 


£00 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


whom she regarded as her brother. Fernand went, and Merc6d&amp;* 
remained alone. 

“ Fernand, when he learned the old man’s death, returned. He 
was now a lieutenant. At his first coming he had not said a word 
of love to Mercedes ; at the second he reminded her that he loved 
her. Mercedes begged for six months more to expect and bewail 
Edmond. Then the marriage took place in the church of Accoules. 

A week after the wedding they left Marseilles.” “ Did you ever 

see Mercedes again,” inquired the priest. 

“ Yes, during the war of Spain, at Perpignan, when Fernand 
had left her ; she was attending to the education of her son, little 
Albert. She is rich, a countess, and yet she is not happy,” said 
Caderousse. 06 When I found myself very wretched, I thought my 
old friends would, perhaps, assist me. So I went to Danglars, who 
would not even receive me. I called on Fernand, who sent me a 
hundred francs by his valet-de-chambre.” 

“ Then you did not see either of them? ” 

“ No " but Mdme* de Morcerf saw me. As I went away a purse 
fell at my feet — it contained five-and-twenty louis ; I raised my 
head quickly, and saw Mercedes, who shut the blinds directly.” 

“ And M n de Villefort?” asked the abbe. “Oh, he never 

was a friend of mine. I only know that some time after having ar- 
rested hi? v he married Mdlle. Saint-Meran, and soon after left 
Marseilles ; no doubt but he has been as lucky as the rest ; no 
doubt he is rich as Danglars, as high in station as Fernand. I 
only ^ as yon see, have remained poor, wretched, and forgotten.” 

00 You i mistaken, my friend,” replied the abbe: “God may 
seem S' lOtlmes to forget for a while, whilst His justice reposes, but 
there always comes a moment when He remembers — and behold ! 
a proof* 0 " Ashe spoke, the abbe took the diamond from his pocket, 
and giving if to Caderousse, sgad, — “ Here, my friend, take this 
diamond, it* ic, jourSo” 

cc Wheat l Tor me only ? ” cried Caaerousse ; “ ah ! sir, do not jest 
with m. ! ps 

ac In xc'hange, 0 * he continued, “ give me the red silk purse that 
M. M rrel leat on old Dantes’ chimney-piece, and which you tell 
me is still an your hands. May this money profit you ! Adieu ! I 
go far from nen who thus so bitterly injure each other.” The 
abbe with difficulty got away from the enthusiastic thanks of 
Caderousse, opened the door himself, got out and mounted his 
horse, one. more saluted the innkeeper, who kept uttering his loud ^ 
farewells,, and then returned by the road he had traveled in com*/ 
ingo When Caderousse turned round, he saw behind him La 
Carconte, paler and trembling more than ever. 

Fifty thousand francs ! ” muttered she ; u it is a large sum of 
money, but k as not a fortune.’ 1 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


lOl 


CHAPTER XVI. 

THE PRISON REGISTER. 

The day after, a man of about thirty, dressed in a bright blue 
frock-coat, nankeen trousers, and a white waistcoat, having the 
appearance and accent of an Englishman, presented himself be- 
fore the mayor of Marseilles. 

“ Sir,” said he, “I am chief clerk of Messrs. Thomson and 
French, of Rome. We are, and have been these ten years, con- 
nected with the house of Morrel and Son, of Marseilles. We have 
a hundred thousand francs or thereabouts engaged in speculation 
wilh them, and we are a little uneasy at reports that have reached 
us that the firm is on the eve of ruin. I have come, therefore, ex- 
press from Rome, to ask you for information as to this house.” 

“Sir,” replied the mayor, “I know very well that during the 
last four or five years, misfortune seems to pursue M. Morrel. Hfr 
has lost four or five vessels, and suffered by three or four bank* 
ruptcies ; but it is not for me, although I am a creditor myself tty 
the amount of ten thousand francs to give any information as to 
the state of his finances. Ask of me, as mayor, what is my opinioh 
of M. Morrel, I shall say he is a man honorable to the last degree, 
and who has up to this time fulfilled every engagement with scrupu* 
lous punctuality This is all I can say, sir : if you wish to learn 
more, address yourself to Boville, the inspector of prisons, No. 15, 
Rue de Nouailles ; he has, I believe, two hundred thousand francs 
in the hands of Morrel, and if there be any grounds for apprehen- 
sion, as this is a greater amount than mine, you will most probably 
find him better informed than myself.” 

The Englishman seemed to appreciate this extreme delicacy, 
made his bow, and went away towards the street mentioned. 
.Boville was in his private room, and the Englishman, on perceiv- 
ing him, made a gesture of surprise, which seemed to indicate that 
it was not the first time he had been in his presence. As to M. de 
Boville, he was in such a state of despair, that it was evident all 
the faculties of his mind, absorbed in the thought which occupied 
him at the moment, did not allow either his memory or his im- 
agination to stray to the past. The Englishman, with the coolness 
of his nation, addressed him in terms nearly similar to those with 
which he had accosted the mayor of Marseilles. “ Oh, sir,” ex- 
claimed Boville, “ your fears are unfortunately but too well 
founded, and you see before you a man in despair. I had informed 
M. Morrel of my desire to have payments punctually, and he has 


1 02 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


been here within the last half-hour to tell me that if his ship, the 
Pharaoh , did not come into port on the 15th, he would be wholly 
unable to make his payment. I consider it lost.” 

“ Well, then, I will buy it of you ! ” 

“ But at a tremendous discount, of course? ” 

“ No, for two hundred thousand francs. Our house,” added the 
Englishman, with a laugh, “ does not do things in that way.” 

The Englishman drew from his pocket a bundle of bank-notes, 
twice the sum M. de Boville feared to lose. A ray of joy passed 
across M. de Boville’s countenance, yet he made an effort over him- 
self, and said, — “Sir, I ought to tell you that, in all probability, 
you will not have six per cent, of this sum.” 

“ Sir,” replied the Englishman, laughing, “ I am like my house, 
and do not do such things — no, the commission I ask is quite dif- 
ferent.” 

“Name it, sir, I beg.” “You are the inspector of prisons, 

keeping registers and notes relative to the prisoners? ” 

“ There are special reports on every prisoner.” 

“ Well, sir, I was educated at Rome by a poor priest, who dis- 
appeared suddenly. I have since learned that he was confined in 
Castle If, and I should like to learn some particulars of his death.” 
“ What was his name ? ” 

“The Abbe Faria.” 

“Oh, I recollect him perfectly/’ cried M. de Boville; “he was 
crazy. He pretended to know of an immense treasure, and offered 
vast sums to government if they would liberate him.” 

“ Poor devil ! is he dead ? ’ * 

“ Yes, sir ; five or six months ago, last February.” 

“ You have a good memory, sir, to recollect dates so well! ” 

“ I recollect this, because the poor devil’s death was accom- 
panied by a singular circumstance.” 

“ May I ask what that was? ” said the Englishman, with an ex- 
pression of curiosity in his phlegmatic countenance. 

“ Oh dear, yes, sir ; the abbe’s dungeon was forty or fifty feet 
distant from that of an old agent of Bonaparte’s — a very resolute 
and very dangerous man. It appears, sir, that this Edmond Dantes 
had procured tools, or made them, for they found a passage by 
which the prisoners communicated, formed, no doubt, with an in- 
tention of escape ; but unfortunately for the prisoners, the Abbe 
Faria had an attack of catalepsy, and died.” 

“That must have cut short the projects of escape.” 

“ For the dead man, yes,” replied M. de Boville, “but not for 
the surviver, on the contrary, this Dantes saw a means of accelerat- 
ing his escape. He, no doubt, thought that prisoners who died in 
the Chateau d’ If were interred in a burial-ground as usual, and 
he conveyed the dead man into his own cell, assumed his place in 
the sack in which they had sewn up the defunct, and awaited th# 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


\03 


moment of interment.” “ It was a bold step, and one that in- 

dicated some courage,” remarked the Englishman. 

“ As I have already told you, sir, he was a very dangerous man ; 
and, fortunately, by his own act disembarrassed the government 
of the fears it had on his account.” 

“ The castle has no cemetery , and they simply throw the dead 
into the sea, after having fastened a thirty-six pound ball to their 
feet. You may imagine the amazement of the fugitive when he 
found himself flung headlong beneath the rocks ! 1 should like to 

have seen his face at that moment.” 

“ And so,” continued the Englishman, who first gained his com- 
posure, “ he was drowned ? * * 

“ Unquestionably.” 

“ But to return to these registers.” 

“So, sir, you wish to see all relating to the poor abbe, who 
really was gentleness itself.” 

And they both entered M. de Boville’s study. All was arranged 
in order. The inspector begged the Englishman to seat himself 
in an arm-chair, and placed before him the register and docu- 
ments relative to Castle If, giving him all the time he desired to 
examine it, whilst De Boville seated himself in a corner, to read 
his newspaper. The Englishman easily found the entries relative 
to the Abbe Faria ; but it seemed that the story which the inspec- 
tor had related interested him greatly, for after having perused the 
first documents he turned over the leaves until he reached the de- 
position respecting Edmond Dantes. There he found everything 
arranged in due order — the denunciation, examination, Morrel’s 
petition, Villefort’s marginal notes. He folded up the denuncia- 
tion quietly, and put it as quietly in his pocket ; read the examina- 
tion, and saw that Noirtier was not mentioned in it ; perused, too, 
the application, dated ioth April, 1815, in which Morrel, by the 
deputy’s advice, exaggerated with the best intentions (for Napoleon 
was then on the throne) the services Dantes had rendered to the 
imperial cause — services which Villefort’s certificates rendered in- 
dispensable. Then he saw through all. This petition to Napo- 
leon, kept back by Villefort, had become, under the second restor- 
ation, a terrible weapon against him in the lawyer’s hands. He 
was no longer astonished when he searched on to find in the regis- 
ter this note, placed in a bracket against his name : 

f An inveterate Bonapartist ; took an active 

Edmond Dantes, J Pf rt , in ‘ h . e return from the Isle of Elba. 

j To be kept in complete solitary confinement, 
[ and to be strictly watched and guarded. 
Beneath these lines was written, in another hand : “See Note 
above — nothing can be done.” He compared the writing in the 
bracket with the writing of the certificate placed beneath Morrel’s 
petition, and discovered that the note in the bracket was the same 
writing as the certificate — that is to say, were in Villefort’s hand- 


104 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


writing. As to the note which accompanied this, the Englishman 
understood that it might have been added by some inspector, who 
had taken a momentary interest in Dantes’ situation, but who had, 
from the remarks we have quoted, found it impossible to give any 
effect to the interest he experienced. 

As we have said, the inspector, from discretion, and that he 
might not disturb the Abbe Faria’s pupil in his researches, had 
seated himself in a corner, and was reading. He did not see the 
Englishman fold up and place in his pocket the denunciation writ- 
ten by Danglars which had the post-mark of Marseilles, 2nd 
March, delivery 6 o’clock p. m. But it must be said that if he had 
seen it, he attached so small importance to this scrap of paper, and 
so great importance to his 200,000 francs, that he would not have 
opposed what the Englishman did, how incorrect it might be. 

“Thanks! ” said the latter, closing the register with a noise, 
“ I have all I want ; now it is for me to perform my promise. Give 
me a simple assignment of your debt ; acknowledge therein the 
receipt of the cash, and I will hand you over the money.” He 
rose, gave his seat to M. de Boville, who took it without ceremony, 
quickly drew out the required assignment, whilst the Englishman 
** r as counting out the bank-notes on the other side of the desk. 


CHAPTER XVII. 

THE FIRM OF MORREL AND SON. 

Any one who had quitted Marseilles a few years previously, well 
acquainted with the interior of Morrel’s house, and had returned 
at this date, would have found a great change. In the deserted 
corridor and the empty office, out of all the numerous clerks that 
used to fill the office, but two remained. One was a young man 
of three or four and twenty, who was in love with M. Morrel’s 
daughter, and had remained with him, spite of the efforts of his 
friends to induce him to withdraw ; the other was an old one-eyed 
cashier, named Codes. 

In the midst of the distress of the house, Cocl&amp;s was the only 
one unmoved. But this did not arise from a want of affection, but, 
on the contrary, from a firm conviction. It seemed as impossible 
to him that the house should stop payment, as it would to a miller 
that the river that had so long turned his mill should cease to flow. 

Nothing had as yet occurred to shake Codes belief ; the last 
month’s payment had been made with the most scrupulous exacti- 
tude ; Codes had detected an error of fourteen sous to the preju- 
dice of Morrel, and the same evening he had brought them to M. 
Morrel, who, with a melancholy smile, threw them into an almost 
empty drawer, saying : 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CPIS TO. 


I°S 


“Thanks, Codes ; you are the pearl of cashiers.” 

Codes retired perfectly happy, for this eulogium of M. Morrel, 
himself the pearl of the honest men of Marseilles, flattered him 
more than a present. But since the end of the month, M. Morrel 
had passed many an anxious hour. His resources were now ex- 
hausted. Credit, owing to the reports afloat, was no longer to be 
had ; and to meet the sum due on the 15th of the present month 
to Boville, and that due on the 15th of the next month, Morrel 
had, in reality, no hope but the return of the Pharaoh, whose de- 
parture he had learnt from a vessel which had weighed anchor at 
the same time, and which had already arrived in harbor. But 
this vessel, which, like the Pharaoh , came from Calcutta, had ar- 
rived a fortnight, whilst no intelligence had been received of the 
Pharaoh. 

Such was the state or things when, the day after his interview 
with M. de Boville, the confidential clerk of the house of Thomson 
and French, presented himself at M. Morrel’s. Emmanuel re- 
ceived him ; the young man whom every fresh visage alarmed, for 
each fresh visage announced a fresh creditor, who, in his alarm, 
came to question the head of the house. The young man, wishing 
to spare his employer the pain of this interview, questioned the 
new comer ; but the stranger declared he had nothing to say to M. 
Emmanuel, and that his business w r as with M. Morrel in person. 
Emmanuel sighed, and summoned Codes. Codes appeared, and 
the young man bade him conduct the stranger to M. Morrel’ s 
apartment. Codes went first, and the stranger followed him. On 
the staircase they met a beautiful girl of sixteen or seventeen, who 
looked with anxiety at the stranger. 

“ Is M. Morrel in his room, mademoiselle ? ” said the cashier. 

“ Yes ; I think so, at least,” said the girl, hesitatingly. 41 Go 
and see, Codes, and if my father is there, announce this gentle- 
man.” 

“ It will be useless to announce me, miss,” returned the Eng- 
lishman. *' M. Morrel does not know' my name ; this worthy gen- 
tleman has only to announce the confidential clerk of the house of 
Thomson and French, of Rome, wfith whom your father does busi- 
ness.” 

The girl turned pale, and continued to descend, while the stran- 
ger and Codes continued to mount the staircase. She entered the 
office where Emmanuel was, whilst Codes, by the aid of a key, 
opened a door on the second staircase, conducted the stranger into 
an antechamber, opened a second door, w'hich he dosed Behind 
him, and after having left the clerk alone, returned and signed to 
him that he could enter. The Englishman entered, and founa 
Morrel seated at a table, turning over the formidable columns of 
his ledger, wdiich contained the list of his liabilities. At the sight 
of the stranger, M. Morrel closed the ledger, rose, and offered a 
seat to the stranger ; and when he had seen him seated, resumed 


io6 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


his own chair. Fourteen years had changed the worthy merchant, 
who, in his thirty-sixth year at the opening of this story, was now 
in his fiftieth ; his hair had turned white, time and sorrow had 
ploughed deep furrows on his brow, and his look, once so firm and 
penetrating, was now irresolute and wandering, as if he feared be- 
ing forced to fix his attention on an idea or a man. The English- 
man looked at him with an air of curiosity, evidently mingled with 
interest. “ Sir,” said Morrel, whose uneasiness was increased by 
this examination, “ you wish to speak to me.” 

“ Yes, sir ; you are.aware from whom I come? ” 

“ The house of Thomson and French ; at least, so my cashier 
tells me.” 

11 He has told you rightly. The house of Thomson and French 
had 300,000 or 400,000 francs to pay this month in France ; and, 
knowing your strict punctuality, have collected all the bills bearing 
your signature, and charged me as they became due to present 
them, and to employ the money otherwise.” 

“Here is,” said the Englishman, taking a quantity of papers 
from his pocket, “ an assignment of 200,000 francs to our house by 
M. de Boville, the inspector of prisons, to whom they are due. 
You acknowledge, of course, you owe this sum to him? *’ 

“ I do,” said Morrel, whose face was suffused as he thought 
that, for the first time in his life, he would be unable to honor his 
own signature. “ Is this all?” 

" No, I have for the end of the month these bills which have 
been assigned to us by Pascal, and the Wild and Turner, of Mar- 
seilles, amounting to nearly 55,000 francs ; in all, 287,500 
francs.” It is impossible to describe what Morrel suffered during 
this enumeration. “ I will not,” continued the other, after a mo- 
ment’s silence, “ conceal from you, that whilst your probity and 
exactitude up to this moment are universally acknowledged, yet 
the report is current in Marse : lles that you are not able to meet 
your engagements.” 

At this almost brutal speech Morrel turned deathly pale. 

“Sir,” said he, “up to this time — and it is now more than 
four-and-twenty years since I received the direction of this house 
from my father, who had himself conducted it for five-and-thirty 
years — never has anything bearing the signature of Morrel and 
Son been dishonored.” 

“ I know that,” replied the Englishman. “ But as a man of honor 
should answer another, tell me fairly, shall you pay these with the 
same punctuality ? ” Morrel shuddered, and looked at the man, 
who spoke with more assurance that he had hitherto shown. “ To 
questions frankly put,” said he, “ a straightforward answer should 
be given. Yes, I shall pay, if, as I hope, my vessels arrives 
safely ; for its arrival will again procure me the credit which the 
numerous accidents, of which I have been the victim, have de- 
prived me ; but if the Pharaoh should be lost, and this last re- 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO, 


I07 


source be gone ” The poor man’s eyes filled with wars. — — 

••Well,” said the other, “if this last resource fail you?” 

•• Well,” returned Morrel, “ it is a cruel thing to be forced to say, 
but, already used to misfortune, I must habituate myself to shame. 
I fear I shall be forced to suspend my payments.” 

“ What is that ? ” said the Englishman. “ What is the mean- 
ing of this noise ? ” 

“Oh! oh!” cried Morrel, turning pale, “what?*' A loud 
noise was heard on the stairs, of people moving hastily, and half- 
stifled sobs. Morrel rose and advanced to the door ; but his 
strength failed him, and he sank into a chair. The two men re- 
mained opposite one another. At this instant the second door 
opened, and the girl, her eyes bathed with tears, appeared. Mor- 
rel rose tremblingly, supporting himself by the arm of the chair. 
He would have spoken, but his voice failed him. “ Oh, father ! ” 
said she, clasping her hands, “ forgive your child for being the 
messenger of ill.” 

“The Pharaoh has then perished?” said Morrel in a hoarse 
voice. The girl did not speak ; but she nodded as she lay on her 
father’s breast. 

“ And the crew ? ” asked Morrel. 

“ Saved,” said the girl ; “ saved by the crew of the vessel that 
has just entered the harbor.” Morrel raised his two hands to 
heaven with an expression of resignation and sublime gratitude. 
“Thanks, my God,” said he, “at least Thou strikest but me 
alone.” Spite of his phlegm a tear moistened the eye of the Eng- 
lishman, as all went out, leaving him again with the merchant. 

“Well, sir,” said Morrel, sinking into a chair, “ you have heard 
all, and I have nothing further to tell you.” 

“ I see,” returned the Englishman, “ that you wish for time to 
pay?” 

“A delay would save my honor, and consequently my life.” 

“ How long a delay do you wish for ? ” Morrel reflected. “ Two 
months,” said he. 

“ I will give you three,” replied the stranger. “Well, renew 
these bills up to the 5th of September ; and on the 5th of Sep- 
tember, at eleven o’clock (the hand of the clock pointed to eleven), 
I shall come to receive the money.” “ I shall expect you,” re- 

turned Morrel : “ and I will pay you — or I shall be dead.” These 
last words were uttered in so low a tone, that the stranger could 
not hear them. The bills were renewed, the old ones destroyed, 
and the poor shipowner found himself with three months before 
him to collect his resources. The Englishman received his tl inks 
with the phlegm peculiar to his nation ; and Morrel, overwhelm- 
ing him with grateful blessings, conducted him to the staircase. 
The stranger met Julie on the stairs : she affected to be descend- 
ing, but in reality she was waiting for him. “Oh, sir ” said 

she, clasping her hand. 


io8 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CATS TO. 


“ Mademoiselle,” said the stranger, “ one day you will receive 
a letter signed ‘ Sinbad the Sailor.’ Do exactly what the letter 
bids you, however strange it may appear.” 

“ Yes, sir,” returned Julie. 

“It is well. Adieu ! Remain as pure and virtuous as you are 
at present, and I have great hopes that Heaven will reward you by 
giving you Emmanuel for a husband.” 

Julie uttered a faint cry, blushed like a rose, and leaned against 
the baluster, while the stranger waved his hand and went on down- 
stairs. 

In the yard he spied Penelon, boatswain of the Pharaoh, to 
whom he beckoned and said : 

“ Come with me, my man — I have business with you.” 

Penelon disappeared after this interview, and with him all the 
crew of the wreck. 

Thanks to the grace, Morrel kept his head above water until 
August. Then he went up to Paris to beg a loan of Danglars, 
who was worth millions and had unlimited credit. He would not 
help his old master to any extent, though even his word would 
have saved him. 

The ship-owner returned shamed by the repuke. 

The ladies guessed that they were in peril : they wrote to Nismcs 
where Julie’s brother was in the garrison to ask him over. Be- 
sides, Maximilian Morrel, though hardly two-and-twenty, had 
great influence over his father. He was a strong-minded, upright 
young man. At the time when he decided on his profession his 
father had no desire to choose for him, but had consulted young 
Maximilian’s taste. They had not mistaken the gravity of this 
event, for the moment after Morrel had entered his cabinet with 
Codes, Julie saw the latter leave it pale, trembling, and his feat- 
ures betraying the utmost consternation. She would have ques- 
tioned him as he passed by her, but the worthy creature hastened 
down the staircase with unusual precipitation, and only raised his 
hands to heaven and exclaimed, “Oh, what a dreadful misfor- 
tune ! Who could ever have believed it ! ” A moment after- 
wards Julie saw him go up-stairs carrying two or three heavy ledg- 
ers, a pocket-book, and a bag of money. 

Morrel examined the ledgers, opened the pocket-book, and 
counted the money. All his funds amounted to 6000 or 8000 
francs, his expectancies up to the 5th to 4000 or 5000, which, mak- 
ing the best of everything, gave him 14,000 francs to meet bills 
amounting to 287,500 francs. He could not make such a proposal. 

During the night, between the 4th and 5th of September, Mdme. 
Morrel remained listening for every sound, and, until three o’clock 
in the morning, she heard her husband pacing the room in great 
agitation. It was three o’clock when he threw himself on the bed. 
The mother and daughter passed the night together. They had 
expected Maximilian since the previous evening. At eight o’clock 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


I09 


In the morning Morrel entered their chamber. He was calm ; but 
the agitation of the night was legible in his pale and careworn 
visage. They did not dare to ask him how he had slept. Morrel 
was kinder to his wife, more affectionate to his daughter, than he 
had ever been. He could not cease gazing at and kissing the 
sweet girl. Julie, mindful of Emmanuel’s request, was following 
her father when he quitted the room, but he said to her sharply, — 
" Remain with your mother, dearest.” 

This was the first time Morrel had ever so spoken, but he said 
it in a tone of paternal kindness, and Julie did not dare refuse 
compliance. She remained at the same spot standing, mute and 
motionless. An instant afterwards the door opened, she felt arms 
encircle her, and a mouth pressed her forehead. She looked up, 
and uttered an exclamation of joy. 

“ Maximilian ! my dearest brother ! ” she eried. At these words 
Mdme. Morrel rose, and threw herself into her son’s arms. 
“Mother! ” said the young man, looking alternately at Mdme. 
Morrel and her daughter, “what has occurred — what has hap- 
pened ? your letter has frightened me, and I have come hither with 
all speed.” 

“Julie,” said Mdme. Morrel, making a sign to the young man, 
“go and tell your father that Maximilian has just arrived.” The 
young lady rushed out of the apartment, but on the first step of 
the staircase she found a man holding a letter in his hand. 

“Are you not Mdlle. Julie Morrel?” inquired the man, with a 
strong Italian accent. “Read this letter,” he said, handing it to 
her. It concerns the best interests of your father.” 

The girl hastily took the letter from him. She opened it quickly 
and read : 

“Go this moment to Median Alley, enter the house No. 15, ask 
the porter for the key of the room on the fifth floor, enter it, take 
from the mantelpiece a purse netted in red silk, and give it to your 
father. It is important that he should receive it before eleven 
o’clock. You promised to obey me implicitly. Remember your 
oath. “SlNBAD THE SAILOR.” 

Julie hesitated, and resolved to take counsel. Yet, by a singu- 
lar feeling, it was neither to her mother nor her brother that she 
applied, but to Emmanuel. She hastened down and told him 
what had occurred on the day when the agent of Thomson and 
French had come to her father’s, related the scene on the stair- 
case, repeated the promise she had made, and showed him the 
letter. “ You must go, then, mademoiselle. I will wait you at 
the corner and if you are so long absent as to make me uneasy, 
I will hasten and rejoin you, and woe to him of whom you shall 
have cause to complain to me ! ” 

“Then, Emmanuel,” said the young girl, with hesitation* “it 


iio 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


is your opinion that I should obey this invitation ? ” “ Yes. Did 

not the messenger say your father’s safety was in it? ” 

“But what danger threatens him, then, Emmanuel?” she 
asked. 

“ Why, if to-day before eleven o’clock your father has not 
found some one who will come to his aid, he will be compelled at 
twleve o’clock to declare himself a bankrupt.” 

“Oh, come, then, come ! ” cried she, hastening away with the 
young man. During this time Madame Morrel had told her son 
everything. He was thunderstruck. Then, rushing hastily out of 
the apartment, he ran up-stairs, expecting to find his father in his 
cabinet, but he rapped there in vain. Whilst he was yet at the door 
of the cabinet he heard the bedroom-door open, turned, and saw his 
father. Instead of going direct to his cabinet, M. Morrel had re- 
turned to his bedchamber, which he was only this moment quit- 
ting. Morrel uttered a cry of surprise at the sight of his son, of 
whose arrival he was ignorant. He remained motionless on the 
spot, pressing with his left hand something he had concealed un- 
der his coat. Maximilian sprang down the staircase, and threw 
his arms around his father’s neck ; but suddenly he recoiled, 
and placed his right hand on Morrel’ s breast. “ Father ! ” he 
exclaimed, turning pale as death, “ what are you going to do with 
the brace of pistols under you coat?” 

“ Maximilian,” replied Morrel, looking fixedly at his son, 
“you are a man, and a man of honor. Come, and I will explain to 
you.” 

And with a firm step Morrel went up to his cabinet, whilst Max- 
imilian followed him, trembling as he went. Morrel opened the 
door, and closed it behind his son ; then, crossing the ante-room, 
went to his desk, on which he placed the pistols, and pointed with 
his finger to an open ledger. In this ledger was made out an ex- 
act balance-sheet of affairs. Morrel had to pay, within half-an- 
hour, 287,500 francs. All he possessed was 1 5,257 francs “Read!” 
said Morrel. “ Blood washes out dishonor,” said Morrel. 

“You are right, father; I understand you.” Then extending 
his hand toward one of the pistols, he said, “ There is one for you 
and one for me — thanks!” Morrel checked his hand. “Your 
mother — your sister ! Who will support them? ” A shudder ran 
through the young man’s frame. “Father,” he said, “do you 
reflect that you are bidding me to live?” — -“Yes, I do bid you,” 
answered Morrel ; “ it is you duty. You have a calm, strong mind, 
Maximilian. Maximilian, you are no ordinary man. I desire 
netting — I command nothing ; I only say to you, examine my 
position as if it were your own, and then judge for yourself.” 

The young man reflected an instant, then an expression of sub- 
lime resignation appeared in his eyes, and with a slow and sad 
gesture he took off his two epaulettes, the marks of his rank. 
• f Be it so, then, my father,” he said, extending his hand to Mor- 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


Hi 


rel, “die in peace, my father ; I will live/' Morrel was about to 
cast himself on his knees before his son, but Maximilian caught 
him in his arms, and those two noble hearts were pressed against 
each other for a moment. “You know it is not my fault,” said 
Morrel. Maximilian smiled. “ I know, father you are the most 

honorable man I have ever known.” “Good, my son. And 

now all is said ; go now and rejoin your mother and sister.” 

“ My father,” said the young man, bending his knee, “bless 
me!” Morrel took his head between his hands, drew him toward 
him, and kissing his forehead several times, said, “Oh, ye?, 
yes, I bless you in my own name, and in the name of three genera- 
tions of irreproachable men, who say by my voice, ‘ The edifice 
which misfortune has destroyed, Providence may be build up 
again.' On seeing me die such a death, the most inexorable will have 
pity on you. Living, my best friends would avoid my house ; dead, 
all Marseilles will follow me in tears to my last home. Living, 
you would feel shame at my name ; dead, you may raise your head 
and say, 1 1 am the son of him you killed, because, for the first 
time, he has been compelled to fail in his word.' ” 

The young man uttered a groan, but appeared resigned. 

“ Have you no particular commands to leave with me, my 
father ? ” inquired Maximilian, in a faltering voice. 

“ The house of Thomson and French is the only one who, from 
humanity, or, it may be, selfishness — it is not for me to read men’s 
hearts — have had any pity for me. His agent, who will in ten 
miuutes present himself to receive the amount of a bill of 287,500 
francs, I will not say granted, but offered me three months. Let 

this house be the first repaid, my son, and respect this man,” 

“ Father, I will," said Maximilian. 

And he rushed out of the cabinet When his son had left him, 
Morrel fell back in his chair, his eyes fixed on the clock : there 
were seven minutes left, that was all. 

At this moment of mortal agony, a damp passed over his brow, 
an agony stronger than death clutched at his heart-strings. He 
heard the door of the staircase creak on its hinges — the clock 
gave its warning to strike eleven — the door of his cabinet opened ; 
Morrel did not turn round — he expected these words of Coclia, 
“The agent of Thomson and French.” 

He placed the muzzle of the pistol between his teeth. Suddenly 
he heard a cry— it was his daugher’s voice. He turned and saw 
Julie. The pistol fell from his hands. “My father! " cried the 
girl, out of breath, and half dead with joy — “saved! you are 
saved ! ” And she threw herself into his arms, holding in her «3&amp; 
tended hand a red netted silk purse. 

“ Saved ! my child ! " said Morrel ; “ what do you mean i? 5# 

“ Yes, saved— saved ! see, see ! " said she. 

Morrel took the purse, and started as he did so, for a vague re* 
nnembrance reminded him that it once belonged to himself, fa 


i 12 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


one end was the bill for the 287,500 francs receipted, and at the 
other end was a diamond as large as a hazel-nut, with these words 
on a small slip of parchment : 

“Julie’s Dowry.” 

Morrel passed his hand over his brow ; it seemed to him a 
dream. At this moment the clock struck eleven. The sound vi- 
brated as if each stroke of the hammer struck on Morrel’ s heart. 
“ Explain, my child,” he said, “ explain — where did you find this 
purse ? ” 

“In a house in Median Alley, on the corner of a mantel piece 
in a small room on the fifth floor. 

“ But,” cried Morrel, “ this purse is not yours ! ” Julie handed 
to her father the letter she had received in the morning. 

“And did you go alone? ” asked Morrel, after he had read 
it. 

“ Emmanuel accompanied me, father. He was to have waited 
for me at the corner of the Rue de Musee, but, strange to say, he 

was not there when I returned.” “ M. Morrel! ” exclaimed a 

voice on the stairs — 

“It is his voice ! ” said Julie. At this moment Emmanuel en- 
tered his countenance full of animation and joy. “The Pharaoh ! ’ * 
he cried, “they signal the Pharaoh! The Pharaoh is coming up 
the harbor ! ” Morrel fell back in his chair, his strength was fail- 
ing him ; his understanding, weakened by such events, refused to 
comprehend such incredible, unheard, fabulous facts. But his son 
came in. “Father!” cried Maximilian, “how could you say 
the Pharoah was lost ? The watch-tower has signalled her, and 
they say she is now coming into port.” 

“ My dear friends ! ” said Morrel, “ if this were so, it must be a 
miracle of Heaven ! Impossible ! impossible ! ” 

But what was real and not less incredible was the purse he held 
in his hand, the acceptance receipted — the splendid diamond. 

“Ah! sir,” exclaimed Codes, “what can it mean? — the 
Phamehl" 

“ Come, my dear,” said Morrel, rising from his seat, “ let us go 
and see, and Heaven have pity upon us if it be false intelligence !” 
They all went out, and on the stairs met Mdme Morrel, who 
had been afraid to go up into the cabinet. In an instant they were 
at the pier. All the crowd gave way before Morrel. “ The Pha- 
raoh! the Pharaoh ! ” said every voice. 

And, wonderful to say, in front of the tower of Saint- Jean, was a 
ship bearing on her stern these words, painted in white letters, 
“The Pharaoh , Morrel and Son, of Marseilles.” It was precisely 
resembling the other Pharaoh , and loaded, as that had been, with 
cochineal and indigo. It cast anchor, brailed all sails, and on the 
deck was Captain Gaumard giving orders, and Boatswain Peneloc 


HE COUNT OE MONTE CAYS TO. 


113 


making signals to M. Morrel. To doubt any longer was impossi- 
ole ; there was the evidence of the senses, and ten thousand per- 
sons who came to corroborate the testimony. As Morrel and his 
son embraced on the pier-head, in the presence and applause of 
the whole city witnessing this prodigy, a man with his face half- 
covered by a black beard, and who, concealed behind the sentry- 
box, watched the scene with delight, uttered these words in a low 
tone, “ Be happy, noble heart, be blessed for all the good thou 
hast done and wilt do hereafter, and let my gratitude rest in the 
shade with your kindness.” 

And with a smile in which joy and happiness were revealed, he 
left his hiding-place, and without being observed, descended one 
of those flights of steps which serve for debarkation, and shouted 
“Jacopo ! ” Then a gig came to shore, took him on board, and 
conveyed him to a yacht splendidly fitted up, on whose deck he 
sprung with the activity of a sailor ; thence he once again looked 
toward Morrel, who, weeping with joy, was shaking hands most 
cordially with all the crowd around him, and thanking with a look 
the unknown benefactor whom he seemed to be seeking in the 
skies. “And now,” said the unknown, “ farewell kindness, hu- 
manity, and gratitude! Farewell to all the feelings that expand 
the heart! I have been Heaven’s substitute to recompense the 
good — now the god of vengeance yields to me his power to punish 
the wicked! ” At these words he gave a signal, and, as if only 
awaiting this signal, the yacht instantly put out to sea. 


CHAPTER XVIII. 

SINBAD THE SAILOR. 

Towards the commencement of the year 1838, two young gen- 
tlemen belonging to the first society cf Paris, Viscount Albert de 
Morcerf and Baron Franz d’Epinay, were at Florence. They had 
agreed to see the Carnival at Rome that year, and that Franz, 
who for the last three or four years had inhabited Italy, should 
act as cicero 7 ie to Albert. They wrote to Pastrini, the proprietor 
of the Hotel de Londres, to reserve comfortable apartments for 
them. Pastrini replied that he had only two rooms and a cabinet, 
which he offered at the low charge of a louis per diem. They ac- 
cepted his offer ; but wishing to make the best use of the time that 
was left, Albert started for Naples. As for Franz, he remained at 
Florence. After having passed several days here, he took a fancy 
into his head, after having already visited Corsica, the cradle of 
Bonaparte, to visit Elba, the halting-place of Napoleon. 

One evening he cast off a barque from the iron ring that secured 
it to the port of Leghorn, laid himself down, wrapped in his cloak. 


U4 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRN TO. 


at the bottom, and said to the crew, — “To the isle of Elba i 
The barque shot out of the harbor like a bird, and the next morn* 
ing Franz disembarked at Porto Ferrajo, He traversed theisland t 
after having followed the traces which the footsteps of the giant 
have left, and re-embarked for Marciana. Two hours after he 
again landed at Pianosa, where he was assured red partridges 
abounded. The sport was bad ; Franz only succeeded in killing 
a few partridges, and, like every unsuccessful sportsman, he re- 
turned to the boat very much out of temper. “ Ah, if your excel- 
lency chose,” said the captain, “ you might have capital sport on 
the island of Monte-Cristo.” 

“ But I have no permission to shoot over this island.” 

“ Your excellency does not require a permission, for the island 
is uninhabited. It is a mass of rocks, and does not contain an 
acre of land capable of cultivation.” 

“ What game shall I find there ? ” “ Thousands of wildgoats.” 

“ Where can I sleep ? ” 

“ On shore, in the caves, or on board in your cloak : besides, 
i your excellency pleases, we can leave as soon as the chase is 
finished — we can sail as well by night as by day, and if the wind 
drops we can use our oars.” 

As Franz had sufficient time, and besides had no longer his 
apartments at Rome to seek after, he accepted the proposition. 

The captain gave his orders, the helm was put up, and the 
barque was soon sailing in the direction of the island. 

The wind blew strongly, the barque sailed six or seven knots an 
hour and they were within fifteen miles of Monte-Cristo when the 
sun began to set ; half an hour after, and the night was quite 
dark. 

Suddenly, a great light appeared on the strand ; land might 
resemble a cloud, but the fire was not a meteor. " What is this 
light? ” asked he. 

“ Silence ! ” said the captain ; “ it is a fire.” 

“ But you told me the isle was uninhabited ? ” 

“ I said there was no fixed habitations on it, but I said also that 
it served sometimes as a harbor for smugglers.” 

“ And for pirates ? ” -“ And for pirates,” returned Gaetano s 

repeating Franz’s words. 

“You think, then, that this fire announces unwelcome neigh® 
bors ? ’ ’ 

“ That is what we must ascertain,” returned Gaetano. 

Gaetano consulted with his companions, and after five minutes* 
discussion a manoeuvre was executed which caused the vessel to 
rapidly approach the isle, and was soon within fifty paces of it. 
Gaetano lowered the sail, and the barque remained stationary. 

The captain had thrown oft his vest and shirt, and secured his 
trousers round his waist ; his feet were naked, so he had no shoes 
and stockings to take off ; after these preparations he placed his 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


M5 

fingef on his lips, and lowering himself noiselessly into the sea, 
swam towards the shore with such precaution that it was impossi- 
ble to hear the slightest sound ; he could only be traced by the 
phosphorescent line in his wake. This track soon disappeared ; 
it was evident that he had touched the shore. Every one on 
board remained motionless during half an hour, when the same 
luminous track was again observed, and in two strokes he had re- 
gained the barque. 

“ Well ! ” exclaimed Franz and the sailors altogether. 

“They are Spanish smugglers,” said he; “they have with 

them two Corsican bandits.” “ And what are these Corsican 

bandits doing here with Spanish smugglers ? ” 

“ Alas ! ” returned the captain, with an accent of the most pro- 
found pity, “we ought always to help one another. Very often 
the bandits are hard pressed by gendarmes or carabineers ; well, 
they see a barque, and good fellows like us on board, they come 
and demand hospitality of us ; you can’t refuse help to a poor 
hunted devil ; we receive them, and for greater security we stand 
out to sea. This costs us nothing, and saves the life, or at least 
the liberty, of a fellow-creature, who on the first occasion returns 
the service by pointing out some safe spot where we can land our 
goods without interruption.” 

“Ah!” said Franz, “then you are a smuggler occasionally, 
Gaetano?” “Your excellency, we must live somehow,” re- 

turned the other, smiling in a way impossible to describe. 

“Then you know the men who are now on Monte-Cristo ? ” 

“ Oh, yes, we sailors are like freemasons, and recognize each 

other by signs.” 

“ And do you think we have nothing to fear if we land? ” 

“ Nothing at all ! ” 

“ Then, for the last time, steer to Monte-Cristo.” 

Through the darkness Franz, whose eyes were now accustomed 
to it, distinguished the granite giant by which the barque was 
sailing, and then, turning an angle of the rock, he saw the fire 
more brilliant than ever, round which five or six persons were 
seated. . The blaze illumined the sea for a hundred paces round. 
Gaetano skirted the light, carefully keeping the barque out of its 
rays ; then, when they were opposite the fire, he entered into the 
] centre of the circle, singing a fishing song, of which his compan- 
1 ions sung the chorus. At the first words of the song, the men seated 
round the fire rose and approached the landing-place, their eyes 
fixed on the barque, of which they evidently sought to judge the 
force and divine the intention. They soon appeared satisfied and 
returned (with the exception of one, who remained on the shore) 
to their fire, at which a whole goat was roasting. When the barque 
was within twenty paces of the shore, the man on the beach made 
with his carbine the movement of a sentinel who sees a patrol, and 
cried, “Who goes there I’’ in Sardinian. Franz coolly cocked 


u6 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


both barrels. Gaetano then exchanged a few words with thi$ 
man, wmcn the traveler did not understand, but which evidently 
concerned him. “ Will your excellency give your name, or re- 
main incognito ?" asked the captain. 

“My name must rest unknown, — merely say I am a Frenchman 
traveling tor pleasure." As soon as Gaetano had transmitted this 
answer, the sentinel gave an order to one of the men seated round 
the fire, who rose and disappeared among the rocks. Not a word 
was spoken, every one seemed occupied, Frantz with his disem- 
barkment, the sailors with their sails, tne smugglers with their goat ; 
but in the midst of all this carelessness it was evident that they 
mutually observed each other. The man who had disappeared 
returned suddenly, on the opposite side to that by which he 
had left ; he made a sign with his head to the sentinel, who, 
turning to the barque, uttered these words, 44 S' accomodi." 
The sailors did not wait for a second invite don ; four strokes of 
the oar brought them to the land ; Gaetano sprang to shore, ex- 
changed a few words with the sentinel, then his comrades 
descended, and lastly came Franz’s turn. One of his guns was 
swung over his shoulder, Gaetano had the other, and a sailor held 
his rifle ; his dress, half artist, half dandy, did not excite any sus- 
picion, and, consequently, no disquietude. The barque was 
moored to the shore, and they advanced a few paces to find a 
comfortable bivouac ; but, doubtless, the spot they chose did not 
suit the smuggler who filled the post of sentinel, for he cried out, 
“ Not that way, if you please." 

Gaetano faltered an excuse, and advanced to the opposite side, 
whilst two sailors kindled torches at the fire to light them on their 
way. They advanced about thirty paces, and then stopped at a 
small esplanade, surrounded with rocks, in which seats had been 
cut, not unlike sentry-boxes. Around in the crevices of the rocks 
grew a few dwarf oaks and thick bushes of myrtles. Franz 
lowered a torch, and saw, by the light of a mass of cinders, that 
he was not the first to discover this retreat, which was, doubtless, 
one of the halting-places of the wandering visitors of Monte- 
Cristo. As for his anticipation of events, once on terra firma t 
once that he had seen the indifferent, if not friendly, appearance 
of his hosts, his pre-occupation had disappeared, or rather, at 
sight of the goat, had turned to appetite. He mentioned this to 
Gaetano, who replied that nothing could be more easy than to 
prepare a supper when they had in their boat bread, wine, half-a- 
dozen partridges, and a good fire to roast them by. 14 Besides," 
added he, 44 if the smell of their roast meat tempts you, I will go 
and offer them two of our birds for a slice." 

“You seem born for negotiation," returned Franz; “go and 
try." 

^During this time the sailors had collected dried sticks and 
^^nches, with which they made a fire. Franz waited impatiently. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


Ii; 

smelling the odor of the goat, when the captain returned with a 

mysterious air. Well,” said Franz, “anything new? — do 

they refuse?” “On the contrary,” returned Gaetano, “the 

chief was told you were a Frenchman, and invites you to sup with 
him.” 

“Well,” observed Franz, “this chief is very polite, and I see 
no objection — the more so as I bring my share of the supper.” 

“ Oh, it is not that — he has plenty, and to spare, for supper ; but 
he attaches a singular condition to your presentation at his 
house.” 

“ Ilis house ! has he built one here, then ? ” 

“No, but he has a very comfortable one, all the same, so they 
say.” 

“You know this chief, then? ” “ I have heard talk of him.* 

“ 111 or well?” 

“Both.” 

“ The devil ! — and what is this condition ? ” 

^That you are blindfolded, and do not takeoff the bandage 
until he himself bids you.” Franz looked at Gaetano, to see, if 
possible, what he thought of this proposal. 

“ What should you do in my place ? ” 

“I, who have nothing to lose, I should go.” 

“You would accept? ” 

“ Yes, were it only out of curiosity.” 

“ There is something very curious about this chief, then? ” 

“ Listen,” said Gaetano, lowering his voice, “ I do not know if 

what they say is true ” He stopped to look if any one was 

near. 

“ What do they say ? ” 

“ That this chief inhabits a cavern to which the Pitti Palace is 
nothing.” 

“ What nonsense! ” said Franz, reseating himself. 

“ It is no nonsense ; it is quite true. I know their yacht ” 

“ And if this person be not a smuggler, who is he ? ” 

“ A wealthy signor, who travels for his pleasure.” 

“ What is his name ? ” 

“If you ask him he says Sinbad the Sailor; but I doubt its 
being his real name.” 

“ Have you ever seen him? ” “ Sometimes.” 

“ What sort of a man is he ? ” “ Your excellency will judge 

for yourself.” 

“ Where will he receive me ? ” 

“ No doubt in the subterranean palace Gaetano told you of.” 

“ His excellency waits for you,” said a voice, which he recog- 
nized as the sentinel’s. He was accompanied by two of the 
yacht’s crew. Franz drew his handkerehief from his pocket, and 
presented it to the man who had spoken to him. Without uttering 
a word, they bandaged his eyes with a care that showed their 


1 1 8 


THE COUNT OF MONTE C/US TO. 


apprehensions of his committing some indiscretion. Afterwards 
he was made to promise he would not make the least attempt to 
raise the bandage. He promised. Then his two guides took his 
arms, and he advanced, guided by them, and preceded by the 
sentinel. Presently, by a change in the atmosphere, he compre- 
hended that they were entering a cave ; after going on for a few 
seconds more he heard a crackling, and it seemed to him as 
though the atmosphere again changed, and became balmy and 
perfumed. At length his feet touched on a thick and soft 
carpet, and his guides let go their hold of him. There was a mo- 
ment’s silence, and then a voice, in excellent French, although 
with a foreign accent, said : “ Welcome, sir. I beg you will re- 
move your bandage.” It may be supposed, then, Franz did not 
wait for a repetition of this permission, but took off the handker- 
chief, and found himself in the presence of a man, from thirty- 
eight to forty years of age, dressed in Tunisian costume. Al- 
though of a paleness almost livid, this man had a remarkably 
handsome face. 

This pallor was so peculiar, that it seemed as though it were 
that which would be exhibited by a man enclosed for a long 
time in a tomb, and unable to resume the healthy glow and hue 
of the living. He was not particularly tall, but extremely well 
made, and, like the men of the south, had small hands and feet. 
But what astonished Franz, who treated Gaetano’s description as 
a fable, was the splendor of the apartment. The host gave Franz 
time for his surprise, and, moreover, rendered him look for look, 
not even taking his eyes off him. “ Sir,” he said after some 
pause, “ a thousand excuses for the precaution taken in your in- 
troduction hither ; but as, during the greater portion of the year, 
this island is deserted, if the secret of this abode were discovered, 
I should, doubtless, find on my return my temporary retirement in 
a state of great disorder, which would be exceedingly annoying, 
not for the loss it occasioned me, but because I should not have 
the certainty I now possess of Separating myself from all the rest 
of mankind at pleasure. Let me now endeavor to make you for- 
get this temporary unpleasantness, and offer you what no doubt 
you did not expect to find here— that is to say, a tolerable supper 
and pretty comfortable beds. But such as is my hermitage, it is 
at your disposal ; such as is my supper, it is yours to share, if you 
will. Ali, is the supper ready?” At this moment the tapestry 
moved aside, and a Nubian, black as ebony, and dressed in a 
plain white tunic, made a sign to his master that all was prepared. 
“ Now,” said the unknown to Franz, “ I do not know if you are 
of my opinion, but I think nothing is more annoying than to re- 
main two or three hours without knowing by name how to address 
one another. Pray observe, that I too much respect the laws of 
hospitality to ask your name or title. I only request you to give 
me one by which I may have the pleasure of addressing you. As 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 119 

/or myself, that I may put you at your ease, I tell you that I am 
generally called * Sinbad the Sailor.’ ” 

“And I,” replied Franz, “will tell you, as I only require his 
wonderful lamp to make me precisely like Aladdin, that I see no 
reason why at this moment I should not be called Aladdin. That 
will keep us from going away from the East, whither I am tempted 

to think I have been conveyed by some good genius.” “ Well, 

then, Signor Aladdin,” replied the singular Amphitryon, “you 
heard our repast announced ; will you now take the trouble to 
enter the dining-room, your humble servant going first to show 
the way?” At these words, moving aside the tapestry, Sinbad 
preceded his guest. Franz proceeded from one enchantment to 
another ; the table was splendidly covered, and once convinced 
of this important point, he cast his eyes around him. The hall was 
scarcely less striking than the boudoir he had just left ; it was 
entirely of marble. The supper consisted of a roast pheasant, 
garnished with Corsican blackbirds ; a boar’s ham, a quarter of a 
kid, a glorious turbot, and a gigantic lobster. Between these large 
dishes were smaller ones containing various dainties. The dishes 
were of silver, and the plates of Japanese china. 

Franz rubbed his eyes in order to assure himself that this was 
not a dream. Ali alone was present to wait at table, and ac- 
quitted himself so admirably, that the guest complimented his 
host thereupon. “ Yes,” replied he, whilst he did the honors of 
the supper with much ease and grace — “ yes, he is a poor devil 
who is much devoted to me, and does all he can to prove it. He 
remembers I saved his life, and as he has a regard for his head, 
he feels some gratitude towards me for having kept it on his 
shoulders.” Ali approached his master, took his hand, and 
kissed it. 

“ And like the celebrated sailor whose name you have assumed,” 
he said, by way of changing the conversation, “ you pass your life 

in traveling? ” “ Yes. I made a vow at a time when I little 

thought I should ever be able to accomplish it,” said the unknown, 
with a singular smile ; “ and I made some others also, which I 
hope I may fulfil in due season.” Although Sinbad pronounced 
these words with much calmness, his eyes darted gleams of singu- 
lar ferocity. 

“You have suffered a great deal, sir? ” said Franz, inquiringly. 

Sinbad started and looked fixedly at him, as he replied, “ What 

makes you suppose so? ” “ Everything! ” answered Franz, — 

“ your voice, your look, your pallid complexion, and even the life 
you lead, you seem to me like a man who, persecuted by society, 

has a fearful account to settle with it.” “Ah!” responded 

Sinbad, laughing with his singular laugh, which displayed his 
sharp teeth. “You have not guessed rightly ! Such as you see 
me I am, a sort of philosopher, and one day perhaps I shall go to 
Paris to rival your philanthropists.” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


iss 

44 And Will that be the first time you ever took that journey ? 99 

44 Yes, it will ! I must seem to you by no means curious, but I 
assure you that it is not my fault I .have delayed it so long — it will 
happen one day or the other." 

44 I should like to be there at the time you come, and I will 
endeavor to repay you, as far as lies in my power, for your liberal 
hospitality displayed to me at Monte-Cristo.” 

, 41 1 should avail myself to your offer with pleasure,’* replied the 

host, “but, unfortunately, if I go there, it will be, in all proba- 
bility, incognito.’* 

The supper appeared to have been supplied solely for Franz, for 
the unknown scracely touched one or two dishes of the splendid 
banquet to which his guest did ample justice. Then Ali brought 
on the dessert, or rather took the basket from the hands of statues 
and placed them on the table. Between the two baskets he placed 
a small silver cup, closed with a lid of the same. The cafe with 
which Ali placed this cup on the table roused Franz’s curiosity. 
He raised the lid and saw a kind of greenish paste, something like 
preserved angelica, but which was perfectly unknown to him. He 
replaced the lid, as ignorant of what the cup contained as he was 
before he had looked at it, and then casting his eyes towards hi* 
host he saw him smile at his disappointment. 44 You cannot, 
guess,” said he, 44 what there is in that small vase, can you ? ” 

44 No, I really cannot.’* 

44 Well, then, that kind of green preserve is nothing less than 
the ambrosia which Hebe served at the table of Jupiter. Are you. 
a man for the substantials, and is gold your god ? taste this, and 
the mines of Peru, Guzerat, and Golconda are open to you. Are 
you a man of imagination — a poet? taste this, and the boundaries 
of possibility disappear ; the fields of infinite space open to you, 
you advance free in heart, free in mind, into the boundless realms 
of unfettered reverie. Is it not tempting what I offer you, and is it 
not an easy thing, since it is only to do thus ? look ! *’ At these 
words he uncovered the small cup, took a tea-spoonful of the magic 
marmalade, raised it to his lips, and swallowed it slowly, with his 
eyes half shut and his head bent backwards. Franz did not dis- 
turb him whilst he absorbed his favorite, but when he had finished, 
he inquired, — 44 What, then, is this precious stuff? ** 

44 Did you ever hear,” he replied, 44 of the Old Man of the 
Mountain, who attempted to assassinate Philip Augustus ? He 
reigned over a rich valley which was overhung by the mountain 
whence he derived his picturesque name. In this valley were 
magnificent gardens planted by Hassen-ben-Sabah, and in these 
gardens isolated pavilions. Into these pavilions he admitted the 
elect ; and there, says Marco Polo, gave them to eat a certain 
herb, which transported them to Paradise, in the midst of ever- 
blooming shrubs, ever-ripe fruit, and ever-lovely virgins* M 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


121 


" Then,” cried Franz, "it is hasheesh ! I know that — by name 
^t least.” 

" That is it precisely, Signor Aladdin ; it is — the purest and most 
unadulterated of Alexandria, — the fhang of Abou-Gor, the cele- 
brated maker, the only man, the man to whom there should be 
built a palace, inscribed with these words, * A grateful world to 
the dealer in happiness ' ” 

" Do you know,” said Franz, “ I have a very great inclination 
to judge for myself of the truth or exaggeration of your eulogies.” 

" Judge for yourself, Signor Aladdin — taste, guest of mine — taste 
the hasheesh ! ” 

Franz’s only reply was to take a tea-spoonful of the marvellous 
preparation, about as much in quantity as his host had eaten, and 
lift it to his mouth. 

" I do not know if the result will be as agreeable as you de- 
scribe, but the thing does not appear to me as succulent as you 
say.” 

" Because your palate has not yet attained the sublimity of the 
substances it flavors. Only eat for a week, and nothing in the 
world will seem to you to equal the delicacy of its flavor, which 
now appears to you sleepy and distasteful. Let us now go into the 
chamber beside you, which is your apartment, and Ali will bring 
us coffee and pipes.” They both arose, and whilst he who called 
himself Sinbad, — gave some orders to the servant, Franz entered 
the adjoining apartment. It was simply yet richly furnished. It 
was round, and a large divan completely encircled it. Skins were 
strewn in profusion one on the other, so that it seemed like walk- 
ing over the most mossy turf, or reclining on the most luxurious 
bed. Both laid themselves down on the divan ; chibooques with 
jasmine tubes and amber mouthpieces were within reach, and all 
prepared so that there was no need to smoke the same pipe twice. 
Each of them took one, which Ali lighted, and then retired to pre- 
pare the coffee. There was a moment's silence. Ali brought in 
the coffee. "How do you take it?” inquired the unknown; 
strong or weak, sugar or none, with milk, cool or boiling ? As you 

please ; it is ready in all ways.” " I will take it a la Turque ,” 

replied Franz. 

"And you are right,” said his host; "it shows you have a 
tendency for an Oriental life. Ah ! those Orientals ; they are the 
only men who know how to live. As for me,” he added, with one 
of those Singular smiles which did not escape the young man, 
" when I have completed my affairs in Paris, I shall go and die in 
the East ; and should you wish to see me again, you must seek me 
at Cairo, Bagdad, or Ispahan.” 

" Faith ! ” said Franz, "it would be the easiest thing in the 
world ; for I feel eagle’s wings springing out at my shoulders, and 
with these wings I could make a tour of the world in four-and* 
twenty hours.” 


122 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


9t Ah! ah ! it is the thang operating. Well, unfurl your wings, 
and fly into superhuman regions ; fear nothing, there is a watch ovet 
you ; and if your wings, like those of Icarus, melt before the sun, 
we are here to receive you.” He then said some Arabian words 
to Ali, who made a sign of obedience and withdrew, but not to any 
distance. As to Franz, a strange transformation had taken place 
in him. All the bodily fatigue of the day, all the pre-occupation 
of mind which the events of the evening had brought on, disap- 
peared. With his eyes closed upon all nature his senses awoke 
to impassable impressions, and he was under the painful yet de- 
licious enthralment produced by the hasheesh, whose enchantment 
had brought up marvellous and thrilling visions. 

When Franz returned to himself, exterior objects seemed a 
second portion of his dream. He found that he was in a grotto, 
went towards the opening, and through a kind of fanlight saw a 
blue sea and an azure sky. The air and water were shining in the 
beams of the morning sun ; on the shore sailors were sitting, chat- 
ting and laughing ; and at ten yards from them the bark was at 
anchor, dancing gracefully on the water. Remembrance became 
busy again in his memory. He recalled his arrival on the island, 
his presentation to a smuggler chief, a subterranean palace full of 
splendor, an excellent supper, and a spoonful of hasheesh. It 
seemed, however, even in the very face of open day, that at least 
a year had elapsed since all these things had passed, so deep was 
the impression made in his mind by the dream, and so strong a 
hold had it taken of his imagination. Thus every now and then 
his fancy placed amidst the sailors, seated on a rock, or saw un» 
dulating in the vessel, one of those shadows which had shared his 
dreams with their looks and their kisses. Otherwise, his head was 
perfectly clear, and his limbs entirely reposed ; he was free from 
the slighest headache ; on the contary, he felt a certain degree of 
lightness, a faculty of absorbing the pure air, and enjoying the 
bright sunshine more vividly than ever. 

He went gaily up to the sailors, who rose as soon as they per- 
ceived him ; and the patron, accosting him, said, “ Signor Sinbad 
has left his compliments for your excellency, and desires us to ex- 
press the regret he feels at not being able to take his leave in per- 
son ; but he trusts you will excuse him, as very important business 
calls him to Malaga.” 

Gaetano pointed in a direction in which a small vessel was mak- 
ing sail towards the southern point of Corsica. Franz adjusted his 
telescope, and directed it toward the bark. Gaetano was not mis- 
taken. At the stern the mysterious stranger was standing up, look- 
ing toward the shore, and holding a spy-glass in his hand. He was 
attired as he had been on the previous evening, and waved his 
pocket-handkerchief to his guest in token of adieu. Franz re- 
turned the salute by shaking his handkerchief as an exchange of 
signals. After a second, a slight cloud of smoke was seen at the 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


123 


item of the vessel, which rose gracefully as it expanded in the air, 
and then Franz heard a slight report, “ There, do you hear? ” 
observed Gaetano ; “ he is bidding you adieu.” The young man 
took his carbine and fired it in the air, but without any idea that 
the noise could be heard at the distance which separated the yacht 
from the shore. 

Then he lost two hours in his attempts to find the cave, which 
were utterly useless. At the end of this time he gave up his re- 
search, and Gaetano smiled. 

When Franz appeared again on the shore, the yacht only seem- 
ed like a small white speck on the horizon. He looked again 
through his glass, but even then he could not distinguish any- 
thing. Gaetano reminded him that he had come for the purpose 
of shooting goats, which he had utterly forgotten. He took his 
fowling-piece, and began to hunt over the isle with the air of a 
man who is fulfilling a duty, rather than enjoying a pleasure ; and 
at the end of a quarter of an hour he had killed a goat and two 
kids. These animals, though wild and agile as chamois, were too 
much like domestic goats, and Franz could not consider them as 
game. Moreover, other ideas, much more powerful, occupied his 
mind, Sitting on the spot where he was on the previous evening 
when his mysterious host had invited him to supper, he saw the 
little yacht, row like a sea-gull on the wave, continuing her flight 
towards Corsica. 44 Why,” he remarked to Gaetano, 44 you told 
me that Signor Sinbad was going to Malaga, whilst it seems he is 
in the direction of Porto-Vecchio.” 

44 Don't you remember,” said the patron, 44 among the crew there 
were two Corsican brigands ; he is going to land them.” 44 Ah ! he 
is an individual who fears neither God nor devil, they say, and 
would at any time run fifty leagues out of his course to do a poor 
devil a service.” 

44 But such services as these might involve him with the 
authorities of the country in which he practises this kind of phil- 
anthropy,” said Franz. 

44 And what cares he for that,” replied Gaetano with a laugh, 
44 or any authorities? He smiles at them. Let them try to pursue 
him ! why, in the first place, his yacht is not a ship, but a bird, 
and he would beat any frigate three knots in every nine ; and if 
he were to throw himself on the coast, why, ain’t he certain of 
finding friends everywhere ? ” 

It was perfectly clear thatthe Signor Sinbad, Franz’s host, had the 
honor of being on excellent terms with the smugglers and bandits 
along the whole coast of the Mediterranean, which placed him 
in a position singular enough. As to Franz, he- had no longer 
any inducement to remain at Monte-Cristo. He had lost 
all hope of detecting the secret of the grotto ; he consequently 
despatched his breakfast, and, his bark being ready, he hastened 
on board, and they were soon under way. Next morning, when 


124 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


the sun rose, they had lost sight of Monte-Cristo* When Fran* 
had once again set foot on shore, he forgot, for the moment at 
least, the events which had just passed, whilst he finished his affairs 
of pleasure at Florence, and then thought of nothing but to r^oin 
his companion, awaiting him at Rome, 


CHAPTER XIX. 

ROMAN BANDITTI. 

An apartment, as we have said had been retained beforehand, 
and thus he had but to go to the hotel. But this was not so easy 
a matter, for the streets were thronged with people, and Rome was 
already a prey to that low and feverish murmur which precedes 
all great events ; and at Rome there are four great events in 
every year — the Carnival, the Holy Week, the Fete Dieu, and the 
St. Peter, The apartment consisted of two small rooms and a 
closet. The two rooms looked on to the street— a fact which 
Pastrini commented upon as an inappreciable advantage. The 
remainder of the story was hired by a very rich gentleman, who 
was supposed to be a Sicilian or Maltese ; but the host was un- 
able to decide to which of the two nations the traveler belonged. 
•‘Very good, Maitre Pastrini,” said Franz; “but we must have 
some supper instantly, and a carriage for to-morrow and the 
following days.” 

“ Be easy, my dear boy ; they will come in due season ; it is 
only a question of how much be charged for them,” Morcerf 
then, with that delighted philosophy which believes that nothing is 
impossible to a full purse and well-lined pocket-book, supped, 
went to bed, slept soundly, and dreamed he was racing all over 
Rome at Carnival time in a coach with six horses. 

The next morning Franz woke first, and instantly rang the bell* 
The sound had not yet died away when Pastrini himself en- 
tered. 

“Well, excellency,” said the landlord, triumphantly, and with- 
out waiting for Franz to question him, “ I feared yesterday, when 
I would not promise you anything, that you were too late— there 
is not a single carriage to be had — that is, from Sunday to Tues- 
day evening, but from now till Sunday you can have fifty if you 
please.” 

“Ah! that is something,” said Albert; “ to-day is Thursday, 
and who knows what may arrive between this and Sunday ? ” 

“ Ten or twelve thousand travelers will arrive,” replied Frantz, 
-• which will make it still more difficult.” 

“My friend,” said Morcerf, “let us eqjoy the present without 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 12$ 

gloomy forebodings for the future.” 11 At least we can have a 

window ? ’ ’ 

“Ah, a window i ” exclaimed Pastrini, — “utterly impossible , 
there was only one left on the fifth floor of the Doria Palace, and 
that has been let to a Russian prince for twenty sequins a day.” 

The two young men looked at each other with an air of stupe- 
faction. 

“ Well,” said Franz to Albert, “ do you know what is the best 
thing we can do? It is to pass the Carnival at Venice ; there we' 
are sure of obtaining gondolas if we cannot have carriages.” 

“ Ah ! the devil 1 no,” cried Albert ; “ I came to Rome to see 
the Carnival, and I will, though I see it on stilts.” 

“Bravo! an excellent idea! We will disguise ourselves as 
monster clowns and we shall have complete success.” 

“ Do your excellencies still wish for a carriage from now to 
Sunday morning ? ” “I will do all I can, and I hope you will be 
satisfied.” 

“ And now we understand each other.” 

“When do you wish the carriage to be here?” “In an 

hour.” 

“ In an hour it will bt at the door.” 

An hour after the vehicle was at the door ; it was a hack con- 
veyance which was elevated to the rank of a private carriage in 
honor of the occasion ; but, in spite of its humble exterior, the 
young men would have thought themselves happy to have secured 
it for the last three days of the Carnival. 

Franz and Albert descended; the carriage approached the 
palace ; their excellencies stretched their legs along the seats : the 
the cicerone sprang into the seat behind. But Albert did not 
know that it takes a day to see Saint Peter’s, and a month to 
study it. The day was passed at Saint Peter’s alone. Suddenly 
the daylight began to fade away; Franz took out his watch — it 
was half-past four. They returned to the hotel ; at the door 
Franz ordered the coachman to be ready at eight. He wished to 
show Albert the Colosseum by moonlight, as he had shown him 
St. Peter’s by daylight. When we show a friend a city one has 
already visited, we feel the same pride as when we point out a 
woman whose lover we have been. He was to leave the city by 
the Porta del Popolo, skirt the outer wall, and re-enter by the 
Porta San Giovanni ; thus they would behold the Colosseum 
without being in some measure prepared by the sight of tbs 
Capitol, the Forum, the Arch of Septimus Severus, the Temple 
of Antonius and Faustina, and the Via Sacra. They sat down to 
dinner. Maitre Pastrini had promised them a banquet ; he gave 
them a tolerable repast. At the end of the dinner he enterec in 
person. Franz concluded he came to hear his dinner praised, 
and began accordingly, but at the first words he interrupted him. 
u Excellency,” said he, “ I am delighted to have your approbate 


126 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


tion, but it was not for that I came.” “ Did you come to tell 

us you have procured a carriage ? M asked Albert, lighting bis 
cigar. 

“ No ; and your excellencies will do well not to think of that 
any longer : at Rome things can or cannot be done ; when you are 
told anything cannot be done, there is an end of it. You intend 
visiting II Co/osseo." 

“ You mean the Colosseum ? ” 

“It is the same thing. You have told your coachman to leave 
the city by the Porta del Popolo, to drive round the walls, and re* 
enter by the Porta San Giovanni ? Well, this route is very dam 
gerous, to say the least.” 

“ Dangerous ! and why? ” 

“ On account of the famous Luigi Vampa.” 

“ Pray, who may this famous Luigi Vampa be ? ” inquired Al- 
bert. 

“ He was a shepherd-boy attached to the farm of Count San- 
Felice, between Palestrina and the lake of Gabri , he was born at 
Pampinara, and entered the count’s service when five years old ; 
his father was also a shepherd, who owned a small flock, and 
lived by the wool and the milk, which he sold at Rome. When 
quite a child, the little Vampa was of a most extraordinary ten- 
dency. He learnt almost of himself and by himself to read and 
write and to carve wood excellently. 

“A girl of six or seven — that is, a little younger than Vampa 
— tended sheep on a farm near Palestrina ; she was an orphan, 
born at Valmontone, and was named Teresa. The two children 
met, sat down near each other, let their flocks mingle together, 
played, laughed and conversed together ; in the evening they 
separated the flocks and returned to their respective farms, prom- 
ising to meet the next morning. The next day they kept their 
word, and thus grew up. Vampa was twelve, and Teresa eleven. 
The two children grew up together, passing all their time with each 
other, and giving themselves up to the wild ideas of their different 
characters. Thus, in all their dreams, their wishes, and their con- 
versations, Vampa saw himself the captain of a vessel, general ol 
an army, or governor of a province. Teresa saw herself rich, 
superbly attired, and attended by a train of liveried domestics. 
Then, when they had thus passed the day in building castles in 
the air, they separated their flocks, and descended from the eleva- 
tion of their dreams to the reality of their humble position. 

“One day the young shepherd told the count’s steward he had 
seen a wolf come out of the Sabine mountains, and prowl around 
his flock. The steward gave him a gun ; this was what Vampa 
longed for. This gun had an excellent barrel, made at Brechia, 
and carrying a ball with the precision of an English rifle ; but 
one day the count broke the stock, and had then cast the gun 
aside. This* however, was nothing to a sculptor like Vampa ; he 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


12 ? 


examined the ancient stock, calculated what change it would re- 
quire to adapt the gun to his shoulder, and made a fresh stock, so 
beautifully carved that it would have fetched fifteen or twenty 
piastres, had he chosen to sell it. From this moment Vampa de- 
voted all his leisure time to perfecting himself in the use of this 
precious weapon. 

"One evening a wolf emerged from a pine-wood near which 
they were usually stationed, but the wolf had scarcely advanced 
ten yards ere he was dead. All these circumstances had gained 
Luigi considerable reputation. The man of superior abilities al- 
ways finds admirers, go where he will. He was spoken of as the 
most adroit, the strongest, and the most courageous contadino for 
ten leagues round ; and although Teresa was universally allowed 
to be the most beautiful girl of the Sabines, no one had ever 
spoken to her of love, because it was known that she was beloved 
by Vampa. When Teresa was sixteen and Vampa eighteen, a 
band of brigands established in the Lepini mountains began to be 
much spoken of. The brigands have never been really extirpated 
from the neighborhood of Rome. Sometimes a chief is wanted, 
but when a chief presents himself he rarely wants a band. 

"The celebrated Cucumetto, pursued in the Abruzzo, driven 
out of the kingdom of Naples, where he had carried on a regular 
war, had come to take refuge on the banks of the Amasine. He 
strove to reorganize a band, and followed the footsteps of Deces- 
aris and Gasperone, whom he hoped to surpass. Many young 
men joined the band of Cucumetto. After some time Cucumetto 
became the object of universal attention ; the most extraordinary 
traits of ferocious daring and brutality were related of him. 
From Fondi to Pereuse, every one trembled at the name of Cucu- 
metto. These narratives were frequently the themes of conversa- 
tion between Luigi and Teresa. The girl trembled very much at 
all these tales ; but Vampa reassured her with a smile, tapping 
the butt of his good fowling-piece, which threw its ball so well ; 
and if that did not restore her courage, he pointed to a crow, 
perched on some dead branch, took an aim, touched the trigger, 
and the bird fell dead at the foot of the tree. Time passed on, 
and the two young people had settled to be married when Vampa ( 
should be twenty and Teresa nineteen years of age. They were 
both orphans, and had only their employers’ leave to ask, which 
had been already sought and obtained. One day when they 
were talking over their plans for the future, they heard two or 
three reports of firearms, and then suddenly a man came out of 
the wood, near which the two young persons used to graze their 
flocks, and hurried towards them. When he came within hear- 
ing, he exclaimed, ‘ I am pursued ; can you conceal me ? * They 
knew full well that this fugitive must be a bandit : but there is an 
innate sympathy between the Roman brigand and the Roman 
peasant, and the latter is always ready to aid the former. Vampa, 


128 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


without saying a word, hastened to the stone that closed up the 
entrance to their grotto, drew it away, made a sign to the fugitive 
to take refuge there, in a retreat unknown to every one, closed ths 
stone upon him, and then went and resumed his seat by Teresa. 
Instantly afterwards four carbineers, on horseback, appeared on 
the edge of the wood ; three of them appeared to be looking for 
the fugitive, whilst the fourth dragged a brigand prisoner by the 
neck. The three carbineers scrutinized on all sides, saw the 
young peasants, and, galloping up, interrogated them. They had 
seen no one. ‘That is very annoying,’ said the brigadier ; ‘for 

the man we are looking for is the chief.’ ‘ Cucumetto?’ ” cried 

Luigi and Teresa at the same moment. 

“ ‘Yes,* replied the brigadier ; ‘ and as his head is valued at a 
thousand Roman crowns, there would have been five hundred for 
you, if you had helped us to catch him.’ The two young persons 
exchanged looks. The brigadier had a moment’s hope. Five 
hundred Roman crowns are three thousand francs, and three 
thousand francs are a fortune for two poor orphans who are going 
*a be married. 

“‘Yes, it is very annoying,' said Vampa; ‘but we have not 
seen him.’ 

“Then the carbineers scoured the country in different direc- 
tions, but in vain ; then, after a time, they disappeared. Vampa 
then removed the stone, and Cucumetto came out. He had seen, 
through the crevices in the granite, the two young peasants talk- 
ing with the carbineers, and guessed the subject of their parley. 
He had read in the countenances of Luigi and Teresa their stead- 
fast resolution not to surrender him, and he drew from his pocket 
a purse full of gold, which he offered to them. But Vampa raised 
his head proudly ; as to Teresa, her eyes sparkled when she 
thought of all the fine gowns and gay jewelry she could buy 
with this purse of gold. 

“ Cucumetto was a cunning fiena, and had assumed the form 
of a brigand instead of a serpent, and this look of Teresa revealed 
to him that she was a worthy daughter of Eve, and he returned to 
the forest, pausing several times on his way, under the pretext of 
saluting his protectors. Several days elapsed, and they neither 
saw nor heard of Cucumetto. The time of the Carnival was at 
hand. The Count San-Felice announced a grand masque ball, 
to which all that were distinguished in Rome were invited. 
Teresa had a great desire to see this ball. Luigi asked permission 
of his protector, the steward, that she and he might be present 
amongst the servants of the house. This was granted. The 
ball was given by the count for the particular pleasure of his 
daughter Carmela, whom he adored. Carmela was precisely the 
age and figure of Teresa, and Teresa was as handsome as 
Carmela. On the evening of the ball Teresa was attired in her 
best* her most brilliant hair ornaments, and gayest &amp;la&amp;5 bead*,— 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


I29 


she was in the costume of the women of Frascati. Luigi wore 
the very picturesque garb of the Roman peasants at holiday 
time. 

Carmela was attired like a woman of Sonnino. 

Two of her companions were dressed, the one as a woman of 
Ivettuno, and the other as a woman of La Riccia. Four young 
men of the richest and noblest families of Rome accompanied 
them with that Italian freedom which has not its parallel in any 
other country in the world. They were attired as peasants. We 
need hardly add that these peasant costumes, like those of the 
females, were brilliant with gold and jewels. 

“ Carmela wished to make a uniform quadrille, but there was 
one lady waiting. Carmela looked all around her, but not one of 
the guests had a costume similar to her own, or those of her com- 
panions. The Comte de San-Felice pointed out to her, in the 
group of peasants, Teresa, who was hanging on Luigi’s arm. 
‘ Will you allow me, father?’ said Carmela. ‘Certainly,’ re- 

plied the comte, ‘ are we not in Carnival time ? ’ — — Carmela 
turned towards the young man who was talking with her, and say- 
ing a few words to him, pointed with her finger to Teresa. The 
young man followed with his eyes the lovely hand which made 
this indication, bowed in obedience, and then went to Teresa, 
and invited her to dance in a quadrille directed by the count’s 
daughter. Teresa felt something like a flame pass over her face ; 
she looked at Luigi, who could not refuse his assent. Luigi 
slowly relinquished Teresa’s arm, which he had held beneath his 
cwn, and Teresa, accompanied by her elegant cavalier, took her 
appointed place with much agitation in the aristocratic quadrille. 
Luigi was jealous ! He felt that, influenced by her ambition and 
coquettish disposition, Teresa might escape him. 

When the chill of the night had driven away the guests from the 
gardens, and the gates of the villa were closed on them for the 
fete indoors Luigi took Teresa Quite away, and as he left her at her 
home, he said, — 

“ ‘Teresa, what were you thinking of as you danced opposite 

the young Comtesse de San-Felice?’ I thought,’ replied the 

young girl, with all the frankness of her nature, 1 that I would give 
half my life for a costume such as she wore.’ 

“ ‘ Well, then, you shall have it !* 

“ The girl, much astonished, raised her head to look at him, but 
his face was so gloomy and terrible that her words froze to her 
lips. As Luigi spoke thus, he left het. Teresa followed hin? with 
her eyes into the darkness as long as she could, and when he had 
quite disappeared, she entered her apartment with a sigh. 

“ That night a great accident happened, no doubt from the im- 
prudence of some servant who had neglected to extinguish the 
lights. The Ville de San-Felice took fire in the rooms adjoining 
the very apartment of the lovely Carmela. Awoke 111 the night by 
Q 


130 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


fhe light of the flames, she had sprung out of bed, wrapped herself ha 
a dressing-gown, and attempted to escape by the door, but the 
corridor by which she hoped to fly was already a prey to the 
flames. She had then returned to her room, calling for help a3 
loudly as she could, when suddenly her window, which was 
twenty feet from the ground, was opened, a young peasant jumped 
into the chamber, seized her in his arms, and with superhuman 
skill and strength conveyed her out safe and uninjured. Her pre- 
server was everywhere sought for, but did not appear ; no one had 
seen him. 

“ The next day, at the usual hour, the two young peasants were 
on the borders of the forest. Luigi arrived first. He came to- 
wards Teresa in high spirits, and seemed to have completely for- 
gotten the events of the previous evening. The girl was very pen- 
sive, but seeing Luigi so cheerful, she on her part assumed a smil- 
ing air, which was natural to her when no excitement of passion 
came to disturb her. Luigi took her arm beneath his own and led 
her to the door of the grotto. Then he paused. The girl, per- 
ceiving that there was something extraordinary, looked at him 
steadfastly. ‘Teresa/ said Luigi, ‘ yesterday evening you told me 
you would give all the world to have a costume similar to that of 
the count’s daughter/ ‘Yes,’ replied the girl, whose astonish- 

ment increased at every word uttered by Luigi, * but of course 
your reply was only to please me.’ 

“ ‘ I have promised no more than I have given you, Teresa/ 
said Luigi, proudly. ‘ Go into the grotto and dress yourself/ 
At these words he drew away the stone, and showed Teresa the 
grotto, lighted up by two wax lights, which burnt on each side of 
a splendid mirror , on a rustic table, made by Luigi, were spread 
out the pearl necklace and the diamond pins, and on a chair at 
the side was laid the rest of the costume. 

“Teresa uttered a cry of joy, and, without inquiring whence 
this attire came, or even thanking Luigi, darted into the grotto 
transformed into a dressing-room. Luigi pushed the stone behind 
her, for he saw on the crest of a small adjacent hill which pre- 
vented him from seeing Palestrina from where he was, a traveler 
on horseback. The traveler, had mistaken his way ; he begged 
Luigi to be his guide. In ten minutes Luigi and the traveler 
reached the cross-roads alluded to by the young shepherd. On 
arriving there, with an air as majestic as that of an emperor, he 
stretched his hand toward that one of the roads which the traveler 
was to follow. — ‘ That is your road, excellency, and now you can* 

not again mistake/ ‘And here is your recompense/ said the 

traveler, offering the young herdsman some pieces of small 
money. 

“ * Thank you/ said Luigi, drawing back his hand ; * I render* 

service, I do not sell it/ ‘Well,’ replied the traveler, who 

seemed used to this difference between the servility of a man of a 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


131 

man of the cities and the pride of the mountaineer, • if you refuse 
pay, you will, perhaps, accept of a present. Take these two 
Venitian sequins and give them to your bride, to make herself a 
pair of earrings.* 

“ * And then do you take this poniard,’ said the young herds- 
man : * you will not find one better carved between Albana and 
Civita-Castellana. * 

“ 4 I accept it,* answered the traveler. “ * What is your 
name ? ’ inquired the traveler. 

** * Luigi Vampa,’ replied the shepherd, with the same air 
as would have replied Alexander, King of Macedon. ‘And 
yours ? ’ 

a ‘ ‘ I,* said the traveler, ‘am called Sinbad the Sailor.* 

“ * Yes,” replied the narrator ; “ that was the name which the 
traveler gave to Vampa as his own.* ’* 

“ Well, and what may you have to say against this name?” in- 
quired Albert ; “it is a very pretty name, and the adventures of 
the gentleman of that name amused me very much in my youth, I 
must confess.” — Franz said no more. The name of Sinbad the 
Sailor, as may well be supposed, awakened in him a world of 
recollections, as had the name of thejCount of Monte-Cristo on the 
previous evening. 

“Vampa put the two sequins haughtily into his pocket, and 
slowly returned by the way he had gone. As he came within two 
or three hundred paces of the grotto, he thought he heard a 
scream. He cast his eyes around him, and saw a man carrying off 
Teresa, as did the Centaur Nessus Dejanira. This man, who was 
hastening toward the wood, was already three-quarrers of the 
way on the road from the grotto to the forest. Vampa measured 
the distance : the man was at least two hundred paces in advance 
of him, and there was not a chance of overtaking him. The 
young shepherd stopped, as if his feet had been rooted to the 
ground ; then he put the butt of his carbine to his shoulder, took 
aim &lt;it the ravisher, followed him for a second in his track, and 
then fired. The ravisher stopped suddenly, his knees bent under 
him, and he fell with Teresa in his arms. The girl rose instantly, 
but the man lay on the earth struggling in the agonies of death. The 
ball, had pierced his heart. Vampa gazed on him for a moment 
without betraying the slightest emotion ; whilst, on the contrary, 
Tesesa, shuddering in every limb, dared not approach the slain 
ruffian but by degrees, and threw a hesitating glance at the dead 
bodv over the shoulder of her lover. Suddenly Vampa turned 
towards his mistress : — * Ah ! ah P said he — * good, good ! you are 
attired ; it is now my turn to dress myself.’ ” 

“Teresa was clothed from head to foot in the garb of San- 
Felice’s daughter. Vampa took Cucumetto’s body in his arms 
and conveyed it to the grotto, whilst in her turn Teresa remained 
outside £ second traveler had passed, he would have seen a 


132 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


strange thing ; a shepherdess watching her flock, clad in a cache- 
mire gown, with ear-rings and necklace of pearls, diamond pins, 
and buttons of sapphires, emeralds, and rubies. At the end of a 
quarter hour Vampa quitted the grotto ; his costume was no less 
elegant than Teresa’s. He had assumed the entire costume of Cu- 
cumetto. The young man saw the effect produced on his be- 
trothed, and a smile of pride over his lips. — ‘ Now,' he said to 
Teresa, ‘ are you ready to share my fortune, whatever it may be ?’ 

. ‘Oh, yes!’ exclaimed the girl enthusiastically. ‘And 

follow me wherever I go?’ ‘To the world’s end.’ ‘Then 

take my arm, and let us on, we have no time to loose.’ — The girl 
did so without questioning her lover as to where he w r as conduct- 
ing her, for he appeared to her at this moment, as handsome, 
croud, and powerful as a god. They went towards the forest, and 
soon entered it. We need scarcely say that all the paths of the 
mountain were known to Vampa ; he therefore went forward with- 
out a moment’s hesitation, although there was no beaten track ; 
but he knew his path by looking at the trees and bushes ; and thus 
they kept on advancing for nearly an hour and a half. At the 
end of this time they had reached the thickest of the forest. Sud- 
denly, about ten paces from them, a man advanced from behind a 
tree and aimed at Vampa. — ‘ Not another step,’ he said, ‘ or you 

are a dead man.’ ‘ What then ! ’ said Vampa, raising his hand 

with a gesture of disdain, whilst Teresa, no longer able to restrain 
her alarm, clung closely to him ; * do wolves rend each other ?’ — — 

* Who are you ? inquired the sentinel. ‘ I am Luigi Vampa, 

shepherd of the farm of San- Felice. I would speak with your 

companions in the recess at Rocca Bianca. ‘ Follow me, then/ 

said the sentinel ; ‘ or, as you know your way, go first.’ — Vampa 
smiled disdainfully at this precaution of the bandit, went before 
Teresa, and continued to advance with the same firm and easy 
step as before. At the end of ten minutes the bandit made them 
a sign to stop. The two young persons obeyed. Then the bandit 
thrice imitated the caw of a crow ; a croak answered this signal. 
— ‘ Good !’ said the sentry : ‘you may now advance.’ — Luigi and 
Teresa again set forward ; as they advanced, Teresa clung 
tremblingly to her lover, as she saw through the trees arms appear 
and the barrels of carbines shine. The retreat of Rocca Bianca was 
at the top of a small mountain, which no doubt in former days had 
been a volcano. Teresa and Luigi reached the summit, and all at 
once found themselves in the presence of twenty bandits. ‘ Here 
is a young man who seeks and wishes to speak to you/ said the 

sentinel. ‘ What has he to say ? * inquired the young man who 

was in command in the chief’s absence. * I wish to say that I 

am tired of a shepherd’s life,’ was Vampa’s reply. 1 come to 

ask to be your captain,' said the young man. The bandits 
shouted with laughter. ‘ And what have you done to aspire to 
Shis honor? ’ demanded the lieutenant,— ‘ I have killed your chief. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


133 


Cucumetto, whose dress I now wear ; and I set fire to the Villa 
San-Felice to procure a wedding-dress for my betrothed.’ An 
hour afterwards Luigi Vampa was chosen captain, vice Cucumetto 
deceased.” 

“Well, my dear Albert,” said Franz, turning towards his 
friend, “ what think you of citizen Luigi Vampa ? ” 

I say he is a myth,” replied Albert, “ and never had an ex- 
istence.” 

“And you say that Vampa exercises his profession at this 
moment in the environs of Rome ? Then the police have vainly 
tried to lay hands on him?” “Why, you see, he has a good 
understanding with the shepherds on the plains, the fishermen of 
the Tiber, and the smugglers of the coast. They seek for him in 
the mountains, and he is on the water ; they follow him on the 
waters, and he is on the open sea; then they pursue him, and he 
has suddenly taken refuge on the isle Monte-Cristo ; and when 
they hunt for him there, he reappears suddenly at Albano, 
Tivoli, or La Riccia.” 

“ And how does he behave towards travelers?” 

“ Alas ! his plan is very simple. It depends on the distance he 
may be from the city, whether he gives eight hours, twelve hours, 
or a day wherein to pay their ransom ; and when that time has 
elapsed he allows another hour’s grace. At the sixtieth minute of 
this hour, if the money is not forthcoming, he blows out the 
prisoner’s brains with a pistol-shot, or plants his dagger in his 
heart, and that settles the account.” 

The two young men went down the staircase, and got into the 
carriage. 


CHAPTER XX. 

THE COLOSSEUM. 

Franz had so managed his route, that during the ride to the 
Colosseum they passed not a single ancient ruin, so that no gradual 
preparation was made on the mind for the colossal proportions of 
the gigantic building they came to admire. This itinerary 
possessed the advantage of leaving Franz at full liberty to in- 
dulge his deep reverie upon the subject of the story recounted by 
Pastrini, in which his mysterious host of the isle of Monte-Cristo 
was so strangely mixed up. 

But however the mind of the young man might be absorbed in 
these reflections, they were at once dispersed at the sight of the 
dark frowning ruins of the stupendous Colosseum, through the 
various openings of which the pale moonlight played and flickered 
like the unearthly gleam from tiie eyes of the wandering dead. 


*34 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRIST® 


The carriage stopped near the Meta Sudans, the doffi opened, 
and the young men, eagerly alighting, found themselves opposite 
a cicerone, who appeared to have sprung up from the ground, so 
unexpected was his appearance. 

As for Albert and Franz, they essayed not to escape from their 
Ciceronian tyrants ; and, indeed, it would have been so much the 
more difficult to break their bondage, as the guides alone are per- 
mitted to visit these monuments with torches in their hands. 
Thus, then, the young men made no attempt at resistance, but 
blindly and confidingly surrendered themselves into the care and 
custody of their conductors. Scarcely, had the reflective Franz 
walked a hundred steps beneath the interior porticoes of the ruin, 
than, abandoning Albert to the guides, ascended a half-dilapidated 
staircase, and, leaving them to follow their monotonous round, 
seated himself at the foot of a column, and immediately opposite 
a large chasm, which permitted him to enjoy a full and undis- 
turbed view of the gigantic dimensions of this majestic ruin., 

Franz had remained for nearly a quarter of an hour perfectly 
hidden by the shadow of the vast column, when all at once his ear 
caught a sound resembling a stone rolling down the staircase op- 
posite the one by which he had himself ascended. Some one, was 
approaching the spot where he sat. Conjecture soon became cer- 
tainty, for a man was distinctly visible to Franz, gradually emerg- 
ing from the staircase opposite, upon which the moon was at that 
moment pouring a full tide of silvery brightness. 

The stranger thus presenting himself was probably a person who, 
like Franz, preferred the enjoyment of solitude and his own 
thoughts to the frivolous gabble of the guides. And his appear- 
ance had nothing extraordinary in it ; but the hesitation with which 
he proceeded onwards, stopping and listening with anxious atten- 
tion at every step he took, convinced Franz he expected the ar- 
rival of some person. 

From the imperfect means Franz had of judging, he could only 
come to one conclusion — that the individual whom he was thus 
watching certainly belonged to no inferior station of life. Some 
few minutes had elapsed, and the stranger began to show manifest 
signs of impatience, when a slight noise was heard outside the 
aperture in the roof, and almost immediately a dark shadow 
seemed to obstruct the flood of light that had entered it, and the 
figure of a man was clearly seen gazing with eager scrutiny on the 
immense space beneath him ; then, as his eye caught sight of the 
individual in the mantle, he grasped a floating mass of thickly- 
matted boughs, and glided down by their help to within three 
or four feet of the ground, and then leaped lightly on his feet. 
The man who had performed this daring act with so much indif- 
ference wore the costume of Transtevere. “ I beg your excel- 
lency’s pardon for keeping you waiting,” said the man, in the Ro- 
man dialect, 14 but I don’t think I’m many minutes after my 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. I $5 

time ; ten o’clock has just struck by the clock of Saint-Jean-de- 
Latran.” 

“ Say not a word about being late,” replied the stranger, in pur- 
est Tuscan ; “ ' tis I who am too soon. But even if you had caused 
me to wait a little while, I should have felt quite sure that the de- 
lay was not occasioned by any fault of yours.” 

“Your excellency is perfectly right in so thinking,” said the 
man ; “ I came here direct from the Castle San Angelo, and I had 
an immense deal of trouble before I could get to speak to Beppo. 
He is employed in the prison, and I give him so much a year to 
let me know what is going on within his holiness’s Castle.” 

“ Indeed ! You are a provident person, I see.” 

“Why, you see, no one knows what may happen. Perhaps 
some of these days I may be entrapped, like poor Peppino, and 
may be very glad to have some little nibbling mouse to gnaw the 
meshes of my net, and so help me out of prison.” 

“ Briefly, what did you glean ? ” 

“That two executions of considerable interest will take place 
the day after to-morrow at two o’clock, as is customary at Rome 
at the commencement of all great festivals. One of the culprits 
will be mazzolato ; he is an atrocious villain, who murdered the 
priest who brought him up, and deserves not the smallest pity. 
The other sufferer is to be beheaded ; and he, is poor Peppino.” 

“ The fact is, that you have inspired not only the pontifical gov- 
ernment, but also the neighboring states, with such extreme fear, 

that they are glad of an opportunity of making an example.” 

“ But Peppino did not even belong to my band ; he was merely a 
poor shepherd, whose only crime consisted in furnishing us with 
provisions. 

“ One thing I have resolved on, and that is, to stop at nothing to 
restore a poor devil to liberty, who has got into this scrape solely 
from having served me. I should hate and despise myself as a 
coward, did I desert the brave fellow in his present extremity.” 

“ And what do you mean to do?” “ To surround the scaf- 

fold with twenty of my best men, who, at a signal from me, will 
rush forward directly Peppino is brought for execution, and, by the 
assistance of their stilettos, drive back the guard, and carry off 
the prisoner.” 

“That seems to me as hazardous as uncertain, and convinces 
me my scheme is far better than yours.” 

“ And what is your excellency's project ? ” 

“ Take what precautions you please, if It is any satisfaction to 
you to do so ; but rely upon my obtaining the reprieve I seek.” 

‘ And how shall I know whether your excellency has succeeded 
or not? ” 

“ Oh ! that is very easily arranged ; I have engaged the three 
lower windows at the Rospoli Caffe ; should I have obtained the 
requisite pardon for Peppino, the two windows will be hung with 


i$6 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

yellow damasks, and the centre with white, having a large cross in 
red marked on it.” 

44 And whom will you employ to carry the reprieve to the officer 
directing the execution? ” — 44 Send one of your men disguised as 
a penitent friar, and I will give it to him : his dress will procure 
him the means of approaching the scaffold itself, and will deliver 
the official order to the officer, who, in his turn, will hand it to the 
executioner ; in the meantime, it will be as well to acquaint Pep- 
pino with what we have determined on, if it be only to prevent 
his dying of fear or losing his senses, because in either case a very 
useless expense will have been incurred.” 

44 Only fulfil your promise of rescuing Peppino, and hencefor- 
ward you shall receive not only devotedness, but the most abso- 
lute obedience from myself and those under me that one human 
being can render to another.” 

41 Hush ! ” interrupted the stranger ; 41 I hear a noise.” 

44 ’Tis some travelers, who are visiting the Colosseum by torch- 
light.” 

44 ’Twere better we should not be seen together ; those guides 
are nothing but spies, and might possibly recognize you ; and, 
however 1 may be honored by your friendship, my worthy friend, 
if once the extent of our intimacy were known, I am sadly afraid 
both my reputation and credit would suffer thereby.” 

44 All is then understood between us. Adieu, your excellency, 
depend upon me as firmly as I do upon you.” 

Saying these words, the Transtevere disappeared down the stair- 
case, while his companion, muffling his features more closely than 
before in the folds of his mantle, passed almost close to Franz, 
and descended to the arena by an outward flight of steps. The 
next minute Franz heard himself called by Albert, who made the 
lofty building re-echo with the sound of his friend’s name. Franz, 
however, did not obey the summons till he had satisfied himself 
the two individuals, whose conversation he had thus surprised, 
were at a sufficient distance to prevent his encountering them in 
his descent, not wishing that they should suspect having had a 
witness to their discourse, who, if unable to recognize their faces, 
had- at least heard every word that passed. In ten minutes from 
the parting of the strangers, F ranz was on the road to the Hotel 
d’Espagne, listening with mortified indifference to the learned dis- 
sertation delivered by Albert. Franz longed to be alone, and able, 
undisturbedly, to ponder over all that had occurred. One of the 
two men, whose mysterious rendezvous in the Colosseum he had 
so unintentionally witnessed, was an entire stranger to him, but 
not so the other; and though Franz had been unable to distin- 
guish his features, from his being either wrapped in his mantle or 
obscured by the shadow, the tones of his voice had made too pow- 
erful an impression on him the first time he heard them for him 
ever again to forget them, hear them when or where he might 1$ 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


* 3 ? 


was more especially when speaking in a manner half-jesting, half- 
bitter, that Franz’s ear recalled mo'st vividly the deep, sonorous, 
yet well-pitched voice, that had spoken to him in the grotto of 
Monte-Cristo, and which he heard for the second time amid the 
darkness and ruined grandeur of the Colosseum ! And the more 
he thought, the more entire was his conviction, that the individual 
in the mantle was no other than his former host and entertainer. 
u Smbad the Sailor.” 


CHAPTER XXL 

THE EXECUTION. 

The Carnival was to commence on the morrow : therefore Al- 
bert had not an instant to lose in setting forth the programme of 
his hopes, expectations, and claims to notice. With this design 
he had engaged a box in the most conspicuous part of the Argen- 
tine theatre, and exerted himself to set off his personal attractions 
by the most elaborate toilet. The box taken by Albert was in the 
first circle, who knew but that, thus advantageously placed, he 
could not fail to attract the notice of some fair Roman ; and an 
introduction might ensue that would procure him the offer of a 
seat in a carriage, or a place in a princely balcony, from which he 
might behold the gaieties of the Carnival ? 

The truth was, that the anticipated pleasures of the Carnival, 
with the “ holy week” that was to succeed it, so filled every fair 
breast, as to prevent the least attention being bestowed even on 
the business of the stage. Toward the close of the first act, the 
door of a box which had been hitherto vacant was opened ; a 
lady entered to whom Franz had been introduced in Paris, where, 
indeed, he had imagined she still was. The quick eye of Albert 
caught the involuntary start with which his friend beheld the new 
arrival, and turning to him, he said hastily — “ Do you know the 

female who has just entered the box?” “Countess Guic- 

cioli ” 

“ Ah ! I know her by name,” exclaimed Albert ; M she is said 
to possess as much wit and cleverness as beauty ! I was to have 
been presented to her when I met her at Mdme Villefort’s ball.” 

“Shall I assist you in repairing your negligence ?” asked 
Franz. 

“ My dear fellow, are you really on such good terms with her 

as to venture to take me to her box ? ” “ Why, I have only 

had the honor of being in her society and conversing with her 
three or four times in my life ; but you know that even such an 
acquaintance as that might warrant my doing what you ask.” At 
this instant, the countess perceived Franz, and graciously waved 


138 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

her hand to him, to which he replied by a respectful inclination 
of the head. 

The curtain at length fell on the performances, to the infinite 
satisfaction of Viscount Morcerf, who seized his hat, rapidly passed 
his fingers through his hair, arranged his cravat and wristbands, 
and signified to Franz that he was waiting for him to lead the 

way. 

Franz presented Albert as one of the most distinguished young 
|men of the day, both as regarded his position in society and ex- 
traordinary talents : nor did he say more than the truth, for in 
Paris and the circle in which the viscount moved, he was looked 
upon and cited as a model of perfection. 

The countess, in reply, bowed gracefully to Albert, and ex- 
tended her hand with cordial kindness to Franz; then, inviting 
Albert to take the vacant seat beside her, she recommended 
Franz to take the next best, if he wished to view the ballet, and 
pointed to the one behind her own chair. Albert was soon deeply 
engrossed in discoursing upon Paris and Paris matters, speaking 
to the countess of the various persons they both knew there. 
Franz perceived how completely he was in his element ; and, un- 
willing to interfere with the pleasure he so evidently felt, took up 
Albert’s glasses, and began in his turn to survey the audience. 
Sitting alone, in the front of a box immediately opposite, but sit- 
uated on the third row, was a female of exquisite beauty, dressed 
in a Greek costume, which it was evident, from the ease and 
grace with which she wore it, was her national attire. Behind her, 
but in deep shadow, was the outline of a male figure ; but the feat- 
ures of this latter personage it was not possible to distinguish. F ranz 
could not forbear breaking in upon the apparently interesting con- 
versation passing between the countess and Albert, to inquire of 
the former if she knew who w r as the fair Albanaise opposite, since 
beauty such as hers was well worthy of being remarked by either 
sex. “All I can tell you about her,” replied the countess, “ is, 
that she has been at Rome since the beginning of the season ; for 
I saw her where she now sits the very first night of the theatre’s 
opening, and since then she has never missed a performance. 
Sometimes accompanied by the individual who is with her, and at 
Others merely attended by a black servant.” 

“And what do you think of her personal appearance ? ” 

** Oh, I consider her perfectly lovely— she is just my idea of what 
Medora must have been.” 

Franz and the countess exchanged a smile, and then the latter 
^resumed her conversation with Albert, while Franz returned to his 
previous survey of the house and company. The curtain rose on 
the ballet. However much it might have claimed his attention, 
Franz was too deeply occupied with the beautiful Greek to take 
any note of it, while she seemed to experience an almost child- 
like delight in watching it ; her eager* animated looks, contrasting 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . ijq 


strongly with the utter indifference of her companion, who, during 
the whole time the piece lasted, never even moved. 

The overture to the second act began ; and at the first sound of 
the violin, Franz observed the sleeper slowly arise and approach 
the Greek girl, who turned round to say a few words to him, and 
then, leaning forward again on her box, she became as absorbed as 
before in what was going on. The countenance of the person who 
had addressed her remained so completely in the shade, that, 
though Franz tried his utmost, he could not distinguish a single 
feature. The curtain drew up, and the attention of Franz was 
attracted by the actors ; and his eyes quitted their gaze at the box 
containing the Greek girl and her strange companion to watch the 
business of the stage. 

Most of my readers are aware that the second act of “ Pari- 
sina ” opens with the celebrated and effective duet in which 
Parisina, while sleeping, betrays to Azzo the secret of her love for 
Ugo. Excited beyond his usual calm demeanor, Franz rose with 
the audience, and was about to join the loud enthusiastic applause 
that followed ; but suddenly his purpose was arrested, his hands 
fell by his sides, and the half-uttered “ bravos ” expired on his 
lips. The occupant of the box in which the Greek girl sat ap&lt; 
peared to share the universal admiration that prevailed, for he 
left his seat to stand up in the front, so that, his countenance be- 
ing fully revealed, Franz had no difficulty in recognizing him as 
the mysterious inhabitant of Monte-Cristo, and the very same in- 
dividual he had encountered the preceding evening in the ruins of 
the Colosseum, and whose voice and figure had seemed so familiar 
to him. All doubt of his identity was now at an end : his sin- 
gular host evidently resided at Rome. The surprise and agitation 
occasioned by this full confirmation of Franz’s former suspicion 
had no doubt imparted a corresponding expression to his features ; 
for the countess, after gazing with a puzzled look on his speaking 
countenance, burst into a fit of laughter, and begged to know 
what happened. “Madame,” returned Franz, totally unheeding 
her raillery, “ I asked you a short time since if you knew any 
particulars respecting the Albanian lady opposite ; I must now be- 
seech you to inform me who and what is her husband ? ” 

“All I can say,” continued the countess, taking up the glasses, 
and directing it to the box in question, “ is, that the gentleman, 
whose story I am unable to furnish, seems to me as though he 
had just been dug up ; he looks more like a corpse permitted by 
some friendly gravedigger to quit his tomb for a while, and re- 
visit this earth of ours, than anything human. How ghastly pale 
he is ! ” 

“ Oh, he is always as colorless as you now see him," said 
Franz. 

“Then y know him? M almost screamed the countess. •• Ohl 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


I4C 

pray do, for heaven’s sake, tell us all about is he a vampire, 

or a resuscitated corpse, or what ? ” 

“ I fancy I have seen him before ; and I even think he rec- 
ognizes me.” 

“ He is no other than Lord Ruthven himself in a living form.” 
This fresh allusion to Byron drew a smile to Franz’s countenance ; 
although he could but allow that if anything was likely to induce 
belief in the existence of vampires, it would be the presence of 
such a man as the mysterious personage before him. 

“ I’ll tell you,” answered the countess. “ Byron had the most 
perfect belief in the existence of vampires, and even assured me 
lie had seen some. The description he gave me perfectly corres- 
ponds with the features and character of the man before us. Oh ! 
it is the exact personification of what I have been led to expect. 
The coal black hair, large bright glittering eyes, in which a wild, 
unearthly fire seems burning, — the same ghastly paleness. Then 
observe, too, that the very female he has with him is altogether un- 
like all others of her sex. She is a foreigner — a stranger. Nobody 
knows who she is, or where she comes from. No doubt she be- 
longs to the same horrible race he does, and is, like himself, a 
dealer in magical arts. I entreat of you not to go near him — at 
least to-night ; and if to-morrow your curiosity still continues as 
great, pursue your researches if you will ; but to-night you neither 
can nor shall. For that purpose I mean to keep you all to my- 
self.” 

On his return from the countess’s to his own hotel, Franz found 
Albert glad to see him. 

My friend,” cried he, " a bright idea has flashed across my 
brain. You agree, do you not, that obtaining a carriage is out of 
the question? ” 

•* True ; we have offered any sums, but have failed.” 

•'Well, now, what do you say to a cart? With a cart and a 
couple of oxen our business can be managed. The cart must be 
tastefully ornamented ; and if you and I dress ourselves as Nea- 
politan reapers, we may get up a striking tableau, after the manner 
of that splendid picture by Leopold Robert. It would add greatly 
to the effect if the countess would join us in the costume of a peas- 
ant. Our group would then be quite complete, more especially as 
the countess is quite beautiful.” 

Well,” said Franz, “ this time, Albert, I am bound to give you 
credit for having hit upon a most capital idea.” 

"And quite a national one, too,” replied Albert with gratified 
pride. " A mere masque borrowed from our own festivities. Ha ! 
ha ! you Romans, thought to make us, unhappy strangers, trot at 
the leels of your processions, like so many lazzaroni, because no 
carriages or horses are to be had in your beggarly city. But you 
don’t know us ; when we can’t have one thing we invent another, 45 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. !&lt;*t 

«&lt; And have you communicated your triumphant idea to any pef* 
son ? ” 

“ Only to our host. Gone in search of our equipage : I expect 
him every minute.” At this instant the door opened, and Pastrini 
appeared, 

“ Now, then,” asked Albert, eagerly ; 44 have you found the de- 
sired cart and oxen ? ” 

41 Better than that ! ” replied Pastrini, with the air of a man per- 
fectly well satisfied with himself. 

44 Take care, my worthy host,” said Albert, 44 better is a sure 
enemy to well." 

44 Your excellencies are aware,” responded the landlord, swell- 
ing with importance, 44 that the Count of Monte-Cristo is living on 
the same floor with yourselves ! 

44 I should think we did know it,” exclaimed Albert, 44 since it 
is owing to that circumstance that we are packed into these small 
rooms, like two poor students in the back streets of Paris.” 

44 Well, then, the Count of Monte-Cristo, hearing of the di- 
lemma in which you are placed, has sent to offer you seats in his 
carriage and two places at his windows in the Palace Rospoli.” 
The friends looked at each other with unutterable surprise. 

At this instant some one knocked at the door. 44 Come in ! 
said Franz. A servant, wearing a livery of considerable style and 
richness, appeared at the threshold, and placing two cards in the 
landlord’s hands, who forthwith presented them to the two young 
men, he said, 44 Please to deliver these, from Count of Monte- 
Cristo, to Viscount Albert Morcerf and M. Franz Epinay. The 
Count of Monte-Cristo,” continued the servant, 44 begs these gen- 
tleman’s permission to wait upon them as their neighbor, and he 
will be honored by an intimation ^f what time they will please to 
receive him.” 

44 Faith, Franz,” whispered Aroert, 44 there is not much to find 

fault with here.” 44 Tell the count,” replied Franz, 44 that we 

will do ourselves the pleasure of calling on him.” The servant 
bowed and retired. 

44 That is what I call an elegant mode of attack,” said Albert. 
44 Still, I must own I am sorry to be obliged to give up the cart 
and the group of reapers — it would have produced such an effect ! 
And were it not for the windows at the Palace Rospoli, by way of 
recompense for the loss of our beautiful scheme, I don’t know but 
what I should have held on by my original plan. What say you, 
Franz ? ’* 

44 Oh, I agree with you ; the windows in the Palace Rospoli alone 
decided me.” The truth was, that the mention of two places in 
the Palace Rospoli had recalled to Franz’s mind the conversation 
he had overheard in the Colosseum. The next day must clear up 
every doubt, and unless his near neighbor and would-be friend, 
ths Count of Monte-Cristo, possessed the ring of Gyges, and by 


142 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


its power were able to render himself invisible, it was very certain 
he could not escape this time. Eight o’clock found Franz up and 
dressed, while Albert, who had not the same motives for early ris- 
ing, was still profoundly asleep. The first act of Franz was to 
summon his landlord, who presented himself with his accustomed 
obsequiousness. 

“Pray, Pastrini,” asked Franz, “is not some execution ap- 
pointed to take place to-day ? ” “ Yes, your excellency ; but if 

your reason for inquiry is that you may procure a window to view 
it from, you are much too late.” 

“ Oh, no ! ” answered Franz, “ I had no such intention ; “ but 
in case I feel disposed, give me some particulars of to-day’s execu- 
tions.” 

“ That happens just lucky, your excellence ! Only a few min- 
utes ago they brought me the tavolettas , wooden tablets hung up 
at the corners the evening before an execution, on which Is pasted 
up a paper containing the names of the condemned persons, their 
crimes, and mode of punishment. The reason for so publicly an- 
nouncing all this is, that all good and faithful Catholics may offer 
up their prayers for the unfortunate culprits, and, above all, be- 
seech of Heaven to grant them a sincere repentance.” 

“ Oblige me by a sight of one of these tavolettas." 

“ Nothing can be easier than to comply with your excellency’s 
wish,” said the landlord, opening the door of the chamber ; “I 
have caused one to be placed on the landing, close by your apart- 
ment.” Then, taking the tablet from the wall, he handed it to 
Franz, who read as follows : — 

“ 1 The public is informed that on Wednesday, February 23rd, 
being the first day of the Carnival, two executions will take place 
in the Place del Popolo, by order of the Tribunal de la Rota, of 
two individuals, named Andrea Rondola, and Peppin®, otherwise 
called Rocca Priori ; the former found guilty of the murder of a 
venerable and exemplary priest, named Don Cesar Torlini, canon 
of the church of Saint-Jean-de-Latran ; and the latter convicted 
of being an accomplice of the atrocious and sanguinary bandit, 
Luigi Vampa, and his troupe. The first-named malefactor will be 
inazzolato, the second culprit, decapitato . The prayers of all good 
Christians are entreated for these unfortunate men, that it may 
please God to awaken them to a sense of their guilt, and to grant 
them a hearty and sincere repentance for their crimes.* ” 

This was precisely what Franz had heard the evening before in 
the ruins of the Colosseum. In all probability, therefore, the 
Transtevere was no other than the bandit Luigi Vampa himself, 
and the man shrouded in the mantle the same he had known as 
“ Sinbad the Sailor,” but who, no doubt, was still pursuing his 
philanthropic expedition in Rome as he had already done at Porto- 
Vecchio and Tunis. Time was getting on, however, and Albert 
entered in perfect costume for the day. The anticipated delights 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


543 


of the Carnival had so run in his head as to make him leave his 
pillow long before his usual hour. “ Now, my excellent Pastrini,” 
said Franz, addressing his landlord, “ since we are both ready, do 
you think we may proceed at once to visit the count of Monte- 

Cristo ? ” “ Most assuredly,” replied he. 

The landlord preceded the friends across the landing, which was 
all that separated them from the apartments of the count, rang at 
the bell, and the door being opened, a servant bowed respectfully, 
and invited them to enter. They passed through two rooms, fur- 
nished with a style and luxury they had not calculated on finding 
under the roof, and were shown into an elegantly fitted-up room. 
•• If your excellencies will please to be seated,” said the man, “ I 
will let M. le Comte know you are here.” 

And with these words he disappeared behind one of th z portieres. 
As the door opened, the sound of a gnzla reached the ears of the 
young men, but was almost immediately lost, for the rapid closing 
of the door merely allowed one rich swell of harmony to enter the 
saloon. Franz and Albert looked inquiringly at each other, then 
at the gorgeous fittings-up of the apartment. All seemed even 
more splendid at a second view than it had done at their first rapid 
survey. 

•' Well,” said Franz to his friend, " what think you of all this?” 
•• Why, upon my soul, my dear fellow, it strikes me our elegant 
and attentive neighbor must either be some successful stock-jobber 
who has speculated in the fall of the Spanish funds or some prince 
traveling incog." 

“ Hush ! hush ! ” replied Franz. Almost immediately the tap- 
estry was drawn aside, and the owner of all these riches stood be- 
fore the two young men. Albert instantly rose to meet him, but 
Franz remained, in a manner, spell-bound on his chair, for in the 
person of him who had just entered he recognized not only the 
mysterious visitant to the Colosseum, and the occupant of the Ar- 
gentine box, but also his singular host at Monte-Cristo Island. 

“ Gentlemen,” said- the Count of Monte-Cristo as he entered, “ I 
pray you excuse me for suffering my visit to be anticipated ; but I 
feared to disturb you by presenting myself earlier at your apart- 
ments ; besides, you sent me word you would come to me, and I 
have held myself at your disposal.” 

“ Franz and I have to thank you a thousand times, M. le 
Comte,” returned Albert; 41 you extricated us from a great di- 
lemma, and we were on the point of inventing some very fantas' 
tic vehicle when your friendly invitation reached us.”- “ In- 

deed ! ” returned the count, motioning the two young men to sit 
down. “ It was the fault of that blockhead Pastrini, that I did 
not sooner assist you in your distress. He did not mention a syl- 
lable^ of your embarrassment to me, when he knows that, alone 
and isolated as I am, I seek every opportunity of making the 
acquaintance of my neighbors. As soon as I learned I could in 


«44 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRIS10. 


any way assist you, I most eagerly seized the opportunity of offer- 
ing my services.** The two young men bowed. Franz had, as 
yet, found nothing to say ; he had adopted no determination ; and as 
nothing in the count’s manner manifested the wish that he should 
recognize him, he did not know whether to make any allusion to 
the past, or wait until he had more proof ; besides, although sure 
it was he who had been in the box the previous evening, he could 
not be equally positive that he was the man he had seen at the 
Colosseum. He resolved, therefore, to let things take their course 
without making any direct overture to the count. Besides, he had 
this advantage over him, he was master of his secret, whilst he 
had no hold on Franz, who had nothing to conceal. However, 
he resolved to lead the conversation to a subject which might pos- 
sibly clear up his doubts. 

“Count,” said he, “ you have offered us places in your carriage, 
and at your windows of the Rospoli Palace. Can you tell us 

where we can obtain a sight of the Place del Popolo?” 

“Ah!** said the count, negligently, looking attentively at Mor~ 
cerf, “ is there not .^mething like an execution upon the Place del 
Popolo ? * * 

“Yes,** returned Franz, finding that the count was coming to 
the point he wished.— “ Stay, I think I told my steward yester- 
day to attend to this ; perhaps I can render you this slight service 
also.*’ He extended his hand, and rang the bell thrice. “ Did 
you ever occupy yourself,” said he to Franz, “ with the employ- 
ment of time and the means of simplifying the summoning your 
servants? I have: when I ring once, it is for my valet ; twice, 
for my steward ; thrice, for my steward : thus I do not waste a 
minute or a word. Here he is ! ’* A man of about five-and-forty 
to fifty entered, exactly resembling the smuggler who had intro- 
duced Franz into the cavern ; but he did not appear to recognize 
him. It was evident he had his orders. “ M. Bertuccio,” said 
the count, “ have you procured me windows looking on the Place 
del Popolo, as I ordered you yesterday? ** 

“Yes, excellency,” returned the steward ; “ it was let to Prince 
Lobanieff ; but I was obliged to pay a hundred- ” 

“ That will do — that will do, M. Bertuccio; spare these gentle- 
men all such domestic arrangements. You have the windows, 
that is sufficient. Give orders to the coachman ; and be in readi- 
ness on the stairs to conduct us to it.” The steward bowed, and 
was about to quit the room. “Ah! ** continued the count, “ be 
good enough to ask Pastrini if he has received the tavoletta , and 
if he can send us an account of the execution.” 

“There is no need to do that,” said Franz, taking out his tab- 
lets ; “ for I saw the account, and copied it down.” 

“Very well, you can retire, Bertuccio ; let us know when break- 
fast is ready. These gentlemen,” added he, turning to the two 
friends. «• wilh I trust, do me the honor to breakfast ? ** 


TflE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


*45 


«• But/’ said Albert, “ we snail abuse your kindness." 

«« Not at all ; on the contrary, you will give me great pleasure. 
You will, one or other of you, perhaps both, ^return it to me at 
Paris. Maitre Bertuccio, lay covers for three.” He took Franz’s 
tablets out of his hand. “ 4 We announce,’ he read, in the same 
tone with which he would have read a newspaper, 4 that to-day, 
the 23rd of February, will be executed Andrea Rondolo, etc., 
convicted of complicity with the detestable bandit Luigi Vampa, 
and the men of his troop/ Hum ! / The first will be broken on 
the wheel, the second beheaded.’ Yes,” continued the count, “ it 
was first arranged in this way ; but I think since yesterday some 
change has taken place in the order of the ceremony.” 

“Really ! ” said Franz. 

“ Yes, 1 passed the evening at Cardinal Rospigliosi’s, and there 
mention was made of something like a pardon lor one of the two 
men.” 

“ For Andrea Rondolo? ” asked Franz. 

“ No,” replied the count, carelessly ; “for the other (he glanced 
at the tablets as if to recall the name), for Peppino, alias Rocca 
Priori. You are thus deprived of seeing a man guillotined ; but 
the rnazzolato still remains, which is a very curious punishment 
when seen for the first time, and even the second, whilst the other, 
as you must know, is very simple. The mandaia never fails, 
never trembles, never strikes ineffectually. Ah!” added the 
count, in a contemptuous tone, “ do not tell me of European 
punishments, they are in the infancy, or rather the old age, of 
cruelty.” 

“Really,” replied Franz, “one would think that you had 
studied the different tortures of all the nations of the world.” 

“There are, at least, few that I have not seen,” said the count, 
coldly. 

“And you took pleasure in beholding these dreadful spectaeies? ” 

“My first sentiment was horror, the second indifference, the 
third curiosity.” “ Curiosity ! that is a terrible word.” 

“ Why so ? in my opinion, death may be a torture, but it is not 
an expiation.” 

“ I do not quite understand you,” replied Franz ; “ pray explain 
your meaning, for you excite my curiosity to the highest pitch.” 

“ Listen,” said the count, and deep hatred mounted to his face, 
as the blood would to the face of any other. ** If a man had by 
unheard-of and excruciating tortures destroyed your father, 
mother, or mistress ; in a word, one of those beings who, when 
they are torn from you, leave desolation, a wound that never closes 
in your breast, do you think the reparation that society gives you 
sufficient by causing the knife of the guillotine to pass between the 
base of the occiput and the trapezal muscles of the murderer, be- 
cause he who has caused us years of moral sufferings undergoes * 
few moments of phvsical pain ? M 
10 


146 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


“ Yes, I know,” said Franz, "that human justice is insufficient 
to console us ; she can give blood in return for blood, that is all ; 
but you must demand from her only what it is in her power to 
grant.” 

" I will put another case to you,” continued the count ; "that 
where society, attacked by the death of a person, avenges death 
by death. But are there not a thousand tortures by which a m cCb 
may be made to suffer without society taking the least cognizance 
of them, or offering him even the insufficient means of vengeance, 
of which we have just spoken ? Are there not crimes for which 
the impalement, the stake and the brand, are inadequate tortures, 
and which are unpunished by society ? Answer me, do not these 
crimes exist? ” 

" Yes,’' answered Franz ; “ and it is to punish them that duell* 
ing is tolerated.” 

" Ah, duelling ! M cried the count ; " a pleasant manner, upon 
my soul, of arriving at your end when that end is vengeance ! A 
man has carried off your mistress, seduced your wife, dishonored 
your daughter ; rendered the whole life of one who had the 
right to expect from Heaven that portion of happiness God has 
promised to every one, an existence of misery and infamy ; and 
you think you are avenged because you send a bullet through the 
head, or pass a sword through the breast, of that man who has 
planted madness in your brain, and despair in your heart. With- 
out recollecting that it is often he who comes off victorious from 
the strife, absolved of all crime in the eyes of the world ! No, 
no,” continued the count ; " had I to avenge myself, it is not thus 
I would take revenge.” 

" Then you disapprove of duelling ! you would not fight a 
duel?” asked Albert in his turn, astonished at this strange 
theory. 

"Oh, yes,” replied the count ; "understand me, I would fighf 
a duel for a trifle, for an insult, for a blow ; but the less so that/ 
thanks to my skill in all bodily exercises, and the indifference to 
danger I have gradually acquired, I should be almost certain to 
kill my man. Oh ! I would fight for such a cause ; but in return 
for a slow, profound, eternal torture, I would give back the same, 
were it possible : an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.” 

" But,” said Franz to the count, " with this theory, which renders 
you at once judge and executioner of your own cause, it would be 
difficult to adopt a course that would for ever prevent your falling 
under the power of the law. Hatred is blind ; rage carries you 
away ; and he who pours out vengeance, runs the risk of tasting 
a bitter draught.” 

" Yes, if he be poor and inexperienced ; not if he be rich and 
skilful ; beside the worst that could happen to him would be the 
punishment of which we have already spoken, and which the 
philanthropic French Revolution has substituted for being torn to 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


147 


pieces by horses or broken on the wheel. What matters this 
punishment, as long as he is avenged ? On my word, I almost 
regret that in all probability this miserable Peppino will not be 
decapitato , as you might have had ai&gt; opportunity then of seeing 
how short a time the punishment lasts, and whether it is worth 
even mentioning ; but, really, this is a most singular conversation 
for the Carnival gentlemen; how did it arise? Ah! I. recollect, 
you asked for a place at my window ; you shall have it ; but let 
us first sit down to table, for here comes the servant to inform us 
breakfast is ready.” As he spoke, a servant opened one of the 
four doors of the saloon, saying — 44 Al suo commodo /" The two 
young men rose and entered the breakfast-room. 

During the meal, which was excellent, and admirably served, 
Franz looked repeatedly at Albert, who ate like a man who for 
the last four or five months had been condemned to partake of 
Italian cookery — that is, the worst in the world. As for the count, 
he just touched the dishes ; he seemed as if he fulfilled the duties 
of an entertainer by sitting down with his guests, and awaited 
their departure to be served with some strange or more delicate 
food. This brought back to Franz, in spite of himself, the recol- 
lection of the terror with which the count had inspired the 
Countess and her firm conviction that the man in the opposite box 
was a vampire. At the end of the breakfast Franz took out his 

watch. 11 Well,” said the count, 44 what are you doing?”- 

44 You must excuse us,” returned Franz, 44 but we have still much 
to do. We have no disguises, and it is absolutely necessary to 
procure them.” 

44 Do not concern yourself about that ; we have, I think, a 
private room in the Place del Popolo ; I will have whatever cos- 
tumes you choose brought to us, and you can dress there.” 

44 After the execution?” cried Franz. 44 The scaffold forms 

part of the fete.” 

44 1 have reflected on the matter,” said Franz, 44 1 thank you for 
your courtesy, but I shall content myself with accepting a place 
in your carriage and at your window at the Rospoli Palace, and I 
leave you at liberty to dispose of my place at the Place del 
Popolo.” 

44 But I warn you, you will lose a very curious sight,” returned 
the count. 

44 You will relate it to me,” replied Franz, 44 and the recital 
from your lips will make as great an impression on me as if I had 
witnessed it. I have more than once intended witnessing an exe- 
cution, but I have never been able to make up my mind : and 
you, Albert ? ” 

44 1,” replied the viscount — 44 1 saw Castaing executed, but I 
think I was rather intoxicated that day, for I had quitted college 
the same morning, and we had passed the previous night at a 
tavern.” 


148 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


Besides it is no reason because you have not seen an execu« 
tion at Paris, that you should not see one anywhere else ; when 
you travel, it is to see everything. If you went to Spain, would 
you not see the bull-fights ? Well, suppose it is a bull-fight you 
are going to see ? Recollect the ancient Romans of the Circus, 
and the sports where they killed three hundred lions and a hun- 
dred men. Think of the eighty thousand applauding spectators, 
the sage matrons who took their daughters, and the charming 
Vestals who made with the thumb of their white hands the fatal 
sign that said, 4 Come, despatch this man, already nearly dead.’ ” 
“ Shall you go, then, Albert? ” asked Franz. 

44 Yes ; like you, I hesitated, but the count’s eloquence decides 

me ! ” “ Let us go, then,” said Franz, 44 since you wish it ; 

but on our way to the Piazza del Popolo, I wish to pass through 
the Corso. Is this possible ? ” 

44 On foot, yes ! in a carriage, no ! ” 

44 1 will go on foot, then ! ” 

44 Is it important that you should pass through this street? " 

44 Yes, there is something I wish to see ! ” 

44 Well, we will pass by the Corso. We will send the carriage 
to wait for us on the Piazza del Popolo, by the Strada del Babu- 
ino, for I shall be glad to pass, myself, through the Corso, to see 
if some orders I have given have been executed.” 

44 Excellency,” said a servant, opening the door, 44 a man in the 
dress of a penitent wishes to speak to you.” 

44 Ah ! yes ! ” returned the count, 44 I know who he is, gentle- 
men ; will you return to the salon ? you will find on the centre 
table some excellent cigars. I will be with you directly.” The 
young men rose and returned into the salon, whilst the count, 
again apologizing, left by another door. 

44 Well,” asked Franz, 44 what think you of the count of Monte- 
Cristo ? ” 44 What do I think?” said Albert, evidently sur- 

prised at such a question ; 44 1 think that he is a delightful fellow, 
who does the honors of his table admirably ; who has traveled 
much, read much, is, like Brutus, of the Stoic school, and more- 
over,” added he, sending a volume of smoke up towards the ceil- 
ing, 44 that he has excellent cigars.” Such was Albert’s opinion 
of the count, and as Franz well knew that. 44 But,” said he, 
44 did you remark one very singular thing. How attentively he 
looked at you.” 

44 Ah!” replied he, sighing, 44 that is not very surprising; 1 
I have been more than a year absent from Paris, and my clothes 
are of a most antiquated cut ; the count takes me for a rustic. 
The first opportunity you have, undeceive' him, I beg, and tell 
him I am nothing of the kind.” 

Franz smiled : an instant after, the count entered. 

44 1 am now quite at your service, gentlemen,” said he. 44 The 
carriage is going one way to the Place del Popolo, and we will go 


THE COUNT OF biONTE CRISTO. 149 

ianother ; and if you please, by the Corso. Take some more of 
these cigars, M. de Morcerf.” 

“With all my heart,” returned Albert; M these Italian cigars 
are horrible. When you come to Paris, I will return all this.” 

“ I will not refuse ; I intend going there soon, and since you al- 
low me, I will pay you a visit. Come ! we have not any time to 
lose, it is half-past twelve — let us set off! ” All three descended : 
the coachman received his master’s orders, and drove down the 
Via del Babuino. Whilst the three gentlemen walked towards 
the Place d’Espagne and the Via Frattina, which led directly be- 
tween the Fiano and Rospoli Palaces, all Franz’s attention was 
directed towards the windows of that last palace, for he had not 
forgotten the signal agreed upon between the man in the mantle 
and the Transtevere peasant. “Which are your windows?” 
asked he of the count, with as much indifference as he could as- 
sume. “ The three last,” returned he, with a negligence evidently 
unaffected, for he could not imagine with what intention the ques- 
tion was put. Franz glanced rapidly towards the three windows. 
The side windows were hung with yellow damask, and the centre 
•one with white damask and a red cross. The man in the mantle 
had kept his promise to the Transtevere, and there could now be 
no doubt that he was the count. The three windows were still un- 
tenanted. Preparations were making on every side ; chairs v/ere 
placed, scaffolds were raised, and windows were hung with flags. 
The masks could not appear ; the carriages could not move about ; 
but the masks were visible behind the windows, the carriages, 
and the doors. 

Franz, Albert and the count continued to descend the street : as 
they approached the Place del Popolo, the crowd became more 
dense, and above the heads of the multitude two objects were vis- 
ible ; the obelisk, surmounted by a cross, which marks the centre 
of the place, and before the obelish, at the point where the three 
streets meet, the two upright of the scaffold, between which glit- 
tered the curved knife of the manduia. At the corner of the street 
they met the count’s steward, who was awaiting his master. The 
window, let at an exorbitant price, which the count had doubtless 
washed to conceal from his guests, was on the second floor of the 
great palace, situated between the Rue del Babuino and the Monte 
Pincio. It consisted, as we have said, of a small dressing-room, 
opening into a bedroom, and when the door of communication 
was shut, the inmates were quite alone. On two chairs were laid 
as many elegant clown costumes in blue and white satin. “As 
you left the choice of your costumes to me,” said the count to the 
two friends, “ I have had these brought, as they will be the most 
worn this year ; and they are most suitable, on account of the 
confetti (sugarplums), as they do not show the flour.” 

Franz heat'd the words but imperfectly, and he perhaps did not 
fully apprecWle this new attention to their wishes ; for he was 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


ISO 

wholly absorbed by the spectacle that the Piazza presented, and 
by the terrible instrument that was in the centre. It was the first 
time Franz had ever seen a guillotine, — because the Roman man- 
data is formed on almost the same model as the French instru- 
ment : the knife, which is shaped like a crescent, that cuts with 
the convex side, falls from a less height, and that is all the differ- 
ence. Two men, seated on the movable plank on which the cul- 
prit is laid, were eating their breakfasts, whilst waiting for the 
criminal. Their repast consisted, apparently, of bread and sau- 
sages. One of them lifted the plank, took thence a flask of wine, 
drank some, and then passed it to his companion. These two 
men were the executioner’s assistants. At this sight Franz felt the 
perspiration start forth upon his brow. The prisoners, transported 
the previous evening from the Carcere Nuovo to the little church 
of Santa Maria del Popolo, had passed the night, each accompa- 
nied by two priests, in a chapel closed by a grating, before which 
were two sentinels, relieved at intervals. A double line of car- 
bineers, placed on each side of the door of the church, reached to 
the scaffold, and formed a circle round it, leaving a path about 
ten feet wide, and around the guillotine a space of nearly a hun- 
dred feet. What the count said was true — the most curious spec- 
tacle in life is that of death. And yet, instead of the silence and the 
solemnity demanded by the occasion, a noise of laughter and jest 
arose from the crowd : it was evident that this execution was, in 
the eyes of the people, only the commencement of the Carnival. 
Suddenly the tumult ceased, as if by magic ; the doors of the 
church opened. A brotherhood of penitents, clothed from head 
to foot in robes of grey sackcloth, with holes for the eyes alone, 
and holding in their hand a lighted taper, appeared first ; the 
chief marched at the head. Behind the penitents came a man of 
vast stature and proportions. He was naked, with the exception 
of cloth drawers, at the left side of which hung a large knife in a 
sheath, and he bore on his right shoulder a heavy mace. This 
man was the executioner. He had, moreover, sandals bound on 
his feet by cords. Behind the executioner came, in the order in 
which they were to die, first Peppino and then Andrea. Each 
was accompanied by two priests. Neither had their eyes ban- 
daged. Peppino walked with a firm step, doubtless aware of what 
awaited him. Andrea was supported by two priests. Each of 
them kissed, from time to time, the crucifix a confessor held out to 
them. At this sight alone Franz felt his legs tremble under him. 
He looked at Albert — he was white as his shirt, and mechanically 
cast away his cigar, although he had not half smoked it. The 
count alone seemed unmoved — nay, more, a slight color seemed 
striving to rise in his pale cheeks. His nostril dilated like a wild 
beast that scents its prey, and his lips, half opened, disclosed his 
white teeth, small and sharp like a jackal’s. And yet his features 
wore an expression of smiling tenderness, such as Franz had 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 


151 

never before witnessed in them ; his black eyes especially were 
full of kindness and pity. However, the two culprits advanced, 
and as they approached their faces became visible. Peppino was 
a handsome young man of four or five and twenty, bronzed by the 
sun ; he carried his head erect, and seemed to look on which side 
his liberator would appear. Andrea was short and fat ; his visage 
marked with brutal cruelty, did not indicate age ; he might be 
thirty. In prison he had suffered his beard to grow ; his head fell 
on his shoulder, his legs bent beneath him, and he seemed to obey 
a mechanical movement of which he was unconscious. 

“ I thought,” said Franz, to the count, 41 that you told me there 
would be but one execution ! ” 

“ 1 told you true,” replied he, coldly. 

• 4 However, here are two culprits.” 

44 Yes ; but only one of these two is about to die ; the other has 
long years to live ! ” 

“ If the pardon is to come there is no time to lose.” 

“And, see, here it is,” said the count. At the moment when 
Peppino arrived at the foot of the mandaia, a penitent, who 
seemed to arrive late, forced his way through the soldiers, and, 
advancing to the chief of the brotherhood, gave him a folded 
paper. The piercing eye of Peppino had noticed all. The chief 
took the paper, unfolded it, and, raising his hand, 44 Heaven be 
praised ! and his Holiness also ! ” said he, in a loud voice ; 14 here 
is a pardon for Peppino, called Rocca Priori.” And he passed 
the paper to the officer commanding the carbineers, who read and 
returned it to him. 

“ For Peppino ! ” cried Andrea, who seemed aroused from the 
torpor in which he had been plunged. “ Why for him and not 
for me ? We ought to die together. I was promised he should 
die with me. You have no right to put me to death alone. I will 
not die alone — I will not!” And he broke from the priests, 
struggling and raving like a wild beast, and striving desperately 
to break the cords that bound his hands. The executioner made 
a sign, and his assistant leaped from the scaffold and seized him. 

“ What is passing ? ” asked Franz of the count : for, as all this 
occurred in the Roman dialect, he had not perfectly comprehended 
it. 

44 Do you not see,” returned the count, 44 that this human creat- 
ure who is about to die is furious that his fellow-sufferer does not 
perish with him ? Here is a man who had resigned himself to his 
fate, who was going to the scaffold to die — like a coward, it is tru^, 
but he was about to die without resistance. Do you know wha', 
gave him strength? — do you know what consoled him! T t wa f , 
that another partook of his punishment — his anguish — and was *0 
die before him ! Lead two sheep to the butcher's, two oxen to 
the slaughterhouse, and make one of them understand his com- 
panion will not die : the sheen will bleat for pleasure „ the ox 


*52 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


bellow with joy. But man — man, whom God created in his own 
image — *nan, upon whom God has laid his first, his sole com- 
mandment, to love his neighbor — man, to whom God has given 
a voice to express his thoughts — what is his first cry when he 
hears his fellow-man is saved? A blasphemy ! Honor to man, 
this master-piece of nature, this king of the creation! ” And the 
count burst into a laugh ; but a terrible laugh, that showed he must 
have suffered horribly to be able thus to laugh. However, the 
struggle still continued, and it was dreadful to witness. The people 
all took part against A n dre a , n ty ^ iousand- v t ) i e e s-c ried ^ u Pu t 

him to death ! put him to dead*-! ” Franz sprang back, but the 
count seized his arm, and held him before the window. " What 
are you doing ? ” said he. “ Do you pity him ? If you heard the 
cry of 1 Mad dog ! ' you would take your gun — you would unhesi- 
tatingly shoot the poor beast, who, after all, was only guilty of 
having been bitten by another dog. And yet you pity a man who, 
without being bitten by one of his race, has yet murdered his ben- 
efactor ; and who, now unable to kill any one, because his hands 
are bound, wishes to see his companion in captivity perish. No, 
no-— look, look ! ” 

This recommendation was needless. Franz was fascinated by 
the horrible spectacle. The two assistants had borne Andrea to 
the scaffold, and there, spite of his struggles, his bites, and his 
cries, had forced him to his knees. During this time the execu- 
tioner had raised his mace, and signed to them to get out of the 
way ; the criminal strove to rise, but, ere he had time, the mace 
fell on his left temple. A dull and heavy sound was heard, and 
the man dropped like an ox on his face, and then turned over on 
his back. The executioner let fall his mace, drew his knife, and 
with one stroke, opened his throat, and mounting on his stomach, 
stamped violently on it with his feet. At every stroke a jet of 
blood sprang from the wound. 

This time Franz could sustain himself no longer, but sank, half 
fainting, into a seat. Albert, with his eyes closed, was standing 
grasping the window-curtains. The count was erect and trium- 
phant, like the Avenging Angel. 


CHAPTER XXII. 

THE CARNIVAL AT ROME. 

When Franz recovered his senses, he saw Albert drinking a 
glass of water, of which his paleness showed he stood in great 
need, and the count, who was assuming his costume. He glanced 
mechanically toward the place : all had disappeared — scaffold, 
executioners, victims ; nought remained but the people, full 'I 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO \ 


153 


noise and excitement. The bell of Monte Citorio, which only 
sounds on the pope’s decease and the opening of the Carnival, 
was ringing a joyous peal. 

" Well,” asked he of the count, 41 what has, then, happened ? ” 
“ Nothing,” replied the count ; " only, as you see, the Carnival 
has commenced. Make haste and dress yourself.” "In re- 

ality/' said Franz, "this horrible scene has passed away like a 
dream.” 

" It is but a dream — the nightmare that has disturbed you.' 8 
" Yes, that I have suffered ; but the culprit ? ” 

"That is a dream also ; only he has remained asleep, whilst 
you have awoke ; and who knows which of you is the most for- 
tunate ? ” 

" But Peppino — what has become of him? ” " Peppino is a 

lad of sense, who, unlike most men, who are furious if they pass 
unnoticed, was delighted to see that the general attention was 
directed toward his companion. He profited by this distraction 
to slip away amongst the crowd, without even thanking the 
Worthy priests who accompanied him. Decidedly man is an un* 
grateful and egotistical animal. But dress yourself ; see, M. de 
Morcerf sets you the example.” Albert was drawing on the 
satin pantaloon over his black pants and varnished boots. 

" Well, Albert,” said Franz, " do you feel much inclined to join 
the revels? Come, answer frankly.” 

"No,” returned Albert. " But I am really glad to have seen 
such a sight ; and I understand what the count said — that when 
you have once habituated yourself to a similar spectacle, it is the 
only one that causes you any emotion.” 

" Without reflecting, that this is the only moment in which you 
can study characters, said the count ; "on the steps of the scaf- 
fold death tears off the mask that has been w&gt;orn through life, and 
the real visage is disclosed. It must be allowed Andrea was not 
very handsome, the hideous scoundrel ! Come, dress yourselves, 
gentlemen, dress yourselves.” Franz felt it would be ridiculous 
not to follow' his two companions’ example. He assumed his cos- 
tume, and fastened on his mask, that scarcely equaled the pallor 
of his own face. Their toilette finished, they descended the car- 
riage awaited them at the door, filled with sweetmeats and bou- 
quets. They fell into the line of carriages. It is difficult to form 
an idea of the perfect change that had taken place. Instead of 
the spectacle of gloomy and silent death, the Place del Popolo 
presented a spectacle of gay and noisy mirth and revelry. Franz 
and Albert w^ere like men who, to drive away a violent sorrow^, 
have recourse to wine, and who, as they drink and become intoxi- 
cated, feel a thick veil drawn between the past and the present. 
They saw, or rather continued to see, the image of what they had 
witnessed but little by little the general vertigo seized them, and 


*54 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


they felt themselves obliged to take part in the noise and con* 

fusion. 

The strife had fairly commenced, and the recollection of what 
they had seen half an hour before was gradually effaced from 
the young men’s minds, so much were they occupied by the gay 
and glittering procession they now beheld. As for the Count of 
Monte-Cristo, he had never for an instant shown any appearance 
of having been moved. At the second turn the count stopped the 
carriage, and requested permission to quit them, leaving the vehicle 
at their disposal. Franz looked up — they were opposite the Ros- 
poli Palace. At the centre window, the one hung with white dam- 
ask with a red cross, was a blue domino, beneath which Franz’s 
imagination easily pictured the beautiful Greek of the Argentina. 
oa Gentlemen,” said the count, springing out, “when you are tired 
of being actors, and wish to become spectators of this scene, you 
know you have places at my windows. In the meantime, dispose 
of my coachman, my carriage, and my servants.” We have for- 
gotten to mention, that the count’s coachman was attired in a bear- 
skin, and the two footmen behind were dressed up as green mon- 
keys, with spring masks, which grimaced at every one who passed. 
Franz thanked the count for his attention. As for Albert, he was 
busily occupied throwing bouquets at a carriage full of Roman 
peasants passing hear him. At one of these encounters, accident- 
ally or purposely, Albert’s mask fell off. He instantly rose and 
cast the remainder of the bouquets into the carriage. Doubtless 
one of the charming females Albert had divined beneath their co- 
quettish disguise was touched by his gallantry ; for, in her turn, as 
the carriage of the two friends passed her, she threw a bunch of 
violets into it. Albert seized it, and as Franz had no reason to 
suppose it was addressed to him, he suffered Albert to retain it. 
Albert placed it in his button-hole, and the carriage went trium- 
phantly on. 

*° Well,” said Franz to him ; •• here is the commencement of an 
adventure.” 

The jest, soon appeared to become earnest ; for when Albert 
and Franz again encountered the carriage, the one who had 
thrown the violets to Albert, clapped her hands when she beheld 
them in his button-hole. 

flC Bravo ! bravo ! ” said Franz ; “ things go wonderfully. Shall 

I leave you ? Perhaps you would prefer being alone ? ” “ No 

replied he ; “I will not be caught like a fool at a first demonstra- 
tion by a rendezvous beneath the clock, as they say at the opera- 
balls. If the fair peasant wishes to carry matters any further, vre 
shall find her, or rather, she will find us to-morrow : then she will 
give me some sign or other, and I shall know what I have to do.” 

“ On my word,” said Franz, '• you are wise as Nestor and pru- 
dent as Ulysses, and your fair Circe must be very skilful or very* 
powerful if she succeed in changing you into a beast of any kind. ,# 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


i5S 


Albert was right ; the fair unknown had resolved, doubtless, to 
Carry the intrigue no farther ; for although the young men made 
several more turns, they did not again see the caleche, which had 
turned up one of the neighboring streets. Then they returned to 
the Rospoli Palace ; but the count and the blue domino had also 
disappeared ; the two windows, hung with yellow damask, were 
still occupied by the persons whom the count had invited. At this 
moment the same bell that had proclaimed the commencement of 
the mascherata sounded the retreat. The file on the Corso broke 
the line, and in a second all the carriages had disappeared. Franz 
and Albert’s coachman, without saying a word, drove up and 
stopped at the door of the hotel. Pastrini came to the door to receive 
his guests. Franz’s first care was to inquire after the count, and 
to express his regret that he had not returned in sufficient time to 
take him ; but Pastrini reassured him by saying, that the Count of 
Monte-Cristo had ordered a second carriage for himself, and that 
it had gone at four o’clock to fetch him from the Rospoli Palace. 
The count had, moreover, charged him to offer the two friends the 
key of his box at the Argentina. Franz questioned Albert as to 
his intentions ; but Albert had great projects to put into execution 
before going to the theatre ; and instead of making any answer, 
he inquired if M. Pastrini could procure him a tailor to make us 
between now and to-morrow two costumes of Roman peasants,'* 
returned Albert. 

“ We have them ready-made. Leave all to me ; and to-mor- 
row, when you wake, you shall find a collection of costumes with 

which you will be satisfied.” “My dear Albert,” said Franz, 

“ leave all to our host; he has already proved himself full of re- 
sources ; let us dine quietly, and afterwards go and see the 
Opera.” 

“Agreed,” returned Albert; “ but recollect, Pastrini, that both 
my friend and myself attach the greatest importance to having to- 
morrow the costumes we have asked for.” The host again as- 
sured them they might rely on him, and that their wishes should be 
attended to ; upon which Franz and Albert mounted to their apart- 
ments, and proceeded to disencumber themselves of their costume. 
Albert, as he took off his dress, carefully preserved the bunch of 
violets ; it was his sign of recognition for the morrow. The two 
friends sat down to table ; but they could not refrain from remark- 
ing the difference between the table of the Monte-Cristo and 
Pastrini. Truth compelled Franz, spite of the dislike he seemed 
to have taken to the count, to confess that the advantage was not 
on Pastrini’ s side. During dessert, the servant said : “ His ex- 

cellency the Count of Monte-Cristo had given positive orders that 
the carriage was to remain at their lordship’s orders all the day, 
and they could therefore dispose of it without fear of indiscre- 
tion.” 

They resolved to profit by the count’s courtesy, and ordered the 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


156 

ft@rses to be harnessed, whilst they substituted an evening costume 
for that which they had on, and which was somewhat the worse 
for the numerous combats they had sustained. This precaution 
taken, they went to the theatre, and installed themselves in the 
count's box. During the first act, the Countess Guiccioli entered 
hers. Her first look was at the loge where she had seen the count 
the previous evening, so that she perceived Franz and Albert in 
the box of the very person concerning whom she had expressed so 
strange an opinion to Franz. Her opera-glass was so fixedly di- 
rected toward them, that Franz saw it would be cruel not to sat- 
isfy her curiosity ; and, availing himself of one of the privileges 
of the spectators of the Italian theatres, which consists in using 
their boxes as their drawing-room, the two friends quitted their box 
to pay their respects to the countess. Scarcely had they entered, 
when she motioned to Franz to assume the seat of honor. Albert, 
in his turn, sat behind. 

“Well,” said she, hardly giving Franz time to sit down, “il 
seems you have nothing better to do than to make the acquaint- 
ance of this new Lord Ruthven, and you are the best friends in 

the world.” 

“ Without being so far advanced as that, Countess,” returned 
Franz, “I cannot deny we have abused his good nature all 

day.” 

“All day? You know him, then ? Very well. Did any one 
introduce you to him ?” 

“ No ; it was he who introduced himself to us, last night, after 

we left you.” 

“ Through what medium ? ” 

“ The very prosaic one of our landlord.” 

“ He is staying, then, at the Hotel de Londres with you? M 
“ Not only in the same hotel, but on the same floor.” 

“ What is his name : for, of course, you know?” 

“ The Count of Monte-Cristo, the name of the isle he has pur* 
chased.” 

“ And he is a count ? ” 

{ ’ A Tuscan count.” 

“Well, we must put up with that,” said the countess, herself of 
one of the oldest families of Venice. " What sort of a man is 

fcA?” 

“Ask the Viscount de Morcerf.” 

" You hear, M. de Morcerf, I am referred to you,” said the 
ccimtess. 

“We should be very hard to please, madam,” returned Albert, 
•" did we not think him delightful : a friend of ten years’ standing 
cculd not have done more for us, or with a more perfect courtesy.” 
" Come/’ observed the countess, smiling, “ I see my vampire 
only smne mifliqnaue, who has taken the appearance of Lara 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRIETO. 157 

Ih order to avoid being confounded with Rothschild ; and you 
have seen the beautiful Greek of yesterday/’ 

«&lt; No ; we heard, I think, the sound of her guzla, but she re- 
mained perfectly invisible.” “When you say invisible/* in. 

terrupted Albert, “it is only to keep up the mystery ; for whom 
do you take the blue domino at the window with the white cur- 
tains at the Rospoli Palace.” 

“ The count had three windows at the Rospoli Palace ? ** 

•* Yes. Did you pass through the Corso ? ” 

“Yes.” 

“ Well, did you remark two windows hung with yellow damask* 
and one with white damask with a red cross ? Those were the 
count’s windows? ” 

“ Why, he must be a nabob! Do you know what those thre* 
windows were worth? ” 

“ Two or three hundred Roman crowns?” 

“ Two or three thousand ! ” 

“ The devil ! ” 

“ Does his isle produce him such a revenue? 

“ It does not bring him a bajocco.” 

“ Then why did he purchase it? ” 

“ For a whim/* 

“ He is an eccentric, then? " 

“In reality,” observed Albert, ,c he seemed to me somewhat 
eccentric ; were he at Paris, and a frequenter of the theatres, I 
should say he was a poor devil literally mad. This morning he 
made two or three exits worthy of an actor.” At this moment 
fresh visitor entered, and, according to custom, Franz gave up h: 
seat to him. This circumstance had, moreover, the effect c 
changing the conversation ; an hour afterward the two friends re- 
turned to their hotel. Pastrini had already set about procuring 
their disguises for the morrow ; and he assured them they would 
be perfectly satisfied. The next morning, at nine o’clock, he en- 
tered Franz’s room, followed by a tailor, who had eight or ten cos. 
stumes of Roman peasants on his arm ; they selected two exactly 
alike, and charged the tailor to sew on each of their hats about 
twenty yards of riband, and to procure them two of those long 
silken sashes of different colors with which the lower orders de- 
corate themselves on holidays. Franz complimented Albert, who 
looked at himself in the glass with an unequivocal smile of satis- 
faction. They were thus engaged when the Count of Monte-Crista 
entered. 

“ Gentlemen,” said he, “ although a companion is agreeable, 
perfect freedom is sometimes still more agreeable. I come to say 
that to-day, and the remainder of the Carnival, I leave the car- 
riage entirely at your disposal. The host will tell you I have three 
or four more, so that you do not deprive me in any way of it, 
Employ it, I pray you, for your pleasure or your business.” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


IS" 

The young men wished to decline, but they could find no good 
reason for refusing an offer so agreeable to them. The Count ol 
Monte-Cristo remained a quarter of an hour with them, convers- 
ing on all subjects with the greatest ease. He was, as we have 
already said, perfectly well acquainted with the literature of all 
countries. A glance at the walls of his salon proved to Franz and 
Albert that he was an amateur of pictures. A few words he let 
fall showed them he was no stranger to the sciences, and he 
seemed much occupied with chemistry. The two friends did not 
venture to return the count the breakfast he had given them :* it 
would have been too absurd to offer him in exchange for his ex- 
cellent table the very inferior one of Pastrini. They told him so 
frankly, and he received their excuses with the air of a man who 
appreciated their delicacy. Albert was charmed with the count’s 
manners, and he was only prevented from recognizing him for a 
veritable gentleman by his science. The permission to do what he 
liked with the carriage pleased him above all, for the fair peasants 
had appeared in a most elegant carriage the preceding evening, 
and Albert was not sorry to be upon an equal footing with them. 
At half-past one they descended ; the coachman and footman had 
put on their livery over their disguises, which gave them a more 
ridiculous appearance than ever, and which gained them the ap- 
lause of Franz and Albert. Albert had fastened the faded 
unch of violets to his button-hole. At the first sound of the bell 
aey hastened into the Corso by the Via Vittoria. At the second 
turn, a bunch of fresh violets, thrown from a carriage filled 
with female clowns, indicated to Albert that, like himself and 
his friend, the peasants had changed their costume also ; and 
whether it was the result of chance, or whether a similar feeling 
had possessed them both, whilst he had changed his costume they 
had assumed his. 

It is almost needless to say that the flirtation between Albert and 
the fair peasant continued all day. In the evening, on his return, 
Franr found a letter from the embassy, to inform him he would 
have the honor of being received by his holiness the next day. On 
his return from the Vatican, Franz brought away with him a 
treasure of pious thoughts, to which the mad gaiety would have 
been profanation. At ten miuutes past five Albert entered over- 
joyed. The clown had resumed her peasant’s costume, and as 
she passed she raised her mask. She was charming. Franz con- 
gratulated Albert, who received his congratulations with the air of 
a man conscious they are merited. He had recognized, by certain 
unmistakable signs, that his fair incognita belonged to the aristoc- 
rasy. He had made up his mind to write to her the next day. 

The next morning he saw Albert pass and repass. He held an 
enormous bouquet, which he doubtless meant to make the bearer 
of his amorous epistle. This belief was changed into certainty 
VvTeo Fvttnsr a§uv the bouquet (re markable by a circle of whit# 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CJUSTO. 


*59 


camellias) \ n the hand of a charming clown dressed in rose 
•colored satin. The evening was no longer joy, but delirium 
Albert nothing doubted but that the fair unknown would reply 
in the same manner. Franz anticipated his wishes by telling him 
the noise fatigued him, and that he should pass the next day in 
writing and looking over his journal. Albert was not deceived, 
for the next evening Franz saw him enter shaking triumphantly a 
folded paper he held by one corner. “ Well,” said he,“ was I mis- 
taken ? ” “ She has answered you ! ” cried Franz. 

• c Read ! ” This word was pronounced in a manner impossible 
to describe. Franz took the letter, and read ; 

“ Tuesday evening, at seven o’clock, descend from your car- 
riage opposite the Via dei Pontefici, and follow the Roman peasant 
who snatches your moccoletto from you. When you arrive at the first 
step of the church of San Giacomo, be sure to fasten a knot of 
rose-colored ribands to the shoulder of your costume, in order that 
you may be recognized. Until then you will not see me. — Con- 
stancy and Discretion.” 

“Well,” asked he, when Franz had finished, “what do you 
think of that.” 

“ I think the adventure is assuming a very agreeable appear- 
ance.” 

“I think so also,” replied Albert; “ and I very much fear 
you will go alone to the Duke of Bracciano’s ball.” Franz and 
Albert had received that morning an invitation from the cele- 
brated Roman banker. “Take care, Albert,” said Franz. “All 
the nobility of Rome will be present ; and if your fair incognita 
belong to the higher class of society, she must go there.” 

“ Whether she goes there or not, my opinion is still the same,” 
returned Albert. 

“ If my unknown be as amiable as she is beautiful,” said Al- 
bert, “ I shall fix myself at Rome for six weeks, at least. I adore 
Rome, and I have always had a great taste for archaeology.” 

“ Come, two or three more such adventures, and I do not de« 
spair of seeing you a member of the academy.” Doubtless Al- 
bert was about to discuss seriously his right to the academic 
chair when they were informed dinner was ready. After dinner, 
the Count of Monte-Cristo was announced. They had not seen 
him for two days. Pastrini informed them that business had 
called him to Civita Vecchia. He had started the previous even- 
ing, and had only returned an hour since. The count had learned 
the two friends had sent to secure a box at the Argentina Theatre, 
and were told they were all let. In consequence, he brought 
them the. key of his own — at least such was the apparent motive 
of his visit. Franz and Albert made some difficulty, alleging their 
fear of depriving him of it ; but the count replied that. °as fcf 


160 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


was going to the Palli Theatre, the box at the Argentina would be 
lost if they did not profit by it. This assurance determined the 
two friends to accept it. 

Franz had become by degree accustomed to the count’s pale- 
ness, which had so forcibly struck him the first time fee saw him. 
He could not refrain from admiring the severe beauty of his feat- 
ures, the only defect, or rather the principal quality of which was 
the pallor. Veritable hero of Byron ! The count was no longer 
young. He was at least forty ; and yet it was easy to understand 
he was formed to rule the young men with whom he associated at 
present. In reality, to complete his resemblance with the fantastic 
heroes of the English poet, the count seemed to have the power of 
fascination. Albert was constantly expatiating on their good for- 
tune in meeting such a man. Franz was less enthusiastic ; but the 
count exercised over him also the ascendency a strong mind always 
acquires. 

At length arrived Tuesday, the last and most tumultuous day of 
the Carnival. Tuesday, the theatres open at ten o’clock in the 
morning, as Lent begins after eight at night. On Tuesday, all 
those who through want of money, time or enthusiasm, have not 
been to see the Carnival before, mingle in the gaiety, and contrib- 
ute to the noise and excitement. From two o’clock till five Franz 
and Albert followed in the fete, exchanging handfuls of confetti 
with the other carriages and the pedestrians, who crowded amongst 
the horses’ feet and the carriage wheels without a single accident, 
a single dispute, or a single fight. The fetes are veritable days of 
pleasure to the Italians. The author of this history, who has re- 
sided five or six years in Italy, does not recollect to have ever seen 
a ceremony interrupted by one of those events so common in other 
countries. Albert was triumphant in his costume. A knot of rose* 
colored ribands fell from his shoulder almost to the ground. In 
order that there might be no confusion, Franz wore his peasant’s 
costume. 

As the day advanced, the tumult became greater. There was 
not on the pavement, in the carriages, at the windows, a single 
tongue that was silent, a single arm that did not move. It was a 
human storm, composed of a thunder of cries, and a hail of sweet- 
meats, flowers, eggs, oranges, and nosegays. At three o’ clock the 
sound of fireworks, (heard with difficulty amid the din and cor' 
fusion) announced that the races were about to begin. The races, 
like the moccoli, are one of the episodes peculiar to the last days 
of the Carnival. At the sound of the fireworks the carriages in- 
stantly broke the ranks, and retired by the adjacent streets. All 
fhese evolutions are executed with an inconceivable address and 
marvellous rapidity, without the police interfering in the matter. 
The pedestrians ranged themselves against the walls ; then the 
trampling of horses and the clashing of steel were heard. A de- 
tachment of carabineers, fifteen abreast, galloped up the Corso in 


THE COUNT 01 MJNTE CRISTO . 


l6l 


order to clear it for the barberi. When the detachment arrived at 
the Place de Venise, a second volley of fireworks was discharged, 
to announce that the street was clear. Almost instantly, in the 
midst of a tremendous and general outcry, seven or eight horses, 
excited by the shouts of three hundred thousand spectators, passed 
by like lightning. Then the Castle of Saint Angelo fired three 
cannons to indicate that number three had won. Immediately, 
without any other signal, the carriages moved on, flowing on to- 
ward the Corso, down all the streets, like torrents pent up for a 
while, which again flow into the parent river ; and the immense 
stream again continued its course between its two banks of granite. 

A new source of noise and movement was added to the crowd. 
The sellers of moccoletti entered on the scene. The moccoli , or 
moccoletti , are candles which vary in size from the pascal taper to 
the rushlight, and which cause the actors on the great scene which 
terminates the Carnival two different sources of thought: — ist. 
How to preserve their moccoletto alight. 2nd. How to extinguish 
the moccoletti of others. The moccoletto is like life : man has 
found but one means of transmitting it. But he has discovered a 
thousand means of taking it away, although the devil has some- 
what aided him. The moccoletto is kindled by approaching it to a 
light. But who can describe the thousand means of extinguishing 
the moccoletto ? — the gigantic bellows, the monstrous extinguishers, 
the superhuman fans. Every one hastened to purchase moccoletti — 
Franz and Albert among the rest. 

The night was rapidly approaching ; and already, at the cry of 
" Moccoletto \ ” repeated by the shrill voices of a thousand ven- 
dors, two or three stars began to burn among the crowd. It was a 
signal. At the end of ten minutes fifty thousand lights glittered, 
descending from the Venice Palace to the Popolo, and mounting 
from the Popolo to the Venice. It seemed the fete of Jack-o’^ 
lanterns. It is impossible to form any idea of it without having 
seen it. Suppose all the stars had descended from the sky and 
mingled in a wild dance on the face of the earth ; the whole accom- 
panied by cries that were never heard in any other part of the 
world. The facchino follows the prince, the Transtevere the citi- 
zen, every one blowing, extinguishing, relighting. Had old 
Aeolus appeared at this moment, he would have been proclaimed 
king of the moccoli , and Aquilo the heir-presumptive to the throne. 
This flaming race continued for two hours ; the Corso was light af 
day ; the features of the spectators on the third and fourth stories 
were visible. Every five minutes Albert took out his watch ; at 
length it pointed to seven. The two friends were in the Via dei 
Pontefici. Albert sprang out, bearing his moccoletto in his hand. 
Two or three masks strove to knock his moccoletto out of his hand : 
but Albert, a first-rate pugilist, send them rolling in the street, one 
after the other, and continued his course towards the church of 
San Giacomo. The steps were crowded with masks, who strove to 

II 


1 62 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


snatch each other’s flambeau. Franz followed Albert with his eyes, 
and saw him mount the first step. Instantly a mask, wearing the 
well-known costume of a female peasant, snatched his moccoletto 
from him without his offering any resistance. Franz was too far 
off to hear what they said, but, without doubt, nothing hostile 
passed, for he saw Albert disappear arm-in-arm with the peasant 
girl. He watched them pass through the crowd some time, but at 
length he lost sight of them in the Via Macello. Suddenly the 
bell that gives the signal for the end of the Carnival sounded, and 
at the same instant all the moccoletti were extinguished as if by 
enchantment. It seemed as though one immense blast of the wind 
had extinguished every one. Franz found himself in utter dark- 
ness. The Carnival was finished. 


CHAPTER XXIII. 

THE CATACOMBS. 

In his whole life, perhaps, Franz had never before experienced 
so sudden an impression, so rapid a transition from gaiety to sad- 
ness, as in this moment. It seemed as though Rome, under the 
magic breath of some demon of the night, had suddenly changed 
into a vast tomb. By a chance, which added yet more to the in- 
tensity of the darkness, the moon, which was on the wane, did not 
rise until eleven o’clock, , and the streets which the young man 
traversed were plunged in the deepest obscurity. The distance 
was short : and at the end of ten minutes his carriage, or rather 
the count’s stopped before the Hotel de Londres. Dinner was 
waiting ; but as Albert had told him that he should not return so 
soon, Franz sat down without him. 

Franz resolved to wait for Albert as late as possible. He ordered 
the carriage, therefore, for eleven o'clock, desiring Pastrini to in- 
form him the moment Albert returned to the hotel. At eleven 
o’clock Albert had not come back. Franz dressed himself, and 
went out, telling his host that he was going to pass the night at the 
duke of Bracciano’s. The house of the Bracciano is one of the 
most delightful in Rome ; his lady, one of the last Colonnas, does 
its honors with the most consummate grace, and thus their fetes 
have a European celebrity. Franz and Albert had brought to 
Rome letters of introduction to them ; and the first question on 
Franz’s arrival was to ask him where was his traveling companion. 
Franz replied that he had left him at the moment they were about 
to extinguish the moccoli , and that he had lost sight of him in the 
Via Macello. " Then he has not returned ? ’’ said the duke. 

M I waited for him until this hour , 35 replied Franz. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 163 

••And do you know whither he went? ’ “ No, not precisely £ 

however, I think it was something very like a love assignation.” 
"You should not have allowed him to go,” said the duke to 
Franz ; " You, who know Rome better than he does.” 

*• You might as well have tried to stop number three of the 
steeds, who gained the prize in the race to-day,” replied Franz; 
•« and then, moreover, what could happen to him? ” 

"Who can tell? The night is gloomy, and the Tiber is very 
near the Via Macello.” Franz felt a shudder run through his 
veins at observing the feeling of the duke and the countess so 
much in unison with his own personal disquietude. “1 informed 
them at the hotel that I had the honor of passing the night here, 
duke,” said Franz, " and desired them to come and inform me of 
his return.” 

" Ah ! ” replied the duke, " here, I think, is one of my servants 
who is seeking you.” 

The duke was not mistaken ; when he saw Franz, the servant 
came up to him. " Your excellency,” he said, " the master of the 
Hotel has sent to let you know that a man is waiting for you with 
a letter from the Viscount de Morcerf.” "A letter from the vis- 

count ! ” exclaimed Franz. 

" And where is the messenger ! ” 

" He went away directly he saw me enter the ball-room to find 
you.” 

"Oh! ” said the countess to Franz, "go with all speed — poor 
young man ? Perhaps some accident has happened to him.” 
Franz took his hat and went away in haste. He had sent away 
his carriage with orders for it to fetch him at two o’clock : fortu- 
nately the Palazzo Bracciano, which is on one side in the Corso 
and on the other in the Place des Saints Apotres, is hardly ten 
minutes’ walk from the Hotel de Londres. As he came near the 
hotel, Franz saw a man in the centre of the street. He had no 
doubt that it was the messenger from Albert. The man was 
wrapped up in a large cloak. He went up to him, but, to his extreme 
astonishment, this individual first addressed him. " What wants 
your excellency of me?” inquired the man, retreating a step or 
two, as if to keep on his guard. 

"Are not you the person who brought me a letter,” inquired 
Franz, " from the Viscount Morcerf? ” 

" Your excellency’s name ” 

"Is Baron Franz d’Epinay.” 

" Then it is to your excellency that this letter is addressed.” 

“ Is there any answer? ” inquired Franz, taking the letter from 

him. 

“ Yes — your friend at least hopes so.” " Come up-stairs with 

me, and I will give it to you,” — I prefer waiting here,” said 

the messenger, with a smile* 

•• And w ky? 


164 the count of monte cr/sto. 


9t Your excellency will know when you have read the letter.” 

Franz entered the hotel. On the staircase he met Pastrini. 

** You have seen the man who desired to speak with you from 
your friend ? ” he asked of Franz. 

“ Yes, I have seen him,” he replied, “ and he has handed this 
tetter to me. Light the candle in my apartment, if you please.” 
The innkeeper gave orders to a servant to go before Franz with a 
candle. The young man had found Pastrini looking very much 
alarmed, and this had only made him the more anxious to read 
Albert’s letter ; and thus he went instantly towards the waxlight, 
and unfolded the letter. 

" My dear fellow, — The moment you have received this, 
have the kindness to take from my pocket-book, which you will find 
in the square drawer of the secretary, the letter of credit ; add your 
own to it, if it be not sufficient. Run to Torlonia, draw from him 
instantly four thousand piastres, and give them to the bearer. It 
is urgent that I should have this money without delay. I do not 
say more, relying on you as you may rely on me. 

“ Your friend, Albert de Morcerf. 

u P.S. — I now believe in Italian banditti.” 

Below these lines were written, in a strange hand, in Italian ; 
what reads in English thus : 

* ‘ If by six in the morning the four thousand piastres are not in 
my hands , by seven o clock the Visconnt Albert de Morcerf will have 
ceased to live." * ‘ Luigi Vamp a." 

This second signature explained all to Franz, who now under- 
stood the objection of the messenger to coming up into the apart- 
ment ; the street was safer for him. Albert, then, had fallen into the 
hands of the famous chief of banditti in whose existence he had for 
so long a time refused to believe. There was no time to lose. He 
hastened to open the secretaire, and found the pocket-book in the 
drawer, and in it the letter of credit. There were in all six thous- 
and piastres, but of these six thousand Albert had already expended 
three thousand. As to Franz, he had no letter of credit, as he 
lived at Florence, and had only come to Rome to pass seven or 
eight days ; he had brought but a hundred louis, and of these he 
had no more than fifty left. Thus seven or eight hundred piastres 
were wanting to them both to make up the sum that Albert re- 
quired. True, he might in such a case rely on the kindness of M. 
Torlonia. He was, therefore, about to return to the Palazza Brac- 
ciano without loss of time, when suddenly a luminous idea crossed 
his mind. He remembered the count of Monte-Cristo. Franz 
was about to ring for Pastrini, when that worthy presented him- 
self. Franz went along the corridor, and a servant introduced 


165 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRIS7V. 

him to the count. He was in a small cabinet which Franz had not 
yet seen, and which was surrounded with sofas. The count came 
towards him. 44 Well, what good wind blows you hither at this 
hour ?” said he ; “ have you come to sup with me ? It would be 
very kind of you.” 

No ; I have come to speak to you of a very serious matter.” 
Franz gave him Albert’s letter. 44 Read that,” he said. The 
count read it. 

“ Ah ! ah ! ” said he. 

«« Did you see the postcript? What think you of that! ” inquired 
Franz. 

11 Have you the money he demands ? ” 

“ Yes all but eight hundred piastres.” The count went to his 
secretary, opened it, and pulling out a drawer filled with gold, said 
to Franz, — 44 I hope you will not offend me by applying to any 
one but myself.” 

“ You see, on the contrary, I come to you first and instantly,” 

replied Franz. 4 * And I thank you ; have what you will ; ’’ and 

he made a sign to Franz to take what he pleased. 

“Is it absolutely necessary, then, to send the money to. Luigi 
Vampa? " asked the young man, looking fixedly in his turn at the 
count. 

“ I think that if you would take the trouble of reflecting, you 
could find a way of simplifying the negotiation,” said Franz. 

44 How so ? ” returned the count, with surprise. 

“ If we were to go together to Luigi Vampa, I am sure he would 
not refuse you Albert’s freedom.” 

“ What influence can I possibly have over a bandit ? ” 

44 Have you not saved Peppino’s life ? ” 

“ Ah ! ah ! ” said the count, “ who told you that ? ” 

“No matter, I know it.” The count knit his brows, and re- 
mained silent an instant. 44 And if I went to seek Vampa, would 
you accompany me ? ” 

41 If my society would not be disagreeable.” 44 Be it so. It 

is a lovely night, and a walk without Rome will do us both good. 
Where is the man who brought the letter? ” 

“In the street.” 

“ I must learn where we are going. I will summon him hither,” 
44 It is useless : he would not come up.” 

44 To your apartments perhaps ; but he will not make any diffi- 
culty in entering mine.” The count went to the window that 
looked on to the street, and whistled in a peculiar manner. The 
man in the mantle quitted the wall, and advanced into the centre 
of the street. 44 Salite ! ” said the count, in the same tone in which 
he would have given an order to his servant. The messenger 
obeyed without the least hesitation, but rather with alacrity, and, 
mounting the steps of the passage at a bound, entered the hotel; 
five seconds afterwards he was at the door of the cabinet. * 4 AL, 


1 66 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR1STO. 


it is you, Peppino,” said the count, But Peppino, instead of an^ 
swering, threw himself on his knees, seized the count’s hand, and 
covered it with kisses. 11 Ah,” said the count, “you have, then, 
not forgotten that I saved your life ; that is strange, for it is a week 
*go! ” 

“ No, excellency ; and never shall I forget it,” returned Peppino, 
With an accent of profound gratitude. 

“ Never ! That is a long time ; but it is something that you be- 
lieve so. Rise and answer.” Peppino glanced anxiously at Franz. 
“ Oh, you may speak before his excellency,” said he : “he is one 
of my friends. You allow me to give you this title? ” continued 
the count in French ; “ it is necessary to excite this man’s confi- 
dence.” 

“You can speak before me,” said Franz ; “ I am a friend of the 
count’s.” 

“ Good ! ” returned Peppino, “ I am ready to answer any ques- 
tion your excellency may address to me.” 

“ How did the Viscount Albert fall into Luigi’s hands? ” 

“Excellency, the Frenchman’s carriage passed several times 
the one in which was Teresa.” “ The chief’s mistress? ” 

“ Yes. The Frenchman threw her a bouquet ; Teresa returned 
it ; all this with the consent of the chief, who drove, as the coach- 
man,” replied Peppino. “Well, then, the Frenchman took off 
his mask; Teresa, with the chief’s consent, did the same. The 
Frenchman asked for a rendezvous ; Teresa gave him one — only, 
instead of Teresa, it was Beppo who was on the steps of the 
Church of San Giacomo.” 

“What! ” exclaimed Franz, “the peasant girl who snatched 
his moccoletto from him ” 

“ Was a lad of fifteen,” replied Peppino. “ But it was no dis- 
grace to your friend to have been deceived ; Beppo has taken in 
plenty of others.” 

“ And Beppo led him outside the walls? ” said the count. 

“ Exactly so ; a carriage was waiting at the end of Via Macello. 
Beppo got in, inviting the Frenchman to follow him, and he did 
not wait to be asked twice. He gallantly offered the right-hand 
seat to Beppo, and sat by him. Beppo told him he was going to 
take him to a villa a league from Rome ; the Frenchman assured 
him he would follow him to the end of the world. The coachman 
went up the Rue di Ripetta and the Porte San Paolo ; and when 
they were two hundred yards outside, as the Frenchman became 
somewhat too forward, Beppo put a brace of pistols to his head, 
the coachman pulled up, and did the same. At the same time, 
four of the band, who were concealed on the banks of the Almo, 
surrounded the carriage. The Frenchman made some resistance, 
and nearly strangled Beppo ; but he could not resist five armed 
men, and was forced to yield. They made him get out, walk 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


1 67 


along the banks of the river, and then brought him to Teresa and 
Luigi, who were waiting for him in the catacombs of St. Sebastian.” 

“Well,” said the count, turning towards Franz, “it seems to 
me that this is a very likely story. He is in a very picturesque 
place — do you know the catacombs of St. Sebastian?” 

“ I was never in them, but I have often resolved to visit them.” 

“Well, here is an opportunity. Have you a carriage ? ” 

“ No.” 

“That is of no consequence ; I always have one ready, day and 
night, I am a very capricious being, and I should tell you that 
sometimes when I rise, or after my dinner, or in the middle of the 
night. I resolve on starting for some particular point, and away I 
go.” The count rang, and a footman appeared. “ Order out the 
carriage,” he said, “and remove the pistols which are in the 
holsters. You need not awaken the coachman ; Ali will drive.” 
In a very short time the noise of wheels was heard, and the car- 
riage stopped at the door. The count took out his watch. “ Half- 
past twelve,” he said. “ We might start at five o’clock and be in 
time, but the delay may cause your friend to pass an uneasy night, 
and therefore we had better go with all speed to extricate him from 
the hands of the infidels.” 

Franz and the count went down-stairs, accompanied by Peppino. 
At the door they found the carriage. Ali was on the box, in whom 
Franz recognized the dumb slave of the grotto of Monte-Cristo. 
Franz and the count got into the carriage. Peppino placed him- 
self beside Ali, and they set off at a rapid pace. Ali had received 
his instructions, and reached the gates of St. Sebastian. There 
the porter raised some difficulties, but the Count of Monte-Cristo 
produced an authority from the governor of Rome to quit or enter 
the city at any and all hours of the day or night ; the portcullis 
was therefore raised, the porter had a louis for his trouble, and 
they went on their way. The road which the carriage now 
traversed was the ancient Appian Way, and bordered with tombs. 
From time to time, by the light of the moon, which began to rise. 
Franz imagined that he saw something like a sentinel appear from 
various points of the ruin, and suddenly retreat into the darkness 
on a signal from Peppino. A short time before they reached the 
circus of Caracalla the carriage stopped, Peppino opened the door, 
and the count and Franz alighted. 

“ In ten minutes,” said the count to his companion, “we shall 
arrive there.” 

He then took Peppino aside, gave him some order in a low 
voice, and Peppino went away, taking with him a torch, brought 
with them in the carriage. Five minutes elapsed, during which 
Franz saw the shepherd advance along a narrow path in the midst 
of the irregular ground which forms the convulsed soil of the 
plain of Rome, and disappear in the midst of the high red herbage, 
which seemed like the bristling mane of some enormous lion* 


i68 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


51 Now," said the count, “let us follow him.” Franz and the 
count in their turn then advanced along the same path, which led 
them by various ways, to a burial-ground. Five roads diverged 
like the rays of a star, and the walls, dug into niches, placed one 
above the other in the shape of coffins, showed that they were at 
last in the catacombs. In one of the cavities, whose extent it was 
impossible to determine, some rays of light were visible. The 
count laid his hand on Franz’s shoulder. “Would you like to see 
a camp of bandits in repose?” he inquired. “Come with me, 
then. Peppino, extinguished the torch.” Peppino obeyed, and 
Franz and the count were suddenly in utter darkness, only fifty 
paces in advance of them there played along the wall some red- 
dish beams of light, more visible since Peppino had put out his 
torch. They advanced silently, the count guiding Franz as if he 
had the singular faculty of seeing in the dark. Franz, himself, how- 
ever, distinguished his way more plainly in proportion as he ad- 
vanced towards the rays of light, which served them for guides : 
three arcades, of which the middle served as the door, offered 
themselves. These arcades opened on one side to the corridor, in 
which were the count and Franz, and on the other to a large square 
chamber, entirely surrounded by niches similar to those of which 
we have spoken. In the midst of this chamber were four stones, 
which had formerly served as an altar, as was evident from the 
cross which still surmounted them. A lamp, placed at the base of 
a pillar, lighted up with its pale and flickering flame the singular 
scene which presented itself to the eyes of the two visitors con- 
cealed in the shadow. A man was seated with his elbow leaning 
on the column, and was reading with his back turned to the ar- 
cades, through the openings of which the new-comers contem- 
plated him. This was the chief of the band, Luigi Vampa. 
Around him, and in groups, according to their fancy, lying in their 
mantles, or with their backs against a kind of stone bench, which 
went all round the Columbarium, were to be seen twenty brigands 
or more, each having his carbine within reach. At the bottom, 
silent, scarcely visible, and like a shadow, was a sentinel, who was 
walking up and down before a kind of opening, which was 
only distinguishable because in that spot the darkness seemed 
thicker. When the count thought Franz had gazed sufficiently on 
this picturesque tableau, he raised his finger to his lips, to warn 
him to be silent, and, ascending the three steps which led to the 
corridor of the Columbarium, entered the chamber by the centre 
arcade, and advanced towards Vampa who was so intent on the 
book before him that he did not hear the noise of his footsteps. 

u Who goes there ? ” cried the sentinel, less occupied, and who 
saw by the lamp’s light a shadow which approached his chief. At 
this sound, Vampa rose quickly, drawing at the same moment a 
pistol from his girdle. In a moment all the bandits were on their 
feet, and twenty carbines were levelled at the count “Well/* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


169 

saitf he, in a voice perfectly calm, and no muscle of his counte- 
nance disturbed, “ well, my dear Vampa, it appears” me that you 

receive a friend with a great deal of ceremony!” “Ground 

arms i ’’ exclaimed the chief, with an imperative sign of the hand, 
whilsi with the other he took off his hat respectfully ; then, turning 
to the singular personage who had caused this scene, he said, 
“Your pardon my lord, but I was so far from expecting the honor 
of a visit, that I did not really recognize you.” 

“Was it not agreed,” asked the count, “that not only my 
person, but also that of my friends, should be respected by you ? ” 

“And how have I broken that treaty, your excellency ? ” — ~— 
41 You have this evening carried off and conveyed hither Viscount 
Morcerf. Well,” continued the count, in a tone that made Franz 
shudder, “ this young gentleman is one of my friends — lodges in 
the same hotel as myself— has been up and down the Corso for 
eight hours in my private carriage, and yet, I repeat to you, you 
have carried him off, and conveyed him hither, and,” added the 
count, taking the letter from his pocket, “ you have seta ransom 
on him, as if he were an indifferent person.” 

“ Why did you not tell me all this — you?” inquired the brigand 
chief, turning towards his men, who all retreated before his look. 
“ Why have you exposed me thus to fail in my word towards a 
gentleman like the count, who has all our lives in his hands ? By 
heavens ! if I thought one of you knew that the young gentleman 
was the friend of his excellency, I would blow his brains out with 
my own hand ! ” 

“Well,” said the count, turning towards Franz, “ I told you 
there was some mistake in this.” 

“ Are you not alone ? " asked Vampa, with uneasiness. 

“ I am with the person to whom this letter was addressed, and 
to whom I desire to prove that Luigi Vampa was a man of his 
word. — Come, your excellency, here is Luigi Vampa, who will 
himself express to you his deep regret at the mistake he has com- 
mitted.” 

Franz approached, the chief advancing several steps to meet 
him. 

“ Welcome amongst us, your excellency / 1 he said to him ; “ you 
heard what the count just said, and also my reply ; let me add that 
I would not for the four thousand piastres at which I had fixed 

your friend’s ransom, that this had happened.” “ But,” said 

Franz, looking round him uneasily, “ where is the viscount ? — I do 
not see him.” 

“Nothing has happened to him, I hope?” said the count, 
frowningly. 

“ The prisoner is there,” replied Vampa, pointing to the hollow 
•pace in front of which the bandit was on guard, “ and I will go 
myself and tell him he is free. The chief went toward the place 
he had pointed out as Albert’s prison, and Franz and the count 


THE CO 'JNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


170 

followed him. 44 What is the prisoner doing ? ” inquired Vampa 
of the sentinel. 

“Captain,” replied the sentry, “I do not know, for the last 
hour I have not heard him stir.” 

44 Come in, your excellency,'* said Vampa. The count and 
Franz ascended seven or eight steps after the chief, who drew 
back a bolt, and opened a door. Then, by the gleam of a lamp, 
similar to that which lighted the Columbarium, Albert was to be 
seen wrapped up in a cloak which one of the bandits had lent him, 
lying in a corner in profound slumber. 4 4 Come ! ” said the count, 
smiling with his own peculiar smile, 44 not so bad for a man who is 
to be shot at seven o’clock to-morrow morning ! ” Vampa looked 
at Albert with a kind admiration ; he was not insensible to such a 
proof of courage. 

41 You are right,” he said ; 44 this must be one of your friends.” 
Then, going to Albert, he touched him on the shoulder, saying — 
44 Will your excellency please to awaken ? ” Albert stretched out 
his arms, rubbed his eyelids, and opened his eyes. 44 Ah ! ah ! ” 
said he , 44 is it you, captain ? You should have allowed me to have 
slept. I had such a delightful dream : I was dancing at Torlonia’s 
with the Countess.” Then he drew from his pocket his watch, 
which he had preserved, that he might see how time sped. 

44 Half-past one only,” said he. 44 Why the devil do you rouse 
me at this hour? ” 

44 To tell you that you are free, your excellency.” 

44 My dear fellow,” replied Albert, with perfect ease of mind, 
“remember, for the future, Napoleon’s maxim, 4 Never awaken 
me but for bad news ; ’ if you had let me sleep on, I should have 
finished my galop, and have been grateful to you all my life. So, 
then, they have paid my ransom ? ” 

44 No, your excellency ! A person to whom I can refuse nothing 
has come to demand you.” 

44 Really ! then that person is a most amiable person.” Albert 
looked round, and perceived Franz. 44 What!” said he, 44 is 
it you, my dear Franz, whose devotion and friendship are thus 
displayed? ” 

44 No, not I,” replied Franz, 44 but our neighbor, the Count of 
Monte-Cristo.” 

44 Ah! the count,” said Albert gaily, and arranging his cravat 
and wristbands, 44 you are really most kind, and I hope you will 
consider me as your eternally obliged, in the first place for the 
carriage, and in the next for this ! ” and he put out his hand to the 
count, who shuddered as he gave his own, but who nevertheless 
did give it. The bandit gazed on this scene with amazement ; he 
was evidently accustomed to see his prisoners tremble before him, 
and yet here was one whose gay temperament was not for a 
moment altered; as for Franz, he was enchanted at the way in 
which Albert had sustained the national honor in the presence of 


THE COUNT Of MONTE CRISTO. 


171 

foe bandit. “ My dear Albert,” he said, “ if you will make haste, 
ve shall yet have time to finish the night at Torlonia’s. You may 
:onclude your interrupted galop, so that you will owe no ill-will to 
Signor Luigi, who has, indeed, throughout this whole affair acted 

-ike a gentleman.” “ You are decidedly right, and we may 

reach the Palazzo by two o’clock. Signor Luigi,” continued 
Albert, “is there any formality to fulfil before 1 take leave of your 
excellency ? ” 

" None, sir,” replied the bandit, “ you are as free as air.” 

“ Well, then, a happy and merry life to you. Come, gentle- 
men, come.” 

And Albert, followed by Franz and the count, descended the 
itaircase/ crossed the square chamber, where stood all the bandits, 
hat in hand. “ Peppino*” said the brigand chief, “ give me the 
torch.” 

“ What are you going to do then? ” inquired the count. 

“ I will show you the way back myself,” said the captain. 

They advanced to the plain. “Ah! your pardon!” said 
Albert, turning round; “will you allow me, captain ? ” And he 
lighted his cigar at Vampa’s torch. •• Now, Count,” he said, “ let 
us on with all the speed we may. I am enormously anxious to 
finish my night at the Duke of Bracciano s.” They found the 
carriage where they had left it. The count said a word in Arabic 
to Ali, and the horses went off at great speed. It was just two 
o’clock by Albert’s watch when the two friends entered into the 
dancing-room. Their return was quite an event, but as they entered 
together, all uneasiness on Albert’s account ceased instantly. 
44 Madame,” said the Viscount Morcerf, advancing towards the 
countess, “ yesterday you were so condescending as to promise 
rie a galop ; I am rather late in claiming this gracious promise, 
but here is my friend, whose character for veracity you well 
know, and he will assure you the delay arose from no fault of 
mine. ’ And as at this moment the music gave the warning for 
the waltz, Albert put his arm round the waist of the countess, and 
disappeared with her in the whirl of dancers. In the meanwhile 
Franz was considering the singular shudder that had pervaded the 
count of Monte-Cristo’s frame at the moment when he had been, 
in some sort, forced to give his hand to Albert. 

Albert’s first words to his friend, on the following morning, con- 
tained a request that he would accompany him to visit the count ; 
true, he had warmly and energetically thanked him the previous 
evening ; but services such as he had rendered could never be too 
often acknowledged. Franz, who seemed attracted by some in- 
visible influence towards the count, in which terror was strangely 
mingled, felt an extreme reluctance to permit his friend to be ex- 
posed alone to the singular fascination the mysterious count seemed 
to exercise over him, and therefore made no objection to Albert's 
request, but at once accompanied him to the desired spot, a# 


172 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


after a short delay, the count joined them in the saloon. 44 M. le 
Comte,” said Albert, advancing to meet him, 44 permit me to repeat 
the poor thanks I offered last night, and to ask you whether, in 
my own person, my family, or connections, I can in any way serve 
you ? My father, the Comte de Morcerf, although of Spanish, 
origin, possesses considerable influence, both at the court of 
France and Madrid, and I unhesitatingly place the best services 

of myself, and all to whom my life is dear, at your disposal.” 

“ M. de Morcerf,” replied the count, 44 your offer, far from sur- 
prising me, is precisely what I expected from you, and I accept it 
in the same spirit of hearty sincerity with which it is made ; — nay, 
I will go still further, and say that I had previously made up my 
mind to ask a great favor at your hands.” — 44 Oh, pray name it.” 

41 1 am wholly a stranger to Pari-s — it is a city I have never yet 
seen ; but I have to ask you, my dear M. de Morcerf” (these words 
were accompanied by a most peculiar smile), “ whether you un- 
dertake, upon my arrival in France, to open to me the doors of 
that fashionable world of which I know no more than a Huron or 
native of Cochin-China?” 

41 Oh, that I do, and with infinite pleasure ? ” answered Albert; 
44 *and so much the more readily as a letter received this morning 
from my father summons me to Paris, in consequence of a treaty 
of marriage (my dear Franz, do not smile, I beg of you) with a 
family of high standing, and connected with the very elite of Pari- 
sian society.” 

44 Connected by marriage, you mean,” said Franz, laughingly, 

44 Well, nevermind how it is,” answered Albert, “it comes to 
the same thing in the end. Perhaps by the time you return to 
Paris, I shall be quite a sober, staid father of a family ! When 
do you propose going thither ? ” 

44 Have you made up your mind when you shall be there your- 
self?” 

44 Certainly I have ; in a fortnight or three weeks* time : that is 
to say, as fast as I can get there ! ” 

44 Nay,*’ said the count; 44 1 will give you three months ere I 
join you ; you see I make an ample allowance for all delays and 
difficulties.” 

44 And in three months* time,” said Albert, 44 you will be at my 
house? ” 

44 Shall we make a positive appointment for a particular day and 
hour?” inquired the count ; 44 only let me warn you that I am pro- 
verbial for my punctilious exactitude in keeping my engagements.” 

44 The very thing ! ” exclaimed Albert ; 44 yes, by all means, let 
us have this rendezvous duly drawn up and attested.” 

44 So be it, then,” replied the count, and extending his hand to- 
wards an almanac, suspended near the chimney-piece, he said, 
41 To-day is the 2ist of February ; ” and drawing out his watch, 
added, 44 it is exactly half-past ten o’clock. Now promise me to 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 




l&amp;member this, and expect me the 21st of May at the same hour 
in the forenoon/* 

11 Capital ! M exclaimed Albert : 44 and you shall find everything 
and everybody ready to receive you/* 

“ Well, since we must part/* said the count, holding out a hand 
to each of the young men, “ allow me to wish you both a safe and 
pleasant journey.” It was the first time the haad of Franz had 
come in contact with that of the mysterious individual before him, 
and unconsciously he shuddered at its touch, for it felt cold and 
icy as that of a corpse. 

The young men then rose, and, courteously bowing to their sin- 
gular acquaintance, quitted the room. “What is the matter?” 
asked Albert of Franz, when they had returned to their own apart- 
ments ; “ you seem more than commonly thoughtful.” — “I will 
confess to you, Albert,” replied Franz, •• that I am deeply puzzled 
to unravel thf real career of this strange count ; and the appoint- 
ment you hav® made to meet him in Paris fills me with a thousand 
apprehensions ** 

“ Then, listen to me.** Franz then related to his friend the story 
of Monte-Cristf\ Albert listened with the most profound attention. 
“ Well,” said 1 **, when Franz had concluded, " what do you find 
to object to in ad you have related ? The count is fond of travel- 
ling, and, being rich, possesses a vessel of his own. Now, byway 
of having a resting-place during his excursions, avoiding the 
Wretched cookery which has been trying its best to poison me dur- 
ing the last four months, while you have manfully resisted its effects 
for as many year!’, and obtaining a bed on which it is impossible to 
slumber, Monte-Cristo has furnished for himself a temporary abode 
where you first found him ; but, to prevent the possibility of the 
Tuscan government taking a fancy to his enchanted palace, and 
thereby depriving him of the advantages naturally expected from 
&lt;so large an outlay of capital, he has wisely enough purchased the 
island, and assumed the title of its count/’ “ Well,” said Franz, 
with a sigh, “do as you please, my dear viscount, for your argu- 
ments are beyond my powers of refutation. Still, in spite of all, 
you must admit that this count of Monte-Cristo is a most singular 
personage .” — t4 He is a philanthropist,” answered the other ; “ and 
no doubt his motive in visiting Paris is to compete for the Monthyon 
prize, given in the interests of virtue and humanity. If my vote 
and interest can obtain it for him, I will readily give him the one 
and promise the other. And now, my dear Franz, let us talk of 
something else. Come, shall we take our luncheon, and then pay 
a last visit to St. Peter’s? ” Franz silently assented ; and the fol- 
lowing afternoon, at half-past five o’clock, the young men parted, 
Albert de Morcerf to return to Paris, and Franz d’Epinay to pass 
a fortnight at Venice, 


174 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


CHAPTER XXIV. 

THE GUESTS. 

In the house in Helder street, where Albert had invited the count 
of Monte-Cristo, everything was being prepared on the morning of 
the 2 1 st of May to fulfil the engagement. Morcerf inhabited a 
summer house situated at the corner of a large court, and directly 
opposite another building, the servants’ apartments. Two win- 
dows only of the pavilion faced the street ; three other windows 
looked into the court, and two at the back into the garden. Be- 
tween the court and the garden, built in the heavy style of the im- 
perial architecture, was the large and fashionable dwelling of the 
Count and Countess Morcerf. A high wall surrounded the whole 
of the hotel, surmounted at intervals by vases filled with flowers, 
and broken in the centre by a large gate of gilt iron, which served 
as the carriage entrance. A small door, close to the lodge of the 
concierge, gave ingress and egress to the servants and masters 
when they were on foot. 

It was easy to discover that the delicate care of a mother, un- 
willing to part from her son, and yet aware he required the full 
exercise of his liberty, had chosen this habitation for Albert. On 
the other hand was visible the intelligent independence of youth, 
enchanted with the free and idle life of a young man. On the 
first floor were the same rooms, with the addition of a third, formed 
out of the ante-chamber : these three rooms were a salon, a 
boudoir, and a bedroom. The salon down-stairs was only an Al- 
gerian divan, for the use of smokers. The boudoir up-stairs com- 
municated with the bedchamber by an invisible door on the stair- 
case ; it was evident every precaution had been taken. Above 
this floor was a large study, which had been increased in size by 
pulling down the partitions ; a pandemonium, in which the artist 
and the dandy strove for pre-eminence. On the walls, over the 
doors on the ceiling, were swords, daggers, Malay creeses, maces, 
battle-axes, suits of armour, gilded, damasked, and inlaid, dried 
plants, minerals, and stuffed birds, opening their flame-colored 
wings as if for flight, and their beaks that never close. This was 
the favorite sitting-room of Albert. 

However, the morning of the appointment, the young man had 
established himself in the small parlor down-stairs. There, on a 
table, surrounded at some distance by a large and luxurious divan, 
every species of tobacco known, was exposed in those pots of 
crackled earthenware of which the Dutch are so fond ; beside 
them, in boxes of fragrant wood, were ranged, according to th^irr 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


175 

size and quality, pueros, regalias, havannas, and manillas ; and, 
in an open cabinet, a collection of German pipes, of chibooques, 
with their amber mouth-pieces ornamented with coral, and of 
narguillahs, with their long tubes of morocco, awaited the caprice 
or the sympathy of the smokers. Albert had himself presided at 
the arrangement, or, rather, the symmetrical derangement which, 
after coffee, the guests at a breakfast of modern days love to con- 
template through the vapor that escapes from their mouth, and 
ascends in long and fanciful wreaths to the ceiling. At a quarter 
to ten, a valet entered ; he composed with a little groom named 
John, and who only spoke English, all Albert’s establishment, al- 
though the cook of the hotel was always at his service, and on 
great occasions the count’s chasseur also. This valet, whose name 
was Germain, and who enjoyed the entire confidence of his young 
master, held in one hand a number of papers, and in the other a 
packet of letters, which he gave to Albert. Albert glanced care- 
lessly at the different missives, selected two written in a small and 
delicate hand, and inclosed in scented envelopes, opened them, 
and perused their contents with some attention. 

Albert threw himself on the divan, tore off the cover of two or 
three of the papers, looked at the playbills, made a face at per- 
ceiving they played an opera, and not a ballet ; hunted vainly 
amongst the advertisements for a new tooth-powder of which he 
had heard, and threw down, one after the other, the three leading 
papers of Paris, muttering, “These papers become more and more 
stupid every day.” A moment after, a carriage stopped before 
the door, and the servant announced M. Lucien Debray. A tall 
young man, with light hair, clear grey eyes, and thin and com- 
pressed lips, dressed in a blue coat with buttons of gold, beauti- 
fully carved, a white neckcloth, and a tortoiseshell eye-glass, sus- 
pended by a silken thread, and which, by an effort of the nerves, 
he fixed in his eye, entered, with a half-official air, without smiling 
or speaking. “Good-morning, Lucien! good-morning ! ” said 
Albert ; " your punctuality really alarms me. What do I say ? 
punctuality ! You, whom I expected last, you arrive at five min- 
utes to ten, when the time fixed was half-past? Have ministers 
resigned?” — “No, my dear fellow,” returned the young man, 
seating himself on the divan ; “ reassure yourself ; we are tottering 
always, but we never fall ; and I begin to believe that we shall 
pass into a state of innobility, and then the affairs of the Peninsula 
will completely consolidate us.” 

“Ah, true ! you drive Don Carlos out of Spain.” — *' No, no, my 
dear fellow, do not confound our plans. We take him to the 
other side of French frontier, and offer him hospitality at Bourges. 
All Paris knew it yesterday, and the day before it had already 
transpired on the Bourse, and M. Danglars (I do not know by 
what means that man contrives to obtain intelligence as soon as we 
do) made a million.'* 


ij6 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


“ I passed the night writing five-and-twenty despatches. I re* 
turned home at daybreak, and strove to sleep ; but my head 
ached, and I got up to have a ride for an hour. Dullness and 
hunger attacked me at once, — two enemies who rarely accompany 
each other, and who are yet leagued against me. I then recol- 
lected you gave a breakfast this morning, and here I am. I am 
hungry, feed me ; I am bored, amuse me.” 

“ It is my duty as your host,” returned Albert, ringing the bell, 
whilst Lucien turned over, with his gold-mounted cane, the papers 
that lay on the table. “ Germain, a glass of sherry and a biscuit. 
In the meantime, my dear Lucien, here are cigars — contraband, 
of course — try them, and persuade the minister to sell us such in- 
stead of poisoning us with cabbage-leaves.” 

** Really, my dear count,” replied Lucien, lighting a manilla at 
a rose-colored taper that burnt in a stand beautifully enamelled — 
“how happy you are to have nothing to do: you do not know 
your own good fortune ! ” 

“ And what would you do, my dear diplomatist,” replied Mo^. 
cerf, with a slight degree of irony in his voice, “ if you did noth- 
ing ? What! can you not amuse yourself? Well, I will amuse 
you.” “ How ? ” “ By introducing to you a new acquaint- 

ance.” 

“ A man or a woman ? ” 

“ A man.” 

“ I know so many already.” 

“ But you do not know this man.” 

“ Where does he come from — the end of the world?” 

“ Farther still, perhaps.” 

“The devil ! I hope he does not bring our breakfast with him.* 

“ Oh, no ; our breakfast comes from my father’s kitchen. Are 
you hungry ? ” 

“ Humiliating as such a confession is, I am. But I dined at 
Villefort’s, and lawyers always give you very bad dinners. You 
would think they felt some remorse ; did you ever remark that? ” 
“Ah! depreciate other persons’ dinners; you ministers give 
such splendid ones.” 

“ Yes ; but we do not invite people of fasjiion. If we were not 
forced to entertain a parcel of country boobies because they think 
and vote with us, we should never dream of dining at home, I as- 
sure you.” 

“ But I hear Beauchamp in the next room ; you can dispute to- 
gether, and that will pass away the time.” 

“ M. Beauchamp,” announced the servant “Enter, enter,” 
said Albert, rising and advancing to meet the young man. “ Here 
is Debray, who detests you without reading you, so he says.” 

“ He is quite right,” returned Beauchamp ; “ for I criticize him 
without knowing what he does.” 

“ Come, come ! that is not bad ! ” said Lucien. “ Why do you 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


1 77 


ft&amp;fc join Our party, my dear Beauchamp ? With your talents you 
would make your fortune in three or four years." 

.“.I onl y awa it one thing before following your advice ; that is, a 
minister who will hold office for six months. My dear Albert, one 
word ; for I must get poor Lucien a respite. Do we breakfast or 
dine . I must go to the Chamber, for our life is not an idle one." 

“ You only breakfast : I await two persons : and the instant they 
arrive we shall sit down to table." 

thought *" S ° * * w * d sta y » I must do something to distract my 

“ You are like Debray ; and yet it seems to me that when the 
minister is out of spirits, the opposition ought to be joyous " 

“ Ah, you do not know with what I am threatened. I shall hear 
this morning M. Danglars make a speech at the Chamber of Dep- 
uties ; and at his wife’s this evening I shall hear the tragedy of a 
peer of France. The devil take the constitutional government I 

choosTtTat'? " had ° Ur Ch ° 1Ce ' aS thCy Say ' at leaSt ' h ° W COuld we 
“ 1 understand ; you must lay in a stock of hilarity." 

“ Do not run down M. Danglars’ speeches," said Debray : “ he 
votes for you, for he belongs to the opposition " 

“ RfZ T he W0 K St 0f a11 •; 1 \ m waitin o until you send him to 
speak at the Luxembourg, to laugh at my ease " 

‘•My de ar friend,” said Albert to Beauchamp, “it is plain the 
affairs of Spain are settled, for you are most desperately out of hu- 
mor this morning. Recollect that Parisian gossip has spoken of a 
marriage between myself and Mile. Eugenie Danglars ; I cannot 
m conscience, therefore, let you run down the speeches of a man 

millions 1 ” nC y ^ t0 me ’ ' Y ° U know 1 S‘ ve ™y daughter two 

“Ah this marriage will never take place,” said Beauchamp. 
The king has made him a baron, and can make him a peer but 
he cannot make him a gentleman ; and the Count de Morcerfis 
too aris.ociatic to consent, for the paltry sum of eighty thousand 
a march io ne ™ e , s , a tance ' The Viscount de Morcerf can only wed 

" u u - 1 *T° mill . ioi ? s is a n ' c e little sum,” replied Morcerf. 

It is the capital of a theatre, or a local railroad ” 

marrvTr Tn What He Sa&gt; ; S ’ M , orcerf -” said Debray, “do you 
marry her You marry a ticket of a money-bag, it is true ; well 

"Now, then, to breakfast,” said Beauchamp - “for if I re. 
member, you told me you only expected two persons Albert ” 

M„ rr „. uVf. Bn ‘ t be&amp;Tito h"k fa. 

12 


i;8 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


ished, Chateau-Renaud, a handsome young man of thirty, a thor- 
ough gentleman took Albert’s hand. 

“ My dear Albert,” said he, “ let me introduce to you M. Maxi- 
milian Morrel, captain of Spahis, my friend ; and what is more — ’ 
however the man speaks for himself — my preserver. Salute my 
hero, viscount.” And he stepped on one side, exhibiting the large 
and open brow, the piercing eyes, and black moustache of the fine 
and noble young man whom our readers have already seen at 
Marseilles, under circumstances sufficiently dramatic not to be for- 
gotten. A rich uniform, half French, half Oriental, set off his 
broad chest, decorated with the order of the Legion of Honor, and 
his graceful and stalwart figure. The young officer bowed with 
easy and elegant politeness. “ Monsieur,” said Albert, with af- 
fectionate courtesy, “ Count Chateau-Renaud knew how much 
pleasure this introduction would give me ; you are his friend, be 
ours also.” 

“Well said!” interrupted Chateau-Renaud; “ and pray that, 
if you should ever be in a similar predicament, he may do as much 
for you as he did for me.” H What has he done?” asked Al- 

bert. 

“ You all know that I had the fancy of going to Africa.’* 

“It is a road your ancestors have traced for you,” said Albert, 
gallantly. 

“Yes, but I doubt that your object was like theirs — to rescue the 
Holy Sepulchre.” 

“ You are quite right, Beauchamp,” observed the young aristo- 
crat. “ It was only to fight as an amateur. I cannot bear duel- 
ling ever since two seconds, whom I had chosen to accommodate 
a quarrel, forced me to break the arm of one of my best friends, 
one whom you all know — poor Franz d’Epinay.” 

“ Ah, true ! ” said Debray, “ you did fight some time ago 
about what ? ” 

“The devil take r e, if I remember! ” returned Chateau-Re- 
naud. “ But I recollect perfectly one thing : that, being unwilling 
to let such talents as mine sleep, I wished to try upon the Arabs 
new pistols given to me. In consequence I embarked for Oran, 
and went from thence to Constantine, where I arrived just in time 
to witness the raising of the siege. I retreated with the rest, during 
eight-and-forty hours. I supported the rain during the day and 
the cold during the night tolerably well, but the third morning my 
horse died of cold. I was retreating on foot, for my horse was 
dead. Six Arabs came up, full gallop, to cut off my head. I shot 
two with my double-barrelled gun, and two more with my pistols, 
but I was then disarmed, and two were still left ; one seized me by 
the hair (that is why I now wear it so short, for no one knows 
what may happen), the other encircled my neck with the yata- 
ghan, when this gentleman whom you see here charged them, shot 
the one who held me by the hair with a pistol, and cleft the skull 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


179 


of the other with his sabre. He had assigned himself the task of 
saving the life of a man that day ; chance caused that man to be 
myself.” 

“ Yes,” said Morrel, smiling, “ it was the 5th of September, the 
anniversary of the day on which my father was miraculously pre- 
served ; therefore, as far as it lies in my power, I endeavor to cele. 
brate it by some ” 

“ Heroic action,” interrupted Chateau-Renaud. “ I was chosen. 
But this is not all : after rescuing me from the sword, he rescued 
me from the cold, not by sharing his cloak with me, like St. 
Martin, but by giving it me all ; then from hunger by sharing with 
me — guess what? ” 

“A Strasbourg pie ? ” asked Beauchamp. 

“ No, his horse ; of which we each of us ate a slice with a 
hearty appetite. It was very hard.” 

“The horse ! ” said Morcerf, laughing. 

“No, the sacrifice,” returned Chateau-Renaud. 99 What time 
do you breakfast, Albert ? ’ ’ 

“ At half-past ten.” 

“ Precisely ? ” asked Debray, taking out his watch.' 

“Oh ! you will give me five minutes’ grace,” replied Morcerf, 
91 for I also expect a preserver.” 

99 Of whom? ” 

“ Of myself,” cried Morcerf ; “ do you think I cannot be saved 
as well as any one else, and that only Arabs who cut off heads? 
Our breakfast is a philanthropic one, and we shall have at table 
— at least, I hope so — two benefactors of humanity.” 

“And where does he come from?” asked Debray. “You 
have already answered the question once, but so vaguely, that I 
venture to put it a second time.” 

“Really,” said Albert, “I do not know ; when I invited him 
three months ago, he was then at Rome, but since that time, who 
knows where he may have gone ? " 

“ And you think him capable of being exact ? ” demanded De- 
bray. 

“ I think him capable of everything.” 

“Well, with the five minutes’ grace, we have only ten left.” 

“ I will profit by them to tell you something about my guest. 
I was at Rome the last Carnival.” 

“ We know that,” said Beauchamp. 

“Yes, but what you do not know is that I was carried off by 
bandits, who conducted me to a most gloomy spot, called the 
Catacombs of Saint Sebastian.” 

“I know it,” said Chateau-Renaud; “I narrowly escaped 
catching a fever there.” 

“And I did more than that,” replied Morcerf, “ for I caught 
one. I was informed I was a prisoner until I paid the sum of 
4,000 Roman crowns — about 24,000 francs. Unfortunately, I had 


i8o 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


not above 1,500. I was at the end of my journey and of my 
credit. I wrote to Franz— and were he here he would con. 
firm every word — that if he did not come with the four 
thousand crowns before six, at ten minutes past I should 
have gone to join the blessed saints and glorious martyrs, in whose 
company I had the honor of being ; and Signor Luigi Vampa, 
such was the name of the chief of these bandits, would have 
scrupulously kept his word.” 

“But Franz did come with the four thousand crowns,” said 
Chateau-Renaud. “A d’Epinay or Morcerf has not much dif- 
ficulty in procuring them.” 

“No, he arrived accompanied simply by the guest I am going 
to present to you,” 

“Ah! this gentleman is a Hercules killing Cacus, a Perseus 
freeing Andromeda! ” 

“No, he is a man about my own size,** 

“ Armed to the teeth ? ” 

“ He had not even a knitting-needle.” 

“ But he paid your ransom ? ” 

“ He said two words to the chief, and I was free. ,f 
41 Why, he is a second Ariosto.” 

41 No, his name is the Count of Monte-Cristo.” 

“ There is no count of IVfonte-Cristo,” said Debray. 

“I do not think so,” added Chateau-Renaud, with the air of a 
man who knows the whole of the European nobility perfectly. 

“ Does any one know anything of a Count of Monte-Cristo?” 
“ He comes possibly from the Holy Land, and one of his an- 
cestors possessed Calvary, as the Montemarts did the Dead Sea.” 
“I think I can assist your researches,” said Maximilian. 
“ Monte-Cristo is a little island I have often heard spoken of by 
the old sailors my father employed — a grain of sand in the centre 
of the Mediterranean, an atom in the infinite.” 

Precisely ! ” cried Albert. “ Well, he of whom I speak is the 
lord and master of this grain of sand ; he has purchased the title 
of count somewhere in Tuscany.” 

“ He is rich, then? ” 

“ Have you read the * Arabian Nights * ? ” 

“ What a question ! ” 

“Well, do you know if the persons you see there are rich or 
poor, if their sacks of wheat are not rubies of diamonds ? They 
'seem like poor fishermen, and suddenly they open some mysterh 
'ous cavern filled with the wealth of the Indies.” 

“Go on!” 

“ My count of Monte-Cristo is one of those fishermen. He has 
even a name taken from the book, since he calls himself Sinbad 
the Sailor, and has a cave filled with gold.*' 

“ And you have seen this cavern, Morcerf? ” asked Beauchamp. 
44 No, but Franz has : for Heaven’s sake, not a word of this be- 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


i Si 

.ore nim. Franz went in with his eyes blindfolded, and was served 
by mutes and women to whom Cleopatra was nothing. Only he 
is not quite sure about the women, for they did not come in until 
a,fter he had taken some drug, so that what he took for women 
Might have been simply a row of statues.” 

The two young men looked at Morcerf as if to say, — 

“ Are you mad, or are you laughing at us? ” “ And I also," 

aid Morrel, thoughtfully, “have heard something like this from 
an old sailor named Penelon.” 

“ Ah ! " cried Albert, “it is very lucky that M. Morrel comes 
to aid me ; you are vexed, are you not, that he thus gives a clue 
to the labyrinth ? ” 

“My dear Albert,” said Debray, “what you tell us is so ex- 
traordinary. Every one has not black slaves, superb galleys, 
Arabian horses, and Greek mistresses.” 

“ Have you seen his Greek ? ” 

“ I have both seen and heard her. I saw her at the theatre, 
and heard her one morning when I breakfasted with the count.” 

“ He eats, then ? ” 

“ Ves ; but so little, it can hardly be called eating.’* 

“ He must be a vampire.” 

“Laugh, if you will ; the Countess Guiccioli, who had known 
Lord Ruthven, declared the count was a vampire.” 

“ Ah, capital 1 ” said Beauchamp. “ For a man not connected 
with newspapers, here is the pendant to the famous sea-serpent.” 
“ Wild eyes, the iris of which contracts or dilates at pleasure,” 
*aid Debray ; “facial angle strongly developed, magnificent fore- 
head, livid complexion, black beard, sharp and white teeth, polite- 
ness unexceptionable.” 

“ Just so, Lucien,” returned Morcerf ; “ you have described him 
feature for feature. Yes, keen and cutting politeness. This man 
has often made me shudder ! and one day that we were viewing 
an execution, I thought 1 should faint, more from hearing the 
cold and calm manner in which he spoke of every description of 
torture than from the sight of the executioner and the culprit.” 

Did he not conduct you to the ruins of the Colosseum and 
suck your blood? ” asked Beauchamp. 

** Or, after having delivered you, make you sign a blood-colored 
parchment surrendering your soul to him ? ” — “ Rail on, rail on at 
your ease, gentlemen,” said Morcerf, somewhat piqued. 

“ Confess you have dreamed this, and let us sit down to break- 
fast,” continued Beauchamp. But the sound of the clock had 
not died away when Germain announced, “ His Excellency the 
Count of Monte-Cristo.” The involuntary start every one gave 
proved how much Morcerf s narrative had impressed them, and 
Albert himself could not prevent sudden emotion. He had not 
heard a carriage stop in the street, or steps in the ante-chamber; 
the door had itself opened noiselessly. The count appeared, 


THE COUNT OF MONTE C JUS TO. 


l8l 

dressed with the greatest simplicity ; but the most fastidious dandy 
could have found nothing to cavil at in his toilette : every article, 
of dress — hat, coat, gloves, and boots — were from the first mak- 
ers. He seemed scarcely five-and-thirty. But what struck every- 
body was his extreme resemblance to the portrait Debray had 
drawn. The count advanced, smiling, into the centre of the room, 
and approached Albert, who hastened toward him, holding out his 
hand. 

“ Punctuality,” said Monte-Cristo, “is the politeness of kings, 
according to one of your sovereigns, I think ; but it is not the same 
with travelers. However, I hope you will excuse the two or three 
seconds I am behindhand ; five hundred leagues are not to be ac- 
complished without some trouble, and especially in France, where, 
it seems, it is forbidden to beat the postilions.’ * 

“ Count,” replied Albert, “ I was, announcing your visit to some 
of my friends, whom I had invited in consequence of the promise 
you did me the honor to make, and whom I now present to you. 
They are Count Chateau-Renaud, whose nobility goes back to the 
twelve peers, and whose ancestors had a place at the Round 
Table ; M. Lucien Debray, private secretary to the Internal De&lt; 
partment ; M. Beauchamp, an editor of a paper, and the terror oi 
the French Government, but of whom, in spite of his celebrity, 
you have not heard in Italy, since his paper is prohibited there ; 
and M. Maximilian Morrel, captain of Spahis.” 

At this name the count, who had hitherto saluted every one with 
courtesy, but at the same time with coldness and formality, 
stepped a pace forward, and a slight tinge of red colored his pale 
cheeks. “You wear the uniform of the new French conquerors, 
sir,” said he ; “it is a handsome uniform.” No one could have 
said what caused the count’s voice to vibrate so deeply, and what 
made his eye flash, in general so clear, lustrous, and limpid when 
he pleased. “You have never seen our African, Legion, Count? ” 
said Albert. “ Never,” replied the count, who was by this time 
perfectly master of himself again. 

“ Well, beneath this uniform beats one of the bravest and no- 
blest hearts in the whole army.” 

“Oh, M. de Morcerf! ” interrupted Morrel. 

“ Let me go on, captain ! And we have just heard,” continued 
Albert, “of a fresh action, and so heroic that, although I have 
seen him to-day for the first time, I request you to allow me to in- 
troduce him as my friend.” At these words it was still possible to 
remark in Monte-Cristo that fixed gaze, that passing color, and 
that slight trembling of the eyelid, that showed his emotion. “ Ah 1 
you have a noble heart,” said the count ; “ so much the better.” 
This exclamation, which corresponded to the count’s own thought 
rather than to what Albert was saying, surprised everybody, and 
especially Morrel, who looked at Monte-Cristo with surprise. But, 
at the same time, the intonation was so soft that, however strange 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 1 83 

the exclamation might seem, it was impossible to be offended at 

t# " Gentlemen,"' said Albert, “ Germain informs me breakfast is 
ready. My dear count, allow me to show you the way.” They 
passed silently into the breakfast-room ; every one took his place. 
“Gentlemen,’* said the count, seating himself, “permit me to 
make a confession which must form my excuse for any blunder I 
may commit. I am a stranger, and to such a degree, that this is 
the first time I have ever been at Paris. The French way of liv- 
ing is utterly unknown to me, and up to the present time I have 
followed the Eastern customs, entirely in contrast to the Parisian. 
I beg you, therefore, to excuse if you find anything in me too 
Turkish, too Italian, or too Arabian. Now, then, let us break- 
fast.” 

“With what an air he says all this!” muttered Beauchamp; 
•• decidedly he is a great man.” 

“ A great man in his country,” added Debray. 

** A great man in every country, M. Debray, M said Chateau- 
Renaud. The count was, it may be remembered, a most temper- 
ate guest. Albert remarked this, expressing his fears lest, at the 
outset, the Parisian mode of life should displease the traveler in 
the most essential point. ‘ ‘ My dear count,” said he, “ I fear one 
thing, and that is, that the fare of the Rue du Helder is not so 
much to your taste as that of the Place d’Espagne. I ought to 
have consulted you on the point, and have had some dishes pre- 
pared expressly.” -“Did you know me better,” returned the 

count, smiling, “you would not give one thought of such a thing 
for a traveler like myself. I eat everywhere, and of everything, 
only I eat but little ; and to-day, that you reproach me with my 
want of appetite, is my day of appetite, for I have not eaten since 
yesterday morning.” 

“ What ! ” cried all the guests, “ you have not eaten for four- 

and-twenty hours? ” “No,” replied the count ; “ I was forced 

to go out of my road to obtain some information near Nimes, so 
that I was somewhat late, and therefore I did not choose to stop.” 

“And you ate in your carriage?” asked Morcerf. “No, I 

slept, as I generally do when I am weary without having the cour- 
age to amuse myself, or when I am hungry without feeling inclined 
to eat.” 

“ But you can sleep when you please, monsieur? ” said Morrel. 

“Yes.” 

“ You have a receipt for it ? ” 

“An infallible one of which I make no secret of it. It is a 
mixture of excellent opium, which I fetched myself from Canton 
in order to have it pure, and the best hasheesh which grows in the 
east, — formed into pills. Ten minutes after one is taken, the effect 
is produced. Ask Baron Franz d’Epinay ; I think he tasted them 
one day,” 


1 84 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


“ Yes," replied Morcerf, “ he said something about it to me." 

“ But," said Beauchamp, who, in his capacity of journalist, was 

very incredulous, “you always carry tlvs dr ig about you ? " 

“ Always.” 

“ Would it be an indiscretion to ask to see those precious pills ? " 

continued Beauchamp, hoping to take him at a disadvantage. 

*• No, monsieur," returned the count ; and he drew from his 
pocket a marvellous bonbonniere , formed out of a single emerald, 
and closed by a golden lid, which unscrewed and gave passage to 
a small ball of a greenish color, and about the size of a pea. This 
ball had an acrid and penetrating odor. There were four or five 
more in the emerald, which would contain about a dozen. The 
bonbonniere passed round the table, but it was more to examine the 
admirable emerald than to see the pills that it passed from hand to 
hand. “And is it your cook who prepares these pills ? " asked 
Beauchamp. 

“ Oh, no, monsieur," replied Monte-Cristo ; “ I do not thus be- 
tray my enjoyments to the vulgar. I am a tolerable chemist, and 
prepare my pills myself." 

“ This is a magnificent emerald, and the largest I have ever 
seen," said Chateau-Renaud, “ although my mother has some re- 
markable family jewels." 

“I had three similar ones," returned Monte-Cristo. “ I gave 
one to the Grand, who mounted it in his sabre ; another to our 
holy father the Pope, who had it set in his tiara, opposite to nearly 
as large, though not so fine a one, given by the Emperor Napol- 
eon to his predecessor, Pius VII. I kept the third for myself, and 
I had it hollowed out, which reduced its value, but rendered it 
more commodious for the purpose I intended it for," Every one 
looked at Monte-Cristo with astonishment ; he spoke with so much 
simplicity that it was evident he spoke the truth, or that he was 
mad. However, the sight of the emerald made them naturally in- 
cline to the former belief. “ And what did these two sovereigns 
give you in exchange for these magnificent presents?" asked De- 
bray. “ The Grand Seignior, the liberty of a woman," replied 

the count ; “ the Pope, the life of a man ; so that once in my life 
I have been as powerful as if Heaven had made me come into the 
world on the steps of a throne." 

“ And it was Peppino you saved, was it not? " cried Morcerf; 
“ it was for him that you obtained pardon ? ” 

“ Perhaps," returned the count, smiling. 

“ Count, you have no idea what pleasure it gives me to hear 
you speak thus," said Morcerf. “ f had announced you before- 
hand to my friends as an enchanter of the * Arabian Nights,* or 
wizard of the Middle Ages ; but the Parisians are so subtle in 
paradoxes, that they mistake for caprices of the imagination the 
most incontestable truths, when these truths do not form a part of 
their daily existence. For example, here is Debray who reads 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 185 


and Beauchamp who prints, every day, * A member of the Jockey 
Club has been stopped and robbed on the Boulevard ; that four 
persons have been assassinated at St. Germain ; that ten, fifteen, 
or twenty thieves, have been arrested, and who yet contest the 
existence of the bandits of the Pontine Marshes. Tell them your- 
self that I was taken by bandits, and that without your generous 
intercession I should now have been sleeping in the catacombs of 
St. Sebastian, instead of receiving them in my humble abode in 
Helder Street.” 

44 Ah,” said Monte-Cristo, “ you promised me never to mention 

that circumstance.” “ It was not I who made that promise,” 

cried Morcerf ; 44 it must have been some one else whom you have 
rescued in the same manner, and whom you have forgotten. 
Pray speak of it, for I know not, how you contrived to inspire with 
such respect the bandits of Rome, who have so little respect for 
anything ; I assure you, Franz and I were lost in admiration.” 

44 Nothing more simple,” returned the count. 44 I had known 
the famous Vampa for more than ten years. When he was quite 
a child, and only a shepherd, I gave him, for having shown me 
the way to a place, some pieces of gold ; he, in order to repay 
me, gave me a poniard, the hilt of which he had carved with his 
own hand, and which you may have seen in my collection of arms. 
In after years whether he had forgotten this interchange of 
presents, which ought to have cemented our friendship, or whether 
he did not recollect me, he sought to take me, but, on the contrary, 
it was I who captured him and a dozen of his band. I might have 
handed him over to Roman justice, which is somewhat expeditious, 
and which would have been still more so with him ; but I did 
nothing of the sort — I suffered him and his band to depart.” 

44 With the condition that they should sin no more,” said Beau- 
champ, laughing. “ I see they kept their promise.” 

44 No,” returned Monte-Cristo, “ upon the simple condition that 
they should respect myself and my friends. Perhaps what I am 
about to say may seem strange to you, who vaunt humanity and 
your duty to your neighbor, but I never seek to protect society who 
does not protect me, and whom I will even say, in general, occu- 
pies itself about me only to injure me ; and thus giving them a low 
place in my esteem, and preserving a neutrality towards them, i( 

is society and my neighbor who are indebted to me.” * 

14 Bravo I ” cried Chateau-Renaud ; 44 you are the first man I ever 
met sufficiently courageous to preach egotism. Bravo ! ” 

41 It is frank, at least,” said Morrel. 41 But I am sure that the 
count does not regret having once deviated from the principles h$ 
has so boldly avowed.” 

44 How have I deviated from those principles, monsieur? ” asked 
Monte-Cristo, who could not help looking at Morrel with so much 
intensity, that two or three times the young man had been unable 
to sustain the clear and piercing eye of the count. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


1 86 

•• Why, it seems to me/* replied Morrel, 44 that in delivering M. 
de Morcerf, whom you did not know, you did good to your neigh* 
bor and to society.” — — 44 Of which he is the brightest ornament,” 
said Beauchamp, drinking off a glass of champagne. 

“ Count,” cried Morcerf, “you are at fault: you, one of tho 
most formidable logicians I know — and you must see it clearly 
proved, that instead of being an egotist, you are a philanthropist. 
The first day you set foot in Paris you instinctively possess the 
greatest virtue, or rather the chief defect, of us eccentric Paris- 
ians, — that is, you assume the vices you have not, and conceal the 

virtues you possess.” “ My dear sir,” returned Monte-Cristo, 

'• I do not see, in all I have done, anything that merits, either from 
;ou or these gentlemen, the pretended eulogies I have received. 
I will appeal to any of these gentlemen, could I leave my guest in 
the hands of a hideous bandit, as you term him ? Besides, you 
know, I had the idea that you could introduce me into some of 
the Paris salons when I came to France. You might some time 
ago have looked upon this resolution as a vague project, but to-day 
you see it was a reality, and you must submit to it under penalty 
of breaking your word.” 

“ I will keep it,” returned Morcerf; 41 but I fear that you will be 
much disappointed, accustomed as your are to picturesque events 
and fantastic horizons. France is so prosaic, and Paris so civi- 
lized a city, that you will not find in it a single hill on which there 
is not a telegraph, or a grotto in which the commissary of police 
has not put up a gas-lamp. There is but one service I can render 
you, and for that I place myself entirely at your orders : that is, to 
present, or make my friends present, you everywhere ; besides, 
you have no need of any one to introduce you — with your name, 
and your fortune, and your talent ” (Monte-Cristo bowed with a 
somewhat ironical smile) 44 you can present yourself everywhere, 
and be well received ; I can be useful in one way only — if knowl- 
edge of Parisian habits, of the means of rendering yourself com- 
fortable, or of the bazaars, can assist, you may dispose of me to 
find you a fitting dwelling here. I dare offer to share my apart- 
ments with you, as I shared yours at Rome — for, except myself, 
these rooms would not contain a shadow, unless it were the shadow 
of a female.” 

44 Ah,” said the count, 44 that is a most conjugal reservation ; I 
recollect that at Rome you said something of a projected marriage. 
May I congratulate you ? ” 

44 The affair is still in projection. My father is most anxious 
about it ; and I hope, ere long, to introduce you, if not to my wife, 
at least to my intended — Mdlle. Eugenie Danglars.” 44 Dang- 

lars ! ” said Monte-Cristo; 44 tell me, is not her father Baron 
Danglars ? ’ ’ 

44 Yes,” returned Morcerf ; 44 a baron of a new creation.” 

44 1 do not know him,” returned Monte-Cristo: 44 but I shah 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


187 

probably soon make his acquaintance, for I have a credit opened 
with him by the house of Richard and Blount, of London, Arstein * 
and Eskeles of Vienna, and Thomson and French at Rome.” As 
he pronounced the two last names, the count glanced at Maximil- 
ian Morrel. If the stranger expected to produce an effect he was 
not mistaken — Maximilian started as if he had been electrified, j 
“Thomson and French! ” said he ; “do you know this house, ; 
sir ? ” j 

“They are my bankers in the capital of the Christian world,” 
returned the count quietly. “ Can my influence with them be of 
any service to you ? ’ ’ 

“ Oh, my lord, you could assist me perhaps in researches which 
have been, up to the present, fruitless. This house, in past years, 
did ours a great service, and has, I know not for what reason, al- 
ways denied having rendered us this service.” 

“ I shall be at your orders,” said Monte-Cristo, inclining him- 
self. 

“ But,” continued Morcerf, “ we have strangely wandered from 
the subject. We were speaking of a suitable habitation for the 
count of Monte-Cristo. Come, gentlemen, let us all propose some 
place : where shall we lodge this new guest in our great capital ? " 

Various fashionable quarters were suggested. 

“You have no idea, then, Morrel?” asked Chateau-Renaud : 

“ you do not propose anything.” 

“ Oh, yes,” returned the young man, smiling ; “ on the contrary, 

I have one ; but I expected the count would be tempted by one of 
the brilliant proposals made him ; yet as he has not replied to any 
of them, I will venture to offer him a suite of apartments in a 
charming house in the Pompadour style, that my sister has in- 
habited for a year, in Meslay street.” 

“You have a sister?” asked the count. “Yes, sir, who 

married the man she loved, who remained faithful to us in our 
fallen fortunes — Emmanuel Herbaut.” Monte-Cristo smiled 
imperceptibly. “I live there during my leave of absence,” con- 
tinued Maximilian ; “ and I shall be, together with my brother-in- 
law Emmanuel, at the disposition of the Count, whenever he 
thinks fit to honor us.” 

“ Thanks, captain,” said Monte-Cristo; “ I shall content my- 
self with being presented to your sister and her husband, if you 
will do me the honor to introduce me ; but I cannot accept the 
offer of anyone of these gentlemen, since my habitation is already 
prepared. As I determined to have a house to myself, I sent on 
my valet, and he ought by this time to have bought the house and 
furnished it.” 

“ Have you, then, a man who knows Paris ? ” said Beauchamp. 

“It is the first time he has ever been in Paris. He is black, 
and cannot speak,” returned Monte-Cristo. 

9t It is Ali ! ” cried Albert, in the midst of the general surprise. 


1 88 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


“ Yes, Ali himself, my Nubian mute, whom you saw, I think, at 
Rome.” 

“Certainly,’* said Morcerf: “I recollect him perfectly. But 
how could you charge a Nubian to purchase a house, and a mute, 
to furnish it? — he will do everything wrong.” 

“Undeceive yourself, monsieur,” replied Monte-Cristo ; “lam 
quite sure, that, on the contrary, he will choose everything as I 
wish. He knows my tastes, my caprices, my wants ; he has been 
here a week, with the instinct of a hound, hunting by himself ; he 
will organize everything for me. He knew I should arrive to-day 
at ten o’clock ; since nine he awaited me at Fontainebleau. He 
gave me this paper ; it contains the number of my new abode ? 
read it yourself,” and Monte-Cristo passed a paper to Albert. 
“Ah, that is really original,” said Beauchamp. 

“And very princely,” added Chateatt-Renaud. 

“ What ! do you not know your house ? '* asked Debray. 

“ No,” said Monte-Cristo ; “I told you I did not wish to be 
behind my time ; I dressed myself in the carriage and descended 
at the Viscount's door.’’ The men looked at each other ; they 
did not know if it was a comedy Monte-Cristo was playing ; but 
every word he uttered had such an air of simplicity, that it Was 
impossible to suppose what he said was false : besides, why should 
he tell a falsehood? “We must content ourselves, then,” said 
Beauchamp, “ with rendering M. le Comte all the little services in 
our power. I, as a journalist, open all the theatres to him.” 

“ Thanks,” returned Monte-Cristo, “my steward has orders to 
take a box at each theatre.” 

“ Is your steward also a Nubian?” asked Debray. 

“ No, he is a countryman of yours, if a Corsican is a country* 
man of anyone’s. But you know him, M. de Morcerf.” 

“ Is it that excellent M. Bertuccio, who understands hiring win- 
dows so well ? ” “ Yes, you saw him the day I had the honor 

of receiving you ; he has been a soldier, a smuggler — in fact, 
everything. I would not be quite sure that he has not been mixed 
up with the police for some trifle — a stab with a knife, for in- 
stance.” 

“And you have chosen this honest citizen for your steward,” 
said Debray. “ Of how much does he rob you every year ? ” 

“On my word,” replied the count, “ not more than another. I 
am sure he answers my purpose, knows no impossibility, and so I 

keep him.” “Then,” continued Chateau-Renaud, “since you 

have an establishment, a steward, and a mansion in the Champs 
Elysees, you only want a housekeeper.” 

Albert smiled. He thought of the fair Greek he had seen in the 
count’s box at the theatres. 

“I have something better than that,” said Monte-Cristo ; “I 
have a slave. You procure yours from the Opera, the Vaudeville, 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 189 

or the Varietes ; I purchased mine at Constantinople : it cost me 
more, but I have nothing to fear.” 

•* But you forget,” replied Debray, laughing, “ that we are 
Frank by name and frank by nature, as King Charles said ; and 
that the moment she put her foot in France your slave become* 
free.” 

“ Who will tell her ? ” 

“ The first person who sees her." 

“She only speaks Romanic.” 

“ That is different.” 

“ But at least we shall see her,” said Beauchamp, u or do yotl 
keep eunuchs as well as mutes? ” 

“ Oh, no,” replied Monte-Cristo ; “ I do not carry brutalism so 
far. Everyone who surrounds me is free to quit me, and when 
they leave me will no longer have any need of me or any one 
else ; it is for that reason, perhaps, that they do not quit me.” 
They had long since passed to dessert and cigars. 

“ My dear Albert,” said Debray, rising, “ I must return to the 
minister’s. I will tell him of the count, and we shall soon know 
who he is.” 

“ Take care,” returned Albert ; •• no one has been able to ac- 
complish that.” 

“Oh, we have three millions for our police.” 

“ And when you know, will you tell me ? ” 

“ I promise you. Gentlemen, good morning.” 

“ Bravo ! ” said Beauchamp to Albert ; “ I shall not go to the 
house, but I have something better to offer my readers than a 
speech ofM. Danglars.” 

“For heaven’s sake, Beauchamp,” returned Morcerf, •• do not 
deprive me of the merit of introducing him everywhere. Is he not 
peculiar? ” 

“ He is more than that,” replied Chateau-Renaud ; “ he is one 
of the most extraordinary men I ever saw.” Morrel left the room 
with CMteau-Renaud, leaving Monte-Cristo alone with Morcerf. 


CHAPTER XXV. 

THE PRESENTATION, 

When Albert found himself alone with Monte-Cristo, he said : 
** Allow me to commence my ciceroneship by showing you a spec- 
imen of a bachelor’s apartment.” Monte-Cristo was a worthy ap- 
preciator of all that Albert had collected. 

Albert expected to have something new this time to show to the 
traveler, but, to his great surprise, the latter, without seeking for 
the signatures, many of which, indeed, were only initials, named 


190 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


instantly the author of every picture in such a manner that it -vvas 
easy to see that each name was not only known to him, but that 
each of their styles had been appreciated and studied by him. 
They passed into the bed-chamber ; a model of taste and simple 
elegance. A single portrait, signed Leopold Robert, shone in its 
carved and gilded frame. This portrait attracted the Count of 
Monte-Cristo’ s attention, for he made three rapid steps in the 
chamber, and stopped suddenly before it. It was the portrait of 
a woman of five and twenty, with a dark complexion, and light 
and lustrous eyes, veiled beneath long lashes. She wore the pic. 
turesque costume of the Catalian fisherwomen, a red and black 
bodice, and golden pins in her hair. She was looking at the sea, 
and her outline was defined on the blue ocean and sky. The, 
light was so faint in the room that Albert did not perceive the 
paleness that spread itself over the count’s visage, or the nervous 
heaving of his chest and shoulders. Silence prevailed for an in- 
stant, during which Monte-Cristo gazed intently on the picture. 

“You have there a most charming idol, viscount,” said the 
count in a perfectly calm tone ; “and this costume — a fancy one, 
doubtless — becomes her admirably.” 

“ Ah ! ” returned Albert, “ I would never forgive you this mis- 
take if you had seen another picture beside this. You do not 
know my mother ; she it is whom you see here : she had her por- 
trait painted thus six or eight years ago. This costume is a fancy 
one, it appears, and the resemblance is so great that I think I 
still see my mother the same as she was in 1830. The countess 
had this portrait painted during the count’s absence. She doubt- 
less intended giving him an agreeable surprise ; but, strange to 
say, this portrait seemed to displease my father, and the value of 
the picture, which is, as you see, one of the best works of Leopold 
Robert, could not overcome his dislike to it. It is true, between 
ourselves, that Morcerf is one of the most assiduous peers at the 
Luxembourg, a general renowned for theory, but a most mediocre 
amateur of art. It is different with my mother, who paints ex- 
ceedingly well, and who, unwilling to part with so valuable a pic- 
ture, gave it to me to put here, where it would be less likely to dis- 
please Morcerf, whose portrait, by Gros, I will also- show you. 
Excuse my talking of family matters ; but as I shall have the hon- 
or of introducing you to the count, I tell you this to prevent you 
making any allusions to this picture. The picture seems to have a 
malign influence, for my mother rarely comes here without look- 
ing at it, and still more rarely does she look at it without weeping. 
This disagreement is the only one that has ever taken place be- 
tween the count and countess, who are still as much united, 
although married more than twenty years, as the first day of their 
wedding.” 

Monte-Cristo glanced rapidly at Albert, as if to seek a hidden 
Waning it! his words ; but it was evident the young man uttered 


the count of monte cristo. 


19* 

them in the simplicity of his heart “ Now/* said Albert, “ that 
you have seen all my treasures, allow me to offer them to you, un- 
worthy as they are. You are somewhat used up, I know, and 
family scenes have not much effect on Sinbad the Sailor, who has 
seen so many others. However, accept what I propose to you as 
an initiation into Parisian life — a life of politeness, visiting, and in- 
troductions.” Monte-Cristo bowed without making any answer ; 
he accepted the offer without enthusiasm and without regret, as 
one of those conventions of society which every gentleman looks 
upon as a duty. Albert summoned his servant, and ordered him 
to acquaint M. and Mdme. de Morcerf of the arrival of the count 
of Monte-Cristo. Albert followed him with the count. When 
they arrived at the drawing-room the most conspicuous object was 
another portrait of a man, from five to eight-and-thirty, in the uni- 
form of a general officer ; the riband of the Legion of Honor 
round his neck, showed he was a commander ; and on the breast, 
on the right, the star of a grand officer of the Order of the Saviour, 
and on the left that of the grand cross of Charles III., which 
proved that the person represented by the picture had served in 
the wars of Greece and Spain ; or, the same thing as regarded 
decorations, had fulfilled some diplomatic mission. 

Monte-Cristo was engaged in examining this portrait with no 
less care than he had bestowed upon the other, when another door 
opened, and he found himself opposite to Count Morcerf himself. 
He was a man of forty-five years, but he seemed at least fifty, and his 
black moustache and eyebrows contrasted strangely with his al- 
most white hair, which was cut short, in military fashion. He 
was dressed in plain clothes, and wore at his button-hole the rib- 
ands of the different orders to which he belonged. This man en- 
tered with a tolerably dignified step, and with haste. Monte- 
Cristo saw him advance toward him without making a single 
step. It seemed as if his feet were rooted to the ground, and his 
eyes on Morcerf. 

“ Father,” said the young man, “ I have the honor of present- 
ing to you the Count de Monte-Cristo, the generous friend whom I 
had the good fortune to meet in the critical juncture of which I 
have told you.” 

“ You are most welcome, sir,** said Morcerf, saluting Monte-Cristo 
with a smile ; “and you have rendered our house, in preserving 
its only heir, a service which insures our eternal gratitude.** As 
he said these words, Morcerf pointed to a chair, whilst he seated 
himself in another opposite the window. 

Monte-Cristo, whilst he took the seat Morcerf offered him, placed 
himself in such a manner as to remain concealed in the shadow of 
the large velvet curtains, and read on the care-worn and livid 
features of the count a whole historv of secret griefs written in 
each wrinkle time had planted there. * The lady,” said Morcerf 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


19 2 

•• was at her toilette when she was informed of the visit she wa&amp; 
about to receive. She would, however, be down in ten minutes. 

“ It is a great honor for me,” returned Monte-Cristo, *‘tobe 
thus, on the first day of my arrival in Paris, brought in contact 
with a man whose merit equals his reputation, and to whom for. 
tune has for once been equitable ; but has she not still on the 
plains of Mitidja, or in the mountains of Atlas, a marshal’s staff tc 
offer you ? ” 

Oh,” replied Morcerf, reddening slightly, " I have left the serv- 
ice. Made a peer at the Restoration, I served through the first 
campaign under the orders of Marshal Bourmont. I could, there- 
fore, expect a higher rank, and who knows what might have hap* 
pened had the elder branch remained on the throne? But the 
Revolution of July was, it seems, sufficiently glorious to allow it- 
self to be ungrateful ; and it was so for all services that did not 
date from the imperial period. I tendered my resignation ; for 
when you have gained your epaulets on the battle-field, you do 
not know how to manoeuvre on the slippery floor. I have hung 
up my sword, and cast myself into politics. I have devoted my- 
self to industry ; I study the useful arts. During the twenty years 
I served, I often wished to do so, but I had not the time.” 

“ These are the ideas that render your nation superior to any 
other,” returned Monte-Cristo. " A gentleman of high birth, pos- 
sessor of an ample fortune, you have consented to gain your pro- 
motion as an obscure soldier, step by step — this is uncommon ; 
then become general, peer of France, commander of the Legion 
of Honor, you consent to again commence a second apprentice.* 
ship, without any other hope or any other desire than that of one 
day becoming useful to your fellow-creatures ; this, indeed, if 
praiseworthy, — nay, more, it is sublime.” Albert looked on and 
listened with astonishment ; he was not used to see Monte-Cristo 
give vent to such bursts of enthusiasm. “ Alas! ” continued the 
stranger, doubtless to dispel the slight cloud that covered Morcerf* 
brow, “ we do not act thus in Italy ; we grow according to our 
race and our species, and we pursue the same lines, and often the 
same uselessness, all our lives.” 

“ But,” said Morcerf, “ you have been free to choose your ca- 
reer, and you have chosen the path strewed with flowers.” 

“ Precisely,” replied Monte-Cristo, with one of those smiles 
that a painter could never represent or a physiologist analyze. 

** Ah ! here is my mother,” cried the viscount. Monte-Cristo 
turned round hastily, and saw Lady Morcerf at the door opposite 
to that by which her husband had entered, pale and motionless ; 
when Monte-Cristo turned round, she let fall her arm, which for 
some unknown reason had been resting on the gilded door-post. 
She had been there some moments, and had overheard the last 
words of the visitor. The latter rose and bowed to the countess, 
who inclined herself without speaking; 0 Ah ! good heavens. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTS 1 93 

madame ! ” said the count, “ are you unwell, or is it the heat oi 
the room that affects you ! ” 

“Are you ill, mother?” cried the viscount, springing towards 
her. 

She thanked them both with a smile. “ No,” returned she, 
“ but I feel some emotion on seeing, for the first time, the man 
without whose intervention we should have been m and des- 
olation. Sir,” continued the countess, advancing with the 
majesty of a queen, “ I owe to you the life of my son, and for this 
1 bless youo Now I thank you for the pleasure you give me in 
thus affording me the opportunity of thanking you as I have 
blessed you, from the bottom of my heart.” The count bowed 
again, but lower than before ; he was even paler than Mercedes. 
“My lady,” said he, “the count and yourself recompense too 
generously a simple action. To save a man, to spare a father’s 
feelings, or a mother’s sensibility, is not to do a good action, but a 
simple deed of humanity.” At these words uttered with the most 
exquisite sweetness and politeness, Lady Morcerf replied, — “ It is 
very fortunate for my son, that he found such a friend, and I thank 
God that things are thus.” And Mercedes raised her fine eyes 
to heaven with so fervent an expression of gratitude, that the 
count fancied he saw tears in them. Morcerf approached her. 
“Madame,” said he, “I have already made my excuses to the 
count for quitting him, and I pray you to do so also. The sitting 
commences at two ; it is now three, and I am to speak.” 

“ Go, then, and we will strive our best to forget your absence ! ” 
replied the countess, with the same tone of deep feeling. “ Count,” 
continued she, turning to Monte-Cristo, “ will you do us the hon- 
or of passing the rest of the day with us? ” 

“ Believe me, madame, I feel most grateful for your kindness, 
but I got out of my traveling carriage at your door this morning, 
and I am ignorant how I am installed in Paris, which I scarcely 
know ; tins is but a trifling inquietude, I know, but one that may 
be appreciated.” 

“ We shall have this pleasure another time ! ” said the countess ; 
“ you promise that?” Monte-Cristo inclined himself without an- 
swering ; but the gesture might pass for assent. “ I will not detain 
you,” continued the countess ; “ I would not have our gratitude 
become indiscreet or importunate.” 

“My dear count,” said Albert, “ I will endeavor to return your 
politeness at Rome, and place my coupe at your disposal until 
your own be ready.” 

“A thousand thanks for your kindness, viscount,” returned the 
lount of Monte-Cristo; “but I suppose that Bertuccio has suit- 
ably employed the four hours and a half I have given him, a&amp;d 
that I shall find a carriage of some sort ready at the door.” 
Albert was used at the count’s manner of proceeding : he knew 
tW*, like Nero, he was in search of the impossible, and nothing 

\\ — 


*94 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO \ 


astonished him ; only wishing to judge with his own eyes how fat 
the count’s orders had been executed, he accompanied him to the 
door of the hotel. Monte-Cristo was not deceived. As soon as 
he appeared in Morcerf’s ante-chamber, a footman, the same who 
at Rome had brought the count’s card to the two young men, and 
announced his visit, sprang into the vestibule, and when he ar- 
rived at the door the illustrious traveler found his carriage await- 
ing him. It was a first class coupe, and with horses and harness 
for which Drake had, to the knowledge of all the lions of Paris, 
refused on the previous day seven hundred guineas. 

“ Sir,” said the count to Albert, “ I do not ask you to accom» 
pany me to my house, as I can only show you a habitation fitted 
up in a hurry, and I have, as you know, a reputation to keep up 
as regards not being taken by surprise. Give me, therefore, one 
more day before I invite you ; I shall then be certain not to fail in 
my hospitality.” 

“ If you ask me for a day, count, I know what to anticipate ; it 
will not be a house I shall see, but a palace. You have decidedly 
some genius at your control.” 

‘‘Spread that idea,” replied Monte-Cristo, putting his foot on 
the velvet-lined steps of his splendid carriage, “ and that will be 
worth something to me among the ladies.” As he spoke, he 
sprang into the vehicle, the door was closed, but not so rapidly 
that Monte-Cristo perceived the almost imperceptible movement 
which stirred the curtains of the apartment in which he had left 
Lady Morcerf. When Albert returned to his mother, he found 
her in the boudoir reclining in a large velvet arm-chair ; the whole 
room so obscure that only the shining spangle, fastened here and 
there to the drapery, and the angles of the gilded frames of the 
pictures, gave a kind of light to the room. The young man, 
standing up before hen gazed upon her with that filial affection 
which is more tender and endearing with children whose mothers 
are still young and handsome. Then, seeing her eyes closed, but 
hearing her breathe gently, he believed she had dropped asleep, 
and left the apartment on tiptoe, closing the door after him with 
the utmost precaution. “This devil of a fellow,” he muttered, 
shaking his head ; “I said at the time he would create a sensation 
here, and I measure his effect by an infallibe thermometer. My 
mother has noticed him, and he must therefore, perforce, be re- 
markable.” He went down to the stables, not without some slight 
annoyance, when he remembered that the Count of Monte-Cristo 
had laid his hands on a “ turnout ” which sent his bays down to 
number 2 in the opinion of connoisseurs. “Most decidedly/' 
said he, “ men are not equal, and I must beg my father to develop 
this theorem in the Chamber of Peers.” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR1ST0. 


l 95 


CHAPTER XXVI. 

A SINGULAR STEWARD. 

During this time the count had arrived at his house ; it had 
taken him six minutes to perform the distance ; but these six 
minutes were sufficient to induce twenty young men who knew the 
price of the equipage they had been unable to purchase them- 
selves, to put their horses in a gallop in order to see the rich for- 
eigner who could afford to give 20,000 francs apiece for his horses. 
The house Ali had chosen, and which was to serve as a town resi- 
dence to Monte-Cristo, was situated on the right hand as you as- 
cended the Champs Elysees. A thick clump of tree and shrubs 
rose in the centre, and masked a portion of the front ; around this 
shrubbery two alleys, like two arms, extended right and left, and 
formed a carriage-drive from the iron gates to a double portico, on 
every step of which stood a porcelain vase, filled with flowers. 
This house, isolated from the rest, had, besides the main entrance, 
another in the Rue Ponthieu. Even before the coachman had 
hailed the janitor, the massy gates rolled on their hinges : — he 
had seen the count coming, and at Paris, as everywhere else, he 
was served with the rapidity of lightning. The coachman en- 
tered, and descending the half-circle without slackening his speed, 
the gates were closed ere the wheels had ceased to sound on the 
gravel. The carriage stopped at the left side of the portico, two 
men presented themselves at the carriage-window ; the one was 
Ali, who, smiling with an expression of the most sincere joy, 
seemed amply repaid by a mere look from Monte-Cristo. The 
other bowed respectfully, and offered his arm to assist the countin 
descending. “Thanks, M. Bertuccio,” said the count, springing 
lightly up the three steps of the portico ; “ and the notary ? ” 

“ He brought the transfer deeds of the property your excellency 
has purchased out of town.” 

No sooner was the master alone than he referred to a notebook 
with a lock-clasp. The key was hung on a chain round his neck. 
The item he looked at was “ Auteuil, No. 28, Fontaine Street.” 

“ It is the house just bought,” he muttered and now, am I to 
rely upon an avowal extorted by religious or physical terror? 
However, in an hour I shall know all. Bertuccio!” cried he, 
striking a light hammer with a pliant handle on a small gong. 
“Bertuccio!” The steward appeared at the door. “Monsieur 
Bertuccio,” said the count. “ did you never tell me that you had 
raveled in F ranee ? ” 


196 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. ' 

•• In some parts of France — yes, excellency.” 

“ You know the environs of Paris, then? ” 

“No, excellency, no,” returned the steward, with a sort of 
nervous trembling, which Monte-Cristo, a judge in all emotions, 
rightly attributed to great disquietude. 

“It is unfortunate,” returned he, “ that you have never visited 
the environs, for I wish to see my new property this evening, and 
had you gone with me, you could have given me some useful in- 
formation.” 

“To Auteuil ! ” cried Bertuccio, whose copper complexion be- 
came livid — “ I go to Auteuil?” 

“ Well, what is there surprising in that? When I liv# at 
Auteuil, you must come there, as you belong to my service.’’ It 
was unexampled for a servant of the count’s to dare to dispute an 
order of his ; so the steward, without saying a word, followad his 
master, who got into the carriage, and signed him to follow, #kich 
he did, seating himself respectfully on the front seat. 


CHAPTER XXVII. 

THE HOUSE OF AUTEUIL. 

Monte-Cristo had remarked that, as they descendti! the 
staircase, Bertuccio crossed himself in the Corsican manner, that is, 
had formed the sign of the cross in the air with his thumb, and as he 
seated himself in the carriage, muttered a short prayer. Any one but 
a curious man would have had pity on seeing the steward’s extra- 
ordinary repugnance for the count’s projected ride ; but it seemed 
the count was too curious to excuse Bertuccio this little journey. 
In twenty minutes they were at Auteuil. No. 28 was situated at 
the extremity of the village ; during the ride night had set in, or 
rather a black cloud, charged with electricity, gave to these 
vapors the appearance and solemnity of a dramatic episode. 
The carriage stopped, the footman sprang off the box, and opened 
the door “ Well,” said the count, “ you do not get out, M. Ber- 
tucdo — you are going to stay in the carriage, then ? What are 
you thinking of this evening ? ” Bertuccio sprang out, and offered 
his shoulder to the count, who, this time, leaned upon it as he de- 
scended the three steps of the carriage*. “ Knock,” said the 
count, “and announce me.” Bertuccio knocked, the door 
opened, and the porter appeared. “ What is it ? ” asked he. 

“ It is your new master, my good fellow,” said the footman. 
And he held out the notary’s order. 

“ The house is sold, then ? ” demanded he ; ** arid this gentle* 
man is coming to live here ? ” 

“ Yes, my friend,” returned the count ; “ and I will endeavor 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CEISTO. 


19 ? 


to give you no cause to regret your old master.” “ Oh,” said 

the man, 44 I shall not have much cause to regret him, for he came 
here but seldom ; it is five years since he was here last ; and he 
did well to sell the house, for it did not bring him in anything at 
all.” 

“ What was the name of your old master? ” said Monte-Cristo. 

44 The Marquis of Saint-Meran. Oh, lam sure he has not sold the 
house for what he gave for it.” 

" Saint-Meran ! ” returned the count. “The name is not un- 
known to me.” 

«*An old noblefaan,” continued the concierge, “ a staunch fol- 
lower of the Bourbons ; he had an only daughter, who married M. 
de Villefort, who had been the Nimes proctor and afterwards at 
Versailles.” Monte-Cristo glanced at Bertuccio, who became 
whiter than the wall against which he leaned to prevent himself 
from falling. “And is not this daughter dead?” demanded 
Monte-Cristo ; “ I fancy I have heard so.” 

41 Yes, sir, one-and-twenty years ago ; and since then we have not 
seen the poor marquis three times.” 

44 Thanks, thanks,” said Monte-Cristo, judging from the stew- 
ard’s utter prostration that he could not stretch the cord further 
without danger of breaking it. 

44 Bertuccio, take one of the carriage-lamps, and show me the 
apartments.” The steward obeyed in silence. 

44 Ah! here is a private staircase,” said the count; 4 4 that is 
convenient. Light me, M. Bertuccio, and go first ; we will see 
where it leads to.” 

44 Sir,” replied Bertuccio, 44 it leads to the garden.” 

44 And, pray, how do you know. that? ” 

44 It ought to do so, at least.” 

44 Well, let us be sure of that.” Bertuccio sighed, and went on 
first: the stairs led, in reality, to the garden. At the outer door 
the steward paused. 44 Go on, Bertuccio,” said the count. But 
he to whom he spoke was stupified, bewildered, stunned ; his hag- 
gard eyes glanced round, as if in search of the traces of some ter- 
rible event, and with his clenched hands he seemed striving to 
shut out some horrible recollections. 44 Well ! ” insisted the 
count. 44 No, no,” cried Bertuccio, setting down the lantern at 
the angle of the interior wall. 44 No, it is impossible ; I can go no 
further.” 

44 What does this mean?” demanded the irresistible voice of 
Monte-Cristo. 

44 Why, you must see,” cried the steward, 44 that this is not nat- 
ural ; that, having a house to purchase, you purchase it exactly at 
Auteuil ; and that, purchasing it at Auteuil, this house should be 
No. 28, Rue de la Fontaine. Oh ! why did I not tell you all ? I 
am sure you would not have forced me to come. I hoped your 
house would have been some other one than this ; as if there was 


198 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 

not another house at Auteuil than that of the assassination ! ”~— 
44 Ah ! ah ! ** cried Monte-Cristo, stopping suddenly, 44 what words 
did you utter? Devil of a man, Corsican that you are — always 
mysteries or superstitions. Come, take the lantern, and let us 
visit the garden ; you are not afraid of ghosts with me, I hope ? ” 
Bertuccio raised the lantern, and obeyed. The door, as it opened, 
disclosed a gloomy sky, in which the moon strove vainly to strug- 
gle through a sea of clouds that covered her with their sombre 
wave, that she illumined for an instant, and was then lost in the 
darkness. The steward wished to turn to the left. 44 No, no, 
monsieur/* said Monte-Cristo. 44 What is the use of following the 
jalleys? Here is a beautiful lawn ; let us go on straight forwards.” 

Bertuccio wiped the perspiration from his brow, but obeyed ; 
however, he continued to take the left hand. Monte-Cristo, on 
the contrary, took the right hand ; arrived near a clump of trees, 
he stopped. The steward could not restrain himself. 44 Move, 
monsieur — move away, I entreat you ; you are exactly in the 
spot ! ” 

44 What spot ? * * 4 4 Where he fell. ’ * 

44 My dear Bertuccio,” said Monte-Cristo, laughing, 44 recovei 
yourself ; we are no longer at Sart&amp;ne or at Corte. This is not a 
marsh but a garden ; badly kept, I own, but still you must not 
calumniate it for that/* 

44 5 implore you, do not stay there ! *’ 

44 1 think you are going mad, Bertuccio,*’ said the count coldly. 
44 If that is the case, I warn you, I shall have you put in a lunatic 
asylum.” 

44 But, my lord,” replied Bertuccio, hesitatingly, 44 did not 
Father Busoni, who heard my confession in the prison at N'imes, 
tell you I had a heavy reproach to make against myself? ** — — 
44 Yes ; but as he said you would make an excellent steward, 1 
concluded you had stolen — that was all. Or, as you are a Corsi- 
can, that you had been unable to resist the desire of making a 
a peau, as you call it.” 

44 Yes, my good master,” cried Bertuccio, casting himself at the 
count’s feet, 44 it was simply a vengeance — nothing else.” 

44 I understand that, but I do not understand what it is that gal- 
vanizes you in this manner.” — — 44 But, sir, it is very natural,” re- 
turned Bertuccio, 44 since it was in this house that my vengeance 

was accomplished.” “What! my house?” 44 Oh, it was 

not yours, then.” “Whose, then? The Marquis de Saint- 

Meran’s, I think, the porter said. What had you to revenge on 

Saint-Meran? ” 44 Oh, it was not on him, monsieur ; it was on 

another.” 

44 Well, come, collect yourself, and tell me all.” And the 
count, humming an air from Lucia , went to sit down on a bench, 
whilst Bertuccio followed him, collecting his thoughts. Bertuccio 
remained standing before him. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


195 


^The story begins in 1815.” 

•* Ah,” said Monte-Cristo, “ 1815 is not yesterday.” 

No ; and yet I recollect all things as clearly as if they had 
happened but then. I had a brother, an elder brother, who was 
in the service of the emperor ; he had become lieutenant in a reg- 
iment composed entirely of Corsicans. This brother was my only 
friend ; we became orphans — I at five, he at eighteen. He 
brought me up as if I had been his son, and in 1814 he married. 
When the emperor returned from the island of Elba, my brother 
instantly joined the army, was slightly wounded at Waterloo* and 
retired with the army behind the Loire. 

“ One day we received a letter. I should tell you that we lived 
in the little village of Rogliano, at the extremity of Cape Corse. 
This letter was from my brother. He told us that the army was 
disbanded, and that he should return ; and, if I had any money, 
he prayed me to leave it for. him at Nimes, with an innkeeper with 
whom I had dealings.” 

•* In the smuggling line ? ” said Monte-Cristo. 

“ Every one must live.” 

“ Certainly ; continue.” 

“I loved my brother tenderly, as I told your excellency, and I 
resolved not to send the money but to take it to him myself. I 
possessed a thousand francs. I left five hundred with Assunta, 
my sister-in-law, and with the other five hundred I set off for 
Nimes. 

“Just at this time the famous massacres of the south of France 
took place. Two or three brigands, called Trestaillon, Trup- 
hemy, and Graffan, publicly assassinated everybody whom they 
suspected of Bonapartism. As I entered Nimes, I literally waded 
in blood ; at every step you encountered dead bodies and bands 
of the murderers, who killed, plundered, and burned. I hastened 
to the inn. My presages had been but too true : my brother had 
arrived the previous evening at Nimes, and, at the very door of 
the house where he was about to demand hospitality, he had been 
assassinated. I did all in my power to discover the murderers, 
but no one durst tell me their names, so much were they dreaded. 
I then thought of that French justice of which I had heard so 
much, and which feared nothing and I went to the proctor, 
named Villefort ; he came from Marseilles, where he had been 
deputy. His zeal had procured him advancement, and he was 
said to be one of the first who had informed the government of 
the departure from the island of Elba. 

“ I said, * My brother was assassinated yesterday in the streets 
of Nimes, I know not by whom, but it is your duty to find out. 
You are the head of justice here, and it is for justice to avenge 
those she has been unable to protect.’ 

“ 1 Who was your brother? ’ asked he. * A lieutenant in the 

Corsican battalion. — ‘ A soldier of the usurper then l ‘ A 


200 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


soldier of the French army.* ‘Well/ replied he, ‘he has Strut* 

ten with the sword, and has perished by the sword.’ « You are 

mistaken, monsieur,* I replied ; ‘ he has perished by the dagger.' 
— 1 * What do you want me to do ? ’ asked the magistrate. — — * I 

have already told you — avenge him.* ‘On whom?’—-: — ‘On 

his murderers.’ ‘ How should I know who they are ?’ Or- 
der them to be sought for.’ ‘ Why, your brother has been in- 

volved in a quarrel, and killed in a duel. All these old soldiers 
commit excesses which were tolerated in the time of the emperor, 
but which are not suffered now ; for the people here do not like 

soldiers of such disorderly conduct.’ * Sir,’ I replied, ‘ it is not 

for tnyself that I entreat your interference — I should grieve for 
him or avenge him ; but my poor brother had a wife, and, 
were anything to happen to me, the poor creature would perish 
from want ; for my brother’s pay alone kept her. Pray, try and 
obtain a small government pension for her.’ 

“ ‘ Every revolution has its catastrophes,' returned M. de Ville- 
fort ; ‘ your brother has been the victim of this. It is a misfortune, 
and government owes nothing to his family. If we are to judge 
by all the vengeance that the followers of the usurper exercised 
on the partisans of the king, when, in their turn, they were in 
power, your brother would be to-day, in all probability, con* 
demned to death. What has happened is quite natural, and is 
only the law of reprisals.’ 

“ ‘What! * cried I, ‘do you, a magistrate, speak thus to me?* 

“ ‘ All you Corsicans are mad, on my honor,’ replied M. de Ville* 
fort ; ‘ they fancy that their countryman is still emperor. You 
have mistaken the time ; you should have told me this two 
months ago ; it is too late now. Depart instantly, or I will com- 
pel you to do so.’ 

“ I looked at him an instant to see if, by renewed entreaties, 
there was anything to hope. But this man was of stone. I ap- 
proached him, and said in a low voice, ‘ Well, since you know 
the Corsicans so well, you know that they always keep their 
word. You think that it was a good deed to kill my brother, 
who was a Bonapartist, because you are a royalist ! Well, I, who 
am a Bonapartist also, declare one thing to you, which is, that I 
will kill you ! From this moment I declare the vendetta against you ; 
so protect yourself as well as you can, for the next time we meet 
your last hour has come ! ” And before he had recovered from 
his surprise, I opened the door and left the room. 

“During three months I watched M. de Villefort; for three 
months he took not a step out of doors without my following 
him. At length I discovered that he went mysteriously to 
Auteuil. I followed him thither, and I saw him enter tne house 
where we now are ; only, instead of entering by the great door 
that looks into the street, he came on horseback, or in his car* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


201 


*iage, left the one or the other at the little inn, and entered by the 
gate you see there ! ” 

Monte-Cristo made a sign with his head that he could discern 
amid the darkness the door to which Bertuccio alluded. 

&lt;« As I had nothing more to do at Versailles, I went to 
Auteuil, and gained all the information I could. If I wished to 
surprise him, it was evident this was the spot to lie in wait for 
him. The house belonged to Saint-Meran, Villefort’s father-in- 
law. Saint-Meran lived at Marseilles so that this country house 
was useless to him, and it was reported to be let to a young 
widow, known only by the name of 1 the Baroness.’ 

41 One evening, as I was looking over the wall, I saw a young 
and handsome woman who was walking alone in that garden, 
which was not overlooked by any windows, and I guessed that 
she was awaiting M. de Villefort. When she was sufficiently near 
to distinguish her features, I saw she was from eighteen to nine- 
teen, tall and very fair. As she had a loose muslin dress on, and 
as nothing concealed her figure, I saw she would ere long be- 
come a mother. A few moments after, the little door was 
opened and a man entered ; the young female hastened to meet 
him ; they threw themselves into each other’s arms, embraced 
tenderly, and returned together to the house. This man was M. 
de Villefort ; I fully believed that when he went out in the nigh* he 
would be forced to traverse the whole of the garden alone. 

“That evening, I could have killed him; but as I was not 
sufficiently master of the localities, I was fearful of not killing him 
on the spot, and that, should his cries give the alarm, I could 
not escape, I put it off until the next occasion, and in order that 
nothing should escape me, I took a chamber looking into the 
street along which ran the wall of the garden. Three days after, 
about seven o’clock in the evening, I saw a servant on horseback 
leave the house at full gallop, and take the road that led to 
Sevres. I conjectured he was going to Versailles, and I was not 
deceived. Three hours after, the man returned covered with 
dust, his errand was performed : and ten minutes after, another 
man on foot, muffled in a mantle, opened the little door of the 
garden, which he closed after him. I descended rapidly ; al- 
though I had not seen Villefort’s face, I recognized him by the 
beating of my heart. I crossed the street, and stopped et a post 
placed at the angle of the wall, and by means of which I had 
once before looked into the garden. This time I did not con- 
tent myself with looking* but I took my knife out of my pocket, 
felt that the point was sharp, and sprang over the wall. My first 
care was to run to the door; he had left the key in it, taking 
the simple precaution of turning it twice in the lock. Nothing, 
then, preventing my escape by this means, I examined the lo- 
calities. The garden formed a long square ; a terrace of smooth 
lurf extended in the middle, and at the corners were islands of 


20 2 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


trees with thick and massy foliage, that mingled with the shrubs 
and flowers. In order to go from the door to the house, or from 
the house to the door, M. de Villefort was compelled to pass by 
one of these clumps. 

“It was the end of September; the wind blew violently. The 
faint glimpses of the pale moon, hidden at every instant by the 
masses of dark clouds that were sweeping across the sky, 
whitened the gravel walks that led to the house, but were un- 
able to pierce the obscurity of the thick shrubberies, in which a 
man could conceal himself without any fear of discovery. I hid 
myself in the one nearest to the path Villefort must take ; and 
scarcely was I there when, amidst the gusts of wind, I fancied 
I heard groans ; he who is about to commit an assassination 
fancies he hears low cries perpetually ringing in his ears. Two 
hours passed thus, during which I imagined I heard these moan? 
repeated. Midnight struck. As the last stroke died away, I saw 
a faint light shine through the windows of the private staircase by 
which we have just descended. The door opened, and the man 
in the mantle re-appeared. The terrible moment had come ! but 
I had so long been prepared for it that my heart did not fail in 
the least ; I drew my knife from my pocket again, opened it, and 
prepared myself to strike. The man in the mantle advanced to- 
ward me, but as he drew near I saw he had a weapon in his hand. 
I was afraid, not of a struggle, but of a failure. When he was 
only a few paces from me, I saw that what I had taken for a 
weapon was only a spade. I was still unable to divine for what 
reason M« de Villefort had this spade in his hands, when he 
stopped close to the clump, glanced round, and*began to dig a hole 
in the earth. I then perceived that he hid something beneath his 
mantle, which he laid on the grass in order to dig more freely. 
Then, I confess, curiosity became mixed with my hatred ; I 
wished to see what Villefort was was going to do there, and I re- 
mained motionless and holding my breath. Then an idea crossed 
my mind, which was confirmed when I saw the procureur du m 
lift from under his mantle a box, two feet long, and six or eight 
inches deep. 1 let him place the box in the hole he had made ; 
then, whilst he stamped with his feet to remove all traces of his oc- 
cupation, I rushed on him and plunged my knife into his breast, 
exclaiming, — * I am Giovanni Bertuccio ; thy death for my 
brother’s; thy treasure for. his widow; thou seest that my ven- 
geance is more complete than I had hoped.’ I know not if he 
heard these words ; I think he did not, for he fell without a cry, 
I felt his blood gush over my face, but I was intoxicated, I was 
delirious, and the blood refreshed, instead of burning me. In a 
second I had disinterred the box ; then, that it might not be 
known I had done so, I filled up the hole, threw the spade over 
the wall, and rushed through the door, which I doubled-locked» 
carrying off the key* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


203 


I hastened to the river, sat down on the bank, and with my 
knife forced open the lock of the box. In a fine linen cloth was 
wrapped a new-born child. As I had been assistant at the hospital 
at Bastia, I did what a doctor would have done — I inflated the 
lungs by blowing air into them, and at the expiration of a quarter 
of an hour, I saw the breathing commence, and a feeble cry was 
heard. In my turn I uttered a cry, but of joy. 'God has not 
cursed me then/ I cried, 'since he permits me to save the life of 
a human creature, in exchange for the life I have taken away.’ ” 
“ And what did you do with the child? ” asked Monte-Cristo. 

“ It was an embarrassing load for a man seeking to escape.” 

“ 1 had not for a moment the idea of keeping it, but I knew that 
at Paris there was an hospital where they receive these poor 
creatures. I wrapped half the linen round the child, whilst the 
other remained in my possession, I rang the bell, and fled with all 
speed. A fortnight after I was at Rogliano, and I said to As- 
sunta, — * Console thyself, sister ; Israel is dead, but he is avenged.’ 
She demanded what I meant, and when I had recounted all to her, 
* Giovanni,' said she, ‘you should have brought this child with you ; 
we would have replaced the parents it has lost, have called it 
Benedetto, and then, in consequence of this good action, God 
would have blessed us.' In reply I gave her the half of the linen 
I had kept in order to reclaim him if we became rich.’* 

“ What letters were marked on the linen?” said Monte-Cristo. 
“An H and an N, surmounted by a baron's coronet.” 

“ Partly to drown the recollections of the past that haunted me, 
partly to supply the wants of the poor widow, I eagerly returned 
to my trade of smuggler, which had become more easy since that 
relaxation of the laws which always follows a revolution. 

“ My journeys became more and more extensive and more pro- 
ductive. Assunta took care of all, and our little fortune increased. 
One day that I was setting off on an expedition, said she : ‘ on your 
return I will give you a surprise.* I questioned her but in vain ; 
she would tell me nothing, and I departed. When I entered the 
house, the first thing I beheld in the centre of Assunta’s chamber 
was a cradle that might be called sumptuous compared with the 
rest of the furniture, and in it a baby of seven or eight months old. 
Poor Assunta had guessed all. She had profited by my absence, 
and furnished with the half of the linen, and having w ritten down 
the day and hour at w r hich I had deposited the child at the hos- 
pital, had set off for Paris, and had reclaimed it. No objection was 
raised, and the infant was given up to her. 

“ God made this infant the instrument of our punishment. 
Never did a perverse nature declare it self more prematurely ; and 
yet it was not owing to any fault in his bringing up. He w r as a 
most lovely child. It is true that the indulgence of his mother en- 
couraged him. One day when Benedetto was about five or six, 
our neighbor Wasilio, who, according to the custom of the coun- 


204 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


try, never locked up his purse or his valuables — for, as your ex- 
cellency knows, there are no thieves in Corsica — complained that 
he had lost a louis out of his purse ; we thought he must have 
made a mistake in counting his money, but he persisted in the ac- 
curacy of his statement. One day, Benedetto, who had quitted the 
house since the morning, to our great anxiety, did not return until 
late in the evening, dragging a monkey after him, which he said 
he had found chained to the foot of a tree. For more than a month 
f past, the mischievous child, who knew not what to wish for, had 
;(taken it into his head to have a monkey. A boatman, who had 
i passed by Rogliano, and who had several of these animals, whose 
tricks had greatly diverted him, had, doubtless, suggested this 
idea to him* * Monkeys are not found in our woods chained to 
trees,’ said I ; 4 confess how you obtained this animal.’ Benedetto 
maintained the truth of what he had said, and accompanied it 
with details that did more honor to his imagination than to his 
veracity. I became angry ; he began to laugh ; I threatened to 
strike him, and he made two steps backwards. * You cannot beat 
me,’ said he ; 1 you have no right, for you are not my father.’ 

M We never knew who had revealed this fatal secret, which we 
had so carefully concealed from him ; however, it was this answer, 
in which the child’s whole character revealed itself, that almost 
terrified me, and my arm fell without touching him. The boy 
triumphed, and this victory rendered him so audacious, that all the 
money of Assunta, whose affection for him seemed to increase as 
he became more unworthy of it, was spent in caprices she knew 
not how to contend against, and follies she had not the courage to 
prevent. When he was only eleven, he chose his companions from 
among the young men of eighteen or twenty, the worst characters 
in Bastia, or, indeed, in Corsica : and they had already, for some 
pieces of mischief, been several times threatened with a prosecu- 
tion. I became alarmed, as any prosecution might be attended 
with serious consequences. I was compelled, at this period, to 
leave Corsica on an important expedition. 

M Our expedition commenced favorably. We anchored our bark, 
which had a double hold, where our goods were concealed, amidst 
a number of other vessels that bordered the banks of the Rhone 
from Beaucaire to Arles. On our arrival there we began to dis- 
charge our cargo in the night, and to convey it into the town, by 
the help of those with whom we were connected. Whether suc- 
cess rendered us imprudent, or whether we were betrayed, I know 
not : but one evening, our vessel was surrounded, and amongst the 
customhouse officers I observed several gendarmes ; and, as terri- 
fied at the sight of their uniforms as I was brave at the sight of any 
other, I sprang into the hole, opened a port, and dropped into the 
river, dived, and only rose an intervals to breathe, until I reached 
a cutting that led from the Rhone to the canal that runs from 
Beaucaire to Aigues Ivlnnes. 1 wa« npw safe, fpr I could swim 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


205 


along the cutting without being seen, and I reached the canal in 
safety. 1 had designedly taken this direction. I have already told 
your excellency of an inn-keeper of Nimes who had set up a little 
inn on the road from Bellegarde to Beaucaire. 

“ He had, seven or eight years before this period, sold his estab- 
lishment to a tailor of Marseilles, who, having almost ruined him- 
self in his old trade, wished to make his fortune in another. Of 
course, we made the same arrangements with the new landlord 
that we had with the old ; and it was of this man that I intended to 
ask shelter. 

“This Gaspard Caderousse ; he had married a woman from the 
village of Carconte, and whom we did not know by any other 
name than that of her village. She was suffering from the marsh- 
fever, and seemed dying by inches. As for her husband, he was 
a strapping fellow of forty, or five-and-forty, who had more than 
once, in time of danger, givrn ample proof of his presence of mind 
and courage. 

“ It was from Caderousse that I intended demanding shelter; 
and, as we never entered by the door that opened on to the road, 
I resolved not to break through the rule, and, climbing over the 
garden-hedge, I crept amongst the olive and wild fig trees ; and, 
fearing that Caderousse might have son e one there, I entered a 
kind of shed in which I had often passed the nignt, and which was 
only separated fr6m the inn by a partition, in which holes had been 
made in order to enable us to watch an opportunity of announcing 
our presence. If Caderousse were alone, I would tell him the news 
and go back under cover of the brewing storm to see how our 6hip 
and men got on. I went into the inn hanger which was lucky, for 
the host had a guest.” 

"This guest was a jeweller to whom Caderousse had a gem to 
offer. He was higgling over the price, 50.000 francs, for which 
valuable he accounted by saying that it had been sent him by a 
friend of his youth, a sailor named Edmond Dantes, dead in 
prison. Dantes had it from a rich Englishman imprisoned with 
him and whose life the seaman had saved by nursing him through 
sickness. 

" Caderousse sold the stone, and as the tempest impended per- 
suaded the merchant to stop overnight. For my part, I was over- 
powered and I went to sleep where I was. The thunder lulled me 
and even its peals did not disturb me. But in the night I heard 
screams and a pistol shot. 

"I climbed through a window and entered the house. In a 
chamber up-stairs I found Caderousse’s wife dying of the gunshot 
and in a bedroom the jewel-peddler dead of knife-wounds. Cader- 
ousse had fled and I easily guessed -that he had committed the 
double crime to possess himself of the jewel. Unfortunately he was 
luckier than I, for the shot and shrieks had been heard on the 
road and a force of revenue officers and the mounted police sur- 


206 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


rounded the inn and captured me, as it seemed, red handed froir 
the deeds. 

“ The magistrates at Nismes committed me for trial, and in 
three months or so the assizes would have dealt with me. Luckily, 
the good priest Busoni, whose name I had caught in the talk of 
Caderousse and his wife as transmitter of the diamond to them, 
came in answer to my general appeal for a witness in my favor.. It 
also pleased Providence to let Caderousse be caught. He wa* 
given a bfe-sentence on the ground of his wife having incited him, 
which I had related though he did not raise the please himself. 

“ I was set at liberty and thanks to Abbe Busoni interesting 
himself in me, I procured this situation with your lordship. I trust 
you are content ? ” 

“ Bertuccio, I have ever found you faithful, honest, and deserv- 
ing. One fault I find with you, and that is, your not having placed 
sufficient confidence in me. How comes it, that having both a 
sister and an adopted son, you have never spoken to me of 

either? ” “Alas! I have still to recount the most distressing 

period of my life. Anxious as you may suppose I was to behold 
and comfort my dear sister, I lost no time in hastening to Corsica, 
but when I arrived at Rogliano I found a house of mourning and 
of desolation, the consequences of a scene so horrible that the 
neighbors remember and speak of it to this day. Acting by my 
advice, my poor sister had refused to comply with the unreasona- 
ble demands of Benedetto. 

“ With a gang of his fellows, he came in and to extort money 
from her, roasted the soles of her feet ; her clothes caught fire and 
the ruffians fled, leaving her to her dreadful doom in the fired cot- 
tage. They took away all portable articles, and I have heard no 
more of the villain.’* 

“ And in what light did you view the tragical occurrence ?” in- 
quired Monte-Cristo. 

“As a punishment for the crime I had committed,” answered 
Bertuccio. 

“ Oh, those Villeforts are an accursed race ! ” “ Truly they 

are/* murmured the count, with a most singular expression. 


CHAPTER XXVIII. 

AN UNLIMITED ACCOUNT. 

That same evening, upon reaching his abode in the Champs 
Elysees, the Count of Monte-Cristo went over the whole building 
with the air of one long acquainted with each nook or corner. Nor, 
although preceding the party, did he once mistake one door for 
another, or commit the smallest error when choosing any parties 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


20J 

;!4* corridor or staircase to conduct him to a place or suite of rooms 
fie desired to visit. Ali was his principal attendant during the 
somewhat late hour of his survey. Having given various orders 
to Bertuccio relative to the improvements and alterations he de- 
sired to make in the house, the count, drawing out his watch, said 
to the attentive Nubian, ** It is half-past eleven o’clock ; Haydee 
will not be long ere she arrives. Have the French attendants been 
summoned to await her coming?” Ali extended his hands to- 
wards the apartments destined for the fair Greek, which were at a 
distance from the habitable part of the dwelling, and so effectually 
concealed, by means of a tapestried entrance, that it would have 
puzzled the most curious to have divined that beyond that spot lay 
hid a suite of rooms fitted up with a rich magnificence worthy of 
the lovely being who was to tenant them. 

Just at that moment voices were heard hailing the concierge. 
The gate opened, a carriage rolled down the avenue, and stopped 
at the flight of steps leading to the house. The count hastily de- 
scended, and presented himself at the already opened carriage- 
door to assist a young female, completely enveloped in a mantle 
of green and gold, to alight. The female raised the hand extended 
toward her to her lips, and kissed it with a mixture of love and 
respect. Some few words passed between them in that sonorous 
language in which Homer makes his gods converse. The female 
spoke with an expression of deep tenderness, while the count re- 
plied with an air of gentle gravity. Preceded by Ali, who carried 
a rose-colored light in his hand, the female, who was no other than 
the lovely Greek who had been Monte-Cristo’s companion in Italy, 
was conducted to her apartments, while the count retired to the 
pavilion reserved for himself. In another hour every light in the 
house was extinguished, and it might have been thought that ah 
Us inmates slept. 


CHAPTER XXIX. 

UNLIMITED CREDIT. 

About two o’clock the following day a carriage, drawn by a pair 
of magnificent English horses, stopped at the door of Monte- 
Cristo, and a person dressed in a blue coat, with buttons of a sim- 
ilar color, a white waistcoat, over which was displayed a massive 
gold chain, brown pants, and a quantity of black hair descending 
so low over his eyebrows as to leave it doubtful whether it were 
not artificial, so little did its jetty glossiness assimilate with the deep 
wrinkles stamped on his features — a person, in a word, who, al- 
though evidently past fifty, desired to be taken for not more than 
forty, bent forwards from the carriage-door, on the panels of which 


208 the count of monte cristo . 


&gt;ire re emblazoned the armorial bearings of a baron, and directed 
his groom to inquire at the porter’s lodge whether the Count oi 
Monte-Cristo resided there, and if he were within. While waiting, 
the occupant of the carriage surveyed the house, the garden so 
far as he could distinguish it, and the livery of the servants who 
passed to and fro, with an attention so close as to be somewhat 
impertinent. The glance of this individual was keen, but evincing 
rather cunning than intelligence ; his lips were straight, and so 
thin that, as they closed, they were compressed within the mouth ; 
his cheek-bones were broad and projecting, a never-failing proof 
of audacity and craftiness ; while the flatness of his forehead, and 
the enlargement of the back of his skull, which rose much higher 
than his large and vulgarly-shaped ears, combined to form a phys- 
iognomy anything but prepossessing, save in the eyes of such as 
considered that the owner of so splendid an equipage must needs 
be all that was admirable and enviable, more especially when they 
gazed on the enormous diamond that glittered in his shirt, and the 
red riband that depended from his button-hole. 

The groom, in obedience to his orders, tapped at the window of 
the janitor’s lodge, saying, “Pray, does not the Count of Monte- 

Cristo live here ? ” “ His excellency does reside here,” replied 

the concierge ; “ but ” added he, glancing an inquiring look 

at Ali. Ali returned a sign in the negative. “ But what ? ” asked 
the groom. 

“ His excellency does not receive visitors to-day.” “Then 

take my master’s card. You’ll see who master is — Baron 
Danglars ! Be sure to give the card to the count, and say that, 
although in haste to attend the Chamber, my master came out of 
his way to have the honor of calling upon him.” 

“I never speak to his excellency,” replied the porter; “the 
footman will carry your message.” The groom returned to the 
carriage. “Well?” asked Danglars. The man, somewhat 
crestfallen by the rebuke he had received, detailed to his master 
all that had passed. “ Bless me ! ” murmured Baron Danglars, 
“this must surely be a prince instead of a count by their styling 
him 4 excellency,’ and only venturing to address him by the 
medium of his valet-de-chambre. However, it does not signify ; 
he has a letter of credit on me, so I must see him when he requires 
his money.” 

Then, throwing himself back in his carriage, Danglars called 
out to his coachman, in a voice that might be heard across the 
road, “ To the House! ” 

Apprised in time of the visit paid him, Monte-Cristo had, from 
behind the blinds of his pavilion, as minutely observed the baron 
by means of an excellent spy-glass as Danglars himself had scru- 
tinized the house, garden, and servants. “ That fellow has a de- 
cidedly bad countenance,” said the count, in a tone of disgust, as 
he shut up his glass into its ivory case. “How comes it that all 


• THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


209 


do not retreat in aversion at sight of that flat, receding, serpent- 
like forehead, round, vulture-shaped head, and sharp-hooked nose, 
like the beak of a buzzard? Ali ! ” cried he, striking at the same 
time on the brazen gong. Ali appeared. 44 Summon Bertuccio 1 &gt;! 
said the count. Almost immediately Bertuccio entered the apart- 
ment. 44 Did your excellency desire to see me?” inquired he. 
“ I did,” replied the count. 44 You no doubt observed the horses 

standing a few minutes since at the door ? ” 44 Certainly, your 

excellency : I noticed them for their remarkable beauty.” 

44 Then how comes it,” said Monte-Cristo, with a frown, 44 that, 
when I desired you to purchase for me the finest pair of horses to 
be found in Paris, you permitted so splendid a couple as those I 
allude to be in the possession of any one but myself?” 44 Per- 
mit me to assure your excellency,” said Bertuccio, 44 that the 
horses you speak of were not to be sold when I purchased yours.” 
Monte-Cristo shrugged up his shoulders. 44 It seems,” said he, 
44 that you have yet to learn that all things are to be sold to such 
as care to pay the price.” 

44 My lord is not, perhaps, aware that M. Danglars gave 16,000 
francs for his horses ? ” 

44 Very well ! then offer him double that sum : a banker never 
loses an opportunity of doubling his capital.” 

44 Is your excellency really in earnest?” inquired the steward. 
Monte-Cristo regarded the person who durst presume to doubt his 
words with the look of one equally surprised and displeased. 44 1 
have to pay a visit this evening,” replied he. 44 I desire that these 
horses, with completely new harness, may be at the door with my 
carriage.” Bertuccio bowed, and was about to retire ; but when 
he reached the door, he paused, and then said, 44 At what o’clock 
does your excellency wish the carriage and horses ready?” 

44 At five o’clock,” replied the count. 

At the stroke of five, the steward entered. 

44 My horses ! ” said Monte-Cristo. 

44 They are at the door harnessed to the carriage as your excel’ 
lency desired. Does my lord wish me to accompany him ? ” 

44 No, the coachman, Ali, and Baptistin will be sufficient without 
you.” The count descended to the door of his mansion, and beheld 
his carriage drawn by the very pair of horses he had so much ad- 
mired in the morning as the property of Danglars. As he passed 
them he said, — 44 They are extremely handsome certainly, and you 
have done well to purchase them, although you were somewhat 
remiss not to have procured them sooner.” 

“Indeed, your excellency, I had very considerable difficulty in 
obtaining them, and, as it is, they have cost an enormous price.” 

44 Does the sum you gave for them make the animals less beau* 
tiful? ” inquired the count, shrugging his shoulders. 

44 Nay, if your excellency is satisfied, all is as I could wish 
St. Whither does my lord desire to be driven ? ’ * 

14 


2lO 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


“ To the residence of Baron Danglars.” 

The count descended the terrace steps, and sprang into his car- 
riage, which, drawn by the beautiful animals so expensively pur- 
chased, was whirled along with incredible swiftness, and stopped 
only before the hotel of the banker. Danglars was engaged at 
that moment, presiding over a railway committee. But the meet- 
ing was nearly concluded when the name of his visitor was an- 
nounced. As the count’s title sounded on his ear he rose, and 
addressing his colleagues, many of whom were members of either 
chamber, he said, — “Gentlemen, I must pray you to excuse my 
quitting you thus ; but a most ridiculous circumstance has occur- 
red, which is this, — Thomson and French, the bankers at Rome, 
have sent to me a certain individual calling himself the Count of 
Monte-Cristo, who is desirous of opening an account with me to 
any amount he pleases. I confess this is the drollest thing I have 
ever met with in the course of my extensive foreign transactions,, 
and you may readily suppose it has greatly roused my curiosity ; 
indeed, so much did I long to see the bearer of so unprecedented 
an order for an unlimited credit, that I took the trouble this morn- 
ing to call on the pretended count, for his title is a mere fiction — 
of that I am persuaded. We all know counts nowadays are not 
famous for their riches. But, would you believe, upon arriving at 
the residence of the Count of Monte-Cristo, I was very coolly in- 
formed * He did not receive visitors that day ! ' Upon my word, 
such airs are riduculous, and befitting only some great millionaire 
or a capricious beauty. I made inquiries, and found that the 
house where the said count resides in the Champs Elysees is his 
own property, and certainly it was very decently kept up and ar- 
ranged, as far as I could judge from the gardens and exterior of 
the hotel. But/’ pursued Danglars, with one of his sinister smiles, 
“ an order for unlimited credit calls for something like caution on 
the part of the banker to whom that order is given. These facts 
stated, I will freely confess I am very anxious to see the individual 
just now announced. I suspect a hoax is intended, but the good 
folks who thought fit to play it off on me knew but little whom they 
had to deal with. Well! well! we shall see. ‘They laugh best 
who laugh last ! ’ M 

Having delivered himself of this pompous speech, uttered with a 
degree of energy that left the baron almost out of breath, he bowed 
to the assembled party and withdrew to his drawing-room, whose 
sumptuous fittings-up of white and gold had caused a great and 
admiring sensation. It was to this apartment he had desired his 
guest to be shown, fully reckoning upon the overwhelming effect 
so dazzling a coup d' ceil would produce. He found the count 
standing before some copies that had been passed off to the banker 
as originals ; but which, copies of the paintings of those great 
masters as they w*ere, seemed to feel their degradation in being 
brought into juxtaposition with the gaudy gilding that covered the 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


2l\ 

ceiling. The count turned round as he heard the entrance of 
Danglars into the room. With a slight inclination of the head, 
Danglars signed to the count to be seated, pointing significantly 
to a gilded arm-chair, covered with white satin embroidered with 
gold. The count obeyed. “ I have the honor, I presume, of ad- 
dressing M. de Monte-Cristo.” 

The count bowed. “ And I of speaking to the Baron Danglars, 
Chevalier of the Legion d’Honneur, and Member of the Chamber 
of Deputies ? ” 

With an air of extreme gravity, Monte-Cristo slowly enumerated 
the various titles engraved on the card left at his h&amp;tel by the 
baron. 

Danglars felt all the irony contained in the address of his visitor. 
For a minute or two he compressed his lips as though seeking to 
conquer his rage ere he trusted himself to speak. Then, turning 
to his visitor, he said, — “ You will, I trust, excuse my not having 
called you by your title when I first addressed you, but you are 
aware we are living under a popular form of government, and that 
I am myself a representative of the liberties of the people.” 

“So much so,” replied Monte-Cristo, “that while preserving 
the habit of styling yourself baron, you have deemed it advisable 
to lay aside that of calling others by their titles.” 

“Upon my word,” said Danglars, with affected carelessness, 
“ I attach no sort of value to such empty distinctions ; but the fact 
is, I was made Laron, and also Chevalier of the Legion d’Honneur 
in consequence of some services I had rendered government, 
but ” 

“You have abdicated your titles after the example set you by 
Montmorency and Lafayette ? Well, you cannot possibly choose 
more noble models for your conduct.” 

“Why,” replied Danglars, “ I do not mean to say I have alto- 
gether laid aside my titles ; with the servants, for instance — there 
I think it right to preserve my rank with all its outward forms.” 

“I see : by your domestics you are * my lord,’ ' the Baron ! * 
the journalists of the day style you * monsieur ! * while your con- 
stituents term you * citizen.’ ” Again Danglars bit his lips with 
baffled spite ; he saw well enough that he was no match for 
Monte-Cristo in an argument of this sort, and he therefore hastened 
to turn to subjects more familiar to him, and calculated on having 
all the advantages on his side. 

“Permit me to inform you, Count,” said he, bowing, “that I 
have received a letter of advice from Thomson and French, of 
Rome.” 

“ I am glad to hear it, Baron, for I must claim the privilege 
of so addressing you as well as your servants ; I have acquired 
the bad habit of calling persons by their style and title from liv- 
ing in a country where barons are still met with, simply because 
persons are neve* suddenly elevated t Q $ rank which is possessed 


212 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


only in right of ancestry. But as regards the letter of advice, 1 
am charmed to find it has reached you ; that will spare me the 
troublesome ?md disagreeable task of coming to you for money 
myself. You have received a regular letter of advice, therefore 
my cheques will be duly honored, and we shall neither of us 
have to go out of our way in the transaction.” 

“ There is one slight difficulty,” said Danglars, “ and that con- 
sists in my not precisely comprehending the letter itself. Well, 
this letter gives the Count of Monte-Cristo unlimited credit on our 
house.” 

“ And what is there that requires explaining in that simple fact, 
may I ask, Baron ? ’ * 

“Merely the term unlimited— nothing else, certainly.” “ Is 

not that word known in France? Is it possible that Thomson 
and French are not looked upon as safe and solvent bankers? 
Pray tell me what you think, Baron, for I feel uneasy, I can as- 
sure you, having some considerable property in their hands.” 

“Thomson and French are bankers of the highest repute,” re- 
plied Danglars, with an almost mocking smile ; “ and it was not 
of their solvency or capability I spoke, but of the word unlimited t 
which, in financial affairs, is so extremely vague a term — that — 
Jhat ’ ’ 

“In fact,” said Monte-Cristo, “that its sense is also without 
limitation.” 

“Precisely what I was about to say,” cried Danglars. “Now 
what is vague is doubtful ; and, says the wise man, 1 where there 
is doubt there is danger ! * ” 

“Meaning to say,” rejoined Monte-Cristo, “that however 
Thomson and French may be inclined to commit acts of impru- 
dence and folly, Baron Danglars is not disposed to follow their ex- 
ample.” 

“How so?” 

“ Simply thu9 : the banking-house of Thomson and Co. set no 
bounds to their engagements, while M. Danglars’ has its limits ; 
truly he is wise as the sage whose prudent apophthegm he quoted 
but just now.” 

“ Sir ! ” replied the banker, drawing himself up with a haughty 
air, “ the amount of my capital, or the extent and solvency of my 
engagements, has never yet been questioned.” 

“It seems, then, reserved for me,” said Monte-Cristo, coldly, 
“ to be the first to do so.” 

“ By what right, sir? ” 

“ By right of the objections you have raised, and the explana- 
tions you have demanded, which certainly imply considerable dis- 
trust on your part, either of yourself or me — the former most prob- 
ably.” Again did Danglars, by a forcible effort, restrain himself 
from betraying the vindictive passions which possessed his mind at 
this second defeat by an adversary who calmly fought him with 


THE COUNT OF MuNTE CRISTO. 


2X3 


his own weapons: his forced politeness sat awkwardly upon him, 
while his splenetic rage, although essaying to veil itself under a 
playful, jesting manner, approached at times almost to imperti- 
nence. Monte-Cristo, on the contrary, preserved a graceful 
suavity of demeanor, aided by a certain degree of simplicity he 
could assume at pleasure, and thus, calm and wholly at his ease* 
possessed an infinite advantage over his irascible companion. 

41 Well, sir,” resumed Danglars, after a brief silence, 41 1 will 
endeavor to make myself understood, by requesting you to inform 
me for what sum you propose to draw upon me?” 

44 Why, truly,” replied Monte-Cristo, determined not to lose an 
inch of the ground he had gained, 44 my reason for desiring an 
4 unlimited ' credit was precisely because I did not know what 
money I might expend.” 

The banker now thought it his turn to show off, and make a dis- 
play of wealth and consequence. Flinging himself back there- 
fore in his armchair, he said, with an arrogant and purse-proud 
air, — 44 Let me beg of you not to hesitate in naming your wishes; 
should you be hard pressed, the concern, of which I am the head, 
would not scruple to accommodate you to the amount of a million.” 

44 A million ! ” retorted the count ; 44 and what use can you pos- 
sibly suppose so pitiful a sum would be to me? My dear sir, if a 
trifle like that could suffice me, I should never have given myself 
the trouble of opening an account for so contemptible an amount. 
A million ! Excuse my smiling when you speak of a sum I am in 
the habit of carrying in my pocket-book or dressing-case.” And 
with these words Monte-Cristo took from his pocket a small case 
containing his visiting-cards, and drew forth two orders on the 
treasury for 500,000 francs each, payable at sight to the bearer. A 
man like Danglars was wholly inaccessible to any gentler method 
of correction ; his upstart arrogance, his ostentatious vulgarity, 
were only assailable by blows dealt with the force and vigor of the 
present shock ; its effect on the banker was perfectly stunning ; 
and as though scarcely venturing to credit his senses, he continued 
gazing from the paper to the count with a confused and mystified 
air. 

44 Come, come,” said Monte-Cristo, 44 confess honestly that you 
have not perfect confidence in the responsibility of the house of 
Thomson and French — there is nothing very strange in your ex- 
ercising what seems to you a necessary caution ; however, foresee- 
ing that such might be the case, I determined, spite of my ignor- 
ance in such matters, to be provided with the means of banishing 
all scruples from your mind, and at the same time leaving you 
quite at liberty to act as you pleased in the affair. See, here are 
two similar letters to that you have yourself received ; the one 
from the house of Arstein and Eskeles, of Vienna, to Baron de 
Rothschild ; the other drawn from Baring, of London, to M. Laf- 
fttte. Now, sir, you have but to say the word, and I will spare vov 


214 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


all uneasiness and alarm on the subject, by presenting my letter o\ 
credit at one or other of the establishments I have named.'* The 
blow had struck home, and Danglars was entirely vanquished ; 
with a trembling hand he took the two letters from Vienna and 
Lcadon from the count, who held them carelessly between his 
finger and thumb, as though to him they were mere every-day 
matters, to w r hich he attached but very little interest. Having 
carefully perused the documents in question, the banker pro- 
ceeded to ascertain the genuineness of the signatures, and this he 
did with a scrutiny so severe as might have appeared insulting to 
the count, had it not suited his present purpose to mislead the 
banker in every respect. “ Well, sir,” said Danglars, rising, 
after he had well convinced himself of the authenticity of the 
documents he held, and bowing, as though in adoration of a man, 
the thrice happy possessor of as many orders for unlimited credit 
on the three principal banks of Paris, “you have three signatures 
worth untold wealth ; although your conversation and vouchers 
put an end to all mistrust in the affair, you must pardon me, 
Count, for confessing the most extreme astonishment.” 

“Nay, nay,” answered Monte-Cristo, with the easiest and most 
gentlemanly air imaginable, “ ’tis not for such trifling sums as 
these to startle or astonish the banking-house of Baron Danglars. 
Then, as all is settled as to forms between us, I will thank you to 
send a supply of money to me to-morrow.” 

“ By all means. What sum do you want ? ” 

“Why,” replied Monte-Cristo, now that we have come to so 
clear an understanding, and that all distrust and suspicion are laid 
at rest, we may as well fix a sum as the probable expenditure of 

the first year suppose we say six millions to ” 

“Six millions!” gasped out Danglars — “certainly, whatever 
you please.” 

“ Then, if I should require more,” continued Monte-Cristo, in a 
careless, indifferent manner, “ why, of course, I should draw 
upon you ; but my present intention is not to remain in France 
more than a year, and during that period I scarcely think I shall 
exceed the sum I mentioned. However, we shall see.” 

“ The money you desire shall be at your house by ten o'clock 
tc -morrow morning, my lord,” replied Danglars. “ How would 

y u like to have it? in gold, silver, or notes ? ” “ Half in gold, 

a id the other half in bank-notes, if you please,” said the count, 
rising from his seat. 

“I must confess to you,” said Danglars, “that I have hitherto 
imagined myself acquainted with the degree of fortune possessed 
by all the rich individuals of Europe, and still wealth such as 
yours has been wholly unknown to me. May I presume to ask 
whether you have long possessed it? ” 

“ It has been in the family a very long while,” returned Monte- 
Cristo, “ a treasure expressly forbidden to be touched fora period. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


215 


during which the compound interest has doubled the capital. The 
period appointed by the testator for the disposal of these riches oc« 
curred only a short time ago ; and they have only been employed 
by me within the last few years. Your ignorance on the subject, 
therefore, is easily accounted for. However, you will be better 
informed as to me and my possessions ere long.” And the count, 
while pronouncing these latter words, accompanied them with one? 
of those ghastly smiles that used to strike terror into poor d’Epinay. 

“With your tastes, and means of gratifying them,” continued 
Danglars, 44 you will exhibit a splendor that must effectually put 
us poor miserable millionaires quite in the background. If I mis* 
take not, you are an admirer of paintings, at least I judged so from 
the attention you appeared to be bestowing on mine when I entered 
the room. But perhaps you will prefer putting off your inspection 
of my poor pictures, until another opportunity, when we shall be 
better known to each other. For the present, I will confine my- 
self (if perfectly agreeable to you) to introducing you to Lady 
Danglars — excuse my impatience, but a person of your wealth and 
influence cannot receive too much attention.” Monte-Cristo 
bowed, in sign that he accepted the proferred honor, and the finan- 
cier immediately rang a small bell, which was answered by a serv- 
ant in a showy livery. 44 Is Lady Danglars at home ? ” inquired 
Danglars. 41 Yes, my lord,” answered the man. 

44 And alone ? ” 44 No, my lord, her ladyship has visitors.*' 

44 And who is withmadame ? — M. D&lt; bray ? ” inquired Danglars, 
with an air of indulgence and good-nature that made Monte-Cristo 
smile, acquainted as he was with the secrets of the banker’s do- 
mestic. life. 

“Yes, my lord,” replied the servant, 44 M. Debray is with 
madame.” Danglars nodded his head ; then, turning to Monte- 
Cristo, said, 44 M. Lucien Debray is an old friend of ours, and 
private secretary to the Home Department. As for my wife, I 
must tell you, she lowered herself by marrying me, for she be- 
longs to one of the most ancient families in France. Her maiden 
name was De Services, and her first husban^ was Colonel the 
Marquis de Nargonne.” 

44 I have not the honor of knowing Lady Danglars ; but I have 
already met M. Lucien Debray, at the house of M. de Morcerf.” 

44 My lady is waiting to receive you, gentlemen,” said the serv- 
ant, who had gone to inquire the pleasure of his mistress. 4 ‘ With 
your permission,” said Danglars, bowing, 44 I will precede you, to 
Show you the way.” 

" By all means,” replied Monte-Cristo ; 44 1 follow you/ p 


216 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


CHAPTER XXX. 

THE GREYS. 

The baron, followed by the count, traversed a long suite of 
apartments, in which the prevailing characteristics were heavy 
magnificence and the gaudiness ©f ostentatious wealth, until he 
reached the boudoir, the only one throughout the vast hotel in which 
any distinctive taste prevailed. The ornamental part of the fit- 
tings-up of Mdme. Danglars’ boudoir had then been left entirely 
to herself and Lucien Debray. M. Danglars, however, while pos- 
sessing a great admiration for the antique, as it was understood dur- 
ing the time of the Directory, entertained the most sovereign con- 
tempt for the simple elegance of his wife’s favorite sitting-room, 
where, by the way, he was never permitted to intrude, unless, in- 
deed, he excused his own appearance by ushering in some more 
agreeable visitor than himself; and even then he had rather the 
air and manner of a person who was himself introduced, than as 
being the presenter of another, his reception being either cordial 
or frigid, in proportion as the individual who accompanied him 
chanced to please or displease his lady wife. 

As Danglars now entered he found the lady (who, although past 
the first bloom of youth, was still strikingly handsome) seated at 
the piano, while Lucien Debray, standing before a small work- 
table, was turning over an album. Lucien had found time* pre- 
paratory to the count’s arrival, to relate many particulars respect- 
ing him to Lady Danglars. It will be remembered that Monte- 
Cristo had made a lively impression on the minds of all the party 
at the breakfast given by Morcerf ; consequently the description 
given by Lucien to the baroness bore the highly-colored tinge of 
his own heated imagination. A most gracious welcome and un- 
usual smile were bestowed on M. Danglars ; the count, in return 
for his gentlemanly bow, received a formal though graceful court*' 
esy, while Lucien exchanged with the count a sort of distant recog- 
nition, and with Danglars a free and easy nod. 

“ Baroness,” said Danglars, give me leave to present to you the 
Count of Monte-Cristo, most warmly recommended t© me by my 
correspondents at Rome. I need but mention one fact to make all 
the ladies in Paris court his notice, and that is, that the noble in, 
dividual before you has come to take up his abode in our fine 
capital for one year, during which brief period he proposes to spend 
six millions of money — think of that ! It sounds very much like 
an announcement of balls, fetes, dinners, and pic-nic parties, in 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


317 

all of which I trust the Count will remember us, as he may depend 
upon it we shall him, in all the entertainments we may give, be 
they great or small.” Spite of the gross flattery and coarseness 
of this address, Lady Danglars could not forbear gazing with con- 
siderable interest on a man who had selected Paris for the 
scene of his princely extravagance. 

•* You have selected a most unfavorable moment for your first 
visit to our city. Paris is a horrid place in summer! Balls, 
parties, and fetes are over ; the Italian opera is in London ; the 
French opera everywhere except in Paris. As for the Theatre 
Frangais you know, of course, that it is nowhere. The only 
amusements left us are the indifferent races held in the Champ de 
Mars and Satory. Do you propose entering any horses at either 
of these races ? ” 

“ I assure you,’* replied Monte-Cristo, “ my present intentions 
are to do whatever will tend to render my sojourn in Paris most 
agreeable to myself and others. I only pray I may find some 
kind, pitying friend who will commiserate my lamentable ignor- 
ance of such matters, and instruct me rightly to understand the 
habits and etiquette of this polished city.” 

“ Are you fond of horses ? ” 

“ I have passed a considerable part of my life in the East, 
madam, and you are doubtless aware that the inhabitants of those 
climes value only two things — the fine breeding of their horses 

and the beauty of their females.” “ Nay,” said the baroness, 

“ it would have been somewhat more gallant to have placed the 
ladies before the animals.” 

“You see, madam, how rightly I spoke when I said I required 
a preceptor to guide me in all my sayings and doings here.” At 
this instant the favorite attendant of Danglars entered the bou- 
doir ; approaching her mistress, she spoke some words in an under- 
tone. Danglars turned very pale, then exclaimed — “ I cannot 
believe it ; the thing is impossible.” 

“I assure you madam,” replied the woman, “it is even as I 
have said.” Turning impatiently towards her husband, Danglars 
demanded, “Is this true? That when my coachman was about 
to prepare my carriage, he discovered that the horses had been 
removed from the stables without his knowledge. I desire to 
know what is the meaning of this ?” 

“ Be kind enough, madam, to listen to me,” said Danglars. 

“ Fear not my listening — ay, and attentively, too ; for in truth, 
1 am most curious to hear what explanation you propose offering 
for conduct so unparalleled. These two gentlemen shall decide be- 
tween us ; but, first I will state the case to them. Gentlemen,” 
continued the baroness, “among the ten horses in the stables of 
Baron Danglars, are two that belong exclusively to me — a pair of 
the handsomest and most spirited creatures to be found in Paris. 
But at least, M. Debray, I need not give a further description, be- 


218 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


cause to you my beautiful pair of dappled greys were well Vnown 
Well ! I had promised Mdme. de Villefort the loan of my carriage 
to drive to-morrow to the Bois de Boulogne ; but when my coach- 
man goes to fetch the greys from the stables they are gone — posi- 
tively gone. No doubt, M. Danglars has sacrificed them to the 
selfish consideration of gaining some thousands of paltry francs. 
Oh, how I hate and detest that money-grasping nature ! Heaven 
defend me from all the race of mercenary speculators ! ” 

“ Madam,” replied Danglars, “ the horses were not sufficiently 
quiet for you ; they were scarcely four years old, and they made 
me extremely uneasy on your account.” 

“Nonsense!” retorted the baroness; “you could not have 
entertained any alarm on the subject, because you are perfectly 
well aware that I have recently engaged a coachman who is said 
to be the best in Paris. But, perhaps, you have disposed of the 
coachman as well as the horses? ” 

“ My dear love ! pray, do not say any more about them, and I 
promise you another pair exactly like them in appearance, only 
more quiet and steady.” The baroness shrugged up her shoulders 
with an air of ineffable contempt, while her husband, affecting not 
to observe it, turned towards Monte-Cristo, and said — “Upon my 
word, my lord, I am quite sorry I was not sooner aware of your 

establishing yourself in Paris.” “And wherefore?” asked the 

count. 

“ Because I should have liked to have made you the offer of 
these horses. I have almost given them away, as it is ; but, as I 
before said, I was anxious to get rid of them upon any terms. 
They were only fit for a young man ; not at all calculated for a 
person at my time of life.” 

“ I am much obliged by your kind intentions towards me,” said 
Monte-Cristo: “but this morning I purchased a very excellent 
pair of carriage-horses, and I do not think they were dear. There 
they are. Come, M. Debray, you are a connoisseur, I believe, 
let me have your opinion upon them.” As Debray walked to- 
wards the window, Danglars approached his wife. “ I could not 
tell you before others,” said he, in a low tone, “the reason of my 
parting with the horses ; but a most enormous price was offered 
me this morning for them. Some madman or fool, bent upon 
ruining himself as fast as he can, actually sent his steward to me 
to purchase them at any cost ; and the fact is, I have gained 
16,000 francs by the sale of them. Come, don’t look so angry, 
and you shall have 4,000 francs of the money to do what you like 
with, and Eugenie shall have 2,000. There, what do you think 
aow.of the affair? |Wasn’t I right to part with the horses?” 
Lady Danglars surveyed her husband with a look of withering 
contempt. 

“What do I see?” suddenly exclaimed Debray. “ Here are 
your horses ! The very animals we were speaking of, harnessed 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


219 


to the count’s carriage ! ” “ My dear, beautiful dappled greys i ’* 

demanded the baroness, springing to the window. “ ’Tis indeed 
they!” said she. Danglars looked absolutely stupified. “How 
very singular !” cried Monte-Cristo, with well-feigned astonish- 
ment. Lady Danglars whispered a few words in the ear of Deb- 
ray, who approached Monte-Cristo, saying, “ The baroness wishes 
to know what you paid her husband for the horses.” 

“ I scarcely know,” replied the count ; “ it was a little surprise 
prepared for me by my steward ; he knew how desirous I was of 
meeting with precisely such a pair of horses — and — so he bought 
them. I think, if I remember rightly, he hinted that he had giver? 
somewhere about 30,000 francs.” Debray conveyed the count’* 
reply to the baroness. Poor Danglars looked crestfallen and dis&lt; 
comfited ; he was occupied in anticipations of the coming sceno 
between himself and the baroness, whose threatening looks and 
frowning brow, like that of Olympian Jove, predicted a fearful 
storm. Debray, who perceived the gathering clouds, and felt no 
desire to witness the explosion of Mdme. Danglars’ rage, suddenly 
recollected an appointment, which compelled him to take his 
leave ; while Monte-Cristo, unwilling by prolonging his stay to 
destroy the advantages he hoped to obtain, made a farewell bow 
and departed, leaving Danglars to endure the angry reproaches 
of his wife. 

Two hours afterwards, Baroness Danglars received a most flatter- 
ing epistle from the count, in which he entreated her to receive back 
her favorite “ dappled grays,” protesting that he could not endure 
the idea of making his debut in the Parisian world with the knowl- 
edge that his splendid equipage had been obtained at the price of 
a lovely woman’s regrets. The horses were sent back wearing the 
same harness they had done in the morning ; the only difference 
consisted in the rosettes worn on the heads of the animals being 
Adorned with a large diamond placed in the centre of each, by 
Drder of the count. 

To Danglars Monte-Cristo also wrote, requesting him to excuse 
the whimsical gift of a capricious millionaire, and to beg pardon 
for the Eastern fashion adopted in the return of the horses. 

During the evening, Monte-Cristo quitted Paris for Auteuil, ac- 
companied by Ali. The following day, about three o’clock, a 
single blow struck on the gong summoned Ali to the presence of 
the count. “Ali,” observed his master, as the Nubian entered 
the chamber, “ you have frequently explained to me how more 
than commonly skilful you are in throwing the lasso, have you 
not?” Ali drew himself up proudly, and then returned a nod. 

“ It is well,” said Monte-Cristo. “ Then listen to me. Ere long 
a carriage will dash past here, drawn by the pair of dappled grey 
horses you saw me with yesterday ; now, at the risk of your own 
life, you must manage to stop those horses before my door.” 

Ali descended to the street, and marked a strait line on the 


220 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


pavement immediately at the entrance of the house, and then 
1 pointed out the line he had traced to the count, who was watching 
| him. The count patted him gently on the back, his usual mode 
of praising Ali, who, pleased and gratified with the commission as- 
signed him, walked calmly towards a projecting stone forming the 
angle of the street and house, and, seating himself thereon, began 
to smoke. his chibouque, while Monte-Crista re-entered his dwelling,, 
perfectly assured of the success of his plan. Suddenly a distant 
sound of rapidly-advancing wheels was heard, and almost im- 
mediately a carriage appeared, drawn by a pair of wild, ungovern- 
able horses, who rushed forward as though urged by the fiend 
himself, while the terrified coachman strove in vain to restrain 
their furious speed. 

In the vehicle was a female, apparently young, and a child of 
about seven or eight years of age. Terror seemed to have de- 
prived them even of the power of uttering a cry, and both were 
clasped in each other’s arms, as though determined .not to be 
parted by death itself. 

Then Ali knew the right moment was come, and, throwing down 
his chibouque, he drew the lasso from his pocket, threw it so skil- 
fully as to catch the forelegs of the near horse in its triple fold, 
suffered himself to be dragged on for a few steps, by which time 
the tightening of the well-cast lasso had so completely hampered 
the furious animal as to bring it to the ground, and falling on the 
pole, it snapped, and therefore prevented the other animal from 
pursuing its headlong way. Gladly availing himself of this op- 
portunity, the coachman leaped from his box ; but Ali had 
promptly seized the nostrils of the second horse, and held them 
in his iron grasp, till the maddened beast, snorting with pain, sunk 
beside his companion. All this was achieved in much less time 
than is occupied in the recital. The brief space had, however, 
been sufficient for an individual, followed by a number of serv- 
ants, to rush from the house before which the accident had oc- 
curred, and, as the coachman opened the door of the carriage, to 
take from it a lady who was convulsively grasping the cushions 
with one hand, while with the other she pressed to her bosom her 
young companion, who had lost all consciousness of what was 
passing. 

Monte-Cristo carried them both to the salon, and deposited 
them on a sofa. 

With a calm smile and gentle wave of the hand, Monte-Cristo 
signed to the distracted mother to lay aside her apprehensions ; 
then opening a casket that stood near, he drew forth a phial com- 
posed of Bohemian glass, containing a liquid of the color of 
blood, of which he let fall a single drop on the child’s lips. 
Scarcely had it reached them, ere the boy, though still pale as 
marble, opened his eyes, and eagerly gazed around him. At this 
unhoped-for sight, the wild delight of the mother equalled her 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


221 


former despair. ** Where am I ? " exclaimed she, when -*er first 
raptures at her son’s recovery were past ; “ and to whom am 1 in- 
debted for so happy a termination to my late dreadful alarm ? * * 

“ Madam," answered the count, “ you are under the roof of 

one who esteems himself most fortunate in having been able to 
save you from a further continuance of your sufferings." 

11 My wretched curiosity has brought all this about," pursued 
the lady. “All Paris rung with the praises of Mdme. Danglars* 
beautiful horses, and I had the folly to desire to know whether 
they really merited the high character given of them." 

“Is it possible," exclaimed the count, with well-feigned as- 
tonishment, “ that these horses belong to that lady ? ” 

“ They do, indeed. May I inquire if you are acquainted with 
Madame Danglars?" 

“ I have that honor ; and my happiness at your escape from the 
danger that threatened you is redoubled by the consciousness 
that I have been the unwilling and unintentional cause of all the 
peril you have incurred. I yesterday purchased these horses of 
the baron ; but as the baroness evidently regretted parting with 
them, I ventured to send them back to her, with a request that 
she would gratify me by accepting them from my hands." 

“ You are, then, doubtless, the Count of Monte-Cristo, of whom 
Hermine has talked to me so much? " 

“ You have rightly guessed, madam," replied the count. 

“ And I am Madame Heloise de Villefort." The count bowed 
with the air of a person who hears a name for the first time. “ How 
grateful will M. de Villefort be for all your goodness ; how 
thankfully will he acknowledge that to you alone it is owing that 
his wife and child exist ! Most certainly, but for the prompt 
assistance of your intrepid servant, this dear child and myself 
must both have perished." “ Indeed, I still shudder at the rec- 

ollection of the fearful danger you were placed in, as well as 
your interesting child." 

“I trust you will not object to my offering a recompense to 
your noble-hearted servant, proportionate to the service he has 
rendered me and mine." 

“ I beseech you, madam," replied Monte-Cristo, “ not to spoil 
Ali, either by too great praise or rewards. I cannot allow him to 
acquire the habit of expecting to be recompensed for every trifling 
service he may render. Ali is my slave, and in saving your life 
he was but discharging his duty to me." 

Mdme. de Villefort made no further reply : her mind was utterly 
absorbed in the contemplation of the singular individual, who, 
from the first instant of her beholding him, had made so power- 
ful an impression on her. During the evident preoccupation of 
Mdme. de Villefort, Monte-Cristo scrutinized the features and ap- 
pearance of the boy she kept folded in her arms, lavishing on him 
the most tender endearments. The child was small for his age. 


222 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


and unnaturally pale. A mass of straight black hair, defying all 
attempts to train or curl it, fell over his projecting forehead, and 
hung down to his shoulders, giving increased vivacity to eyes al- 
ready sparkling with a youthful love of mischief and fondness 
for every forbidden enjoyment. His mouth was large, and the 
lips, which had not yet regained their color, were particularly 
"bin ; in fact, the deep and crafty look, forming the principal 
character of the child’s face, belonged rather to a boy of twelve 
\or fourteen years of age than to one so young. His first move- 
/inent was to free himself by a violent push from the encircling 
arms of his mother, and to rush forward to the casket from 
whence the count had taken the phial of elixir, then, without ask- 
ing permission of any one, he proceeded, in all the wilfulness of a 
spoiled child unaccustomed to restrain either whims of caprices, 
to pull the corks out of all the bottles in the casket. 

“Touch nothing, my little friend,” cried the count, eagerly ; 
“ some of those liquids are not only dangerous to taste, but even to 
smell.” 

Mdme. de Villcfort became very pale, and, seizing her son’s 
arm, drew him anxiously toward her ; but, once satisfied of his 
safety, she also cast a brief but expressive glance on the casket, 
which was not lost upon the count. 

“Will you permit me to inquire,” said Mdme. de Villefort, 
41 whether you usually reside here ? ” 

“No, I do not,” replied Monte-Cristo; “it is a small place l 
have purchased quite lately. My place of abode is No. 30, 
Avenue des Champs Elysees ; but I am delighted to see your 
countenance seems expressive of a perfect return to tranquillity. 
You have quite recovered from your fright, and are, no doubt, 
desirous of returning home. Anticipating your wishes, I have 
desired the same horses you came with to be put to one of 
my carriages, and Ali, he whom you think ugly,” continued he, 
addressing the boy with a smiling air, “ will have the honor 
of driving you home, while your coachman remains here 
to attend to the necessary repairs of your caleche. Directly 
that important business is concluded, I will have a couple of my 
own horses harnessed to convey it direct to Mdme. Danglars.” 

“ I dare not return with those dreadful horses,” said Mdme. 
de Villefort. 

“ You will see,” replied Monte-Cristo, 44 that they will be as differ- 
ent as possible in the hands of Ali. With him they will be gentle and 
docile as lambs.” Ali had, indeed, given proof of this ; for, ap- 
proaching the animals, he quietly harnessed the pacified animals 
to the count’s chariot, took the reins in his hands, and mounted 
the box when to the utter astonishment of those witnessing the 
ungovernable spirit and maddened velocity of the same horses, he 
was actually compelled to apply his whip in no very gentle man- 
ner ere he could induce them to start ; and even then all that could 


THE CQUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


223 


obtained from the celebrated " dappled greys,” now changed 
into a couple of dull, sluggish, stupid brutes as, was a slow, pot- 
tering pace, kept up with so much difficulty that Mdme. de Ville- 
fort was more than a couple of hours returning to her residence in 
the Faubourg St. Honore. 

Scarcely had the first congratulations upon her marvellous es- 
cape been gone through, than she retired to her room, ostensibly 
for the purpose of seeking a little repose, but in reality to write to 
Mdme. Danglars her account of it. 

Nothing was talked of throughout the evening but the adven- 
ture. Albert related it to his mother, Chateau-Renaud recounted 
it at the Jockey Club, and Debray detailed it at length in the 
salons of the minister; even Beauchamp accorded twenty lines in 
his journal to the relation of the count’s courage and gallantry, 
thereby placing him as the greatest hero of the day before the 
eyes of all the fair members oi *he aristocracy of France. 
Vast was the crowd of visitors and inquiring friends who left theii 
names at the hotel of Mdme. de Villefort, with the design of re- 
newing their visit at the right moment, of hearing from her lips 
all the interesting circumstances of this most romantic adventure. 
M. de Villefort donned his best black suit, drew on a pair of new 
white kid gloves, ordered the servants to attend the carriage 
dressed in their full livery, and forthwith drove to the count’s resi- 
dence. 


CHAPTER XXXI. 

IDEOLOGY. 

' Hated by many, but warmly protected by others, without being 
really liked by anybody, M. de Villefort held a high position in 
the magistracy, and maintained his eminence. His drawing-room, 
regenerated by a young wife and a daughter by his first marriage 
scarcely eighteen, was still one of those well-regulated Paris draw, 
ing-rooms where the worship of traditional customs and the ob- 
servance of rigid etiquette were carefully maintained. A freezing 
politeness, a strict fidelity to government principles, a profound 
contempt for theories and theorists, a deep-seated hatred of ideality, 
— these were the elements of private and public life displayed by 
M. de Villefort. 

M. de Villefort was not only a magistrate, he was almost a 
diplomatist. He had the reputation of being the least inquisitive and 
the least wearisome man in France. He gave a ball every year, at 
which he appeared for a quarter of an hour only, — that is to say, 
five-and-forty minutes less than a king is visible at his balls. He 
was never seen in any place of public resort. Occasionally, but 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


£24 

seldom, he played at whist, and then care was taken to select 
partners worthy of him. Such was the man whose carriage had 
just now stopped before the Count of Monte-Cristo’s door. The 
valet-de-cliambre announces M. de Villefort at the moment when 
the count, leaning over a large table, was tracing on a map the 
route from St. Petersburg to China. 

The attorney general entered with the same grave and measured 
step employed in entering a court of justice. He was the same 
man, or rather the completion of the same man, whom we have 
heretofore seen as deputy at Marseilles. From slender he had 
become meagre ; from pale, yellow ; his deep-set eyes were now 
hollow, and gold spectacles, as they shielded his eyes, seemed to 
make a portion of his face. All his costume was black, with the 
exception of his white cravat, and this funeral appearance was 
only broken in upon by the slight line of red riband which passed 
almost imperceptibly through his button-hole, and which appeared 
like a streak of blood traced with a pencil. Although master of 
himself, Monte-Cristo scrutinized with irrepressible curiosity the 
magistrate, whose salute he returned, and who, distrustful by 
habit, and especially incredulous as to social marvels, was much 
more disposed to see in the noble stranger, as Monte-Cristo was 
already called, a chevalier (T Industrie, who had come to try new 
ground, or some malefactor who had broken his prescribed limits, 
than a prince of the Holy See, or a sultan of the ‘ Arabian Nights/ 

“Sir,” said Villefort, in the tone assumed by magistrates in 
their oratorical periods, and of which they cannot, or will not, di- 
vest themselves in society, — “ sir, the signal service which you 
yesterday rendered to my wife and son has made it a duty 
in me to offer you my thanks. Allow me, therefore, to discharge 
this duty, and to express to you all my gratitude.” And as he said 
this, the magistrate had lost nothing of his habitual arrogance. 
These words he articulated in the voice of a lawyer, with the 
rigid inflexibility of neck and shoulders which caused his flatterers 
to say that he was the living statue of the law. 

“ Sir,” replied the count, with a chilling air, “ I am very happy 
to have been the means of preserving a son to his mother, for 
they say that the sentiment of maternity is the most holy of all ; 
and the good fortune which occurred to me, monsieur, might have 
enabled you to dispense with a duty which, in its discharge, con- 
fers an undoubtedly great honor ; for I am aware that M. de Ville- 
fort is not lavish of the favor he bestows on me, but which, how- 
ever estimable, is unequal to the satisfaction which I internally 
experience.” Villefort, astonished at this reply, which he by no 
means expected, started like a soldier who feels the blow levelled 
at him over the armour he wears, and a curl of his disdainful lip 
indicated that from that moment he noted in the tablets of his 
brain that the Count of Monte-Cristo was by no means a highly- 
bred gentleman. He glanced around, in order to seize on something 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CEISTO. 


225 


on which the conversation might turn, and seemed to fall easily. 
He saw the map which Monte-Cristo had been examining when 
he entered, and said, — “You seem geographically engaged, sir? 
It is a rich study for you, who, as I learn, have seen as many 
lands as are delineated on this map.” 

“Yes, sir,” replied the count ; “ I have sought to make on the 
human race, taken as a mass, what you practice every day on 
individuals — a physiological study. I nave believed it was much 
easier to descend from the whole to a part than to ascend from a 
part to the whole. It is an algebraic axiom, which makes us pro- 
ceed from a known to an unknown quantity, and not from an 
unknown to a known ; but sit down, sir, I beg of you.” 

Monte-Cristo pointed to a chair, vhich the caller was obliged to 
take the trouble to move forward himself, whilst the count merely 
fell back into his own, on which he had been kneeling when M. 
Villefort entered. Thus the count was half-way turned toward 
his visitor, having his back toward the window, his elbow resting 
on the geographical chart which afforded the conversation for the 
moment, — a conversation which assumed, as had done those with 
Danglars and Morcerf, a turn analogous to the persons, if not the 
situation. “Ah, you philosophize,’’ replied Villefort, after a mo- 
ment’s silence, during which, like a wrestler &gt;*ho encouters a 
powerful opponent, he took breath; “well, sir, really, if, like 
you, I had nothing else to do, I should seek a more amusing oc- 
cupation.” 

“ Why, in truth, sir,” was Monte-Cristo’ s reply, “ man is but an 
ugly caterpillar for him who studies him through a solar micro- 
cope ; but you said, I think, that I had nothing else tc do. Now, 
really, let me ask, sir, have you? — do you believe you have any- 
thing to do ? or to speak in plain terms, do you really think that 
what you do deserves being called anything?” 

Villefort’ s astonishment redoubled at this second thrust so forci- 
bly made by his strange adversary. It was a long time since 
the magistrate had heard a paradox so strong, or rather, to say the 
truth more exactly, it was the first time he had ever heard of 
it. He exerted himself to reply. “ Sir,” he responded, “ you are 
a foreigner, and I believe you say yourself that a portion of your 
life has been spent in Oriental countries : thus, then, you are not 
aware how human justice, so expeditious in barbarous countries, 

takes with us a prudent and well-studied course.” “ Oh, yes — 

yes, I do, sir, it is the pedeclaudo\ of the ancients. I know all that, for 
it is with the justice of all countries especially that I have occu- 
pied myself — it is with the criminal procedure of all nations that I 
have compared natural justice, and I must say, sir, that it is the 
law of primitive nations, that is, the law of retaliation, that I 
have most frequently found to be according to the law of God.” 
“But with what motive have you studied all this ? ’’inquired 
Villefort, astonished. Monte-Cristo smiled. 

15 


226 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CKISTO. 


“ Really, sir/' he observed, “ I see that in spite of the reputa- 
tion which you have acquired as a superior man, you contemplate 
everything in the material and vulgar view of society, beginning 
with man, and ending with man — with eyes fixed on the social or- 
ganization of nations, you see only the springs of the machine, 
and lose sight of the sublime workman who makes them act ; I say 
that you do not recognize before you and around you any but 
those placemen whose brevets have been signed by the minister or 
the king ; and that the men whom God has put above those 
titulars, ministers, and kings, by giving them a mission to follow 
out, instead of a post to fill — I say that they escape your narrow, 
limited ken. It is thus that human weakness fails, from its debili- 
tated and imperfect organs,” 

“Then,” said Villefort, more and more amazed, and really sup- 
posing he was speaking to a mystic or a madman, “ you consider 
yourself as one of extraordinary beings?” 

“And why not?” said Monte-Cristo, coldly. 

“Your pardon, sir,” replied Villefort, quite astounded, “upon 
my word, you overcome me. I really never heard a person speak 
as you do.” 

“ Because you remain eternally encircled in a round of general 
conditions, and have never dared to raise your wing into those 
upper spheres which God his peopled with invisible or marked 
beings.” 

“Ah ! ” said Villefort, smiling, “ I confess I should like to be 
warned when one of these beings is in contact with me.” 

“You have been served as you desire, monsieur, for you have 
been warned just now, and I now again warn you.” 

“Then you yourself are one of these marked beings?” 

“ Yes, monsieur, I believe so ; for until now, no man has founf 
himself in a position similar to mine. The dominions of kings are 
limited either by mountains or rivers, or a change of manners, or 
an alteration of language. My kingdom is bounded only by the 
world, for I am neither an Italian, nor a Frenchman, nor a 
Hindoo, nor an American, nor a Spaniard — I am a cosmopolitan. 
No country can say it saw my birth. God alone knows what 
country will see me die. I adopt all customs, speak all languages. 
You believe me to be a Frenchman, for I speak French with the 
same facility and purity as yourself. Well, Ali, my Nubian, be- 
lieves me to be an Arab ; Bertuccio, my steward, takes me for g 
Roman ; Haydee, my slave, thinks me a Greek. You may, there- 
fore, comprehend, that being of no country/asking no protection 
from any government, acknowledging no man as my brother, not 
one of the scruples that arrest the powerful, or the obstacles which 
paralyze the weak, paralyze or arrest me. I have only two adver- 
saries — I will not say two conquerors, for with perseverance I sub- 
due even them, though they are time and distance. There is a 
third, and the n#&gt;st terrible — that is my condition as a mortal 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


22 ? 

being. This alone can stop me in my onward career, and before 
I have attained the goal at which I aim, for all the rest I have cal- 
culated. What men call the chances of fate — namely, ruin, 
change, circumstances — I have anticipated them all ; and if any 
of these should overtake me, yet they will not overwhelm me. 
Unless I die, I shall always be what I am, and therefore it is that 
I utter the things you have never heard, even from the mouths of 
kings — for kings have need, and other persons have fear of you. 
i For who is there who does not say to himself, in society as in- 
congruously organized as ours, 4 Perhaps some day I shall have to 
'do with the Public Prosecutor! ’ ” 

•* But can you not say that, sir? For the moment you become 
an inhabitant of France, you are naturally subjected to the French 
law.” 

“I know it, sir,” replied Monte-Cristo ; “but when I visit a 
country I begin to study, by all the means which are available, the 
men from whom I may have anything to hope or to fear, until I 
know them as well, perhaps better, that they know themselves. 
It follows from this, that the Attorney General be he who he 
may, with whom I should have to deal, would assuredly be more 
embarrassed than I should.” 

‘‘That is to say,” replied Villefort, with hesitation, 44 thathuman 
nature being weak, every man, according to your creed, has com- 
mitted faults.” 44 Faults or crimes,” responded Monte-Cristo, 

with a negligent air. 

44 And that you alone, amongst the men whom you do not rec- 
ognize as your brothers — for you have said so,” observed Ville- 
fort, in a tone that faltered somewhat — 44 you alone are perfect.” 

44 No, not perfect,” was the count’s reply , 44 only impenetrable, 
that’s all. But let us leave off this strain, sir, if the tone of it is 
displeasing to you ; I am no more disturbed by your justice than 
are you by my second-sight.” 

44 No ! no! — by no means,” said Villefort, who was afraid of 
seeming to abandon his ground. 44 No ; by your brilliant and al- 
most sublime conversation you have elevated me above the 
ordinary level ; we no longer talk, we rise to dissertation. But I 
will say to you, rude as it may seem, 4 My brother, you sacrifice 
greatly to pride •, you may be above others, but above you there 
is God.’ ” 

44 Above us all, sir,” was Monte-Cristo’s response, in a tone and 
with an emphasis so deep, that Villefort involuntarily shuddered. 
44 1 have my pride for men — serpents always ready to erect them- 
selves against every one who may pass without crushing them. 
But I lay aside that pride before God, who has taken me from 
nothing to make me what am.” 

“Then, my Lord, I admire you,” said Villefort, who, for the 
first time in this strange conversation, used the aristocratical title 
to the unknown personage. 44 Yes, and I $ay to you, if you ars 


228 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


really strong, really superior, really pious, or impenetrable, which 
you were right in saying amounts to the same thing — yet be proud, 
sir, that is the characteristic of predominance — yet you have un- 
questionably some ambition.” 

“ I too, as happens to every man once in his life, have been 
taken by Satan into the highest mountain in the earth, and when 
there he showed me all the kingdoms of the earth, and as he said 
before, so said he to me, 1 Child of earth, what wouldst thou have 
to make thee adore me ? * I reflected long, for a gnawing ambi- 
tion had long preyed upon me, and then I replied, * Listen, — I 
have always heard tell of Providence, and yet I have never seen 
Him, nor anything that resembles Him, or which can make me 
believe that He exists. I wish to be Providence myself, for I feel 
that the most beautiful, noblest, most sublime thing in the world, 
is to recompense and punish.’ Satan bowed his head, and 
groaned. * You mistake,’ he said ; 1 Providence does exist, only 
you have never seen Him, because the child of God is as invisible 
as the parent. You have seen nothing that resembles Him, be- 
cause He works by secret springs, and moves by hidden ways. 
All I can do for you is to make you one of the agents of that Prov- 
idence.’ The bargain was concluded. I may sacrifice my soul, 
but what matters it? ” added Monte-Cristo. “If the thing were 
to do again, I would again do it.” 

Villefort looked at Monte-Cristo with extreme amazement. 
“ My Lord,” he inquired, “ have you any relatives ? ” 

“ No, sir, I am alone in the world.” 

“ So much the worse.” “ Why ? ” asked Monte-Cristo. 

“Because then you might witness a spectacle calculated to 
break down your pride. There is something to fear besides death, 
old age, and madness. For instance, there is apoplexy — that 
lightning-stroke which strikes but does not destroy you, and yet 
after which all is ended. Come, if so you will, and continue this 
conversation at my house, any day you may be willing to see an 
adversary capable of understanding and anxious to refute you, 
and I will show you my father, M. Noirtier de Villefort, one of the 
most fiery Jacobins of the French Revolution; most remarkable 
audacity, seconded by a most powerful organization — a man who, 
perhaps, has not, like yourself, seen all the kingdoms of the earth, 
but who has helped to overturn one of the most powerful ; in fact, 
a man who, like you, believed himself one of the envoys — not of 
God — but of a Supreme Being ; not of Providence, but of Fate. 
Well, sir, the rupture of a blood-vessel on the lobe of the brain has 
destroyed all this — not in a day, not in an hour — but in a second. 
Noirtier, so redoubted, was the next morning poor old Noirtier , the 
helpless old man, at the tender mercies of the weakest creature in 
the household, that is, his grandchild, Valentine ; a dumb and 
frozen carcass, in fact, who only lives without suffering, that time 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 229 

may be given to his frame to decompose without his consciousness 
of his decay.” 

"Alas, sir!” said Monte-Cristo, "this spectacle is neither 
strange to my eye nor my thought. I am something of a physi- 
cian, and have, like my fellows, sought more than once for the 
soul in living and in dead matter ; yet, like Providence, it has 
remained invisible to my eyes, although present to my heart. A 
hundred writers have made the comparison, and yet I can well 
understand that a father’s sufferings may effect great changes in a 
son, I will call on you, sir, since you bid me contemplate, for the 
advantage of my pride, this terrible spectacle, which must spread 
so much sorrow throughout your house.” 

" It would have done so unquestionably, had not God given me 
so large a compensation. In presence of the old man, who is 
dragging his way to the tomb, are two children just entering into 
life — Valentine, the daughter by my first wife, Mdlle. Renee de 
Saint-Meran, and Edward, the boy whose life you have this day 
saved.” 

" And what do you argue from this compensation, sir ? ” inquired 
Monte-Cristo. 

" My reasoning is,” replied Villefort, "triat my father, led away 
Iby his passions, has committed some fault unknown to human 
justice, but marked by the justice of God. That God, desirous in 
His mercy to punish but one person, has visited this justice on him 
alone.” Monte-Cristo, with a smile on his lips, had yet a groan at 
his heart, which would have made Villefort flee had he but heard 
it. " Adieu, sir,” said the magistrate, who had risen from his 
seat ; " I leave you, bearing a remembrance of you — a remem- 
brance of esteem, which I hope will not be disagreeable to you 
when you know me better ; for I am not a man to bore my friends, 
as you will learn. Besides, you have made an eternal friend of 
Mdme. de Villefort.” The count bowed, and contented himself 
with seeing Villefort to the door of his cabinet, the proctor being 
escorted to his carriage by two footmen, who, on a signal from 
their master, followed him with every mark of attention. When 
he had gone, Monte-Cristo drew a hard breath from his oppressed 
bosom, and said, — M Enough of this poison, let me now seek the 
antidote.” 


CHAPTER XXXII. 

THE MORREL FAMILY. 

In a short time the count reached No. 7 in the Rue Meslay. 
The house was of white stone, and in a small court before it were 
two small beds full of beautiful flowers. In the janitor that opened 


230 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


tfu gate the count recognized Codes ; but as he had but one eye ( 
and that eye had considerably weakened in the course of nine 
years, Codes did not so readily recognize the count. The house, 
raised above the kitchens and cellars, had, besides the ground- 
floor, two stories and attics. The whole of the property, consist- 
ing of an immense workshop, two pavilions at the bottom of the 
garden, and the garden itself, had been purchased by Emmanuel, 
who had seen at a glance that he could make a profitable specula- 
tion of it. He had reserved the house and half the garden, and 
building a wall between the garden and the workshops, had let 
them upon lease with the pavilions at the bottom of the garden. So 
that for a trifling sum he was as well lodged, and as perfectly shut 
out from observation, as the inhabitants of the finest mansion. 
The whole of the second story was set apart for Maximilian ; it 
was precisely the same as his sister’s apartments, except that the 
breakfast-parlor was changed into a billiard-room, where he re- 
ceived his friends. He was superintending the dressing down of 
his horse, and smoking his cigar at the entrance of the garden, 
when the count’s carriage stopped at the door. 

“ The Count of Monte-Cristo ? ” cried Morrel, throwing away 
his cigar and hastening to the carriage ; “ I should think we would 
see him. Ah ! a thousand thanks, for not having forgotten your 
promise.” And the young officer shook the count’s hand so 
warmly, that the latter could not be mistaken as to the sincerity of 
his joy, and he saw that he had been expected with impatience, 
and was received with pleasure. “ Come, cornel” said Maximil- 
ian, “ I will serve as your guide : such a man as you ought not to 
be introduced by a servant. My sister is in the garden plucking 
the dead roses ; my brother reading his two papers, within five 
steps of her, for wherever you see Mdme. Herbault, you have only 
to look within a circle of four yards and you will find M. 
Emmanuel, and * reciprocally,’ as they say at the Polytechnic 
School.” 

At the sound of their steps a young woman of twenty, dressed 
in a silk wrap, and busily engaged in plucking the dead leaves off 
the splendid rose-tree, raised her head. This female was Julie, 
who had become, as the clerk of the house of Thomson and 
French had predicted, Mdme. Emmanuel Herbault. She uttered 
a cry of surprise at the sight of a stranger, and Maximilian began 
to laugh. “ Don’t disturb yourself, Julie,” said he. “ The count 
has only been two or three days in Paris, but he already knows 
what a woman of fashion of the Swampward is, and if he does not, 
you will show him.” 

“ Ah ! ” returned Julie, " it is unfair in my brother to bring you 
thus, but he never has any regard for his poor sister. Penelon ! ” 
An old man, who was digging busily at one of the beds of roses, 
stuck his spade in the earth, and approached, cap in hand, and 
striving to conceal a quid of tobacco thrust into his cheek. A few 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


231 


iocks of grey mingled witn ms nair, which was still thicK and mat- 
ted, whilst his bronzed features and determined glance announced 
the old sailor who had braved the heat of the equator and the 
storms of the tropics. 44 I think you hailed me, Mdlle. Julie ?” 
said he. 44 Penelon,” replied Julie, 44 go and inform M. Emmanuel 
of this gentleman’s visit, and Maximilian will conduct him to the 
parlor.’’ Then, turning to Monte-Cristo, t ontinued she, “ I hope 
you will permit me to leave you for a few minutes,” and without 
awaiting any reply, disappeared behind a clump of trees, and 
entered the house by a lateral alley. 

44 I am sorry to see,” observed Monte-Cristo to Morrel, 44 that I 
cause no small disturbance in your house.” 

44 Look there,” said Maximilian, laughing ; *• there is her hus- 
band changing his jacket for a coat. I assure you, you are well 
known in the Rue Meslay.” 

44 Your family appears to be a very happy one ! ” said the count, 
as if speaking t® himself. 

44 Oh, yes, I assure you, they want nothing that can render them 
happy ; they are young and cheerful, they are tenderly attached 
to each other, and with twenty-five thousand francs a year they 
fancy themselves as rich as Rothschild.” 

44 Five-and-twenty thousand francs is not a large sum, how- 
ever,” replied Monte-Cristo, with a tone so sweet and gentle, that 
it went to Maximilian’s heart like the voice of a father ; 44 but they 
will not be content with that : your brother-in-law is a barrister ? 
or doctor ? ’ ’ 

44 He was a merchant, and had succeeded to the business of my 
poor father. M. Morrel, at his death, left 500,000 francs which 
were divided between my sister and myself, for we were his only 
children. Her husband, who, when he married her, had no other 
patrimony than his noble probity, his first-rate ability, and his 
spotless reputation, wished to possess as much as his wife. He 
labored and toiled until he had amassed 250,000 francs ; six years 
sufficed to achieve this object. Oh, I assure you, it was a touch- 
ing spectacle to see these young creatures, destined by their talents 
for higher stations, toiling together, and, unwilling to change any 
of the customs of their paternal house, taking six years to accom- 
plish that which innovators would have effected in two or three, 
Marseilles resounded with their well-earned praises.” 

Maximilian had scarcely finished hit/ story, during which the 
count’s heart had seemed ready to burst, when Emmanuel entered, 
full dressed. He saluted the count with the air of a man aware of 
the rank of his guest ; then, after having led Monte-Cristo round 
the little garden, he returned to the house. A large vase of Japan 
porcelain, filled with flowers, stood in the parlor. Julie, suitably 
dressed, and her hair arranged (she had accomplished this feat in 
less than ten minutes), received the count on his entrance. Every- 
thing in this charming retreat, from the warble of the birds to the 


2$2 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


smile oi the mistress, breathed tranquillity and repose.— 
11 Madame/’ said the count at length, tl I pray you to excuse my 
emotion, which must astonish you, accustomed to the happiness I 
meet here ; but satisfaction is so new a sight to me, that I could 
never be weary of looking at yourself and your husband.” 
f 44 We are very happy, monsieur,” replied Julie ; 41 but we have 
also known unhappiness, and few have ever undergone more bitter 
sufferings than ourselves.” The count’s features displayed an ex- 
pression of the most intense curiosity. 

44 Our magnificence makes you smile, count,” said Maximilian, 
who had followed him with his eyes. 44 No, no,” returned Monte- 
Cristo, pale as death, pressing one hand on his heart to still its 
throbbings, whilst with the other he pointed to a glass shade, 
beneath which a silken purse lay on a black velvet cushion. 44 1 
was wondering what could be the use of this purse, which contains 
a paper at one end and at the other a large diamond .” — 44 Count,” 
replied Maximilian, with an air of gravity, 44 those are our most 
precious family treasures.” 

44 The stone seems very brilliant,” answered the count. 

44 Oh, my brother does not allude to its value, although it has 
been estimated at 100,000 francs ; he means, that the articles con- 
tained in this purse are the relics of the angel I spoke of just 
now.” 

44 This I do not comprehend ; and yet I may not ask for an ex- 
planation, madam,” replied Monte-Cristo, bowing. 44 Pardon 
me, I had no intention of commiting an indiscretion.” 

44 Sir,” returned Maximilian, raising the glass cover, and re- 
spectfully kissing the silken purse, 44 this has touched the hand of 
a man who saved my father from suicide, us from ruin, and our 
name from shame and disgrace, — a man by whose matchless be- 
nevolence we, poor children, doomed to want and wretchedness, 
can at present hear every one envying our happy lot. This letter ” 
(as he spoke, Maximilian drew a letter from the purse and gave it 
to the count ) — 44 this letter was written by him the day that my 
father had taken a desperate resolution, and this diamond was 
given by the generous unknown to my sister as her dowry.” 
Monte-Cristo opened the letter, and read it with an indescribable 
feeling of delight. It was the letter written (as our readers know) 
to Julie, and signed 44 Sinbad the Sailor.” 44 Unknown you say, is 
the man who rendered you this service — unknown to you ? ” 
j 44 Yes ; we have never had the happiness of pressing his hand,” 
'continued Maximilian. 44 We have supplicated Heaven in vain to 
grant us this favor, but all the affair has had a mysterious direc- 
tion we cannot comprehend — all has been guided by a hand in- 
visible, but powerful as that of an enchanter.” 

44 Oh ! ” cried Julie, 44 I have not lost all hope of some day kiss- 
ing that hand, as I now kiss the purse which he has touched. 
Four years ago, Penelon the old sailor you saw in the garden, and 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


23J 

who has become gardener — Penelon, when he was at Trieste, saw 
on the quay an Englishman, who was on the point of embarking 
on board a yacht, and he recognized him as the person who 
called on my father the 5th of June, 1829, and who wrote me this 
letter on the 5 th of September. He felt convinced of his identity, 
but he did not venture to address him.” 

“ An Englishman ! ” said Monte-Cristo, who grew uneasy at the 
attention with which Julie looked at him. M An Englishman, you 
say ?” 

“ Yes,” replied Maximilian, M an Englishman, who represented 
himself as the confidential clerk of the house of Thomson and 
French, at Rome. It was this that made me start when you said 
the other day, at M. de Morcerf’ s that Messrs. Thomson and 
French were your bankers. That happened, as I told you, in 1829. 
Tell me, did you know this Englishman ? ” 

“ But you tell me, also, that the house of Thomson and French 

have constantly denied having rendered you this service ? ” 

•&lt; Yes.” 

* 4 Then it is not probable that this Englishman may be some 
one who, grateful for a kindness your father had shown him, and 
which he himself had forgotten, has taken this method of requiting 
the obligation ? ’ ’ 

“ Everything is possible on such an occasion, even a miracle.” 

“ What was his name?” asked Monte-Cristo. 

“ He gave no other name,” answered Julie, looking earnestly at 
the count, “ than that at the end of his letter — • Sinbad the 
Sailor.’ ” 

0 Which is evidently not his real name, but a fictitious one.” 
Then, noticing that Julie was struck with the sound of his voice, — 
“Tell me,” continued he, “ was he not about my height, per- 
haps a little taller, his chin imprisoned, to use the word, in a high 
cravat ; his coat closely buttoned up, and constantly taking out his 
pencil ? ” 

“ Oh, do you then know him ? ” cried Julie, whose eyes sparkled 
with joy. 

“No,” returned Monte-Cristo, “I only guessed. I knew a 
Lord Wilmore, who was constantly doing actions of this kind. 

“ Without revealing himself? ” 

“ He was an eccentric being. If Lord Wilmore was your un- 
known benefactor, I fear you will never again see him. I parted 
from him, two years ago, at Palermo, and he was then on the 
point of setting out for the most remote regions ; so that I fear he 
will never return.” 

“ And he told you nothing ?/* 

“ Not a word.” 

“And yet you instantly named him.” 

“ Ah, in such a case one supposes ” 

*• Sister, sister,” said Maximilian, coming to the count’s aid. 


234 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


the count is quite right. Recollect what our excellent father &amp;0 
often told us, * It was no Englishman that thus saved us/*’ 
Monte-Cristo started. " What did your father tell you, M. Mor- 
rel?” said he, eagerly. 

“ My father thought that this action had been miraculously per- 
formed — he believed that a benefactor had arisen from the grave 
to save us. Oh, it was a touching superstition, monsieur, and al- 
though I did not myself believe it, I would not for the world have 
destroyed my father’s faith in it. How often did he muse over it 
and pronounce the name of a dear friend — a friend lost to him for- 
ever ; and on his death-bed, when the near approach of eternity 
seemed to have illumined his mind with supernatural light, this 
thought, which had until then been but a doubt, became a convic- 
tion, and his last words were, * Maximilian it was Edmond Dan- 
tes ! ” ’ 

At these words the count’s paleness, which had for sometime 
been increasing, became alarming ; he could not speak ; he 
looked at his watch like a man who has forgotten the time ; said a 
few hurried words to Mdme Herbault, and pressing the hands of 
Emmanuel and Maximilian, — “ Madame/* said he, " I trust you 
will allow me to visit you from time to time ; I value your friend- 
ship, and feel grateful to you for your welcome, for this is the first 
time for many years that I have thus yielded to my feelings ; ” 
and he hastily quitted the apartment. 

“ This Count Monte-Cristo is a singular man,” said Emmanuel. 

" Yes,” answered Maximilian, ** but I feel sure he has an excel- 
lent heart, and that he likes us.” 

“ His voice went to my heart,” observed Julie ; u and two or 
three times I fancied I had heard it before.” 


CHAPTER XXXIII. 

PYRAMUS AND THISBE. 

About the centre of the Saint Honore ward, and at the back df 
one of the most distinguished-looking mansions in this rich neigh- 
borhood, extended a large garden. This noble resort had fallen 
into utter disuse, from the period when the proprietors (and many 
years had elapsed since then) had confined themselves to the pos- 
session of the mansion with its thickly-planted court-yard, opening 
into the Faubourg Saint-Honore, and the garden shut in by this 
gate, which formerly communicated with a fine kitchen-garden of 
about an acre in extent, let temporarily to some market-gardeners. 

Horticulture seemed, however, to have been abandoned in the 
deserted kitchen-garden ; and where the most choice and delicate 
of fruits and vegetables once reared thek heads, a scanty crop of 


' THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


23 s 

alfalfa alone bore evidence of its being deemed worthy of cultiva- 
tion. A small, low door gave egress from the walled space we 
have been describing into the projected street, the ground having 
been abandoned as unproductive by its various renters, and had 
now fallen so completely in general estimation as to return not 
even a fraction of the poor rent it had originally paid. Towards 
the house chestnut trees rose high above the wail, without in any 
way affecting the growth of other luxuriant shrubs and flowers 
that eagerly pressed forward to fill up the vacant spaces, as though 
asserting their right to enjoy the boon of light and air also. At 
one corner, where the foliage became so thick as almost to shut 
out day, a large stone bench and sundry rustic seats indicated 
that this sheltered spot was either in general favor or particular 
use by some inhabitant of the hotel, which was faintly discernible 
through the dense mass of verdure that partially concealed it, 
though situated but a hundred paces off. 

On the evening of one of the warmest spring days, might be seen, 
negligently thrown upon the stone bench, a book, a parasol, and 
a work-basket, from which hung a partly-embroidered cambric 
handkerchief, while, at a little distance from these articles was a 
girl standing close to the iron gate, endeavoring to discern 
something on the other side by means of the openings in the planks, 
whilst the earnestness of her attitude, and the fixed gaze with 
which she seemed to seek the object of her wishes, proved how 
much her feelings were interested in the matter. At that instant the 
little side-door, leading from the waste ground to the street, was 
noiselessly opened, and a tall powerful young man, dressed in a 
common grey blouse and velvet cap, but whose carefully-arranged 
hair, beard, and moustaches, all of the richest and glossiest black, 
but ill accorded with his plebeian attire, after casting a rapid 
glance around him, in order to assure himself he was unobserved, 
entered by this door, and carefully closing and securing it after 
him, proceeded with a hurried step towards the iron gate. 

At the sight of him she expected, though probably not under 
such a costume, the female we have before mentioned started in 
terror, and was about to make a hasty retreat. But the eye of 
love had already seen, even through the narrow chinks of the 
wooden palisades, the movement of the white robe, and observed 
the fluttering of the blue sash fastened around the slender waist of 
his fair neighbor. Pressing his lips close to the envious planks 
that prevented his further progress, he exclaimed, “ Fear nothing, 
Valentine — it is I ! ” Again the timid girl found courage to re- 
turn to the gate, saying, as she did so, “ And wherefore come you 
so late to-day ? It is almost the dinner-hour, and I have been 
compelled to exercise my utmost skill to get rid of the incessant 
watchfulness of my mother-in-law, as well as the espionage of my 
maid, who, no doubt, is employed to report all I do and say. Nor 
has it cost me a little trouble to free myself from the troublesome 


236 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


society of my brother, under pretence of coming hither to work tin* 
disturbed at my embroidery, which, by the way, I am in no hurry 
v to finish. So pray excuse yourself as well as you can for having 
made me wait, and after that, tell me why I see you in so singular 
a dress, that at first I did not recognize you.” 

‘‘Dearest Valentine ! ” said the young man, “let me tell you I 
have chosen a trade. Tired out with ranging fields and scaling 
walls, and seriously alarmed at the idea suggested by yourself, 
that if caught hovering about here your father would very likely 
have me sent to prison as a thief, a sort of thing not very desirable 
for an officer in the French army, whose continual presence in a 
place where no warlike projects could be supposed to account for 
it might well create surprise ; so from a captain of Spahis I have 
become a gardener, and, consequently, adopted the costume o £ 
my calling.” 

“ I beseech of you, Maximilian, to cease trifling, and tell me 
what you really mean.* 1 

“ Simply, that having ascertained that the piece of ground on 
which 1 stand was to let, I made application for it, was readily 
accepted by the proprietor, and am now master of this fine crop of 
alfalfa ! Think of that, Valentine ! Henceforth we have nothing 
to fear. I am on my own ground, and have an undoubted right 
to place a ladder against the wall, artd to look over when I please, 
without having any apprehensions of being taken off by the police 
as a suspicious character. 1 may also enjoy the precious privilege 
of assuring you of my fond, faithful, and unalterable affection. 
Whenever you visit your favorite bower, unless, indeed, it offends 
your pride to listen to professions of love from the lips of a poor 
working man. 0 A faint cry of mingled pleasure and surprise es- 
caped from the lips of Valentine, who almost instantly said, in a 
saddened tone, as though some envious cloud darkened the joy 
which illumined her heart, “Alas! no Maximilian, this must not 
be, for many reasons ! We should presume too much on our own 
strength, and, like others, perhaps g je led astray by our blind con. 
fidence in each other’s prudence/ 1 

“ How can you for an instant entertain so unworthy a thought, 
dear Valentine ? Have I not, from the first blessed hour of our 
acquaintance, schooled all my words and actions to your senti- 
ments and ideas? And you have, I am sure, the fullest confi- 
dence in my honor. You told me, my dear Valentine, that you 
wele engaged to M. d’Epinay, and that your father was resolved 
upon completing the match, and that from his will there was no 
appeal, as M. de Villefort was never known to change a determin- 
ation once formed. I kept in the background, as you wished. 
You have permitted me to converse with you from time to time, 
Valentine, but forbidden my ever following you in your walks or 
elsewhere — have I not obeyed? ” 

** It is indeed most true/* said Valentine, as she passed the end 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


237 


of her slender fingers through a small opening in the planks, thus 
permitting her lover to press his lips to the taper finger that al- 
most instantly disappeared, •• and you are a true and faithful 
friend ; a brother. I, who have no friend but yourself upon earth, 
neglected and forgotten by my father, harassed and persecuted by 
my mother-in-law, and left to the sole companionship of a para- 
lyzed and speechless old man, whose withered hand can no longer 
press mine, and whose eye alone converses with me, while, doubt- 
less, however fixed, chilled his frame, there still lingers in his 
heart the warmest tenderness for his poor grandchild. Oh, how 
bitter a fate is mine, to serve either as a victim or an enemy to all 
who are stronger than myself, while my only friend and supporter 
is but a living corpse ! Indeed, indeed, Maximilian, I am very 
miserable, and you are right to love me for myself alone.” 

" Dear Valentine,” replied the young man, deeply affected, M. 
Franz is not expected to return home for a year to come, I am 
told ; in that time many favorable and unforeseen chances may 
befriend us. Let us, then, hope for the best : hope is so sweet a 
comforter.” 

“ Maximilian,” answered she; “do you not see what a poor, 
helpless being I am, almost a stranger and an outcast in my 
father’s house, where even he is seldom seen; whose will has 
been thwarted, and spirits broken, from the age of ten years, be- 
neath the iron rod so sternly exercised over me ; oppressed, . orti- 
fied, and persecuted, day by day, hour by hour, minute by 
minute ; no person has cared for, even observed my sufferings, nor 
have I ever breathed one word on the subject save to yourself. 
My father abandons me from utter indifference, while my mother- 
in-law detests me with a hatred so much the more terrible as it is 
veiled beneath a continual smile.” - » 

“Hate you, sweet Valentine!” exclaimed the young man; 
“ how is it possible for any one to do that ? ” 

“ Alas ! ” replied the weeping girl, “I am obliged to own that 
my mother-in-law’s aversion to me arises from a very natural 
source — her overweening love for her own child, my brother Ed- 
ward.” &lt; 

' “ But why should it? ” “ And I much fear she envies me the 

fortune I already enjoy in right of my mother, and which will be 
more than doubled at the death of the St. Merans, whose sole 
heiress I am. Mdme. de Villefort has nothing of her own, and 
. hates me for being so richly endowed. Alas ! how gladly would I 
exchange the half of this wealth for the happiness of at least shar- 
ing my father’s love! God knows, I would prefer sacrificing the 
whole, so that it would obtain me a happy and affectionate home.” 
“ Poor Valentine ! ” 

“ I seem to myself as though living a life of bondage, yet at the 
same time am so conscious of my own weakness that I fear to 
break the restraint in which I am held, least I fall utterly power- 


238 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


less and helpless. Then, too, my father is not a person whos$ 
orders may be infringed with impunity ; protected as he is by his 
high position and firmly-established reputation for talent and un- 
swerving integrity, no one could oppose him ; he is all-powerful 
with even his king ; you he would crush at a word, and myself 
he would cause to expire of terror at his feet. Dear Maximilian, 
believe me when I assure you that I attempt not to resist my 
father's commands more on your account than my own ; for, 
though I could willingly sacrifice myself, I would not peril your 
safety." 

“ How is that? " inquired the young man, perceiving that Val- 
entine hesitated. 

“ Tell me truly, Maximilian, whether in former days, when our 
fathers dwelt at Marseilles, there ever existed any misunderstand, 
ing between them ? " 

“ Not that I am at all aware of," replied the young man, “ unless, 
indeed, any ill-feeling might have arisen from their being of oppo- 
site parties — your father being, as you know, a zealous partisan of 
the Bourbons, while mine was wholly devoted to the emperor ; 
there could not possibly be an other difference between them. 
But now that I have answered your questions to the best of my 
power and knowledge, tell me, dearest, why you ask? " 

“ I will," replied his fair companion, “for it is but right you 
should know all. Then I must begin by referrinf to the day when 
your being made an officer of the Legion of Honor was publicly 
announced in the papers. We were all sitting in the apartments 
of my grandfather, M. Noirtier; M. Danglars was there also — 
you recollect M. Danglars, do you not, Maximilian, the banker, 
whose horses ran away with my mother-in-law and little brother, 
and very nearly killed them ? While the rest of the company 
were discussing the approaching marriage of Mademoiselle Dang- 
lars, I was occupied in reading the paper aloud to my grandfather ; 
but when I came to the paragraph concerning you, although I had 
done nothing else but read it over to myself all the morning (you 
know you had told me all about it the previous evening), I felt so 
happy, and yet so nervous, at the idea of pronouncing your be- 
loved name aloud, and before so many people, that I really think 
I should have passed it over, but for the fear that my so doing 
might create suspicions as to the cause of my silence ; so I sum- 
moned up all my courage, and read it as firmly and steadily as I 
could." 

“ Dear Valentine ! " 

“Well, would you believe it? directly my father caught the 
sound of your name he turned round quite hastily, and, like a poor 
silly thing, I was so persuaded that every one must be as much 
effected as myself by the utterance of your name, that I was not 
surprised to see my father start, and almost tremble ; but I evea 
thought (though that surely must have been a mistake) that M- 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


239 


Danglars underwent a similar emotion. He almost Immediately 
rose and took his leave ; then, for the first time, I observed the 
agitation of my grandfather, and I must tell you, Maximilian, that 
l am the only person capable of discerning emotion in the para- 
lyzed frame of my poor afflicted relative. And I suspected that 
the emotion in his presence (for no one ever cares to refrain from 
saying and doing what they like before the dear old man, without 
the smallest regard to his feelings) had made a strong impression 
on his mind ; for, naturally enough, it must have pained him to 
hear the emperor he so devotedly loved and served spoken of in 
that depreciating manner.” 

“The name of M. Noirtier,” interposed Maximilian, "is cele- 
brated throughout Europe ; he was a statesman of high standing ; 
and I know not whether you are aware, Valentine, that he took a 
leading part in every Bonapartean conspiracy set on foot during 
the restoration of the Bourbons.” 

“Oh, I have often heard whispers of things that seem tome 
most strange — the father a Bonapartist, the son a Royalist ; what 
can have been the reason of so singular a difference in parties and 
politics ? But to resume my story ; I turned towards my grand- 
father, as though to question him as to the cause of his emotion ; 
he looked expressively at the newspaper I had been reading. 
4 What is the matter, dear grandfather ? * said I, 4 are you 
pleased ? ’ He gave me a sign in the affirmative. * Oh, then, you 
were glad to hear that M. Morrel (I dared not pronounce the dear 
name of Maximilian) had been made an officer of the Legion of 
Honor ; was that it, dear grandpapa ? * He signified assent in a 
way that convinced me he was more than glad — that he was de- 
lighted ; only think of the poor old man’s being so pleased to think 
that you, who were a perfect stranger to him, had been made an 
officer of the Legion of Honor! Perhaps, though, it was a mere 
whim on his part, for he is almost falling into a second childhood ! 
but, for all that, I love him dearly, and pray that he may long be 
spared to me.” 

“ How singular,” murmured Maximilian. 

44 Hush! ” cried Valentine, suddenly, “ conceal yourself! — Go, 
go! Some one comes!” Maximilian leaped at one bound into 
his crop of lucerne, which he commenced pulling up in the most 
pitiless manner, under the pretext of being occupied in weeding it. 

44 Mademoiselle ! mademoiselle ! ” exclaimed a voice from be- 
hind the trees. 44 Madame is searching for you everywhere ; there 
are visitors in the drawing-room.” 

44 Who is it!” inquired Valentine, much agitated, 44 are they 
ladies? ” 

44 Oh, no, mademoiselle ! I believe it is some grand prince, or a 
duke, or a king, perhaps ; stay, now I remember, they said he was 
the Count of Mcnte-Cristo, and that he wished particularly to see 

you.” 


240 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


44 I will come directly,** said Valentine aloud. The name caused 
an electric shock to the individual on the other side of the iron 
gate, on whose ear the 1 I vjuill co)ne f ” of Valentine sounded the 
usual parting knell of all their interviews. 44 Now, then,*’ said 
Maximilian, as, tired with his unusual employment, he stopped to 
rest himself, by leaning on the handle of a spade he had taken 
care to furnish himself with, “ would I give much to know how it 
comes about that the Count of Monte-Cristo is acquainted with M. 
de Villefort.’* 


CHAPTER XXXIV. 

TOXICOLOGY. 

It was really the Count of Monte-Cristo who had just arrived 
at Mdme. de Villefort’s for the purpose of returning her husband’s 
visit, and at this name, as may be easily imagined, the whole house 
was in confusion. Mdme. de Villefort, who was alone in her 
drawing-room when the count was announced, desired that her 
son might be brought thither instantly to renew his thanks to the 
count ; and Edward, who heard nothing and nobody talked of for 
two whole days but this great personage, made all possible haste 
to come to him, not from obedience to his mother, not from any 
feeling of gratitude to the count, but from sheer curiosity, and that 
he might make some remark, by help of which he might find an 
opportunity for saying one of those saucy quips which made his 
mother say , — 44 Oh, that sad child ! but pray excuse him, he is 
really so acute.” 

After the first and usual civilities, the count inquired after M. de 
Villefort. 44 My husband dines with the chancellor,” replied the 
young lady ; 44 he has just gone, and I am sure he’ll be exceed- 
ingly sorry not to have had the pleasure of seeing you before he 
went.” Two visitors who were there when the count arrived, 
having gazed at him with all their eyes, retired after that reason- 
able delay which politeness admits and curiosity requires. 44 Ah ! 
what is your sister Valentine doing?” inquired Mdme. de Ville- 
fort of Edward ; 44 tell some one to bid her come here, that I may 
have the honor of introducing her to the count.** 

44 You have a daughter, then, madame ? ” inquired the count ; 
44 very young, I presume? ” 

44 The daughter of M. de Villefort,** replied the young wife , 44 by 
his first marriage, a fine well-grown girl.” 

14 But glum,’" interrupted Master Edward, snatching the feathers 
put of the tail of a splendid parroquet that was screaming on its 
gilded perch, in order to make a plume for his hat. Mdme. de 
Villefort merely cried , — 44 Silence, Edward ! ** She then added. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR1ST0. 


24I 


r- u This young madcap is, however, very nearly right, and merely 
re-echoes what he has heard me say with pain a hundred times ; 
for Mademoiselle de Villefort is, in spite of all we can do to rouse 
her, of a melancholy disposition and taciturn habit, which fre- 
quently injure the effect of her beauty. But what detains her? go, 
Edward, and see.” 

“ Because they are looking for her where she is not to be 
found.” 

•• And where are they looking for her ?’* 

“ With grandpapa Noirtier,” 

“ And do you think she is not there ? ” 

44 She is under the great chestnut-tree, ’* replied the spoiled brat, 
as he gave, in spite of his mother’s cries, live flies to the parrot. 
Mdme. de Villefort stretched out her hand to ring, intending to 
direct her waiting-maid to the spot where she would find Valentine, 
when the young lady herself entered the apartment. She ap- 
peared much dejected ; and any person who considered her at- 
tentively might have observed the traces of recent tears in her 
eyes. 

Valentine was a tall and graceful girl of nineteen years of age, 
with bright chestnut hair, deep blue eyes, and that languishing 
air so full of distinction which characterized her mother. Her 
white and slender fingers, her pearly neck, her cheeks tinted with 
varying hues, gave her at the first view the aspect of one of those 
lovely Englishwomen who have been so poetically compared in 
their manner to a swan admiring itself. She entered the apart- 
ment, and seeing near her stepmother the stranger of whom she 
had already heard so much, saluted him without any girlish awk- 
wardness, or even lowering her eyes, and with an elegance that 
redoubled the count’s attention. He rose to return the salutation. 
“ Mdlle. de Villefort, my daughter-in-law,” said Mdme. de Villefort 
to Monte-Cristo, leaning back on her sofa and motioning toward 
Valentine with her hand. 

“And Lord Monte-Cristo, king of China, emperor of Cochin- 
China,” said the young imp, looking slyly towards his sister. 

Mdme. de Villefort at this really did turn pale, and was very 
nearly angry with this household plague, who answered to the 
name of Edward ; but the count, on the contrary, smiled, and ap- 
peared to look at the boy complacently, which caused the mater- 
nal heart to bound again with joy and enthusiasm. 

“But, madame,” replied the count, continuing the conversation, 
and looking by turns at Mdme. de Villefort and Valentine, “have 
I not already had the honor of meeting you before ? I could not 
help thinking so just now ; the idea came over my mind, and as 
the young lady entered the sight of her was an additional ray of 
light thrown on a confused remembrance ; excuse me the re- 
mark.” “ I do not think it likely, sir * Mdlle. de Villefort is 


ID 


242 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


r . ot very fond of society, and we very seldom go out,” said the 
young lady. 

44 Then it was not in society that I met with you or madame, or 
this charming little merry boy. Besides, the Parisian world is 
entirely unknown to me, for, as I believe I told you, I have been 
in Paris but very few days. No, — but, perhaps, you will permit 
me to call to mind — stay ! ” The count placed his hand on his 
brow as if to collect his thoughts. 44 No — it was somewhere — 
away from here — it was at Perusa on a holiday, when chance 
brought us together ; you, Mdme. de Villefort, and your son ; i 
now remember having had the honor of meeting you.” 

4 4 1 perfectly well remember Perusa, sir, and the Hotel, and the 
feast to which you allude,” said Mdme. de Villefort, 44 but in vain 
do I tax my memory, of whose treachery I am ashamed, for I 
really do not recall to mind that I ever had the pleasure of seeing 
you before.” 

44 1 will assist your memory, madame,” continued the count; 
44 the day had been burning hot; you were waiting for horses, 
whieh were delayed in consequence of the festival. This lady was 
walking in the shade of the garden, and your son disappeared in 
pursuit of a bird.” 

44 And I caught it, mamma don’t you remember ? ” interrupted 
Edward, 44 and I pulled three such beautiful feathers out his tail.” 

44 You, madame, remained under the arbor formed by the vine ; 
do you not remember, that whilst you were seated on a stone 
bench, and whilst as I told you, Mdlle. de Villefort and your young 
son were absent, you conversed for a considerable time with some- 
body ? ” 

44 Yes, in truth, yes,” answered the young lady, turning very 
red, 44 1 do remember conversing with an individual wrapped in a 
long woollen mantle ; he was a medical man, I think.” 44 Pre- 

cisely so, madame ; this man was myself ; for a fortnight I had 
been at that hotel, during which period I had cured my valet-de- 
chambre of a fever, and my landlord of the jaundice, so that I 
really acquired a reputation as a skilful physician. We discoursed 
a long time, madame, on different subjects ; of Perugino, of 
Raffaelle, of manners, customs, of the famous aquatofana t of 
which they had told you, I think you said, that individuals in 
Perusa had preserved the secret.” 

44 Yes, true,” replied Madame de Villefort, with a kind of un- 
easiness, 44 1 remember now.” 

44 I do not recollect now all the various subjects of which we 
discoursed, madame,” continued the count, with perfect calm- 
ness ; 44 but I perfectly remember that, falling into the error which 
others had entertained respecting me, you consulted me as to the 

health of Mdlle. de Villefort.” 44 Yes, really, sir, you were in 

facta medical man,” said Mdme. de Villefort, 44 since you had 
cured the sick.” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRIS'TO. 243 

«• A wit would reply to you, madame, that it was precisely be- 
cause I was not, that I had cured my patients ; for myself, I am 
content to say to you that I have studied chemistry and the natural 
sciences somewhat deeply, but still only as an amateur, you under- 
stand.”- At this moment the clock struck six. “It is six 

o’clock,” said Mdme. de Villefort, evidently agitated. “Valen- 
tine, will you not go and see if your grandpapa will have his din- 
ner ? ” Valentine rose, and saluting the count, left the apartment 
without replying a single word. 

“ Oh, madame ! ” said the count, when Valentine had left the 
room, “was it on my account that you sent Mdlle. de Villefort 
away ? ’ ’ 

“By no means,” replied the lady quickly ; “but this is the hour 
when we give to M. Noirtier the repast which supports his sad ex- 
istence. You are aware, sir, of the deplorable condition of my 
husband’ s father ? ’ ’ 

“Yes, madame, M. de Villefort spoke of it to me — paralysis, I 
think.” 

“ Alas, yes ! there is an entire want of movement in the frame 
of the poor old gentleman ; the mind alone is still active in this 
human machine, and that is faint and flickering,, like the light of a 
lamp about to expire. But excuse me, sir, for talking of our do- 
mestic misfortunes ; I interrupted you at the moment when you 
were telling me that you were a skilful chemist.” 

“ No, madame, I did not say so much as that,” replied the 
count, with a smile ; “ quite the contrary. I have studied chem- 
istry because, having determined to live in eastern climates, I have 
been desirous of following the example of King Mithridates.” 

Mithridates, rex Ponticus ,” said the young scamp, as he tore 
some beautiful portraits out of a splendid album, “the individual 
who breakfasted every morning with a cup of poison.” 

“ Edward, you naughty boy ! ” exclaimed Mdme. de Villefort, 
snatching the mutilated book from the urchin’s grasp ; “you are 
positively past bearing ; you really disturb the conversation : go, 
leave us, and join your sister Valentine in dear grandpapa Noir- 
tier’s room.” 

“ The album,” said Edward, sulkily. 

“ How dare you tear out the drawings?” 

} “ Oh, it amuses me.” “ Go — go directly.” 

“ I won’t go unless you give me the album,” said the boy, seat- 
ing himself doggedly in an arm-chair, according to his habit of 

never giving way. “Take it, then, and pray disturb us no 

longer,” said Mdme. de Villefort, giving the album to Edward, 
who then went toward the door, led by his mother. The count 
followed her with his eyes. 

“ Let us see if she shuts the door after him,” he muttered. 
Mdme. de Villefort closed the door carefully after the child, the 
count appearing not to notice her; then casting a scrutinizing 


V P / P P I t 

1 h /* /I i» i „» 

(244 75 WE 1 COl/JVT OF MONTE GETS TO. 

glance around the chamber ; the young wife returned to her chair, 
in which she seated herself. “Allow me to observe, madame,” 
said the count, with that kind tone he could assume so w.ell, “ you 

are really very severe with that dear clever child.” “Oh, 

sometimes severity is quite necessary,” replied Mdme. de Ville- 
fort, with all a mother’s real firmness. 

“It was his Cornelius Nepos that Master Edward was repeating 
when he referred to King Mithridates,” continued the count, “ and 
you interrupted him in a quotation which proves that his tutor has 
by no means neglected him, for your son is really advanced for 
his years.” 

“The fact is,” answered the mother, agreeably flattered, “he 
has great aptitude, and learns all that is set before him. He has 
but one fault, he is somewhat wilful ; but really, on referring for 
the moment to what he said, do you truly believe that Mithridates 
used these precautions, and that these precautions were effica- 
cious? ” 

“ I think so, madame, because I — I, who now address you, have 
made use of them, that I might not be poisoned at Naples, at Pal- 
ermo, and at Smyrna — that is to say, on three several occasions of 
my life, when, but for these precautions, I must have lost my 
life.” 

“ Yes, I remember now your mentioning &lt;o me at Perusa some- 
thing of this sort.” 

“Indeed! did I?” said the count, with an air of surprise, re- 
markably well counterfeited *, “I really did not remember it.” 

“ I inquired of you if poisons acted equally, and with the same 
effect, on men of the North as on men of the South ; and you an- 
swered me that the cold and sluggish habits of the North did not 
present the same aptitude as the rich and energetic temperaments 
of the natives of the South.” 

“And that is the case,” observed Monte-Cristo, “but I per- 
ceive I have not much to teach you. Allow me to compliment you 
on your knowledge ; such learning is very rare amongst ladies.” 

“ Oh, I am aware of that,” said Mdme. de Villefort ; “ but I have 
a passion for the occult sciences, which speak to the imagination 
like poetry, the two favorite studies of my youth were botany and 
mineralogy ; and subsequently, when I learned that the use of 
simples frequently explained the whole history of a people, and the 
entire life of individuals in the East, as flowers betoken and sym- 
bolize a love affair, I have regretted I was not a man, that I might 
have been a Flamel, a Fontana, or a Cabanis.” 

“And the more, madame,” said Monte-Cristo, “ as the Orien- 
tals do not confine themselves, as did Mithridates, to make a cuir- 
ass of his poisons, but they also make them a dagger. Science 
becomes, in their hands, not only a defensive weapon, but still 
more frequently an offensive one ; the one serves against all their 
physical sufferings/ the other against all their enemies; with 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRfSTO. 345 

opium, with belladonna, with brucaed, snake-wood, the cheny- 
laurel, they put to sleep all those who would arouse them/' 

“Then,” remarked Mdme. de Villefort, “ they have discovered 
the secret of the famous aqua-tofana at Perusa.” 

“ Eh, indeed, does mankind ever lose anything ? The arts are 
removed, and make a tour of the world ; — things change their 
names, and the vulgar do not follow them — that is all ; but there 
is always the same result. Poison acts particularly on one orgaix 
or the other — one on the stomach, another on the brain, another 
on the irtestines. Well, the poison brings on a cough, the cough 
an inflammation of the lungs, or some other complaint catalogued 
in the bo)k of science, which, however, by no means precludes it 
from ben g mortal ; and if it were not, would be sure to become 
so, thank ! to the remedies applied by foolish doctors, who are 
generally bad chemists, and which will act in favor of or against 
the mabdy, as you please ; and then there is a human being killed 
according to all the rules of art and skill, and of whom justice 
learns nothing, as was said by a terrible chemist of my acquaint- 
ance, tb&gt; worthy Abbe Adelmonte of Taormine, in Sicily, who 
has studied these national phenomena very profoundly.” 

“It quite frightful, but deeply interesting,” said the young 
lady, p^tionless with attention. “ I thought, I must confess, that 

these typiles were inventions of the middle ages.” “ Yes, no 

doubt* but improved upon by ours. What is the use of time, 
encouragements, medals, crosses, Monthyon prizes, &amp;c., &amp;c., if 
they not lead society toward more complete perfection ? Yet 
man will never be perfect until he learns to create and destroy : 
he dms know how to destroy, and that is half way on the road.” 

“ &amp;&gt;o,” added Mdme. de Villefort, constantly returning to her 
object, 11 the poisons of the Borgias.” 

“ Were objects of art, madame, and nothing more,” replied the 
count. “ Do you suppose that the real savant addresses himself 
stu^dly to the mere individual? By no means. Science loves ec- 
centricities, leaps and bounds, trials of strength, fancies, if I may 
be allowed so to term them.” 

“ But,” said she, “ however skilfully it is prepared, crime is al- 
ways crime ; and if it avoid human scrutiny, it does not escape the 
of God. The Orientals are stronger than we are in cases of 
c' nscience, and, very prudently, have no hell — that is the point.” 
“ Really, madame, this is a scruple which naturally must occur 
a pure, mind like yours, but which would easily yield before 
round reasoning. The bad side of human thought will always be 
'lefined by the paradox of Rousseau, you know, the mandarin who 
s killed at 500 leagues distance by raising the tip of the finger. 
Man’s whole life passes in doing these things, and his intellect is 
exhausted by reflecting on them. You will find very few persons 
who will go and brutally thrust a knife in the heart of a fellow- 
creature, or will administer to him, in order to remove him from 


246 THE T OF MONTE CRISTO. 

the surface of the globe on which we move with life and anima* 
tion, that quantity of arsenic of which we just now talked. Such a 
thing is really out of rule — eccentric or stupid. But if instead of com- 
mitting an ignoble assassination, if you merely and simply remove 
from your path the individual who is in your way, and that with- 
out shock or violence ; if there be no blood, no groans, no con- 
vulsions, and, above all, that horrid and compromising moment of 
accomplishing the act, then one escapes the clutch of the human 
law, which says to you, 4 Do not disturb society ! ’ This is the 
mode in which they manage these things, and succeed in eastern 
climes, where there are grave and phlegmatic persons who care 
very little for the questions of time in conjunctures of importance.’ * 

44 Yet conscience remains? ” remarked Mdme. de Villefort, in an 
agitated voice, and. with a stifled sigh. 

41 Yes,” answered Monte-Cristo, “happily, yes, conscience does 
remain ; and if it did not, how wretched we should be ! After 
every action requiring exertion, it is conscience that save us, for it 
supplies us with a thousand good excuses, of which we alone are 
judges ; and these reasons, how excellent soever in producing 
sleep, would avail us but very little before a tribunal, when we 
were tried for our lives. 

44 Thus was Lady Macbeth served by her conscience, when she 
sought to give her son, and not her husband (whatever Shaks- 
peare may say), a throne. Ah, maternal love is a great virtue, a 
powerful motive — so powerful that it excuses a multitude of things, 
even if, after Duncan’s death, Lady Macbeth had been at all 
pricked by her conscience.” 

Mdme. de Villefort listened with avidity to these appalling 
maxims and horrible paradoxes, delivered by the count with that 
ironical simplicity peculiar to him. After a moment’s silence, the 
lady inquired, 44 Do you know,” she said, 44 that you are a very 
terrible reasoner, and that you look at the world through a some- 
what distempered medium ? Have you really measured the 
world by scrutinies, or through alembics and crucibles ? F or, 
truth to say, you are a great chemist, and the elixir you adminis- 
tered to my son, which recalled him to life almost instantan- 
eously ” 

44 Oh, do not place any reliance on that, madame ; one drop of 
that elixir sufficed to recall life to a dying child, but three drops 
would have impelled the blood into his lungs in such a way as to 
have produced most violent palpitation ; six would have suspended 
his respiration, and caused cyncope more serious than that in 
which he was ; ten would have destroyed him. You know, 
madame, how suddenly I snatched him from those phials which 
he so imprudently touched ?” 

44 Is it, then, so terrible a poison ?” 

44 Oh, no ! In the first place, let us agree that the word poison 
does not exist, because in medicine use is made of the most violent 


THE COUNT OF MONTH C FIS TO. \ | 

poisons, which become, according as they are made use of. most 
salutary remedies.” 

“What, then, is it?” 

A skilful preparation of my friend’s the worthy Abbe Adelmonte, 
who taught me the use of it.” 

“As for me, so nervous, and so subject to fainting-fits, I should 
require a Doctor Adelmonte to invent for me some means of 
breathing freely and tranquillizing my mind, in the fear I have of 
dying some fine day of suffocation. In the meanwhile, as the 
thing is difficult to find in France, and your abbe is not probably 
disposed to make a journey to Paris on my account, I must con- 
tinue to use the anti-spasmodics of M. Planche ; and mint and 
Hoffman’s drops are amongst my favorite remedies.” 

“ But I,” said Monte-Cristo, rising as he spoke — “I am gallant 
enough to offer it you.” 

“Oh, sir! ” 

“Only remember one thing — a small dose is a remedy, a large 
one is poison. One drop will restore life, as you have witnessed; 
five or six will inevitably kill, and in a way the more terrible inas- 
much as, poured into a glass of wine, in would not in the slightest 
degree affect its flavor. But I say no more, madame ; it is really 
as if I were advising you.” The clock struck half-past six, and a 
lady was announced, a friend of Mdme. de Villefort who came to 

dine with her. “ If I had the honor of seeing you for the third 

or fourth time, instead of only for the second,” said Mdme. de 
Villefort ; “ if your friend, instead of only yours under an obliga- 
tion I should insist on detaining you to dinner, and not allow my- 
self to be daunted by a first refusal.” 

“A thousand thanks, madame,” replied Monse-Cristo, “but I 
have an engagement which I cannot break : I have promised to 
escort to the Academie a Greek princess of my acquaintance who 
has never seen your grand opera, and who relies on me to conduct 
her thither.” 

Adieu, then, sir, and do not forget my recipe.” 

***Ah, in truth, madame, to do that I must forget the hour’s con- 
versation I have had with you, which is indeed impossible.” 
Monte-Cristo bowed and left the house. Mdme. de Villefort re- 
mained immersed in thought. “ He is a very strange man,” she 
said, “ and in my opinion is himself the Adelmonte he talks 
about.” As to Monte-Cristo, the result had surpassed his utmost 
expectations. “Good!” said he, as he went away; “ this is a 
fruitful soil, and I feel certain that the seed sown will not be cast 
on barren ground.” Next morning, faithful to bjs promise, he sen* 
the prescription requested. 


TJtfE COlf ATT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


CHAPTER XXXV. 

THE OPERA. 

The pretext of an opera engagement was so much the more 
feasible, as there chanced to be on that very night a more than 
ordinary attraction at the opera. 

The curtain rose, as usual, to an almost empty house, it being 
one of the absurdities of Parisian fashion never to appear at the 
opera until after the commencement of the performances. Finally, 
the door of the state box opened, and Mdme. Danglars, accom- 
panied by her daughter, entered, escorted by Lucien Debray, who 
assiduously conducted them to their seats. 

“Ha, ha ! ” said Chateau-Renaud, “ here come some friends of 
yours, viscount! What are you looking at there ? don’t you see 
they are trying to catch your eye ? ” Albert turned round, just in 
time to receive a gracious wave of the fan from the Baroness ; as 
for Mdlle. Eugenie, she scarcely vouchsafed to waste the glances of 
her black eyes even upon the business of the stage. “ I tell you 
what, my dear fellow,” said Chateau-Renaud, “ I cannot imagine 
what objection you can possibly have to Mdlle. Danglars — that is, 
setting aside her want of ancestry and somewhat inferior rank, 
which, by the way, I don’t think you care very much about. 
Now, barring all that, I mean to say she is a deuced fine girl! ” 

“ Handsome, certainly,” replied Albert, “ but not to my taste, 
which I confess, inclines to a softer, gentler, and more feminine 
style than that possessed by the young lady in question.” 

“Bless my heart!” exclaimed Chateau-Renaud, who, because 
he had seen his thirtieth summer, fancied himself duly warranted 
in assuming a sort of paternal air with his more youthful friend, 
“ you young people are never satisfied : why, what would you 
have more? your parents have chosen you a bride who might 
serve as the living model of Diana, and yet you are not content.” 

“No, for that very resemblance affrights me ; I should have 
liked something more in the manner of the Venus of Milo or 
Capua ; but this Diana, continually surrounded by her nymphs, 
gives me a sort of alarm, lest she should some day entail on me 
the fate of Actaeon.” 

And, indeed, it required but one glance of Mdlle. Danglars to 
comprehend the justness, as well as nature, of Morcerf’s re- 
mark — “she was certainly handsome,” but her beauty was of 
too marked and decided a character to please a fastidious taster 
But that which completed the almost masculine look Mores* 4 


THE COUNT OF MONTE C KIOTO. 


249 


/bund so little to his taste, was a dark mole, of muc_ larger dimen- 
sions than these freaks of nature generally are, placed just at the 
corner of her mouth ; and the effect tended to increase the ex- 
pression of unbending resolution and self-dependence that formed 
the characteristics of her countenance. The rest of Eugenie’s 
person was in perfect keeping with the head just described ; she, 
indeed, reminded you of Diana, as Chateau-Renaud observed, 
but with a more haughty and resolute air. As regarded her attain- 
ments, the only fault to be found with them was the same that a 
fastidious connoisseur might have found with her beauty, that 
they were somewhat too erudite and masculine for so young a 
person. 

The curtain fell almost immediately after the entrance of Mdme. 
Danglars into her box, the band quitted the orchestra for the ac- 
customed half-hour’s interval allowed between the acts, and the 
audience were left at liberty to promenade or pay and receive 
visits in their respective boxes. Morcerf and Chateau-Renaud 
were amongst the first to avail themselves of this permission. For 
an instant the idea struck Mdme. Danglars that this eagerness on 
the part of the young viscount arose from his impatience to join 
her party, and she whispered her expectations to her daughter, 
that Albert was hurrying to pay his respects to them. Eugenie, 
however, merely returned a dissenting movement of the head, 
while, with a cold smile, she directed the attention of her mother 
to an opposite box, situated on the first circle, in which sat the 
Countess Guiccioli, and where Morcerf had just made his ap- 
pearance. 11 So we meet again, my traveling friend, do we?” 
cried the countess, extending her hand to him with all the warmth 
and cordiality of an old acquaintance ; 4 'it was really very good 
of you to recognize me so quickly, and still more so to bestow your 
first visit on me.” 

44 Be assured,” replied Albert, 41 that if I had been aware of 
your arrival in Paris, and had known your address, I should have 
paid my respects to you long ere this. Allow me to introduce my 
friend, Baron de Chateau-Renaud, one of the rare specimens of 
real gentlemen now to be found in France, and from whom I have 
just learned that you were a spectator of the races in the Champ- 
de-Mars, yesterday.” 

44 Well, then,” pursued Madame G , with considerable 

animation, 44 you can probably tell me to whom belonged the 
Winner of the Jockey-Club stakes?” 

44 1 am’ sorry to say I cannot,” replied the baron ; 44 and I was 
just asking the same question of my friend Albert.” 

44 You must know I felt so interested for the splendid roan horse, 
with his elegant little rider, so tastefully dressed in a pink satin 
jacket and cap, that I could not help praying for their success 
with as much earnestness as though the half of my fortune were at 
Stake ; and when I saw them outstrip all the others, and come to 


250 


THE COUNT OF MUJMTE CRTS TO. 


the winning-post in such a gallant style, I actually clapped my 
hands with joy. Imagine my surprise, when, upon returning 
home, the first object I met on the staircase was the identical 
jockey in the pink jacket ! I concluded that, by some singular 
chance, the owner of the winning horse must live in the same 
hotel as myself ; but, lo ! as I entered my apartments I beheld the 
very gold cup awarded as a prize to the unknown horse and rider. 
Inside the cup was a small piece of paper, on which were written 
these words — • From Lord Ruthven to Countess Guiccioli.’ ” 

“ Precisely ; I was sure of it,” said Morcerf, “ the owner of the 
horse was Lord Ruthven, our Lord Ruthven — the Vampire of the 
Argentino! ” 

“ Mercy upon me ! ” exclaimed the countess; “ but what makes 
you so convinced of his being the winner of the Jockey-Club 
prize ? ” 

“Was not the winning horse entered by the name of Vampa, 
the name of the celebrated bandit by whom I was made prisoner ? 
Now I argue from the horse and bandit bearing the same singular 
name, that the count was the person to whom the unknown horse 
belonged.” 

“ But what could have been his motive for sending the cup to 
me?” 

“ In the first place, because I had spoken much of you to him. 
as you may believe ; and in the second, because he delighted to 
see his country-woman take so lively an interest in his success.” 

“ I trust and hope you never repeated to the count all the foolish 
remarks we used to make about him ? ” 

“ I should not like to affirm upon oath that I have not. Besides, 
his presenting you the cup under the name of Lord Ruthven proves 
his knowledge of the comparison instituted between himself and 
that individual.” 

“ And so this singular being is in Paris ? and what effect does he 
produce ? ” 

“Why,” said Albert, “certainly, during the first week of his 
arrival here, he was the great lion of the day ; nothing else was 
thought of or talked about but the wonderful Count of Monte- 
Cristo and his extraordinary actions ; then the coronation of the 
Queen of England took place, followed almost immediately after- 
wards by the robbery of Mdlle. Mars’ diamonds ; and two such in- 
teresting events turned public attention into other channels.” 

“ My good fellew,” said Chateau-Renaud, “ the count happens 
to be so great a favorite of yours, that you treat him as carefully 
and delicately as though he were your best and most intimate 
friend. Do not believe what Albert is telling you, madame ; so 
far from the sensation excited in the Parisian circles by the ap- 
pearance of the Count of Monte-Cristo having abated, I take upon 
myself to declare that it is as strong as ever. His first astounding 
act upon coming amongst us was to present a pair of horses, worth 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


251 


32,600 francs, to Mdme. Danglars ; his second, the almost miracu- 
lous preservation of Mdme. de Villefort’s life ; now it seems that 
he has carried off the prize awarded by the Jockey Club ! I there- 
fore assert and maintain, in despite of whatever Morcerf may ad- 
vance, that not only is the count the object of universal remark, 
interest, and curiosity, at this present moment, but also that he 
will continue to be so while he pleases to exhibit an eccentricity of 
conduct and action which, after all, may be his ordinary mode of 
amusing himself as well as the world.” 

At this moment the bell rang to announce the drawing up of the 
curtain for the second act. 

The young men bowed, and quitted the box. Upon reaching 
their stalls, they found the whole of the audience standing up and 
directing their gaze towards the box formerly possessed by the 
ambassador of Russia. Following the universal example, the 
friends perceived that a gentleman in deep black, had just entered, 
accompanied by a female dressed after the Eastern style ; the lady 
was young and surpassingly beautiful, while the rich magnificence 
of her attire drew all eyes upon her. “By heavens!” said 
Albert, “ it is Monte-Cristo himself, with his fair Greek ! ” 

The strangers were, indeed, no other than the count and 
Haydee. The sensation excited by the beauty and dazzling ap- 
pearance of the latter soon communicated itself to every part of the 
theatre, and even ladies leaned forward from the boxes to admire 
the superb diamonds worn by the young Greek as they played and 
glittered among the cut-glass lustres. The second act passed away 
during one continued buzz of voices — one deep whisper — intimat- 
ing that some great and universally-interesting event had oc- 
curred ; all eyes — all thoughts were occupied with the young and 
beautiful female, whose gorgeous apparel and splendid jewels 
threw an air of insignificance upon all the fair visitants of the 
theatre ; the stage was utterly neglected — all seemed to consider 
the contemplation of so much loveliness far more deserving atten- 
tion. Upon this occasion an unmistakable sign from Mdme. 
Danglars intimated her desire to see Albert in her box directly the 
curtain fell on the second act, and neither the politeness nor good 
taste of Morcerf would permit his neglecting an invitation so un- 
equivocally given. At the close of the act he therefore proceeded 
to the baroness’s box. Having bowed to the two ladies, he ex- 
tended his hand to Debray. By the baroness he was most gra- 
ciously welcomed, while Eugenie received him with her accustomed 
coldness. 

“ My dear fellow ! ” said Debray, “ you have just come in the 
very nick of time to help a fellow-creature regularly beaten and at 
a standstill. There is madame overwhelming me with questions 
respecting the count ; she insists upon it that I can tell her his 
birth, education, and parentage, where he came from, and whither 
he is going. Being no conjuror, I was whojly unable to do this ; 


2$2 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


so, by way of getting out of the scrape, I said, • Ask Morcerf ; ho 
has got the whole history of his beloved Monte-Cristo at his 
fingers’ ends whereupon the baroness made you a sign to come 
hither, and now I leave the solution of her questions in your 
hands ; for my own part, I care nothing about the count or his 
mysterious doings.” 

" I am very sure no nabob of our time would have sent me a 
pair of horses worth 32,000 francs, wearing on their heads four 
diamonds at 5,000 francs each.” 

“ He seems to have a mania for diamonds,” said Morcerf, 
smiling ; “ and I verily believe that, like Potemkin, he keeps his 
pockets filled, for the sake of strewing them along the road, as 
Hop o’ my Thumb did his pebbles.” 

“ Perhaps he has discovered some mine,” said Mdme. Danglars. 
41 1 suppose you know he has an order for unlimited credit on the 
baron’s banking establishment ? ” 

“I was not aware of it,” replied Albert, “ but I can readily be- 
lieve it.” 

‘‘And, further, that he stated to M. Danglars his intention of 
only staying a year in Paris, during which time he proposed to 
spend six millions. He must be the Shah of Persia, traveling 
incog." 

“ Have you remarked the extreme beauty of that young female 
by whom he is accompanied, M. Lucien? ” inquired Eugenie. 

“Who is this young person, M, Morcerf?” inquired Eugenie ; 
“ does anybody know ? ” 

“Allow me to state,” said Albert, “that I can give you very 
tolerable information on that subject, as well as on most points reb 
ative to the singular person of whom we are now conversings 
the young female is a Greek. I know one thing more, namely*, 
that she is a musician, for one day that I chanced to be breakfast* 
ing with the count, I heard the sound of a guzla — it is impossibl® 
it could have been touched by any other finger than her own.” 

“ I must try and persuade M. Danglars to invite him to a bailor 
dinner, or something of the sort, that he may be compelled to ask 

us in return.” “What!” said Debray, laughing ; “do you 

know this mysterious count is a bachelor ? ” 

‘ You have ample proof to the contrary, if you look opposite,” 
said the baroness, as she laughingly pointed to the beautiful 
Greek. 

“ No, no ! ” exclaimed Debray ; “that is not his wife, he told us 
himself she was his slave ; do you not recollect, Morcerf, his tell- 
ing us so at your breakfast ? ” 

“ Well, then,” said the baroness, “ if slave she be, she has all 
the air and manner of a princess.” 

“ Of the Arabian Nights ?” 

“ If you like ; but tell me, my good Lucien, what is it that con- 
stitutes a princess? gold, silver, and jewels? and our Greek beauty 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 253 

there is one blaze of diamonds; I doubt if any queen’s could 
equal them.” 

“To me she seems overloaded,” observed Eugenie; “she 
would look far better if she wore fewer, and we should then be 
able to see her finely-formed throat and wrists.” 

“ See, how the artist peeps out ! ” exclaimed Mdme. Danglars ; 
“My poor Eugenie, you must conceal your passion for the fine, 
arts/’ 

“I admire all that is beautiful in art or nature/ ’ returned the 
young lady. 

“ What do you think of the count ? ” inquired Debray ; “ he is 
not much amiss, according to my ideas of good looks.” 

“ The count ? ” repeated Eugenie, as though it had not occurred 
to her to observe him sooner ; “ the count? oh ! — he is so dread- 
fully pale.” 

“ 1 quite agree with you,” said Morcerf ; “ and it is in that very 
paleness that consists the secret we want to find out. The Countess 
Guiccioli insists upon it he is a vampire.” 

“ Is that she, mamma ? ” asked Eugenie ; “ almost opposite to us 
With that profusion of beautiful light hair ? M 

“ Yes, yes, there she is ! ” cried Mdme. Danglers ; “ you should 

go and bring your Count of Monte-Cristo to us.” “What for?” 

asked Eugenie. 

“ Strange girl ! ” murmured the baroness. 

“Adieu ! I sacrifice myself, remember that,” said Albert, as he 
made his parting bow. Just as he was passing the count’s box, 
the door opened, and Monte-Cristo came forth. After giving some 
directions to Ali, who stood in the lobby, the count observed 
Albert, and, taking his arm, walked onwards with him. Carefully 
dosing the box-door, Ali placed himself before it, while a crowd 
Of wondering spectators assembled round the unconscious Nubian. 

“ Upon my word, you are at this moment the most celebrated 
and fashionable person in Paris.” 

“Really? and what has procured me so flattering a distinc- 
tion ? ’ * 

“What? why, yourself, to be sure! You give away horses, 
worth thousands ; you save the lives of ladies of high rank and 
beauty ; you send thoroughbreds to contest the prize of the Jockey 
Club, the horses being rode by boys not larger than marmots ; 
then, when you have carried off the golden trophy of victory, in- 
stead of setting any value on it, you give it to the first handsome 
woman you think of ! ” 

“ And who has filled your head with all this nonsense? ” 

“ Why, in the first place, I heard it from Mdme. Danglars, who, 
by the by, is dying to see you in her box, or to have you seen 
there by others ; secondly, I learned it from Beauchamp’s journal ; 
and thirdly, from my own imagination. Why, if you sought con- 
cealment, chd you call your horse Vampa ? l’nat was an 


254 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


oversight, certainly,’* replied the count; 11 but tell me, does thr 
Count de Morcerf never visit the Opera ? 1 have been looking 

for him, but without success.” 

" He will be here to-night.” “ In what part of the house ? ” 

— " In the baroness’s box, I believe.” “ Is the charming young 

female with her — her daughter?” “Yes.” " Indeed ! then 

I congratulate you.” Morcerf smiled. " We will discuss that sub- 
ject at length some future time, ” said he. " But what think you 
of the music ? ” 

" Your orchestra is rather too noisy.” 

" Let me recommend you, my dear viscount, to come and sup 
with me whenever you wish to be regaled with music really worth 
listening to.” " I have already enjoyed that treat when break- 

fasting with you,” said Morcerf. 

"Ah, then, I suppose you heard Haydee’s guzla ; the poor exile 
frequently beguiles a weary hour in playing over to me the airs of 
her native land.” Morcerf did not pursue the subject, and Monte- 
Cristo himself fell into a silent reverie. The bell rang at this 
moment for the rising of the curtain. 

The third act had now commenced ; and during its progress the 
Count de Morcerf, made his appearance in the box of Mdme. 
Danglars. Morcerf was not one of those persons whose aspect 
would create either interest or curiosity in a place of public amuse- 
ment ; his presence, therefore, was wholly unnoticed, save by the 
occupants of the box in which he had just seated himself. The 
quick eye of Monte-Cristo, however, marked his coming ; and a 
slight though meaning smile passed over his lips as he did so. 
Haydee, whose soul seemed centred in the business of the stage, 
like all unsophisticated natures, delighted in whatever addressed 
itself to the eye or ear. 

The third act passed off as usual, after which the curtain again 
fell, and the spectators poured forth from the theatre into the 
lobbies and salon. The count also, quitting his, proceeded at 
once to the box of Mdme. Danglars, who could scarcely restrain a 
cry of mingled pleasure and surprise. "Welcome, Count, ’’ ex- 
claimed she, as he entered. “ I have been most anxious to see 
you, that I might repeat verbally those thanks writing can so ill 
express.” 

"Surely so trifling a circumstance cannot deserve a place in 
your remembrance. Believe me, madame, I had entirely forgot- 
ten it ! ” 

" But it is not so easy to forget, my lord, that the very day fol- 
lowing the one in which you kindly prevented my disappointment 
respecting the horses, you saved the life of my dear friend, Mdme. 
de Villefort, which I had placed in danger by lending her the very 
animals your generosity restored to me.” 

" This time, at least, I cannot accept of your flattering acknowl- 
edgments* In the latter affair you owe me nothing. Ali, my 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


255 


Nubian slave, was the fortunate individual who enjoyed the 
privilege of rendering to your friend the trifling assistance you ah 
[ude to.” 

“ Was it Ali,” asked Morcerf, 44 who rescued my son from the 
hands of bandits ? ” 

14 No, my lord,” replied Monte-Cristo, pressing with friendly 
warmth the hand held out to him by the general ; “ in this in- 
stance I may fairly and freely accept your thanks ; but you have 
already tendered them, and fully discharged your debt — if, in- 
deed, there existed one — and I feel almost mortified to find you 
still revert to the the trifling aid I was able to render your son. 

— May l beg of you, Baroness, to honor me with an introduction 

to your charming daughter? ” 

“Oh! you are no stranger — at least not by name,” replied 
Mdme. Danglars, 44 and the last two or three days we have really 
talked of nothing else but yourself. Eugenie,” continued the 
baroness, turning toward her daughter, “ Count Monte-Cristo.” 
The count bowed, while Mdlle. Danglars returned a slight bow. 
44 You have a charming young person with you to-night, Count,” 
said Eugenie. “ Your daughter, I resume ? ” 

“No, indeed,” said Monte-Cristo, astonished at the coolness 
and freedom. “The female you allude to is a poor unfortunate 
Greek left under my care.” 

44 And what is her name ? ” 

44 Hayefee,’ replied Monte-Cristo. 

44 A Greek?” murmured Morcerf. 

44 Yes, indeed, count,” said Mdme. Danglars ; 44 and tell me, 
did you ever see at the court of Ali Tebelin, whom you so glor- 
iously and valiantly served, a more exquisite beauty or richer cos, 
tume than is displayed in the fair Greek before us? ” 

“Did I hear rightly, my lord,” said Monte-Cristo, 44 that you 

served at Janina r ” 44 I was inspector-general of the pasha’s 

troops,” replied Morcerf ; 44 and I seek not to conceal that I owe 
my fortune, such as it is, to the liberality of the illustrious Albanese 
chief.” 

“ But look! pray look,” exclaimed Mdme. Danglars. 

44 Where ? ” stammered out Morcerf. 

44 There, there!” said Monte-Cristo, as, wrapping his arm 
around the count, he leaned with him over the front of the box, 
just as Haydee, whose eyes were occupied in examining the 
theatre in search of the count, perceived his pale marble features 
close to the countenance of Morcerf, whom he was holdings 
This sight produced on the astonished girl an effect similar to that 
of the head of Medusa. She bent forward as though to assure 
herseif of the reality of what she beheld, then uttering faint a cry, 
threw herself back in her seat. The scream that burst from the 
agitated Greek quickly reached the ear of the watchful Ali, wha 
instantly opened the box-door to ascertain the cause. “Bless 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


256 

me l ” exclaimed Eugenie, 44 whav has happened to your ward, 
count? she seems taken suddenly ill ! 

41 Very probably!” answered the count. “But do not be 
alarmed on her account! Haydee’ s nervous system is delicately 
organized, and she is peculiarly susceptible of the odors even 
(of flowers — nay, there are some which cause her to faint if brought 
into her presence. However,” continued Monte-Cristo, drawing 
a small phial from his pocket, “ I have an infallible remedy for 
such attacks.” So saying, he bowed to the baroness and her 
daughter, exchanged a parting shake of the hand with Debray 
and the count, and quitted for the box. Upon his return to 
Haydee, he found her extremely pale and much agitated. Directly 
she saw him she seized his hand, while the icy coldness of her 
own made Monte-Cristo start. 

44 With whom was my lord conversing a few minutes since? ” 
asked she, in a trembling voice. 

“With the Count of Morcerf,” answered Monte-Cristo. “ He 
tells me he served your illustrious father, to whom he owes his 
fortune ! 

44 Base, cowardly traitor that he is! ” exclaimed Haydee, her 
eyes flashing with rage ; “ he it was who sold my beloved parent 
to the Turks, and the fortune he boasts of was the price of his 
treachery ! Knowest thou not that, my dear lord ? ” 

41 Something of this I heard in Epirus,” said Monte-Cristo; 
44 but the particulars are still unknown to ms. You shall relate 
them to me, my child. They are, no doubt, both curious and in- 
teresting.” 

44 Yes, yes ! but let us go hence, I beseech you. I feel as 
though it would kill me to remain longer near that dreadful 
man.” So saying, Haydee arose, and wrapping herself in her 
white cashmere opera-cloak embroidered with pearls and coral, 
she hastily quitted the box at the moment when the curtain was 
rising upon the fourth act. 

44 Do you observe,” said the Countess to Albert, who had re- 
turned to her side, 44 that man does nothing like other people ; he 
listens most devoutly to the third act of Robert \ and when the 
fo»nh begins, makes a precipitate retreat.” 


CHAPTER XXXVI. 

THE RISE AND FALL OF THE STOCKS. 

Some days after this meeting, Albert visited Monte-Cristo at 
his house, which had already assumed the palace-like appearance 
which the count’s princely fortune enabled him to give event® 
his most temporary residences. He came to renew the thanks of 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


2 $; 


Itfdme. Danglars which had been already conveyed to the count 
through the medium of a letter. Albert was accompanied by 
Lucien Debray, who, joining in his friend’s conversation, added 
some passing compliments, the source of which the count's talent 
easily enabled him to guess. He was convinced that Lucien’s 
sdsit to him was to be attributed to a double feeling of curiosity, 
the larger half of which sentiment emanated from the Rue de la 
Chaussee d’Antin. In short, Mdme. Danglars, not being able 
personally to examine in detail the domestic economy and house- 
hold arrangements of a man who gave away horses worth 30,- 
000 francs, and who went to the opera with a Greek slave wear- 
ing diamonds to the amount of a million of money, had deputed 
those eyes, by which she was accustomed to see, to give her a 
faithful account of the mode of life of this incomprehensible in- 
dividual. But the count did not appear to suspect there could 
be the slightest connection between Lucien’s visit and the 
baronne's curiosity. 

"You are in constant communication, then, with the Baron 
Danglars ? ” inquired the count of Albert de Morcerf. 

" Yes, count, you know what I told you ? ” 

“All remains the same, then, in that quarter ?** "It is 

more than ever a settled thing,” said Lucien : and, considering 
this remark was all that he was at that time called upon to make, 
he adjusted the glass to his eye, and biting the top of his gold- 
headed cane, began to make the tour of the apartment, examining 
the arms and the pictures. 

" Ah ! ” said Monte-Cristo, " I did not expect the affair would 
have been so promptly concluded.” 

"Oh, things take their course without our assistance. My 
father and Danglars served together in Spain, my father in the 
army and Danglars in the commissariat department. It was 
there that my father, ruined by the revolution, and M. Danglars, 
who never had possessed any patrimony, both laid the foundations 

of their different fortunes.” " Mdlle. Danglars is too rich for 

me,” replied Morcerf, " and that frightens me.” 

" Bah ! ” exclaimed Monte-Cristo, "everything does not depend 
on wealth, and it is a fine thing to have a good name, and to occupy 
a high station in society. Your name is celebrated, your position 
magnificent ; and then the Count of Morcerf is a soldier, and it is 
pleasing to see the integrity of a Bayard united to the poverty of 
a Duguesclin : disinterestedness is the brightest ray in which a 
noble sword can shine. As for me, I consider the union a most 
suitable one; she will enrich you, and you will ennoble her.” 
Albert shook his head, aud looked thoughtful. " There is still 
something else,” said he. 

" My mother’s is the dissenting voice ; she has a clear and 
penetrating judgment, and does not smile on the proposed union* 

*7 


258 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


I cannot account for it, but she seems to entertain some prejudice 
against the Danglars.” 

“ Then do not marry her,” said the count. 

«• Well, I shall see. I will try and think over what is the best 
thing to be done ; you will give me your advice, will you not ? 
and if possible extricate me from my unpleasant position? I 
think, rather than give pain to' my excellent mother, I would run 
the risk of offending the count,” Monte-Cristo turned away ; he 
seemed moved by this last remark. “ Ah ! ” said he to Debray, 
who had thrown himself into an easy-chair at the farthest ex- 
tremity of the salon, and who held a pencil in his right hand and 
an account book in his left, “ what are you doing there? making 
a sketch ? ’ * 

“ No, no ! I am doing something of a very opposite nature to 
painting. I am calculating — by the way, Morcerf, this indirectly 
concerns you — I am calculating what the house of Danglars 
must have gained by the last rise in Haiti stock ; from 206 they 
have risen to 409 in three days, and the prudent banker had pur- 
chased at 206, therefore he must have made 300,000 francs.” 
“That is not his best stroke of policy,” said Morcerf; “did 
he not gain a million from the Spaniards this last year? ” 

“My dear fellow,” said Lucien, “ M. Danglars sold yesterday 
at 405, and pockets 300,000 francs. Had he but waited till to- 
day, the stocks would have fallen to 205, and instead of gaining 
300,000 francs, he would have lost 20 or 25,000.” 

“ And what has caused the sudden fall from 409 to 206 ? ” asked 
Monte-Cristo. “ I am profoundly ignorant of all these stock-job- 
bing intrigues.” " Because,” said Albert, laughing, one piece 

of news follows another, and there is often great dissimilarity be- 
tween them.” 

“ Ah,” said the count, “ I see that M. Danglars is accustomed 
to play at gaining or losing 300,000 francs in a day ; he must be 

enormously rich?” “It is not he who plays,” exclaimed 

Lucien, “ it is Mdme. Danglars : she is indeed daring,” 

“ But you who are a reasonable being, Lucien, and who know 
how little dependence is to be placed on the news, since you are 
at the fountain-head, surely you ought to prevent it,” said Mor- 
cerf, with a smile. Your position as secretary to the ministry ren- 
ders your authority great on the subject of political news ; you 
never open your mouth but the stockbrokers immediately steno- 
graph your words. Cause her to lose 2 or 300,000 francs in a 
short space of time, and that would teach her prudence.” 

Lucien half smiled. Monte-Cristo, although apparently indif« 
ferent, had not lost one word of this conversation, and his pene- 
trating eye had even read a hidden secret in the embarrassed 
manner of the secretary. This embarrassment had completely 
escaped Albert, but it caused Lucien to shorten his visit ; he was 
evidently ill at ease. The count, in taking leave of him, said 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


2 $£ 


something in a low voice, to which he answered, 44 Willingly, 
Count ; I accept your proposal.” The count returned to young 
Morcerf. 

44 Do you not think, on reflection,” said he to him, “that you 
have done wrong in thus speaking of your mother-in-law in the 

presence of M. Debray ? ” “ Count,” said Morcerf, “ I beg of 

you not to apply that title so prematurely.” 

“ Now, speaking without any exaggeration, is your mother really 

so very much averse to this marriage?” “So much so that 

the baronne very rarely comes to the house, and my mother has 
not, I think, visited Mdme. Danglars twice in her whole life.” 

“ Then,” said the count, “ I am emboldened to speak openly to 
you. I have thought of inviting the Danglars, and Villeforts to my 
country-house at Auteuil. If I were to invite you and the Count 
and Countess of Morcerf to this dinner, it would give it the air of 
a matrimonial rendezvous, or at least Mdme de Morcerf would 
look upon the affair in that light, especially if Baron Danglars did 
me the honor to bring his daughter. In that case your mother 
would hold me in aversion, and I do not at all wish that ; on the 
contrary, I desire to occupy a prominent place in her esteem.” 

“ Indeed, count,” said Morcerf, 41 I will immediately call on M. 
Danglars, and tell him that my mother and myself leave Paris to- 
morrow. I have not seen you, consequently I know nothing of 
your dinner.*’ 

“ How foolish you are ! Have you forgotten that M. Debray 
has just seen you at my house ? ” 

44 Ah, true ! ” 

44 On the contrary, I have seen you, and invited you without any 
ceremony, when you instantly answered that it would be impossi- 
ble for you to be amongst the number of my guests, as you were 

going to Treport.” 44 Well, then, that is settled ; but you will 

come and call on my mother before to-morrow ? ” 

• 4 Before to-morrow ? — that will be a difficult matter to arrange ; 
besides, I shall just be in the way of all the preparations for de- 
parture.” 

“ You were only a charming man before, but, if you accede to 
my proposal, you will be adorable.” 

44 What must I do to attain such a height ? ’’ 44 You are to- 

day free as air — come and dine with me ; we shall be a small 
party — only yourself, my mother and I. You have scarcely seen 
my mother, you shall have an opportunity of observing her more 
closely. .She is a remarkable woman, and I only regret that there 
does not exist another who resembles her about twenty years 
younger ; in that case, I assure you, there would very soon be a 
countess and viscountess de Morcerf. As to my father, you will 
not see hin* ; he is officially engaged, and dines with M. le Grand 
Referendaire. We will talk over our travels ; and you, who have 
*een the whole world, will relate your adventures — you shall tell 


26 o 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


us the history of the beautiful Greek who was with you thi oth#f 
night at the Opera, and whom you call your slave, and yet treat 
like a princess. We will talk Italian and Spanish. Come, accept 
my invitation, and my mother will thank you.” 

" A thousand thanks,” said the count, “ your invitation is most 
gracious, and I regret exceedingly that it is not in my power to ac- 
cept it. I am not so much at liberty as you suppose ; on the con- 
trary, I have a most important engagement.” 

«« Humph ! ” said Morcerf, “ this is the second time you have 
refused to dine with my mother ; it is evident you wish to avoid 
her.” Monte-Cristo started. “ Oh, you do not mean that,” said 
he ; “ besides, here comes the confirmation of my assertion.” 

** Baptistin, what did I tell you this morning when I called you ?” 

To close the door against visitors as soon as the clock struck 

five,” replied the valet. “Then to admit no one except Major 
Bartolomeo Cavalcanti and his son.” 

“You hear; Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti ; a man who ranks 
amongst the most ancient nobility of Italy. Then there is his son, 
a charming young man, about your own age, viscount, bearing 
the same title as yourself, and who is making his entree into Par* 
isian society, aided by his father’s millions. The major will bring 
his son with him this evening ; he confides him to my care. He 
is a perfect nobleman, very polite, modest, and agreeable, such as 
may be found constantly in Italy, descendants of very ancient 
families. I have met him several times, and he has now commun- 
icated to me the fact of his arrival. The acquaintances one makes 
in traveling have a claim : they everywhere expect to receive the 
same attention which you once paid them by chance. Our good 
Major Cavalcanti comes to take a second view of Paris, which he 
only saw in passing through in the time of the Empire, when he 
was on his way to Moscow. I shall give him a good dinner : he 
will confide his son to my care ; I will promise to watch over him ; 
let him follow whatever path his folly may lead him, and then I 
shall have done my part.” 

“ Certainly ; I see you are a precious Mentor/' said Albert* 
u Good-bye, we shall return on Sunday/’ 


CHAPTER XXXVII. 

THE TWO CAVALCANTIS. 

Both the count and Baptistin had told the truth when they an- 
nounced to Morcerf the proposed visit of the major, which had 
served Monte-Cristo as a pretext for declining the invitation which 
he had received from Albert. Seven o’clock had just struck, and 
Bertuccio, according to the command which had been given him. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


261 


had two hours before left for Auteuil, wheii a hack stopped at the 
door, and after depositing its occupant, immediately hurried away, 
as if ashamed of its employment. The individual who alighted 
from the vehicle was about fifty-two years of age, dressed in pic- 
turesque costume the person who rang at the gate, and demanded 
if it was not where the Count of Monte-Cristo inhabited, and who 
being answered by the porter in the affirmative, entered, closed 
the gate after him, and began to ascend the steps of the house. 

The small and angular head of the individual in question, his 
white hair and thick grey moustache, caused him to be easily rec- 
ognized by Baptistin, who had received an exact description, and 
was awaiting him in the hall. Therefore, scarcely had the 
stranger time to pronounce his name before the count was apprised 
of his arrival. He was ushered into a simple and elegant room, 
and the count rose to meet him with a smiling air. 

“Ah, my dear sir, you are most welcome; I was told that I 
should see you to-day at seven o'clock.” 

“ Ah, so much the better ; I feared this little precaution might 
have been forgotten, of informing you beforehand of my com- 
ing.” 

“ I will prove it to you beyond a doubt." 

“ Oh, no, never mind that,” said the Italian ; “it is not worth 
the trouble.” 

“Let me see,” said the count ; “ are you not the Marquis Bar- 
tolomeo Cavalcanti, ex-major in the Austrian service ? ” 

“ Was I a major?” timidly asked the old soldier. “Yes,” 

said Monte-Cristo, “ you were a major ; that is the title the French 
give to the post which you filled in Italy. Your visit here to-day 
is not of your own suggestion, is it?” said Monte-Cristo. “ You 
were sent by the excellent Abbe Busoni ? ” 

“ Exactly so,” said the delighted major, *» whose letter I have.” 
“ Give it me then ; ” and Monte-Cristo took the letter, which he 
opened and read. The major looked at the count with large star- 
ing eyes, and then tobk a survey of the apartment, but his gaze 
almost immediately reverted to the proprietor. “ Yes, yes, I see. 
4 Major Cavalcanti, a worthy patrician of Lucca, a descendant of 
the Cavalcanti, of Florence,’ * continued Monte-Cristo, reading 
aloud, “ 1 possessing an income of half a million.’ ” Monte-Cristo 
raised his eyes from the paper, and bowed. “ Half a million,” 
said he, “ magnificent ! it must be so, for the abbe knows correctly 
the amount of all the largest fortunes in Europe.” 

“ Be it half a million, then ; but on my word of honor, I had no 

idea that it was so much.” “ Because you are robbed by your 

steward. You must make some reformation in that quarter.” 

“ You have opened my eyes,” said the Italian, gravely ; “ 1 will 
show the gentleman the door.” 

Monte-Cristo resumed the perusal of the letter: — “'And who 
only needs one thing more to make him happy ; to recover a lost 


262 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


and adored son, stolen away in his infancy, either by an enemy of 
his noble family or by the gipsies.’ ” 

44 At the age of five ! ” said the major with a deep sigh, and rais- 
ing his eyes to heaven. * 

44 Unhappy father! ” said Monte-Cristo, continuing: 

44 4 I have given him renewed life and hope, in the assurance 
that you have the power of restoring the son whom he has vainly 
sought for fifteen years.’ ” The major looked at the count with an 
indescribable expression of anxiety. 44 I have the power of so do- 
ing,” said Monte-Cristo. 

The major recovered his self-possession. 44 Ah ! ah ! ” said he, 

“ the letter was true then to the end ? ” 

44 Ah ! true ! ” said Monte-Cristo, 44 there is a postscript.*’ 

4 44 In order to save Major Cavalcanti the trouble of drawing on 
his banker, I send him a draft for 2,000 francs to defray his travel- 
ing expenses, and credit on you for the further sum of 48,000, 
which you still owe me.” * The major awaited the conclusion of 
the postscript, apparently with great anxiety. 

44 Then the postscript is as favorably received by you as the rest 
of the letter? ” 

44 Certainly ; the Abbe Busoni and myself have a small account 
open between us. I do not remember if it is exactly 48,000 francs, 
which I am still owing him ; but I dare say we shall not dispute 
the difference. You attached great importance, then, to this post- 
script, my dear M. Cavalcanti?” 

44 1 must explain to you,” said the major, 44 that, fully confiding 
in the signature of Father Busoni, I had not provided myself with 
any other funds ; so that if this resource had failed me, I should 
have found myself very unpleasantly situated.” 

44 Is it possible that a man of your stamp should be embarrassed 
anywhere?” said Monte-Cristo. 

44 Why, really I know no one,” said the major. 

44 But then you yourself are known to others ? ” 

“ Yes, I am known; but you will remit to me these 48,000 
francs? ” 

44 Certainly, at your first request.” The major’s eyes dilated 
with pleasing astonishment. 44 But sit down,” said Monte-Cristo. 
The major drew an arm-chair toward him, and proceeded to seat 
himself. 

44 Now,” said the count, 44 what will you take — a glass of port, 
sherry, or Alicant ? ” 

44 Alicant, if you please ; it is my favorite wine.” 

Monte-Cristo rang ; Baptistin appeared. The count advanced 
to meet him. 44 Well ? ” said he, in a low voice. 

44 The young man is here,” said the valet, in the same tone. 44 In 
the blue drawing-room, according to your excellency’s orders.” 

44 That’s right ; now bring Alicant and wine wafers.’* 

Baptistin left the room, and re-entered with glasses, wine, and 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 263 

crackers. The count filled one glass, but in the other he only 
poured a few drops of the ruby-colored liquid. The bottle was 
covered with webs, and all the other signs which indicate the age 
of wine more truly than do wrinkles on a man. The major made 
a wise choice ; he took the full glass and a wafer. 

"So, sir, you inhabited Lucca, did you ? You were rich, noble, 
held in great esteem — had all that could render a man happy? M 
"All,” said the major, hastily swallowing, "positively alL M 
" And yet there was one thing wanting in order to complete 
your happiness? your lost child ! ” 

" Ay,” said the major, taking a second biscuit, " that consum- 
mation of my happiness was indeed wanting.” The worthy major 
raised his eyes to heaven and sighed. 

" Let me hear, then,” said the count, " who this deeply-regret- 
ted son was ; for I always understood you were a bachelor. A 
youthful indiscretion, I suppose, which you were anxious to con- 
ceal from the world at large ? ” 

The major recovered himself, and resumed his usual calm man- 
ner, at the same time casting his eyes down, either to give himself 
time to compose his countenance, or to assist his imagination, all 
the while giving an under-look at the count, the protracted smile 
on whose lips still announced the same polite curiosity. " Yes,” 
said the major, "I did wish this fault to be hidden from every eye.” 
"Not on your own account, surely,” replied Monte-Cristo ; 
" for a man is above all these things ? ” 

" Oh, no, certainly not on my own account/* said the major, 
with a smile and a shake of the head. 

" But for the sake of the mother? ” said the count. 

" Yes, for the mother’s sake — his poor mother ! M cried the 
major, trying to moisten his eye with a tear. 

" She belonged to one of the first families in Italy, I think, did 
she not ? ’ ’ 

" She was of a noble family of Fiesole.” 

" And her name was Oliva Corsinari, was it not ? A marchion- 
ess, whom you married at last, notwithstanding the opposition of 
her family ? ’ ’ 

" Yes, I did so.” 

“ And you have doubtless brought all your papers with you? ’* 
said Monte-Cristo. " The certificate of your marriage with Oliva 
Corsinari, and the register of your child’s birth, that is of Andrea 
Cavalcanti — your son ; is not his name Andrea ? ” 

" I believe so,” said the major. " I dare not positively assert it, 
is he has been lost for so long a time/* 

" Still,” said Monte-Cristo, "you have all the documents with 
you?” 

“ I regret to say that, not knowing it was necessary to come 
provided with these papers, I neglected to bring them with me.” 
u That is unfortunate,” returned Monte-Cristo. "They were 


264 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


indispensable ; Supposing there were to be doubts raised as to the 
validity of your marriage or the legitimacy of yoiir child? It 
would be fatal to his interests.’ ’ 

“ It might cause him to fail in some desirable matrimonial spec- 
ulation.” 

“ O peccato!" 

“You must know that in France they are very particular on 
these points ; it is not sufficient, as in Italy, to go to the priest and 
say, * We love each other, and want you to marry us.’ Marriage 
is a civil affair in France, and in order to marry in an orthodox 
manner you must have papers which undeniably establish your 
identity.” 

“ That is the misfortune ! I have not these necessary papers.” 
“ Fortunately, I have them, though,” said Monte-Cristo. 

“Ah, indeed! ” said the major, who, seeing the object of his 

{ 'ourney frustrated by the absence of the papers, feared also that 
lis forgetfulness might give rise to some difficulty concerning the 
cash, — “ that is a fortunate circumstance ; really lucky, for it 
never occurred to me to bring them.” 

“ I do not at all wonder at it — one cannot think of everything ; 
but, happily, the Abbe Busoni thought for you.” 

“ He is an admirable man,” said the major ; “and sent them to 
you? ” 

“ Here they are.” 

The major clasped his hands in token of admiration. “You 
married Oliva Corsinari in the church of San Paolo del Monte- 
Cattini ; here is the priest’s certificate.” 

“Yes, indeed, there it is truly,” said the Italian, looking ©n 
with astonishment. 

“ And here is Andrea Cavalcanti’s baptismal register, given by 
the cure of Saravezza. Take *hese documents, then ; they do not 
concern me. You will give them to your son, who will, of course, 
take great care of them.” 

“ I should think so, indeed! ” 

“ I am very glad you understand the value of these papers.” 

“ I regard them as invaluable.” 

“Now,” said Monte-Cristo, “as to the mother of the young 
man, has she not been dead these ten years ? ” 

“ I am still mourning her loss ! ” exclaimed the major, drawing 
from his pocket a checked handerchief, and alternately wiping first 
the right and then the left eye. 

“What would you?” said Monte-Cristo; “we are all mortal. 
Now, you 'understand, my dear M. Cavalcanti, that it is useless 
for you to tell people in France that you have been separated from 
your son for fifteen years. Stories of gipsies, who steal children, 
are not at all in vogue in this part, and would not be believed. 
You sent him for his education to a college in the provinces, and 
now you wish him to complete his education in the Parisian world. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


26S 


That induced you to leave Via Reggio, where you have lived 
since the death of your wife. If they should hear of the separa- 
tion — — 

“Ah, yes; what could I say?" 

“That an unfaithful tutor, bought over by the enemies of your 
family ” 

“ By the Corsinari? ” 

“ Precisely. Had stolen away this child, in order that your 
name might become extinct." 

“ That will do well, since he is an only son." 

•« Well, now that all is arranged, do not let these newly -awak- 
ened remembrances be forgotten. You have, douotless, already 
guessed th&amp;t I was preparing a surprise for you ? " “An agree- 

able one ? " asked the Italian. 

“ Ah, I see the eye of a father is no more to be deceived than 
his heart." 

“Hum!" said the major. 

“ Some one has told you the secret ; or, perhaps, you guessed 
that he was here." 

“ That who was here? " 

“ Your child — your son — your Andrea ! " “ I did guess it," 

replied the major, with the greatest coolness possible. “ Then he 
is here ? " 

“ He is," said Monte-Cristo ; “ when the valet came in just 
now, he told me of his arrival. I understand all your emotion ; 
you must have time to recover yourself. I will, in the meantime, 
go and prepare the young man for this much-desired interview, for 
I presume that he is not less impatient for it than yourself." 

“ I should quite imagine that to be the case,” said Cavalcanti. 

“ Your interview will be private. But do not be uneasy ; even 
if the powerful voice of nature should be silent, you cannot well 
mistake him ; he will enter by this door. He is a fine young man, 
of fair complexion — a little too fair, perhaps — pleasing manners ; 
but you will see and judge for yourself." 

“By the way,’’ said the major, “you know I have only the 
2,000 francs which Abbe Busoni sent me ; this sum I have ex- 
pended upon traveling expenses, and " 

“And you want money ; that is a matter of course, my dear 
M. Cavalcanti. Well, here are 8,000 francs on account." 

The major’s eyes sparkled brilliantly. 

“ It is 40,000 francs which I now owe you," said Monte-Cristo. 

“ Does your excellency wish for a receipt ? " said the major, at 
the same time slipping the money into the inner pocket of his coat. 
“To show the Abbe Busoni." 

“ Well, when you receive the remaining 40,000 you can give me 
a receipt in full. Between gentlemen such excessive precaution 
is, I think, quite unnecessary." 

” Yes, so it is, between noblemen." 


2 66 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO , , 


“ You will permit me to make one remark : I should advise you 
to leave off wearing that flashy dress.” 

44 Indeed! ” said the major, regarding himself with an air of 
complete satisfaction. 

44 Yes. It may be worn at Via Reggio ; but that costume, how- 
ever elegant in itself, has long been out of fashion in Paris.” 

41 But what shall I wear ? ” 

44 What you find in your trnnks.” 

44 In my trunks? I have but one portmanteau.” 

44 1 dare say you have nothing else with you. What is the use 
of boring one’s self with so many things ? Besides, an old soldier 
always likes to march with as little baggage as possible.” 

44 That is just the case — precisely so ! ” 

44 But you are a man of foresight and prudence, therefore you 
sent your luggage on before you. It has arrived at the Princes 
Hotel, Richelieu Street, where you are to take up your quar- 
ters.” 

44 Then, in these trunks ” 

44 1 presume you have given orders to your valet-de-chambre 
to put in all you are likely to need, — your plain clothes and your 
uniform. On grand occasions you must wear your uniform ; that 
will look very well. Do not forget your crosses. They still laugh 
at them in France, and yet always wear them, for all that.” 

44 Very well ! very well! ” said the major, who was in ecstasy at 
the attention paid him by the count. 

44 Now,” said Monte-Cristo, 44 that you have fortified yourself 
against all painful excitement, prepare yourself, my dear M. Cav- 
alcanti, to meet your lost Andrea.” Saying which Monte-Cristo 
bowed, and disappeared behind the tapestry, leaving the major 
fascinated beyond expression with the delightful reception. Monte- 
Cristo entered the blue drawing-room, and found there a young 
man, of graceful demeanor and elegant appearance, who had ar- 
rived about half an hour previously. He was certainly the tall 
young man with light hair, red beard, black eyes, and brilliant 
complexion, whom his master had so particularly described to 
him. When the count entered the room the young man was care- 
lessly stretched on a sofa, tapping his boot with the gold-headed 
cans which he held in his hand. On perceiving the count he rose 
quickly. 44 The Count of Monte-Cristo, I believe? ” said he. 

44 Yes, sir, and I think I have the honor of addressing M. le 
Comte Andrea Cavalcanti ! ” 

44 Count Andrea Cavalcanti,” repeated the young man, accom* 
panying his words with a bow. 

44 You are charged with a letter of introduction addressed to 
me, are you not? ” said the count. 

44 1 did not mention that, because the signature seemed to me so 
5trange.” 

44 The letter signed 4 Sinbad the Sailor/ is it not ? M 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 2 67 


“ Exactly so. Now, as I have never known any Sinbad, with 
the exception of the one celebrated in the 1 Arabian Nights’ ” 

“ Well? it is one of his descendants, a great friend of mine ; he 
is a very rich Englishman, eccentric almost to insanity ; and his 
real name is Lord Wilmore.” 

“ Ah 1 indeed! then that explains everything,” said Andrea, 
“that is extraordinary. He is, then, the same Englishman whom 
I met — at — yes, very well ! I am at your lordship’s service.” 

“ If what you say be true,” replied the count, smiling, “per- 
haps you will be kind enough to give me some account of yourself 

and your family ? ” “ Certainly, I will do so,” said the young 

man, with a quickness which gave proof of his ready invention. 
“ I am (as you have said) Count Andrea Cavalcanti, son of JMajor 
Bartolomeo Cavalcanti, a descendant of the Cavalcanti whose 
names are inscribed in the Golden Book at Florence. Our family, 
although still rich (for my father’s income amounts to half a 
million), has experienced many misfortunes, and I myself was, at 
the age of five years, taken away by the treachery of my tutor, 
so that for fifteen years I have not seen the author of my exist- 
ence. Since I have arrived at years of discretion and become 
my own master, I have been constantly seeking him, but all in 
vain. At length I received this letter from your friend, which 
states that my father is in Paris, and authorizes me to apply myself 
to you for information respecting him.” 

“ Really, all you have related to me is exceedingly interesting,” 
said Monte-Cristo, observing the young man with gloomy satis- 
faction ; “ and you have done well to conform in everything to the 
wishes of my friend Sinbad ; for your father is indeed here, and 
is seeking you.” 

The count, from the moment of his first entering the drawing- 
room, had not once lost sight of the expression of the young man’s 
countenance ; he had admired the assurance of his look and 
the firmness of his voice ; but at these words, so natural in them- 
selves, “ Your father is indeed here, and is seeking you,” young 
Andrea started, and exclaimed, “My father! is my father 
here ? ” 

“Most undoubtedly,” replied Monte-Cristo; “your father, 
Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti." The expression of terror which, 
for the moment, had overspread the features of the young man, 
had now disappeared. “Ah! yes, that is the name, certainly. 
Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti. And you really mean to say, that 
my dear father is here ? ” 

“ Yes ; and I can even add that I have only just left his com- 
pany. The story which he related to me of his lost son touched 
me to the quick ; indeed, his griefs, hopes, and fears, on that sub- 
ject might furnish material for a most pathetic poem. At length, 
he one day received a letter, stating that the parties who had de- 
prived him of his son, now offered to restore him, or at least to 


268 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


give notice where he might be found, on condition of receiving 
a large sum of money, by way of ransom. Your father did not 
hesitate an instant, and the sum was sent to the frontier of Pied- 
mont, with a passport signed for Italy. You were in the south 
of France, I think ? M 

4 4 Yes,” replied Andrea, with an embarrassed air, 44 1 was in the 
south of France.” 

4 4 Your father ought to have met with you on the road, for he took 
exactly the same route, and that is how we have been able to 
trace your journey to this place.” 

44 But,” said Andrea, 44 if my father had met me, I doubt if he 
would have recognized me ; I must be somewhat altered since he 
last saw me.” 

44 Oh! the voice of nature,” said Monte-Cristo. 

44 True,” interrupted the young man, 44 1 had not looked upon 
it in that point of view.” 

44 Now,” replied Monte-Cristo, 44 there is only one source of un- 
easiness left in your father’s mind, which is this — he is anxious to 
know how you have been employed during your long absence 
from him ; how treated by your persecutors ; and if they have 
conducted themselves toward you with all the deference due to 
your rank. Finally, he is anxious to see if you have been fortunate 
enough to escape the bad moral influence to which you have been 
exposed, infinitely more to be dreaded than any physical suffering ; 
he wishes to discover if the fine abilities with which nature had 
endowed you have been weakened by want of culture ; and, in 
short, whether you consider yourself capable of resuming and 
retaining in the world the high position to which your rank en- 
titles you.” 

44 Sir,” returned the young man, with a reassurance of manner, 
44 make your mind easy on this score. Those who took me from 
my father, and who always intended, sooner or later, to sell me 
again to my original proprietor, as they have now done, calcu- 
lated that, in order to make the most of their bargain, it would be 
politic to leave me in possession of all my personal and hereditary 
worth, and even to increase the value, if possible. I have, 
therefore, received a very good education, and have been treated 
by these kidnappers very much as the slaves were treated in Asia 
Minor, whose masters made them grammarians, doctors, and 
philosophers, in order that they might fetch a higher price in the 
Roman market.” 

Monte-Cristo smiled with satisfaction ; it appeared as if he had 
not expected so much from M. Andrea Cavalcanti. 

44 Besides,” continued the young man, 44 if there did appear 
some defect in education, or offence against the established forms 
of etiquette, I suppose they would be excused, in consideration oi 
the misfortunes which accompanied my birth, and followed me 
through my youth.” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


269 


•» Well/* said Monte-Cristo, in an indifferent tone, *• you will do 
as you please, count, for you are the master of your own actions, 
and the person most concerned in the matter ; but if I were you, I 
would not divulge a word of these adventures. You might excite 
a little curiosity, but it is not every one who likes to be made the 

centre of observation and the subject of unpleasant remark.” 

" I agree with your lordship,” said the young adventurer, turning 
pale, and, in spite of himself, trembling beneath the scrutinizing 
look of his companion, “such consequences would be extremely 
unpleasant.” 

" Nevertheless, you must not exaggerate the evil,” said Monte- 
Cristo, 44 or by endeavoring to avoid one fault you will fall into an- 
other. You must resolve upon one simple and single line of con- 
duct ; and for a man of your intelligence, this plan is as easy as it is 
necessary; you must form honorable friendships, and by that 
means counteract the prejudice which may attach to the obscurity 
of your former life.” Andrea visibly changed countenance. 44 1 
would offer myself as your surety and friendly adviser,” said 
Monte-Cristo, 44 did I not possess a moral distrust of my best friends, 
and inclination to lead others to doubt them too ; therefore, in de- 
parting from this rule, I should (as the actors say) be playing a 
part quite out of my line, and should, therefore, run the risk of be- 
ing hissed, which would be an act of folly.” 

44 However,” said Andrea, 44 in consideration of Lord Wilmore, 

by whom I was recommended to you ” 

44 Yes, certainly,” interrupted Monte-Cristo; 44 but Lord Wil- 
more did not omit to inform me, my dear Signor Andrea, that the 
season of your youth was rather a stormy one. Ah ! ” said the 
count, watching Andrea’s countenance, 44 I do not demand any 
confession from you ; it is precisely to avoid that necessity that 
your father was sent for from Lucca. You shall soon see him ; he 
is a little stiff and pompous in his manner, and he is disfigured by 
his uniform ; but when it becomes known that he is in the Austrian 
service, all that will be pardoned. In short, you will find your 
father a very presentable person, I assure you.” 

44 Ah, sir, you have given me confidence ; it is so long since we 
were separated, that I have not the least remembrance of him ; 
and, besides, you know that in the eyes of the world a large for* 
tune covers all defects.” 

44 He is a millionaire — his income is 500,000 francs.” 

44 Then,” said the young man, with anxiety, 44 1 shall be sure to 
be placed in an agreeable position.” 

44 One of the most agreeable possible, my dear sir; he will 
allow you an income of 50,000 livres per annum during the whole 
time of your stay in Paris.” 

“Then in that case I shall always choose to remain there.” 
“Yew «^mnot control circumstances, my dear sir; 4 man pro- 
poses, and God disposes.’ ” Andrea sighed. 44 But,” said he, 41 so 


270 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


long as I do remain in Paris, and nothing forces me to quit it, do 
you mean to tell me that I may rely on receiving the sum you just 
now mentioned to me?” 

“ Yes, you will receive it from your father personally, but Lord 
Wilmore will be security for the money. He has, at the request 
of your father, opened an account of 5,000 francs a month at 
Danglars’, one of the safest banks in Paris.” 

“ And does my father mean to remain long in Paris ? ” asked 
Andrea. 

“ Only a few days,” replied Monte-Cristo. 0 His service does 
not allow him to absent himself more than two or three weeks to- 
gether.” 

“ Ah ! my dear father ! ” exclaimed Andrea, evidently charmed 
with the idea of his speedy departure. 

“Therefore,” said Monte-Cristo, feigning to mistake his mean- 
ing — “ therefore I will not, for another instant, retard the pleasure 
of your meeting.” 

“ Go, then, into the drawing-rocm, my young friend, where you 
will find your father awaiting you.” 

Andrea made a low bow to the count, and entered the adjoining 
room. Monte-Cristo watched him till he disappeared, and then 
touched a spring made to look like a picture, which, in sliding 
partially from the frame, discovered to view a small interstice, 
which was so cleverly contrived that it revealed all that was pass- 
ing in the drawing-room now occupied by Cavalcanti and Andrea. 
The young man closed the door behind him, and advanced to- 
ward the major, who had risen when he heard steps approaching 
him. “ Ah ! my dear father ! ” said Andrea in a loud voice, in 
order that thr. count might hear him in the next room, “ is it really 
you? ” 

“ How do you do, my dear son? ” said the major gravely. 

“After so many years of painful separation,” said Andrea, in 
the same tone, and glancing toward the door, “ what a hapinessit 
is to meet again ! ” “ Indeed it is, after so long a separation." 

“ Then we are once more reunited ? ” said Andrea. 

“ Once more ! ” replied the major. 

“ Never more to be separated ? ” 

“ Why, as to that — I think, my dear son, you must be by this 
time so accustomed to France as to look upon it almost as a sec- 
ond country.” 

“ The fact is," said the young man, “ that I should be exceed- 
ingly grieved to leave it.” 

“ As for me, you must know I cannot possibly live out of Lucca ; 
therefore I shall return to Italy as soon as I can.” 

“ But before you leave France, my dear father, I hope you will 
put me in possession of the documents necessary to prove my 
descent." 

M Certainly, I am come expressly on that account ; it has cost 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


271 


me much trouble to find you, but I had resolved on giving them 
into your hands ; and if I had to recommence my search, it would 
occupy all the few remaining years of my life.” 

Andrea seized the certificate of his father’s marriage and his 
own baptismal register, and after having opened them with all the 
eagerness which might be expected under the circumstances, he 
read them with a facility which proved that he was accustomed to 
similar documents, and with an expression which plainly denoted 
an unusual interest. When he had perused the documents, an in- 
definable expression of pleasure lighted up his countenance, and 
looking at the major with a most peculiar smile, he said, in very 
excellent Tuscan, — “Then there is no longer any such thing in 
Italy as being condemned to the galleys ? ” 

The major drew himself up to his full height. 

“ Why ? — what do you mean by that question ? ” 

11 1 mean that if there were, it would be impossible to draw up 
with impunity two such deeds as these. In France, my dear sir, 
half such a piece of effrontery as that would cause you to be 
quickly despatched to Toulon prison for five years, for change of 
air.” 

“ Will you be good enough to explain your meaning ? ” said the 
major, endeavoring as much as possible to assume an air of the 
greatest majesty. 

“ My dear M. Cavalcanti/’ said Andrea, taking the major by 
the arm in a confidential manner, “ how much are you paid for 
being my father? ” The major was about to speak, when Andrea 
continued, in a low voice, — “ Nonsense ! I am going to set you an 
example of confidence ; they give me 50,000 francs a year to be 
your son ; consequently, you can understand that it is not at all 
likely I shall ever deny my parent.” The major looked anx- 
iously around him. “ Make yourself easy, we are quite alone,” 
said Andrea ; “ besides, we are conversing in Italian.” 

“Well, then,” replied the major, “ they paid me 50,000 francs 
down. I have proofs.” The major drew from his pocket a hand- 
ful of gold. “ Most palpable,” said he, “as you may perceive.” 
“ You think, then, that I may rely on the count’s promises ? ” 
“To the letter ; but at the same time, remember, we must con- 
tinue to play our respective parts. I, as a tender father ” 

“And I as a dutiful son, as they choose that I shall be de- 
scended from you.” 

“ Who do you mean by they ? ” 

“ I can hardly tell, but I was alluding to those who wrote the let- 
ter ; you received one, did you not ? ” 

“ From Abbe Busoni.” 

“ Have you any knowledge of him?'* 

“ No, I have never seen him.” 

14 What did he say in the letter ? ’* 


2/2 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


The major gave a letter into the young man’s hand. Andrea 
read in a low voice : — 

44 You are poor ; a miserable old age awaits you. Would you 
like to become rich, or at least independent? Set out immedi- 
ately for Paris, and ask of the Count of Monte-Cristo, Avenue des 
Champs Ely sees, No. 30, the son whom you had by the Marchesa 
Corsin-ari, and who was taken from you at five years of age. This 
son is named Andrea Cavalcanti. In order that you may not 
doubt the kind intention of the writer of this letter, you will find 
enclosed an order for 2,4.00 francs, payable in Florence, atGozzi’s ; 
also a letter of introduction to the Count of Monte-Cristo, on 
whom I give you a draft of 48,000 francs. Remember to go to the 
count on the 26th May at seven o’clock in the evening. 

(Signed) " Abbe Busoni.” 

" I received a letter almost to the same effect.” 

" From Busoni ? ” " No ; from an English Lord, Wilmore, 

who takes the name of Sinbad the Sailor.”. 

41 And of whom you have no more knowledge than I of the 
ft.bbe Busoni ? ” 

" You are mistaken ; there I am in advance of you.” 

"You have seen him, then?” 

" Yes, once.” 

" Where ? ” 

"Ah! that is just what I cannot tell you; if I did, I should 
make you as wise as myself, which it is not my intention to do.” 

" And what did the letter contain ? ” 

" Read it.” 

" 4 You are poor, and your future prospects are dark and gloomy. 
Do you wish for a name ? should you like to be rich, and your own 
master? ’ ” 

" Per Baccho /” said the young man; 14 was it possible there 
could be two answers to such a question ? ” 

" 1 Take the post-chaise which you will find waiting at the Porte 
de Genes, as you enter Nice ; pass through Turin, Chambery, and 
Pont-de-Beauvoisin. Go to the Count of Monte-Cristo, Avenue 
des Champs-Elysees, on the 26th of May, at seven o’clock in the 
evening, and demand of him your father. You are the son of the 
Cavalcanti and the Marchesa Oliva Corsinari. The marquis will 
give you some papers which will certify this fact, and authorize 
you to appear under that title. An annual income of 50,000 livres 
will enable you to support it admirably. I enclose a draft for 
5,000 livres, payable on Signor Ferrea, banker at Nice, and also 
a letter of introduction to the Count of Monte-Cristo, whom I have 
directed to supply all your wants. " * Sinbad the Sailor.* ” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 273 

•• Humph!** said the major; “ very good! Do you under- 
stand it ? ” 

“ Not in the least.” 

" There is a dupe somewhere.” 

“ At all events, it is neither you nor I.” 

“ It does not much concern us ; do you think it does?” 

“No! I agree with you there ; we must play the game to the 
end, and consent to be blindfold.” 

“ Monte-Cristo chose this moment for re-entering the drawing- 
room. On hearing the sound of his footsteps, the two men threw 
themselves in each other’s arms ; and, in the midst of this em- 
brace, the count entered. 

“Well, marquis,” said Monte-Cristo, “ you appear to be in no 
way disappointed in the son whom your good fortune has restored 
to you.” “ Ah ! Count, I am overwhelmed with delight.” 

“And what are your feelings?” said Monte-Cristo, turning to 
the young man. 

“ My heart is overflowing with happiness.” 

“ Happy father ! happy son ! ” said the count. 

“ There is only one thing which grieves me,” observed the ma- 
jor, “and that is the necessity there is for my leaving Paris so 
soon.” 

“ Ah ! my dear M. Cavalcanti, I trust you will not leave before 
I have had the honor of presenting you to some of my friends.” 

“ I am at your service, sir,” replied the major. 

“Now, sir,” said Monte-Cristo, addressing Andrea, “tell M. 
Cavalcanti something of the state of your finances.” 

“ You have touched upon a tender cord.” 

“ Your son says he requires money.” 

“ Well ! what would you have me do ? ” said the major. 

“ You should furnish him with some, of course,” replied Monte- 
Cristo, at the same time advancing toward Andrea, and slipping a 
packet of bank-notes into the young man’s hand. 

“ From your father.” 

“ From my father?” 

“ Yes ; did you not tell him just now that you wanted money ? 
Well, then, he deputes me to give you this, for the first expenses of 
your settling in Paris.” 

“ Ah ! how good my dear father is ! ” 

“ Silence ! ” said Monte-Cristo ; “he does not wish you to know 
that it comes from him.” 

“I fully appreciate his delicacy,” said Andrea, cramming the 
notes hastily into his pocket. 

“ And now, gentlemen, I wish you good morning,” said Monte- 
Cristo. 

“And when shall we have the honor of seeing you again, lord* 
ship? ” asked Cavalcanti. 

“ Ah ! ” said Andrea, “ when may we hope for that pleasure ? M 

*8 


2 7 4 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


"On Saturday, if you will — yes. — Let me see — Saturday — I am 
to dine at my country-house, at Auteuil. Several persons are in- 
vited, and amongst others, M. Danglars, your banker. I will in- 
troduce you to him ; for it will be necessary he should know you, 
as be is to pay your money.” 

" Full dress? ” said the major, half aloud. 

" Oh ! yes, certainly,” said the count ; " uniform, cross, med- 
als, and so on.” 

" And how shall I be dressed ? ” demanded Andrea. 

"Oh! very simply. Go to Blin or Veronique for your suit, 
Baptistin w!!i tell you where. The less pretension in your dress, 
the better will be the effect, as you are a rich man. If you mean 
to buy any horses, get them of Devedeux ; and if a phaeton, go 
to Baptiste for it.** 

"At what hour shall we come ? ” asked the young man. 

" About half-past six.” 

"We will be with you at that time,” said the major. The two 
Cavalcanti bowed to the count, and left the house. Monte-Cristo 
went to the window, and saw them crossing the street, arm in arm. 
"There go two rascals!” said he. "It is a pity they are not 
really related! ” then, after an instant of gloomy reflection said 
he : " Come, I will go to see the Morrels ! I think that disgust is 

even more sickening that hatred.” 


CHAPTER XXXVIII. 

THE TRYSTING PLACE. 

In the enclosure surrounding Villefort’s house, Maximilian wa* 
the first to arrive. He was intently watching for a shadow to ap&lt; 
pear amongst the trees, and awaiting with anxiety the sound of a 
light step on the gravel walk. At length, the long-desired sound 
was heard, and instead of one figure, as he had expected, he 
perceived that two were approaching him. The delay had been 
occasioned by a visit from Madame Danglars and Eugenie, which 
had been prolonged beyond the time at which Valentine was ex* 
pected. In the space of about half an hour the ladies retired, and 
Maximilian understood that the Danglars’ visit had at last come to 
a conclusion. In a few minutes Valentine re-entered the garden 
alone. For fear that any one should be observing her return, she 
walked slowly ; and instead of immediately directing her steps to- 
ward the gate, she seated herself on a bank, and, carefully casting 
her eyes around, to convince herself that she was not watched, she 
presently rose, and proceeded quickly to join Maximilian. 

" Good evening, Valentine,” said a well-known voice. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 275 

•« Good evening, Maximilian ; I know I have kept you waiting, 
but you saw the cause of my delay/’ 

«• Yes, I recognized Mdlle. Danglars. I was not aware that you 
were so intimate with her.” 

“ We were having a confidential conversation,” returned 
Valentine; “she was telling to me her repugnance to marriage 
with M. de Morcerf ; and I, on the other hand, was confessing to 
her how wretched it made me to think of marrying M. d’Epinay.” 

“ Dear Valentine ! ” 

“That will account to you for the unreserved manner which 
you observed between me and Eugenie ; as in speaking of the 
man whom I could not love, my thoughts involuntarily reverted to 
him on whom my affections were fixed.’’ 

“ Ah, how good you are to say so, Valentine ! Does Mdlle. 
Danglars object to this marriage with Morcerf on account of loving 
another? ” 

“She told me that she loved no one,” said Valentine ; “dis- 
liked the idea of being married ; would infinitely prefer leading 
an independent and unfettered fife ; and almost wished her 
father might lose his fortune, that she might become an artiste like 
her friend, Louise d’Armilly.” 

“ Must you leave me soon ? ” 

Mdme. de Villefort sent to request my presence, as she had a 
communication to make on which a part of my fortune depended. 
Let them take my fortune, I am already too rich ; and, perhaps, 
when they have taken it, they will leave me in peace and quiet- 
ness. You would love me as much if I were poor, would you not, 
Maximilian ? ” 

“Oh! I shall always love you. What should I care for either 
riches or poverty, if my Valentine was near me, and I felt certain 
that no one could deprive me of her? But do you not fear that 

this communication may relate to your marriage ? ” “ I do not 

think that is the case.” 

“ But I was going to tell you that I met M. de Morcerf the 
other day. He has received a letter from his friend Franz, an- 
nouncing his immediate return.” Valentine turned pale, and 
leaned against the gate for support. 

“ Can it really be true, and is that why Mdme. de Villefort 
has sent for me? No, that cannot be the case, for the communi- 
cation would not be likely to ceme through her instrumentality. 
It has appeared as if she secretly objected to the marriage, al- 
though she did not choose openly to oppose it.” “ Is it so? 

Then I feel as if I could adore Mdme. de Villefort.” 

“ Do not be in such a hurry to do that,” said Valentine, with a 
sad smile. 

“If she objects to your marrying M. d’Epinay, she would be 
&amp;U the more likely to listen to any other proposition.” “No, 


2J6 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


Maximilian, it is not suitors to which Mdme. de Villefort objects, 
it is marriage itself.” 

“ Tell me what interest Mdme. de Villefort can have in your re- 
maining unmarried ? ” 

“ Did I not tell you just now that I was rich, Maximilian — too 
rich ? I possess nearly 50,000 livres in right of my mother ; my 
grandfather and my grandmother, the Marquis and Marchioness 
St. Meran, will leave me as much more : and M. Noirtier evidently 
intends making me his heiress. My brother Edward, who inherits 
nothing Irom his mother, will, therefore, be poor in comparison 
with me. Now, if I had took the veil, all this fortune would 
have descended to my father, and, in reversion, to his son.” 

4 Ah ! how strange it seems that such a young and beautiful 
Woman should be so avaricious.” 

“ It is not for herself that she is so, but for her son ; and what 
you regard as a vice becomes almost a virtue when looked at in 
the light of maternal love.” 

91 But could you not compromise matters, and give up a portion 
of your fortune to her son ? * 

“ How could I make such a proposition, especially to a woman 
who always professes to be entirely disinterested? ” 

“Valentine, I have always regarded our love in the light of 
something sacred ; consequently, I have covered it with the veil 
of respect, and hid it in the inmost recesses of my soul ; no human 
being, not even my sister, is aware of its existence. Valentine, 
will you permit me to make a confidant of a friend, and reveal to 
him the love I bear you? ” 

Valentine started. “A friend, Maximilian; and who is this 
friend ! I tremble to give my permission.** 

99 Listen, Valentine. Have you never experienced for any one 
that sudden and irresistible sympathy which made you feel as if 
the object of it had been your old and familiar friend, though, in 
reality, it was the first time you had ever met ? ’* 

99 You have known him for some time, then? ” 

91 Scarcely longer than eight or ten days.** 

“And do you call a man your friend whom you have onlyr 
known for eight or ten days? Ah, Maximilian, I had hoped you 
set a higher value on the title of friend.’* 

“Your logic is most powerful, Valentine; but say what you 
will, I can never renounce the sentiment which has instinctively 
taken possession of my mind. I feel as if it were ordained that 
this man should be associated with all the good which the future 
may have in store for me , and sometimes it really seems as if his 
eye was able to see what was to come, and his hand endowed 
with the power of directing events according to his own will.** 

“ He must be a prophet, then,*’ said Valentine ; “ do let me see 
this man, Maximilian ; he may tell me whether I shall ever be 
loved sufficiently to make amends for all I have suffered.” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 277 

“ My poor girl ! you know him already. He saved the life of 
your step-mother and her son.” 

“ The Count of Monte-Cristo ? ” “ The same.” 

“ Ah ! ” cried Valentine, 0 he is too much the friend of Mdme. 
de Villefort ever to be mine.” 

“The friend of Mdme. de Villefort! It cannot be; surely, 
Valentine, you are mistaken? ” 

“ No, indeed, I am not ; for I assure you, his power over our 
household is almost unlimited. He appears to exert a mysterious 
and almost uncontrollable influence over all the members of our 
family.” 

“ If such be the case, my dear Valentine, you must yourself 
have felt, or at all events will soon feel, the effects of his presence. 
He meets Albert de Morcerf in Italy — it is to rescue him from 
banditti' ; he introduces himself to Mdme. Danglars — to give her a 
royal present ; your step-mother and her son pass before his door 
— his Nubian saves them from destruction. This man evidently 
possesses the power of influencing events, both as regards men 
and things. I never saw more simple tastes united to greater 
magnificence. His smile is so sweet when he addresses me, that I 
forget it can ever be bitter to others. Ah ! Valentine, tell me, if 
he ever looked on you with one of those sweet smiles? if so, 
depend on it, you will be happy.” 

“ Me ! ” said the girl, “ he never even glances at me ; on the 
contrary, if I accidentally cross his path, he appears rather to 
avoid me. Ah, he is not generous, neither does he possess that 
supernatural penetration which you attribute to him ; for if he had, 
he would have perceived that I was unhappy ; and if he had 
been generous, seeing me sad and solitary, he would have used 
his influence to my advantage ; and since, as you say, he re- 
sembles the sun, he would have warmed my heart with one of his 
life-giving rays. You say he loves you, Maximilian ; how do you 
know that he does? All would pay deference to an officer like 
you, with a fierce moustache and a long sabre ; but they think 
they may crush a poor weeping girl with impunity.” 

“ Ah, Valentine ! I assure you you are mistaken.” 

“If it were otherwise — if he treated me diplomatically — that is 
to say, like a man who wishes, by some means or other, to obtain 
a footing in the house, so that he may ultimately gain the power of 
dictating to its occupants — he would, if it had been but once, have 
honored me with the smile which you extol so loudly ; but no, he 
saw that I was unhappy ; he understood that I could be of no use 
to him, and therefore paid me no regard whatever. Ah ! forgive 
me,” said Valentine, perceiving the effect which her words were 
producing on Maximilian; “I do not deny the influence of 
which you speak, or that I have not myself experienced it ; but 
with me it has been productive of evil rather than good.” 


27$ 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


“Well, Valentine,” said Morrel, with a sigh, we will not dis- 
Cuss the matter further. I will not make a confidant of him/* 

“ Alas! ” said Valentine, “ I see that I have given you pain. I 
can only say how sincerely I ask pardon for having grieved you* 
But, indeed, I am not prejudiced beyond the power of convic- 
tion. Tell me what this count of Monte-Cristo has done for 
you? ** 

“I own that your question embarrasses me, Valentine, for I 
cannot say that the count has rendered me any ostensible service. 
Still, a secret voice seems to whisper to me that there must be 
something more than chance in this unexpected reciprocity of 
friendship. In his most simple actions, as well as in his most 
secret thoughts, I find a relation to my own. You will perhaps 
smile at me when I tell you that, ever since I have known this 
man, I have involuntarily entertained the idea that all the good 
fortune which has befallen me originated from him. However, I 
have managed to live thirty years without this protection, you 
will say ; but I will endeavor a little to illustrate my meaning. He 
invited me to dine with him on Saturday, which was a very nat- 
ural thing for him to do. Well, what have I learned since ? That 
your mother and M. de Villefort are both coming to this dinner. 
I shall meet them there, and who knows what future advantages 
may result from the interview ? This may appear to you to be no 
unusual combination of circumstances ; nevertheless, I perceive 
some hidden plot in the arrangement — something, in fact, more 
than is apparent on a casual view of the subject.” 

“ If you have no stronger proof to give me ** 

“I have another,** replied Maximilian; ‘‘but I fear you will 
deem it even more absurd than the first. Look through this 
opening, and you will see the beautiful new horse which I rode 
nere.” 

“ Ah ! what a beautiful creature ! *' cried Valentine : “ why did 
you not bring it close to the gate, that I might talk to it and pat 
it?’* 

“It is, as you say, a very valuable animal,** said Maximilian. 
“ You know that my means are limited, and that I am what would 
be designated a man of moderate pretensions. Well, I went to a 
horse-dealer’s, where I saw this magnificent horse, which I have 
named Medea. I asked the price of it ; they told me it was 4, 500 
francs. I was, therefore, obliged to give it up, as you may imag- 
ine ; but I own I went away with rather a heavy heart, for I was 
altogether fascinated with it. The same evening some friends of 
mine visited me. I never play, for I am not rich enough to afford 
to lose, nor sufficiently poor to desire to gain. But I was at my 
own house, you understand, so there was nothing to be done but 
to seffid for cards, which I did. Just as they were sitting down to 
table, Monte-Cristo arrived. He took his seat amongst them ; 
hey played, and I won. I am almost ashamed to say that my 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


279 


gains amounted to 5,000 francs. We separated at midnight. I 
could not defer my pleasure, so I took a cabriolet and drove to the 
horse-dealer’s. Feverish and excited, I rang at the door. The 
person who opened it must have taken me for a madman, for I 
rushed at once to the stable. Medea was standing at the rack, 
eating her hay. I immediately put on the saddle and bridle, to 
which operation she lent herself with the best grace possible ; 
then, putting the 4,500 francs into the hands of the astonished 
dealer, I proceeded to fulfil my intention of passing the night in 
riding in the Champs Elysees. As I rode by the count’s house I 
perceived a light in one of the windows, and fancied I saw the 
shadow of his figure moving behind the curtain. Now, Valentine, 
I firmly believe that he knew of my wish to possess this horse, and 
that he lost expressly to give me the means of procuring it.” 

«* My dear Maximilian, you are really too fanciful ; you will not 
love even me long. A man who accustoms himself to live in such 
a world of poetry and imagination must find far too little excite- 
ment in a common, every-day sort of attachment such as ours. 

But they are calling me. Do you hear ? ” " Ah, Valentine ! ” 

"give me but one finger through this opening in the grating, that 
I may the happiness of kissing it.” 

Valentine mounted the bank, and passed not only her finger 
but her whole hand through the opening. Maximilian uttered a 
cry of delight, and, springing forward, seized the hand extended 
toward him, and imprinted on it a fervent and impassioned kiss. 
The little hand was then immediately withdrawn, and the young 
man saw Valentine hurrying toward the house, as though she 
were almost terrified at her own sensations. 


CHAPTER XXXIX. 

THE PARALYTIC 

We will now relate what was passing in the house after the 
departure of Mdme. Danglars and her daughter, and during the 
conversation between Maximilian and Valentine, just detailed. 
Villefort entered his father's room, followed by his wife. Both of 
the visitors, after saluting the old man and speaking to Barrois, a 
faithful servant, twenty-five years in his service, took their places 
on either side of the paralytic. 

M. Noirtier was sitting in an arm-chair, which moved upon 
castors, in which he was wheeled into the room in the morning, 
and in the same way drawn out again at night. He was placed be- 
fore a large glass, which reflected the whole apartment, and per- 
mitted him to see, without any attempt to move, which would have 
been impossible, all who entered the room, and everything which 


280 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


was going on around him. M. Noirter, although almost as inv 
movable and helpless as a corpse, looked at the new comers with 
a quick and intelligent expression, perceiving at once, by their 
ceremonious courtesy, that they were come on business of an un- 
expected and official character. Sight and hearing were the only 
senses remaining, and they appeared left, like two solitary sparks, 
to animate the miserable body which seemed fit for nothing but 
the grave. The speaking eye sufficed for all. He commanded 
with it ; it was the medium through which his thanks were con- 
veyed. Three persons only could understand this language of the 
poor paralytic ; these were Villefort, Valentine, and the old serv- 
ant of whom we have already spoken. But as Villefort saw his 
father but seldom, and then only when absolutely obliged, and as 
he never took any pains to please or gratify him when he was 
there, all the old man’s happiness was centred in his grand- 
daughter ; Valentine, by means of her love, her patience, and her 
devotion, had learned to read in Noirtier’s look all the varied feel- 
ings which were passing his mind. Villefort did not need the help 
of either Valentine or the domestic in order to carry on with his 
father the strange conversation which he was about to begin. As 
we have said, he perfectly understood the old man’s vocabulary ; 
and if he did not use it more often, it was only indifference and 
listlessness which prevented him from so doing ; he therefore al- 
lowed Valentine to go into the garden, sent away Barrois, and 
after having taken a place on the right hand of his father, while 
Mdme. de Villefort seated herself on the left, he addressed him 
thus : — 

“ I trust you will not be displeased, sir, that Valentine has not 
come with us, or that I dismissed Barrois, for our conference will 
be one which could not with propriety be carried on in the pres- 
ence of either ; Mdme. Villefort and I have a communication to 
make to you.” 

Noirtier’s face remained perfectly passive during this long pre- 
amble ; whilst, on the contrary, the eye of Villefort was en- 
deavoring to penetrate into the inmost recesses of the old man’s 
heart. 

“ Sir,” resumed Villefort, “we are thinking of marrying Valen- 
tine.” Had the old man’s face been moulded in wax, it could 
not have shown less emotion at this news than was now to be 
traced there. “ The marriage will take place in less than three 
months,” said Villefort. Noirtier’s eyes still retained its inani- 
mate expression. 

Mdme. de Villefort now took her part in the conversation, and 
added, — “ We thought this news would possess an interest for you, 
sir, who have always entertained a great affection for Valentine ; 
it therefore only now remains for us to tell you the name of the 
young man for whom she is destined. It is M. Franz de QuesneU 
I3aron Epinay.” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO, 2o\ 

During the time that his wife was speaking, Villefort had nar- 
rowly watched the countenance of the old man. 

Noirtier’s look was furious : it was very evident that something 
desperate was passing in the old man’s mind, for the cry of anger 
and grief rose to his throat, and not being able to find vent in 
utterance, appeared almost to choke him, for his face and lips 
turned quite purple with the struggle. Villefort quietly opened a 
window, saying, “It is very warm 8 and the heat effects M. Noir- 
tier.” He then returned to his place, but did not sit down. “This 
marriage,” added Mdme. de Villefort, “is quite agreeable to the 
wishes of M. d’Epinay and his family : besides, he had no rela- 
tions nearer than an uncle and aunt, his mother having died at 
his birth, and his father having been assassinated in 1815, that is 
to say, when he was but two years old ; it naturally followed that 
the child was permitted to choose his own pursuits, and he has, 
therefore, seldom acknowledged any other authority but that of 
his own will.” 

“ That assassination was a mysterious affair,” said Villefort, 
“and the perpetrators have hitherto escaped detection ; although 
suspicion has fallen on the head of more than one person.” 
Noirtier made such an effort that his lips expanded into a smile. 

“Now,” continued Villefort, “those to whom the guilt really 
belongs, by whom the crime was committed, on whose heads the 
justice of man may probably descend here, and the certain judg- 
ment of God hereafter, would rejoice in the opportunity thur 
afforded of bestowing such a peace-offering as Valentine on the 
son of him whose life they so ruthlessly destroyed.” Noirtier had 
succeeded in mastering his emotion more than could have been 
deemed possible with such an enfeebled and shattered frame. 
“Yes, I understand,” was the reply contained in his look ; and 
this look expressed a feeling of strong indignation, mixed with 
profound contempt. Villefort fully understood his father’s mean- 
ing, and answered by a slight shrug of his shoulders. He then 
motioned to his wife to take leave. They bowed and left the room, 
giving orders that Valentine should be summoned to her grand- 
father’s presence, and feeling sure that she would have much to 
do to restore calmness to the perturbed spirit. Valentine, with a 
color still heightened by emotion, entered the room just after her 
parents had quitted it. One look was sufficient to tell her that her 
grandfather was suffering, and that there was much on his mind 
which he was wishing to communicate to her. 

“Dear grandpapa,” cried she, ci what has happened? They 
have vexed you, and you are angry? ” The paralytic closed his 
eyes in assent. “Who has displeased you ? Is it my father?” 

" No.” “Mdme de Villefort?” “ No.” 

# “ Me ? ” The former sign was repeated. “ Are you displeased 
with me?” cried Valentine in astonishment. M Noirtier again 


282 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


closed his eyes. 44 And what have I done, dear grandpapa, tlv ^ 
you should be angry with me ? ” cried Valentine. 

There was no answer ; and she continued, 44 1 have not seen ye© 
all day. Has anyone been speaking to you against me ? ” — 

44 Yes,” said the old man’s look, with eagerness. 

44 Let me think a moment. I do assure you, grandpapa Ab! 

M. and Mdme de Villefort have just left this room, have they 
not?” 

44 Yes.” 

44 Ah ! I know,” said she, lowering her voice and going close to 
the old man, 44 they have been speaking of my marriage, — have 
they not?” 

44 Yes,” replied the angry look. 

44 1 understand ; you are afraid I shall be unhappy? ” 

44 Yes.” 

44 You do not like M. Franz?” 

The eyes repeated several times, 44 No, no, no.” 

“Then you are vexed with the engagement?” 44 Yes,*' 

44 Well, listen ,’ 1 said Valentine, throwing herself on her knees, 
and puting her arm round her grandfather’s neck. 44 1 am vexed, 
too, for I do not love M. Franz d’Epinay.” An expression of in- 
tense joy illuminated the old man’s eyes. 44 When I wished to re- 
tire into a convent, you remember how angry you were with me ? ” 
A tear trembled in the eye of the invalid. 44 Well,” continued 
Valentine, 44 the reason of my proposing it was that I might escape 
this hateful marriage, which drives me to despair.” Noirtier’s 
breathing became thick and short. 44 Then the idea of this mar- 
riage really grieves you too ? Ah, if you could but help me — if we 
could both together defeat their plan ! But you are unable to op- 
pose them ; you, whose mind is so quick, and whose will is so 
firm, are, nevertheless, as weak and unequal to the contest as I am 
myself. Alas, you, who would have been such a powerful pro- 
tector to me in the days of your health and strength, can now only 
sympathize in my joys and sorrows, without being able to take any 
active part in them. However, this is much, and calls for grati- 
tude ; and Heaven has not taken away all my blessings when it 
leaves me your sympathy and kindness.” 

At these words there appeared in Noirtier’s eye an expression of 
such deep meaning that the girl thought she could read these 
words there, 44 You are mistaken ; I can still do much for you.” 

44 Do you think you can help me, dear grandpapa ? ” said Valen- 
tine. 

44 Yes.” Noirtier raised his eyes ; it was the sign agreed on be- 
tween him and Valentine when he wanted anything. 

44 What is it you want, dear grandpapa?” said Valentine, and 
she endeavored to recall to mind all the things which he would 
be likely to need ; and as the ideas presented themselves to he* 
mind, she repeated them aloud ; but finding that all her efforts 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 283 


elicited nothing but a constant "No," " Come," said she, ** since 
this plan does not answer, I will have recourse to another.” She 
then recited all the letters of the alphabet from A down to N. 
When she arrived at that letter, the paralytic made her under- 
stand that was the initial letter of the thing which he wanted. 
"Ah,” said Valentine, " the thing you desire begins with the letter 
N ; it is with N that we have to do, then. Well, let me see, what 
can you want which begins with N ? Na — Ne — Ni — No — ” 

" Yes, yes, yes,” said the old man’s eye. 

"Ah, it is No, then?” "Yes.” Valentine fetched a 

dictionary, which she placed on a desk before Noirtier ; she 
opened it, and, seeing that the old man’s eye was thoroughly fixed 
on its pages, she ran her finger quickly up and down the columns. 
During the six years which had passed since Noirtier first fell into 
this sad state, Valentine’s powers of invention had been too often 
put to the test not to render her expert in devising expedients for 
gaining a knowledge of his wishes ; and the constant practice had 
so perfected her in the art, that she guessed the old man’s mean- 
ing as quickly as if he himself had been able to seek for what he 
wanted. At the word Notary , Noirtier made a sign to her to stop. 
Valentine rang the bell, and ordered the servant to tell M. or 
Mdme. de Villefort that they were requested to come to M. Noir- 
tier’ s room. M. de Villefort entered, followed by Barrois. 

" Sir,” said Valentine, " my grandfather wishes for a notary. ’ 
" What do you want with a notary? ” asked Villefort. The in- 
valid’s eye remained fixed, by which expression he intended to in- 
timate that his resolution was unalterable. "Is it to do us some 
ill turn? Do you think it is worth while? ” said Villefort. 

" Still,” said Barrois, with the freedom and fidelity of an old 
servant, "if M. Noirtier asks for a notary, I suppose he really 
wishes for a notary ; therefore I shall go at once and fetch one.” 
Three-quarters of an hour after, Barrois returned, bringing the 
notary with him. 

" Sir,” said Villefort, after the first salutations were over, " you 
were sent for by M. Noirtier, whom you see here. All his limbs 
have become completely paralyzed, he has lost his voice also, and 
we ourselves find much trouble in endeavoring to catch some 
fragments of his meaning.” Noirtier cast an appealing look on 
Valentine, which look was at once so earnest and imperative, 
that she answered immediately. "Sir,” said she, "I perfectly 
understand my grandfather’s meaning at all times.” 

" That is quite true ” said Barrois ; " and that is what I told the 
gentleman as we walked along.” " Permit me,” said the no- 

tary, turning first to Villefort and then to Valentine — "In order 
to render an act valid, I must be certain of the approbation or dis- 
approbation of my client. Illness of the body would not affect 
the validity of the deed ; but sanity of mind is absolutely requi- 
site.” 


^84 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 

•' Well, sir, by the help of two signs, which I will acquaint yob 
presently, you may ascertain with perfect certainty that my grand- 
father is still in the full possession of all his mental faculties. M. 
Noirtier, being deprived of voice and motion, is accustomed to 
convey his meaning by closing his eyes when he wishes to signify 
•yes,’ and to wink v/hen he means ‘no.’ You now know quite 
enough to enable you to converse with M. Noirtier ; try.” Noir- 
tier gave Valentine such a look of tenderness and gratitude that 
it was comprehended even by the notary himself. 

“ You have heard and understood what your granddaughter has 
been saying, sir, have you?” asked the notary. Noritier closed 
his eyes. “And you approve of what she said — that is to say, 
you declare that the signs which she mentioned are really those 
by means of which you are accustomed to convey your thoughts? ” 

“ Yes.” 

“Let us try what we can do, then,” said the notary. “You 
accept this young lady as your interpreter, M. Noirtier ? ” 

“ Yes,” 

“ Well, sir, what do you require of me, and what document is 
it that you wish to be drawn up? ” Valentine named all the let- 
ters of the alphabet until she came to W. At this letter the elo- 
quent eye of Noirtier gave her notice that she was to stop. 

“It is very evident that it is the letter W which Mr. Noirtier 
wants,” said the notary. 

“ Wait,” said Valentine; and, turning to her grandfather, she 
repeated, “ Wa — We — Wi — ” The old man stopped her at the 
last syllable. Valentine then took the dictionary, and the notary 
watched her whilst she turned over the pages. She passed her 
finger slowly down the columns, and when she came to the word 
“ Will,” M. Noirtier’s eye bade her stop. 

“ Will ! ” cried the notary ; “it is very evident that M. Noirtier 
is desirous of making his will.” — —“Yes, yes, yes!” motioned 
the invalid. 

“Really, sir, you must allow that this is most extraordinary,” 
said the astonished notary, turning to M. de Villefort. “Yes,” 
said the procureur, “ and I think the will promises to be yet more 
extraordinary ; for I cannot see how it is to be drawn up without 
the intervention of Valentine, and she may, perhaps, be con- 
sidered as too much interested in its contents to allow of her being 
a suitable interpreter of the obscure and ill-defined wishes of her 
grandfather.” 

“No, no, no ! ” replied the eye of the paralytic. 

“What ! ” said Villefort, “ do you mean to say that Valentine 
is not interested in your will? ” 

“ No.” 

“ Sir,” said the notary, whose interest had been greatly excited, 
and who had resolved on publishing far and wide the account of 
this extraordinary and picturesque scene, “ what appeared so im- 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


28$ 


possible to me an hour ago, has now become quite easy and prac- 
ticable ; and this may be a perfectly valid will, provided it be read 
in the presence of seven witnesses, approved by the testator, and 
sealed by the notary in the presence of the witnesses. As to the 
time, it will certainly occupy rather more than the generality of 
wills. There are certain forms necessary to be gone through, and 
which are always the same. As to the details, the greater part 
■ will be furnished afterwards, by the state in which we find the 
affairs of the testator, and by yourself, who, hs.ving had the man- 
agement of them, can, doubtless, give full information on the sub- 
ject. But besides all this, in order that the instrument may not be 
contested, I am anxious to give it the greatest possible authentic- 
ity ; therefore, one of my colleagues will help me, and, contrary 
to custom, will assist in the dictation of the testament. Are you 
satisfied, sir? ” continued the notary, addressing the old man. 

“ Yes,” looked the invalid, his eye beaming with delight at his 
meaning being so well understood. 

'• What is he going to do ? ” thought Villefort, whose position de- 
manded so much reserve, but who was longing to know what 
were the intentions of his father. He left the room to give orders 
for another notary to be sent, but Barrois, who had heard all that 
passed, had guessed his master’s public wishes, and had already 
gone to fetch one. The public prosecutor then told his wife to come 
up. In the course of a quarter of an hour every one had assembled iiv 
the chamber of the paralytic ; the second notary had also arrived, 
A few words sufficed for a mutual understanding between the two 
officers of the law. 

In the strange yet clear mode of Noirtier he signified that he 
had nearly a hundred thousand francs of securities which would 
have been inherited by Valentine but should she marry Epinay, 
he revoked his intentions and would bestow it in charity. 

The prosecutor pretended to be resigned, but quitted the room 
hastily with his wife. 


CHAPTER XL. 

THE TELEGRAPH. 

^ The Villeforts found on their return that the Count of Monte- 
£risto, come in their absence, had been ushered into the drawing- 
room, and was still awaiting them there. Mdme. de Villefort, not 
yet sufficiently recovered from her late emotion to allow of her 
entertaining visitors so immediately, retired to her bed-room, 
whilst her husband who could better depend upon himself, pro- 
ceeded at once to the drawing-room. Although Villefort flattered 
himself that, to all outward view, he had completely masked the 


2 86 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


feelings which were passing in his mind, he did not know that the 
cloud was still lowering on his brow, so much so that the count 
immediately remarked his sombre and thoughtful air. “ Faith ! ” 
said Monte-Cristo, after the first compliments were over, “ what 
is the matter with you, M. de Villefort? Have I arrived at the 
moment that you were drawing up some case of capital indict- 
ment?” Villefort tried to smile. “ No, count,” repliedM.de 
Villefort, “ I am the only victim in this case. It is I who lose my 
cause ; and it is ill-luck, obstinacy, and folly which have caused it 
lo be decided against me.” 

“ To what do you allude ? ” said Monte-Cristo, with well-feigned 
interest. “ Have you really met with some great misfortune ?” 

“ Oh ! ” said Villefort, with a bitter smile, “ it is only a loss of 
money which I have sustained, though, after all, 900,000 francs 
are worth regretting ; but I am the more annoyed with this fate, 
chance, or whatever you please to call the power which has de- 
stroyed my hopes and my fortune, and may blast the prospects of 
my child also, as it is all occasioned by an old man relapsed into 
second childhood.” 

“ What do you say ? ” said the count ; “900,000 francs ! it is in- 
deed a sum which might be regretted even by a philosopher. And 
who is the cause of all this annoyance ? ” 

“My father, as I told you.” 

“ M. Noirtier ! but I thought you told me he had become en- 
tirely paralyzed, and that all his faculties were completely de- 
stroyed ? ” 

“ Yes, his bodily faculties, for he can neither move nor speak, 
nevertheless he thinks, acts, and wills in the manner I have de- 
scribed. I left him about five minutes ago, and he is now occu- 
pied in dictating his will to two notaries.” •“ But to do this he 

must have spoken ? ” 

“ He has done better than that — he has made himself under- 
stood.’* 

“ How was such a thing possible ? ” 

“ By the help of his eyes, which are still full of life, and, as you 
perceive, possess the power of inflicting mortal injury.” 

“ My dear,” said Mdme. de Villefort, who had just entered the 
room, “perhaps you exaggerate the evil.” 

“ Good morning, madame! ” said the count, bowing. Mdme. 
de Villefort acknowledged the salutation with one of her most 
gracious smiles. “ What is this that M. de Villefort has been tell- 
ing me?” demanded Monte-Cristo, “ and what incomprehensible 
.misfortune 

' “ Incomprehensible is not the word ! ” interrupted the lawyer, 

shrugging his shoulders. “ It is an old man’s caprice.” 

“ And is there no means of making him revoke his decision ? ” 

“Yes,” said Mdme. de Villefort ; “ and it is still entirely in the 
power of my husband to cause the will, which is now in prejudice 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


28 7 


of Valentine* to be altered in her favor.' * The count, who per- 
ceived that the Villeforts, were beginning to speak in parables, ap-. 
peared to pay no attention to the conversation, and feigned to be 
busily engaged in watching Edward, mischievously pouring ink 
into the bird’s water-glass. 

44 My dear,” said Villefort, in answer to his wife, 44 you know I 
have never been accnstomed to play the patriarch in my family, 
nor have I ever considered that the fate of a universe was to be 
decided by my nod. Nevertheless, it is necessary that my will 
should be respected in my family , and that the folly of an old man 
and the caprice of a child should not be allowed to overturn a 
project which I have entertained for so many years. The Baron 
d’Epinay was my friend, as you know, and an alliance 'with his 
son is the most suitable thing that could possibly be arranged.” 
“What! ” said the count, the approbation of whose eye Ville- 
fort had frequently solicited during the speech. 44 What! do you 
say that M. Noirtier disinherits Mdlle. Villefort because she is go- 
ing to marry Baron Epinay ? ” 44 Yes, sir, that is the reason,” 

said Villefort, shrugging his shoulders. 

44 1 believe I know M. Franz d’Epinay,” said the count ; 41 is he 
not the son of General Quesnel, who was created Baron d’Epinay 
by Charles X. ? ” 

44 The same,” said Villefort. 

44 Although General d’Epinay served under Napoleon, did he 
not still retain royalist sentiments ? And was he not the person 
murdered one evening on leaving a Bonapartist meeting to which 
he had been invited on the supposition of his favoring the cause of 
the emperor? ” Villefort looked at the count almost with terror. 

41 The facts were precisely what you have stated,” said Mdme. 
de Villefort ; 44 and it was to prevent the renewal of old feuds that 
M. de Villefort formed the idea of uniting in the bonds of affection 
the two children of these inveterate enemies.” 

44 It was a sublime and charitable thought,” said Monte-Cristo, 
and the whole world should applaud it. It would be noble to 
see Mdlle. Noirtier de Villefort assuming the title of Mdme. 
d’Epinay.” Villefort shuddered and looked at Monte-Cristo as if 
he wished to read in his countenance the real feelings which had 
dictated the words he had just pronounced. But the count com- 
pletely baffled the lawyer’s penetration, and prevented him from 
discovering anything beneath the never-varying smile he was so 
constantly in the habit of assuming. 

44 Although,” said De Villefort, 44 it will be a serious thing for 
Valentine to lose the fortune of her grandfather, I do not think the 
marriage will be prevented on that account, nor do I believe that 
M. d’Epinay will be frightened at this pecuniary loss ; he will, 
perhaps, hold me in greater esteem than the money itself, seeing 
that I sacrifice everything in order to keep my word with him ; be- 
sides, he knows that Valentine is rich in right of her mother, and 


288 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


that she will, in all probability, inherit the fortune of Saint 
Merans, her mother’s parents, who both love her tenderly.’* 

44 And who are fully as well worth loving and tending as M. de 
Noirtier,” said Mdme. de Villefort ; "besides, they are to come to 
Paris in about a month, and Valentine, after the affront she has 
received, need not consider it necessary to continue to bury her- 
self alive by being shut up with M. Noirtier.” 

The count listened with satisfaction to this tale of wounded self- 
love and defeated ambition. 44 But it seems to me,” said Monte- 
Cristo, 44 and I must begin by asking your pardon for what I am 
about to say, that if M. Noirtier disinherits Mdlle. de Villefort on 
account of her marrying a man whose father he detested, he can- 
not have the same cause of complaint against our dear Edward.” 

“True,” said Mdme. de Villefort, with an intonation of voice 
which it is impossible to describe ; is it not unjust — shamefully un- 
just ? Poor Edward is as much M. Nortier’s grandchild as Val- 
entine, and yet, if she had not been going to marry M. Franz, M 
Nortier would have left her all his money ; and supposing Valen- 
tine to be disinherited by her grandfather, she will still be three 
times richer than he.” The count listened and said no more. 

44 However,” said Mdme. de Villefort, returning to the one idea 
which incessantly occupied her mind, 44 perhaps it would be bet- 
ter to represent this unlucky affair to M. d’Epinay, in order to give 
him the opportunity of himself renouncing his claim to the hand of 
Mdlle. de Villefort” 

44 Undoubtedly,” said Villefort, moderating his voice ; 44 a mar- 
riage, once concerted and then broken off, throws a sort of dis- 
credit on a young lady ; then, again, the old reports, which I was 
so anxious to put an end to, will instantly gain ground, — no, it will 
all go well ; M. d’Epinay, if he is an honorable man, will con- 
sider himself more than ever pledged to Mdlle. de Villefort ; un- 
less he were actuated by a decided feeling of avarice ; but that is 
impossible. 

" I agree with M. de Villefort,” said Monte-Cristo, fixing his 
eyes on Mdme. de Villefort; "and if I were sufficiently intimate 
with him to allow of giving my advice, I would persuade him, 
since I have been told M. d’Epinay is coming back, to settle this 
affair at once beyond ail possibility of revocation. I will answer 
for the success of a project which will reflect so much honor on 
M. de Villefort.” The proctor rose, delighted with the proposition, 
but his wife slightly changed color. 4 4 Well, that is all that I wanted, 
and I will be guided by a counsellor such as you are,” said he, 
extending his hand to Monte-Cristo. Therefore let everyone here 
look upon what has passed to-day as if it had not happened, and 
as though we had never thought of such a thing as a change in our 
original plans.** 

44 Sir,” said the count, 44 the world, unjust as it is, will be pleased 
with your resolution ; your friends will be proud of you, and M, 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 289 


&lt;8 J £pinay, even Ce took Mdlle. de Villefort without any dowry, 
wnich he will not do, would be delighted with the idea of entering 
a family which could make such sacrifices in order to keep a 
promise and fulfil a duty.” At the conclusion of these words, the 
count rose to depart. “ Are you going to leave us. Count ? ” said 
Mdme. de Villefort. 

«« I am sorry to say I must do so, madame ; I only came to re* 
mind you of your promise for Saturday.” 

“ Ah ! ” said Villefort, “is it at your house in the Champs- 
Elysees that you receive your visitors ? ” 

“ No,” said Monte-Cristo, “ which is precisely the reason which 
renders your kindness more meritorious, — it is in the country, only 
a mile out — at Auteuil.” 

“ At Auteuil? ” said Villefort ; “ true, Mdme. de Villefort told 
me you lived at Auteuil, since it was to your house that she was 
taken. And in what part do you reside ? ” 

“ Fontaine street.” 

“Fontaine street!” exclaimed Villefort, in an agitated tone; 
“ at what number ? ’ * 

‘ No. 28.” 

“Then,” cried Villefort, “was it you who bought the Saint- 
Meran house ? ” 

“ Did it belong to Saint-Meran ?” demanded Monte-Cristo. 

“ Yes,” replied Mdme. de Villefort: “ and, would you believe 
it, my husband would never live in it.” 

"'Indeed!” returned Monte-Cristo; “that is a prejudice on 
your part, M. de Villefort, for which I am quite at a loss to ac- 
count.” 

“ I do not like Auteuil, sir,” said the lawyer, making an evident 
effort to appear calm. 

“ But I hope you will not carry your antipathy so far as to de- 
prive me of the pleasure of your company, sir!” said Monte- 
Cristo. 

“ No, — I hope— I assure you I will do all I can,’* stammered 
Villefort. 

“ Oh,” said Monte-Cristo, “ I allow of no excuse. On Satur- 
day, at six o’clock, I shall be expecting you, and if you fail to 
come, I shall think — for how do I know to the contrary? — that this 
house, which has remained uninhabited for twenty years, must 
have some gloomy tradition or dreadful legend connected with 
it.” 

“ I will come, — I will be sure to come,” said Villefort, eagerly. 

“ Thank you,” said Monte-Cristo; “ now you must permit me 
to take my leave of you.” 

“ You said before you were obliged to leave us, M. le Comte,” 
said Mdme. de Villefort, “ and you were about to tell us the na- 
ture of the engagement which was to deprive us of the pleasure of 

19 


29 ° 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


your society, when your attention was called to some other sub- 
ject.” 

" Indeed, madame ! ” said Monte-Cristo ; “ I scarcely know if 

I dare tell you where I am going.” “ Bah ! ” 

“ Well, then, it is to see a thing on which I have sometimes 
mused for hours together. A telegraph. So now I have told my 
secret.” 

A telegraph ! ” repeated Mdme de Villefort. 

“ Yes, a semaphore telegraph ! I had often seen one placed at 
the end of a road on a hillock, and in the light of the sun its black 
arms, always reminded one of the claws of an immense beetle : 
and I assure you it was never without emotion that I gazed on it, 
for I could not help thinking how wonderful it was that these odd 
signs should be sent by one man sitting at a table to another 
standing at a desk, and I should like to be the master spirit who 
dictates this mystic language.” 

" Shall I give you a letter to see an office in full work ? ” 

“ Never mind, they would not work naturally under inspection 
of the bearer of a government permit. What line is most interest* 
in g?” 

"The Spanish one is most busy.” 

" Thanks !” 


CHAPTER XLI. 

THE PHANTOM. 

At first sight the exterior of the house at Auteuil, presented neifh. 
ing one would expect from the destined residence of the magnifi* 
cent Count of Monte-Cristo ; but this simplicity was but accord- 
ing to the will of its master, who positively ordered nothing to be 
altered outside ; this was seen by examining the interior. The 
scene changed. M. Bertuccio had outdone himself in the taste 
displayed in furnishing, and in the rapidity with which it was exe- 
cuted. In three days had been planted an entirely bare court with 
poplars, large spreading sycamores shading the different parts of 
the house, before which, instead of the usual paving-stones, half 
hidden by the grass, there extended a turf lawn but that morning 
laid down, and upon which the water was yet glistening. Thus the 
house had become unrecognizable, and Bertuccio himself declared 
he scarcely knew it, encircled as it was by trees. The overseer would 
not have objected, while he was about it, to have made some im- 
provements in the garden, but the count had positively forbidden 
it to be touched. Bertuccio made amends, however, by loading 
the antechambers, staircases, and chimneys with flowers. That 
which, above all, manifested the shrewdness of the steward, and 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


291 

the profound science of the master, the one in carrying out the 
ideas of the other, was, that this house, which appeared only the 
night before so sad and gloomy, impregnated with that sickly 
smell of time, had, in one day, acquired the aspect of life, was 
scented with its master’s favorite perfumes, and had the very light 
regulated ascording to his wish. When the count arrived, he had 
urfder his touch his books and arms, his eyes rested upon his fa- 
vorite pictures ; his dogs, whose caresses he loved, welcomed him 
in the antechamber ; the birds, whose songs delighted him, 
cheered him with their music ; and the house, awakened from its 
'long sleep, like the sleeping beauty in the wood, lived, sang, and 
bloomed like the houses we have long cherished, and in which 
when we are forced to leave them, we leave a part of our souls 
The servants passed gayly along the fine court-yard, some, be- 
longing to the kitchens, gliding down the stairs, restored but 
the previous day, as if they had always inhabited the house ; 
others filling the coach-houses, where the equipages appeared to 
have been installed for the last fifty years ; and in the stables the 
horses replied by neighing to the grooms, who spoke to them with 
much more respect than many servants pay their masters. 

On the other side of the house, to match with the library, was 
the conservatory, ornamented with rare flowers, blossoming in 
china jars ; and in the midst of the greenhouse, marvellous alike 
to sight and smell, was a billiard-table, apparently abandoned 
during the last hour by the players, who had left the balls on the 
cloth. One chamber alone had been respected by Bertuccio. Be- 
fore this room, to which you could ascend by the grand, and go 
out by the back staircase, the servants passed with curiosity, and 
Bertuccio with terror. At five o’clock precisely, the count arrived 
before the house followed by Ali. Bprtuccio was awaiting this ar- 
rival with impatience, mingled with uneasiness ; he hoped for 
some compliments, while, at the same time, he feared to have 
frowns. Monte-Cristo descended into the court-yard, walked all 
over the house, without giving any sign of approbation or dis- 
pleasure, until he entered his bed-room, situated on the opposite 
side of the closed room ; when he approached a little piece of fur- 
niture, made of rosewood, which we remember to have noticed on 
a previous occasion. " That will at least serve to put my gloves 
in,” he said. 

“ Will your Excellency deign to open it ?” said the delighted 
Bertuccio, ** and you will find gloves in it.” In all the rest of the 
furniture the count found everything he required — smell-bottles, 
cigars, trinkets, odds and ends. 

“ Good ! ” he said ; and M. Bertuccio left enraptured, so great, 
so powerful, and real was the influence exercised by this man over 
all who surrounded him. 

precisely six o’clock the clatter of horses’ hoofs was heard at 
ti entrance door ; it was our captain of Spahis, who had arrived 


292 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


on Medea. 44 I am sure I am the first/* cried Morrel ; 41 I did it 
on purpose to have you a minute to myself, before every one 
came. Julie and Emmanuel have a thousand things to tell you 
Ah ! really this is magnificent ! But tell me, count, will your 
people take care of my horse ? ” 

“ Do not alarm yourself, my dear Maximilian — they understand.’* 
44 I mean, because he wants petting. If you had seen at what a 

pace he came, like the wind ! ” 44 I should think so, — a horse 

that cost 5,000 francs!** said Monte-Cristo, in the tone which a 
father would use toward a son. 

44 Do you regret them ? ** asked Morrel, with his open laugh. 

11 1 ? Certainly not ! ’* replied the count. 44 No ; I should only 

regret if the horse had not proved good.” 44 It is so good, that 

I have distanced M. de Chateau- Re naud, one of the best riders in 
France, and M. Debray who both mount the minister’s Arabians ; 
and close at their heels are the horses of Mdme. Danglars, who 
always go at six leagues an hour.’* 

44 Then they follow you ? ** asked Monte-Cristo. 

44 See, they are here ! ’* And at the same minute a carriage 
with smoking horses, accompanied by two mounted gentlemen, 
arrived at the gate, which opened before them. The carriage 
drove round, and stopped at the steps, followed by the horsemen. 
The instant Debray had touched the ground, he was at the car- 
riage door. He offered his hand to the baroness, who, descend- 
ing, took it with a peculiarity imperceptible to everyone but Monte- 
Cristo. But nothing escaped the count’s notice ; and he observed 
a little note, slipped with an indescribable ease, bespeaking fre- 
quent practice, from the lady’s hand to that of the minister’s sec- 
retary. After his wife the banker descended, pale, as though he 
had issued from his tomb, instead of his carriage. Mdme. Dan- 
glars threw a rapid and inquiring glance around, which could only 
be interpreted by Monte-Cristo, embracing the court-yard, and the 
front of the house ; then, repressing slight emotion, which must have 
been seen on her countenance if she had permitted her face to be- 
come pale, she ascended the steps, saying to Morrel, 44 Sir, if you 
were a friend of mine, I should ask you if you would sell your 
horse ? ’ * 

Morrel smiled with an expression very like a grimace, and then 
turned round to Monte-Cristo, as if to ask him to extricate him 
from his embarrassment. The count understood him. “Ah, 
madame ! ** he said, 44 1 am witness that M. Morrel cannot give up 
his horse, his honor being engaged in- keeping it. He laid a wager 
he would tame Medea in the space of six months. You under- 
stand now that if he were to get rid of it before the time named, 
he would not only lose his bet, but people would say he was afraid 
of it ; and a brave captain of Spahis cannot risk this, even to grat- 
ify a pretty woman, which is, in my opinion, one of the most sacred 
obligations in the world/' 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 293 

You see my position, madame,” said Morrel, bestowing a 
grateful smile on Monte-Cristo. 

“It seems to me,” said Danglars, in his coarse tone, ill-con- 
cealed by a forced smile, “that you have already got horses 
enough.” Mdme. Danglars seldom allowed remarks of this kind 
to pass unnoticed ; but, to the surprise of the young people, she 
pretended not to hear it, and said nothing. Monte-Cristo smiled 
at her unusual humility, and showed her two immense porcelain 
jars, covered with marine plants, of a size and delicacy that could 
alone emanate from nature. The baroness was astonished. 
“ Why,” said she, “ you could plant one of the chestnut-trees in 
the Tuileries inside ! How can such enormous jars have been 

manufactured ; ” “ Ah, madame ! ” replied Monte-Cristo, “you 

must not ask of us, the manufacturers, such a question. It is 
tne work of another age, constructed by the genii of earth and 
water.” 

“ How so? — at what period can that have been? ” 

“ I do not know ; I have only heard that an emperor of China 
had an oven built expressly, and that in this oven twelve jars like 
this were successively baked. Two broke, from the heat of the 
fire ; the other ten were sunk three hundred fathoms deep into 
the sea. The sea, knowing what was required of her, threw over 
them her weeds, encircled them with coral, and encrusted them 
with shells ; the whole was cemented by two hundred years be- 
neath these almost impervious depths, for a revolution carried 
away the emperor who wished to make the trial, and only left the 
documents proving the manufacture of the jars and their descent 
into the sea. At the end of two hundred years the documents 
were found, and they thought of bringing up the jars. Divers 
descended in machines, made expressly on the discovery, into the 
bay where they were thrown ; but of ten three only remained, the rest 
having been broken by the waves. I am fond of these jars, upon 
which, perhaps, misshapen, frightful monsters have fixed their 
cold, dull eyes, and in which myriads of small fish have slept, 
seeking a refuge from the pursuit of their enemies.” Meanwhile, 
Danglars, who had cared little for curiosities, was mechanically 
tearing off the blossoms of a splendid orange-tr^e, one after 
another. When he had finished with the orange-tree he began at 
the cactus ; but this, not being so easily plucked as the orange- 
tree, pricked him dreadfully. He shuddered, and rubbed his eyes 
as though awaking from a dream. 

“Sir,” said Monte-Cristo to him, “ I do not recommend my 
pictures to you, who possess such splendid paintings ; but, never- 
theless, here are several worth looking at.” 

“ Stay ! ” said Debray ; “ I recognize this Hobbema.' * 

“ Ah, indeed ! ” “ Yes ; it was offered to the Museum.” 

“ Which, I believe, does not contain one ? '* said Monte-Cristo. 
“ No ; and yet they refused to buy it.” 


294 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


"Why?" said Chateau-Renaud. 

"You pretend not to know, — because government was not rich 
enough." 

" Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti and Count Andrea Cavalcanti ! " 
announced Baptistin. A black satin stock, fresh from the maker’s 
hands, grey moustaches, a bold eye, a major’s uniform, ornamented 
with three medals and five crosses — in fact, the thorough 
bearing of an old soldier — such was the appearance of Major Bar- 
tolomeo Cavalcanti, that affectionate father. Close to him, dressed 
in entirely new clothes, advanced smilingly Count Andrea Caval- 
canti, the dutiful son, whom we also know. The three were talk- 
ing together c On the entrance of the new-comers, their eyes 
glanced from father to son, and then, naturally enough, rested on 
the latter, whom they began criticizing. 

" Cavalcanti! " said Debray. 

" A fine name," said Morrel. 

44 Yes,” said Chateau-Renaud, " these Italians are well named 
and badly dressed." 

44 You are fastidious, Chateau-Renaud," replied Debray, "those 
clothes are well cut and quite new." 

"That is just what I find fault with. That gentleman appears 
to be well dressed for the first time in his life." 

"Who are those gentlemen?" asked Danglars of Monte- 
Cristo. 

" Ah ! true. You do not know the Italian nobility ; the Caval- 
canti are all descended from princes." 

" Have they any means ? " 

" Enormous ! " 

"What do they dp ! " 

"Try to spend it all. They have some business with you, I 
think, from what they told me the day before yesterday. I, in- 
deed, invited them here to-day on your account. I will introduce 
you to them." 

"But they appear to speak French with a very pure accent," 
said Danglars. 

"The son. has been educated in a college in the south ; I be- 
lieve near Marseilles. You will find him quite enthusiastic." 

"Upon what subject? " asked Mdme. Danglars. 

"The French ladies, madame. He has made up his mind to 
take a wife from Paris.” 

"A fine idea that of his! " said Danglars, shrugging his 
shoulders. Mdme. Danglars looked at her husband with an ex- 
pression which, at any other time, would have indicated a storm, 
but she controlled herself. 

" The baron appears thoughtful to-day,” said Monte-Cristo to 
her ; " are they going to put him in the ministry r " 

" Not yet, I think. More likely he has been speculating on the 
Bourse, and has lost money 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


295 


•1 M. and Mdme. de Villefort!** cried Baptistin. They en- 
tered. M. de Villefort, notwithstanding his self-control, was 
visibly affected ; and when Monte-Cristo touched his hand, he felt 
it tremble. “ Certainly, women alone know how to dissimulate,’* 
said Monte-Cristo to himself, glancing at Mdme. Danglars, who 
was smiling on the proctor and embracing his wife. After a 
short time, the count saw Bertuccio, who, until then, had been 
occupied on the other side of the house, glide into an adjoining 
room. He went to him. “What do you want, M. Bertuccio? ” 
said he. 

“ Your excellency has not stated the number of guests.** 

“ Count for yourself.’* 

I Bertuccio glanced through the door, which was ajar. The count 
watched him. 

“ Good heavens ! * 9 he exclaimed. 

“ What is the matter ? ’* said the count 

•« That lady in a white dress and so many diamonds— the fair 
one.” 

“Mdme. Danglars?** 

“ I do not know her name ; but it is she, sir, it is she ! the woman 
of this garden ! — a mother — who was walking while she waited 
for — — ” Bertuccio stood at the open door, with his eyes starting 
and his hair on end. 

“ Waiting for whom ? ** Bertuccio, without answering, pointed 
to Villefort with something of the gesture Macbeth uses to point 
out Banquo. “Oh, oh!” he at length muttered, “ do you see 
him ? ” 

“Him! — M. de Villefort, the Attorney General ? Certainly I 
see him.” 

“ Then I did not kill him ! *’ 

“No; you see plainly he is not dead. Instead of striking be- 
tween the sixth and seventh left rib, as your countrymen do, you 
must have struck higher or lower ; and life is very tenacious in 
these lawyers, or rather there is no truth in anything you have 
told me — it was a flight of the imagination, a dream of your 
fancy. You went to sleep full of thoughts of vengeance ; they 
weighed heavily upon your stomach ; you had the nightmare — 
that’s all. Come, calm yourself, and reckon: the Villeforts, two ; 
the Danglars, four ; the Chateau-Renaud, Debray, Morrel, seven ; 
Major Cavalcanti, eight. ’* 

“ Eight ! ” repeated Bertuccio. 

“ Stop ! You are in a shocking hurry to be off — you forget one 
of my guests. Lean a little to the left. Stay ! look at M. Andrea 
Cavalcanti, that young man in a black coat, looking at Murillo’s 
Madonna ; now he is turning.” This time Bertuccio would have 
uttered an exclamation, had not a look from Monte-Cristo si« 
lenced him. 

“ Benedetto? ** he muttered ; “ fatality ! M 


296 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


“ Half-past six o’clock has just struck, M. Bertuccio,” said the 
count, severely ; “ I ordered dinner at that hour, and I do not 
like to wait;” and he returned to his guests, while Bertuccio, 
leaning against the wall, succeeded in reaching the dining-room. 
Five minutes afterwards the doors of the drawing-room were 
thrown open, and Bertuccio appearing said, with a violent effort, 
“ The dinner is served.” 

The Count of Monte-Cristo offered his arm to Madame de Vil- 
lefort. “ M. de Villefort,” he said, “ will you conduct Barones? 
Danglars? ” 

Villefort complied, and they passed on to the dining-room. . 

It was evident that one sentiment pervaded the whole of the 
guests on entering the dining-room. Each one asked himself 
what strange influence had conducted them to this house ; and yet 
astonished, even uneasy though they were, they still felt they 
would not like to be absent. Stimulated by an invincible curiosity, 
there were none present, even including Cavalcanti and his son, 
notwithstanding the stiffness of the one and the carelessness of the 
other, who were not thoughtful, on finding themselves assembled 
at the house of this incomprehensible man. 

The repast was sumptuous ; Monte-Cristo had endeavored com* 
pletely to overturn Parisian ideas, and to feed the curiosity as 
much as the appetite of his guests. An Oriental feast passed in re- 
view before the eyes of the astonished Parisians, who understood 
that it was possible to expend thousands upon a dinner for ten, 
but only on the condition of eating pearls, like Cleopatra, or 
drinking potable gold, like Lorenzo de’ Medici. Monte-Cristo 
noticed the general astonishment, and began laughing and joking 
about it. “Gentlemen,” he said, “you will admit that, when 
arrived at a certain degree of fortune, the superfluities of life are 
all that can be desired ; and the ladies will allow that, after having 
risen to a certain eminence of position, the ideal alone can be 
more exalted. Now, to follow out this reasoning, what is the 
marvellous ? — that which we do not understand. What is it that we 
really desire? — that which we cannot obtain. Now, to see things 
which I cannot understand, to procure impossibilities, these are 
the study of my life. I gratify my wishes by two means — my will 
and my money. 

“ What would be the use of living i8gq years after Lucullus, if 
we can do no better than he could? ” 

The two Cavalcanti opened their eyes, but had the good sense 
not to say anything. 

“ AH this is very extraordinary,” said Chateau-Renaud ; “still, 
what I admire the most, I confess, is the marvellous promptitude 
with which your orders axe executed. Is it not true that you only 
bought this house five or six days ago? ” 

“ Certainly not longer.” 

“Well, I am sure it is quite transformed since last week. If I 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


297 


remember rightly, it had another entrance, and the courtyard was 
paved and empty ; while to-day we have a splendid lawn, bor- 
dered by trees which appear to be a hundred years old.” 

“Why not? I am fond of grass and shade,” said Monte- 
Cristo. 

“Yes,'* said Mdme. de Villefort, “the door was toward the 
road before ; and on the day of my miraculous escape you 
brought me into the house from the road, I remember.” 

“Yes, madame,” Monte-Cristo ; “but I preferred having an 
entrance which would allow me to see the Bois de Boulogne over 
my gate.” 

“ In four days! ” said Morrel ; “it is extraordinary ! ” 

“ Indeed,” said Chateau-Renaud, “it seems quite miraculous to 
make a new house out of an old one ; for it was very old, and dull 
too. I recollect coming for my mother to look at it when Saint- 

Meran advertised it for sale two or three years ago.” “Saint- 

Meran ! ” said Mdme. de Villefort ; “ then this house belonged to 
Saint-Meran before you bought it ! ” 

“ It appears so,” replied Monte-Cristo. 

“ How ? do you not know of whom you purchased it ?'* 

“ No, indeed ; my steward transacts all this business for me.” 

“ It is certainly ten years since the house had been occupied,” 
said Chateau-Renaud, “ and it was quite melancholy to look at it, 
with the blinds closed, the doors locked, and the weeds in the 
court. Really, if the house had not belonged to the father-in-law 
of the Royal Prosecutor, one might have thought it some accursed 
place where a horrible crime had been committed.” 

Villefort, who had hitherto not tasted the three or four glasses of 
rare wine before him, here took one, and drank it off. 

Monte-Cristo allowed a short time to elapse, and then said, “ It is 
singular, baron, but the same idea came across me the first time I 
entered it ; it looked so gloomy I should never have bought it if 
my steward had not acted for me. Perhaps the fellow had been 
bribed by the agent.” 

“It is probable,” stammered out De Villefort ;“ but, believe 
me, I have nothing to do with this corruption. This house is part 
of the marriage-portion of Valentine, and Saint-Meran wished to 
sell it ; for, if it had remained another year or two uninhabited, it 
would have fallen to ruin. It was Morrel’s turn to become pale. 

“There was, above all, one room,” continued Monte-Cristo, 
“ very plain in appearance, hung with red damask, which, I know 
not why, appeared to me quite dramatic.” 

“ Why so ? ” said Danglars ; “ why dramatic ? ” 

“Can we account for instinct?” said Monte-Cristo. “Are 
there not some places where we seem to breathe sadness ? — why, 
we cannot tell. It is a chain of recollections — an idea which carries 
you back to other times, to other places— which, very likely, have 
no connection with the present time and place. And there is some- 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO&gt; 


298 

thing in this room which reminds me forcibly of Desdemona's, 
Stay, since we have finished dinner, J. wui snow u 10 you, and then 
we will take coffee in the garden. After dinner, the play.” Monte- 
Cristo looked inquiringly at his guests. Mdme. de Villefort rose, the 
host did the same, and the rest followed their example. Villefort 
and Mdme. Danglars remained for a moment, as if rooted to their 
seats ; they interrogated each other with cold glazed eyes. 

44 Did you hear? ” said Mdme. Danglars. 

44 We must go,*’ replied Villefort, offering his arm. 

Every one else was already scattered in different parts of the 
house, urged by curiosity ; for they thought the visit would not be 
limited to the one room, and that, at the same time, they would 
obtain a view of the rest of the building, of which Monte-Cristo 
had created a palace. Each one went out by the open doors. 
Monte-Cristo waited for the two who remained ; tnen, when 
they had passed, he closed the march with a smile, which, if they 
could have understood it, would have alarmed them much more 
than a visit to the room they were about to enter. They therefore 
began by walking through the apartments, many of which were 
fitted up in the Eastern style, with cushions and divans instead of 
beds, and pipes instead of furniture. The drawing-rooms were 
decorated with the rarest pictures, by the old masters ; the 
boudoirs hung with draperies from China, of fanciful colors, fan- 
tastic design, and wonderful texture. At length they arrived at 
the famous room. There was nothing particular about it, except- 
ing that, although daylight had disappeared, it was not lighted, 
and everything in it remained antique, wh:!e the rest of the rooms 
had been re-decorated. These two causes were enough to give it 
a gloomy tinge. 

11 Oh l 99 cried Mdme. de Villefort, “it is really frightful." 

Mdme. Danglars tried to utter a few words, but was not heard. 
Many observations were made, the result of which was the unan- 
imous opinion that there was a sinister appearance in the room. 
44 Is it not so?” asked Monte-Cristo. “Look at that large clumsy 
bed, hung with such gloomy, blood-colored drapery ! And those 
two crayon portraits, that have faded, from the damp; do they 
not seem to say, with their pale lips and staring eyes, • Oh, we 
have seen ! * M 

Villefort became livid ; Mdme Danglars fell into a long seat 
placed near the chimney. 

44 Oh ! ” said Mdme. de Villefort, smiling, “ are you courageous 
enough to sit down upon the very seat perhaps up@a which the 
crime was committed? 99 

Mdme. Danglars rose suddenly. 

“And then,” said Monte-Cristo, opening a door concealed by 
the drapery. 44 Look at it, and tell me what you think of it.*' 

44 What a wicked-looking, crooked staircase,” said Chateau* 
B^naud, smiling. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


299 


u I do not know whether the wine of Chios produces melancholy, 
but certainly everything appears to me black in this house,” said 
Debray. 

“Can you imagine,” said Monte-Cristo, “some Othello, on a 
stormy, dark night, descending these stairs step by step, carrying 
a load, which he wishes to hide from the sight of man, if not from 
God?” Mdme. Danglars half fainted on the arm of Villefort, 
who was obliged to support himself against the wall. 

“ Ah, Mdme., cried Debray, “ what is the matter with you ? how 
pale you look ! ” 

“ What is the matter with her ? ” said Mdme. de Villefort ; “ it 
is very simple : M. de Monte-Cristo is relating horrible stories to 
us, doubtless intending to frighten us to death.” 

“ Yes,” said Villefort, “ really, count, you frighten the ladies.” 
“What is the matter? ” asked Debray, in a whisper, of Mdme. 

Danglars. “ Nothing,” she replied, with a violent effort. “ I 

v/ant air ! that is all.” “ Will you come into the garden? ” said 

Debray, advancing towards the back staircase. 

“ No, no ! ” she answered, “ I would rather remain here.” 

“ Are you really frightened, Mdme? ” said^ Monte-Cristo. 

“Oh, no, sir,” said Mdme. Danglars; “but you suppose 
scenes in a manner which gives them the appearance of reality.” 
“Ah, yes ! ” said Monte-Cristo smiling ; “ it is all a matter of 
the imagination. Why should we not imagine this the apartment 
of an honest matron ? And this bed with red hangings, a bed 
visited by the goddess Lucina ? And that mysterious staircase, 
the passage through which, not to disturb their sleep, the doctor 
and nurse pass, or even the father carrying the sleeping child? ” 
Here Mdme. Danglars, instead of being calmed by the soft pic- 
ture, uttered a groan and fainted. 

“ Mdme Danglars is ill,” said Villefort ; “ it would be better to 
take her to her carriage.” 

“ Oh ! and I have forgotten my smelling-bottle ! ” said Monte- 
Cristo. 

“ I have mine,” said Mdme. de Villefort : and she passed over 
to Monte-Cristo a bottle full of the red liquid whose good proper- 
ties the count had tested on Edward. 

“ Ah ! ” said Monte-Cristo, taking it from her hand. 

“ Yes,” she said, “ at your advice I have tried.” 

“ And have you succeeded ? ” 

“ I think so.” 

Mdme. Danglars was carried into the adjoining room ; Monte- 
Cristo dropped a very small portion of the red liquid upon hef 
lips ; she returned to consciousness. 

“ Ah ! ” she cried, “ what a frightful dream ? ” 

Villefort pressed her hand to let her know it was not a dream. 
Danglars was sought, but, little interested in poetical ideas, he had 
gone into the garden, and was talking with Major Cavalcanti on 


300 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


the projected railway from Leghorn to Florence. Monte-Cristo 
seemed in despair. He took the arm of Mdme. Danglars, and 
conducted her into the garden, where they found Danglars taking 
coffee between the Cavalcanti. 44 Ready, madame,” he said, 
44 did I alarm you much?” 

44 Oh, no, sir,” she answered, “but you know, things impress us 
differently, according to the mood of our minds.” Villefoit forced 
a laugh. *• And then, you know,” he said, 44 an idea, a supposi- 
tion, is sufficient.” “ Well,” said Monte-Cristo, 44 you may be- 

lieve me if yeu like, but it is my belief that a crime has been com- 
mitted in this house.” 

44 Take care!” said Mdme. de Villefort, 44 the prosecutor is 
he*e.” 

44 Ah ; replied Monte-Cristo, 44 since that is the case, I will take 
advantage of his presence to make my declaration.” 

44 Oh, this is very interesting,” said Debray; 44 if there really 
has been a crime, we will investigate it.” 

44 There has been a crime ! ” said Monte-Cristo. 44 Come this 
way, gentlemen ; come, M. Villefort, for a declaration to be avail- 
able, should be made before the competent authorities.” He then 
took Villefort’ s arm, and, at the same time, holding that of Mdme. 
Danglars under his own, he dragged the lawyer to the tree, where 
the shade was thickest. All the other guests followed. 44 Stay,’* 
said Monte-Cristo, 44 here, in this very spot,” (and he stamped upon 
the ground), 44 I had the earth dug up and fresh mould put in, to 
refresh these old trees ; well, my man, digging, found a box, or 
rather the iron-work of a box, in the midst of which was the 
skeleton of a newly-born infant.” Monte-Cristo felt the arm of 
Mdme. Danglars stiffen, while that of Villefort trembled. 44 A 
newly-born infant!’* repeated Debray; 44 this affair becomes 
serious ! ” 

44 Who said it was a crime ? ” asked Villeforte, with a last effort. 

44 How? is it not a crime to bury a living child in a garden? ” 
cried Monte-Cristo. 44 And pray what do you call such an 
action ? ” 

44 But who said it was buried alive ? ” 

44 Why bury it there if it were dead? This garden has never 
been a cemetery.** 

44 What is done to infanticides in this country?” asked Major 
Cavalcanti, innocently. 

44 Oh, their heads are soon cut off,” said Danglars. 

44 Ah ! indeed ! ” said Cavalcanti. 

44 1 think so : am I not right, M. de Villefort?” asked Monte- 
Cristo. 

44 Yes, count,” replied De Villefort, in a voice now scarcely 
human. 

Monte-Cristo saw that the two persons for whom he had pre« 
pared this scheme could scarcely bear it, so, not wishing to carry 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


301 


it too far, he said, 11 Come, gentlemen, some coffee, we seem to 
have forgotten it;” and he conducted the guests back to the 
table on the lawn. 

The lawyer had found time to whisper to Mdme. Danglars, •* I 
must speak to you to-morrow, at my office, or in the courts, if you 
like, that is the surest place.” 

• “ I will go.” 

At this moment Mdme. d^ Villefort approached. u Thanks, my 
dear friend,” said Mdme. Danglars, trying to smile; " it is over 
now, and I am much better.” 


CHAPTER XLII. 

THE BEGGAR. 

M. de Villelort was the first to give the signal of departure. 
He offered a seat in his landau to Mdme. Danglars, that she might 
be under the care of his wife. Danglars, more and more de- 
lighted with Major Cavalcanti, had offered him a seat in his car- 
riage. Andrea Cavalcanti found his tilbury waiting at the door ; 
the tiger was standing on tiptoes to hold a large iron-grey horse. 
Andrea had spoken very little during dinner ; he was an intelli- 
gent lad, and he feared to utter some absurdity before so many 
grand people, amongst whom he saw with dilating eyes the 
proctor. Then he had been seized upon by Danglars, who, 
taking a rapid glance at the stiff-necked old major and his modest 
son, and taking into consideration the hospitality of the comat, 
made up his mind that he was in the society of some nabob come 
to Paris to finish the worldly education of his only son. He con- 
templated with unspeakable delight the large diamond which shone 
on the major’s little finger ; for the major, like a prudent man, in 
case of any accident happening to his bank-notes, had immedi- 
ately converted them into valuables. Then, after dinner, on the 
pretext of business, he questioned the father and son upon their 
mode of living; and the father and son, previously informed that 
it was tlirough Danglars the one was to receive his 48,000 francs 
and the other 50,000 livres annually, they were so full of affability, 
that they would have shaken hands even with the bankers serv- 
ants, so much did their gratitude need an object to expend itself 
upon. Thus it was with much politeness that he heard Cavalcanti 
pronounce these words, “ To-morrow, sir, I shall have the honor 
of waiting upon you on business.” 

*' And I, sir,” said Danglars, “ shall oe most happy to receive 
you.” Upon which he offered to take Cavalcanti in his carriage, 
if it would not be depriving him of the company of his son. To 
this Cavalcanti replied, by saying, that for some time past his son 


302 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


had lived independently of him ; that he had his own horses 3 ffd 
carriages, and that not having come together, it would not be diffi- 
cult for them to leave separately. The major seated himself, 
therefore, by the side of Danglars, more and more charmed with 
the ideas of order and economy which ruled this man, and yet 
who, being able to allow his son 50,000 francs a year, might be 
supposed to possess a fortune of 500,000 or 600,000 livres. 

As for Andrea, he began, by way of showing off, to scold his 
groom, who, instead of bringing the tilbury to the steps of the 
house, had taken it to the outer door, thus giving him the trouble 
of walking thirty steps to reach it. The groom heard him with 
humility, took the bit of the impatient animal with his left hand, 
and with the right held out the reins to Andrea, who, taking them 
from him, rested his polished boot lightly on the step. At that 
moment a hand touched his shoulder. The young man turned 
round, thinking that Danglars or Monte-Cristo had forgotten 
something they wished to tell him, and had returned just as they 
were starting. But instead of either of these, he saw nothing but 
a strange face, sunburnt, and encircled by a beard, with eyes brill- 
iant as carbuncles, and a smile upon the mouth which displayed 
a perfect set of white teeth, pointed and sharp as the wolfs or 
jackal’s. A red handkerchief encircled his grey head ; torn and 
filthy garments covered his large bony limbs, which seemed as 
though, like those of a skeleton, they would rattle as he walked, 
and the hand with which he leant upon the young man’s shoulder, 
and which was the first thing Andrea saw, seemed of a gigantic 
size. Did the young man recognize that face by the light of the 
lantern in his tilbury, or was he merely struck with the horrible 
appearance of his interrogator ? We cannot say ; but only relate 
the fact that he shuddered and stepped back suddenly. “What 
do you want of me ? ” he asked. 

“ Pardon me, my friend, if I disturb you,” said the man with 
the red handkerchief, “but I wish you to spare me the walk back 
to Paris. I am very tired, and not having eaten so good a dinner 
as you, I can scarcely support myself.” The young man shud- 
dered at this gross familiarity. “Tell me,” he said — “ tell me 
what you want ? ” 

“ Well, then, I want you to take me up in your fine carriage, 
and carry me back.” Andrea turned pale, but said nothing. 

“ Yes ! ” said the man, thrusting his hands into his pockets, and 
looking impudently at the youth; “I have taken the whim into 
my head ; do you understand, Master Benedetto ? ” 

At this name, no doubt, the young man reflected a little, for he 
went toward his groom, saying, — “ This man is right ; I did indeed 
charge him with a commission, the result of which he must tell 
me ; walk to the barrier, there take a cab, that you may not be 
too late.” The surprised groom retired. 

gs Let me at least reach a shady spot,” said Andrea, 


THE COUNT OF MONTE LRISTO . 


m 

**0b, as for that, I’ll conduct you to a splendid spot/ 1 said the 
man with the handkerchief; and, taking the horse’s bit, he led 
the tilbury to a place where it was certainly impossible for any one 
So witness the honor that Andrea conferred upon him. 

4 Don't think I want the honor of riding in your fine carriage/’ 
said he ; 44 oh, no, it's only because I am tired, and also because 
I have a little business to talk over with you.” 

44 Come, step in,” said the young man. It was a pity this 
scene had not occurred in daylight, for it was curious to see this 
rascal throwing himself heavily down on the cushion beside th® 
young and elegant driver of the tilbury. Andrea drove past the 
last house in the village without saying a word to his companion, 
vno smiled complacently, as though well pleased to find himself 
traveling in so comfortable a vehicle. Once out of Auteuil, 
Andrea looked around, in order to assure himself that he could 
neither be seen nor heard ; and then, stopping the horse and cross- 
ing his arms before the man, he asked, — 4 Now, tell me why you 

come to disturb my tranquility?” 44 Let me ask you why you 

deceived me ? When we parted, you told me you were going to 
travel through Peidmont and Tuscany; but instead of that, you 
come to Paris.” 

44 How does that annoy you?” 

44 It does not; on the contrary, I think it will answer my pur- 
oose.” 

44 So,” said Andrea, 44 you are speculating upon me ?” 

44 What fine words he uses ! Well, well, don’t be angry, my 
Loy ; you know well enough what it is to be unfortunate ; and 
misfortunes make us jealous. I thought you were earning a living 
in Tuscany or Piedmont by acting as light porter or cicerone ; and 
i pitied you sincerely, as I would a child of my own. You know 
I always did call you my boy ! ” 

44 Come, come, what then?” 

44 Patience ! patience ! ” 

44 1 am patient, but go on.” 

44 All at once I see you pass through the barrier, with a groom, 
a tilbury, and fine new clothes. You must have discovered a 
mine, or else become a stockbroker.” 

44 So that, as you acknowledge, you are jealous?” 44 No, I 

am pleased — so pleased that I wished to congratulate you ; but as 
3 am not quite properly dressed, I chose my opportunity, that I 
might siot compromise you.” 

44 Yes, and a fine opportunity you have chosen t ” exclaimed 
Andrea ; 44 you speak to me before my servant.” 

44 How can I help that, my boy? I speak to you when I can 
catch you You have a quick horse, a light tilbury, you are 
naturally as slippery as an eel ; if I had missed you to-night, I 
might not have had another chance.” 

4 You see, I do not conceal mysclt’ 1 


$04 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


“ You are lucky ; I wish I could say as much : I do conceit 
myself ; and then I was afraid you would not recognize me, but 
you did,” added Caderousse, with his unpleasant smile. “ It was 
very polite of you.” 

“ Come,” said Andrea, “what do you want?” “You do not 

speak affectionately to me, Benedetto, my old friend ; that is not 
right; take care, or I may become troublesome.” This menace 
smothered the young man’s passion. He trotted his horse on. 
“ You should not speak so to an old friend like me, Caderousse, 
as you said just now ; you are a native of Marseilles, I am ” 

“ Do you know then now what you are? ” 

“ No, but I was brought up in Corsica ; you are old and obsti- 
nate, I am young and* wilful. Between folks like us threats are 
out of place, everything should be amicably arranged. Is it my 
fault if Fortune, which has frowned on you, has been kind to 
me ? ” 

“Fortune has been kind to you, then? Your tilbury, your 
groom, your clothes, are not then hired ? Good, so much the 
better,” said Caderousse, his eyes sparkling with avarice. 

“ Oh ! you knew that well enough before speaking to me,” said 
Andrea, becoming more and more excited. “ If I had been wear- 
ing a handkerchief like yours on my head, rags on my back, and 
worn out shoes on my feet, you would not have hailed me.” 

“ You wrong me, my boy ; now I have found you, nothing pre- 
vents my being as well-dressed as any one, knowing, as I do, the 
goodness of your heart. If you have two coats you will give me 
one of them. I used to divide my soup and beans with you when 
you were hungry.” 

“True,” said Andrea. 

“ How did you came to be dining with that prince whose house 
you have just left ? ” 

“ He is not a prince ; simply a count." 

“ A count, and a rich one too, eh? " 
r- “ Yes ; but you had better not have anything to say to him, for 
he is not a very good-tempered gentleman.” 

&gt; “ Oh ! be satisfied ! I have no design upon your count, and you 

shall have him all to yourself. But,” said Caderousse, again 
smiling with the disagreeable expression he had before assumed, 

“ you must pay for it — you understand ? ” “ Well, what do you 

want? ” 

“ I think that with a hundred — a hundred and fifty francs a 
month I should be quite happy.” 

“Here are two hundred,” said Andrea; and he placed ten 
gold pieces in the hand of Caderousse. 

“ Good ! ” said Caderousse. 

“ Apply to the steward on the first day of every month, and you 
will receive the same sum.” 

“ Come, come ; I always said you were a fine fellow, and it is a 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


305 


blessing when good fortune happens to such as you. But tell me 
all about it?” Bf 

«' The fact is, I have found my father. 

“ What ! a real father ? ” 

" Yes, so long as he pays me ” 

11 You’ll honor and believe him— that’s right. What is his 
name?” 

“ Major Cavalcanti ? ” 

“And who found this father for you ? ” 

•• The Count of Monte-Cristo.” 

The man whose house you have just left? 0 
" Yes.” . 

“I wish you would try and find me a situation with him as 
grandfather, since he holds the money-chest ! ” 

«« Well, I will mention you to him. Meanwhile, since you inter- 
est yourself in my affairs, I think it is now my turn to ask you 
some questions.” 

“Ah, true! Well; I shall rent a room in some respectable 
house, wear a decent coat, shave every day, and go and read 
the papers in a saloon. Then, in the evening, I will go to the 
theatre ; I shall look like some retired baker. This is my wish.” 

“ Come, if you will only put this scheme into execution, and be 
steady, nothing could be better.” 

“ Do you think so ? And you — what will you become ? A peer 
of France ? ” 

“Ah!” said Andrea, “who knows?” 

“ Major Cavalcanti is already one, perhaps ; but then, heredi- 
tary rank is abolished.” 

“ No politics, Caderousse ! And now that you have all you 
want, and that we understand each other, jump down from the til- 
bury and disappear." 

“ Not at all, my good friend.” 

“ How ! not at all? ” 

“Why, I should certainly be arrested at the barriers! Then, 
to justify myself, I should say that you gave me the money ; this 
would cause inquiries ; it would be found that I left Toulon 
without giving due notice, and I should then be reconducted to 
the shores of the Mediterranean. Then I should become simply 
No. 106, and good-bye to my dream of resembling the retired 
baker ! No, no, say boy ; I prefer remaining honorably in the 
capital.” Andrea scowled. Certainly, the reputed son of Major 
Cavalcanti was a hasty fellow. He drew up for a minute, threw a 
rapid glance around him ; and, after doing so, his hand fell in- 
stantly into his pocket, where it began playing with a pistol. But, 
meanwhile, Caderousse, who had never taken his eyes off his 
companion, passed his hand behind his back, and unclasped a 
long Spanish knife, which he always carried with him, to be ready 
TO case of need. The two friends, as we see, were worthy of and 
20 


306 the count of monte cristo. 


understood one another. Andrea’s hand left his pocket inoffens* 
ively, and was carried up to the red moustachio, which it played 
with for some time. “ Good Caderousse,” he said, “ how happ^ 
you will be ! ” 

“ I will do my best,” said the innkeeper, reclasping his knife. 

“Well, then, we will go into Paris. But how will you pass 
through the barrier without exciting suspicion? It seems to me 
that you are in more danger riding than on foot.” 

“Wait,” said Caderousse, “we shall see.” He then took the 
great-coat with the large collar, which the groom had left be- 
hind in the tilbury, and put it on his back ; then he took off 
Cavalcanti’s hat, which he placed upon his own head ; and fi- 
nally assumed the careless attitude of a servant whose master 
drives himself. 

“ But, tell me,” said Andrea, “ am I to remain bareheaded ? ” 

“ Pooh ! ” said Caderousse ; “it is so windy that your hat can 
easily appear to have blown off.” 

“ Come, come ; enough of this,” said Cavalcanti. 

“ What are you waiting for ? ” said Caderousse. “ I hope I am 
not the cause.” 

“ Hush! ” exclaimed Andrea. They passed the barrier without 
accident. At the first cross street Andrea stopped his horse, and 
Caderousse leaped out. 

“ Well ! ” said Andrea, “ my servant’s coat and my hat?” 

“Ah! ” said Caderousse, “you would not like me to risk tak- 
ing cold? ” 

“ But what am I to do? ” 

“ You ! oh, you are young, whilst I am beginning to get old. 
We shall meet again, Benedetto ; ” and running into a court, he 
disappeared. “Alas!” said Andrea, sighing, “one cannot be 
completely happy in this world l ” 


CHAPTER XLfIL 

PLANS OF MARRIAGE# 

It was not often that Danglars looked into his wife's own apart- 
ments, but the fancy took him. He waddled in, flopped himself 
down on the sofa and as a pet dog resented his intrusion, he seized 
him by the neck, and threw him to the other side of the room up- 
on a couch. The animal uttered a yelp during the transit, but, ar- 
rived at its destination, it crouched behind the cushions, and, 
stupefied at such unusual treatment, remained silent and motion- 
less. 

“Do you know, sir,” asked the baroness, “that you are im* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 30 7 

proving? Generally you are only rude, but to-night you are 
brutal.’* 

“It is because I am in a worse humor than usual,*’ replied 
Danglars. Hermine looked at the banker with supreme disdain. 
These glances frequently exasperated the pride of Danglars, but 
this evening he took no notice of them. 

“And what have I to do with your ill -humor ? ” said the baron- 
ess, irritated at the impassability of her husband ; “ do these 
things concern me ? Keep your ill-humor at home in your chests : 
or, since you have clerks whom you pay, vent it upon them.” 

“ Not so,” replied Danglars ; “ your advice is wrong, so I shall 
not follow it. My chests are my Pactolus, as, I think, M. De- 
moustier says, and I will not retard its course, or disturb its calm. 
My clerks are honest men, who earn my fortune, whom I pay 
much below their deserts, if I may value them according to what 
they bring in ; therefore I shall not get into a passion with them ; 
those with whom I will be in a passion are those who eat my din- 
ners, mount my horses, and exhaust my fortune.” 

“ And pray who are the persons who exhaust your fortune ? Ex- 
plain yourself more clearly, I beg, sir.” 

“ Oh, make yourself easy ! — I am not speaking riddles, and you 
will soon know what I mean. The people who exhaust my for- 
tune are those who draw out 700,000 francs in the course of an 
hour.” 

“ I do not understand you, sir,” said the baroness, trying to dis- 
guise the agitation of her voice and the flush of her face. “ You 
understand me perfectly, on the contrary,” said Danglars : “ but, 
if you will persist, I will tell you that I have just lost 700,000 francs 
upon the Spanish loan.” 

“And pray,” asked the baroness, “am I responsible for this 
loss ?” 

41 Why not ? ” 44 Is it my fault you have lost 700,000 francs? ” 

44 Certainly it is not mine.” 44 Once for all, sir,” replied the 

baroness, sharply, 44 1 tell you I will not hear cash named ; it is a 
style of language I never heard in the house of my parents or my 
first husband.” 

44 Oh ! I can well believe that, for neither of them was worth a 
penny.” 

44 The better reason for my not being conversant with the slang 
of the bank, which is here dinning in my ears from morning to 
night ; that noise of crowns jingling, which are constantly being 
counted and re-counted, is odious to me. I only know one thing 
I dislike more, which is the sound of your voice.” 

44 Really!” said Danglars. 44 Well, this surprises me, for I 
thought you took the liveliest interest in my affairs ! Last Febru- 
ary you were the first who told me of the Haytian funds. You 
had dreamt that a ship had entered the harbor at Havre, and 
brought news that a payment France had looked upon as lost was 


308 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


going to be made. I know how clear-sighted your dreams are ' 1 
therefore purchased immediately as many shares as I could of the 
Haytian debt, and I gained 400,000 francs by it, of which 100,000 
have been honestly paid to you. You spent it as you pleased, that 
was your business. In March there was a question about a grant 
to a railway. Three companies presented themselves, each offer- 
ing equal securities. You told me that your instinct, — and al- 
though you pretend to know nothing about speculations, I think, 
on the contrary, that your comprehension is very clear upon cer- 
tain affairs, — well, you told me that your instinct led you to be-* 
lieve the grant would be given to the company called the South-* 
ern. I bought two-thirds of the shares of that company ; as you 
had foreseen, the shares became of triple value, and I picked up a 
million, from which 250,000 francs were paid to you for pin-money. 
How have you spent this 250,000 francs? — it is no business of 
mine.” 

When are you coming to the point?” cried the baroness, 
shivering with anger and impatience.. 44 Patience, madame, I am 
coming to it.” 

41 That’s fortunate ! ” 

44 In April you went to dine at the minister’s. You heard a 
private conversation respecting the affairs of Spain — on the ex- 
pulsion of Don Carlos. I bought some Spanish shares. The ex- 
pulsion took place and T pocketed 600,000 francs the day Charles 
V. repassed the Bidassoa. Of these 600,000 francs you took 50,- 

000 crowns. They were yours,, you disposed of them according 
to your fancy, and I asked no questions ; but it is not the less true 
that you have this year received 500,000 livres.” 

44 Well, sir, and what then ? ” 

44 Ah, yes, it was just after this that you spoiled everything ! u 

44 Really, your manner of speaking -” 

44 It expresses my meaning, and that is all I want. Well, three 
days after that you talked politics with M. Debray, and you fan- 
cied from his words that Don Carlos had returned to Spain. Well, 

1 sold my shares, the news was spread, and I no longer sold but 
gave them ; next day I find the telegraph had been tampered with, 
madame ! as if in order to spite me ! for by this accident or inten- 
tion, I lost 700,000 on the false news.” 

44 Well? ” 

44 Well ! since I gave you a fourth of my gains, I think you owe 
me a fourth of my losses : the fourth of 700,000 francs is 175,000 
francs.” 

44 What you say is absurd, and I cannot see why M. Debray’s 
name is mixed up in this affair.” 

44 Because if you do not possess the 175,000 francs I reclaim, 
you must have lent them to your friends, and M. Debray is one of 
your friends.” 

M For sname i ” exclaimed the baroness. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


309 


" Oh! let us have no gestures, no screams, no modern drama, 
we you will oblige me to tell you that I see Debray leave here, 
pocketing nearly the whole of the 500,000 livres you have handed 
over to him this year ; while he smiles to himself, saying, that he 
has found that which the most skilful players have never discov- 
ered that is, a game, where he wins without playing, and is no 

loser when he loses.” The baroness became enraged. “ Wretch ! ” 
she cried, “ will you dare to tell me you did not know what you 
now reproach me with ? ” 

“I do not say that I did know it, and I do not say that I did 
not know it. I have never interfered in your affairs, except- 
ing for your good ; treat me in the same way. You say you 
have nothing to do with my cash-box/ Be it so. Do as you like 
with your own, but do not fill or empty mine. Besides, how do I 
know that this was not a political trick ; that the minister, enraged 
at seeing me in the opposition, and jealous of the popular sympathy 
I excite, has not concerted with M. Debray to ruin me ? Who ever 
heard of such an occurrence as this? — A false telegraphic despatch 

it is almost impossible for signals to have been made different to 

those of the two last telegrams. It was done on purpose for me, 

I am sure of it.” 

• • Sir,” said the baroness, humbly, " are you not aware that the 
man employed there was dismissed, that they talked of prosecut- 
ing him, that orders were issued to arrest him, and that this 
order would have been put into execution if he had not escaped 
their researches by a flight which proves either his madness or his 
guilt? It was a mistake.” 

“ Yes, which made fools laugh, which caused the minister to 
have a sleepless night, and his secretaries to stain several sheets of 
paper, but which has cost me 700,000 francs.” 

•• But, sir,” said Hermine, suddenly, “ if all this is, as you say, 
caused by M. Debray, why, instead of going direct to him, do 
you come and tell me of it ? Why to accuse the man do you ad- 
dress the woman ? ’ * 

“ Do I know M. Debray? — do I wish to know him ? — do I wish 
to know that he gives advice? — do I wish to follow it? — do I 
speculate ? No ; you do all this, not I.” 

“ Still it seems to me that, as you profit by it ” 

Danglars shrugged his shoulders. “ Foolish creature,” he ex- 
claimed. “ Women fancy they have talent because they have 
managed two or three intrigues without being the talk of Paris ! 
But know that I see, and always have seen, during the last sixteen 
years. What has been the result ? — that, thanks to my pretended 
igorance, there are none of your friends, from Villefort to Debray, 
who has not trembled before me, the master of the house, — the 
only title I desire with respect to you. I will allow you to make 
me hateful ; but I will prevent your rendering me ridiculous, and, 
above all, I forbid you to ruin me.” 


3io 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


The baroness bad been \olerably composed until the name of 
Villefort had been pronounced ; but then she became pale 7 and, 
rising, as if touched by a spring, she stretched out her hands as 
though conjuring an apparition ; she then took two or three steps 
toward her husband, as though to tear the secret from him, of 
which he was ignorant, or which he withheld from some odious 
calculation, as all his calculations were. “ Villefort !— What do 
you mean ? ” 

“I mean that Nargonne, your first husband, being neither a 
philosopher nor a banker, or perhaps being both, and seeing there 
was nothing to be got out of a lawyer, died of grief or anger at 
finding, after an absence,of nine months, that you had been in a 
delicate state, six, I am brutal, — I not only allow it, but boast 
of it ; it is one of the reasons of my success in commercial busi- 
ness. Why did he kill himself instead of you ? Because he had 
no cash to save. My life belongs to my cash. M, Debray has 
made me lose 700,000 francs ; let him bear his share of the loss, 
and we will go on as before ; if not, let him become bankrupt for the 
250,000 livres, and do as all bankrupts do — disappear. He is a 
charming fellow, I allow, when his news is correct ; but when it 
is not, there are fifty others in fhe world who would do better 
than him.** 

Madame Danglars was rooted to the spot ; she made a violent 
effort to reply to this last attack ; but she fell upon a chair, think- 
ing of Villefort, of the dinner scene, of the strange series of mis- 
fortunes which had taken place in her house during the last few 
days, and changed the usual calm of her establishment to a scene 
of scandalous debate. 

The day following this scene, at the hour the banker usually 
chose to pay a visit to Mdme. Danglars, on his way to his office, 
his coupe did not appear in the yard. At this time, that is, about 
half-past twelve, Mdme. Danglars ordered her carriage, and went 
out. Danglars, placed behind a curtain, watched the departure 
he had been waiting for. He gave orders that he should be in- 
formed directly Mdme. Danglars appeared ;but at two o’clock she 
had not returned. He then called for his horses, drove to the 
Chamber, and inscribed his name to speak against the budget. 
From twelve to two o’clock Danglars had remained in his study, 
unsealing his despatches, and becoming more and more sad every 
minute, heaping figure upon figure, and receiving, among other 
visits, one from Major Cavalcanti, who, as stiff and as exact as 
ever, presented himself precisely at the hour named the night be- 
fore, to terminate his business with the banker. On leaving the 
Chamber, Danglars, who had shown violent marks of agitation 
during the sitting, and been more bitter than ever against the 
ministry, re-entered his carriage, and told the coachman to drive 
to the Avenue Champs-Elysees. 

Monte-Cristo was at home ; onlv he was engaged with some one. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


3H 


and begged Danglars to wait for a moment m the drawing-room. 
While the banker was waiting, the door opened, and a man 
dressed as a priest entered, who, doubtless more familiar with the 
house than he was, instead of waiting, merely bowed, and, pass- 
ing on to the further apartments, disappeared. A minute after 
the door by which the priest had entered re-opened, and Monte- 
Cristo appeared. “ Pardon me/’ saitl he, “ my dear baron, but 
one of my friends, the Abbe Busoni, whom you perhaps saw pass 
by, has just arrived in Paris ; not having seen him for a long time, 
I^could not make up my mind to leave him sooner, so I hope this 
will be sufficient reason for my having made you wait.” 

“Nay,” said Danglars, “it is my fault; I have chosen my 
visit at a wrong time, and will retire.” 

“Not at all ; on the contrary, be seated ; but what is the mat- 
ter with you? You look careworn ; have you had another fall at 

the Bourse? ” “ No ; I am safe for a few days at least. I am 

only annoyed about a bankrupt of Trieste.” 

“ Really ! Does it happen to be Jacopo Manfredi ? ” 

“Exactly so. Imagine a man who has transacted business 
with me for I do not know how long, to the amount of a million 
francs during the year. Never a mistake or delay : a fellow who 
paid like a prince. Well, I was a million in advance with him, 
and now my fine Manfredi suspends payment ! ” 

“This, with my Spanish blunder, made a pretty end to the 

month.” “ Then you really lost by that affair in Spain ? ” 

“ Yes ; only 700,000 francs ! — nothing more ! ” 

“ But making a million and a half in this month ! six more such 
months and you will be at the end of the purse ! ” 

“ Not at all, count ! I am embarked on nothing but sure affairs 
now,” replied Danglars, with the air of a mountebank trumpeting 
his own praises ; “ to involve me, three governments must crumble 
to dust.” 

“ So much the better, I congratulate you, my dear M. Dang- 
lars,” said Monte-Cristo ; “ I see I was deceived, and that you be- 
long to the class next to first-rate fortunes.” 

“ I think I may aspire to that honor,” said Danglars with a 
smile, which reminded Monte-Cristo of one of those sickly moons 
which bad artists are so fond of daubing into their pictures of 
rains; “but, while we are speaking of business,” he added, 
pleased to find an opportunity of changing the subject, “ tell me 
what I am to do for M. Cavalcanti.” 

“Give him money, if he is recommended to you, and the 
recommendation seems good.” 

“ Excellent ! he presented himself this morning with a bond of 
4.0,000 francs, payable at sight, on you, signed by Busoni, and re- 
turned by you to me, with your indorsement ; of course, I imme- 
diately counted him over the forty bank-notes.” 

Monte-Cristo nodded his head in token of assent. “ But that is 


312 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO c 


not all,” continued Danglars; 44 he has opened an account with 
my house for his son.” 

44 May I ask how much he allows the young man ? ” 

44 Five thousand francs per month/’ 

44 Sixty thousand francs per year. I thought I was right in be- 
lieving that Cavalcanti to be a stingy fellow. How can a young 
man live upon 5,000 francs a month ? ” 

44 But you understand that if the young man should want a few 
thousand more ” 

84 Do not advance it ; the father will never repay it ; you do not 
know these ultramontane millionaires ; they are regular misers. 
And by whom were they recommended to you ? ” 

44 Oh, by the house of Fenzi, one of the best in Florence.” 

“ I do not mean to say you will lose, but, nevertheless, mind you 
hold to the terms of the agreement.” 

'• Would you not trust the Cavalcanti ! ” 

4t I? oh, I would advance six millions on his signature. I was 
only speaking in reference to the second-rate fortunes we were 
mentioning just now.” 

44 And with all this, how plain he is ! I should never have taken 
him for anything more than a mere major.” 

44 And you would have flattered him, for certainly, as you say, 
he has no manners. The first time I saw him he appeared to me 
like an old lieutenant grown mouldy under the epaulet. But all 
the Italians are the same ; they are like old Jews when they are 
not glittering in Oriental splendor.” 

44 The young man is better,” said Danglars. 44 Ah, I believe 
noblemen marry amongst themselves, do they not ? ” asked Dang- 
lars, carelessly ; 44 they like to unite their fortunes.” 

44 It is usual, certainly ; but Cavalcanti is an original who does 
nothing like other people. I cannot help thinking he has brought 
his son to France to choose a wife.” 

44 And you have heard his fortune mentioned ? ” 44 Nothing 

else was talked of ; only some said he was worth millions, and 
others that he did not possess a sou.” 

44 And what is your opinion ? ” 44 That all these old lieutenant- 

governors, and ancient free-lances for the Cavalcanti have com- 
manded armies and governed provinces, — have buried their mill* 
ions in nooks, the secret of which they have only transmitted to 
their eldest sons, who have done the same from generation to 
generation, and the proof of this is seen in their yellow and dry 
appearance, like the florins of the Italian republics, which, from 
being constantly gazed upon, have become reflected in them.” 

44 Certainly,” said Danglars, 44 and this is further supported by 
the fact of their not possessing an inch of land.” 

44 Very little, at least ; I know of none which Cavalcanti possesses, 
excepting his palace in Lucca.” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


313 


“Ah? he has a palace? ' said Danglars, laughing : “come, 
that is something.” 

«« Yes ; and more than that, he lets it to the Minister of Finances 
while he lives in a rented house. Oh ! as I told you before, I 
think the good man very close ! ” 

“ Come, you do not flatter him.” 

“ I scarcely know him ; I think I have seen him three times in 
my life ; all I know relating to him is through Busoni and himself ; 
he was telling me this morning that, tired of letting his property 
lie dormant in Italy, a dead nation, he wished to find a method, 
either in France or England, of multiplying his millions ; but re- 
member, that though I place great confidence in Busoni, I am not 
responsible for this.” 

“ Never mind ; accept my thanks for the client you have sent 
me : it is a fine name to inscribe on my lips, and my cashier was 
quite proud of it when I explained to him who the Cavalcanti 
were. By the way, this is merely a simple question, when these 
kind of people marry their sons, must they give them any for- 
tune ?” 

“ Oh, that depends upon circumstances. I know an Italian 
prince, rich as a gold mine, one of the noblest families in Tuscany, 
who, when his sons married according to his wish, gave them 
millions ; and when they married against his consent, mere allowed 
them thirty crowns a month. Should Andrea marry according to 
his father’s views, he will, perhaps, give him one, two, or three 
millions. For example, supposing it were the daughter of a 
banker, he might take an interest in the house of the father-in-law 
of his son ; then again, if he disliked his choice, the major takes 
the key, double-locks his coffer, and Master Andrea would be 
obliged to live like the younger son of an English peer, by shuff- 
ling cards or rattling dice.” 

“ Ah! that boy will find out some Bavarian or Peruvian prin- 
cess ; he will want a crown and an immense fortune.” 

“No ; these grand lords on the other side of the Alps frequently 
marry into plain families ; like Jupiter, they like to cross the race. 
But do you wish to marry Andrea, my dear M. Danglars, that 
you are asking so many questions ? ” 

“ Faith ! ” said Danglars, “it would not be a bad speculation, 
I fancy, and you know I am a speculator.” 

“ You are not thinking of Mdlle. Danglars, I hope ; you would 
not like poor Andrea to have his throat cut by Albert ? ” 

“Albert ! ” repeated Danglars, shrugging his shoulders ; “ ah, 
yes ; he would care very little about it, I think.” 

“ But he is betrothed to your daughter, I believe, whose fortune 
will be great, no doubt, especially if the telegraph should not 
make any more mistakes. ” 

“ Oh ! I do not mean her fortune only ; but tell me, why did 
you not invite the Morcerfs to your dinner? M 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


3*4 

11 1 did so, but the count excused himself on account of Mdme , 
de Morcerf being obliged to go to Dieppe for the benefit of sea air.*' 

14 Yes, yes,” said Danglars, laughing, 44 it would do her a great 
deal of good.” 

44 Why so?” 

44 Because it is the air she always breathed in her youth.” 
Monte-Cristo took no notice of this ill-natured remark. 

44 But still, if Albert be not so rich as Mdlle. Danglars,” said 
the count, 44 you must allow that he has a fine name? ” 

44 Look, at my coat-of-arms, it is worth more than Morcerf ’s.” 

4 ‘ Why so?” 

44 Because, though I am not a baron by birth, my real name is, 
at least, Danglars, while his name is not Morcerf. I have been 
made a baron, so that I actually am one ; he made himself a 
count, so that he is not one at all.” 

44 Impossible ! ” 44 Listen, my dear count ; Morcerf has been my 
friend, or rather my acquaintance, during the last thirty years. 
You know I have made the most of my arms, though I never for- 
got my origin.” 

44 A proof of great humility or great pride/’ said Monte-Cristo. 
44 Weli, when I was a clerk, Morcerf was a mere fisherman, one 
Johnny Newcomes, Fernand Mondego. I have bought enough 
fish of him to know his name.” - 

44 Then, why did you think of giving your daughter to him ? ” 
44 Because Fernand and Danglars, being about, both having be- 
come noble, both rich, are both equal in worth, excepting that 
there have been things mentioned of him never said of me.” 

44 Ah, yes ! what you tell me recalls to mind something about 
the name of Mondego. I have heard that name in Greece.” 

44 In conjunction with the affairs of Ali Pacha?” 

44 Exactly so.” 44 This is the mystery,” said Danglars, 44 1 

acknowledge I would have given anything to find it out.” 

44 Probably you have some correspondent in Greece?” 

44 1 should think so.” 

44 Well, write to your correspondent, and ask him what part was 
played by a Frenchman named Fernand Mondego in the catas- 
trophe of Ali Tobelen.” 

44 You are right,” exclaimed Danglars, rising quickly, 44 1 will 
write to-day.” 

44 And if you should hear of anything very scandalous — ” 

44 1 will communicate it to you.” 

44 You will oblige me.” Danglars rushed out of the room, and 
made but one leap into his carriage. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR1STO. 


315 


CHAPTER XLIV. 

THE OFFICE OF THE PROSECUTOR GENERAL* 

Let us leave the banker driving his horses at their fullest speed, 
and follow Mdme. Danglars in her morning excursion to the 
Palace of Justice. 

There was a great press of people in M. de Villefort’s ante- 
chamber ; but Mdme. Danglars had no occasion even to pro- 
nounce her name ; the instant she appeared the doorkeeper con- 
ducted her by a private passage to Villefort’s office. The magis- 
trate was seated in an arm-chair, writing, with his back toward 
the door ; he heard it open, and the door-keeper pronounce the 
words, “Walk in, madame,” and then re-close it, without mov- 
ing ; but no sooner had the man’s footsteps ceased, then he started 
up, drew the bolts, closed the curtains, and examined every cor- 
ner of the room. Then, when he had assured himself that he 
could neither be seen nor heard, and was consequently relieved of 
doubts, he said, — “Thanks, madame, — thanks for your punc- 
tuality ; ” and he offered a chair to Mdme. Danglars, which she 
accepted, for her heart beat so violently that she felt nearly suffo- 
cated. 

“ It is a long time, madame/ ’ said the proctor, describing a 
half-circle with his chair, so as to place himself exactly opposite to 
Madame Danglars, — “ since I had the pleasure of speaking alone 
with you ; and I regret that we have only now met to enter upon 
a painful conversation.” 

“ Nevertheless, sir, you see I have answered your first appeal ; 
although certainly, the conversation must be much more painful 
for me than for you.” Villefort smiled bitterly. 

“ Sir,” said Mdme. Danglars, “ you can feel for my emotion, 
can you not ? Spare me then, I beseech you. When I look at 
this room, whence so many guilty creatures have departed trem- 
bling and ashamed — when I look at that chair before which I now 
sit trembling and ashamed, oh ! it requires all my reason to con- 
vince me that I am not a very guilty woman and you a men- 
acing judge.” 

Villefort dropped his head, and sighed. “And I,” he said, 
“ I feel that my place is not in the judge’s seat, but on the pris- 
oner’s.” 

“ I think, sir, you exaggerate your situation,” said Mdme. 
Danglars, whose beautiful eyes sparkled for a moment. “The 


Jl6 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


paths of which you were just speaking have been traced by all 
young men of ardent imaginations. Besides the pleasure there is 
always remorse, from the indulgence of our passions ; and, after 
all, what have you men to fear from all this ; the world excuses, 
and notoriety ennobles you? ” 

44 Madame,’* replied Villefort, 44 you know that I am no hypo- 
crite, or, at least, that I never deceive without a reason. If my 
brow be severe, it is because many misfortunes have clouded it ; 
if my heart be petrified, it is that it might sustain the blows it has 
received. Women, on the contrary, are rarely tormented with re- 
morse ; for the decision does not come from you ; your misfor- 
tunes are generally imposed upon you, and your faults the result 
of other’s crimes.” 

44 In any case, sir, you will allow,” replied Mdme. Danglars, 
• 4 that, even if the fault were alone mine, I last night received a 
severe punishment for it.” 

44 Poor thing ! ” said Villefort, pressing her hand, 44 it was too 
severe for your strength, for you were twice overwhelmed, and 
yet collect all your courage, for you have not heard all ! ” 

44 Ah ! ” exclaimed Mdme. Danglars, alarmed, 44 what is there 
more to hear ? ” 

44 You only look back to the past ; and it is, indeed, bad enough. 
Well, picture to yourself a future more gloomy still — certainly 
frightful, perhaps sanguinary!” The baroness knew how calm 
Villefort naturally was, and his present excitement frightened her 
so much that she opened her mouth to scream, but the sound died 
in her throat. 44 How has this terrible past been recalled? ” cried 
Villefort. 

44 Alas ! ” said Hermine, 44 doubtless it is chance ! Was it not 
by chance the Count of Monte-Cristo bought this house ? Caused 
the earth to be dug ? The unfortunate child disinterred under the 
trees ? That poor innocent offspring of mine, which I never even 
kissed, but for whom I wept many, many tears. Ah, my heart 
flew to the count when he mentioned the dear spoil found beneath 
the flowers.” 

44 Well, no, madame ! — -this is the terrible news I have to tell 
you,” said Villefort, in a hollow voice — 44 no, nothing was found 
beneath the flowers ; there was*no child disinterred — no ! You 
must not weep, no, you must not groan, you must tremble ! ” 

44 What can you mean? ” asked Mdme. Danglars, shuddering. 

44 1 mean that Monte-Cristo, digging underneath these trees, 
found neither skeleton nor chest, because neither of them was 
there ! ” 

44 Then you did not bury the poor child there, sir ? Why did 
you deceive me ? Where did you place it ? tell me — where ? ” 

44 There! But listen to me! You recollect that sad night, 
when you were half expiring on that bed in the red damask room, 
while I, scarcely less agitated than you, awaited your delivery. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


in 

The child was born, was given to me — without movement, with- 
out breath, without voice, we thought it dead.” Mdme. Dang- 
lars moved rapidly, as though she would spring from her chair \ 
but Villefort stopped, and clasped his hands as if to implore her 
attention. “ We thought it dead,” he repeated ; 44 I placed it in 
the chest, which was to take the place of a cofhn ; I descended to 
the garden, I dug a hole, and then flung it down in haste. Scarcely 
had I covered it with mold, when the arm of the Corsican was 
stretched toward me ; I saw a shadow rise, and, at the same 
lime, a flash of light. I felt pain ; I wished to cry out, but an icy 
shiver ran through my veins and stifled my voice ; I fell lifeless, 
and fancied myself killed. Never shall I forget your sublime 
courage, when, having returned to consciousness, I dragged my- 
self to the foot of the stairs, where, expiring yourself, you came to 
meet me. We were obliged to keep silent upon the dreadful ca- 
tastrophe. You had the fortitude to regain the house, assisted by 
your nurse. A duel was the pretext for my wound. Though we 
scarcely expected it, our secret remained in our own keeping 
alone. I was taken to Versailles ; for three months I struggled 
with death ; at last, as I seemed to cling to life, I was ordered to 
the South. Four men carried me from Paris to Chalons, walking 
six leagues a day. Mdme. de Villefort followed the litter in her 
carriage. At Marseilles, my recovery lasted six months. I never 
heard you mentioned, and I did not dare inquire for you. When 
I returned to Paris, I learned that, widow of M. de Nargonne, you 
had married M. Danglars. 

44 What had been the subject of my thoughts ever since con- 
sciousness had returned to me ? Always the same — always the 
child’s corpse, which, every night in my dreams, rising from the 
earth, fixed itself above the grave with a menacing look and ges- 
ture. I inquired immediately on my return to Paris : the house 
had not been inhabited since we left it, but it had just been let for 
nine years. I found the tenant. I pretended that I disliked the 
idea of a house belonging to my wife’s father and mother passing 
into the hands of strangers. I had money with me ; I made the 
tenant sign a cancelling deed, and I galloped to Auteuil. No one 
had entered the house since I had left it. It was five o’clock in 
the afternoon ; I ascended in the red room, and waited for night. 
It was necessary, before everything else, and at all risks, that I 
should cause all traces of the past to disappear — destroy every 
material vestige : too much reality would always remain in my 
recollection. At length, one by one, all the noises in the neigh- 
boring country ceased. I understood that I had nothing to fear, 
that I should neither be seen nor heard, so I decided upon de- 
scending to the garden. 

44 I recollected that I was stabbeu just as I was trampling the 
ground to fill up the hole ; while doing so, I had leaned against a 
tree ; behind me was an artificial rock, intended to serve as a 


3 1 8 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

resting-place for persons walking in the garden ; in falling, mv 
hand, relaxing its hold of the tree, felt the coldness of this storn?. 
On my right I saw the tree, behind me the rock. I stood in t tie 
same attitude, and threw myself down. I rose, and again began 
digging and enlarging the hole ; still I found nothing, nothing — 
the chest was no longer there ! ” 

44 Oh,” cried Mdme. Danglars, 44 it was enough to drive you 
mad ! ” 

44 1 hoped for a moment that it might/* said Villefort ; 41 but 
that happiness was denied me. However, recovering my strength 
and my ideas, 4 Why/ said I, 4 should that man have carried 
away the corpse ? ’ ” 

44 But you said/’ replied Mdme. Danglars, 44 he would require it 
as a proof? ” 

44 Ah, no, madame, that could not be. Dead bodies are not 
kept a year ; they are shown to a magistrate, and the evidence is 
taken. Now, nothing of the kind has happened.” 

44 What then ? ” asked Hermine, trembling violently. 

44 Something more terrible, more fatal, more alarming for us f — - 
the child was, perhaps, alive, and the assassin may have saved it ! ” 

Mdme. Danglars uttered a piercing cry, and, seizing Villefort’s 
hands, exclaimed, 4 ‘ My child was alive!” said she; 44 you 
buried my child alive, sir! You were not certain my child was 
dead, and you buried it. Ah ” 

Mdme. Danglars had arisen, and stood before the proctor whose 
hands she wrung in her feeble grasp. 44 You understand, then, 
that if that were so,” said he, rising in his turn, and approaching 
the baroness, to speak to her in a lower tone, 44 we are lost. This 
child lives, and some one knows it lives — some one is in posses- 
sion of our secret ; and since Monte-Cristo speaks before us of a 
child disinterred, when that child could not be found, it is he who 
is in possession of our secret.” 

44 Just God, avenging God! ” murmured Mdme. Danglars. 

Villefort’s only answer was a species of groan. 

44 But the child — the child, sir? ’* repeated the agitated mother. 

44 That corsican had put it in the foundling hospital. I learned 
that the same night — the 20th of September — a child had been 
brought there, wrapped in part of a fine linen napkin, purposely torn 
in half. This portion of the napkin was marked with half a bar, 
on’s crown, and the letter H.” 

44 Truly, truly,” said Mdme. Danglars, 44 all my linen is marked 
thus : Nargonne was a baronet, and my name is Hermine. Thank 
God ! my boy was not then dead.” 

44 Where is the child ? ” 

Villefort shrugged his shoulders. 44 Do I know?” said he; 
44 and do you believe that if I knew I would relate to you all its 
trials and all its adventures as would a novelist? Alas! no. I 
know neh A woman, about six months after* came to elam K 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRZSTO. 319 


with the other half of the napkin. This woman gave all the req* 
uisite particulars, and it was intrusted to her.*’ 

“ But you should have inquired for the woman ; you should 

have traced her.” “And what do you think I did? I feigned 

a criminal, and employed all the most acute bloodhounds and skil- 
ful agents in search of her. They traced her to Chalons, and 
there they lost her. 5 * 

“'They lost her ? ” 

44 Yes, for ever.” 

14 But now I will begin with more perseverance and fury than 
ov&amp;r, since fear urges me, not my conscience.” 

4J But,” replied Mdme. Danglars, 44 the count of Monte-Cristo 
can know nothing, or he would not seek our society as he does.” 
44 Oh, the wickedness of man is very great,” said Villefort, 
44 since it surpasses the goodness of God. In less than one week 
from this time I will ascertain who this Monte-Cristo is, whence he 
comes, where he goes, and why he speaks in our presence of chil- 
dren which have been disinterred in a garden.” Villefort pro- 
nounced these words with an accent which would have made the 
count shudder had he heard him. Then he pressed the hand the 
baroness reluctantly gave him, and led her respectfully back to 
the door. Mdme. Danglars returned in another hackney-coach to 
to the passage, on the other end of which she found her carriage, 
and her coachman sleeping peacefully on his box while waiting for 
her. 

The Royal prosecutor was of the opinion that no one is so well 
served as the man who acts for himself. So he disguised himself 
as a detective of his own force and proceeded with inquiries about 
the mysterious Sicillian noble. From Boville he learnt that the 
count was well known to a priest named Busoni and an English 
nobleman named Lord Wilmore. The latter was now and then in 
Paris, and the father also came to consult books in the royal 
library as he was an Orientalist of repute. 

The police-card which Villefort carried gained him an audience 
of Father Busoni. The latter freely said that he knew the count 
from before he bought a title in Italy and the Islet of Monte- 
Cristo, as he had to have land to enjoy the count-ship. He was 
one Zaccone, son of a wealthy Genoese ship-builder. He knew* 
did the abbe, that the count was supposed to have him as his con- 
fessor, but it was not so : Monte-Cristo, he was sorry to say, was 
not a Catholic. Still he was a philanthropist on whom the Pope 
looked favorably — a sort of Quaker who did not wear the drab. 

Busoni added that he believed Monte-Cristo had never before 
been in Paris, and as he was not sure of coming himself, he had 
entreated him to look after the Cavalcantis or at least the father. 

He concluded by saying that his friend had bought the Auteuil 
house to turn it into a lunatic asylum for foreigners, demented in 
the French capital. 


320 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRiSTO . 


Lord Wilmore happened also to be in town. Villefort found him 
accessible enough, in stylish lodgings. He was not eager to air 
his French but the caller knew English. He was more communi- 
cative than the priest for he had no good feelings toward the 
Count of Monte-Cristo. He had fought against him in India, 
during wars between the pretty princess, and had met again while 
the Greeks were struggling for their independence. In this rebel- 
lion, Zaccone discovered a silver mine in Thessaly where he had 
disinterred his fortune, a million or two of francs, precariously ob- 
tained and continued. 

He thought that the count was fooling away his time and money 
;:n the Auteuil speculation as he believed that he would strike 
mineral springs there. 

“I hope that he will be ruined by that speculation and the 
others he is entangled with.” 

The cause of this feud was Monte-Cristo* s seducing a wife of a 
friend of his, and they had fought three duels. He showed that 
the wound received in the latest encounter was not yet healed. 
He was now practising shooting with a fashionable teacher and 
hoped to kill him next time. 

In consequence Villefort returned home in so pleasant a mood 
that he slept that night soundly for the first time since the dinner- 
party. 


CHAPTER XLV. 

THE BALL. 

It was in the warmest days of July, when, the Saturday arrived 
upon which the ball of M. de Morcerf was to take place. 

At the time the Countess de Morcerf returned to the rooms, 
after giving her orders, many guests were arriving, more attracted 
by the charming hospitality of the countess than by the distin- 
guished position of the count ; for, owing to a good taste of Mer- 
cedes, one was sure of finding some arrangements worthy of re- 
lating, or even copying in case of need. Mdme. Danglars came, 
not only beautiful in person, but radiant with splendor; she 
entered by one door at the same time Mercedes appeared at the 
other. The countess took Albert to meet Mdme. Danglars. He 
approached, paid her some well-merited compliments on her toilet, 
and offered his arm to conduct her to a seat. Albert looked around 
him. " You are looking for my daughter?” said the baroness, 
smiling. 

11 1 confess it,** replied Albert. “ Could you have been so cruel 
as not to bring her? M 


THE COUNT OF MONTE C RIF TO , 


%2l 


«• Cairn yourself. She has met Mdlle, de Villefort, and has takes’ 
her arm ; see, they are following us, both in white dresses, one 
with a bouquet of camellias, the other with one of myosotis. But 

tell me ■ *— — “ Well, what do you wish to know ? ” 

“ Will not the Count of Monte-Cristo be here to-night ? ” 

“ Seventeen ! ” replied Albert. “ What do you mean ? ” 

° I only mean that the count seems the rage,” replied the vis* 
count, smiling, “and that you are the seventeenth person that 
a^ked me the same question. The count is in fashion ; I congratu- 
late him upon it.” 

41 And have you replied to every one as you have to me?” 

Ah ! to be sure, I have not answered you ; be satisfied, wa 
shill have this * lion ; ’ we are among the privileged ones.” 

Albert bowed to Mdme. Danglars, and advanced towards 
Mdme. de Villefort, whose lips opened as he approached. 44 I 
wager anything,” said Albert, interrupting her, “that I know 
what you were going to ask me if the count of Monte-Cristo were 
arrived, or expected.” 

“ Not at all It is not of him that I am now thinking. I was 
going to ask you if you had received any news of Franz? ” 

“ He was leaving for home at the same time as his letter.” 

“ Well, now then, the count ? ” 

“The count will come, be satisfied.” 

“ You know that he has another name besides Monte-Cristo? 
That is the name of an island, and he has a family name.” 

“Well! I’m sure,” said Morcerf ; “ that is indeed news ! Am 

I allowed to repeat it?” “ Yes, but cautiously ; tell one thing 

at a time, and do not say I told you.” 

“ Why so ? ”— — “ Because it is a secret just discovered.” 

“ By whom ? ” “ The police.” 

“ Then the news originated ” 

*' At the prefect’s last night. Paris, you can understand, is 
astonished at the sight of such unusual splendor, and the police 

have made inquiries.” “ Good ! nothing more is wanting than 

to arrest the count as a vagabond, on the pretext of his being too 
rich.” 

“Indeed, this would doubtless have happened if his credentials 

had not been so favorable.” “ Poor count ! And is he aware of 

the danger he has been in ? ” 

“I think not.” “Then it will be but charitable to infonfe 

him. When he arrives, I will not fail to do so.” 

Just then, a handsome young man, with bright eyes, black hair* 
^rd glossy moustache, respectfully bowed to Mdme. de Villefort 
Albert extended him his hand. “ Madame,” said Albert, “ allow 
tne to present to you M. Maximilian Morrel, captain of Spahis, 
One of our best, and, above all, of our bravest officers.” 

44 I have already had the pleasure of meeting this gentleman at 
Auteuil, at Monte-Cristo House/* replied Mdme, de Villefort, 


THE COUNT OE MONTE CIVS TO. 


\2t 

turning away with marked coldness of manner. This answes 
and, above all, the tone in which it was uttered, chilled the hean 
of poor Morrel. But a recompense was in store for him : turning 
round, he saw near the door a beautiful fair face, whose large blue 
eyes were, without any marked expression, fixed upon him, while 
the bouquet of myosotis was gently raised to her lips. The Count 
of Monte-Cristo had just entered. We have already said that 
there was something in the count which attracted universal atten- 
tion wherever he appeared. Yet the Parisian world is so strange, 
that even this might not have won attention, had there not been, 
besides this, a mysterious story gilded by an immense fortune. 

Meanwhile he advanced through the crowd of curious glances 
and exchange of salutations towards Mdme. de Morcerf, who, 
standing before a mantlepiece ornamented with flowers, had seen 
his entrance in a looking-glass placed opposite the door, and was 
prepared to receive him. She turned towards him with a serene 
smile just at the moment he was bowing to her. No doubt she 
fancied the count would speak to her, while on his side the count 
thought she was about to address him ; but both remained silent, 
and after a mere bow, Monte-Cristo directed his steps to Albert, 
who received him cordially. Just then the count felt his arm 
jogged. He turned round ; it was Danglars. 

“ Ah ! is it you, baron? ” said he. 

“Why do you call me baron ?” said Danglars; “you know 
that I care nothing for my title. I am not like you, viscount ; 
you like your title, do you not?” 

“Certainly,” replied Albert, “seeing thai without my title I 
should be nothing ; while you, sacrificing the baron, would still 
remain the millionaire.” 

“Which seems to me the finest title under the royalty,” re- 
plied Danglars. 

“ Unfortunately,” said Monte-Cristo, “ one’s title to a millionaire 
does not last for life, like that of baron, peer of France 
or academician ; for example, the millionaires Frank Poulmann, 
of Frankfort, just become bankrupts. 

“ Indeed ! ” said Danglars, becoming pale. 

“ Yes ; I received the news this evening by a courier. I had 
about a million in their hands, but, warned in time, I withdrew 
it a month ago.” 

“ Ah,” exclaimed Danglars, “ they have drawn on me for 200,^ 
000 francs ! * ’ 

“Whew ! ” said Monte-Cristo, “here are 200,000 francs gone 
after — — ” 

“ Hush! do not mention business ! "said Danglars; then, approach" 
ing Monte-Cristo, he added, “especially before young Caval- 
canti ; ” after which he smiled, and turned toward the young man in 
question. Albert had left the count to speak to his mother, Dang- 
ers to converse with young Cavalcanti ; Monte-Cristo was for a u 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


323 


instant alone. Meanwhile the heat became excessive. The foot- 
men were hastening through the rooms with waiters loaded with 
ices. Monte-Cristo wiped the perspiration from his forehead, 
but drew back when the waiter was presented to him ; he took 
no refreshment. Mdme. de Morcerf lost not sight of Monte- 
Cristo; she saw that he took nothing, and even noticed the 
movement with which he withdrew from it. 

“Albert/’ she asked, “did you notice that?” “ What* 

mother? ” 

“That the count will never accept an invitation to dine with 
us.” 

“ Yes ; but then he breakfasted with me — indeed, he made his 
first appearance in the world on that occasion.” 

“But your house is not M. de Morcerf’s,” murmured Mer- 
cedes ; “ and since he has been here I have watched him.” 

“ Well ? ” “ Well, he has taken nothing yet.” 

“The count is very temperate.” Mercedes smiled sadly. 
“Approach him,” said she, “and the next waiter that passes, in- 
sist upon his taking something.” 

“ It is a way of assuring me that his absence was intended.” 
A minute afterwards the blinds were thrown open, and through 
the jessamine and clematis that overhung the window might be 
seen the garden ornamented with lanterns, and the supper laid 
under the tent. Dancers, players, talkers, all uttered an ex- 
clamation of joy — every one inhaled with delight the breeze that 
floated in. At the same time, Mercedes reappeared, paler than 
before, but with that immovable expression of countenance which 
she sometimes wore. She went straight to the group of which 
her husband formed the centre. “ Do not detain these gentle- 
men here, count,” she said; “they would prefer, I should think, 
to breathe in the garden rather than suffocate here, since they 

are not playing.” “Ah,” said a gallant old general, “we 

will not go alone to the garden.” 

“Then,” said Mercedes, “I will lead the way.” Turning 
toward Monte-Cristo, she added, “ Count, will you oblige mewith 
your arm?” The count almost staggered at these simple words ; 
then he fixed his eyes on Mercedes. It was but the glance of a 
moment, but it seemed to the countess to have lasted for a 
century, so much was expressed in that one look. He offered 
his arm to the countess ; she leaned upon it, or rather just 
touched it with her little hand, and they together descended the 
9teps, hedged with rhododendrons and camellias. Behind them, by 
another outlet, twenty persons rushed into the garden with loud 
exclamations of delight. 

Mdme. de Morcerf entered an archway of trees with her com- 
panion. 

The count looked at Mercedes as if to interrogate her, but 
she continued walking in silence ; on Ills side, Monte-Cristo also 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


3 2 4 

said nothing. They reached a building, ornamented with mag- 
nificent fruits, which ripened in the artificial temperature. The 
countess left the arm of Monte-Cristo, and gathered a bunch of 
Muscatel grapes. “See, count,” she said, with a smile, so sad in. 
its expression that one could almost see the tears on her eye- 
lids — “see, our French grapes are not to be compared, I know, 
with yours of Sicily and Cyprus, but you will make allowance’ 
for our northern sun.” The count bowed, but stepped back. 

Do you refuse? ” said Mercedes, in a tremulous voice. “ Pray 
excuse me, madam / 9 replied Monte-Cristo, “but I never eat 
Muscatel grapes.” 

“ Count,” added Mercedes, with a supplicating glance, “ there 
iis a beatiful Arabian custom, which makes eternal friends of 
those who have together eaten bread and salt beneath the same * 
roof.’ 9 — — “ I know it, madame,” replied the count ; “ but we are 
in France, and not in Arabia; and in France eternal friendships 
are as rare as the custom of dividing bread and salt with one 
another.” 

“But,” said the countess, breathlessly, with her eyes fixed on 
Monte-Cristo, whose arm she convulsively pressed with both 
hands, “we are friends, are we not?” The count became pale 
as death, the blood rushed to his heart, and then again rising, 
dyed his cheeks with crimson ; his eyes swam like those of a 
man suddenly dazzled. “ Certainly, we are friends,” he replied ; 
“why should we not be such?” The answer was so little like 
the one Mercedes desired, that she turned away to give vent to 
a sigh, which sounded more like a groan. “Thank you,” she 
said. And they recommenced walking. They went the whole 
iength of the garden without uttering a word. “ Sir,” suddenly 
exclaimed the countess, after their walk had continued ten min- 
utes in silence, “is it true that you have seen so much, traveled 
so far, and suffered so deeply ? ” 

“ My present happiness equals my past misery,” said the count. 

“ Are you not married? ” asked the countess. “I, married! ” 
exclaimed Monte-Cristo, shuddering ; “who could have told yon 
so?” 

“ No one told me you were ; but you have frequently been seen 

at the Opera with a young and lovely person.” “ She is a 

slave whom I bought at Constantinople, madame, the daughter 
of a prince. I have adopted her as my daughter, having no one 
else to love in the world.” 

“ How can you exist thus, without any one to attach you t© 
life?” 

“ It is not my fault, madame. At Malta, I loved a young girl, 
was on the point of marrying her, when war came and carried 
me av/ay. I thought she loved me well enough to wait for me, 
and even to remain faithful to my grave. When I returned she 
was married. This is the story of most men who have passed 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 


325 


rwenty. Perhaps my heart was weaker than those of the generality 
and I suffered more than they would have done in my place ; 
you know all.” The countess stopped for a moment, as if gasp- 
ing for breath. “Yes,” she said, "and you have still preserved 
this love in your heart — one can only love once — and have you for- 
given her for all she has made you suffer ? ” 

“ Yes, I have pardoned her." 

“ But only her ; do you, then, still hate those who separated 
you?” 

“I hate them? not at all; why should I?” The countess 
placed herself before Monte-Cristo, still holding in her hand a 
portion of the grapes. “Take some,” she said. “Madame, I 
never eat Muscatel grapes,” replied Monte-Cristo, as if the sub- 
ject had not been mentioned before. The countess dashed the 
grapes into the nearest thicket, with a gesture of despair. “ In- 
dexible man!” she murmured. Monte-Cristo remained as un- 
moved as if the reproach had not been addressed to him. Albert 
at this moment ran in. “ Oh, mother! ” he exclaimed, ,c such a 
misfortune ! ” 

“ M. de Villefort comes to fetch his wife and daughter.” 

“Madame de Saint-Meran is just arrived in Paris, bringing the 
news of her husband’s death which took place on the first stage 
after he left Marseilles. Madame de Villefort, who was in very 
good spirits, would neither believe nor think of the misfortune ; 
but Mdme. Valentine, at the first words, guessed the whole truth, 
notwithstanding all the precautions of her father ; the blow struck 
her like a thunderbolt, and she fell senseless. He was her grand- 
father on the mother’s side. He was coming here to hasten her 
marriage with Franz.” 

Ah, indeed ! ” 

She took two or three steps forward. Monte-Cristo watched 
her with an air so thoughtful, and so full of affectionate admira- 
tion, that she returned, taking his hand ; at the same time she 
grasped her son’s, and joined them together. 

“ We are friends ; are we not? ” she asked. 

“ Oh, madanie, I do not presume to call myself your friend, 
but all times lam your most respectful servant.” The countess 
left with an indescribable pang in her heart, and before she had 
taken ten steps the count saw her raise her handkerchief to her 
eyes. “ Do not my mother and you agree?” asked Albert, as- 
tonished. 

“On the contrary,” replied the count, “did you not hear her 
declare that we were friends?” They re-entered the drawing* 
room, which Valentine and Madame de Villefort had justguitteds 
Monte-Cristo departed almost .at t he same time. 


326 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


CHAPTER XLVI. 

JOY AND SORROW. 

A gloomy scene had indeed just passed at Villefort’s. After 
the ladies had departed for the ball, the functionary had, as usual, 
shut himself up in his study, with a heap of papers calculated to 
alarm any one else, but which generally scarcely satisfied his 
inordinate desires. But this time the papers were a mere matter 
of form. Villefort had secluded himself, to study notes, precious 
documents, amongst which he had carefully arranged, in cipher 
only known to himself, the names of all those become his ene- 
mies. Their number was formidable, now that he had begun to 
fear, and yet these names, powerful though they were, had often 
caused him to smile with the same kind of satisfaction ex- 
perienced by a traveler who, from the summit of a mountain, 
beholds at his feet the sharp peaks, the almost impassable paths, 
and the ridges over which he has so perilously climbed. When 
he had run over all these names in his memory, again read and 
studied them, commenting meanwhile upon his lists, he shook his 
head. 

“No!” he murmured, “none of my enemies would have 
waited so patiently and laboriously for so long a space of time, 
that they might now come and crush me with this secret. Some® 
times, as Hamlet says — 

“ Deeds will rise, 

Tho’ all the earth o’erwhelm them, to men’s eyes ; ’* 

but, like a phosphoric light, they rise but to mislead. The story 
has been told by the Corsican to some priest, who, in his turn, 
has also repeated it. M. de Monte-Cristo may have heard it, and 
to enlighten himself — but why should he wish to enlighten himself 
upon the subject?” asked Villefort, after a moment’s reflection, 
** what interest can this Monte-Cristo, or Zaccone, son of a ship- 
owner of Malta, discoverer of a mine in Thessaly, now visiting 
Paris for the first time — take in discovering a gloomy, mysterious, 
and useless fact like this ? However, amidst all the incoherent de- 
tails given to me by Abbe Busoni and by Lord Wilmore, by his 
friend and his enemy, one thing appears certain and clear in m/ 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 327 

opinion : that in no period, in no case, in no circumstance, could 
there have been any contact between him and me.” 

But Villefort uttered words which even he himself did not be- 
lieve. While he was endeavoring to calm his fears, imagining a 
future limited to the enjoyments of home, fearing to awaken the 
enemy that had so long slept, the noise of a carriage sounded in 
the yard, then he heard the steps of an aged person ascending 
the stairs, followed by tears and lamentations, such as servants 
always assume when they wish to appear interested in their mas- 
ter’s' grief. He drew back the bolt of his door, almost directly 
an old lady entered, unannounced, carrying her shawl on her 
arm, and her bonnet in her hand. The white hair was thrown 
back from her yellow forehead, and her eyes, already sunken by 
the furrows of age, now almost disappeared beneath the eyelids so 
swollen with grief. “Oh, sir,” she said ; “ oh, sir, what a mis- 
fortune ! I shall die of it ; oh ! yes, I shall certainly die of it ! ” 

And then, falling upon the chair nearest the door, she burst 
into a paroxysm of sobs. The servants, standing in the doorway, 
not daring to approach nearer, were looking at Noirtier’s old 
servant, who, having heard a noise in his master’s room, had run 
there also, and remained behind the others. Villefort rose, and 
ran toward his mother-in-law, for it was she. 

“ Saint-Meran is dead ! ” answered the old marchioness, with- 
out preface, without expression ; she appears stupefied. Villefort 
drew back, and clasping his hands together, exclaimed — “ Dead ! 
so suddenly ? ” 

“A week ago,” continued Mdme. de Saint-Meran, “ we went 
out together in the carriage after dinner. M. de Saint-Meran had 
been unwell for some days ; still, the idea of seeing our dear Val- 
entine again inspired him with courage ; and, notwithstanding 
his illness, he would leave ; when, at six leagues from Marseilles, 
after having eaten some of the lozenges he is accustomed to take, he 
fell into such a deep sleep, that it appeared to me unnatural ; still I 
hesitated to wake him, when I fancied his face became red, and 
that the veins in his temples throbbed more violently than usual. 
However, as it became dark, and I could no longer see, I fell 
asleep ; I was soon awoke by a piercing skriek, as from a person 
suffering in his dreams, and he suddenly threw his head back. I 
stopped the postilion, I called M. de Saint-Meran, I applied my 
smelling-salts ; but all was over, and I arrived at Aix by the side 
of a corpse.” Villefort stood with his mouth half open, quite 
stupefied. “ It appears to have been an apoplectic stroke.” 

“ And what did you do then ? ” 

“ I had him put into a leaden coffin, and 1 am preceding him by 
a few days. 

Where is Valentine, sir ? It is on her account I am here ; I 
wish to see Valentine.” Villefort thought it would be terrible to 
reply that Valentine was at a ball : so he only said that she had gon« 


328 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


out with her step-mother, and that she should be fetched. " This 
instant, sir — this instant, I beseech you!” said the old lady. 
Villefort conducted her to his apartment. . 

Villefort left her to the care of the women, while old Barrois 
ran, half-scared, to his master ; for nothing frightens old men so 
much as when death relaxes its vigilance over them for a mo- 
ment in order to strike some other old man. Then, while Mdme. de 
Saint-Meran, still on her knees, remained praying fervently, Vil- 
lefort sent for a coach, and went himself to fetch his wife and 
daughter from Morcerf s. He was so pale when he appeared at 
the door of the ball-room, that Valentine ran to him, saying — 

" Oh, father ! some misfortune has happened I ” 

“Your grandmamma has just arrived, Valentine,” said M. de 
Villefort. 

"And grandpapa! ” inquired the girl, trembling with apprehen- 
sion. M. de Villefort only replied by offering his arm to his 
daughter. It was just in time, for Valentine’s head swam, and 
she staggered ; Mdme. de Villefort instantly hastened to her as- 
sistance, and aided her husband in dragging her to the carriage, 
saying — " What a singular event ! Who could have thought it? 
Ah, yes, it is indeed strange!” And the wretched family de- 
parted, leaving a cloud sadness hanging over the rest of the 
evening. At the foot of the stairs, Valentine found Barrois await- 
ing her. 

" M. Noirtier wishes to see you to-night,” he said, in an un- 
dertone. 

4&lt; Tell him I will come when I leave my dear grandmamma,” 
she replied, feeling, with true delicacy, that the person to whom 
she could be of the most service just then was the widow. 

At last she came up to Noirtier, on leaving Mdme. de 
Saint-Meran, who, in the midst of her grief, had at last 
yielded to fatigue, and fallen into a feverish sleep. Within 
reach of her hand they placed a small table, upon which 
stood a bottle of orangeade, her usual beverage, and a 
glass. Then, as we have said, the young girl left the bedside to 
see M. Noirtier. Valentine kissed the old man, who looked at 
her with such tenderness that her eyes again filled with tears, 
whose sources he thought must be exhausted. The old gentle- 
man continued to dwell upon her with the same expression. " Yes, 
yes,” said Valentine, " you mean that I have yet a kind grand- 
father left, do you not?” The old man intimated that such 
was his meaning. "Alas! happily I have,” replied Valentine. 
" Without that, what would become of me ? ” 

It was one o’clock in the morning. Barrois, who wished to 
go to bed himself, observed, that after such sad events, every one 
stood in need of rest. Noirtier would not say that the only rest 
he needed was to see his child, but wished her good-night, for 
grief .and fatigue had made her appear quite ill. The next morn- 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO* 


3 2 9 


5ng found her grandmother in bed ; the fever had not abated * 
on the contrary, her eyes glistened, and she appeared to be suf- 
fering from violent nervous irritability. *' Oh, dear grand- 
mamma! are you worse?” exclaimed Valentine, perceiving all 
these signs of agitation. 

44 No, my child, no ! ” said Mdme. de Saint-Meran, 44 but I was 
impatiently waiting for you and your father.'* 

f An instant afterwards Villeforte entered, 44 Sir,” said Mdme. 
de Saint-Meran, without using any circumlocution, and, as if fear- 
ing she had no time to lose, 44 you wrote to me concerning the 
marriage of this child to Franz d’Epinary? I must hasten, the 
marriage, for I have but a short time to live.” 

44 You, madame? ” 

41 You, dear mamma?” exclaimed M. de Villefort and Valen- 
tine at the same time. 

44 1 know what I am saying,” continued the marchioness ; 44 1 
must hurry you, so that, having no mother, she may at least have 
a grandmother to bless her marriage. 1 am all that is left to her 
belonging to my poor Renee, whom you have so soon forgotten, 

sir.” 44 Ah, madame,” said Villefort, 44 you forget that I was 

obliged to give a mother to my child.” 

44 A stepmother is never a mother, sir. But this is not to the 
purpose, our business concerns Valentine ; let us leave the dead 
in peace.” 

All this was said with such exceeding rapidity, that there was 
something in the conversation that seemed like delirium. 

44 It shall be as you wish, madame,” said Villefort ; 44 more espe- 
cially since your wishes coincide with mine ; and as soon as M, 
d’Epinay arrives in Paris ■” 

44 My dear mother,” interrupted Valentine, 44 consider decorum 
— the recent death. You would not have me marry under such 
sad auspices ? ’ 4 

at My child,” exclaimed the old lady, sharply, “let us hear none 
of those conventional objections that deter weak minds from form- 
ing their fortunes. I also was married at the death-bed of my 
mother, and certainly I have not been less happy on that account. 
This night I have had a fearful sleep. It seemed as though my 
soul were already hovering over my body ; my eyes, which I tried 
to open, closed against my will : and what will appear impossible 
above all to you, sir, I saw, with my eyes shut, in the spot where 
you are now standing, issuing from that corner where there is a 
door leading into Mdme. Villefort’ s dressing-room — I saw, I tell 
you, silently enter, a white figure. It was the spirit of my hus- 
band ! — Well, if my husband’s soul can come to me, why should 
not my soul reappear to guard my grand-daughter ? the tie is even 

more direct, it seems to me.” 44 Oh ! madame,” said Villefort, 

deeply affected, in spite of himself/’ do not yield to those gloomy 


330 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


thoughts ; you will long live with us, happy, loved, and honored* 
and we will make you forget ” 

“ Never, never, never! ” said the marchioness. 11 When does 
M. d’Epinay return?’* 

“ We expect him every moment.” 

“It is well. As soon as he arrives inform me. We must be 
expeditious. And then I also wish to see a notary, that I may be 

assured that all our property returns to Valentine.” “ Ah, my 

mother! ” murmured Valentine, pressing her lips on the burning 
brow of her grandmother, “do you wish to kill me? Oh, how 
feverish you are ! we must not send for a notary, but for a 
doctor! ” 

“ A doctor ! ” said she, shrugging her shoulders, “lam not ill ; 
I am thirsty — that is all.” 

“ What are you drinking, dear mamma?” 

“ The same as usual, my dear, my gk is is there on the table — 
give it me, Valentine.” Valentine poured the orangeade into a 
glass, and gave it to her grandmother with a certain degree of 
dread, for it was the same glass, she fancied, that had been 
touched by the spectre. The marchioness drained the glass at a 
single draught, and then turned on her pillow, repeating, — “ The 
notary ! the notary ! ” 

M. de Villefort left the room, and Valentine seated herself at the 
bedside of her grandmother. Two hours passed thus ; Mdme. de 
Saint-Meran was in a feverish sleep, and the notary had arrived. 
Though announced in a very low tone, Mdme. de Saint-Meran 
arose from her pillow. “ The notary ! ” she exclaimed, “ let him 
come in.” 

The notary, who was at the door, immediately entered. “ Go, 
Valentine,” said Mdme. de Saint-Meran, “ and leave me with this 
gentleman.” 

The girl kissed her grandmother, and left with her handkerchief 
to her eyes ; at the door she found the footman, who told her the 
doctor was waiting in the dining-room. Valentine instantly ran 
down. The doctor was a friend of the family, and at the same 
time one of the leading men of the day, and very fond of Valen- 
tine, whose birth he had witnessed. He had himself a daughter 
about her age ; but whose life was one continued source of anxiety 
and fear to him from her mother having been consumptive. 

“ Oh,” said Valentine, “ we have been waiting for you with such 
impatience, dear M. d’Avrigny. It is for my poor grandmother ; 
* v you know the calamity that has happened to us, do you not? My 
^grandfather is dead from an apoplectic stroke.” 

“ An apoplectic stroke ? ” repeated the doctor. 

“Yes! and my poor grandmother fancies that her husband, 
whom she never left, has called her, and that she must go and 
join him.” 

M It is singular,” said the doctor ; 91 1 was not aware that Mdme. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


331 


de Saint&lt;Meran was subject to such hallucinations. " “ It is the 

first time I ever saw her thus,” said Valentine, “ and this morning 
she frightened me so, that I thought her mad ; and my father, 
a strong-minded man, himself appeared deeply impressed.” 

“We will go and see,” said the doctor; “what you tell me 
seems very strange.” The notary here descended, and Valentine 
was informed her grandmother was alone. “ Go up-stairs,” she 
said to the doctor. 

“ And you? ” “ Oh, 1 dare not — she forbade my sending for 

you ; and, as you say, I am myself agitated, feverish, and unwell. 
I will go and take a turn in the garden to recover myself.” The 
dcctor pressed Valentine’s hand, and while he visited her grand- 
mother, she descended the steps. We need not say which portion 
of the garden was her favorite walk. After remaing for a short 
time in the parterre surrounding the house, and gathering a rose 
to place in her waist or hair, she turned into the dark avenue 
which led to the bank ; then from the bank she went to the gate. 
As usual, Valentine strolled for a short time among her flowers but 
without gathering them. The mourning in her heart forbade her 
assuming this simple ornament, though she had not yet had time 
to put on the outward semblance of woe. She then turned toward 
the avenue. As she advanced she fancied she heard a voice pro- 
nounce her name. She stopped astonished, then the voice reached 
her ear more distinctly, and she recognized Maximilian’s. 

“You here at this hour?” said she. “Yes, my poor girl," 
replied Morrel ; “ I come to bring and to hear bad tidings.” 

“ This is, indeed, a house of mourning ! ” said Valentine ; “speak, 

Maximilian ; although the cup of sorrow seems already full.” 

“Dear Valentine,” said Morrel, endeavoring to conceal his own 
emotion, “ listen, I entreat you ; what I am about to say is solemn. 
To-morrow you will be engaged to M. d’Epinay, for he came this 
morning to Paris. r 

“ You must advise me what to do." 

“ I am free,” replied Maximilian, “ and rich enough to support 
you. I swear to make you my lawful wife before my lips even 
shall have approached your forehead." 

“ My God,” said Valentine, raising both her hands to heaven 
with a sublime expression, “ I have done my utmost to remain a 
submissive daughter ; I have begged, entreated, implored ; he has 
regarded neither my prayers, my entreaties, nor my tears. It is 
done,” cried she, wiping away her tears, and resuming her firm- 
ness, “ I am resolved not to die of remorse, but rather of shame. 
Yes, you are right ; Maximilian, I will follow you. I will leave 
the paternal home, I will give up all. Oh ! ungrateful girl that I 
am,” cried Valentine, sobbing, “ I will give up all, even my dear 
old grandfather, whom I had nearly forgotten.” 

“ No,” said Maximilian, “ you shall not leave him. Mr. Nor- 
^ier has evinced, you say, a kind feeling toward me. Well ! before 


332 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


you leave, tell him all ; his consent would be your justification in 
God’s sight. As soon as we are married, he shall come and live 
with us ; instead of one child, he shall have two. You have told 
me how you talk to him, and how he answers you ; I shall very 
soon learn that language by signs, Valentine ; and I promise you 
solemnly, that instead of despair, it is happiness that awaits us.” 

44 Now listen to me, Maximilian ; if by artifice, by entreaty, by 
accident — in short, if by any means I can delay this marriage, 
will you wait ? ” 

44 We will wait,” said Morrel. 44 Instead of signing— — ” 

44 1 will join you, and we will fly ; but from this moment until 
then, let us not tempt Providence, Morrel ; let us not see each 
other ; it is a miracle, it is a providence that we have not been dis- 
covered ; if we were surprised, if it were known that we met thus, 
we should have no further resource.” 

44 You are right, Valentine ; but how shall I ascertain?” 

44 From the notary, M. Deschamps,” 

44 I know him.” 

44 And for myself— I will write to you, depend on me. I dread 
this marriage, Maximilian, as much as you.” 

44 Thank you, my adored Valentine, thank you.” 

It was on the following day, at about ten o’clock in the morning, 
as he was starting to call on Deschamps, the notary, that he 
received from the mail deliverer a small note, which he knew to be 
from Valentine, although he had not before seen her writing. It 
was to this effect : — 

44 Tears, entreaties, prayers, have avaif^d me nothing. Yester- 
day, for two hours, I was at the church ol Saint Philip, and for two 
hours I prayed most fervently. Heaved is as inflexible as man, 
and the signature of the .contract is fixe* for this evening at nine 
o’clock. I have but one promise and butane heart to give ; that 
promise is pledged to you, that heart is als&lt;? ^ours. This evening, 
then, at a quarter past nine, at the gate. 

44 Your betrothed, 

44 Valentine De Villefort.” 

44 P. S. — My poor grandmother gets worse aiK worse; yesterday 
her fever amounted to delirium ; to-day her delirium is almost 
madness. You will be very kind to me, will you ^ot, Morrel, to 
make me forget my sorrow in leaving her thus ? I thi^k it is kept 
a secret from grandpapa Noirtier, that the contract is to be signed 
this evening.” 

Morrel was punctual. 

No one came, and tired of waiting, Maximilian determined on 
the rash step of entering the house. But, passing through the gar- 
den, he was stopped by hearing a voice at a distance. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


333 


He stepped back and concealed himself completely, remaining 
perfectly motionless. He had formed his resolution : if it was 
Valentine alone, he would speak as she passed ; if she was ac- 
companied, and he could not speak, still he should see her, and 
know that she was safe ; if they were strangers, he would listen to 
their conversation, and might understand something of this hitherto 
incomprehensible mystery. The moon had just then escaped from 
behind the cloud wnich had concealed it, and Morrel saw Villefort 
come out upon the steps, followed by a gentleman in black. They 
descended, and advanced toward the clump of trees, and Morrel 
soon recognized the other gentleman as Doctor d’Avrigny. 

“ Ah, my dear doctor,” said the attorney, “ Heaven declares it- 
self against my house ! what a blow ! she is dead ! ” A cold 
dampness covered the young man’s brow, and his teeth chattered. 
Who could be dead in that house, which Villefort himself had 
called accursed? “My dear M. de Villefort,” replied the doctor, 
with a tone which redoubled the terror of the young man, “ 1 have 
not led you here to console you ; on the contrary, I have a terrible 
secret to communicate to you,” said the doctor. “ Let us sit 
down.” 

Villefort fell, rather than seated himself. The doctor stood be- 
fore him, with one hand placed on- his shoulder. Morrel, hor- 
rified, supported his head with one hand, and with the other 
pressed his heart, lest its beatings should be heard. “ Dead ! 
dead! ” repeated he within himself; and he felt as if he were 
also dying. 

“Speak, doctor — i am listening,” said Villefort; “strike — I 
am prepared for everything! ” 

“ Mdme. de Saint-Meran was, doubtless, advancing in years, 
but she enjoyed excellent health.” Morrel began again to breathe 
freely, which he had not done the last ten minutes. 

“ Grief has consumed her,” said Villefort — “yes, grief, doctor! 
After living forty years with the marquis ” 

“It is not grief, my dear Villefort,” said the doctor ; “grief 
may kill, although it rarely does, and never in a day, never in an 
hour, never in ten minutes.” 

“ Mdme. de Saint-Meran had three successive attacks, and at 
the third she expired.” 

“ At the end of the first attack I discovered symptoms o£ 
tetanus ; you confirmed my opinion.” 

“Yes, before others,” replied the doctor; “but now we are 
alone ” 

“ What are you going to say ? Oh, spare me ! ” 

“ Mdme. de Saint-Meran has sunk under a violent dose of 
brucine or strychnine, which by some mistake, perhaps, has been 
given to her.” Villefort seized the doctor’s hand. “ Oh, it is 
impossible ! ” said he ; “I must be dreaming ! It is frightful to 


334 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


beat* such things from such a man as you ! Tell me, I entreat you# 
my dear doctor, that you may be deceived. ” 

44 Has any one besides me seen Mdme. de Saint-Meran? 

44 No/’ 

44 Has anything been sent for from a druggist’s that I have not 
examined ? ” 

44 Nothing.* * 

41 Had Mdme. de Saint-Meran any enemies?** 

41 Not to my knowledge.'* 

44 Would her death affect any one’s interest ? *’ 

44 It could not indeed ; my daughter is her only heiress — Valen- 
tine alone. Oh, if such a thought could present itself, I would 
stab myself to punish my heart for having for one instant har- 
bored it.” 

44 May not Barrois, the old servant, have made a mistake, and 
have given Mdme. de Saint-Meran a dose prepared for his mas- 
ter?” 

44 But how could a dose prepared for M. Noirtier poison 
Mdme. de Saint-Meran?” 

44 Nothing is more simple. You know poisons become remedies 
in certain diseases, of which paralysis is one. For instance, hav- 
ing tried every other remedy to restore movement and speech to 
to M. Noitier, I resolved to try one last means, and for three 
months I have been giving him brucine ; so that in the last dose I 
ordered for him there were six grains. This quantity, which it is 
perfectly safe to administer to the paralyzed frame of M. Noitier, 
which has become gradually accustomed to it, would be sufficient 
to kill another person.” 

44 What do you propose tome, D’Avrigny?” said Villefort in 
despair, 44 so soon as another is admitted into our secret, an in- 
quest will become necessary ; and an inquest in my house — im- 
possible ! Still,” continued the lawyer, looking at the doctor 
with uneasiness, 44 if you wish it — if you demand it, it shall be 
done. But, doctor, you see me already so grieved — how can I 
introduce into my house so much scandal, after so much sorrow ? 
My wife and my daughter would die of it ! And I, doctor — you 
know a man does not arrive at the post I occupy — one has not 
been public prosecutor twenty-five years without having amassed 
a tolerable number of enemies ; mine are numerous. Let this 
affair be talked of, it will be a triumph for them, which will make 
jthem rejoice, and cover me with shame. Pardon me, doctor, 
these- worldly ideas ; were you a priest I should not dare tell you 
that ; but you are a man, and you know mankind. Doctor, pray 
recall your words ; you have said nothing, have you?” 

41 My dear M. de Villefort,” replied the doctor, 44 my first duty is 
humanity. I would have saved Mdme. de Saint-Meran, if 
science could have done it ; but she is dead, my duty regards the 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTQ. 3^5 

Mving. Let us bury this terrible secret in the deepest recesses of 
our hearts. ” 

"I thank you, doctor,” said Villefort, with indescribable joy ; 
«• I never had a better friend than you.” And, as if heTeared 
Avrigny would recall his promise, he hurried him toward the 
house. 

When they were gone, Morrel ventured out from under the 
trees, and the moon shone upon his face, which was so pale it 
might have been taken for a phantom. 11 1 am manifestly pro* 
tected in a most wonderful, but most terrible manner, 35 said he ; 
•'but Valentine, poor girl! how will she bear so much sor- 
row ? ” ' 

As he thought thus, he looked alternately at the window with 
red curtains and the three windows with white curtains. The 
light had almost disappeared from the former : doubtless Mdme. 
de Villefort had just put out her lamp, and the night-lamp alone 
reflected its dull light on the window. At the extremity of the 
building, on the contrary, he saw one of the three windows open. 
A wax-light placed on the mantel-piece threw some of its pale 
rays without, and a shadow was seen for one moment on the bal- 
cony. Morrel shuddered, he thought he heard a sob. 

It cannot be wondered at that his mind, generally so courageous, 
but now disturbed by the two strongest human passions, love and 
fear, was weakened even to the indulgence of superstitious thoughts. 
Although it was impossible Valentine could see him, hidden as 
he was, he thought he heard the shadow at the window call him ; 
his disturbed mind told him so. This double error became an ir- 
resistible reality, and by one of those incomprehensible transports 
of youth, he bounded from his hiding-place, and with two strides, 
at the risk of being seen, at the risk of alarming Valentine, at 
the risk of being discovered by some exclamation which might 
escape the girl, he crossed the flower-garden, which, by the light 
of the moon, resembled a large white lake, and, having passed 
the rows of orange-trees which extended in front of the house, he 
reached the step, ran quickly up, and pushed the door, which 
opened without offering any resistance. 

Morrel was mad. Happily he did not meet any one, Now v 
especially, did he find the description Valentine had given oi 
the interior of the house useful to him ; he arrived safely at the 
top of the staircase, and while feeling his way, a sob indicated 
the direction he was to take ; he turned back: a door partly open 
unabled him to see his road, and to hear the sorrowing voice. He 
pushed it open and entered. At the other end of the room c under 
a white sheet which covered it, lay the corpse, still more alarming 
to Morrel since the account he had so unexpectedly overheard. 
By the side, on her knees, and her head buried in the cushion of 
an easy chair, was Valentine, trembling and sobbing, her hands 
extended above her head, clasped and stiff. He sighed, acd 


33 ^ 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTQ. 


whispered a name. Valentine, as her only apology for not hav- 
ing met him, pointed to the corpse under the sheet, and began t® 
sob again. Neither dared for some time to speak in that room. 
They hesitated to break the silence which death seemed to impose ; 
at length Valentine ventured. 

44 My friend,” said she, 44 how came you here? . Alas, I would 
say you are welcome, had not death opened the way for you into 
this house.” 

"Valentine,” said Morrel, with a trembling voice, 41 your serv- 
ants,” said he, 44 were repeating the sorrowful story ; from them 
I learned it all. But what has become of M. d’Epinay ? ” 

44 M. Franz arrived to sign the contract just as my dear grand- 
mother was dying.” 

44 Alas!” said Morrel, with a feeling of selfish joy; for he 
thought this death would cause the wedding to be postponed indef- 
initely. 44 But what redoubles my sorrow,” continued the girl, as 
if the feeling was to receive its immediate punishment, 44 is that 
the poor old lady, on her death-bed, requested the marriage might 
take place as soon as possible ; she also, thinking to protect me, 
was acting against me.” 

44 Hark! ” said Morrel. They both listened ; steps were dis- 
tinctly heard in the corridor and on the stairs. - 4 4 It is my father, 

who has just left his cabinet.” 

44 To accompany the doctor to the door,” added Morrel. 

44 How do you know it is the doctor?” asked Valentine, 
astonished. 

44 1 imagine it mus'c be,” said Morrel. Valentine looked at the 
young man ; they heard the street-door close ; then M. de Ville- 
fort locked the garden-door, and returned up-stairs. He stopped 
a moment in the ante-room, as if hesitating whether to turn to his 
own apartment or into Mdme. de Saint-Meran’s ; Morrel concealed 
himself behind a door ; Valentine remained motionless, grief 
seemed to deprive her of all fear. M. de Villefort passed on to 
his own room. 44 Now,” said Valentine, 44 you can neither go out 
by the front-door nor by the garden.” Morrel looked at her with 
astonishment. 44 There is but one way left you that is safe,” said 
she ; 44 it is through my grandfather’s room.” 

She led the way down a narrow staircase to M. Noirtier's room ; 
Morrel followed her on tiptoe ; at the door they found the old serv- 
ant. 44 Barrois,” said Valentine, 44 shut the door, and let no one 
come in.” She passed first. Noirtier, seated in his chair, and 
listening to every sound, was watching the door : he saw Valentine, 
and his eyes brightened. There was something grave and solemn 
in the approach of the girl which struck the old man, and imme- 
diately his bright eye began to interrogate. 44 Dear grandfather,” 
said she hurriedly, 44 you know poor grandmamma died an hour 
since, and now I have no friend in the world but you.” His ex- 
pressive eyes evinced the greatest tenderness. 44 To you alone* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


33 i 


then, may I confide my sorrows and my hopes?” The paralytic 
motioned 11 Yes.” Valentine took Maximilian’s hand. The old 
man fixed his scrutinizing gaze with slight astonishment on 
Morrel. “ This is M. Maximilian Morrel,” said she ; “ the son of 
that good merchant of Marseilles, whom you doubtless recollect. ' 

“ Yes,” said the old man. 

“ He brings an irreproachable name, which Maximilian is likely 
to render glorious, since at thirty years of age he is a captain, an 
officer of the Legion of Honor.” The old man signified that he 
recollected him. “Well, grandpapa,” said Valentine, kneeling 
before him, and pointing to Maximilian, “ I love him, and will be 
only his ; were I compelled to marry another, I would destroy my- 
self.” 

The eyes of the paralytic expressed a multitude of tumultuous 
thoughts. 

“ And you will protect us, who are your children, against the 
will of my father ? ’ ’ 

Noirtier cast an intelligent glance at Morrel, as if to say, “ Per- 
haps I may.” Maximilian understood him. 

“ Mademoiselle,” said he, “ you have a sacred duty to fulfil in 
your deceased grandmother’s room, will you allow me the honor 

of a few minutes conversation with M. Noirtier?” “ That is 

it,” said the old man’s eye. 

Valentine rose, placed a chair for Morrel, requested Barrois 
aot to admit any one, and having tenderly embraced her grand- 
papa, and sorrowfully taken leave of Morrel, she went away. To 
prove to Noirtier that he was in Valentines’s confidence and knew 
all their secrets, Morrel took the dictionary, a pen, and some 
paper, and placed them all on a table where there was a light. 

He related the manner in which he had become acquainted 
with Valentine, and how he loved her ; and that Valentine, in her 
solitude and her misfortune, had accepted the offer of his devotion. 
He told him his birth, position, fortune ; and more than once, when 
he consulted the look of the paralytic, that look answered, “ That 
is good, proceed.” 

“ And now,” said Morrel, when he had finished the first part of 
his recital, “ now I have told you of my love and my hopes, may 

I inform you of my intentions?” “Yes,” signified the old 

man. 

“ This was our resolution : a cab was in waiting at the gate, in 
which I intended to carry off Valentine to my sister’s house, to 
marry her, and to wait respectfully M. de Villefort’s pardon.” 

“ No,” said Noirtier. 

“ There is another way,” said Morrel. The old man’s interroga- 
tive eye said, “ Which ? ” 

“ I will go,” continued Maximilian, “ I will seek M. Franz 
d’Epinay — I am happy to be able to mention this in Mademoiselle 

22 


338 THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 

tie Villefort’i absence — and will conduct myself toward him so as 
to compel him to challenge me.” 

When Morrel had finished, Noirtier shut his eyes several times, 
which was his manner of saying “ No.” 

‘‘Whence then will come the help we need — from chance?” 

resumed Morrel. “ No.” “ From you ? ” “ Yes.” 

There was so much firmness in the look which gave this answer, 
no one could, at any rate, doubt his will, if they did his power. 
“Oh, thank you a thousand times! But how, unless a miracle 
should restore your speech, your gesture, your movement, how 
can you, chained to that arm-chair, dumb and motionless, oppose 
this marriage?” A smile lit up the old man’s face, a strange 
smile of the eyes on a paralyzed face. “Then I must wait?” 
asked the young man. 

“Yes.”- “But the contract?” The same smile returned. 

“ Will you assure me it shall not be signed?” “Yes,” said 

Noirtier. 

“ Now,” said Morrel, “ do you wish me to retire ? ” “ Yes.” 

“ Without seeing Valentine ? ” “ Yes.” 

Morrel then bowed and retired. He found the old servant outside 
the door, to whom Valentine had given directions ; he conducted 
Morrel along a dark passage, which led to a little door opening on 
the garden. Morrel soon found the spot where he had entered ; 
with the assistance of the shrubs he gained the top of the wall, 
and by his ladder was, in an instant, in the clover-field, where his 
cab was still waiting for him. He got in it, and thoroughly 
wearied by so many emotions, he arrived about midnight in the 
Rue Meslay , threw himself on his bed, and slept soundly. 


CHAPTER XLVII, 

THE ESTOPPED ENGAGEMENT 

Two days after, a considerable crowd was assembled, toward 
Cen o’clock in the morning, round the door of M. de Villefort’s 
house, and a long file of mourning-coaches and private carriages 
extended along the street. Among them was one of a very sin- 
gular form, come from a distance, a covered wagon, painted 
black. It was ascertained that, by a strange coincidence, this 
carriage contained the corpse of the Marquis Saint-M^ran, and 
that those who had come, thinking to attend one funeral, would 
follow two. The two bodies were to be interred in the cemetery 
of Pere-la-Chaise, where M. de Villefort had long since had a 
tomb prepared for the reception of his family. The remains of 
poor Renee were already deposited there, whom, after ten % y*ars 
of separation, her father and mother were now going to rejoin. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


339 


These two sudden deaths, so quickly following each other, 
astonished every one ; but no one suspected the terrible secret 
which M. d’Avrigny had communicated, in his nocturnal walk, to 
M. de Villefort. They arrived in about an hour at the cemetery ; 
the weather was mild, but dull, and in harmony with the funeral 
ceremony. Among the groups which flocked towards the family 
vault, Chateau-Renaud recognized Morrel, who had come alone 
in a cabriolet, and walked silently along the path bordered with 
yew-trees. “ You here ! ” said Chateau-Renaud, passing his arms 
♦through the young captain's; “are you a friend of Villefort’s? 
liow is it I have never met you at his house? ” “ I am no ac- 

quaintance of M. de Villefort’s,” answered Morrel, “ but I was of 
Mdme. de Saint-Meran.” Albert came up to them at this moment 
with Franz. 

“The time and place are but ill-suited for an introduction,** said 
Albert ; “ but we are not superstitious. M. Morrel, allow me to 
present to you M. Franz d’Epinay, a delightful traveling com- 
panion, with whom 1 made the tour of Italy. My dear Franz, M. 
Maximilian Morrel, an excellent friend I have acquired in your 
absence, and whose name you will hear me mention every time I 
make any allusion to affection, wit. or amiability.’’ Morrel hesi- 
tated for a moment : he feared it would be hypocritical to accost 
in a friendly manner the man who he was tacitly opposing, but 
his oath and the gravity of the circumstances recurred to his 
memory ; he struggled to conceal his emotion, and bowed to 
Franz. _ Mdlle. de Villefort is in deep sorrow, is she not?” said 
Debray to Franz. 

“ Extremely,” replied he : “ she looked so pale this morning, I 
scarcely knew her.” These apparently simple words pierced 
Morrel to the heart. This man had then seen Valentine, and 
spoken to her ! The young and high-spirited officer required all 
his strength of mind to resist breaking his oath. 

Epinay was treated like one of the family, being passed into the 
vault, and he went home with the mourning father. 

Scarcely had they entered his house than Villefort sent to tell 
Valentine to be ready in the drawing-room in half an hour, as he 
expected the notary and M. d’Epinay and his witnesses. The 
news caused a great sensation; Mdme. de Villefort would not 
believe it, and Valentine wa§ thunderstruck. She looked round 
for help, and would have gone down to her grandfather’s room, 
but meeting Villefort on the stairs, he took her arm, and led her 
into the drawing-room. In the anteroom, Valentine met Barrois, 
and looked despairingly at the old servant. One moment after, 
Mdme. de Villefort entered the drawing-room with little Edward. 
It was evident that she had shared the grief of the family, for she 
was pale and looked fatigued. She sat down, took Edward on her 
knees, and, from time to time, pressed almost convulsively to her 
bosom this child, on whom her affections appeared centred. Two 


340 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


carriages were soon heard to enter the courtyard. One was the 
notary’s ; the other, that of Franz’s friends. In a moment the 
whole party was assembled. Valentine was so pale, one might 
trace the blue veins from her temples, round her eyes and down 
her cheeks. Franz was deeply affected. Chateau-Renaud and 
Albert looked at each other with amazement ; the ceremony 
which was just concluded had not appeared more sorrowful than 
did that which was commencing. Mdme. de Villefort had placed 
herself in the shade behind a velvet curtain ; and as she con- 
stantly bent over her child, it was difficult to read the expression 
of her face. M. de Villefort was, as usual, unmoved. 

The notary, after having, according to the customary method, 
arranged the papers on the table, taken his place in an arm-chair, 
and raised his spectacles, turned towards Franz : — ‘‘Are you M. 
Franz de Quesnel, baron d’Epinay?” asked he, although he 
knew it perfectly. 

“ Yes, sir,” replied Franz. The notary bowed. “ I have, then, 
to inform you, sir, at the request of M. de Villefort, that your pro- 
jected marriage with Mdlle. de Villefort has changed the feeling of 
M. Noitier towards his grandchild ; and that he disinherits her 
entirely of the fortune he would have left her. Let me hasten to 
add,” continued he, “that the testator, having only the right to 
alienate a part of his fortune, and having alienated it all, the will 
will not bear scrutiny, and is declared null and void.” 

“Yes,” said Villefort ; “but I warn M. d’Epinay, that during 
my lifetime my father’s will shall never be scrutinized, my position 
forbidding any doubt to be entertained.” 

M. de Villefort had scarcely said this, when the door opened, 
and Barrois appeared. 

“Gentlemen,” said he, in a tone strangely firm for a servant 
speaking to his masters under such solemn circumstances, — 
“ gentlemen, M. Noirtier de Villefort wishes to speak immediately 
to M. Franz de Quesnel baron d’Epinay : ” he, as well as the 
notary, that there might be no mistake in the person, gave all his 
titles to the bridegroom elect. 

Villefort started, Mdme. de Villefort let her son slip from her 
knees, Valentine rose, pale and dumb as a statue. Albert and 
Chateau-Renaud exchanged a second look, more of amazement 
than the first. The notary locked at Villefort. 

“ Pray go, Valentine,” said M. de Villefort, “ and see what this 
new fancy of your grandfather’s is.” Valentine rose quickly, and 
was hastening joyfully towards the door, when M. de Villefort 
altered his intention. 

“ Stop ! ” said he ; “I will go with you.” 

“Excuse me, sir,” said Franz, “since M. Noirtier sent for 
me, I am ready to attend to his wish ; besides, I shall be happy 
to pay my respects to him, not having yet had the honor of doing 
io.” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


341 


Noirtier was prepared to receive them, dressed in black, and in- 
stalled in his arm-chair. When the three persons he expected had 
entered, he looked at the door, which his valet immediately 
closed. 

“ Listen,” whispered Villefort to Valentine, who could not con- 
ceal her joy; “if M. Noirtier wishes to communicate anything 
which would delay your marriage, I forbid you to understand 
him.” Valentine blushed, but did not answer. Villefort, ap- 
proaching Noirtier — “Here is M. Franz d’Epinay,” said he; 
“ you requested to see him. We have all wished for this interview, 
and I trust it will convince you how ill-formed are your objections 
to Valentine’s marriage.” 

Noirtier answered only by a look which made Villefort’ s blood 
run cold. He motioned to Valentine to approach, and by his 
usual method had her call Barrois to open a secret drawer in an 
old desk. A paper taken from this receptacle was to be given to 
Epinay. The young man was surprised to find it a “ Report of the 
Meeting, 5th Feb., 1815, held in Our Hall, St. Jacques Street, by 
the Bonapartist Club.” It detailed that Gen. Flavien Quesnel, 
made baron by Louis XVIII., was still believed faithful to Napo- 
leon I. On challenging his creed, he declared that he was for the 
deposed monarch and against the Emperor. The committee took 
his word of honor that he would be silent on what he had heard 
and seen and he was conducted away blindfolded as he had been 
led in. 

Unfortunately, his language had been taken as an insult by the 
chairman of the meeting who, when his eyes were unveiled, on 
the riverside, suggested that they should settle the dispute by 
arms. He was armed with a sword cane, the general with a 
sword, but in spite of this inequality the Bonapartist slew the 
royalist. The witnesses of the meeting and the duel appended 
their names : L. J. Beaurepaire, lieut-col. of artillery, Brig. -gen. 
E. Duchampy and Claude Lecharpe 1, Lord High Forester. 

When Franz had finished reading this account, so dreadful for 
a son, — when Valentine, pale with emotion, had wiped away a 
tear, — when Villefort, trembling, and crouched in a corner, had 
endeavored to lessen the storm by supplicating glances at the im- 
placable old man, — he said to Noirtier: “ Since you are well ac- 

quainted with all these details, attested by honorable signatures, — 
and appear to take some interest in me, although you have only 
manifested it hitherto by causing me sorrow, refuse me not one 
final satisfaction — tell me the name of the president of the club, 
that I may at least know who killed my father.” Villefort me- 
chanically felt for the handle of the door ; Valentine, who under- 
stood sooner than anyone her grandfather’s answer, and who had 
often seen two scars upon his right arm, drew back a few steps. 

At Sir J sir J " cried Franz, turning to Noirtier, M do what you can! 


342 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


.—make me understand in some way ! ” “ Yes,'* replied Noir* 

tier. 

Noirtier looked at the dictionary. Franz took it with a nerv- 
ous trembling, and repeated the letters of the alphabet success- 
ively, until he came to M. At that letter the old man signified 

“ Yes.” The young man’s finger glided over the words, but at 

each one Noirtier answered by a negative sign. Valentine hid her 
head between her hands. At length, Franz arrived at the word 
MYSELF. “Yes!” 

“You!” cried Franz, whose hair stood on end; “you, M. 
Noirtier ! — you killed my father? ” 

“Yes?” replied Noirtier, fixing a majestic look on the young 
man. Franz fell powerless on a chair ; Villefort opened the door 
and escaped, for the idea had entered his mind to stifle the little 
remaining life in the old man’s heart. 


CHAPTER XLVIII. 

PROGRESS OF CAVALCANTI JUNIOR. 

Meanwhile M. Cavalcanti the elder had returned to his serv- 
ice, not in the army of Austria, but at the gaming-table of Lucca, 
of which he was one of the most assiduous courtiers. He had 
spent every penny that had been allowed for his journey as a re- 
ward for the majestic and solemn manner in which he had main- 
tained his assumed character of father. M. Andrea at his depart- 
ure inherited all the papers which proved that he had indeed the 
honor of being the son of the Marquis Bartolomeo and Oliva Cor- 
sinari. He was now fairly launched in that Parisian society which 
gives such ready access to foreigners, and treats them, not as what 
they really are, but as what they wish to be considered. Besides, 
what is required of a young man in Paris ? To speak its language 
tolerably, to make a good appearance, to be a good gamester, and 
pay in cash. They are certainly less particular with a foreigner 
than with a Frenchman. Andrea had, then, in a fortnight, at- 
tained a very fair position. He was entitled Count, he was said to 
possess 50,000 livres per annum ; and his father’s immense riches, 
buried in the quarries of Saravezza, were a constant theme. A 
learned man, before whom the last circumstance was mentioned 
as a fact, declared he had seen the quarries in question, which 
gave great weight to assertions hitherto somewhat doubtful, but 
which now assumed the garb of reality. 

Such was the state of society in Paris at the period we bring be- 
fore our readers, when Monte-Cristo went one evening to pay M. 
Danglars a visit. M. Danglars was out, but the count was asked 
to go and see the baroness, and he accepted the invitation. It was 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


343 


never without a nervous shudder, since the dinner at Auteuil, and 
the events which followed it, that Mdme. Danglars heard Monte- 
Cristo’s name announced. If he did not come, the painful sensa- 
tion became most intense ; if, on the contrary, he appeared, his 
noble countenance, brilliant eyes, amiability, and polite attention 
even toward Mdme. Danglars, soon dispelled every impression of 
fear. It appeared impossible to the baroness that a man of such 
delightfully pleasing manners should entertain evil designs against 
her ; besides, the most corrupt minds only suspect evil when it 
would answer some interested end — useles injury is repugnant to 
every mind. When Monte-Cristo entered the boudoir, where the 
baroness was examining some drawings, which her daughter 
passed to her after having looked at them with M. Cavalcanti, his 
presence soon produced its usual effect ; and it was with smiles 
that Ohe baroness received the count, although she had been a lit- 
tle disconcerted at the announcement of his name. The latter 
embraced the whole scene at a glance. 

The baroness was partially reclining, Eugenie sat near her, and 
Cavalcanti was standing. Cavalcanti, dressed in black, like one 
of Goethe’s heroes, with japanned shoes and open white silk stock- 
ings, passed a white and tolerably nice-looking hand through his 
light hair, in the midst of which sparkled a diamond, which, in 
spite of Monte-Cristo’s advice, the vain young man had been un- 
able to resist putting on his little finger. This movement was ac- 
companied by killing glances at Mdlle. Danglars, and sighs ad- 
dressed to the same party. Mdlle. Danglars was still the same — 
cold, beautiful, and satirical. Not one of these glances, nor one 
sigh, was lost on her ; they might have been said to fall on the 
shield of Minerva, which some philosophers assert protected some- 
times the breast of Sappho. Eugenie bowed coldly to the count, 
and availed herself of the first moment when the conversation be- 
came earnest to escape to her study, whence very soon two cheer- 
ful and noisy voices being heard, in connection with some notes of 
the piano, assured Monte-Cristo that Mdlle. Danglars preferred to 
his society and Cavalcanti’s, the company of Louise d’Armilly, her 
tinging governess. 

It was then, especially while conversing with Mdme. Danglars, 
md apparently absorbed by the charm of the conversation, the 
~ount remarked M. Andrea Cavalcanti’s solicitude, his manner of 
listening to the music at the door he dared not pass, and of mani- 
festing his admiration. The banker soon returned. His first look 
was certainly directed toward Monte-Cristo, but the second was 
for Andrea. As for his wife, he bowed to her, as some husbands 
do to their wives, but which bachelors will never comprehend, un« 
til a very extensive code is published on conjugal life. 

“Have n«t the ladies invited you to join them at the piano?" 
said Danglars to Andrea. “Alas 1 no, sir,” replied Andrea, with 


344 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


a sigh, still more remarkable than the former ones. Danglars im« 
mediately advanced toward the door and opened it. 

The two young ladies were seated at the piano, accompanying 
themselves, each with one hand, a fancy to which they had ac- 
customed themselves, and performed admirably. 44 Well ! ” said 
the banker to his daughter, 44 are we then all to be excluded?” 
He then led the young man into the study, and, either by chance 
or manoeuvre, the door was partially closed after Andrea, so that 
from the place where they sat neither the count nor the baroness 
could see anything ; but as the banker had accompanied Andrea, 
Mdme. Danglars appeared to take no notice of it. 

The count soon heard Andrea’s voice, singing a Corsican song, 
accompanied by the piano. While the count smiled at hearing this 
song, which made him lose sight of Andrea in the recollection of 
Benedetto, Mdme. Danglars was boasting to Monte-Cristo of her 
husband’s strength of mind, who that very morning had lost three 
or four hundred thousand francs by a failure at Milan. The praise 
was well deserved, for had not the count heard it from the baron- 
ess, or by one of those means by which he knew everything, the 
baron’s countenance would not have led him to suspect it. 
41 Hem ! ” thought Monte-Cristo, 44 he begins to conceal his losses; 
a month since he boasted of them.” Then aloud, — 41 Oh! ma- 
dame, M. Danglars is so skilful, he will soon regain at the Bourse 
what he loses elsewhere.” 

Danglars returned at this moment alone. 44 Well! ” said the 
baroness, 44 do you leave M. Cavalcanti with your daughter? ” 
— — 44 And Mdlle. d’Armilly,” said the banker ; 11 do you consider 
her no one ? ” Then, turning to Monte-Cristo, he said, 44 Prince 
Cavalcanti is a charming young man, is he not? But is he really 
a prince? ” 

41 1 will not answer for it,” said Monte-Cristo. 44 His father was 
introduced to me as a marquis, so he ought to be a count ; but I 
do not think he has much claim to that title.” 

44 Why ?” said the banker. 44 If he is a prince, he is wrong 
not to maintain his rank ; I do not like any one to deny his origin.” 
41 Oh 1 you are a pure democrat,” said Monte-Cristo, smiling. 

' 4i But do you see to what you are exposing yourself? If, per- 
chance, M. de Morcerf came, he would find M. Cavalcanti in that 
room, where he, the betrothed of Eugenie, has never been ad^ 
mitted.” 

44 You may well say, perchance,” replied the banker ; 44 for he 
comes so seldom, it would seem only chance that brings him.” 

44 But should he come, and find that young man with your 
daughter, he might be displeased.” 

44 He ! you are mistaken ; M. Albert would not do us the honor 
to be jealous ; he does not like Eugenie sufficiently. Besides, I 
care not for his displeasure.” 

44 Still, situated as we are~«^ 0 ' 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


345 

&gt; }i Yes , do you know how we are situated? At nis mother’s ball 
V», danced once with Eugenie, and M. Cavalcanti three times, and 
took no notice of it.” The valet announced Albert de Mor* 
cerf. The baroness rose hastily, and was going into the study, 
when Danglars stopped her. 44 Stay! ,# said he. She looked at 
him in amazement. Monte-Cristo appeared to be unconscious of 
- what passed. Albert entered, looking very handsome and in high 
spirits. He bowed politely to the baroness, familiarly to Dang- 
lars, and affectionately to Monte-Cristo. Then turning to the bar- 
eness : 44 May I ask how Mdlle. Danglars is?” said he. 

44 She is quite well,” replied Danglars, quickly ; 11 she is at the 
piano with M. Cavalcanti.” Albert preserved his calm and in- 
different manner ; he might feel, perhaps annoyed, but he knew 
Monte-Cristo’s eye was on him. 44 M. Cavalcanti has a fine tenor 
voice.” said he, 44 and Mdlle. Eugenie a splendid soprano ; and 
then she plays on the piano like Thalberg. The concert must be 
a delightful one.” • 

41 They suit each other remarkably well,” said Danglars. Al- 
bert appeared not to notice this remark, which was, however, so 
rude that Mdme. Danglars blushed. 

44 I, too,” said the young man, "am a musician — at least, 
my masters used to tell me so ; but it is strange that my voice 
never would suit any other, and a soprano less than any.” Dang- 
lars smiled, and seemed to say, It is of no consequence. Then, 
hoping, doubtless, to effect his purpose, he said, — “The prince 
and my daughter were universally admired yesterday. You were 
not of the party, M. de Morcerf? ” 

“What prince?” asked Albert. “Prince Cavalcanti,” said 
Danglars, who persisted in giving the young man that title. 

" Pardon me,” said Albert, 44 l was not aware he was a prince. 
And Prince Cavalcanti sang with M llle. Eugenie yesterday? 
It must have been charming, indeed. I regret not having heard 
them. But I was unable to accept your invitation, having prom- 
ised to accompany my mother tq.* German concert given by the 
countess of Chateau-Renaud.” 

Danglars was quite annoyed by the young man’s indifference. 
He took Monte-Cristo aside. 44 What do you think of our lover?” 
said he. 

“ He appears cool ! But, then, your word is given.” •• Yes, 

doubtless, I have promised to give my daughter to a man who 
loves her, but not to one who does not. Even if Albert had Cav- 
alcanti’s fortune, he isso proud, I would not care to see him marry 
her.” 

41 Oh ! ” said Monte-Cristo, 44 my fondness may blind me, but, I 
assure you, I consider Morcerf far preferable ; and his father’s po- 
sition is good.” 

“ Hem ! ” said Danglars. 44 Why do you doubt?” 

44 The past— that obscurity on the past.” 44 But that does no! 


346 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


affect the son. Besides you cannot break it off thus ; the Mor- 
cerfs are depending on this union.’* 

“ Then let them explain themselves ; you should give the father 
a hint, you are so intimate with the family.” 

“ I ? — where the devil did you find out that? ” 

“At their ball; it was apparent enough. Why, did not the 
countess, the proud Mercedes, the disdainful Catalan, who will 
scarcely open her lips to her oldest acquaintances, take your arm, 
lead you into the garden, into the private walks, and remain there 
for half an hour ?— But will you undertake to speak to the father ? ” 

- “ Willingly, if you wish it.” “ But let it be done explicitly 

and positively. If he demands my daughter, let him fix the day 
—declare his conditions : in short, let us either understand each 

other, or quarrel. You understand — no more delay,” “Yes, 

sir, I will give my attention to the subject.” “ I do not say I 

expect him with pleasure, but I do expect him. A banker must, 
you know, be a slave to his promise.’’ And Danglars sighed as 
M. Cavalcanti had done half an hour before. 

“Bravo!” cried Morcerf, as the scene closed. Danglars be- 
gan to look suspiciously at Morcerf, when some one came and 
whispered a few words to him. “I shall soon return,” said the 
banker to Monte-Cristo ; “ wait for me. I shall, perhaps, have 
something to say to you.” 

When Danglars entered, he was visibly agitated. Monte-Cristo 
observed it particularly, and, by a look asked the banker for an 
explanation. “ I have just received my mail from Greece,” said 
Danglars. 

“How is King Otho?” asked Albert, in the most sprightly 
tone. Danglars cast another suspicious look toward him without 
answering, and Monte-Cristo turned away to conceal the expres- 
sion of pity which passed over his features, but which was gone in 
a moment. “ We shall go together, shall we not ? ” said Albert 
to the count. 

“ If you like,” replied the latter. 

Albert advanced toward Eugenie, smiling. Meanwhile, Dang- 
lars, stooping to Monte-Cristo’ s ear, said : “ Your advice was ex- 
cellent, there is a whole history connected with the names Fernand 
and Janina.” 

“ Indeed ! ” said Monte-Cristo. u Yes, I will tell you all ; but 
take away the young man ; I cannot endure his presence.” 

“ He is going with me. Shall I send the father to you ? ” 

“Immediately.” 

“Very well.” The count made a sign to Albert ; they bowed 
to the ladies, and took their leave ; Albert perfectly indifferent to 
Mdlle. Danglars’ contempt, Monte-Cristo reiterating his advice 
to Mdme. Danglars on the prudence a banker’s wife should exer- 
cise in providing for the future, M, Cavalcanti remained master 
of the field. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


347 


CHAPTER XLIX. 

haydee’s story. 

Scarcely had the count’s horses cleared the angle of the boule- 
vard, than Albert, burning towards the count, burst into a loud fit 
of laughter — much too loud, in fact, not to give the idea of its be- 
ing rather forced and unnatural. “Well!’* said he, “I will 
ask you the same question which Charles IX. put to Catharine de 
Medicis, after the massacre of Saint Bartholomew. * How have I 

played my little part ? ’ ” “ To what do you allude ? ” asked 

Monte-Cristo. 

«« To the installation of my rival at M. Danglar’s ! ” 

“ What ! do you think Cavalcanti is paying his addresses ? ” 

•• I am certain of it ; his languishing looks and modulated tones 
fully proclaim hi» intentions. He aspires to the hand of the proud 

Eugenie.” “ What does that signify, so long as they favor 

your suit?” 

“ But it is not the case, my dear count ; on the contrary I am 
repulsed on all sides.” 

“ But the father has the greatest regard possible for you,” said 
Monte-Cristo. 

“He? oh, no! he has plunged a thousand daggers into my 
heart ; tragedy-weapons, I own, which, instead of wounding, 
sheath their points in their own handles, but daggers which he 
nevertheless believed to be real and deadly. I will engage that 
before a week is past the door will be closed against me.” 

“ You are mistaken, my dear viscount. I am charged with the 
commission of endeavoring to induce your father to make some 
definite arrangement with the baron.”- “ By whom ? ” 

“ By the baron himself.” “ Oh! ” said Albert, with all the 

cajolery of which he was capable. “You surely will not do that, 
my dear count ?” 

“Certainly I shall, Albert, as I have promised to do it.” 

“Well! ” said Albert, with a sigh, “ it seems you are determined 
to marry me.” 

“ I am determined to try and be on good terms with everybody, 
at a*l events,” said Monte-Cristo. 

7hey both went into the house ; the drawing-room was lighted 
up- 'they entered it. “Tea, Baptistin,” said the count. Baptis- 


34 * 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTG. 


tin left the room without waiting to answer, and in two seconds 
reappeared, bringing on a salver all that his master had ordered, 
ready prepared, and appearing to have sprung from the ground, 
iike the repasts in fairytales. " Really, my dear count,’ * said 
Morcerf, " what I admire in you is, not so much your riches, for 
perhaps there are people even wealthier than yourself, nor is it 
only your wit, — but it is your manner of being served, without 
any questions, in a moment, in a second ; it is as if they guessed 
what you wanted by your manner of ringing, and made a point 
of keeping everything you can possibly desire in constant readi- 
ness/’ “ What you say is perhaps true : they know my 

habits.” 

" Ah ! but what do I hear ! ” and Morcerf inclined his head to- 
ward the door, through which sounds seemed to issue resembling 
those of a guitar. 

My dear viscount, you are fated to hear music this evening ; 
you have only escaped from the piano of Mademoiselle Danglars 

to be attacked by the guzla of Haydee.” " Haydee ! what 

an adorable name ! Are there, then, really women who bear the 
name of Haydee anywhere but in Byron’s poems? ” 

"Certainly there are. Haydee is a very uncommon name in 
France, but it is common enough in Albania and Epirus ; it is as 
if you said, for example, Chastity, Modesty, Innocence, — it is a 

kind of baptismal name, as you Parisians call it.” “ Oh, that is 

charming!” said Albert; "are there any more slaves to be had 
who bear this beautiful name ? ’* 

"Undoubtedly.” "Really, count, you do nothing, and have 

nothing like other people* The slave of Monte-Cristo ! why, it 
is a rank of itself in France: and from the way in which you 
lavish money, it is a place that must C* worth a hundred thou- 
sand francs a-year.” 

"A hundred thousand francs! the poor girl originally pos- 
sessed much more than that ; she was born to treasures, in com- 
parison with which those recorded would seem but poverty.” 

" She must be a princess, then ? ” 

" You are right ; and she is one of the greatest in her country, 
too? ” 

" I thought so. But how did it happen that such a great 

princess became a slave ? ” 

" How was it that Dionysius the Tyrant became a schoolmas- 
ter? The fortune of war, my dear viscount, — the caprice of 
fortune ; that is the way in which these things are to be accounted 
for.” . 

" Aiid is her name a secret ? ” " As regards the generality 

of mankind it is; but not for you, my dear viscount. You know 
the history of the pacha of Janina, do you not?” 

"Of Ali Tebelen ! oh! yes! it was in his service that my 
father made his fortune/’ 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


349 


•'True, I had forgotten that.” 

•'Well! what is Haydee to Ali Tebelen? " Merely his 
daughter.” 

44 What? the daughter of Ali Pacha?” 

« Of Ali Pacha and the beautiful Vasiliki.” 

" And your slave ? ” “ Yes.” 

" But how did she become so? ” 

«• Why, simply from the circumstance of my having bought her 
one day, as I was passing through the slave market at Constanti- 
nople.” 

“ Wonderful ! really, my dear count, you seem to throw a sort 
of magic influence over all in which you are concerned ; when 
listening to you, existence no longer seems reality, but a waking 
dream. Now, I am perhaps going to make an imprudent and 
thoughtless request, but I may venture to ask you this favor: present 
me to your princess.” 

44 1 will do so ; but on two conditions.” 

44 1 accept them at once.” 

44 The first is, that you will never tell any one that I have 
granted the interview.” 

44 Very well,” said Albert, extending his hand ; " I swear I will 
not.” 

44 The second is, that you will not tell her that your father ever 
served hers.” 

44 I give you my word that I will not.” 

44 Enough, viscount ; I know you to be a man of honor.” The 
count again struck the gong. Ali reappeared. 44 Tell Haydee,” 
said he, 44 that I will take coffee with her, and give her to under- 
stand that I desire permission to present one of my friends to her.’ 
Ali bowed and left the room. 44 Now, understand me,” said the 
count, 44 no direct questions, my dear Morcerf ; if you wish to 

know anything, tell me, and I will ask her.” 44 Agreed.” Ali 

reappeared for the third time, and drew back the tapestried hang, 
ing which concealed the door, to signify to his master and Albert 
that they were at liberty to pass on. 44 Let us go in,” said Monte- 
Cristo. 

Albert passed his hand through his hair, and twisted his mous- 
tache, then, satisfied as to his personal appearance, followed the 
count into the room, the latter having previously resumed his hat 
and gloves. Ali was stationed as a kind of advanced guard, and 
the door was kept by three French maids, commanded by 
Myrtho. Haydee was awaiting her visitors in the first room of her 
apartments, the drawing-room. Her large eyes were dilated with 
surprise and expectation, for it was the first time that any man, 
except Monte-Cristo, had been accorded an entrance into her pres- 
ence. She was sitting on a sofa placed in an angle of the room, 
with her legs crossed under her in the Eastern fashion, in a nest in 
the rich Indian silks which enveloped her. Near was the instru* 


350 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTSTO. 


inent cm which she had just been playing ; it was elegantly 
fashioned, and worthy of its mistress. On perceiving Monte- 
Cristo, she rose welcomed him with a kind of smile peculiar to 
herself, expressive at once of the most implicit obedience and also 
of the deepest love. Monte-Cristo advanced toward her and ex* 
tended his hand, which she, as usual, raised to her lips. 

Albert had proceeded no farther than the door, where he re- 
mained rooted the spot, being completely fascinated by the sight 
of such surpassing beauty, beheld, as it was, for the first time, 
find of which an inhabitant of more northern climes could form no 
adequate idea. 

44 Whom do you bring ? " asked the girl, in Romaic, of Monte- 
Cristo ; 44 is it a biend, a brother, a simple acquaintance or an. 
enemy.'" 

‘•A friend," said Monte-Cristo, in the same language. 

44 What is his name ? " 

41 Count Albert ; it is the same man whom I rescued from the 
hands of the banditti at Rome." 

44 In what language would you like me to converse with him ? " 

44 You will speak in Italian," said he. Then, turning towards 
Albert , — 44 It is a pity you do not understand either ancient or 
modern Greek, both of which Haydee speaks so fluently ; the 
the poor child will be obliged to talk to you in Italian, which will 
give you but a very false idea of her powers of conversation." 
The count made a sign to Haydee to address his visitor. 14 Sir," 
said she to Morcerf, 44 you are most welcome as the friend of my 
lord and master." This .was said in excellent Tuscan, and with 
that soft Roman accent which makes the language of Dante as 
sonorous as Homer’s. Then, turning to Ali, she directed him 
to bring coffee and pipes ; and when he had left the room to 
execute the orders of his young mistress, she beckoned Albert 
to approach nearer to her. Monte-Cristo and Morcerf drew their 
seats toward a small table, on which were arranged music, draw- 
ings, and vases of flowers. Ali then entered, bringing coffee and 
chibouques ; as to Baptistin, this portion of the building was pro- 
hibited to him. Albert refused the pipe which the Nubian offered 
him. 44 Oh, take it — take it," said the count ; 44 Haydee is almost 
as civilized as a Parisian ; the smell of an Havanna is disagreea- 
ble to her, but the tobacco of the East is a most delicious perfume, 
you know.’* 

Ali left the room. The cups of coffee were all prepared, with 
the addition of a sugar-glass, which had been brought for Albert- 
Monte-Cristo and Haydee took the liquor in the original Arabian 
manner, that is to say, without sugar. Haydee took the por- 
celain cup in her little slender fingers, and conveyed it to her 
mouth with all the innocent naivete of a child when eating or 
drinking something which it likes. At this moment two women en* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 351 

forth, bringing salvers filled with ices and sherbet, which they 
placed on two small tables appropriated to that purpose. 

“ On what subject shall I converse with her? ” said Albert, in 
a low tone to Monte-Cristo. 

“Just what you please ; you may speak of her country and of 
her youthful reminiscences ; or, if you like it better, you can talk 
of Rome, Naples, or Florence/* 

“ Oh ! ” said Albert, “ it is of no use to be in the company of a 
Greek if one converses as with a Parisian ; let me speak to her of 
the East. At what age did you leave Greece, signora ? ” asked 
he. “ I left it when I was but five years old,” replied Haydee. 

“And how far back into the past do your recollections ex- 
tend ? ” 

“ I could scarcely walk when my mother, who was called BasF 
liki, which means royal,” said the girl, proudly, “took me by the 
hand, and after putting in our purse all the money we possessed, 
we went out, both covered with veils, to solicit alms for the pris- 
oners, saying, * He who giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord. 
Then, when our purse was full, we returned to the palace, and 
without saying a word to my father, we sent it to the convent, 
where it was divided amongst the prisoners.” 

“ Count/’ said Albert, in a low tone to Monte-Cristo, “ allow 
the signora to tell me something of her history. You prohibited 
my mentioning my father’s name to her, but perhaps she will 
allude to him of her own accord in the course of the recital, and 
you have no idea how delighted I should be to hear our name 
pronounced by such beautiful lips.” Monte-Cristo turned to 
Haydee, and with an expression which commanded her to pay 
the most implicit attention to his words, he said in Greek : — “ Tell 
us the fate of your father ; but neither the name of the traitor nor 
the treason.” Haydee sighed deeply, and a shade of sadness 
clouded her beautiful brow. 

“ Oh ! then I remember as if it were but yesterday sitting under 
the sycamore-trees, on the borders of a lake. Under the oldest 
and thickest of these trees, reclining on cushions, sat my father ; 
my mother was at his feet, and I, childlike, amused myself by 
playing with his long white beard, which descended to his gridle, 
or with the diamond-hilt of the scimitar attached to his girdle. 
Then from time to time there came to him an Albanian, who said 
something, to which I paid no attention, but which he always an- 
swered in the same tone of voice, either ‘ Kill,* or ‘ Pardon.’ ” 

“So young,” said Albert, forgetting at the moment the count’s 
command that he should ask no questions of the slave herself, “ is 
it possible that you can have known what suffering is except by 
name ? * * 

Haydee answered his remark with a melancholy smile. “You 
wish me, then, to relate the history of my past sorrows?” saic* 

she. 


352 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


44 1 beg you to do so/* replied Albert. 

41 Well ! I was but four years old, when one night I was suddenly 
awoke by my mother. We were in the palace of Janina ; she 
snatched me from the cushions on which I was sleeping, and on 
opening my eyes I saw hers were filled with tears. She took me 
away without speaking. When I saw her weeping I began to cry 
too. 4 Silence, child ! * said she. At other times, in spite of 
maternal endearments or threats, I had, with a child’s caprice, 
been accustomed to indulge my feelings of sorrow or anger by 
crying as much as I felt inclined ; but on this occasion there was 
an intonation of such extreme terror in my mother’s voice when 
she enjoined me to silence, that I ceased crying as soon as her 
command was given. She bore me rapidly away. I saw then 
that we were descending a large staircase ; around us were all my 
mother’s servants carrying trunks, bags, ornaments, jewels, purses 
of gold, with which they were hurrying away in the greatest dis- 
traction. Behind the women came a guard of twenty men, armed 
with long guns and pistols, and dressed in the costume which the 
Greeks have assumed since they have again become a nation. 
You may imagine there was something startling and ominous,” 
said Haydee, shaking her head, and turning pale at the mere re- 
membrance of the scene, 44 in this long file of slaves and women 
only half-aroused from sleep, or at least, so they appeared to me, 
who was myself scarcely awake. Here and there, on the walls of 
the staircase, were reflected gigantic shadows, which trembled in 
the flickering light of the pine-torches, till they seemed to reach to 
the vaulted roof above. 

64 4 Quick! ’ said a voice at the end of the gallery. This voice 
made every one bow before it, resembling in its effect the wind 
passing over a field of corn, by its superior strength forcing every 
ear to yield obeisance. As for me, it made me tremble. This 
voice was my father’s. He marched the last, clothed in his splen^ 
did robes, and holding in his hand the rifle with which your em- 
peror presented him. He was leaning on the shoulder of his fav- 
orite Selim, and he drove us all before him, as a shepherd would 
his straggling flock. My father,” said Haydee, raising her head, 
C4 was that illustrious man known in Europe under name of Ali 
Tebelen, pacha of Janina, and before whom Turkey trembled.” 

Albert, without knowing why, started on hearing these words 
pronounced with such a haughty and dignified accent ; it appeared 
to him as if there was something supernaturally gloomy and terri- 
ble in the expression which gleamed from the brilliant eyes of Hay- 
dee at this moment ; she appeared like a Pythoness evoking a 
spectre, as she recalled to his mind the remembrance of the Jar- 
ful death of this man, to the news of which all Europe had listened 
with horror. 44 Soon,” said Haydee, 44 we halted on our march, 
and found ourselves on the borders of a lake. My mother pressed 
to her throbbing heart, and, at the distance of a few paces, I 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


353 


$aw my father, who was glancing anxiously around. Four mar- 
ble steps led down to the water’s edge, and below them was a 
boat floating on the tide. From where we stood I could see, in 
the middle of the lake, a large black mass ; it was the kiosk to 
which we were going. This kiosk appeared to me to be at a con- 
siderable distance, perhaps on account of the darkness of the 
night, which prevented any object from being more than partially 
discerned. We stepped into the boat. I remember well that the 
oars made no noise whatever in striking the water, and when I 
leaned over to ascertain the cause, I saw they were muffled with 
the sashes of our Palikares. Besides the rowers, the boat con- 
tained only the women, my father, mother, Selim, and myself. 
The Palikares had remained on the shore of the lake, ready to 
cover our retreat ; they were kneeling on the lowest of the marble 
steps, and in that manner intended making a rampart of the three 
others, in case of pursuit. Our bark flew before the wind. ‘Why 
does the boat go so fast?’ asked I of my mother.” 

“‘Silence, child! Hush! we are fleeing.’ I did not under- 
stand. Why should my father flee ? — he, the all-powerful — before 
whom others were accustomed to flee — who had taken for his 
device — 

“ * They hate ?ne t then they fear met * 

“ It was, indeed, a flight which my father was trying to effect. 

I have been told since, that the garrison of the castle of Janina, 
fatigued with long service had treated with the Seraskier Kourchid, 
sent by the sultan to gain possession of the person of my father ; 
it was then that Ali Tebelen took the resolution of retiring (after 
having sent to the sultan a French officer in whom he reposed 
great confidence) to the asylum which he had long before pre- 
pared for himself, and which he called katafhygion , or the 
refuge.” 

“ And this officer,” asked Albert, “ do you remember his name, 
signora?” Monte-Cristo exchanged a rapid glance with the girl, 
which was quite unperceived by Albert. “ No,” said she, “ I do 
not remember it just at this moment ; but if it should occur to me 
presently, I will tell you.” Albert was on the point of pronounc- 
his father’s name, when Monte-Cristo gently held up his finger in 
token of reproach ; the young man recollected his vow, and was 
silent. 

“ It was towards this kiosk that we were rowing. ground- 
floor, ornamented with arabesques, bathing its terraces in the wa- 
ter, and another floor, looking on the lake, was all which was visi-s 
ble to the eye. But beneath the ground-floor, stretching out into 
the island, was a large subterraneous cavern, to which my mother, 
myself, and the women were conducted. In this place were to- 
gether 60,000 purses and 200 barrels ; the purses contained 25,- 
23 


354 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


000,000 of money in gold, and the barrels were filled with 30,000 
pounds of gunpowder. 

“ Near these barrels stood Selim, my father’s favorite, whom I 
mentioned to you just now. It was his duty to watch day and 
night, a lighted fuse, and he had ordens to blow up all — kiosk, 
guards, women, gold, and Ali Tebelen himself, at the first signal 
given by my father. I remember well that the slaves, convinced 
of the precarious tenure on which they held their lives, passed 
whole days and nights in praying, crying, and groaning. As for 
me, I can never forget the pale complexion and black eye of the 
young soldier ; and whenever the angel of death summons me to 
another world, I am quite sure I shall recognize Selim. I cannot 
tell you how long we remained in this state ; at that period I did 
not even know what time meant ; sometimes, but very rarely, my 
father summoned me and my mother to the terrace of the palace \ 
these were my hours of recreation ; I, who never saw anything in 
the dismal cavern but the gloomy countenances of the slaves and 
the lintstock of Selim. My father was endeavoring to pierce with 
his eager looks the remotest verge of the horizon, examining atten- 
tively every black speck which appeared on the lake, whilst my 
mother, reclining by his side, rested her head on his shoulder, and 
I played at his feet, admiring everything I saw with that unsophis- 
ticated innocence of childhood which throws a charm round objects 
insignificant in themselves, but which in its eyes are invested with 
the greatest importance. The heights of Pindus towered above 
us ; the castle of Janina rose white and angular from the blue wa- 
ters of the lake, and the immense masses of black vegetation 
which, viewed in the distance, gave the idea of lichens clinging to 
the rocks, were, in reality, gigantic fir-trees and myrtles. 

“ One morning my father sent for us ; my fnother had been cry- 
ing all the night, and was very wretched ; we found the pacha 
calm, but paler than usual. * Basiliki,' said he to my mother, 
trembling perceptibly, ‘ the instant approaches which will decide 
everything. In the space of half-an-hour we shall know the em- 
peror’s answer. Go into the cavern with Haydee.’ * I will not 

quit you,' said Basiliki ; ‘ if you die, my lord, I will die with you.’ 
* Go to Selim!’ cried my father. ‘Adieu! my lord,’ mur- 
mured my mother, determining quietly to await the approach of 
death. ‘ Take away Basiliki ! ’ said my father to his Palikares. 

“ As for me, I had been forgotten in the general confusion ; I 
ran towards Ali Tebelen ; he saw me hold out my arms to him 
and he stooped down and pressed my forehead with his lips. Oh ! 
how distinctly I remember that kiss ! it was the last he ever gave 
me, and I feel as if it were still warm on my forehead. On de- 
scending, we distinguished through the lattice-work several boats 
which were gradually becoming more distinct to our view. At first 
they appeared like black specks, and now they looked like birds 
skimming the surface of the waves. During this time, in the 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


355 


kiosiv, At the feet of my father, were seated twenty Palikares, con- 
cealed from view by an angle of the wall, and watching with eager 
eyes the arrival of the boats ; they were armed with their long guns 
inliad with mother-of-pearl and silver, and cartridges, in great num- 
bers, were lying scattered on the floor ; my father looked at his 
watch, and paced up and down with a countenance expressive of 
the greatest anguish. This was the scene which presented itself to 
my view when I quitted my father after that last kiss. My mother 
and I traversed the gloomy passage leading to the cavern. Selim 
was still at his post, and smiled sadly on us as we entered. We 
fetched our cushions from the other end of the cavern, and sat 
down by Selim. In great dangers the devoted ones cling to each 
other ; and, young as I was, I quite understood that some immi« 
nent danger was hanging over our heads. 

It was about four o’clock in the afternoon ; and although the 
day was brilliant out of doors, we were enveloped in the gloomy 
darkness of the cavern. One single solitary light was burning 
there, and it appeared like a star set in a heaven of blackness ; it 
was Selim’s flaming lance. My mother was a Christian, and she 
prayed. Selim repeated from time to time these sacred words : — 
4 God is great ! * However, my mother had still some hope. As 
she was coming down, she thought she recognized the French 
officer sent to Constantinople, and in whom my father placed so 
much confidence, for he knew that all the soldiers of the French 
emperor’were naturally noble and generous. She advanced some 
steps towards the staircase, and listened. 4 They are approach. 

ing,’ said she ; 4 perhaps they bring us peace and liberty ! * 

4 What do you fear, Basiliki? * said Selim, in a voice at once so 
gentle and yet so proud ; 4 if they do not bring us peace we will 
give them war ; if they do not bring life we will give them death.* 

44 4 My child,* said Basiliki, 4 may God preserve you from ever 
wishing for that death which to-day you so much dread ! ’ Then, 
whispering to Selim, she asked what were his master’s orders. 4 If 
he send me his poniard, it will signify that the emperor’s intentions 
are not favorable, and I am to set fire to the powder ; if, on the 
contrary, he send me his ring, it will be a sign that the emperoi 
pardons him and I will extinguish the match and leave the maga- 
zine untouched.* 

4 4 4 My friend,* said my mother, 4 when your master’s order ar. 
rives, if it is the poniard which he sends, instead of despatching us 
by that horrible death which we both so much dread, you will mer- 
cifully kill us with this same poniard, will you not ? ’ 4 Yes, 

Basiliki,' replied Selim, tranquilly. 

44 Suddenly we heard loud cries; we listened : they were cries 
of joy ; the name of the French officer who had been sent to Con- 
stantinople resounded on all sides amongst our Palikares ; it was 
evident that he brought the answer of the emperor, and that it was 
favorable. Soon a figure appeared in the gray twilight at the en* 


35 6 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

trance of the cave. 4 Who are you ? * cried Selim. 4 But whoever 
you may be, I charge you not to advance another step/ — * Long live 
the emperor! ’ said the figure. 4 He grants a full pardon to the 
Vizier Ali ; and not only gives him his life, but restores to him his 
fortune and his possessions/ My mother uttered a cry of joy, and 
clasped me to her bosom. 4 Stop ! ’ said Selim, 4 if you come from 
Ali himself, you know what you were charged to remit to me ? ’ 

4 Yes/ said the messenger, 4 and I bring you his ring/ Place 

the object which I desire to see in the ray of light which shines 
there, and retire whilst I examine it/ — — 4 Be it so/ said the en- 
voy ; and he retired, after having first deposited the token agreed 
on in the place pointed out to him by Selim. 

Selim, still holding in his hand the lighted match, walked to- 
ward the opening, and aided by the faint light which streamed in, 
picked up the token. 

44 4 It is well ! * said he, kissing it ; 4 it is my master's ring ! ' 
And throwing the match on the ground, he trampled on it and ex* 
tinguished it. The messenger uttered a cry of joy, and clapped 
his hands. At this signal four soldiers of the Seraskier Kourchid 
suddenly appeared, and Selim fell pierced by five blows. Each 
man had stabbed him separately ; and, intoxicated by their crime, 
though still pale with fear, they sought all over the cavern to dis- 
cover if there was any fear of fire, after which they amused them- 
selves by rolling on the bags of gold. At this moment my mother 
seized me in her arms, and bounding lightly along numerous turn- 
ings and windings, known only to ourselves, she arrived at a pri- 
vate staircase of the kiosk, where was a scene of frightful tumult 
and confusion. The lower rooms were entirely filled with our 
enemies. Just as my mother was on the point of pushing open a 
small door, we heard the voice of the pacha sounding in a loud 
and threatening tone. My mother applied her eye to the crack 
between the boards ; I luckily found a small opening, which af- 
forded me a view of the apartment and what was passing within. 
4 What do you want? * said my father to some people who were 
holding a paper inscribed with characters of gold. 4 What we 
want/ replied one of them, 4 is to communicate to you the will of 

his highness. Do you see this firman?’ 4 1 do,’ said my 

father. 4 Well, read it ; he demands your head.' 

44 My father answered with a loud laugh, which was more fright- 
ful than even threats would have been, and he had not ceased 
when two reports of a pistol were heard ; he had fired them him- 
self, and had killed two men. The Palikares, prostrated at my 
father's feet, now sprang up and fired ; and the room was filled 
with fire and smoke. At the same instant the firing began on the 
other side, and the balls penetrated the boards all round us. Oh ! 
how noble did the grand vizier, my father, look at that moment, 
in the midst of the balls, his scimitar in his hand, and his face 
blackened with the powder of his enemies ! and how he terrified 


THE COUNT OF MONTE C/US TO. 35 ? 

them, even then, and made them fly before him ! ‘ Selim ! Selim ! 
cried he, 4 guardian of the fire, do your duty ! * 

“ ‘ Selim is dead ! ' replied a voice which seemed to come from 
the depths of the earth, ‘and you are lost, Ali ! ’ At the same 
moment an explosion was heard, and the whole flooring suddenly 
gave way ; my father fell on one knee, and at the same moment 
twenty hands were thrust forth, armed with sabres, pistols, and 
poniards — twenty blows were instantaneously directed against one 
man, and my father disappeared in a whirlwind of fire and smoke 
kindled by these demons, and which seemed like hell itself open- 
ing beneath his feet. I felt myself fall to the ground ; it was my 
mother who had fainted.” 

Haydee’s arms fell by her side, and she uttered a deep groan, 
at the same time looking toward the count, as if to ask if he were 
satisfied with her obedience to his commands. Monte-Cristo rose 
and approached her ; he took her hand, and said to her in Ro- 
maic, “ Calm yourself, my dear child, and take courage in re- 
membering that there is a God who will punish traitors.” 

“ It is a frightful story, count,” said Albert, terrified at the pale- 
ness of Haydee’s countenance, “and I reproach myself now, for 
having been so cruel and thoughtless in my request.” 

“Oh, it is nothing!” said Monte-Cristo. Then, patting the 
girl on the head, he continued, — “ Haydee is very courageous ; 
and she sometimes even finds consolation in the recital of her mis- 
fortunes.” 

“Because, my lord,” said Haydee, eagerly, “my miseries re- 
call to me the remembrance of your goodness.” 

Albert looked at her with curiosity, for she had not yet related 
what he most desired to know, namely, how she had become the 
slave of the count. Haydee saw at a glance the same expression 
pervading the countenances of her two auditors ; she exclaimed, 
— “ When my mother recovered her senses we were before the 
seraskier. ‘ Kill me,’ said she, ‘ but spare the honor of the widow 

of Ali.’ It is not me to whom you must address yourself, 1 

said Kourchid. 

“ « To whom, then ? 1 To your new master.' 

“ 4 Who and where is he ? ' ‘ He is here/ 

“And Kourchid pointed out one who had more than any con- 
tributed to the death of my father,” said Haydee, in a tone of 
chastened anger. “Then,” said Albert, “ you became the prop- 
erty of this man? ” “ No,” replied Haydee, “he did not dare 

to keep us, so we were sold to some slave-merchants who were 
going to Constantinople. We traversed Greece, and arrived, 
half dead, at the imperial gates. They were surrounded by a 
crowd of people, who opened a way for us to pass, when, sud- 
denly, my mother, having directed her eye to the object which 
was attracting their attention, uttered a piercing cry and fell to the 


358 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


ground, pointing, as she did so, to a head which was placed ovef 
the gates, and beneath which were inscribed these words, — 

‘This is the head of Ali Tebelen, Pasha of Janina.' 

" I cried bitterly, and tried to raise my mother from the earth, 
but she was dead ! I was taken to the slave-market, and was 
purchased by a rich Armenian. He caused me to be instructed, 
gave me masters, and when 1 was thirteen years of age he sold me 
to the Sultan Mahmoud.” 

“Of whom I bought her,” said Monte-Cristo, “as I told you, 
Albert, with the emerald which formed a match to the one I had 
made into a box for the purpose of holding my hasheesh.” 

“ Oh ; you are good ! you are great ! my lord ! ” said Hay dee, 
kissing the count’s hand, “ and I am very fortunate in belonging 
to such a master.” Albert remained quite bewildered with all 
that he had seen and heard. “ Come ! finish your cup of coffee/' 
said Monte-Cristo ; “the story is ended." 


CHAPTER L. 

“WE HEAR FROM JANINA.'* 

Villefort retired to his study, where he received about two 
hours afterwards the following letter from Epinay : 

“ After all the disclosures made this morning, M. Noirtier de 
Villefort must see the utter impossibility of any alliance being 
formed between his family and that of Epinay. M. d' Epinay 
must say that he is shocked and astonished that M. de Ville- 
fort, who appeared aware of all the circumstances, should not 
have anticipated him in this announcement.” 

This harsh letter, coming as it did from a man generally so 
polite and respectful, struck a mortal blow at the pride of Ville- 
fort. Hardly had he read the letter when his wife entered. 

M. de Villefort’ s communications on the subject were very 
limited and concise ; he told her, in fact, that an explanation had 
taken place between M. Noitier, M. d’ Epinay, and himself, and 
that the marriage of Valentine &lt;md Franz would consequently be 
broken off. This was an awkward and unpleasant thmg to have 
to report to those who were awaiting her return im the chamber of 
her father-in-law. She therefore contented herself with saying 
that M. Noirtier having, at the commencement of the discussion, 
been attacked by a sort of apoplectic fit, the affair would neces- 
sarily be deferred for some days longer. The next day M. 
Noirtier sent for the notary ; the first will was torn up and a second 
made, in which he left the whole of his fortune to Valentine, on 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTG. 


359 


condition that she should never be separated from him. It was 
then generally reported that Mdlle. Villefort, the heiress of the 
marquis and marchioness de Saint-Meran, had regained the good 
graces of her grandfather, and that she would ultimately be in 
possession of an income of 300,000 livres. Whilst all the pro- 
ceedings relative to the dissolution of the marriage-contract were 
being carried on at the house of Villefort, Monte-Cristo had paid 
his visit to Morcerf, who, in order to lose no time in responding to 
M. Danglars’ wishes, and at the same time to pay all due defer- 
ence to his position in society, donned his uniform of lieutenant- 
general, which he ornamented with all his crosses, and, thus at- 
tired, ordered his finest horses and drove to Danglars*. He was 
balancing his monthly accounts, and it was, perhaps, not the 
most favorable moment for finding him in his best humor. 

41 Well, baron,” said he, “here I am at last; sometime has 
elapsed since our plans were formed, and they are not yet exe- 
cuted.” Morcerf paused at these words, quietly waiting till the 
cloud should have dispersed which had gathered on the brow of 
Danglars, and which he attributed to his silence ; but, on the 
contrary, to his great surprise, it grew darker and darker. 

Morcerf, with a forced smile, rose, and, making a low 
bow to M. Danglars, said: “ M. le Baron, I have the honor of 

asking you the hand of Mdlle. Eugenie Danglars for my son, 
Viscount Albert de Morcerf.** 

But Danglars, instead of receiving this address in the favorable 
manner which Morcerf had expected, knit his brow, and without 
inviting the count, who was still standing, to take a seat, he said : 
Count, it will be necessary to reflect before I give you an anwer." 

“ What do you mean? ’* “ I mean, that I have a good rea- 

son, but that it is difficult to explain.’* 

fi You must be aware, at all events, that it is impossible for me 
to understand motives before they are explained to me ; but one 
thing at least is clear, which is, that you decline allying yourself 
with my family.” 

“ No, sir,” said Danglars ; " I merely suspended my decision, 
that is all.” 

“ My dear Danglars,” said Morcerf, “ we have been acquainted 
for many years,! and consequently we ought to make some al- 
lowance for each other’s failings. You owe me an explanation, 
and really it is but fair that I should know what circumstance has 
occurred to deprive my son of your favor.” 

“ It is from no personal ill-feeling toward the viscount, that is all 
I can say, sir,” replied Danglars, who resumed his insolent man- 
ner as soon as he perceived that Morcerf was a little softened 
and calmed down. “ And toward whom do you bear this personal 
ill-feeling, then ? ” said Morcerf, turning pale with anger. The 
expression of the count’s face had not remained unperceived by 
the banker ; he fixed on him a look of greater assurance than be- 


360 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

fore, and said: “ You may, perhaps, be better satisfied that I 

should not go farther into particulars.'’ 

A trembling, caused by suppressed rage, shook the whole 
frame of the count, and making a violent effort over himself, he 
said : “ I have a right to insist on your giving me an explanation. 

Is it Mdme. de Morcerf who has displeased you? is it my fortune 
which you find insufficient ? is it because my opinions differ from 
yours? ” 

“ Nothing of the kind, sir,” replied Danglars : there is no hurry. 
My daughter is only seventeen years old, and your son twenty-one. 
Whilst we wait, time will be progressing, events will succeed each 
other ; things which in the evening look dark and obscure, appear 
but too clearly in the light of morning, and sometimes the utter- 
ance of one word, or the lapse of a single day, will reveal the 
most cruel calumnies.” 

“ Calumnies, did you say, sir ?” cried Morcerf, turning livid 
with rage. “ Does any one dare to slander me?” 

“ Enough, sir,” said Morcerf, “we will speak no more on the 
subject.” And clenching his gloves with passion, he left the 
apartment. 

The next morning, directly he awoke, Danglars asked for the 
newspapers ; they were brought to him : he laid aside three or 
four, and at last fixed on the Impartial: the paper of which 
Beauchamp was editor. He hastily tore off the cover, opened the 
journal with nervous precipitation, arriving at the miscellaneous 
intelligence, he stopped, with a malicious smile, at a paragraph 
headed 11 Janina.” 11 Very good!” observed Danglars, after 
having read the paragraph; “here is a little article on Colonel 
Fernand, which, if I am not mistaken, would render the expla- 
nation which the count de Morcerf required of me perfectly un- 
necessary.” 

At the same moment, nine o'clock in the morning, Albert de 
Morcerf, dressed in a black coat buttoned up to his chin, might 
have been seen walking with a quick and agitated step in the 
direction of Monte-Cristo’s house in the Champs Elysees. When 
he presented himself at the gate the porter informed him that the 
count had gone out about half an hour previously. 

Albert left, intending to take a turn on foot. As he was pass- 
ing, he thought he saw the count’s horses standing at Gossett's 
shooting-gallery ; he approached, and soon recognized the coach- 
man. “Is your master shooting in the gallery?” said Mor- 
cerf. 

“ Yes, sir,” replied the coachman. Whilst he was speaking, 
Albert had heard the report of two or three pistol-shots. He 
entered, and on his way met the waiter. “ Excuse me, M. le 
Vicomte,” said the lad ; " but will you have the kindness to waH 
a moment ? ” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO, 361 


*'What for, Philip?” asked Albert, who, being a constant 
visitor there, did not understand this opposition to his entrance. 

“ Because the person who is now in the gallery prefers being 
alone, and never practises in the presence of any one.” 

“ Not even before you, Philip? Then who loads his pistol?" 

“ His servant, a black.” 

“ It is he, then.” 

“ Do you know this gentleman ? ” 

“Yes, and I am come to look for him; he is a friend of 
mine.” 

“ Oh ! that is quite another thing, then. I will go immediately 
and inform him of your arrival.” And Philip, urged by his own 
curiosity, entered the gallery ; a second afterward, Monte-Cristo 
appeared on the threshold. “ I ask your pardon, my dear 
count,” Albert, “for following you here ; and I must first tell you 
that it was not the fault of your servants that I did so, I alone 
am to blame for the indiscretion. I went to your house, and they 
told me you were out, but that they expected you home at ten 
o’clock to breakfast. I was walking about in order to pass away 
the time till ten o’clock, when I caught sight of your carriage and 

horses.” “ What you have just said induces me to hope that 

you intend breakfasting with me.” 

“ No, thank you, I am thinking of other things besides break- 
fast, just now ; perhaps we may take that meal at a later hour 
and in worse company.” “What on earth are you talking 

“ I am to fight to-day.” 

“Yes, I understand that, but what is the quarrel? People 
fight for all sorts of reasons, you know.” 

“ I fight in the cause of honor.” 

“ Ah ! that is something serious.” 

“ So serious, that I come to beg you to render me a serv- 
ice : be my second.” 

“ That is a serious matter, and we will not discuss it here ; let 
us speak of nothing till we get home. Ali, bring me some water.” 
The count turned up his sleeves, and passed into the little vesti- 
bule where the gentlemen were accustomed to wash their hands 
after shooting. “ Come in, M. le Vicomte,” said Philip in a low 
tone, “and I will show you something droll.” Morcerf entered, 
and instead of the usual mark, he perceived some playing-cards 
fixed against the wall. At a distance Albert thought it was a 
complete suit, for he counted from the ace to the ten. “Ah! 
ah !” said Albert, “I see you were preparing for a game of 

cards." “ No,” said the count, “ I was making a suit of 

cards. Those are really aces and twos which you see, but my 
balls have turned them into threes, fives, sevens, eights, nines, 
and tens.” Albert approached. In fact, the balls had actually 
pierced the cards in the exact places which the painted pips 


{62 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


urould otherwise have occupied, the lines and distances being as* 
regularly kept as if they had been ruled with pencil. "The 
deuce ! ” said Morcerf. 

"What would you, my dear viscount?” said Monte-Cristo, 
wiping his hands on the towel which Ali had brought him; "I 
must occupy my leisure moments in some way or other. But 
come, I am waiting for you.” Both then entered Monte-Cristo’ s 
carriage, which in the course of a few minutes deposited them 
safely at No. 30. Monte-Cristo took Albert into his study, and 
pointing to a seat, placed another for himself. "Now let us talk 
the matter over quietly,” said the count. " With whom are you 

going to fight ! ” " With Beauchamp.” 

"There appeared in his journal last night but wait, and 

read for yourself.” And Albert handed over the paper to the 
count, who read as follows : — 

"A correspondent at Janina informs us of a fact of which 
until now we had remained in ignorance. The castle which 
formed the protection of the town was sold to the Turks by a 
French officer named Fernand, in whom the Grand Vizier, All 
Tebelen, had reposed the greatest confidence.” 

" Well ! ” said Monte-Cristo, " what does it signify to you if the 
castle of Janina was given up by a French officer? ” 

" It signifies to my father, the Count of Morcerf, whose Chris- 
tian name is Fernand. He fought for the independence of the 
Greeks, and hence arises the calumny.” 

" Now, just tell me who the devil should know in France that 
the officer Fernand and the Count de Morcerf are one and the 
same person? and who cares now about Janina, which was taken 
as long ago as the year 1822 or 1823 ? ” 

"That just proves the blackness of the perfidy ; they have al- 
lowed all this time to elapse, and then, all of a sudden, rake up 
events which have been forgotten, to furnish materials for scandal, 
in order to tarnish the lustre of our high position. I inherit my 
father’s name, and I do not choose that the shadow of disgrace 
should darken it. I am going to Beauchamp, in whose journal 
this paragraph appears, and I shall insist on his retracting the 
assertion before two witneses.” 

"Then let me offer one word of advice.” 

" Do so, then, but let it be the last.” 

" Do not take any witnesses with you when you go to Beau- 
champ — then the affair will rest between you and Beauchamp.” 

" I believe you are right, I will go alone.” 

" Go ; but you would do better still by not going at all.” 

" But if, in spite of all my precautions, I am at last obliged to 
fight, will you not be my second ? ” 

"My dear viscount,” said Monte-Cristo, gravely, " you must 
have seen before to-day that at all times and in all places I nave 
been at your disposal, but the services which you have just de* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 36* 

^landed of me is one which it is out of my power to render 
you. 1 ’ 

“ We will say no more about it, then. Good-bye, count.*’ Mor- 
cerf took his hat, and left the room. He found his chariot at the 
door, and doing his utmost to restrain his anger, he drove at once 
to Beauchamp’s house. Beauchamp was in his office. It was 
one of those gloomy, dusty-looking apartments, such as journal- 
ists’ offices have always been from the time immemorial. The 
servant announced M. Albert de Morcerf. Beauchamp repeated 
the name to himself, as though he could scarcely believe that he 
had heard right, and then gave orders for him to be admitted. 
Albert entered. Beachamp uttered an exclamation of surprise on 
seeing his friend leap over and trample under foot all the news- 
papers which were strewed about the room. “ Here! here! my 
dear Albert! ” said he, holding out his hand to the young man. 
“ Are you out of your senses, or do you come peaceably to take 
breakfast with me ? Try and find a seat — there is one by that 
geranium, which is the only thing in the room to remind me that 
there are other leaves in the world besides leaves of paper.” 

“ Beauchamp,” said Albert, “ it is of your journal that I come 
to speak.” 

* 4 Indeed ! what do you wish to say about it ? ” 

•* I desire that a statement contained in it should be rectified, in 
an article headed 4 Janina.* ” 

“ Is the officer alluded to a relation of yours, then ? ” demanded 
the journalist. 

“He is my father,” said Albert — “ M. Fernand Mondego, 
Count de Morcerf, an old soldier, who has fought in twenty bat- 
tles, and whose honorable scars they would denounce as badges 
of disgrace.” 

y Is it your father?” said Beauchamp ; “ that is quite another 
thing. Then I can well understand your indignation, my dear 
Albert. I will reperuse ; ” and he read the paragraph for the 
third time, laying a stress on each word as he proceeded. “ But 
the paper nowhere indentifies this Fernand with your father.” 

" No ; but the connection will be seen by others, and therefore 
I will have the article contradicted.” At the word I will , Beau- 
champ steadily raised his eyes to Albert’s countenance, and then 
as gradually lowering them,' he remained thoughtful for a few mo- 
ments. 

“ The matter is worth looking into, and I will take pains to in- 
vestigate the matter thoroughly.” 

“ But what is there to investigate, sir?” said Albert, enraged 

beyond measure at Beauchamp’s last remark. “ If you do not 

believe that it is my father, say so immediately ; and if, on the 

contrary, you believe it to be him, state your reasons for doing 
’ * 

,5 Wai$ a moment— no threats, if you please, M. Fernand 


364 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


Mondego, Vicomte de Morcerf ; I never allow them from my 
enemies, and therefore shall not put up with them from my friends, 
The article was not inserted by me — I was not even aware of it ; 
but you have, by the step you have taken, called my attention to 
the paragraph in question, and it will remain until it shall be 
either contradicted or confirmed by some one who has a right to 
do so.” 

“Sir,” said Albert, rising, “ I will do myself the honor of send* 
ing my seconds to you.” 

“ Now, I am going to put a question to you, and one very much 
to the purpose, too. Do you insist on this retractation so far as to 
kill me if 1 do not make it, although I have affirmed on my honor, 
that I was ignorant of the thing with which you charge me, and 
although I still declare that it is impossible for any one but you to 
recognize the Count de Morcerf under the name of Fernand? ” 

“I maintain my original resolution.” “Very well, my dear 

sir ; I require three weeks* preparation ; at the end of that time I 
shall come and say to you, ' The assertion is false, and I retract 
it,’ or, • The assertion is true,* when I shall immediatety draw the 
sword from its sheath, or the pistols from the case, whichever you 
please.” 

“Three weeks! ” cried Albert ; “ they will pass as slowly as 
three centuries when I am all the time suffering dishonor.” 

“To-day is the 29th of August; the 21st of September will, 
therefore, be the conclusion of the term agreed on, and till that time 
arrives — and it is the advice of a gentleman which I am about to 
give you — till then we will refrain from growling and barking like 
two dogs chained within sight of each other.” 


CHAPTER LI. 

THE LEMONADE. 

Morrel was very happy. M. Noirtier had just sent for him 
and he was in such haste to know the reason of his doing so that 
he had not stopped to take a hack, placing infinitely more depend- 
ence on his own two legs than on the four legs of a cab-horse. On 
arriving at the house, Morrel was not even out of breath, for love 
lends wings to our desires. 

The old servant introduced Morrel by a private entrance, closed 
the door of the study, and soon the rustling of a dress announced 
the arrival of Valentine. She looked marvellously beautiful in 
her deep mourning dress, and Morrel experienced such intense 
delight in gazing upon her that he felt as if he could almost have 
dispensed with the conversation of her grandfather. But the easy- 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 365 


tha^r of the old man was heard rolling along the floor, and he 
soon made his appearance in the room. 

“ M. Morrel,” said Valentine to the young man, who was re- 
garding her with the most intense interest, “ my grandfather, M. 
Noirtier, intends leaving this house,” said she, “and Barrois is 
looking out suitable apartments for him in another. I shall not 
leave my grandfather, that is an understood thing between us. 
My apartment will be close to his. Now, M. de Villefort must 
either give his consent to this plan or his refusual ; in the first case, 
I shall leave directly ; and in the second, I shall await my 
majority, which will be completed in about ten months. Then I 
shall be free, I shall have an independent fortune, and ” 

“And what?” demanded Morrel. 

“ And with my grandfather’s consent I shall fulfil the promise 
which I have made you.” Valentine pronounced these few last 
words in such a low tone, that nothing but Morrel’ s intense inter- 
est in what she was saying could have enabled him to hear them. 
“ Once under my grandfather’s roof, M. Morrel can visit me in 
the presence of my good and worthy protector, if we still feel that 
the union we contemplated will be likely to insure our future com- 
fort and happiness ; in that case I shall expect M. Morrel to come 
and claim me at my own hands. But, alas ! I have heard it said 
that hearts inflamed by obstacles to their desire grow cold in time 
of security ; I trust we shall never find it so in our experience ! ” 

“ Oh ! ” cried Morrel, almost tempted to throw himself on his 
knees before Noirtier and Valentine, and to adore them as two 
superior beings, “ what have I ever done in my life to merit such 

unbounded happiness? ” “ Until that time,” continued the girl, 

in a calm and self-possessed tone of voice, “ we will conform to 
circumstances, and be guided by the wishes of our friends, so long 
as those wishes do not tend finally to separate us ; in one word, 
and I repeat it, because it expresses all I wish to convey, — we will 
wait.” 

Noirtier regarded the lovers with a look of ineffable tenderness, 
whilst Barrois, who had remained in the room in the character of 
a man privileged to know everything that passed, smiled on the 
youthful couple as he wiped the perspiration from his bald fore- 
head. “ How hot you look, my good Barrois ! ” said Valentine. 

“ Ah ! I have been running very fast, mademoiselle ; but I 
must do M. Morrel the justice to say that he ran still faster.” 
Noirtier directed their attention to a waiter, on which was placed 
a decanter containing lemonade and a glass. The decanter was 
nearly full, with the exception of a little already drunk by M. 
Noirtier. 

“ Come, Barrois,” said the girl, “ take some of this lemonade ; 

I see you are coveting a good draught of it.” “ The fact is,” 

said Barrois, “ I am dying with thirst, and since you are so kind 
as to offer it me, I cannot say I should at all object to drinking 


366 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


your health in a glass of it.’* “ Take some, then, and come 

back immediately.” Barrois took away the waiter, and hardly 
was he outside the door, which, in his haste, he forgot to shut, than 
they saw him throw back his head and empty to the very dregs 
the glass which Valentine had filled. Valentine and Morrel were 
exchanging their adieux in the presence of Noirtier when a ring 
was heard at the door-bell. It was the signal of a visit. Valen- 
tine looked at her watch. 

“ It is past noon,” said she, “ I dare say it is the doctor, grand- 
papa. Barrois ! ” cried Valentine, “ Barrois ! ” 

“I am coming, mademoiselle,” replied he. “ Barrois will 
open the door for you,” said Valentine, addressing Morrel. “ And 
now remember one thing, Mr. Officer, that my grandfather com- 
mands you not to take any rash or ill-advised steps which would 
be likely to compromise our happiness.” 

“ I promise him to wait,” replied Morrel ; “ and I will wait.” 
At this moment Barrois entered. “ Who rang ? ” asked Valen- 
tine. 

“Doctor d’Avrigny," said Barrois, staggering as if he would 
fall. 

“ What is the matter, Barrois ? ” said Valentine. The old man 
did not answer, but looked at his master with wild staring eyes. 

At this moment M. de Villefort, attracted by the noise, ap- 
peared on the threshold. Morrel relaxed his hold of Valentine, 
and retreating to a distant corner of the room, he remained half 
hidden behind a curtain. Pale as if he had been gazing on a ser- 
pent, he fixed his terrified eye on the agonized sufferer. 

Noirtier, burning with impatience and terror, was in despair at 
his utter inability to help his old domestic, whom he regarded 
more in the light of a friend than a servant. 

Villefort seemed stupefied with astonishment, and remained 
gazing intently on the scene before him without uttering a word. 
He had not seen Morrel. After a moment of dumb contempla- 
tion, during which his face became pale, and his hair seemed to 
stand on end, he sprang towards door, crying out, “Doctor! 
doctor ! come instantly ; pray come ! ” 

“Madame!” cried Valentine, calling her step-mother, and 
running up-stairs to meet her ; “ come quick, quick ! and bring your 
bottle of smelling-salts with you.” 

“What is the matter?” said Mdme. de Villefort, in a harsh 
and constrained tone. 

“ Oh ! come ! come ” -Mdme. de Villefort now deliberately 

descended the staircase. In one hand she held her handker- 
chief, with which she appeared to be wiping her face, and in the 
other a bottle of smelling-salts.. 'Her first look on entering the 
room was a Noirtier, whose face, independent of the emotion 
which such a scene could not fail of producing, proclaimed him 
to be in possession of his usual health ; her second glance was at 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 367 

the dying man. She turned pale, and her eye passed quickly from 
the servant, and rested on the master. 

“ In the name of Heaven, madame.” said Villefort, 44 where is 
the doctor? He was with you just now. You see this is a fit of 
apoplexy, and he might be saved if he could but be bled ! ” 

44 Grandpapa’s bottle of lemonade was standing just by his side ; 
poor Barrois was very thirsty, and was thankful to drink anything 
he could find.” Mdme. de Villefort started. Noirtier looked at 
her with a glance of the most profound scrutiny. 44 He has such 
a short neck,” said she. 44 Madame,” said De Villefort, 44 I ask 

where is M. d’Avrigny? In God’s name answer me! ” 44 He 

is with Edward, who is not quite well,” replied Mdme. de Ville- 
fort, no longer able to avoid answering. 

Villefort rushed up-stairs to fetch him himself. 44 Take this,’* 
said Mdme. de Villefort, giving her smelling-bottle to Valentine. 
44 They will, no doubt, bleed him ; therefore I will retire, for I can- 
not endure the sight of blood ; ” and she followed her husband 
up-stairs. Morrel now emerged from his hiding-place, where he 
had remained quite unperceived, so great had been the general 
confusion. 4 4 Go away as quick as you can, Maximilian,” said 
Valentine, 44 and stay till I send for you. Go.” 

Morrel looked towards Noirtier for permission to retire. The 
old man, who had preserved all his usual coolness, made a sign to 
him to do so. The young man pressed Valentine’s hand to his 
lips, and then left the house by a back staircase. At the same 
moment that he quitted the room, Villefort and the doctor entered 
by an opposite entrance. Barrois was now showing signs of re- 
turning consciousness ; the crisis seemed past ; a low moaning 
was heard, and he raised himself on one knee. D’Avrigny and 
Villefort laid him on a couch. 

Spasm after spasm coursed through him, but ended suddenly. 
None of the remedies had even eased him. 

"Dead?” cried Villefort, 44 and so soon?” 

44 Yes,” said the doctor, looking at the corpse before him; 44 but 
that ought not to astonish you ; the Saint-Merans died as soon. 
People die very suddenly in your house, M. de Villefort.” 

44 What ! ” cried the magistrate, with an accent of horror and 
consternation, 4 4 are you still harping on that terrible idea?” 

44 Still, sir ; and I shall always do so,” replied D’Avrigny, 44 for 
it has never for one instant ceased to retain possession of my 
mind : and that you may be quite sure I am not mistaken this 
time, listen well to what I am going to say, M. de Villefort.’ The 
magistrate trembled convulsively. 44 There is a poison which de- 
stroys life almost without leaving any perceptible traces. I know 
it well ; I have studied it in all its qualities and in the effects which 
it produces. I recognized the presence of this poison in the cass 
of Mdme. de Saint-Meran. As for this unfortunate Barrois, h* 
has been poisoned,” said D’Avrigny, 44 and I will maintain this at* 


J68 THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


sertion before God and man.” ViMefort said nothing, but be 
clasped his hands, opened his haggard eyes, and, overcome with 
his emotion, sank into a chair. 

“ In my house ! ” murmured he, 44 in my house ! ” 

“Come, magistrate,” said M. d’Avrigny, “show yourself a 
man ; as an interpreter of the law, do honor to your profession by 
sacrificing your selfish interests to it.” 

“ Do you then suspect any one? ” 

“ Well, sir, you have in your establishment, or in your family 
perhaps, one of those frightful phenomena of which each century 
produces only one. Locuste and Agrippina, living at the same 
time, are an exception, and proves the determination of Provi- 
dence to effect the entire ruin of the Roman empire, sullied by so 
many crimes. All these women had been, or were, beautiful. 
The same flower of innocence had flourished, or was still, flourish- 
ing on their brow, that is seen on the brow of the culprit in your 
house.” Villefort shrieked, clasped his hands, and looked at the 
doctor with a supplicating air. But the latter pursued without 
pity. 

“ * Seek whom the crime will profit,* says an axiom of jurispru* 
dence.” 

“ Have mercy on my child, sir ! ’* murmured Villefort. 

“ You see it is yourself who have first named her — you, her 

father. “Have pity on Valentine! Listen! it is impossible. I 

would as willingly accuse myself! Valentine, whose heart is pure as 
a diamond or a lily.” 

“No pity; the crime is flagrant. She herself packed all the 
medicines sent to Saint-Meran ; and Saint-Meran is dead. Mdlle. 
de Villefort prepared all the cooling draughts which Madame de 
Saint-Meran took, and she is dead. Mdlle. de Villefort took from 
the hands of Barrois, the lemonade which M. Noirtier has every 
morning, and he has escaped only by a miracle. She is the 
culprit ! — the prisoner ! Prosecutor, I denounce Mdlle. de Villefort ; 
do your duty.” 

Villefort fell on his knees. 

“ Listen ! ” cried he ; “ pity me,- nelp me ! No, my daughter 
is not guilty. I will not drag my daughter before a tribunal, and 
give her up to the executioner ! The bare idea would kill me, — 
would drive me like a madman to dig my heart out with my finger- 
nails ! And if you were mistaken, doctor ! — if it were not my 
daughter ! — If I should come one day, pale as a spectre, and say 
to you, * Assassin ! you have killed my child ! * Hold ! if that 
should happen, although I am a Christian, M. d’Avrigny, I should 
kill myself.’* 

“Well,” said the doctor, after a moment’s silence; “ I will 
wait.” Villefort looked at him as if he had doubted his words. 
“Only,” continued M. d’Avrigny, with a slow and solemn tone, 
“ if any one fails ill in your house, if you feel yourself attacked/ 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 369 


do not send for me, for I will come no more. I will consent to 
share this dreadful secret with you ; but I will not allow shame 
and remorse to grow and increase in my conscience, as crime and 
misery will in your house.” 

“Then you abandon me, doctor?” “Yes, for I ca»n follow 

you no farther ; and I only stop at the foot of the scaffold. Some 
further discovery will be made, which will bring this dreadful 
tragedy to a close. Adieu ! ” 

The doctor, without shaking hands with Villefort, or adding a 
word to what he had said, went out amid the tears and lamenta- 
tions of the whole household. The same evening all Villefort’ s 
servants, who had assembled in the kitchen, and had a long con- 
sultation, came to tell Mdme. de Villefort they wished to leave. 
No entreaty, no proposition of increased wages, could induce them 
to remain; to every argument they replied, “We must go, for 
death is in this house.” They all left, in spite of prayers and en- 
treaties, testifying their regret at leaving so good a master and mis- 
tress, and especially Mdlle. Valentine, so good, so kind, and so 
gentle. Villefort looked at Valentine as they said this. She was 
in tears ; and, strange as it was, in spite of the emotions he felt at 
the sight of these tears, he looked also at Mdme. de Villefort, and 
it p.ppeared to him as if a slight gloomy smile had passed over her 
thin lips, like those meteors which are seen passing inauspiciously 
between two clouds in a stormy sky. 


CHAPTER LII. 

THE RETIRED BAKER AT HOME. 

After a satisfactory chat with Danglars, who regarded him as 
a prospective son-in-law, Andrea disguised in his groom’s livery 
to go to Merrilmontant Street. He found the retired baker Paille- 
tin’s house and on the third floor he found a hare’s foot, which, 
by the hasty ringing of the bell, it was evident he pulled with con- 
siderable ill-temper. A moment after, Caderousse’s face appeared 
at the grating in the door. “Ah! you are punctual,” said he, as 
he unbowed the door. 

. “ Confound you and your punctuality ! ” said Andrea, throwing 
himself into a chair in a manner which implied that he would 
rather have flung it at the head of his host. 

“ Come, come, my little fellow, don’t be angry. See, I have 
thought about you — look at the good breakfast we are going to 
have ; nothing but what you are fond of.” Andrea, indeed, in- 
haled the scent of something cooking, which was not unwelcome 
to him, hungry as he was ; it was that mixture of fat and garlic 
peculiar to provincial kitchens of an inferior order, added to that 
M 


170 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


of dried fish, and above all, the pungent smell of musk and 
cloves. These odors escaped from two deep dishes, which were 
covered, and placed on a stove, and from a copper pan placed in 
an old 'to n pot. In an adjoining room, Andrea saw also a toler- 
ably clean table prepared for two, two bottles of wine sealed, the 
one with green, the other with vellow, a considerable portion of 
brandy in a decanter, and a measure of fruit in a cabbage-leaf, 
cleverly arranged on an earthenware plate. 

44 What do you think of it, my little fellow ? ” said Caderousse. 
44 Ay ! that smells good ! you know 1 used to be a good cook ; do 
you recollect how you used to lick your fingers ? You were among 
the first who tasted any of my dishes, and I think you relished 
them tolerably.’' While speaking, Caderousse went on peeling a 
fresh supply of onions. 

44 But,” said Andrea, ill-temperedly, 44 if it was only to break- 
fast with you, you disturbed me, I wish the devil had taken you ! ” 

44 My boy,” said Caderousse, sententiously, 44 one can talk while 
eating. And then, you ungrateful being ! you are not pleased to 
see an old friend? I am weeping with joy.” He was truly cry, 
ing, but it would have been difficult to say whether joy or tha 
onions produced the greatest effect on the lachrymal gland of the 
inn-keeper. 44 Hold your tongue, hypocrite!” said Andrea* 
41 you love me.” 

44 Yes, I do, or may the devil take me. I know it is a weak* 
ness,” said Caderousse, 44 but it overpowers me.” 

44 Weil ! ” said Andrea, 44 admitting your love, why do you wan* 
me to breakfast with you ? ” 

44 That I may have the pleasure of seeing you, my little fellow.” 

44 What is the use of seeing me after we have made all oui 
arrangements?”— — 44 Eh! dear friend,” said Caderousse, 44 are 
wills ever made without codicils? But you first came to break- 
fast, did you not? Well! sit down, and let us begin. You see I 
am obliged to economize, in case your prosperity should cease. 
Well, my friend, fortune is inconstant, as said the chaplain of our — 
hem ! — regiment. I know your prosperity is great, rascal ; you are 
to marry the daughter of Baron Danglars ? I might as well say 
Count Benedetto. He was an old friend of mine, and if he had 
not so bad a memory, he ought to invite me to your wedding, see- 
ing he came to mine. Yes, yes, to mine ; forsooth ! he was not so 
proud then ; he was an under-clerk to good M. Morrel. I have 
dined many times with him and the Count ae Morcerf ; so you 
see, I have some high connections, and were I to cultivate them a 
little, we might meet in the same drawing-rooms. Meanwhile let 
us sit down and eat.” Caderousse set the example, and attacked 
the breakfast with good appetite, praising each dish he set before 
his visitor. The latter seemed to have resigned himself : he drew 
the corks, and partook largely of the fish with the garlic and oil. 
M Ah! compear,” said Caderousse, 44 you &amp;re getting on bettei 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 37 1 

terms with your old landlord ! ” “ Faith, yes,” replied Andrea, 

whose hunger prevailed over every other feeling. 

“ So you like it, you rogue ? ” “ So much that I wonder how 

a man who can cook thus can complain of hard living.” 

“ Do you see,” said Caderousse, 11 all my happiness is marred 
by one thought : that I am dependent on another, one who have 
always gained my own livelihood honestly.” 

“ Do not let that disturb you, I have enough for two.” 

“No, truly; you may believe me if you will ; at the end of 
every month I am tormented by remorse. True remorse ; and, 
besides, an idea had struck me.” Andrea shuddered ; he always 
did so at Caderousse’s ideas. “It is miserable — do you see ? — 

always to wait till the end of the month.” " Oh ! ” said Andrea, 

philosophically, determined to watch his companion narrowly, 
“ does not life pass in waiting? Do I, for instance, fare better &gt; 
Well, I wait patiently, do I not? ” 

“ If I were in your place — — ** 

“Well.” 

“ I would realize — — ” 

“ How would you realize ?” 

“ I would ask for six months’ in advance, under pretence of be- 
ing able to purchase a farm, then with my six months’ I werald 
decamp.” 

“ Well, well,” said Andrea, “ that is no bad thought.” 

“ My dear friend,” said Caderousse, “ I have formed a plan/’ 
Caderousse’s plans alarmed Andrea still more than his ideas; 
ideas were but the germ, the plan was reality. “ Let me see your 
plan ; “ I dare say it is a pretty one.” 

“ Why not? Who formed the plan by which we left the stone 
cage of Melm ! eh ? was it not I ? and it was no bad one I believe, 
since here we are ! 

“ I do not say,” replied Andrea, “ that you never make a good 
one ; but let us see your plan.” 

“ Well,” pursued Caderousse, “can you without expending one 
sou, put me in the way of getting fifteen thousand francs ? No, 
fifteen thousand are not enough, I cannot again become an honest 
man with less than thirty thousand francs.” 

“ No,” replied Andrea, drily, “no, I cannot ; though you shall 
have your five hundred francs,” said Andrea ; “ but it is very 

hard foi\me, my poor Caderousse — you take advantage ” 

“ Bah ! ” said Caderousse, “ when you have access to countless 
stores.” One would have said Andrea anticipated his companion’s 
words, so did his eye flash like lightning, but it was but for a mo- 
ment. “ True,” he replied, “ and my protector is very kind. I— 

I — I think Andrea stopped and looked around. “You 

think ? Do not fear ; pardi? tc we are alone,” — ~ ,f I think I have 
discovered my father.” 

” Not old Cavalcanti I 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


% 7 2 

44 No ! Caderousse, it is Monte-Cristo.” 44 Bah ! ” 

44 Yes, you understand, that explains all. He cannot acknowl- 
edge me openly, it appears, but he does it through M. Cavalcanti, 
and gives him fifty thousand francs for it.” 

44 Fifty thousand francs for being your father! I would have 
done it for half that, for twenty thousand, for fifteen thousand ; 
why did you not think of me, ungrateful man ? ” 

44 Did I know anything about .it, when it was all done when I 
was out there ? ” 

4 * Ah ! truly ? ” 

44 By his will, he leaves me five hundred thousand livres.” 

44 Are you sure of it? ” 44 He showed it me ; but that is not 

all — there is a codicil, in which he acknowledges me.” 

“Oh! the good father ! the honest father! ” said Caderousse, 
twirling a plate in the air between his two hands. “ And your 
princely father, is he rich, very rich ? ” 

14 The other day a banker’s clerk brought him fifty thousand 
francs in a portfolio about the size of your plate ; yesterday his 
banker brought him a hundred thousand francs in gold.” Cade- 
rousse was filled with wonder ; the young man’s words sounded 
to him like metal ; and he thought he could hear the rushing of 
cascades of louis. 

“ How I should like to see all that ! ” cried he ; 44 how beauti- 
ful it must be ? ” 

44 It is, in fact, magnificent/’ said Andrea. 

4e And does he not live in the Chanaps-Elysees? ” 

44 Yes, a fine house standing alone, between a court-yard and a 
garden, you must know it.” 4 4 Possibly ; but it is not the ex- 

terior I care for, it is the interior : what beautiful furniture there 
must be in it ! It must be worth one’s while to stoop, Andrea, 
when our good Monte-Cristo lets fall his purse.” 

44 It is not worth while to wait for that,” said Andrea ; 44 money 
is as plentiful in that house as fruit in an orchard.” 

44 Try to give me an idea of what it is.” 

44 Faith, I should require pen, ink, and paper to make a plan.” 
44 They are all here,’* said Caderousse, briskly. He fetched 
from an old bureau a sheet of white paper, and pen and ink. 
“Here,” said Caderousse, 44 trace me all that on the paper, my 
boy.” Andrea took the pen with an imperceptible smile, and 
began. 44 The house, as I said, is between the court and the 
garden ; in this way, do you see?” Andrea traced the garden, 
the court, and the house. 

44 And where do the servants sleep?” 4 4 Oh! they have £ 

house to themselves.” 

44 And he is not robbed ? ” 

44 No ; his servants are all devoted to him.” 

44 There ought to be some money in his desk ?" 

•• There may be. No one knows what there is. M 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


m 


•• And where is it ?” 

“On the first floor.’ * 

“Sketch me the plan of that floor, as you have done of the 
groundfloor, my boy.” 

Caderousse became thoughtful. 

“ Does he often go to Auteuil? ” added he 

“Two or three times a-week. To-morrow, for instance, he is 
going to spend the day and night there. He has invited me to 
dine there.” 

Caderousse looked at the young man, as if to get ac the truth 
from the bottom of his heart. But Andrea drew a cigar-case from 
his pocket, took a Havannah, quietly lit it, and began smoking. 

“When do you want your five hundred francs?” said he to 
Caderousse. 

“ Now, if you have them.” Andrea took five and twenty louis 
from his pocket, 

“ Yellow boys?” said Caderousse; “no, I thank you.” 

“ You can change them, idiot ; gold is at a premium.” 

“ Exactly ; and he who changes them will follow friend Cader- 
ousse, lay hands on him, and demand what farmers pay him their 
rent in gold. No nonsense, my good fellow ; silver simply, round 
coins with the head of some monarch or other on them. Anybody 
may possess a five-franc piece.” 

“ But do you suppose I carry five hundred francs about with 
me ? I should want a porter.” 

“ Well, leave them with your porter ; he is to be trusted : I 
will call for them to-morrow ; I shall not have time to-day.” 

“ Well, to-morrow, I will leave them when I go to Auteuil.” 

“ How sprightly you are ! ” said Caderousse ; “ one would say 
you were already in possession of your property.” 

“ No, unfortunately ; but when I do obtain it ” 

“Well?” 

“I shall remember old friends, I only tell you that.” 

“ Yes, since you have such a good memory.” 

“ What do you want ? I thought you had ransomed me.” 

“I? What an idea! I was going to give you another piect 
of good advice.” 

“To leave behind you the diamond you have on your finger. 
We shall both get in trouble. You disguise yourself as a servant, 
and yet keep a diamond on your finger worth four or five thou- 
sand francs.” 

“ Have you finished now? ” said Andrea, — “ do you want any* 
thing more ? — will you have my waistcoat or my certificate ? Make 
free now you have begun.” 

“ No ; you are, after all, a true pal ; I will not detain you, and 
will try to cure myself of my ambition.” 

“ But take care the same thing does not happen to you in sell- 
ing the diamond you feared with the gold.” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


374 

*• I shall not sell it — do not fear it.’* 

44 Not at least till the day after to-morrow,” thought the y«&gt;ung 
man. 

14 Happy rogue! ’* said Caderousse ; "you are going to find 
your servants, horses, carriage, and betrothed ! ” 

" Yes,” said Andrea. 

44 Well, I hope you will make a handsome wedding-present the 
day you marry Mdlle. Danglars.” 

"Sure,” said Andrea; “I will let you know a week before* 
hand.” They parted. Caderousse remained on the landing un- 
til he had not only seen Andrea go down the three stories, but 
also cross the court. Then he returned hastily, shut his door 
carefully, and began to study, like a clever architect, the plan 
Andrea had left him. 

" Dear Benedetto,” said he, " I think he will not be sorry to in- 
herit his fortune, and he who hastens the day when he can touch 
his five hundred thousand will not be his worst friend.* * 


CHAPTER L1IX. 

BURGLARY AND MURDER. 

The day following, Monte-Cristo set out for Auteuil, accompa- 
nied by Ali and several attendants, and also taking with him some 
horses whose qualities he was desirous of ascertaining. He was 
iaduced to undertake this journey, of which the day before he had 
aot even thought, and which had not either occurred to Andrea, 
by the return of Bertuccio from Normandy, with intelligence re 
specting his house and yacht. The house was ready, and thi 
sloop, which had arrived a week before, lay at anchor in a small 
creek, with her crew of six men, who, after having observed all th? 
requisite formalities, were ready again to put to sea. The count 
praised Bertuccio’ s zeal, and ordered him to prepare for a speed j 
departure, as his stay in France would not be prolonged more 
than a month. As Bertuccio was leaving the room to give thf# 
requisite orders, Baptistin opened the door : he held a letter on 3 

silver waiter. 44 What do you do here ?” asked the count, see*&gt; 

ing him covered with dust ; 44 1 did not send for you, I think? ” 
Baptistin, without answering, approached the count, and pre. 
sented the letter. 44 Important and urgent,” said he. The couu 
opened the letter, and read : — 

44 The Count de Monte-Cristo is notified that this night a mat 
will enter his house in the Champs-Elysees with the intention o\ 
carrying off some papers supposed to be in the dressing-room. 
The count’s well-known courage will render unnecessary the aid 


% 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 375 

the police, whose interference might seriously affect him who 
aend^ this advice. The count will be able to defend his property 
himself. Many attendants or apparent precautions would prevent 
the villain from the attempt, and the Count of Monte-Cristo would 
lose the opportunity of discovering an enemy whom chance has 
revealed to him who now sends this warning, one he might not be 
able to send another time, if this first attempt should fail and 
another bt snade.” 

“They do not want my papers,” said Monte-Cristo; 54 they 
want to kill me : they are not robbers, but assassins. I will not 
allow the Police to interfere with my private affairs. I am rich 
enough, forsooth, to dispute authority on this occasion.” The 
count recalled Baptistin, who had left .the'room after delivering 
the letter. 44 Return to Paris,” said he ; 44 assemble the servants 

who remain there. I want all my household at Auteuil.” 

44 But will no remain in the house, my lord?” asked Baptistin. 

*&lt; Yes, the janitor ; let everything remain as usual, only close 

the shutters of the ground-floor.”^ 

44 And those of the first-floor? ” 

44 You know they are never closed. Go! ” 

The count signified his intention of dining alone, and that no 
one but Ali should attend him. Having dined with his usual 
tranquillity and moderation, the count, making a signal to Ali to 
follow him, went out by the side-gate, and, on reaching the Bois 
de Boulogne, turned, apparently without design, towards Paris, 
and at twilight found himself opposite, his house in the Champs- 
Elysees. All was dark ; one solitary, feeble light was burning in 
the porter’s lodge, about forty paces distant from the house, as 
Baptistin had said. Monte-Cristo leant against a tree, and, with 
that eye which was so rarely deceived, searched the double 
avenue, examined the passers-by, and carefully looked down the 
neighboring streets, to see that no one was concealed. Ten min- 
utes passed thus, and he was convinced no one was watching him. 
He hastened to the side-door with Ali, entered precipitately, and 
by the servants’ staircase, of which he had the key, gained his 
bedroom without opening or disarranging a single curtain, with- 
out even the porter having the slightest suspicion that the house, 
which he supposed empty, contained its chief occupant. 

Arrived in his bed-room, the count motioned to Ali to stop ; then 
he passed into the dressing-room, which he examined : all was as 
usual— -the precious secretary in its place, and the key in. He 
doubly locked it, took the key, returned to the bedroom-door, re- 
moved the double staple of the bolt, and went in. Meanwhile Ali 
had procured the arms the count required — namely, a short car- 
bine and a pair of double-barrelled pistols. Thus armed, the 
*ount held the lives of five men in his hands. It was about half- 
past nine. Two hours passed thus. It was intensely dark. If 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 

would be his bedroom they would attack, and they must reach tl 
by the back staircase, or by the window in the dressing-room. 
The clock struck a quarter to twelve ; the west wind bore on its 
moistened gusts the doleful vibration of the three strokes. As the 
last stroke died away, the count thought he heard a slight noise in 
the dressing-room ; this first sound, or rather this first scratching, 
was followed by a second, then a third ; at the fourth, the count 
knew what to expect. A firm and well-practised hand was en- 
gaged in cutting out a pane of glass with a diamond. The count 
felt his heart beat more rapidly. Inured as men may be to dan- 
ger, forewarned as they may be of peril, they understand, by the 
fluttering of the heart and the shuddering of the frame, the enor- 
mous difference between dream and reality, between project and 
execution. However, Monte-Cristo only made a sign to apprise 
Ali, who, understanding that danger was approaching from the 
other side, drew nearer to his master. Monte-Cristo was eager to 
ascertain the strength and number of his enemies. 

The window whence the noise proceeded was opposite the open- 
ing by which the count coula sc- into the dressing-room. He 
fixed his eyes on that window — he distinguished a shadow in the 
darkness ; then one of the panes became quite opaque, as if a 
sheet of paper were stuck on the outside, then the square cracked 
without falling. Through the opening an arm was passed to find 
the fastening, then a second ; the window turned on its hinges, 
and a man entered. He was alone. 

*• That’s a daring rascal ! ” whispered the count. 

At that moment Ali touched him slightly on the shoulder. He 
turned ; Ali pointed to the window of the room in which they were, 
facing the street. “ Good ! ” said he, there are two of them ; one 
acts while the other watches.” He made a sign to All not to lose 
sight of the man in the street, and returned to the one in the 
dressing-room. 

The glass-cutter had entered, and was feeling his way, his arms 
stretched out before him. At last he appeared to have made 
himself familiar with all parts. There were two doors ; he bolted 
them both. 

When he drew near to that of the bedroom, Monte-Cristo ex- 
pected he was coming in, and raised one of his pistols ; but he 
simply heard the sound of the bolts sliding in their brass rings. 
It was only a precaution. The nocturnal visitor, ignorant of the 
count’s having removed the staples, might now think himself at 
home, and pursue his purpose with full security. Alone and un- 
controlled, the man then drew from his pocket something which the 
count could not discern, placed it on a stand, then went straight to 
the secretary, felt the lock, and, contrary to his expectation, found 
that the key was missing. But the glass-cutter was a prudent map, 
who had provided for all emergencies. The count soon heard the 
rattling of a bunch of shapeless keys, such as the locksmith 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


3 77 


brings Mien called to force a lock, and which thieves call lock* 
picks. “ Ah, ah ! ” whispered Monte-Cristo, with a smile of dis- 
appointment. “ he is only a thief ! ” 

But the man in the dark coull not find the right key. He 
reached the instrument he had placed on the stand, touched a 
spring, and immediately a pale light, just bright enough to render 
objects distinct, was reflected on the hands and countenance of 
the man. “Hold!” exclaimed Monte-Cristo starting back, “it 
is— 

Ali raised his hatchet. “ Don’t stir,” whispered Monte-Cristo, 
“and put down your ax ; we shall require no arms.” Then he 
added some words in a low tone, for the exclamation which sur- 
prise had drawn from the count, weak as it had been, had startled 
the man, who remained in the position of the old grinder. It was 
an order the count had just given, for immediately Ali went noise- 
lessly, and returned, bearing a black gown and a three-cornered 
hat. Meanwhile Monte-Cristo had rapidly taken off his great- 
coat, waistcoat, and shirt, and one might distinguish by the glim- 
mering through the open panel that he wore a shirt of mail. This 
soon disappeared under a long cassock, as did his hair under a 
priest’s wig ; the three-cornered hat over this effectually transformed 
the count into a priest. 

The man, hearing nothing more, had again raised himself, and, 
while Monte-Cristo was completing his disguise, had advanced 
straight to the secretary, whose lock was beginning to crack under 
his tool. 

“Well done!” whispered the count, who depended on the 
secret spring, which was unknown to the picklock, clever as he 
might be — "Well done! you have a few minutes’ work there.” 
And he advanced to the window. The man whom he had seen 
seated on a fence had got down, and was still pacing the street ; 
but, strange as it appeared, he cared not for those who might pass ; 
his attention was Engrossed with what was passing at the count’s, 
and his only aim appeared to be to discern every movement in 
the dressing-room. 

Monte-Cristo suddenly struck his finger on his forehead, and a 
smile passed over his lips ; then drawing near to Ali, he whis- 
pered : 

“ Remain here, concealed in the dark, and whatever noise you 
hear, whatever passes, only come in or show yourself if I call 
you.” Ali bowed in token of strict obedience. Monte-Cristo 
then drew a lighted taper from a closet, and when the thief was 
deeply engaged with his lock, silently opened the door, taking 
care that the light should shine directly on his face. The door 
opened so quietly that the thief heard no sound ; but, to his as- 
tonishment, the room was in a moment light. He turned. 

“Good evening, dear M. Caderousse ! ” said Monte-Cristo; 
“ what are you doing here at such an hour? ” 


378 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

44 The Abb6 Busoni ! ” exclaimed Caderousse ; and, not know- 
ing how this strange apparition could have entered when he had 
bolted the doors, he let his bunch of keys, and remained motion- 
less and stupefied. The count placed himself between Caderousse 
and the window, thus cutting off from the thief his only chance 
of retreat. 44 Busoni! ” repeated Caderousse, fixing his haggard 
gaze on the count. 

41 Yes, doubtless, Abbe Busoni himself! ” replied Monte-Cristo. 
44 And I am very glad you recongize me, dear M. Caderousse ; it 
proves you have a good memory, for it must be about ten years 
since we last met.” This calmness of Busoni, combined with his 
irony and boldness, staggered Caderousse. 

44 So you would rob the Count of Monte-Cristo? ” continued the 
mock priest. 44 Come, come, I see you are still the same — an 

assassin.” “Since you know everything, you know it was not 

I — it was La Carconte ; that was proved at the trial, since I was 
only condemned to the galleys.” 

44 Is your time, then, exphed, since I find you in a fair way to 
return there ? ” 

44 No, I was liberated by some one.” 

44 That some one has done society a great kindness/* 

44 Ah,” said Caderousse, 44 1 had promised ” 

44 A bad relapse, that will lead you, if I mistake not, to Execu- 
tion Place. So much the worse, so much the worse — diavolo! as 
they say in my country.” 

44 Poverty— — ” 

. 44 Pshaw ! ” said Busoni, disdainfully ; * 4 poverty may make a 
man beg, steal a loaf of bread at a baker’s door, but not cause 
him to open a secretary in a house supposed to be uninhabited. 
And when the jeweler Johannes had just paid you 45,000 francs 
for the diamond I had given you, and you killed him to get the 
diamond and the money both, was that also poverty ? ” 

44 Pardon ! M said Caderousse ; 44 you have saved my life once, 
save me again ! ” 

44 That is but poor encouragement.” 

44 Are you alone, or have you there soldiers ready to seize me?” 
44 1 am alone/* said the abbe, 44 and I will again have pity on 
you and will let you escape, at the risk of the fresh miseries my 
weakness may lead to, if you tell me the truth.” 

44 Ah,” cried Caderousse, clasping his hands, and drawing 
nearer to Monte-Cristo, 44 I may indeed say you are my deliv- 
erer ! 

44 You mean to say you have been freed from confinement? ” 

44 Yes, in truth.” 

44 Who was your liberator? ” 

44 An Englishman, Lord Wilmore.” 44 1 know him ; I shell 

know if you lie. Was this Englishman protecting you ? M 
44 No, not me, but a young Corsican, my companion/' 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


379 


•• What was this Corsican’s name ? ” 

•• Benedetto. He had no other ; he was a foundling.” 

••Then this young man escaped with you ? ” “ He did.” 

•• And what is become of this Benedetto ? ” 

“ No, in truth ; we parted at Hyeres.” And to give more weight 
to his protestation, Caderousse advanced another step towards 
the abbe, who remained motionless in his place, as calm as ever, 
and pursuing his interrogation. “You lie ! ” said Busoni, with a 
tone of irresistible authority. “ You lie ! This man is still your 
friend, and you, perhaps, make use of him as your accomplice.”- 

“Oh, father!” “Since you left Toulon what have you 

lived on? Answer me ! ” “ On what I could get.” 

•• You have lived on the money he has given you.” 

“True! ” said Caderousse: “Benedetto has become the son 
of a great lord, a natural son. The count of Monte-Cristo’s 
the very same in whose house we are.” 

“ Benedetto the count’s son ! ” replied Monte-Cristo, who began 
to understand ; “ and what name does the young man bear mean- 
while ? ” 

“Andrea Cavalcanti.” 

“Is it, then, that young man whom my friend the count of 
Monte-Cristo has received into his house, and who is going to 
marry Mademoiselle Danglars?” 

“ Exactly.” 

“ And you suffer that, you wretch ! — you, who know his life and 
his crime ? ” 

“ Why should I stand in a partner's way ? ” said Caderousse. 
“You are right ; it is not you who should apprise M. Danglars, 
it is I.” 

“ Do not do so, because you would bring us to ruin.” 

“ And you think that to save such villains as you I will become 
an abettor of their plot — an accomplice in their crimes ? ” 

“ Father,” said Caderousse, drawing still nearer. 

“ I will expose all to M. Danglars.” 

“ By Heaven! *’ cried Caderousse, drawing from his waistcoat 
an open knife, and striking the count in the breast, “you shall 
disclose nothing! ” To Caderousse’ s great astonishment, the 
knife, instead of piercing the count’s breast* flew back blunted. 
At the same moment the count seized with his left hand the as« 
sassin’s wrist, and wrung it with such strength that the knife fell 
from his stiffened fingers, and Caderousse uttered a cry of pain. 
But the count, disregarding his cry, continued to wring the 
bandit’s wrist, until, his arm being dislocated, he fell first on his 
knees, then flat on the floor. The count then placed his foot 
on his head, saying. “ I know not what restrains me from crush- 
ing thy skull, rascal ! ” 

“ Ah, mercy — mercy ! ” cried Caderousse. The count withdrew 
his foot. “Rise ! ” said he. Caderousse rose. 


$80 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

“ What a wrist you have, father ! ** said Caderousse, stroking 
his arm, all bruised by the fleshy pincers which had held it, 
“Silence! God gives me strength to overcome a wild beast 
like you ; in the name of that God I act — remember that, wretch I 
— and to spare thee at this moment is still serving Him.” 

“ Oh ! ” said Caderousse, groaning with pain. 

“ Take this pen and paper, and write what I dictate.'* 

“I don’t know how to write.” 

“ You lie ! Take this pen, and write ! ” 

Caderousse, awed by the superior power of the abbe, sat dov 
and wrote : 

“Sir, — The man whom you are receiving at your house, and 
to whom you intend to marry your daughter, is a felon who es* 
caped with me from confinement at Toulon. He was No. 59, 
and I No. 58. He was called Benedetto ; but he is ignorant of 
his real name, having never known his parents.” 

“ Sign it ! ” continued the count. 

Caderousse signed it. “The address, ‘Baron Danglars, 
banker, Chaussee d’Antin.’ Caderousse wrote the address* 
The abbe took the note. “ Now, M said he, “ that suffices — be- 
gone ! ” 

“ You wish me to get out at that window? " 

“You got in very well.” 

“ But swear that you will not strike me as I go down.** 

“ Cowardly fool ! ” 

“Father,” said Caderousse, “make one more trial — try me 
once more ! " 

“I will,” said the count. “If you reach your home safely, 
leave Paris, leave France ; and wherever you may be, so long as 
you conduct yourself well, I will send you a small annuity ; for, 

if you return home safely, then- ” 

“ Then?” asked Caderousse, shuddering, 

“ Then I shall believe God has forgiven you, and I will forgive 
you too.” 

“As true as I am a Christian,” stammered Caderousse, “ you 
will make me die of fright! ” 

He then descended, but it was only when he felt his foot touch 
the ground that he was satisfied he was safe. 

Monte-Cristo returned to his bedroom, and glancing rapidly 
from the garden to the street, he saw first Caderousse, who, after 
walking to the end of the garden, fixed his ladder against the wall 
at a different part from where he came in. The count then, look- 
ing over into the street, saw the man who appeared to be waiting 
run in the same direction, and place himself against the angle of 
the wall where Caderousse would come over. Caderousse climbed 
the ladder slowly, and looked over the coping to see if the stmt 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 38 1 

was quiet. No one could be seen or heard. The clock of the 
Invalides struck one. Then Caderousse sat astride the coping, 
and, drawing up his ladder, passed it over the wall ; then Legan 
to descend, or rather to slide down by the two stanchions, which 
he did with an ease which proved how accustomed he was to the 
exercise. But, once started, he could not stop. In vain did he 
see a man start from the shade when he was half-way down — in 
vain did he see an arm raised as he touched the ground. Before 
he could defend himself that arm struck him so violently in the 
back that he let go the ladder, crying, “ Help ! ” A second stab 
struck him almost immediately in the side, and he fell, calling, 
“Murder!” Then, as he rolled on the ground, his adversary 
seized him by the hair, and struck him a third blow in the chest. 
This time Caderousse endeavored to call again, but he could only 
utter a groan, and he shuddered as the blood flowed from his three 
wounds. The assassin, finding he ho longer cried, lifted his head 
up by the hair ; his eyes were closed, and mouth distorted. The 
murderer, supposing him dead, let fall his head and disappeared. 
Then Caderousse, feeling that he was leaving him, raised himself 
on his elbow, and, with a dying voice, cried, with great effort, 
“ Murder ! I am dying ! Help, father — help ! ” 

This mournful appeal pierced the darkness. The door of the 
back-staircase opened, then the side-gate of the garden, and Ali 
and his master were on the spot with lights. 

“ What is the matter ? ” asked Monte-Cristo. 

“ Help ! '* cried Caderousse ; “ I am murdered 1 M 

“ We are here ; — take courage ! ” 

“Ah, it’s all over! You are come too late ; — you are come to 
see me die. What blows! what blood ! ” He fainted. Ali and 
bis master conveyed the wounded man into a room. Monte-Cristo 
motioned to Ali to undress him, and he then examined his dread- 
ful wounds. “My God!” he exclaimed, “Thy vengeance is 
sometimes delayed, but only that it may fall the more effectually.’* 
Ali looked at his master for further instructions. “ Conduct here 
immediately the Royal Prosecutor Villefort, who lives in the Fau- 
bourg St. Honore. As you pass the lodge, Wake the porter, and 
send him for a surgeon.” Ali obeyed, leaving the abbe alone with 
Caderousse, who had not yet revived. 

When the wretched man again opened his eyes, the count looked 
at him with a mournful expression of pity, and his lips moved as 
if in prayer. “A surgeon, M. l’Abbe — a surgeon! ” said Cade- 
rousse. 

“ I have sent for one,” replied the abbe. 

“ I know we cannot save my life, but he may strengthen me to 
give my evidence against my murderer Benedetto.” 

“ Your comrade ? ” 

“ Yes. After giving me the plan of this house, doubtless 
hoping I should kill the count and he thus become his heir, or that 


382 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

the count would kill me and I should be out of his way, he way- 
laid me and has murdered me.*' 

44 Oh, send for some one to whom I can denounce the wretch 1 " 
44 Shall I write your deposition ? You can sign it.” 

44 Yes, yes,” said Caderousse; and his eyes glistened at the 
thought of this posthumous revenge. Monte-Cristo wrote : 

44 I die murdered by the Corsican Benedetto, my chain-compan- 
ion in the galleys at Toulon, No. 59.” 

44 Quick, quick! ” said Caderousse, 44 or I shall be unable to 
sign it.” 

Monte-Cristo gave the pen to Caderousse, who collected all his 
strength, signed it, and fell back on the .bed, saying : 44 You will 
relate all the rest, M. 1 * Abbe ; you will say he calls himself An- 
drea Cavalcanti. He lodges at the Hotel des Princes. Oh, I am 
dying ! ” He again fainted. The abbe made him smell the con- 
tents of the phial, and he again opened his eyes. His desire for 
revenge had not forsaken him. 

44 He will be guillotined, will he not ? ” said Caderousse. 44 Prom- 
ise me that, and I will die with that hope.” 

44 Remember my words : 4 If you return home safely, I shall be- 
lieve God has forgiven you, and I will forgive you also.* ” 

44 And you did not warn me ! ” cried Caderousse, raising him- 
self on his elbows. 44 You knew I should be killed on leaving this 
house, you should have prevented Benedetto from killing me.” 

44 1?” said the count, with a smile which petrified the dying 
man, 44 when you had just broken your knife against the coat of 
mail which protected my breast ! Yet, perhaps, if I had found 
you humble and penitent, I might have prevented Benedetto from 
killing you ; but I found you proud and blood-thirsty, and I left 
you in the hands of God.” 

44 1 do not believe there is a God ! ” howled Caderousse ; 44 you 
do not believe it : you lie — you lie ! ” 

44 There is a Providence, there is a God,” said Monte-Cristo, 
44 of which you are a striking proof, as you lie in utter despair, de- 
nying Him ; while I stand before you, rich, happy, safe, and en- 
treating that God in whom you endeavor not to believe, while in 
your heart you still believe in Him.”- — 44 But who are you, 
then?” asked Caderousse, fixing his dying eyes on the count. 
44 Look well at me ! ” said Monte-Cristo, putting the light near his 
face. “Well! Abbe Busoni.” Monte-Cristo took off the wig 
which disfigured him, and let fall his black hair, which added so 
much to the beauty of his pallid features. 44 Oh ! ” said Cade- 
rousse, thunderstruck, 44 but for that black hair, I should say you 
were the Englishman, Lord Wilmore.” 

44 1 am neither Abbe Busoni, nor Lord Wilmore,” said Monte- 
Cristo ; “think again, do you not recollect me?” There was a 
magic effect in the count’s words, which once more revived tfef 
exhausted powers of the miserable man* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 383 


44 Yes, indeed,’* said he, 44 1 think I have seen you and known 
you formerly.” 

44 Yes, Caderousse, you have seen me, you knew me once.” 

44 Who then are you? and why, if you knew me, do you let me 
die?” 

44 Because nothing can save you, your wounds are mortal.” 

The count had watched the approach of death. He knew this was 
the last struggle, he approached the dying man, and leaning over 
him with a calm and melancholy look, he whispered, — 44 1 am — I am 

” And his almost closed lips uttered a name so low that the 

count himself appeared afraid to hear it. Caderousse, who had 
raised himself on his knees, and stretched out his arm, tried to 
draw back, then clasping his hands, and raising them with a 
desperate effort, moaned: — “Oh! my God! my God! pardon 
me for having denied Thee ; Thou dost exist : Thou art, indeed, 

man’s father in heaven, and his Judge on earth. My God, my 
Lord, I have long despised Thee ! Pardon me, my God ; receive 
me, O my Lord ! ” Caderousse sighed deeply, and fell back with 
a groan. The blood n6 longer flowed from his wounds. He was 
dead. 

44 One!" said the count, mysteriously, his eyes fixed on the 
corpse, disfigured by so awful a death. Ten minutes afterwards 
the surgeon and the procureur du roi arrived ; the one accom- 
panied by the porter, the other by Ali, and were received by the 
Abbe Busoni, praying by the side of the corpse. 


CHAPTER LIV. 

MORCERF ON THE DEFENCE. 

The daring attempt to rob the count was the topic of converse 
don throughout Paris for the next fortnight : the dying man had 
signed a deposition declaring Benedetto to be the assassin. Th&lt; 
policG had orders to make the strictest search for the murderer. 
Caderousse’s knife, dark lantern, bunch of keys, and clothing, ex- 
cepting the waistcoat, which could not be found, were deposited 
at the registry ; the corpse was conveyed to the Morgue. The 
count told every one this adventure had happened during his ab- 
sence at Auteuil, and that he only knew what was related by the 
Abbe Busoni, who that evening, by mere chance, had requested 
to pass the night in his house to examine some valuable books in 
his library. Bertuccio alone turned pale whenever Benedetto’s 
name was mentioned in his presence : but there was no reason why 
any one should notice his doing so. Villefort, being called on to 
prove the crime was preparing the case with the same ardor as he 
was accustomed to exercise when called on. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


384 

But three weeks had already passed, and the most diligent 
search had been unsuccessful ; the attempted robbery and the 
murder of the robber by his comrade were almost forgotten in an- 
ticipation of the approaching marriage of Mdlle. Danglars to the 
Count Andrea Cavalcanti. It was expected this wedding would 
shortly take place, as the young man was received at the banker’s 
as the betrothed. Letters had been despatched to M. Cavalcanti, 
as the count’s father, who highly approved of the union, regretted 
his inability to leave Parma at that time, and promised a wedding 
gift of a hundred and fifty thousand livres. It was agreed that 
the three millions should be intrusted to Danglars to improve ; 
some persons had warned the, young man of the circumstances 
of his future father-in-law, who had of late sustained repeated 
losses, but with sublime disinterestedness and confidence the young 
man refused to listen, or to express a single doubt to the baron. 
The baron adored Count Andrea Cavalcanti ; not so Mdlle. Eu- 
genie Danglars. With an instinctive hatred of matrimony, she 
suffered Andrea’s attentions in order to get rid of Morcerf; but 
when Andrea urged his suit, she betrayed an entire dislike to him. 
The baron might possibly have perceived it, but attributing it to 
caprice, feigned ignorance. 

The delay demanded by Beauchamp had nearly expired. 
Morcerf appreciated the advice of Monte-Cristo to let things die 
away of their own accord ; no one had taken up the remark about 
the general, and no one had recognized in the officer who betrayed 
the Castle of Janina the noble count in the House of Lords. One 
morning Albert was awoke by his valet, who announced Beau- 
champ. Albert rubbed his eyes, ordered his servant to introduce 
him into the small smoking-room on the ground-floor, dressed 
himself quickly, and went down. He found Beauchamp pacing 
the room : on perceiving him Beauchamp stopped. 

“ Albert,” said Beauchamp, with a look of sorrow which stupe* 
fied the young man, “let us first sit down and talk.” 

“ Rather, sir, before we sit down, I must demand your answer.” 

“Albert,” said the journalist, * I have just returned from 
Janina.” 

“ Impossible ! ” 

“Here is my passport; examine the visas— Geneva, Milan r 
Venice, Trieste, Janina. Will you believe the government of z 
republic, a kingdom, and an empire? '* Albert cast his eyes on 
the passport, then raised them in astonishment to Beauchamp. 
•• You have been to Janina? ” said he. 

“The paragraph was correct, my friend.” 

“What! that French officer ” 

u Yes.” “ The traitor who surrendered the castle of the man 

in whose service he was 

“ Pardon me, my friend, that man was your father ! ” Albeit 
advanced furiously towards Beauchamp, but the latter restrained 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 385 

him more by a mild look than by his extended hand. 11 My 
friend,” said he, “here is a proof of it.” 

Albert opened the paper ; it was an attestation of four notable 
inhabitants of Janina, proving that Colonel Fernand Mondego, in 
the service of Ali Tebelen, had surrendered the castle for two 
million crowns. The signatures were perfectly legal. Albert tot- 
tered and fell overpowered in a chair. It could no longer be 
&lt; doubted : the family name was fully given. 

“I hastened to you,” continued Beauchamp, “ to tell you, 
Albert, in thi.s changing age, the faults of a father cannot revert 
upon his children. Now I have these proofs, Albert, and I am in 
your confidence, no human power can force me to a duel which 
your own conscience would reproach you with as criminal, but I 
come to offer you what you can no longer demand of me. Do you 
wish these proofs, these attestations, which I alone possess, to be 
destroyed ? Do you wish this frightful secret to remain with us ? 
Confided to me, it shall never escape my lips ; say, Albert, my 
friend, do you wish it? ” 

Albert threw himself on Beauchamp’s neck. "Ah! noble 
fellow ! ” cried he. 

“Take these,” said Beauchamp, presenting the papers to 
Albert. 

Albert seized them with a convulsive hand, tore them in pieces ; 
and, trembling lest the least vestige should escape, and one day 
appear to confront him, he approached the waxlight, always kept 
burning for cigars, and consumed every fragment. “ Dear, excel- 
lent friend ! ” murmured Albert, still burning the papers. 

“Let all be forgotten as a sorrowful dream,” said Beauchamp. 

“ I am broken-hearted,” said Albert. “ Listen, Beauchamp 1 I 
cannot thus, in a moment, relinquish the respect, the confidence, 
and pride with which a father’s untarnished name inspires a son. 
Oh ! Beauchamp, Beauchamp ! how shall I now approach mine ? 
Shall I draw back my forehead from his embrace, or withhold my 
hand from his? I am the most wretched of men. Ah ! my 
mother, my poor mother i ” said Albert, gazing through his tears 
at his motner’s portrait ; “if you know this, how much must you 
suffer? '* 

“Come,” said Beauchamp, taking both his hands, “take 
courage, my friend.*’ 

“ What ? ” said Albert, seeing Beauchamp hesitated. 

“ Are you going to marry Mdlle. Danglars.” 

“ Why do you ask me now? ” “ Because the rupture of fuh 

filment this engagement is connected with the purveyor of that 

paragraph.” “How?” said Albert, whose brow reddened: 

“you think, M. Danglars Well, the engagement is broken 

off.” “Well ! ” said Beauchamp. Then, seeing the young man 

was about to relapse into melancholy, “ Let us go out, Albert,” 
*asd he ; “ a ride in the wood in the phaeton, or on horseback, will 
2s 


386 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

refresh you ; we will then return to breakfast, and you shall attend 
to your affairs, and I to mine.” 

But two days after, in the government organ, appeared this 
paragraph : 

“The French officer in the service of Ali, Pacha of Janina, 
alluded to three weeks since in the 1 Impartial,’ who not only sur- 
rendered the castle of Janina, but sold his benefactor to the Turks, 
styled himself truly at that time Fernand, as our honorable brother 
states ; but he has since added to his Christian name a title of no- 
bility and a family name. He now calls himself the Count of 
Morcerf, and ranks among the peers.” 

Thus this terrible secret, which Beauchamp had so generously 
destroyed, appeared again as an armed phantom. 

The same day, a great agitation was manifest in the House of 
Peers among the usually calm groups of the noble assembly. 
Every one had arrived almost before the usual hour, and was con- 
versing on the melancholy event which was to attract the atten- 
tion of the public towards one of their most illustrious members. 
Some were perusing the article, others making comments and re- 
calling circumstances which substantiated the charges still more. 
The count was no favorite with his colleagues. Like all upstarts, 
he hart had recourse to a great deal of haughtiness to maintain his 
position. The true nobility laughed at him, the talented repelled 
him and the honorable instinctively despised him. Such were the 
extremities to which the count was driven : the finger of God once 
pointed at him, every one was prepared to raise the hue and cry 
after him. 

The Count of Morcerf alone was ignorant of the news. He did 
not take in the paper containing the defamatory news, and entered 
the house without observing the hesitation of the door-keepers or 
the coolness of his colleagues. Business had already commenced 
half-an-hour when he entered. At length an honorable peer, 
Morcerf s acknowledged enemy, ascended the tribune with that 
solemnity which announced the expected moment had arrived. 
There was an imposing silence ; Morcerf alone knew not why such 
profound attention was given to an orator who was not always 
listened to with so much complacency. The count did not notice 
the introduction, in which the speaker announced that his commu- 
nication would be of that vital importance that it demanded the 
undivided attention of the House ; but, at the names Janina and 
Colonel Fernand, he turned so awfully pale that every member 
shuddered and fixed his eyes upon him. Moral wounds have this 
peculiarity, they conceal themselves but never close ; always pain- 
ful, always ready to bleed when touched, they remain fresh and 
open in the heart. 

Morcerf was so completely overwhelmed by this enormous and 
unexpected calamity that he could scarcely stammer a few words 
as he looked round on the assembly. The president put it to the 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


387 


Vote, and it was decided the examination should take place. The 
count was asked what time he required to prepare his defence. 
Morcerf’s courage had revived when he found himself alive after 
this horrible blow. “ My lords,” answered he, “it is not by time 
I could repel the attack made on me by enemies unknown to me, 
and, doubtless, hidden in obscurity ; it is immediately ! ” 

A committee of twelve members were chosen to examine the 
proofs brought forward by Morcerf. The examination would com- 
mence at eight o’clock that evening in the committee-room, and, 
if it were necessary to postpone it, it would be resumed each even- 
ing at the same hour. Morcerf asked leave to retire ; he had to 
collect the documents he had long been preparing against this 
storm, which his sagacity had foreseen. 

At eight o’clock all were in their places, and M. de Morcerf en- 
tered at the last stroke. He produced documents, proving that 
the Vizier of Janina had, to the last moment, honored him with 
his entire confidence, since he had entrusted him with a negotia- 
tion of life and death with the emperor. He produced the ring, 
his mark of authority, with which Ali Pacha generally sealed his 
letters, and which the latter had given him that he might, on his 
return at any hour of the day or night, or even in his harem, gain 
access to him. Unfortunately, the negotiation failed, and when 
he returned to defend his benefactor, he was dead. “ But,” said 
the count, “ so great was Ali Pacha’s confidence, that, on his 
death-bed, he resigned his favorite mistress and her daughter to 
my care.” 

Meanwhile, the president carelessly opened a letter which had 
been brought tohim ; but the first lines aroused his attention : he 
read them again and again, and fixing his eyes on M. de Morcerf, 
asked, “ you say the Vizier confided his wife and daughter to your 
care ? ” 

“ Yes, sir,” replied Morcerf, “but in that, like all the rest, mis- 
fortune pursued me ; on my return, Basiliki and her daughter 
Haydee has disappeared.” 

“ Have you any idea what is become of them? ” 

“ Yes, sir ; I heard they had fallen victims to their sorrow, and, 
perhaps, to their poverty. I was not rich ; my life was in constant 
danger ; I could not seek them, to my great regret.” The presi- 
dent frowned imperceptibly. “ Gentlemen,” said he, “you have 
heard the defence. Can you, my lord, produce any witnesses to 
the truth of what you have asserted?” “Alas! no, sir,” re- 

plied the count, “ ail those who surrounded the vizier, or who 
knew me at his court, are either dead or scattered ; alone, I be- 
lieve, of all my countrymen, I survived that dreadful war : I have 
only the letters of Ali Tebelen, which I have placed before you ; 
the ring, a token of his good-will, which is here ; and, lastly, the 
most convincing proof I can offer, namely, after an anonymous at- 
tack. the absence of ali witness against my veracity and the purity 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO, 


3 SS 

of my military life.** A murmur ot approbation ran through the 
assembly. It only remained to put it to the vote, wkn the presi- 
dent resumed : 88 Gentlemen, and you, my lord, you will not be 
displeased, I persume, to listen to one who calls himseh' a very im- 
portant witness, and who has just presented himself. He is, doubt- 
less, come to prove the perfect innocence of our colleague. Here 
is a letter I have just received on the subject ; shall it be read, or 
shall it be passed over? and shall we not regard this incident?’* 
|M. de Morcerf turned pale, and clenched his hands on the papers 
lie held. The committee decided to hear die letter ; the count was 
thoughtful and silent. 

The door-keeper was called. •• Is there any one in the lobby r 69 
said the president. 

A female, accompanied by a servant.** Every one looked at 
his neighbor. •• Introduce the female,** said the president. Five 
minutes after, the door-keeper again appeared : all eyes were fixed 
on the door. Behind the door-keeper walked a female enveloped 
in a large veil, which completely concealed her. It was evident, 
from her figure and the perfumes she had about her, that this was 
a young and elegant woman, but that was all. The president re- 
quested her to throw aside her veil, and it was then seen she was 
dressed in the Grecian costume, and was remarkably beautiful. 

The president himself advanced to place a seat for the young 
lady ; but she declined availing herself of it. As for the count, he 
had fallen on his chair ; it was evident his legs refused to support 
him. 

81 Madam,’* said the president, 88 you have engaged to furnish 
the committee with some important particulars respecting the affair 
at Janina, and you have stated that you were an eye-witness of 

the events.** “I was, indeed! ** said the stranger, with a tone of 

sweet melancholy, and with the sonorous voice peculiar to the 
East. 

V I am Haydee, the daughter of Ali Tebelen, Pasha of Janina, 
and of Basiliki, his beloved wife.** 

The blush of mingled pride and modesty which suddenly 
suffused the cheeks of the young female, the brilliancy of her 
eye, and her highly important communication, produced an inex. 
pressible effect on the assembly. As for the count, he could not 
have been more overwhelmed if a thunderbolt had fallen at his 
feet and opened before him an immense gulf. 

Haydee, still calm, but whose calmness was more dreadful 
than the anger of another would have been, handed to the presi- 
dent the record of her sale, registered in Arabic. It had been 
supposed some of these papers might be in the Arabic, Romaic, or 
Turkish language, and the intepreter of the House was in attend, 
ance. One of the noble peers, who was familiar with the Arabian 
language, having studied it during an Egyptian campaign, fol* 
owed with his eye as the translator read it aloud. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 389 


A dreadful silence succeded the reading of this paper. 

The count had not uttered one word the whole of this time. 
His colleagues looked at him, and doubtless pitied his blighted 
prospects, which sank under the perfumed breath of a woman. 
His misery was depicted by sinister lines on his countenance. 
«* M. de Morcerf,” said the president, “ do you recognize this lady 
as the daughter of Ali Tebelen, Pasha of Janina? ” — — “ No,” said 
Morcert, attempting to rise ; “ it is a base plot, contrived by my 
enemies.” Hay dee, whose eyes had been fixed upon the door, as 
if expecting some one, turned hastily, and, seeing the count, 
shrieked, “ You do not know me ? ” said she. “ Well, I fortunately 
recognize you ! You are Fernand Mondego, the French officer, 
who led the troops of my noble father ! you surrendered the Castle 
of Janina ! you sent by him to Constantinople, to treat with the 
emperor for the life or death of your benefactor, brought back a 
false mandate granting full pardon ! you with that, obtained the 
pacha’s ring, which gave you authority over Selim, the fire- 
keeper ! you who stabbed Selim ! you sold us, my mother and me, 
to the slave merchant, El-Kobbir ! \ssassin ! you have still on 
your brow your master’s blood ! Look, gentlemen, all ! ” 

These words had been pronouncec with such enthusiasm and 
evident truth that they completely changed the opinion of the as* 
sembly respecting the accused nobleman. 

The count looked round him with an expression which mighl 
have softened tigers, but which could nQt disarm his judges. Then 
he raised his eyes toward the ceiling, but withdrew them imme- 
diately, as if he feared the roof would open and reveal to his dis- 
tressed view that second tribunal called heaven, and that other 
judge named God. Then, was a hasty movement, he tore open 
his coat, which seemed to stifle him, and flew from the room like a 
madman ; his footstep with heard one moment in the corridor, then 
the rattling of his carriage-wheels as he was driven rapidly away. 
“Gentlemen,” said the president, when silence was restored, “js, 
the Count of Morcerf convicted of felony., treason, and outrage? ” 
- — “Yes,” replied all the members of the committee of inquiry 
with a unanimous voice. 


CHAPTER LV. 

THE PUBLIC INSULT. 

On hearing this affair, Albert did not wait to consult with his 
father but flew to challenge Danglars, who he learned had sup- 
plied the information to the press. As may readily be believed, 
here was no disposition in the banker to go out on the held ; he 


390 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


hastened to cover himself with the declaration that Monte-Cristo 
has put him on the course to write to Janina. 

Albert, accompanied by Beauchamp, proceeded to the latter s 
residence. 

Beauchamp wished to go in alone ; but Albert observed, as this 
was an unusual circumstance, he might be allowed to deviate 
from the etiquette of duels. The cause which the young man 
espoused was one so sacred, that Beauchamp had only to com- 
ply with all his wishes : he yielded, and contented himself with 
following Morcerf. Albert bounded from the porter’s lodge to the 
steps. He was received by Baptistin. The count had, indeed, 
just arrived, but he was bathing, and had forbidden that any one 
should be admitted. “ But after his bath ? ” asked Morcerf. 

“ He is going to the opera.” ^ 

“ Very good,” replied Albert ; “ that is all I wished to know.” 
Then, turning toward Beauchamp, “if you have anything to at- 
tend to, Beauchamp, do it directly ; If you have any appointment 
for this evening, defer it till to-morrow. I depend on you to ac- 
company me to the opera ; and, if you can, bring Chateau- 
Renaud with you.” 

Beauchamp availed himself of Albert’s permission, and left him, 
promising to call for him at a quarter before eight. On his return 
home, Albert expressed his wish to Franz, Debray, and Morrel, to 
see them at the opera that evening. Then he went to see his 
mother, who, since the events of the day before, had refused to 
see any one, and had kept her room. He found her in bed, 
overwhelmed with grief at this public humiliation. The sight of 
Albert produced the effect which might naturally be expected on 
Mercedes ; she pressed her son’s hand, and sobbed aloud ; but 
her tears relieved her. Albert stood one moment speechless by 
the side of his mother’s bed. It was evident, from his pale and 
face and knit brows, that his resolution to revenge himself was 
growing weaker. “My dear mother,” said he, “do you know 
if M. de Morcerf has any enemy?” Mercedes started; she 
noticed that the young man did not say “my father.” “My 
son,” she said, “persons in the count’s situation have many 
secret enemies. Those who are known are not the most dan- 
gerous. You noticed, on the eveningof the ball we gave, M. de 
Monte-Cristo would eat nothing in our house.” Mercedes raised 
herself on her feverish arm. “ M. de Monte-Cristo!” she ex- 
claimed; “and how is he connected with the question you asked 
me?” 

“ You know, my mother, M. de Monte-Cristo is almost an 
Oriental, and it is customary with them to secure full liberty of 
revenge by not eating or drinking in the house of their 
enemies.” 

“Do you say M. de Monte-Cristo is our enemy ?” replied 
Mercedes, becoming paler than the sheet which covered her. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


39 * 


••Who told you so? Why, you are mad, Albert! M. de Monte- 
Cristo has only shown us kindness. M. de Monte-Cristo saved 
your life ; you, yourself, presented him to us. Oh ! I entreat you, 
my son, if you had entertained such an idea, dispel it ; and my 
counsel to you — even more, my prayer, is, retain this friend- 
ship.” 

An ironical smile passed over Albert’s lips. Mercedes saw it, 
and, with her double instinct of a woman and a mother, she 
guessed all, but, prudent and strong-minded, she concealed both 
her sorrows and her fears. Albert was silent ; an instant after* 
the countess resumed : “You came to inquire after my health ; 

l will candidly acknowledge I am not well. You should install 
yourself here and sheer my solitude. I do not wish to be left 
alone.” 

“ Mother,” said the young man, •• you know how gladly I 
would obey your wish ; but an urgent and important affair obliges 
me to leave you the whole evening.” 

“Well!” replied Mercedes, sighing ; "go, Albert, I will not 
make you a slave to your filial piety.” Albert pretended he did 
not hear, bowed to his mother, and went to his room, and dressed 
with unusual care. At ten minutes to eight Beauchamp arrived ; 
he had seen Chateau-Renaud, who had promised to be in the 
orchestra before the curtain was raised. 

Albert wandered about the theatre until the curtain was drawn 
up. He hoped to meet with Monte-Cristo either in the lobby or 
on the stairs. The bell summoned him to his seat, and he entered 
the orchestra with Chateau-Renaud and Beauchamp. But his 
eyes scarcely quitted the box between the columns, which re- 
mained obstinately closed during the whole of the first act. At 
last, as Albert was looking at his watch, about the hundredth 
time, at the commencement of the second act the door opened, 
and Monte-Cristo, dressed in black, entered, and leaning over the 
front of the box, looked round the pit. Morrel followed him 8 
and looked also for his sister and brother-in-law ; he soon dis- 
covered them in another box, and kissed his hand to them. 

The count, in his survey of the pit, encountered a pale face and 
threatening eyes, which evidently sought to gain his attention. 
He recognized Albert, but thought it better not to notice him, as he 
looked so angry and discomposed. Without communicating his 
tnouglits to h\3 companion, he sat down, drew out his opera-glass, 
and looked another way. Although apparently not noticing 
Albert, he did not, however, lose sight of him ; and when the 
curtain fell at the end of the second act, he saw him leave the 
orchestra with his two friends. Then his head was seen passing 
at the back of the boxes, and the count knew the approaching 
storm was intended to fall on him. He was at the moment con- 
versing cheerfully with Morrel, but he was well prepared for what 
might happen. The door opened, and Monte-Cristo, turning 


J 92 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 

round, saw Albert, pale and trembling, followed by Beauchamp 
and Chateau-Renaud. 

“ Well,” cried he, with that benevolent politeness which dis- 
tinguished his salutation from the common civilities of the world, 
‘‘my cavalier has attained his object. Good evening, M. de 
Morcerf.” The countenance of this man, who possessed such 
extraordinary control over his feelings, expressed the most per- 
fect cordiality. Morrel only then recollected the letter he had 
received from the viscount, in which, without assigning any rea- 
son, he begged him to go to the opera, but he understood that 
something terrible was brooding. 

“We are not come here, sir, to exchange hypocritical expres- 
sions of politeness, or false professions of friendship/* said Albert, 
“ but to demand an explanation, count/* The trembling voice 
of the young man was scarcely audible. “ An explanation at the 
opera? ’* said the count, with that calm tone and penetrating eye 
which characterizes the man who knows his cause is good. “ Little 
acquainted as I am with the habits of Parisians, I should not have 

thought this the place for such a demand.” “ Still, if people 

will shut themselves up/* said Albert, “and cannot be seen be- 
cause they are bathing, dining, or asleep, we must avail ourselves 
the opportunity whenever they are to be seen/* 

“ I am not difficult of access, sir/* These words were heard 
by those in the adjoining boxes and in the lobby. Thus the at- 
tention of many was attracted by this altercation. “Where are 
you come from, sir? You do not appear to be in the possession ol 
your senses.” 

“ Provided I understand your perfidy, sir, and succeed in mak- 
ing you understand that I will be revenged, I shall be sane 
enough/* said Albert, furiously. 

“I do not understand you, sir,” replied Monte-Cristo ; “and 
if I did, your tone is too high. I am at home here, and I alone 
have a right to raise my voice above another’s, l^eave the box, 
sir! ** Monte-Cristo pointed toward the door with the most com* 
manding ^dignity. “Ah! I shall know how to make you leave 
your home ! ” replied Albert, clasping in his convulsed grasp the 

glove, which Monte-Cristo did not lose sight of. “ Well, well ! ’* 

said Monte-Cristo, quietly, “ I see you wish to quarrel with me ; 
but I would give you one counsel, and do not forget it : it is a bad 
habit to make a display of a challenge. Public display is not be- 
coming to every one, M. de Morcerf.” At this name a murmur 
of astonishment passed round the group of spectators of this 
scene. They had talked of no one but Morcerf the whole day. 
Albert understood the allusion in a moment, and was about to 
throw his glove at the count, when Morrel seized his hand, while 
Beauchamp and Chateau-Renaud, fearing the scene would sur- 
pass the limits of a challenge, held him back. But Monte-Cristo, 
Without rising, and leaning forward in his chair, merely extende4 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


m 


his hand, and taking the damp, crushed glove from the clenched 
hand of the young man, — “Sir,” said he, jn a solemn tone, “l 
consider your glove thrown, and will return it you round a bullet. 
Now, leave me, or I will summon my servants to throw you out 
at the door." 

Wild, almost unconscious, and with eyes inflamed, Albert 
stepped back, and Morrel closed the door. Monte-Cristo took up 
his glass again as if npthing had happened : he certainly must 
h?ve had a heart of brass and face of marble. Morrel whispered, 
* 4 What have you done to him ? " 

41 The Count de Morcerfs downfall exasperates the young 
man." 

44 Have you anything to do with it ? " 

“It was by Haydee the house was informed of his father’s 
treason." 

41 Indeed ! " said Morrel. “ I had been told, but would not 
credit it, that the Greek slave I have seen with you here in this 
very box was the daughter of Ali Pacha." 

44 It is, notwithstanding, true." 

44 Then," said Morrel, “ I understand it all, and this scene was 
premeditated." “ How so ? ” 

“ Yes. Albert wrote to request me to come to the opera, doubt- 
less that I might be a witness to the insult he meant to offer you." 

11 Probably," said Monte-Cristo, with his imperturbable tran- 
quility. 

“ But what will you do with him ? " 

“As certainly, Maximilian, as I now press your hand, I will 
kill him before ten o’clock to-morrow morning.” 

Morrel, in his turn, took Monte-Cristo’s hand in both of his, 
and he shuddered to feel how cold and steady it was. He saw it 
was useless to say more, and refrained. The curtain, which had 
been drawn up during the scene with Albert, again fell, and a rap 
was heard at the door. 

“ Come in ! ” said Monte-Cristo, without his voice betraying the 
least emotion ; and immediately Beauchamp appeared. 

•' I have come only to make arrangements for the duel," said 
Beauchamp. 

“ It is quite immaterial to me," said Monte-Cristo, 44 and it was 
very unnecessary to disturb me at the opera for such a trifle. Tell 
your client that, although I am the insulted party, in order to 
carry out my eccentricity, I leave him the choice of arms, and 
will accept without discussion, without dispute, anything, even 
combat by drawing lots, which is always stupid, but with me dif- 
ferent from other people, as I am sure to gain. I shall kill him — I 
cannot help it. Only by a single line this evening at my house, 
let me know the arms and the hour ; I do not like to be kept wait- 
ing."— — “ Pistols, then, at eight o’clock, in the Bois de Vin- 
cennes," said Beauchamp, quite disconcerted, not knowing if h® 


394 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


was dealing with an arrogant braggadocio or a supernatural 
being. 

“ Very well, sir,” said Monte-Cristo. ** Now all that is settled, 
do let me see the performance, and tell your friend Albert not to 
come any more this evening ; he will hurt himself with all his ill- 
chosen barbarisms: let him go home and go to sleep.” Beau- 
champ left the box, perfectly amazed. 

M. de Monte-Cristo waited, according to his usual custom, until 
(the tenor had sung his famous “ Suivez-moi ; ” then he rose, and 
went out. Morrel took leave of him at the door, to be with him 
the next morning at seven o’clock, and to bring Emmanuel with 
him, as seconds. Then he stepped into his coupe , calm and smiling, 
and was at home in five minutes. No one who knew the count 
could mistake his expression, when, on entering, he said, “ Ali, 
bring me my pistols with an ivory butt.” 

Ali brought the box to his master, who examined his arms with 
a solicitude very natural to a man who is about to intrust his life 
to a little powder and shot. These were saloon pistols. A cap 
was sufficient to drive out the ball, and from the adjoining room 
no one would have suspected the count was keeping his hand in. 
He was just taking one in his hand, and looking for the point to 
aim at, on a little iron plate, which served him as a target, when 
his cabinet-door opened, and Baptistin entered. Before he had 
spoken a word the count perceived in the next room a female, 
veiled, who had followed closely after Baptistin, and now seeing 
the count with a pistol in his hand and swords on the table, rushed 
in. Baptistin looked at his master, who made a sign to him, and 
he went out, closing the door after him. 

The stranger cast one look around her, to be certain they were 
quite alone, then bending, as if she would have knelt, and joining 
her hands, she said, with an accent of despair, — “ Edmond, you 
will not kill my son?” The count retreated a step, uttered a 
slight exclamation, and let fall the pistol he held. 

" What name did you pronounce then, Mdme. de Morcerf ? ” 
said he. 

" Yours! ” cried she, throwing back her veil, — •• yours, which 
I alone, perhaps, have not forgotten. Edmond, it is not Mdme. 

de Morcerf who is come to you, it is Mercedes.” “ Mercedes is 

dead, madame,” said Monte-Cristo ; “ I know no one now of that 
name.” 

&gt;, “ Mercedes lives, sir, and she remembers, for she alone recog* 

nized you when she saw you, and even before she saw you, by 
4 your voice, Edmond, — by the mere sound of your voice, and from 
that moment she has followed your steps, watched you, feared 
you, and she needs not to inquire what hand has dealt the blow 
which 'how strikes M. de Morcerf.” 

“ Fernand, do you mean?” replied Monte-Cristo, with bitten 
irony * “ since we are recalling names, let us remember them alb 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


395 


Monte*Cristo had pronounced the name of Fernand with such 
an expression of hatred, that Mercedes felt a thrill of horror run 
through every vein. 

“ You see, Edmond, I am not mistaken, and have cause to say, 
J Spare my son ! ' ” 

“ Madame, it is not I who strike M. de Morcerf ; it is Providence 
which punishes him.” 

“And why do you represent Providence?” cried Mercedes. 
“ Why do you remember, when it forgets? What are Janina and 
its vizier to you, Edmond? What injury has Fernand Mondego 
done you in betraying Ali Tebelen ? ” 

“ And, madame,” replied Monte-Cristo, “all this is an affair 
between the French captain and the daughter of Basiliki. It 
does not concern me, you are right ; and if I have sworn to re- 
venge myself, it is not on the French captain, nor on the Count 
de Morcerf, but on the fisherman Fernand, the husband of the 
Catalan Mercedes.” 

“ Ah ! sir,” cried the countess, “ how terrible a vengeance for a 
fault which fatality made me commit ! for I am the only culprit, 
Edmond ; and if you owe revenge to any one, it is to me, who 
had not fortitude to bear your absence and my solitude. 

“But,” exclaimed Monte-Cristo, “why was I absent? And 
why were you alone ? ” 

“ Because you had been arrested, Edmond, and were a prisoner.” 

“ And why was I arrested? Why was I a prisoner? ” 

“ I do not know,” said Mercedes. 

“ You do not, madame ; at least, I hope not. But I will tell 
you. I was arrested and became a prisoner, because in the 
arbor of La Reserve, the day before I was to marry you, a man 
named Danglars wrote this letter which the fisherman Fernand 
himself posted.” Monte-Cristo went to a secretary, opened a 
drawer by a spring, from which he took a paper which had lost its 
original color, and the ink of which had become a rusty hue ; this 
he placed in the hands of Mercedes. It was Danglars’ letter 
to the prosecutor, which Monte-Cristo, disguised as a clerk from the 
house of Thomson and French, had taken from the bundle of 
Edmond Dantes, on the day he had paid the two hundred thou- 
sand francs to M. de Boville. Mercedes read with terror the fatal 
lines. 

“ How dreadful ! ” said Mercedes, passing her hand across hef 
brow, moist with perspiration ; “ and that letter ” 

“ I bought it for two hundred thousand francs, madame,” said 
Monte-Cristo ; “ but that is a trifle, since it enables me to justify 
myself to you.” 

“ And the result of that letter ” 

“ You well know, madame, was my arrest ; but you do not 
know how long that arrest lasted. You do not know that I re- 
mained for fourteen years within a quarter of a league of you, in 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


396 


1 dungeon in the Chateau d'lf. You (Jo not know that each day 
of those fourteen years I renewed the vow of vengeance which I 
had made the first day ; and yet I knew not you had married 
Fernand, my libellor, and that my father had died of hunger! " 

44 Can it be ? " cried Mercedes, shuddering. 

“That is what 1 heard on leaving my prison, fourteen years 
after I had entered it, and that is why, on account of the living 
Mercedes and my deceased father, I have sworn to revenge 
myself on Fernand, and — I have revenged myself.' * 

“ And you are sure the unhappy Fernand did that? " 

“ I am satisfied, madame, he did what I have told you; be- 
sides, that is not much more shameful than a Frenchman, by 
adoption, having passed over to the English ; a Spaniard, by 
birth, having fought against the Spaniards ; a stipendiary of Ali 
having betrayed and murdered Ali. Compared with such things, 
what is the letter you have just read? A lover’s deception, which 
the woman who has married that man ought certainly to forgive, 
but not so the lover who was to have married her. Well ! the 
French did not avenge themselves on the traitor ; the Spaniards 
did not shoot the traitor ; Ali, in his grave, left the traitor un- 
punished ; but I, betrayed, sacrificed, buried, have risen from my 
grave, by the grace of God, to punish that man. tie sends me 
for that purpose, and here I am." The poor woman's head and 
arms fell ; and she fell on her knees. 4 Forgive, Edmond, forgive 
for my sake, who love you still ! " 

The dignity of the wife stopped the enthusiasm c f the lover and 
the mother. Her forehead almost touched the a rpet, when the 
count sprang forward and raised her. 

The count, fearing to yield to the entreaties of her he had so 
ardently loved, recalled his sufferings to the assistance of his 
hatred. , 

“ Revenge yourself then, Edmond," cried the poor mother ; 
“ but let your vengeance fall on the culprits ; on him, on me, but 
^not on my son ! " Monte-Cristo groaned, and seized his beauti- 
ful hair with both hands. 


f “Edmond," continued Mercedes, with her arms extended 
toward the count, 44 since I first knew you, I have adored your 
name, have respected your memory. Edmond, my friend, do not 
compel me to tarnish that noble and fine image reflected inces- 
santly on the mirror of my heart. Edmond, if you knew all the 
prayers I have addressed to God for you while I thought you were 
living and since I have thought you must be dead! Yes, dead, 
alas ! And I, too, Edmond — oh ! believe me — guilty as I was— 
oh ! yes, I too, have suffered much ! " 

'* Have you guessed that your father died in your absence ? '* 
cried Monte-Cristo, again thrusting his hands in his hair ; “haye 
you seen the woman you loved giving her hand to your rival whil® 
you were perishing at the bottom of a dungeon ? " 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CPUS TO , 


39? 


“ No/* interrupted Mercedes, *‘but I have seen him whom 3 
loved on the point of murdering my son.' 1 Mercedes pronounced 
these words with such deep anguish, with an accent of such in- 
tense despair, that Monte-Cristo could not restrain a sob. The 
lion was daunted; the avenger was conquered. “What do you 
ask of me ? ” said he, — “ your son’s life ? Well ! he shall live ! ” 
Mereedes uttered a cry which made the tears start from Monte- 
Cristo’ s eyes ; but these tears disappeared almost instantaneously, 
for, doubtless, God had sent some angel to collect them ; far more 
precious were they in his eyes than the richest pearls of Guzeral 
and of Ophir. 

“ Oh ! ” said she, seizing the count’s hand, and raising it to hef 
lips ; “ oh ! thank you, thank you, Edmond ! now you are exactly 
what I dreamt you were, such as I always loved you. Oh ! now 
I may say so.” 

“So much the better,” replied Monte-Cristo; “as that poor 
Edmond will not have long to be loved by you. Death is about 
to return to the tomb, the phantom to retire in darkness. You do 
not suppose, that publicly outraged in the face of a whole theatre, 
in the presence of your friends and those of your son — challenged 
by a boy, who will glory in my pardon as in a victory — you do not 
suppose I can for one moment wish to live. What I most loved 
after you, Mercedes, was myself, my dignity, and that strength 
which rendered me superior to other men ; that strength was my 
life. With one word you have crushed it, and I die.” 

“ But the duel will not take place, Edmond, since you forgive ? " 
“ It will take place,” said Monte-Cristo, in a most solemn tone' 
“but instead of your son’s blood which will stain the ground, min 
will flow.” 

“ Edmond,” said Mercedes, “ I have but one word more to say 
to you, though you will see my face is pale, my eyes dull, my 
beauty gone ; Mercedes, in short, no longer resembles her forme! 
self, though her heart is still the same. Adieu, then, Edmond ; 1 
have nothing more to ask of Heaven — I have seen you again— 
and have found you as noble and as great as formerly you were, 
Adieu. Edmond, adieu, and thank you.” 

The clock struck one when the carriage which conveyed Mdme, 
de Morcerf away rolled on the pavement and made Monte-Cristo 
raise his head. *' What a fool I was,” said he, “ not to tear my 
heart out on the day when I resolved to avenge myself I M 


CHAPTER LVI. 

THE ENCOUNTER* 

AFTER Merc£d£s had left Monte-Cristo, a gloomy shadow 
Seemed to overspread everything. Around him and within him 


398 * THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


the flight of tnought appeared stopped ; his energetic mind slum- 
bered, as does the body after extreme fatigue. “ What,” said he 
to himself, while the lamp and the wax lights were nearly burnt 
out, and the servants were waiting impatiently in the anteroom ; 
“ what ! this edifice which I have been so long preparing — which 
I have reared with so much care and toil, is to be crumbled by a 
single touch, a word, even a slight breath ! Yes, this creature of 
whom I thought so much, I was so proud, after appearing so 
worthless in the dungeons of the Chateau d’lf, and whom 1 had 
succeeded in making so great, will be but a lump of clay to-mor- 
row. Alas ! it is not the death of the body I regret ; but the ruin 
of projects, so slowly carried out, so laboriously framed. Provi- 
dence is now opposed to them, when I most thought it would be 
propitious. It is not God’s will they should be accomplished. 
This burden, almost as heavy as a world, which I had raised, and 
I had thought to bear to the end, was too great for my strength, 
and I was compelled to lay it down in the middle of my career. 
And all this — all this, because my heart, which I thought dead, 
was only sleeping ; because it has awoke and has beaten again ; 
because I have yielded to the pain of the emotion excited in my 
breast by a woman’s voice. 

“ Folly ! to carry generosity so far as to place myself as a mark 
for that young man to aim at. He will never believe my death 
was a suicide ; and yet it is important for the honor of my mem- 
mory, — and this, surely, is, not vanity, but a justifiable pride, — it 
is important the world should know that I have consented, by my 
free will, to stop my arm, already raised to strike, and that with 
that arm, so powerful against others, I have struck myself. It 
must be, it shall be.” Seizing a pen, he drew a paper from a 
secret drawer in his bureau, and traced at the bottom of that 
paper, which was no other than his will, drawn since his arrival in 
Paris, a codicil, clearly explaining the nature of his death. ** I do 
this, O my God! ” said he, with his eyes raised to heaven, “as 
much for Thy honor as for mine. I have during ten years con* 
sidered myself the agent of Thy vengeance ; and other wretches, 
like a Morcerf, a Danglars, a Villefort, even that Morcerf himself, 
must not imagine that chance has freed them from their enemy. 
Let them know, on the contrary, that their punishment, which had 
been decreed by Providence, is only delayed by my present determ- 
ination ; and although they escape it in this world, it awaits them 
in another, and that they are only exchanging time for eternity.” 

While he was thus agitated by these gloomy uncertainties, these 
wretched waking dreauns of grief, the first rays of twilight pierced 
his windows, and shone upon the pale blue paper on which he had 
just traced his justification of Providence. It was just five 
o’clock in the morning, when a slight noise reached his ear, which 
appeared like a stifled sigh ; he turned his head, looked around 
him, and saw no one ; but t he sound was repeated distinctly 


^2 


enough to convince him of its reality. He arose, and quietly 
(Opening the door of the drawing-room, saw Haydee, who had 
fallen on a chair with her arms hanging down, and her beautiful 
head thrown back. She had been standing at the door to prevent 
his going out without seeing her, until sleep, which the young can- 
not resist, had overpowered her frame, wearied as she was with T 
watching so long. The noise of the door did not awaken her, and 
Monte-Cristo gazed at her with affectionate regret. “ She remem- 
bered she had a son,’' said he ; " and I forgot I had a daughter.” 
Then, shaking his head sorrowfully, " Poor Haydee! ” said he ; 

" she wished to see me to speak to me, she has feared or guessed 
something. Oh ! I cannot go without taking leave of her ; I can- 
not die without confiding her to some one.” He quietly regained 
his seat, and wrote under the other lines, — 

" I bequeath to Maximilian Morrel, captain, and son of my 
former patron, Pierre Morrel, shipowner at Marseilles, the sum of 
twenty millions, a part of which may be offered to his sister Julia 
and brother-in-law Emmanuel, if he does not fear this increase of 
fortune may mar their happiness. These twenty millions are con- 
cealed in my cave at Monte-Cristo, of which Bertuccio knows the 
secret. If his heart is free, and he will marry Haydee, the daugh- 
ter of Ali, pasha of Janina, whom I have brought up with the love 
of a father, and who has shown the love and tenderness of a 
daughter for me, he will thus accomplish my last wish. This will 
has already constituted Haydee heiress of the rest of my fortune ; 
which, without the twenty millions, and the legacies to my serv- 
ants, may still amount to sixty millions.” &lt; 

He was finishing the last line when a cry behind him made him 
start, and the pen fell from his hrnd, “ Haydee,” said he, “ did 
you read it ? ” 

" Oh! my lord,” said she, " why are you writing thus at such 
an hour? why are you bequeathing all your fortune to me? Are 
you going to leave me ? M 

" I am going on a journey, dear child,” said Monte-Cristo, with 
an expression of infinite tenderness and melancholy ; “ and if any 
misfortune should happen to me ” The count stopped. , 

"Well! if you die,” said she, "bequeath your fortune to 
others; for, if you die I shall require nothing ; ” and, taking the 
paper, she tore it in pieces and threw it into the middle of the room. 
Then, the effort having exhausted her strength, she fell, not asleep 
this time, but fainting on the floor. 

" Alas ! ” murmured he, w r ith intense suffering ; "I might then 
have been happy yet.” Then he carried Haydee to her room, 
resigned her to the care of her attendants, and returning to his 
cabinet, which he shut quickly this time, he again copied the de- 
stroyed will. As he was finishing, the sound of a cab entering 
the yard was heard. Monte-Cristo approached the window, and 
saw Maximilian and Emmanuel alight. " Good ! ” said he ; "it 


400 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


v/as time,” and he sealed his will. One moment afterwards he 
heard a noise in the drawing-room, and went to open the door 
himself. Morrel was there, he had come twenty minutes before 
the time appointed. 44 I am, perhaps, come too soon, count,’* 
said he, 44 but I frankly acknowledge, I have not closed my eyes 
all night, nor any one in my house. I required to see you strong 
in your courageous asshrance, to recover myself.” Monte-Cristo 
could not resist this proof of affection, he not only extended his 
hand to the young man, but flew to him with open arms. “ Mor- 
rel,” said he, 14 it is a happy day for trie, to feel I am beloved by 
such a man as you. Good morning, Emmanuel ; you will come 
with me then, Maximilian?” 

" Did you doubt it ? ” said the young captain. 

44 But if I were wrong ” 

•* I watched you during the whole scene of that challenge 
yesterday ; I have been thinking of your firmness all this night, 
and I said, 4 Justice must be on your side, or man’s countenance 
is no longer to be relied on.’ ” 

Then ringing the bell once, 44 Look,” said the count to Ali, who 
came immediately, “take that to my lawyer’s. It is my will, 
Morrel. When I am dead, you will go and examine it.” 

44 What ! ” said Morrel, 44 you dead ? ” 

44 Yes : must I not be prepared for everything, dear friend? * 

44 I hoped to get an exchange of arms, to substitute the sword 
for the pistol, the pistol is blind .”— — 44 Have you succeeded?” 
asked Monte-Cristo, quickly, with an imperceptible gleam of hope. 

44 They postively refused.” 44 Morrel,” said the count, 44 have 

you ever seen me fire a pistol? ” 44 Never.” 

44 Well, we have time ; look.” Monte-Cristo took the pistols he 
held in his hand when Mercedes entered, and fixing an aefe of 
clubs against the iron plate, with four shots he successively shot 
off the four stems of the club. At each shot Morrel turned pale. 
He examined the balls with which Monte-Cristo performed this 
dexterous feat, and saw that they were no larger than deer-shot. 
44 It is astonishing!” said he ; “look, Emmanuel.” Then turn- 
ing towards Monte-Cristo: 44 Count,” said he, “in the name of 
all that is dear to you, I entreat you not to kill Albert! the un- 
happy youth has a mother, wound him— -but not kill him.” 

44 I will tell you, Morrel,” said the count, 44 that I do not need 
entreating to spare the life of M. de Morcerf ; he shall be so well 
spared, that he will return quietly with his two friends, while Mor- 
cerf will kill me.” Morrel looked at him in Utter unconscious- 
ness. 44 But what has happened, then, since last evening, 

count ?*’ 44 The same thing which happened to Brutus the 

night before the battle of Philippi ; I have seen a phantom.” 

And that phantom ” 

44 Told me, Morrel, I had lived long enough.” Maximilian and 
Emmanuel looked at each other. Monte-Cristo drew out his 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


401 


watch. “ Let us go/’ said he ; “it is five minutes past seven, and 
the appointment was for eight o’clock.” A carriage was in readi- 
ness at the door. Monte-Cristo stepped into it with his two friends. 
As the clock struck eight, they drove up to the place of meeting. 

Morrel walked over to Beauchamp and Chateau-Renaud, who 
came to meet them. They saluted affably or at least courteously. 

Meanwhile Albert had arrived within ten paces of the group 
formed by the five young men. He jumped from his horse, threw 
the bridle on his servant’s arms, and joined them. He was pale, 
and his eyes were red and swoollen ; it was evident that he had 
not slept. A shade of melancholy gravity overspread his count- 
enance, which was not natural to him. “ I thank you, gentle- 
men,” said he, “ for having complied with my request ; I feel ex- 
tremely grateful for this mark of friendship.” 

“ M. Morrel,” said Chateau-Renaud, “will you notify the 
Count of Monte-Cristo that M. de Morcerf is arrived, and we are 
at his command ? ” Morrel was preparing to fulfil his commission. 
Beauchamp had meanwhile drawn the pistol-case from the car- 
riage. “ Stop, gentlemen ! ” said Albert * “ I have two words to 
say to the Count of Monte-Cristo.” 

“ In private ? ” asked Morrel. 

“ No, sir ; before all who are here.” 

“ What does he want with me ? ” said Monte-Cristo. 

“ Approach, gentlemen,” said Albert ; “ I wish you not to lose 
one word of what I am about to have the honor of saying to the 
Count of Monte-Cristo ; for it must be repeated by you to all who 
will listen to it, strange as it may appear to you.” 

“ Proceed, sir,” said the count. 

* * Sir,” said Albert, at first with a tremulous voice, but which grad- 
ually became firmer ; “ I reproached you with exposing the conduct 
of M. de Morcerf in Epirus, for, guilty as I knew he was, I thought 
you had no right to punish him ; but I have since learned you have 
that right. It is not Fernand Mondego’s treachery towards Ali 
Pasha which induces me so readily to excuse you, but the treach- 
ery of the fisherman Fernand toward you, and the almost un- 
heard-of miseries which were its consequences; and I say, and 
proclaim it publicly, that you were justified in revenging yourself 
on my father ; and I, his son, thank you for not using greater 
severity.” Had a thunderbolt fallen in the midst of the spectators 
of this unexpected scene, it would not have surprised them more 
than did Albert's declaration. As for Monte-Cristo, his eyes 
slowly rose toward heaven with infinite gratitude. He could not 
understand how Albert’s bravery, of which he had seen so much 
among the Roman bandits, had suddenly stooped to this humilia- 
tion. He recognized the influence of Mercedes, and saw why her 
noble heart had not opposed the sacrifice she knew beforehand 
would be useless. “Now, sir,” said Albert, “if you think my 
apology sufficient, pray give me your hand. Next to the merit of 
*6 


402 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


infallibility which you appear to possess, I rank that of candidly 
acknowledging a fault. But this confession concerns me only. I 
acted well as a man, but you have acted better than man. An 
angel alone could have saved one of us from death— that angel 
came from heaven, if not to make us friends (which, alas ! fatality 
renders impossible), at least to make us esteem each other.” 
Monte-Cristo, with moistened eye, heaving breast, and lips half 
open, extended to Albert a hand, which the latter pressed with a 
sentiment resembling respectful fear. 

“ Providence still ! ” murmured the departing count ; “ now only 
am I fully convinced of being the emissary of God ! ’’ 

In a quarter of an hour Albert was entering the mansion. As 
he alighted, he thought he saw behind the curtain of the count’s 
bedroom his father’s pale face. Albert turned away his head with 
a sigh, and went to his own apartments. 

His servant, notwithstanding his prohibition, came to his room. 
•‘What do you want?” asked he, with a more sorrowful than 
angry tone. “ Pardon me, sir,” replied the valet ; “ you had for- 
bidden me to disturb you, but the Count of Morcerf had called 
me* Since he has sent, it is doubtless to question me on what 
happened. What must I answer ? ” 

“ You will say I apologized to the Count of Monte-Cristo. 
Go. ” 

The valet bowed and retired, and Albert returned to his invent- 
ory. As he was finishing this work, the sound of horses prancing 
in the yard, and the wheels of a carnage shaking his window, at- 
tracted his attention. He approached the window, and saw his 
father get into it, and it drove away. The door was scarcely closed 
when Albert bent his steps to his mother’s room ; and no one being 
there to announce him, he advanced to her bedroom, and, dis- 
tressed by what he saw and guessed, stopped for one moment at the 
door. As if the same soul had animated these two beings, Merce- 
des was doing the same in her apartments as he had had just done. 

“Oh, my mother!” exclaimed Albert, so overcome he could 
scarcely speak, “ it is not the same with you and me — you cannot 
have made the same resolution I have, for I am come to warn you 
that I bid adieu to your house, and — and to you ! ” 

“I also,” replied Mercedes, “am going, and I acknowledge 
I had depended on your accompanying me ; have I deceived my- 
self? ’’ 

“ My mother,” said Albert, with firmness, “I cannot make you 
share the fate I have planned for myself. I must live henceforth 
without rank and fortune, and to begin this hard apprenticeship I 
must borrow from a friend the loaf I shall eat until I have earned 
one. So, my dear mother, I am going at once to ask Franz to 
lend me the small sum I shall require to supply my present 
wants.” 

° Albert, my child,” said Mercedes, “ if I had a stronger heart* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


403 


that is the counsel I would have given you ; your conscience has 
spoken when my voice became too weak ; listen to its dictates. 
Do not despair ; you have life before you, my dear Albert, for you 
are yet scarcely twenty-two years old ; and as a pure heart like 
yours wants a spotless name, take my father’s — it was Herrera. I 
am sure, my Albert, whatever may be your career, you will soon 
render that name illustrious. Then, my friend, return to the world 
still more brilliant from the reflection of your former sorrows ; and 
if am wrong, still let me cherish these hopes, for I have no future 
to look forward to : for me the grave opens when I pass the thresh- 
old of this house.’* 

“ 1 will fulfil all your wishes, my dear mother,** said the young 
man. “Yes, 1 share your hopes ; the anger of Heaven will not 
pursue us — you so pure, and me so innocent. But since our reso- 
lution is formed, let us act promptly. M. de Morcerf went out 
about half an hour since ; the opportunity is favorable to avoid an 
explanation.” 

“ I am ready, my son,** said Mercedes. Albert ran to fetch a 
hack ; he recollected where his mother would find a humble but 
decent lodging, and thither he intended conducting her. As the 
hackney-coach stopped at the door, and Albert was alighting, a 
man approached, and gave him a letter. Albert recognized th* 
bearer. “ From the count,” said Bertuccio. Albert took the 
letter, opened it, and read it ; then looked round for Bertuccio, 
but he was gone. He returned to Mercedes, with tears in his eyes 
and heaving breast, and, without uttering a word, he gave her the 
letter. Mercedes read : 

c 

Albert, — While showing you that I have discovered your 
plans, I hope also to convince you of my delicacy. You are free, 
you leave the count’s hotel, and you take your mother to your 
home ; but reflect. Albert, you owe her more than your poor 
noble heart can pay her. Keep the struggle for yourself, bear all 
the suffering, but spare her the trial of poverty which must accom- 
pany your first efforts ; for she deserves not even the shadow of 
the misfortune which has this day fallen on her, and Providence 
wills not the innocent should suffer for the guilty. I know you 
are going to leave the Rue du Helder without taking anything 
with you ; do not seek to know how I discovered it ; I know it — 
that is sufficient. Now, listen, Albert. Twenty-four years ago I 
returned, proud and joyful, to my country. I had a betrothed. 
Albert, a lovely girl, whom I adored, and I was bringing to my 
betrothed a hundred and fifty louis, painfully amassed by cease- 
less toil. This money was for her ; and, knowing the treachery of 
the sea, I buried our treasure in the little garden of the house my 
father lived in at Marseilles. Your mother, Albert, knows that 
poor house well. It was under a beautifiul fig-tree my father had 
planted the day I was born* which overshadowed the spot, Well, 


404 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


Albert, this money, which was formerly designed to promote the 
comfort and tranquillity of the woman I adored, may now, from a 
Strange and painful circumstance, be devoted to the same pur- 
pose. Oh, feel for me, whc could offer millions to that poor 
woman, but who return her omy the piece of bread, forgotten 
under my poor roof since the day I was torn from her I loved. 
You are a generous man, Albert, but perhaps you may be blinded 
by pride or resentment ; if you refuse me, if you ask another for 
what I have a right to offer you, I will say it is ungenerous of you 
to refuse the life of your mother at the hands of a man whose 
father was allowed to die in all the horrors of poverty and despair 
by your father / 1 

Albert stood pale and motionless to hear what his mother would 
decide after she had finished reading this letter. Mercedes 
turned her eyes with an ineffable look toward heaven. “ I ac- 
cept it,” said she; “he has a right to pay the dowery, which I 
shall take with me to some convent ! ” Putting the letter in her 
corsage, she took her son’s arm, and, with a firmer step than she 
even herself expected, she went down-stairs. 


CHAPTER LVII. 

THE SUICIDE. 

MEANWHILE Monte-Cristo had also returned home. Every 
transport of a daughter finding a father, all the delight of a mis- 
tress seeing an adored lover, were felt by Haydee during the first 
moments of this meeting, which she had so eagerly expected. Doubt- 
less, although less evident, Monte-Cristo’s joy was not less intense ; 
joy to hearts which have suffered long is like the dew on the ground 
after a long drought ; both the heart and the ground absorb that 
beneficent moisture falling on them, and nothing is outwardly ap- 
parent. 

Monte-Cristo was beginning to think, what he had not for a long 
time dared to believe, that there were two Mercedes in the world, 
and he might yet be happy. His eye, elate, with happiness, was 
( reading eagerly the moistened gaze of Haydee, when suddenly 
the door opened. The count knit his brow. “ M. de Morcerf ! ” 
said Baptistin, as if that name sufficed for his excuse. In fact, the 
count’s face brightened. “ Ask M. de Morcerf into the drawing- 
room,” said he to Baptistin, while he led the beautiful Greek girl 
to a private staircase. 

The general was pacing the room the third time, when, in turn- 
ing, he perceived Monte-Cristo at the door. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE C FIS TO. 


405 

•‘Why! it is M. de Morcerf,” said Monte-Cristo, quietly; “I 
thought I had heard wrong. 

“ Yes, it is I,” said the count, whom a frightful contraction of 
the lips prevented from articulating freely. 

“ May I know the cause which procures me the pleasure of see* 
ing M. de Morcerf so early? ” 

“ Had you not a meeting with my son this morning ? ” asked the 
general. 

“ I had,” replied the count. 

“ And I know my son had good reasons to wish to fight with 
you, and to endeavor to kill you. Doubtless you made, then, 
some apology or explanation ? ” 

“ I explained nothing, and it is he who apologized to me, a re- 
sult I expected.” 

“ You expected my son would be a coward ! ” cried the count. 

; “ M. Albert de Morcerf is no coward ! ” said Monte-Cristo. 

“ A man who holds a sword in his hand, and sees a mortal en- 
emy within reach of that sword, and does not fight, is a coward ! 
Why is he not here, that I may tell him so ? ” 

“ Sir,” replied Monte-Cristo, coldly, “ I did not expect you had 
come here to relate to me your little family affairs. Go and tell 
M. Albert that, and he may know what to answer you.” 

“Oh, no, no!” said the general, smiling faintly, “I did not 
come for that purpose ; you are right ! I came to tell you that I 
also look upon you as my enemy ! I came to tell you that I hate 
you instinctively ? That it seems as if I had always known you, 
and always hated you ; and, in short, since the young men of the 
present day will not fight, it remains for us to do so till one of us 
is dead ! ” said the general, whose teeth were clenched with rage. 

•* Until one of us dies,” repeated Monte-Cristo, moving his 
head slightly up and down. 

“Let us start, then ; we need no witnesses.” 

“Truly,” said Monte-Cristo, “ it is unnecessary, we know each 
other so well ! ” 

“ On the contrary,” said the count, “ we know so little of each 
other. 

“ Indeed ! ” said Monte-Cristo, with the same indomitable cool- 
ness ; “let us see. Are you not the soldier Fernand who deserted on 
the eve of the battle of Waterloo ? Are you not the Lieutenant 
Fernand who served as guide and spy to the French army in 
Spain? Are you not the Captain Fernand who betrayed, sold, 
and murdered his benefactor, Ali ? And have not all these Fer- 
nands, united, made the Lieutenant-General de Morcerf, peer of 
France ? ” 

“ Oh ! ” cried the general, as if branded with a hot iron, 
“ wretch ! to reproach me with my shame, when about, perhaps, 
to kill me. No, I did not say I was a stranger to you ; I know 
well, demon, that you have penetrated into the darkness of the 


io6 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


past, and that you hav e read, by the light of what torch 1 know 
not, every page of my life : but, perhaps, I may be more honor- 
able in my shame than you under your pompous coverings. No 
— no, I am aware you know me ; but I know you not, adventurer, 
sewn up in gold and jewelry. You have called yourself, in Paris, 
the Count of Monte-Cristo ; in Italy, Sinbad the Sailor ; in Malta, 
I forget what. But it is your real name I want to know, in the 
midst of your hundred names, that I may pronounce it when we 
meet to fight, at the moment when I plunge my sword through 
your heart.” 

The Count of Monte-Cristo turned dreadfully pale, his eye 
seemed to burn with a devouring fire ; he bounded toward a 
dressing-room near his bedroom, and, in less than a moment, 
tearing off his cravat, his coat and waiscoat, he put on a sailor’s 
jacket and hat, from beneath which rolled his long black hair. 
He returned thus, formidable and implacable, advancing with his 
arms folded, toward the general, who could not understand why 
he had disappeared : but who on seeing him again, and feeling his 
teeth chatter and his legs sink under him, drew back, and only 
stopped when he found a table to support his clenched hand. 

“ Fernand,” cried he, “ of my hundred names I need only tell 
you one, to overwhelm you ! But you guess it now ; do you not ? 
— or, rather, you remember it? For, notwithstanding all my sor- 
rows and my tortures, I show you to-day a face which the happiness 
of revenge makes you again— a face you must often have seen in 
your dreams since your marriage with Mercedes, my betrothed ! ” 

The general, with his head thrown back, hands extended, gaze 
fixed, looked silently at this dreadful apparition ; then seeking the 
wall to support him, he glided along close to it until he reached 
the door, through which he went out backwards, uttering this 
single mournful, lamentable, distressing cry, — “ Edmond Dantes ? ” 

Then, with sighs which were unlike any human sound, he drag- 
ged himself to the door, reeled across the courtyard, and falling 
into the arms of his valet, he said, in a voice scarcely intelligible, 
— 11 Home ! home ! ” Two persons were coming down the stairs : 
he had only time to creep into a cabinet to avoid them. It was 
Mercedes leaning on her son’s arm and leaving the hotel. They 
passed close by the unhappy being, who, concealed behind the 
damask door, almost felt Mercedes’ dress brush past him, and 
his son’s warm breath pronouncing these words,— 4 ‘ Courage, my 
mother ! Come, this is no longer our home ! ” 

The words died away, the steps were lost in the distance. The 
general drew himself up, clinging to the door ; he uttered the most 
dreadful sob which ever escaped from the bosom of a father aban- 
doned at the same time by his wife and son. He soon heard the 
clatter of the iron step of the hackney-coach, then the coachman’s 
voice, and then the rolling of the heavy vehicle shook the windows. 
He darted to his bedroom to see once more all he had loved in the 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


40 7 


world ; but the hackney-coach drove on without the head of 
either Mercedes or her son appearing at the window to take a last 
look at the house or the deserted father or husband. And at the 
very moment when the wheels of that coach crossed the gateway 
a report was heard, and a thick smoke escaped through one of the 
panes of the window, which was broken by the explosion. 


CHAPTER LVIII. 

VALENTINE. 

On leaving Monte-Cristo, Morrel walked slowly towards Ville- 
fort’s. Noirtier and Valentine had given him leave to go twice a 
week, and he was now availing himself of that permission. He 
arrived ; Valentine was expecting him. Uneasy and almost wan- 
dering, she seized his hand and led him to her grandfather. This 
uneasiness, amounting almost to wildness, arose from the report 
Morcerf’s adventure had made in the world ; the affair of the 
opera was generally known. Morrel could read an indescribable 
joy in the eyes of his beloved, when she knew that the termina- 
tion of this affair was as happy as it was unexpected. 

“ Now,” said Valentine, motioning to Morrel to sit down near 
her grandfather, while she took her seat on his footstool, “now 
let us talk about our own affairs. You know, Maximilian, grand- 
papa once thought of leaving this house, and taking an apartment 
away from M. de Villefort’s. He asserts the air here is not good 
for me.” 

“ Indeed ! ” said Morrel ; “ in that M. Noirtier may be right ; 

your health has not appeared good the last fortnight.” “ Not 

very,” said Valentine. “And grandpapa is become my physi- 
cian ; and I have the greatest confidence in him, because he 
knows everything.” 

“ Do you then really suffer? ” asked Morrel, quickly. 

•* Oh, it must not be called suffering ; I feel a general depression, 
that is all. I have lost my appetite.” Noirtier did not lose a 
word of what Valentine said. “ And what treatment do you adopt 
for this singular complaint? ” “ A very simple one,” said Val- 

entine. “ I swallow every morning a spoonful of the mixture pre- 
pared for my grandfather. When I say one spoonful, I began by 
one — now I take four. Grandpapa says it is a panacea.” Valen- 
tine smiled, but it was evident she' suffered. 

Maximilian, in his devotedness, gazed silently at her. She was 
very beautiful, but her usual paleness had increased ; her eyes 
were more brilliant than ever, and her hands, which were gener- 
ally white like mother-of-pearl, now more resembled wax, towhid? 
time was adding a yellowish hue. 


408 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


1 But/* said Morrel, " I thought this mixture, of which you now 
\iake four spoonfuls, was especially prepared for M. Noirtier?” 

11 1 know it is very bitter,” said Valentine ; " so bitter, that all I 
drink afterwards appears to have the same taste.” Noirtier looked 
inquiringly at his granddaughter. "Yes; grandpapa,” said Val- 
entine ; “ it is so. Just now, before I came down to you, I drank 
a glass of sugar and water ; I left half, because it seemed so bit- 
ter. Noirtier turned pale, and made a sign that he wished to 
speak. Valentine rose to fetch the dictionary. Noirtier watched 
her with evident anguish. The blood was rushing to the girl’s 
head : her cheeks were becoming red. " Oh ! ” cried she, without 
losing any of her cheerfulness, "this is singular! A dimness! 
Did the sun shine in my eyes.” And she leaned against the win- 
dow. 

"The sun is not shining,” said Morrel, more alarmed by Noir- 
tier’s expression than by Valentine’s indisposition. He ran to- 
wards her. The girl smiled. "Comfort yourself!” said she to 
Noirtier. "Do not be alarmed, Maximilian; it is nothing, and 
has already passed away. But listen ! Do I not hear a carriage 
in the courtyard?” She opened Noirtier’s door, ran to a window 
in the passage, and returned hastily. "Yes,” said she, "it is 
Mdme. Danglars and her daughter, come to call on us. Good- 
bye ! I must run away, for they would send here for me ; or, 
rather, farewell till I see you again. Stay with grandpapa, Maxi- 
milian ; I promise you not to persuade them to stay.” 

Morrel watched her as she left the room ; he heard her ascend 
the little staircase which led both to Mdme. de Villefort’s apart- 
ments and to hers. As soon as she was gone, Noirtier made a 
sign to Morrel to take the dictionary. Morrel obeyed ; guided by 
Valentine, he had learned how to understand the old man quickly. 
Accustomed, however, as he was, and having to repeat most of the 
letters of the alphabet, and to find every word in the dictionary, 
it was ten minutes before the thought of the old man was translated 
by these words, " Fetch the glass of water and the decanter from 
Valentine’s room.” Morrel rang immediately for the servant who 
had taken Barrois* situation, and in Nortier’s name gave that or« 
der. The servant soon returned. The decanter and the glass 
were completely empty. Noirtier made a sign that he wished to 
speak. "Why are the glass and decanter empty?” asked he , 
" Valentine said she only drank half the glassful.’* The transla- 
tion of this new question occupied another five minutes. " I do 
not know,” said the servant, " but the housemaid is in Mdlle. 

Valentine’s room; perhaps she has emptied them.” "Ask 

her,” said Morrel, translating Noirtier’s thought this time by his 
look. The servant went out, but returned almost immediately. 
" Mdlle. Valentine passed through the room to go to Mdme. 
de Villefort’s,” said he ; " and in passing, as she was thirsty, she 
drank what remained in the glass ; as for the decanter, M. Ed 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


40Q 


wara uaa emptied that to make a pon for his ducks.’ Noirtief 
raised his eyes to heaven, as a gambler does who stakes his all on 
one stroke. From that moment the old man’s eyes were fixed on 
the door, and did not quit it. 

It was indeed Mdme. Danglars and her daughter whom Valen- 
tine had seen ; they had been ushered into Mdme. de Villefort’ s 
room. 44 My dear friend,” said the baroness, while the two young 
people were shaking hands, 41 we come to be the first to announce 
to you the approaching marriage of my daughter with Prince Cav- 
alcanti.” Danglars kept up the title of Prince. The popular 
banker found it answered better than count. “ Allow me to pre- 
sent you my sincere congratulations,” replied Mdme. de Villefort. 
44 Prince Cavalcanti appears a young man of rare qualities.” 

44 And,” said Mdme. de Villefort, 44 1 need not ask you if you 
share this liking ? ” 

44 I ! ” replied Eugenie, with her usual candor. 44 Oh, not the 
least in the world, madame ! But, since I am to be married 
whether I will or not, I ought to be thankful to Providence for 
having released me from my engagement with M. Albert de 
Morcerf, or I should this day have been the wife of a dishonored 
man.” 44 It is true,” said the baroness. We have had a nar- 

row escape.” 

Deeply engaged in inward contemplation, Valentine had ceased 
for a moment to join in the conversation. She would, indeed, 
have found it impossible to repeat what had been said the last 
few minutes, when suddenly Mdme. Danglars’ hand, pressed on 
her arm, aroused her from her lethargy. 

44 What is it ? ” said Eugenie, 44 you are very pale ! ” 

44 Oh, do not be alarmed ! I have been so for some days.” 

Artless as she was, the maiden knew this was an opportunity to 
leave, besides, Mdme. de Villefort came to her assistance. 44 Re- 
tire, Valentine,” said she ; “you are really suffering, and these 
ladies will excuse you ; drink a glass of water, it will restore you.” 
Valentine kissed Eugenie, bowed to Mdme. Danglars, who had al- 
ready risen to take her leave, and went out. 44 The poor child,” 
said Mdme. de Villefort, when Valentine was gone, 44 she makes 
me very uneasy, and I should nc^ be astonished if she had some 
serious illness.” 

Meanwhile, Valentine, in excitement which she could not quite 
understand, had crossed Edward’s room without noticing some 
trick of the imp, and through her own rooms had reached the lit- 
tle stair-case. She was at the bottom excepting three steps ; she 
already heard Morrel’s voice, when suddenly a cloud passed over 
her eyes, her stiffened foot missed the step, her hands had no power 
to hold the baluster, and, falling against the wall, she rolled down 
these three steps rather than walked. Morrel bounded to the door, 
opened it, and found Valentine extended on the floor. Rapid as 


4io 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


lightning, he raised her in his arms and placed her in a chaff. 
Valentine opened her eyes. 

“ Comfort yourself, dear grandpapa,” said she, endeavoring to 

smile; “it is nothing — I was giddy, that is all.” “Another 

giddiness ! ” said Morrel, clasping his hands. “Oh, attend to it, 

Valentine, I entreat you.” “ But no,” said Valentine, — “no, 

I tell you it is all past, and it was nothing. “ Oh ! ” you are too 
timid for an officer, for a soldier who, they say, never knows fear. 
Ah!” She burst into a forced and melancholy laugh, her arms 
stiffened and twisted, her head fell back on her chair, and she 
remained motionless. The cry of terror which was stopped on 
Noirtier’s lips, seemed to start from his eyes. Morrel understood 
it ; he knew he must call assistance. The young man rang the 
bell violently ; the housemaid, and the servant who had replaced 
Barrois, ran in at the same moment. Valentine was so pale, so 
cold, so inanimate, that, without listening to what was said to 
them, they were seized with the fear which pervaded that house, 
and they flew into the passage crying for help. Mdme. Danglars 
and Eugenie were going out at that moment ; they heard the cause 
of the disturbance. 

“ I told you so ! ” cried Madame de Villefort. “ Poor child ! ” 

At the same moment M. de Villefort’ s voice was heard calling 
from his cabinet, “What is the matter?” Morrel consulted 
Noirtier’s look, who had recovered his self-command, and with a 
glance indicated the closet where, once before, under somewhat 
circumstances, he had taken refuge. He had only time to get his 
hat, and throw himself breathless into the closet ; the master’s 
footstep was heard in the passage. Villefort sprang into the 
room, ran to Valentine, and took her in his arms. “ A physician! 
a physician ! M. d’Avrigny ! ” cried Villefort ; “ or rather I will 
go for him myself.” He flew from the apartment, and Morrel, 
at the same moment, darted out at the other door. At the same 
time Monte-Cristo’s voice seemed to resound in his ear, who had 
said, only two hours before, “ Whatever you want, Morrel, come 
to me ; I have some power.” 

Meanwhile M. de Villefort arrived in a hired cab at M. 
d’Avrigny ’s door. He rang so violently that the porter catfie 
alarmed. Villefort ran up-stairs without saying a word. The 
porter knew him, and let him pass, only calling to him, “ In his 
cabinet.” Villefort pushed, or rather forced, the door open. 
“ Ah ! ” said the doctor, “ have you another invalid? ” 

“ Yes, doctor,” cried Villefort, seizing, with a convulsive grasp, 
a handful of hair, “ it is Valentine’s turn ! ” 

“Your daughter! ” cried D’Avrigny, with grief and surprise. 

“You see you were deceived,” murmured the magistrate; 
" come and see her, and on her bed of agony entreat her pardon 
for having suspected her.” 

“Each time you have applied to me,” said the doctor, “i t 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


AH 

fias been too late : still I will go. But let us make haste, sir ; 
with the enemies you have to do with there is no time to be lost.” 

“Oh! this time, doctor, you shall not have to reproach me 
with weakness. This time I will know the assassin, and will 
pursue him.” 

“ Let us try first to save the victim before we think of reveng- 
ing her,” said D’Avrigny. “ Come.” The same cab which had 
brought Villefort took them back at full speed, at the same mo- 
ment when Morrel rapped at Monte-Cristo’s door. The count 
was reading, with an angry look, something which Bertuccio 
had brought in haste. Hearing Morrel announced, the count 
raised his head. He, as well as the count, had evidently 
been much tried during those two hours, for he had left him 
smiling, and returned with a disturbed air. The count rose, and 
sprang to meet him. “What is the matter, Maximilian?” asked 
he. 

“ I have just left a house where death has just entered, to 

Tun to you.” “ From M. de M. de Morcerf s ? ” asked Monte- 

Cristo. 

“ No,” said Morrel ; “is some one dead in his house ? ” 

“ The general has just blown his brains out,” replied Monte- 
Cristo, with great coolness. 

“ Oil ! what a dreadful event ! ” cried Maximilian. 

“ Not for the countess, nor for Albert,” said Monte-Cristo ; “a 
dead father or husband is better than a dishonored one : blood 
washes out shame.” 

“Poor countess!” said Maximilian, “I pity her very much ; 
she is so noble a woman ! ” 

“Pity Albert also, Maximilian; for, believe me, he is the 
worthy son of the countess. But let us return to yourself : you 
have hastened to me ; can I have the happiness of being useful 
to you ? ” 

“Yes, I need your help; that is, I thought, like a madman, 
you could lend me your assistance in a case where God alone can 
succor me.” 

“ Tell me what it is,” replied Monte-Cristo. 

“ One evening I was in a garden ; a clump of trees concealed 
me ; no one suspected I was there. Two persons passed near 
me — allow me to conceal their names for the present ; they were 
speaking in an under-tone, and yet I was so interested in what 
they said, that I did not lose a single word.” 

“This is a gloomy introduction, if I may judge from your 
paleness and shuddering, Morrel.” 

“Oh ! yes, very gloomy, my friend ! Some one had just died 
in the house to which that garden belonged. One of those per- 
sons whose conversation I overheard was the master of the 
house, the other, the physician. The former was confiding to the 
latter his grief and fear ; for it was the second time within a month 


412 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


that death had entered suddenly and unexpectedly that house, 
apparently destined to destruction by some exterminating angel, 
as an object of God’s anger/' ''And what did the doctor 
answer?” asked Monte-Cristo. 

“ He replied — he replied, that the death was not a natural one, 
and must be attributed to poison.” 

“Indeed!” said Monte-Cristo, with a slight cough, which, in 
moments of extreme emotion, helped him to disguise a blush, or 
his paleness, or the intense interest with which he listened 1 “ in- 
deed, Maximilian, did you hear that ? ” “ Yes, my dear count, 

l heard it ; and the doctor added, that if another death occured 
in a similar way, he must appeal to justice.” Monte-Cristo lis- 
tened, or appeared to do so, with the greatest calmness. “ Well ! ’’ 
said Maximilian, “ death came a third time, and neither the master 
of the house nor the doctor said a word. Death is now, perhaps 
striking a fourth blow. Count, what am I bound to do, being in 
possession of this secret ? ” 

“ My dear friend,” said Monte-Cristo, “ you appear to be re- 
lating an adventure which we all know by heart. I know the 
house where you heard it, or one very similar to it. You were 
walking one eveniug in M. de Villefort’s garden : from what you 
relate, I suppose it to have been the evening of Mdme. de 
Saint-Meran’s death. You heard M. de Villefort talking to 
M. d’Avrigny about the death of M. de Saint-Meran, and that, 
no less surprising, of the countess. M. d’Avrigny said he be- 
lieved they both proceeded from poison ; and you, honest man, 
have ever since been asking your heart, and sounding your con- 
science, to know if you ought to expose or conceal this secret. 
It is a family of Atrides ; God has condemned them, and they 
must submit to their punishment. They will all disappear, like 
the fabrics children build with cards, and which fall, one by one, 
under the breath of their builder, even if there are two hundred 
of them. Three months since, it was M. de Saint-M6ran ; Mme. 
de Saint-Meran two months since ; the other day it was Barrois : 
to-day, old Noirtier, or young Valentine.” 

“You knew it?” cried Morrel, in such a paroxysm of terror 
that Monte-Cristo started ; he whom the falling heavens would 
have found unmoved ; “ you knew it, and said nothing ?” 

“And what is it to me?” replied Monte-Cristo, shrugging his 
shoulders : “ do I know those people ? and must I lose the one to 
save the other? Faith, no, for between the culprit and the victim 
I have no choice.” 

“ But I,” cried Morrel, groaning with sorrow, — “ I love her! ” 

“ You love ? — whom ? ” cried Monte-Cristo, starting on his feet, 
and seizing the two hands which Morrel was raising towards 
heaven. 

Valentine de Villefort, who is being murdered at this moment ! 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 413 

JDo you understand me ? I love her ; and I ask God and you how 
I can save her? ” 

Monte-Cristo uttered a cry which those only can conceive who 
have heard the roar of a wounded lion. “Unhappy man ! ” 
cried he, wringing his hands in his turn ; “ you love Valentine ! — 
that daughter of an accursed race ! ” Never had Morrel wit- 
nessed such an expression — never had so terrible an eye flashed 
before his face — never had the genius of terror he had so often 
seen, either on the battle-field or in the murderous nights of 
Algeria, shaken around him more dreadful fire. He drew back 
terrified. 

As for Monte-Cristo, after this ebullition, he closed his eyes, as if 
dazzled by internal light. In a moment he restrained himself so 
powerfully that the tempestuous heaving of his breast subsided, as 
turbulent and foaming waves yield to the sun’s genial influence 
when the cloud has passed. This silence, self-control, and strug- 
gle lasted about twenty seconds, then the count raised his pallid 
face. 

“I tell you to hope. Do you understand me ? ” cried Monte- 
Cristo. “ Remember that I never uttered a falsehood and am 
never deceived. It is twelve o’clock, Maximilian : thank Heaven 
that you came at noon rather than in the evening, or to-morrow 
morning. Listen, Morrel ! — it is noon ; if Valentine is not now 
dead, she will not die.” 

“Oh! count, you overwhelm me with that coolness. Have 
you, then, power against death? — Are you superhuman? — Are 
you an angel ?” And the young man, who had never shrunk from 
danger, shrank before Monte-Cristo with indescribable terror. But 
Monte-Cristo looked at him with so melancholy and sweet a smile, 
that Maximilian felt the tears filling his eyes. 

“ I can do much for you, my friend,” replied the count. “ Go ; 
I must be alone.” Morrel, subdued by the extraordinary ascen- 
dency Monte-Cristo exercised over everything around him, did not 
endeavor to resist it. He pressed the count’s hand, and left. 

Meanwhile, Villefort and D’Avrigny had made all possible 
haste, Valentine had not revived from her fainting fit on their ar- 
rival, and the doctor examined the invalid with all the care the 
circumstances demanded, and with an interest which the knowl- 
edge of the secret doubled. Villefort, closely watching his coun« 
tenance and his lips, waited the result of the examination. Noir° 
tier, paler than even the girl, more eager than Villefort for the de- 
cision, was watching also intently and affectionately. At last 
D’Avrigny slowly uttered these words : — “ She is still alive ! ” 

They carried Valentine away to her own rooms ; she had re- 
vived, but could scarcely move or speak, so shaken was her frame 
by the attack. She had, however, just power to give her grand- 
father one parting look ; who, in losing her, seemed to be resign- 
ing his very soul, D’Avrigny followed the invalid, wrote a pre* 


4*4 


THE 'CO UNTO F MONTE CRISTO. 


scription, ordered Villefort to take a cab, go in person to a chem* 
ist’s to get the prescribed medicine, bring it himself, and wait for 
him in his daughter’s room. Then, having renewed his injunc- 
tion not to give Valentine anything, he went down again to Noir* 
tier, shut the doors carefully, and after convincing himself no one 
was listening, said, “ Do you know anything of this young lady's 
illness ? ” 

“Yes,” said the old man. 

“ We have no time to lose ; I will question, and do you answer 
me.” Noirtier made a sign that he was ready to answer. “ Did 
you see poor Barrois die?” Noirtier raised his eyes to heaven. 
“ Do you know of what he died ? ” asked D’Avrigny, placing his 

hand on Noirtier’ s shoulder. “ Yes,” replied the old man. 

“ Do you think he died a natural death? ” A sort of smile was 
discernible on the motionless lips. 

“ Then you have thought Barrois was poisoned ? ” “ Yes.” 

“ Do you think the poison he fell a victim to was intended for 
him?” 

“ No.” “ Do you think the same hand which unintentionally 

struck Barrois has now attacked Valentine ? ” “ Yes.” 

“ Then will she die, too?” asked D’Avrigny, fixing his pene- 
trating gaze on Noirtier. He watched the effect of this question 
on the old man. “No!” replied he, with an air of triumph 
which would have puzzled the most clever diviner. “Then you 
hope?” said D’Avrigny, with surprise, “Yes.” 

“What do you hope? that the assassin will be tried ? ” “ No.* 

“Then you hope the poison will take no effect on Valentine? ' ' 

“Yes.” 

“It is no news to you,” added D’Avrigny, “ to tell you an at- 
tempt has been made to poison her? ” The old man made a sign 
that he entertained no doubt upon the subject. “ Then how do 
you hope Valentine will escape ? ” Noirtier kept his eyes steadily 
fixed on the same spot. D’Avrigny followed the direction, and 
saw they were fixed on a bottle containing the mixture which he 
took every morning. “ Ah ! ah ! ” said D’Avrigny, struck with a 
sudden thought, “ has it occurred to you to prepare her system to 

resist poison?” “And you have succeeded!” exclaimed 

D’Avrigny. “ Without that precaution Valentine would have died 
before assistance could have been procured. The dose has been 
excessive, but she has only been shaken by it ; and this time, at 
any rate, Valentine will not die.” A super-human joy expanded 
the old man’s eyes, which were raised toward heaven with an ex- 
pression of infinite gratitude. At this moment Villefort returned. 
41 Here, doctor,” said he, “is what you sent me for.” 

“ Was this prepared in your presence ? ” 

“ Yes,” replied the lawyer, 

“Hava you not let it go out of your hands ? ”~-™“ No. ,f 
D’Avrigny took the bottle/poured some drops of the mixture ip 


"HE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


4IS 

contained in the hollow of his hand, and swallowed them. 
*« Well,” said he, t% let us go to Valentine ; I will give instructions 
to every one, and you, M. de Villefort, will yourself see that no 
one deviates from them.” 

At the moment when D’Avrigny was returning to Valentine’s 
room, accompanied by Villefort, an 'Italian priest, of serious de- 
meanor and calm and firm tone, hired for his use the house ad- 
joining the hotel of M. de Villefort. No one knew why the three 
former tenants of that house left it. About two hours afterwards 
its foundation was reported to be unsafe ; but the report did not 
prevent the new occupant establishing himself there with his mod- 
est furniture the same day at five o’clock. The lease was drawn 
Up for three, six, or nine years by the new tenant, who, according 
to the rule of the proprietor, paid six months in advance. This 
new tenant,, was called Signor Giacomo Busoni. Workmen were 
immediately called in, and the same night the passengers saw with 
surprise carpenters and masons occupied in repairing the lower 
part of the tottering house. 


CHAPTER LIX. 

THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT. 

Toward five o’clock in the afternoon of the day fixed for tne 
signing of the contract between Mdlle. Danglars and Andrea 
Cavalcanti, as a fresh breeze shook the leaves in the little garden 
situated in front of the count of Monte-Cristo’s house, and the lat- 
ter was preparing to go out while his horses were impatiently paw- 
ing the ground, held in by the coachman, who had been seated a 
quarter of an hour on his box, the elegant phaeton with which we 
are familiar, rapidly turned the angle of the entrance-gate, and 
threw, rather than set down, on the steps of the door, M. Andrea 
Cavalcanti, as much decked and as gay as if he, on his side was 
going to marry a princess. He inquired after the count with his 
usual familiarity, and, bounding lightly to the first story, met him 
on the top of the stairs. The count stopped on seeing the young 
man. As for Andrea, he was launched, and when once launched 
nothing stopped him. “Ah! good morning, my dear count,” 
said he. il Ah, M. Andrea ! ” said the latter, with his half-jesting 
tone ; “ how do you do.” 

“ Charmingly, as you see. I am come to talk to you about a 
thousand things.” 

The count returned to a small drawing-room on the first 
floor, sat down, and, crossing his legs, motioned to the young 
man to take a seat also. Andrea assumed his gayest man- 
ner- “ You know, my dear count,” said he, “the ceremony is 


4.1 6 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


to take place this evening. At nine o’clock the contract is to be 

signed at my father-in-law’s.” “Ah! indeed?” said Monte- 

Cristo, “you are fortunate, M. Cavalcanti! it is a most suitable 
alliance you are contracting, and Mdlle. Danglars is a pretty 
girl.” 

“Yes, indeed she is,” replied Cavalcanti, with a very modest 

tone. 

“Above all, she is very rich,— at least, I believe so,” said 
Monte-Cristo : “it is said M. Danglars conceals at least half of 
his fortune.” 

“ And he acknowledges fifteen or twenty millions,” said Andrea, 
with a look sparkling with joy. 

“ Without reckoning,” added Monte-Cristo, “ that he is on the 
eve of entering into a railroad speculation by which it is gener. 
ally believed he will gain ten millions.” 

“Ten millions! Do you think so? It is magnificent ! ” said 
Cavalcanti, quite confounded at the metallic sound. 

“Without reckoning,” replied Monte-Cristo, “that all his for- 
tune will come to you, and justly too, since Mdlle. Danglars is an 
only daughter. Besides* your own fortune, as your father assured 
me, is almost equal to that of your betrothed. But, enough of 
money matters. Do you know, M. Andrea, I think you have 
managed this affair rather skilfully ? ” 

“ Not badly, by any means,” said the young man ; “ I was born 

for a diplomatist. But I must not forget one grand point.” 

“Which? ” 

“ That I have been singularly assisted by your lordship.” 

“ By me? Not at all, prince,” said Monte-Cristo, laying a 
marked stress on the title ; “ what have I done for you? Are not 
your name, social position, and merit sufficient?” 

“No,” said Andrea, — “no; it is useless for you to say so, 
count. I maintain that the position of a man like you has done 
more than my name, my social position, and my merit.” 

“You are completely mistaken, sir,” said Monte-Cristo, coldly, 
who felt the perfidious manoeuvre of the young man, and under- 
stood the bearing of his words; “you only acquired my protec- 
tion after the influence and fortune of your father had been ascer* 
tained ; “ for, after all, who procured for me, who had never seen 
either you or your illustrious father, the pleasure of your acquaint- 
ance? — Two of my good friends, Lord Wilmore and Abbe Busoni. 
What encouraged me not to become your surety, but to patronize 
you? — It was your father’s name so well known in Italy and so 
highly honored. Personally, I do not know you.” This calm one 
and perfect ease made Andrea feel he was, for the moment, re- 
strained by a stronger hand than his own, and that the restraint 
csmld not be easily broken through. 

“ Oh ! then my father has really a very large fortune, count? ** 
appears so, sir,” replied Monte-Cristo. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


417 


••Then, I am come to ask a favor of you.” “ Of me \ ” 

44 To take my father’s part.” 

44 Ah! my dear sir! What! after the numerous relations I 
have had the happiness to sustain toward you, you know me so 
little as to ask such a thing ! Ask me to lend you half a million, 
and, although such a loan is somewhat rare, on my honor you 
would annoy me less ! Know, then, what I thought I had already 
told you, that, in the moral participation particularly with this 
world’s affairs, the Count of Monte-Cristo has never ceased to en- 
tertain the scruples and even the superstitions of the East. I, 
who keep a seraglio at Cairo, at Smyrna, and at Constantinople, 

preside at a wedding? — never! ” 

“ But what must be done ? ” said Andrea, disappointed 
44 You said just now, you had a hundered friends.” 

“Agreed ; but you introduced me at M. Danglars’.” 

4 ‘ Not at all ! let us recall the exact facts. You met him at % 
dinner party at my house, and you introduced yourself at hi» 
house ; that is a totally different affair.” 

44 But, at least you will be there? ” 

44 Will all Paris be there ? ” 

44 Oh, certainly.' * ’ 

44 Well, like all Paris, I shall be there too,” said the count. 

44 And will you sign the contract?” 

44 1 see no objection to that ; my scruples do not go thus far.” 

44 Well, since you will grant me no more, I must be contentwith 
what you give me.” 

44 All is well, excepting your refusal, which quite grieves me.” 
44 Ycu must attribute it only to natural scruples under similar 
circumstances.” 

44 Well,” said Andrea, “let it be as you wish : this evening, 

then, at nine o’clock.” 44 Adieu till then.” Notwithstanding a 

slight resistance on the part of Monte-Cristo, whose lips turned 
pale, but who preserved his ceremonious smile, Andrea seized the 
count’s hand, pressed it, and disappeared. 

At half-past eight in the evening, Danglars* rooms were filled 
with a perfumed crowd, who sympathized but little, but partici- 
pated in that love of being present wherever there is anything fresh 
to be seen, which attracts inconstant butterflies, famished bees, and 
buzzing drones. 

Mdlle. Eugenie was dressed with elegant simplicity. Her eyes, 
however, betrayed that perfect confidence which contradicted the 
girlish simplicity of attire. The crowd moved to and fro in those 
rooms like an ebb and flow of turquoises, rubies, emeralds, opals, 
and diamonds. As usual, the oldest women were the most decor- 
ated, and the ugliest the most conspicuous. 

At the moment when the hand of the massive time-piece pointed 
to nine on its golden face, and the hammer struck nine times, the 
aame of Monte-Cristo resounded in its turn, and, as if by an eleo» 

27 / 


j 


418 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

trie shock, all the assembly turned toward the door. The court* 
was dressed in black, and with his habitual simplicity. His onl) 
jewel was a chain, so fine that the slender gold thread wai 
scarcely perceptible on his white waistcoat. A circle was formed 
immediately round the door. The count perceived at one glance 
Mdme. Danglars at one end of the drawing-room, M. Danglars at 
the other, and Eugenie in front of him. He first advanced toward 
the baroness, who was chatting with Mdme. de Villefort, who had 
come alone, Valentine being still an invalid ; and without turning 
aside, so clear was the road left for him, he passed from the 
baroness to Eugenie, whom he complimented in such rapid and 
measured terms, that the proud artist was quite struck. Near her 
was Louise d’Armilly, who thanked the count for the letters he 
had so kindly given her for Italy, which she intended immediately 
to make use of. On leaving these ladies he found himself with 
Danglars, who had advanced to meet him. 

Having accomplished these three social duties, Monte-Cristo 
stopped, looking around him with that expression peculiar to a 
certain class, which seems to say, “ I have done my duty, now let 
others do theirs.* ’ The lawyers arrived at this moment, and ar- 
ranged their papers on the velvet cloth embroidered with gold 
which covered the table prepared for the signature. One of the 
notaries sat down, the other remained standing. They were about 
to proceed to the reading of the contract, which half Paris assem- 
bled was to sign. 

The contract was read during a profund silence. But as soon as 
it was finished, the buzz was redoubled through all the drawing- 
rooms ; the brilliant sums, the rolling millions which were to be at 
the command of the affianced, and which crowned the display 
which had been made in a room entirely appropriated for that pur- 
pose of the wedding presents, and the young lady’s diamonds, had 
resounded with all their delusion on the jealous assembly. 

The baron was to sign first ; then the representative of M. 
Cavalcanti, senior ; then the baroness ; afterwards the future 
couple, as they are styled on the ceremonious stamped papers. 
The baron took the pen and signed, then the representative. The 
baroness approached, leaning on Mdme. de Villefort’s arm. 44 My 
dear,** said she, as she took the pen, 44 is it not vexatious ? An un- 
expected incident, in the affair of murder and theft at the count of 
Monte-Cristo*s, in which he nearly fell a victim, deprives us of the 
pleasure of seeing M. de Villefort.” 

44 Indeed,’* said M. Danglars, in the same tone in which he 
would have said, 44 Faith, I care very little about it ! ” 

4 4 Indeed,” said Monte-Cristo, approaching, 44 I am much afraid 
I am the involuntary cause of that absence. You remember/' con- 
tinued the count, during the most profound silence, 44 that the un- 
happy wretch who came to rob me, died at my house ; it was sup- 
posed he was stabbed by his accomplice, on attempting to leave it." 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


419 


“ Yes," said Danglars. 

“ In order to examine his wounds, he was undressed, and his 
clothes were thrown into a corner, where officers of justice picked 
them up, with the exception of the waist-coat, which they over- 
looked." Andrea turned pale, and drew towards the door, he saw 
a cloud rising in the horizon, which appeared to forebode a coming 
storm. 

“ Well ! this waistcoat was discovered to-day, covered with 
blood, and with a hole over the heart." The ladies screamed, and 
two or three prepared to faint. “ It was brought to me. No one 
could guess what the dirty rag could be ; I alone supposed it was 
the waistcoat of the victim. My valet, in examining this mourn- 
ful relic, felt a paper in the pocket and drew it out ; it was a letter 
addressed to you, baron." 

“To me ! " cried Danglars. 

“But," asked Mdme. Danglars, looking at her husband with 
uneasiness, “ how could that prevent M. de Villefort " 

“In this simple way, madame," replied Monte-Cristo ; “the 
waistcoat and the letter were both, what is termed, convictive 
evidence : I therefore sent it all to the Royal Prosecutor. You un- 
derstand, my dear baron, legal proceedings are the safest in 
criminal cases ; it was, perhaps, some plot against you." Andrea 
looked steadily at Monte-Cristo, and disappeared in the second 
drawing-room. 

“ Possibly." said Danglars ; “ this murdered man was an old 
galley-slave ? " 

“Yes," replied the count; “a felon named Caderousse." 
Danglars turned slightly pale, Andrea reached the anteroom be- 
yond the little drawing-room. 

“ But go on signing," said Monte-Cristo ; “ I perceive my story 
las caused a general emotion, and I beg to apologize to you, 
baroness, and to Mdlle. Danglars." 

The baroness, who had signed, returned the pen to the notary. 
“ Prince Cavalcanti ! " said the letter ; “ Prince Cavalcanti, where 
are you ? " “ Andrea ! Andrea ! " repeated several young peo- 

ple, who were already on sufficiently intimate terms with him to 

call him by his Christian name. “ Call the prince ! inform him 

it is his turn to sign ! " cried Danglars to one of the door-keepers. 

But at the same instant the crowd of guests rushed, terrified, in- 
to the principal saloon, as if some frightful monster had entered 
the apartments. There was, indeed, reason to retreat, for alarm, 
and to scream. An officer was placing two soldiers at the door of 
each drawing-room, and was advancing toward Danglars, pre- 
ceeded by a police justice girded with his scarf. Mdme. Danglars 
uttered a scream and fainted. Danglars, who thought himself 
threatened (certain consciences are never calm), — Danglars ap- 
peared before his guests with a terrified countenance. 

“ Which of you gentlemen," asked the magistrate, “answers to 


420 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


the name of Andrea Cavalcanti? ” A cry of stupor was heard 
from all parts of the room. They searched ; they questioned. 44 But 
who then is Andrea Cavalcanti?” asked Danglars, in amaze- 
ment. 

44 A galley-slave, escaped from confinement at Toulon.’* 

“And what crime has he committed ? ” 

14 He is accused,” said the commissary, with his inflexible voice, 
44 of having assassinated a man named Caderousse, his former 
companion in prison, at the moment he was making his escape 
from the house of the Count of Monte-Cristo.” Monte-Cristo casj 
a rapid glance around him. Andrea was gone. 


CHAPTER LX. 

JUDICIAL STERNNESS. 

We will leave the banker contemplating the enormous columns 
of his debt before the phantom of bankruptcy, and follow the 
baroness, who, after remaining for a moment as if crushed under 
the weight of the blow which had struck her, had gone to seek her 
usual adviser, Lucien Debray. The baroness had looked forward 
to this marriage as a means of ridding her of a guardianship 
which, over a girl of Eugenie’s character, could not fail to be 
rather a troublesome undertaking. She very much regretted that 
the marriage of Eugenie had not taken place, not only because the 
match was good, and likely to ensure the happiness of her child, 
but because it would also set her at liberty. She ran therefore to 
Debray’s, but he was absent and tired of waiting she returned 
home. The baroness ran lightly up-stairs, and with an aching 
heart entered her apartment, contiguous to Eugenie’s. She was 
fearful of exciting any remark, and listened at Eugenie’s door, 
then, hearing no sound, she tried to enter, but the bolts were 
drawn. Mdme. Danglars fancied that, fatigued with the terrible 
excitement of the evening, she had retired to her bed and slept. 
She called her lady’s maid and questioned her. 

“Mdlle. Eugenie,” she said, M retired to her apartment with 
Mdlle. d’ Armilly ; they took tea together, after which they desired 
me to leave, saying they required me no longer.** Since then the 
lady’s maid had been below, and, like every one else, she thought 
the young ladies were in their own room; Mdme. Danglars, there-* 
fore, went to bed, and began to muse over the past events. In 
proportion as her ideas became clearer, so did occurrences at the 
scene of the contract increase in magnitude ; it no longer appeared 
mere confusion ; it was a tumult ; it was no longer something dis* 
pressing, but disgraceful. 


I'HE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


421 


How could she extricate herself from this labyrinth ? To whom 
would she apply to help her out of this painful situation • Debray, 
to whom she had run, with the first instinct of a woman toward 
the man she loves, and who yet betrays her, — Debray could but 
give her advice ; she must apply to some one more powerful than 
he. The baroness then thought of M. de Villefort. It was M. de 
Villefort who had caused Cavalcanti to be arrested ; it was M. de 
Villefort who had remorselessly brought misfortune into her 
family, as though they had been strangers. The inflexibility of 
the prosecutor should stop there ; she would see him the next day, 
and if she could not make him fail in his duties as a magistrate, 
she would, at least, obtain all the indulgence he could allow. 

At nine o’clock next morning she rose, and without ringing for her 
maid, or giving the least sign of her existence, she dressed herself 
in the same simple style as on the previous night ; then running 
down-stairs, she called a hack and drove to Villefort’s House. For 
the last month this wretched house had presented the gloomy ap- 
pearance of a lazaretto infected with the plague. Mdme. Dang- 
lars involuntarily shuddered at the aspect ; she approached the 
door with trembling knees, and rang the bell. Three times did 
the bell ring with a dull, heavy sound, seeming to participate in 
general sadness, before the janitor appeared and peeped through 
the door, which he opened just wide enough to allow his words to 
be heard. He saw a lady, a fashionable, elegantly -dressed lady, 
and yet the door remained on the chain. 

“ Do you intend opening the door? ” said the baroness. 

“ First, madam, who are you ? ” 

“The Baroness Danglars : you have seen me twenty times.” 

“ Possibly, madam. And now, what do you want! ” 

“ Oh, how extraordinary ! I shall complain to M. de Villefort of 
the impertinence of his servants.” 

“ Madam, this is precaution, not impertinence ; no one enters 
here without an order from Dr. Avrigny, or without speaking to 
my master.” 

“ Well ! my business is with him.” 

“ Is it pressing business ? ” 

“ You can imagine so, since I have not even used my carriage. 
But enough of this ; here is my card ; take it to your master.” 

The concierge closed the door, leaving Mdme. Danglars on the 
street. She had not long to wait ; directly afterward the door 
was opened wide enough to admit her, and when she had passed 
through, it was again shut. Without losing sight of her for an 
instant, the man took a whistle from his pocket as soon as they 
entered the court, and sounded it. The footman appeared on the 
door-steps. “You will excuse this poor fellow, madam,” he said, 
as he preceded the baroness ; “ but his orders are precise, and M. 
de Villefort begged me to tell you he could not act otherwise than 
tie had done.” 


422 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR1ST0. 


The baroness began by complaining. But Villefort, raising hit 
fiead, bowed down by grief, looked up at her with so sad a smile 
that her complaints died upon her lips. “ Forgive my servants/* 
he said, “ for a terror I cannot blame them for ; from being sus- 
pected they have become suspicious.” 

Mdme. Danglars had often heard of the terror to which the 
magistrate alluded, but without the evidence of her own eyesight 
she could never have believed the sentiment had been carried so 
far. “ You too, then, are unhappy ? ” she said. “ Yes, madam,” 
replied the magistrate. 

‘‘Then you pity me ! ” “ Sincerely, madam.” “ And you 

understand what brings me here ? ” “ You wish to speak to me 

about the circumstance which has just happened?” “Yes, 

sir, a fearful misfortune.” “ When I hear misfortunes named, 

madam,” he said, “ I have within the last few months contracted 
the bad habit of thinking of my own, and then I cannot help 
drawing up an egotistical parallel in my mind. This is the reason 
that by the side of my misfortunes yours appear to me mere mis- 
chances ; this is why my dreadful position makes yours appear 
enviable. But this annoys you ; let us change the subject. You 
were saying, madam- ” 

“I came to ask you, my friend,” said the baroness, “ what will 
be done with his impostor?” 

“ Impostor! ” repeated Villefort ; certainly, madam, you appear 
to extenuate some cases, and exaggerate others. Impostor, indeed ! 
M. Andrea Cavalcanti, or rather M. Benedetto, is nothing more 
nor less than an assassin ! ” 

“ Sir, I do not deny the justice of your correction ; but the more 
severely you arm yourself against that unfortunate, the more 
deeply will you strike our family. Come, forget him for a 
moment, and, instead of pursuing him, let him fly.” 

“You are too late, madam ; the warrant is out.” 

“Well, should he be arrested— do you think they will arrest 
him?” 

“ I hope so.” 

“ If they should arrest him (I know that sometimes prisons 

afford means of escape), will you leave him in prison ?” The 

other shook his head. “ At least keep him there till my daughter 
be married.” 

“ Impossible, madam ; justice has its formalities.” 

“ What ! even for me ? ” said the baroness, half jesting, half in 
earnest. “For all, even for myself among the rest,” replied 
Villefort. 

“Ah!” exclaimed the baroness, without expressing the ideas 
which the exclamation betrayed. Villefort looked at her with that 
piercing glance which read the secrets of the heart. “Yes, I 
know what you mean,” he said ; “ I will answer you.” Villefort 
drew his arm-chair nearer to Mdme. Danglars ; then, resting both 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 


423 


hanas upon his desk, he said, in a voice more hollow than usual ; 

, There are crimes which remain unpunished because the criminals 
are unknown, and we might strike the innocent instead of the 
guilty ; but when the culprits are discovered* * (Villefort here ex- 
tended his hand toward a large crucifix placed opposite to his 
desk)— I swear to you, by all I hold most sacred, that, whoever they 
may be, they shall die ! Now, after the oath I have just taken, and 
which I will keep, madam, dare you ask for mercy for that wretch, 
escaped convict, then an assassin.” 

“ And who is this wretch ? ” 44 His parents are unknown.’* 

41 But who was the man who brought him from Lucca ? ” 
“Another rascal like himself, perhaps his accomplice.” 

The baroness clasped her hands. 44 Villefort ! ” she exclaimed, 
in her softest and most captivating manner, 41 this young man, 
though a murderer, is an orphan, abandoned by everybody.” 

44 So much the worse, or rather, so much the better ; it has been 
so ordained that he may have none to weep his fate.” 

44 His dishonor reflects upon us.” 

44 Is not death in my house ? ” 

44 Oh, sir,” exclaimed the baroness, “ you are without pity for 
others ! Well, then, I tell you they will have no mercy on you ! ” 
44 Be it so ! ” said Villefort, raising his arms to heaven. 

44 But, sir, he has fled ; let him escape — inaction is a pardon- 
able offence.” 

44 1 tell you it is too late ; early this morning the telegraph was 

employed, and at this very minute ” 

44 Sir,” said the valet-de-chambre, entering the room, 44 a dragoon 
has brought this despatch from the Interior.” Villefort seized 
the letter, and hastily unsealed it. Madame Danglars trembled 
with fear ; Villefort started with joy. 44 Arrested ! ” he exclaimed ; 
44 he was taken at Compiegne, and all is over.” Mdme. Danglars 
rose from her seat, pale and cold. 44 Adieu, sir ! ” she said. 

44 Adieu, madam! ” replied the lawyer, as in an almost joyful 
manner he conducted her to the door. Then, turning to his desk, 
he said, striking the letter with his right hand, 44 Come, I had a 
forgery, three robberies, and two incendiaries ; I only wanted a 
murder, and here it is. It will be a splendid session ! ” 

In receiving the news of Andrea’s capture, the whole was notin 
Villefort’ s hands. 

The Italian adventurer had succeeded in reaching Compiegne, 
but he was badly hampered for lack of a passport, indispensable in 
those times. He stayed at the first hotel, pretending that he had 
' put up there before. He had refreshed his toilet, and moderated 
its festal appearance and seemed a gentleman on his excursions 
after a pretty girl outside of the capital. 

He purposed disguising himself meanly on the morrow and 
traveling by night by side-paths to the frontier. 

The sun awoke him at seven. He went to the window and was 


424 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


horrified to see that the hotel was surrounded by the rural con* 
stabullary. He jumped to the conclusion that they were after him 
The worlar-arm telegraph had indeed been employed to notify 
the authorities in all directions of the flight of the murderer of 
Caderousse. 

Benedetto was a lad jof resources and he did not delay in fast- 
ening his door and climbing up the chimney. But tne roof, 
he feared, would soon be searched, and he considered it wise to 
slip down another flue and reached thereby some room where he 
might exit unnoticed. 

Two thirds down, however, his foot slipped and down he slid 
upon a hearth. This fall was almost noiseless, and would not have 
mattered perhaps if the room had been unoccupied. 

As bad luck would happen, the bed was tenanted by two young 
women, who sprang up in bed as the soot-befouled young mai* 
rolled into the apartment. 

Mutual recognition was in the glances exchanged between the 
three equally surprised persons. 

The women had recognized Andrea the murderer and the Mdlle. 
Armilly and Mdlle. Danglars, in spite of the latter having cut off 
her tresses. 

Eugenie had fled in masculine attire with her inseparable friend. 
With a large sum in cash and jewels, they were making their way 
to the frontier, for refuge in some land where they could go upon 
the musical stage. 

The first emotion over t they begged the assassin to return as he 
had come ; but already the excitement had spread through the 
house and a maid, previously piqued by the aspect of the girl in 
the gentleman’s apparel, had applied her eye to the keyhole and 
seen the begrimed young man in the ladies’ room. 

It was no excuse that he would have been the husband of the 
banker’s daughter : he had to yield and the delighted police cap- 
tain hurried to send the telegram to the Royal Prosecutor, as 
stated. 

Danglar’s daughter and her companion proceeded in the oppo- 
site direction, to Brussels. 


CHAPTER LXI. 

THE SPIRIT OF DEATH. 

Valentine was not yet recovered. Bowed down with fatigue, 
she was indeed confined to her bed, and it was in her own room, 
and from the lips of Mdme. de Villefort, that she heard of all the 
strange events we have related. But Valentine was so weak that 
this recital scarcely produced the same effect it would have done 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


425 


tiad she been in her usual health. During the daytime Valentine’s 
perceptions remained tolerably clear, owing to the constant presence 
of M. Noirtier, who ordered himself to be carried to his grand- 
daughter’s room, and watched her with his paternal tenderness ; 
Villefort also, on his return from the courts, frequently passed an 
hour or two with his father and child. At six o’clock Villefort re- 
tired to his study, at eight M. d’Avrigny arrived himself, bringing 
the night draught prepared for the girl, and then M. Noirtier was 
carried away. A nurse of the doctor’s choice succeeded them, 
and never left till about ten or eleven o’clock, when Valentine was 
asleep. As she went down-stairs she gave the keys of Valentine’s 
room to M. Villefort, so that no one could reach the sick-room ex- 
cepting through Mdme. de Villefort’ s. Every morning Morrel 
called on Noirtier to receive news of Valentine, and, extraordinary 
as it seemed, each day found him less uneasy. 

Eleven o’clock had struck. Ten minutes had elapsed since the 
nurse had left. The night-lamp threw out countless rays, each 
resolving itself into some strange form to her disordered imagina- 
tion, when suddenly, by its flickering light, Valentine thought she 
saw the door of her library, in the recess by the chimney, open 
slowly, though -she in vain listened for the sound of the hinges on 
which it turned. At any other time Valentine would have seized 
the bell-pull, and summoned assistance, but nothing astonished 
her in her present situation. Behind the door a human figure 
appeared ; but she was too familiar with such apparitions to be 
alarmed, and therefore only stared, hoping to recognize Morrel. 
The figure advanced toward the bed, and appeared to listen with 
profound attention. At this moment a ray of light glanced across 
the face of the midnight visitor. 

“It is not he ! ” she murmured, and waited, in the assurance of 
its being but a dream, for the man to disappear or assume some 
other form. Still, she felt her pulse, and, finding it throb vio- 
lently, she remembered that the best method of dispelling such 
illusions was to drink, for a draught of the beverage prepared by 
the doctor to allay her fever seemed to cause a reaction of the 
brain, and for a short time she suffered less. Valentine therefore 
reached her hand toward the glass, but as soon as her trembling 
arm left the bed the ghost advanced more quickly toward her, and 
approached the young girl so closely that she fancied she heard 
his breath, and felt the pressure of his hand. This time the illu- 
sion, or rather the reality, surpassed anything Valentine had be- 
fore experienced ; she began to believe herself really alive and. 
awake, and the belief that her reason was this time not deceived 
made her shudder. The pressure she felt was evidently to arrest 
her arm, and she slowly withdrew it. Then the figure, from whom 
she could not detach her eyes, and who appeared more protecting 
than menacing, took the glass, and, walking toward the night- 
light, held it up, as if to test its transparency. This did not seem 


426 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


sufficient ; the phantom — for he trod so softly that no sound was 
heard — then poured out about a spoonful into the glass, and drank 
it. Valentine witnessed this scene with a sentiment of stupefac- 
tion. Every minute she had expected that it would vanish and 
give place to another vision ; but the man, instead of dissolving 
like a shadow, again approached her, and said in an agitated 
voice, “Now you may drink.” 

Valentine shuddered. It was the first time one of these visions 
had ever addressed her in a living voice, and she was about to 
utter an exclamation. The man placed his finger on her lips. 
“ The Count of Monte-Cristo ! ” she murmured. 

It was easy to see that no doubt now remained in the girl’s mind 
as to the reality of the scene ; her eyes started with terror, her 
hands trembled, and she rapidly drew the bed-clothes closer to 
her. Still, the presence of Monte-Cristo at such an hour, his mys- 
terious, fanciful, and extraordinary entrance into her room, through 
the wall, might well seem impossibilities to her shattered reason. 
“ Do not call any one — do not be alarmed,” said the count ; “ do 
not let a shade of suspicion or uneasiness remain in your breast ; 
the man standing before you, Valentine (for this time it is no 
phantom), is nothing more than the tenderest father and the most 
respectful friend you could dream of.” 

Valentine could not reply. 

“ Listen to me,” he said, “ or, rather, look upon me ; look at 
my face, paler even than usual, and my eyes, red with weariness 
— for four days I have not closed them, for I have been constantly 
watching you, to protect and preserve you for Maximilian.” 
The blood mounted rapidly to the cheeks of Valentine, for the 
name just pronounced by the count dispelled all the fear with 
which his presence had inspired her. “Maximilian!” she ex- 
claimed, and so sweet did the sound appear to her, that she 
repeated it — “ Maximilian ! has he then told all to you ? ” 

“ Everything. He told me your life was his, and I have 
promised him you shall live. 

*' Are you a doctor?” 

“ Yes, the best you could have at the present time, believe me.” 

“ But you say you have watched,” said Valentine, with an in- 
dignant expression of pride and modest fear : “ Sir, I think you 
have been guilty of an unparalleled intrusion, and that which you 
Call protection is more resembling an insult.” 

“Valentine,” he answered, “ during my long watch over you, 
all I have observed has been what people visited you, what nour- 
ishment was prepared, and what beverage was served ; then, 
when the latter appeared dangerous to me, I entered, as I have 
now done, and substituted &gt; in the place of the poison, a healthy 
draught ; which, instead of producing the death intended, caused 
life to circulate in your veins.” 

" Poison! Death! ” exclaimed Valentine, half believing her* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO , 


427 


self under the influence of some feverish hallucination ; "what 

are you saying, sir?” "Hush! my child,” said Monte- 

Cristo, again laying his finger upon her lips ; “ I did say poison 
and death. But drink some of this;” and the connt took a 
bottle from his pocket, containing a red liquid, of which he poured 
a few drops into the glass. " Drink this, and then take nothing 
more to-night.” Valentine stretched out her hand ; but scarcely 
had she touched the glass than she drew it back in fear. Monte- 
Cristo took the glass, and drank half its contents, and then pre« 
sented it to Valentine, who smiled, and swallowed the rest. " Oh i 
yes,” she exclaimed, " I recognize the flavor of my nocturnal bev« 
erage which refreshed me so much, and seemed to ease my ach« 
ing brain. Thank you, sir, thank you ! ” 

" This is how you have lived during the last four nights, Valen- 
tine,” said the count. " But, oh ! how I passed that time ! Oh ! 
the wretched hours I have endured ! the torture to which I have 
submitted when I saw the deadly poison poured into your glass, 
and how I trembled lest you would drink it before I could find 
time to throw it away ! ” 

"Sir,” said Valentine, at the height of her terror, "you say 
you endured tortures when you saw the deadly poison poured into 
my glass ; but if you saw this you must also have seen the per- 
son who poured it?” 

Yes.” 

" What you tell me is horrible, sir. What ? attempt to murder 
:me in my father’s house — in my room — on my bed of sickness ? 
Oh ! leave me, sir ; you are tempting me ; you make me doubt 
the goodness of Providence ; it is impossible, it cannot be ! ” 

" Are you the first that this hand has stricken ? Have you not 
seen M. de Saint-Meran, Mdme. de Saint-Meran, Barrois, all 
fall? Would not M. Noirtier also have fallen a victim, had not 
the treatment he has been pursuing for the last three years neu- 
tralized the effects of the poision? ” 

" Oh, Heaven !” said Valentine ; " is this the reason why grand- 
papa has made me share all his beverages during the last month ? ” 

" Your grandfather knows, then, that a poisoner lives here ; 
perhaps, he even suspects the person. He has been fortifying 
you, his beloved child, against the fatal effects of the poison, 
which would have failed from the constant habit of imbibing it. 
But even this would have availed little against a more deadly 
medium of death employed four days ago, which is generally but 
too fatal.” 

" But who, then, is this assassin, this murderer who could desire 
my death ?” 

" You shall know it now, then,” said Monte-Cristo, listening. 

" How do you mean ? ” said Valentine, looking terrified around. 

" Because you are not feverish or delirious to-night, but thor- 
oughly awake ; midnight is striking, which is the hour murderers 


4.28 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

choose. Summon up all your courage ; still the beatings of youf 
heart ; do not let a sound escape you, and feign to be asleep ; then 
you will see/’ 

And with this fearful injunction the count disappeared through 
the door, which noiselessly closed after him. 

Clocks struck the hour of midnight from different situations ; 
and, excepting the rumbling of a few carriages, all was silent. 
Then Valentine’s attention was engrossed by the clock in her 
room, which marked the seconds. She began counting them, 
remarking that they were much slower than the beatings of her 
heart ; and still she doubted : the inoffensive Valentine could not 
imagine any One desiring her death. Why should they ? To 
what end? What had she done to excite the malice of an enemy? 
There was no fear of her falling asleep. One terrible idea pressed 
upon her mind, that some one existed in the world who had at- 
tempted to assassinate her, and who was about to endeavor to do 
so again. Supposing this person, wearied at the inefficacy of the 
poison, should, as Monte-Cristo said, have recourse to steel! — 
What if the count should have no time to run to her rescue .' 
—What if her last moments were approaching, and she would 
never again see Morrel ! Twenty minutes, twenty tedious min- 
utes, passed thus, then ten more, and at last the clock struck the 
half-hour. Just then the sound of finger-nails slightly scratching 
against the door of the library informed Valentine that the couni 
was still watching, and recommended her to do the same ; at thn 
same time, on the opposite side, that is, toward Edward’s room, 
Valentine fancied she heard the creaking of the floor; she listened 
attentively, holding her breath till she was nearly suffocated ; the 
lock turned, and the door slowly opened. Valentine had raised 
herself upon her elbow, and had scarcely time to throw herself 
down on the bed and shade her eyes with her arm ; then, trem- 
bling, agitated, and her heart beating with indescribable terror, 
she waited the event. 

Some one approached the bed and undrew the curtains. Val- 
entine summoned every effort, and breathed with that regular 
respiration which announces tranquil sleep. ** Valentine ! ” said 
a low voice. Still silent : Valentine had promised not to wake. 
Then everything remained still, excepting that Valentine heard the 
almost noiseless sound of some liquid being poured into the glass 
she had just emptied. Then she ventured to open her eyelids, 
and glance over her extended arm. She saw a female in a white 
dressing-gown pouring a liquor from a phial into her glass. During 
this short time Valentine must have held her breath, or moved in 
some slight degree, for the woman, disturbed, stopped and 
leaned over the bed, in order the better to ascertain whether Val- 
entine slept : it was Mdme. de Villefort. 

On recognizing her step-mother, Valentine could not repress a 
shudder, which caused a vibration in the bed. Mdme. de Ville* 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


429 


fort instantly stepped back close to the wall, and there, shaded by 
the bed-curtains, she silently and attentively watched the slightest 
movement of Valentine. The latter recollected the terrible cau- 
tion of Monte-Cristo ; she fancied that the hand not holding the 
phial clasped a long sharp knife. Then collecting all her remain- 
ing strength, she forced herself to close her eyes ; but this simple 
operation upon the most delicate organs of our frame, generally 
so easy to accomplish, became almost impossible at this moment, 
so much did curiosity struggle to retain the eyelid open and learn 
the truth. Mdme. de Villefort, however, reassured by the silence, 
alone disturbed by the regular breathing of Valentine, again ex- 
tended her hand, and, half hidden by the curtains, succeeded in 
emptying the contents of the phial into the glass. Then she re- 
tired so gently that Valentine did not know she had left the room. 
She only witnessed the withdrawal of the arm — that fair round 
arm, of a woman but twenty-five years old, and yet spread death 
around her. 

It is impossible to describe the sensations experienced by Valen- 
tine during the minute and a half Mdme. de Villefort remained in 
the room. The tapping against the library-door roused the young 
girl from the state of stupor in which she was plunged, and which 
almost amounted to insensibility. She raised her head with an 
effort. The noiseless door again turned on its hinges, and the 
Count of Monte-Cristo reappeared. 

44 Did you recognize ? ” Valentine groaned. 41 Oh, yes ! ” she 
said, 44 I saw, but I cannot believe ! ” 

44 Would you rather die, then, and cause Maximilian’s death ?” 
44 Oh ! ” repeated the girl, almost bewildered, 44 can I not leave 
the house ? — can I not escape ? ” 

44 Valentine, the hand which now threatens you will pursue you 
everywhere ; your servants will be bribed, and death will be 
offered to you disguised in every shape.” 

44 But did you not say that my kind grandfather’s precaution 
had neutralized the poison? ” 

44 Yes, but not against a strong dose ; the poison will be changed, 
and the quantity increased.” He took the glass and raised it to 
his lips. 44 It is already done,” he said; 44 brucine is no longer 
employed, but a simple narcotic ! I can recognize the flavor of 
the alcohol in which it has been dissolved. If you had taken that 
which Mdme. de Villefort has poured into your glass, Valentine ! 
you would have been dead ! ” 

“ But,” exclaimed the girl, 44 why am I thus pursued ? ” 

44 But you are rich, Valentine ; you have 200,000 livres a year, 
and you prevent her son from enjoying these 200,000 livres.” 

44 Edward ? Poor child ! are all these crimes committed on his 
account ? ” 

44 Valentine, you are an angel 1 ” 

44 But why is my grandfather allowed to live ? ” 


43 ° 


THE COUNT OE MONTE CRISTO. 


ff ‘ It was considered, that you dead, the fortune would naturally 
revert to your brother, unless he were disinherited ; and besides,* 
the crime appearing useless, it would be folly to commit it.” 

“ Command me, sir — what am I to do?” 

“You must blindly take what I give you.” 

“ Alas ! were it only for my own sake, I should prefer to die ! ” 
“You must not confide in any one — not even in your father.” 
“My father is not engaged in this fearful plot, is he, sir?" 
asked Valentine, clasping her hands. 

“ No ; and yet your father, a man accustomed to judicial ac- 
cusations, ought to have known that all these deaths have not 
happened naturally ; it is he who should have watched over you 
• — occupied my place — emptied that glass — and risen against the 
assassin. Spectre against spectre ! ” he murmured in a low voice, 
as he concluded his sentence. 

“ Sir,” said Valentine, “ I will do all I can to live, for there are 
two beings whose existence depends upon mine — my grandfather 

and Maximilian.” “I will watch over them as I have over 

you. Whatever may happen, Valentine, do not be alarmed; 
though you suffer ; though you loose sight, hearing and conscious- 
ness, fear nothing ; though you should awake and be ignorant 
where you are, still do not fear ; even though you should find 
yourself in a sepulchral vault or coffin.” 

“ Alas ! alas ! what a fearful extremity ? ” 

“ Valentine, would you rather denounce your step-mother ? " 

“ I would rather die a hundred times — oh, yes, die ! ” 

“ No, you will not die ; but will you promise me, whatever 
happens, that you will not complain, but hope? ” 

“ I will think of Maximilian ! ” 

“You are my own darling child, Valentine ! I alone can save 
you, and I will ! ” 

Then he drew from his waistcoat-pocket the little emerald box, 
raised the golden lid, and took from it a lozenge, which he placed 
in her hand. She took it, and looked attentively on the count ; 
Ihere was an expression on the face of her intrepid protector 
which commanded her veneration. She evidently interrogated 
him by her look, “ Yes,” said he. Valentine carried the pastille 
to her mouth, and swallowed it. “ And now, my dear child, 
adieu for the present. I will try and gain a little sleep, for you 
are saved.” 

“Go,” said Valentine, “ whatever happens, I promise you not 
to fear.” 

Monte-Cristo for some time kept his eyes fixed on the girl, who 
gradually fell asleep, yielding to the effects of the narcotic the 
count had given her. Then he took the glass, emptied three 
parts of the contents in the fireplace, that it might be supposed 
Valentine had taken it, and replaced it on the table ; then he dis« 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR 1 ST 0 . 431 

Appeared, after throwing a farewell glance on Valentine, who 
slept with the confidence and innocence of an angel. 

The clock striking eight awoke, the nurse, who came in a little be- 
fore dawn. Astonished at the prolonged sleep of the patient, and 
frightened to see an arm hanging out of bed, she advanced to- 
ward Valentine, and for the first time noticed the white lips. She 
tried to replace the arm, but it moved with a frightful stiffness 
which could not deceive a sick-nurse. She screamed aloud ; then 
running to the door exclaimed, — “ Help ! help ! ” 

But before the doctor and the father could reach the room, the 
servants who were on the same floor had entered, and seeing 
Valentine pale and motionless on her bed, they lifted up their 
hands toward heaven and stood transfixed, as though struck by 
lightning. 

“ Call Mdme. de Villefort !— wake Mdme. de Villefort ! ” cried 
the lawyer from the door of his chamber, which it seemed he 
scarcely dared to leave. But instead of obeying him, the serv- 
ant stood watching M. d’Avrigny, who ran to Valentine, and 
raised her in his arms. “What! this one, too! ” he exclaimed. 
“'Oh! when will this cease ? ” 

Villefort rushed into the room. “ What are you saying, doc- 
tor? ” he exclaimed, rushed into the room. “ What are you say- 
ing, doctor?” he exclaimed, raising his hands to heaven. 

“ I say that Valentine is dead ! ” replied D’Avrigny, in a voice 
terrible in its solemn calmness. 

M. de Villefort staggered and buried his head in the bed. On 
the exclamation of the doctor and the cry of the father, the serv- 
ants all fled with muttered imprecations ; they were heard running 
down the stairs and through the long passages, then there was a 
rush in the court, afterwards all was still ; they had, one and all, 
deserted from the accursed house. Just then, Mdme. de Ville- 
fort, in the act of slipping on her dressing-gown, threw aside the 
drapery, and fer a moment remained still, as though interrogating 
the occupants of the room, while she endeavored to call up some 
rebellious tears. On a sudden she stepped, or rather bounded, 
with outstretched arms, toward the table. She saw D’Avrigny 
curiously examining the glass, which she felt certain of having 
emptied during the night. It was now a third full, just as it was 
when she threw the contents into the ashes. The spectre of 
Valentine rising before the prisoner would have alarmed her less. 
It was, indeed, the same color, as the draft she had poured into 
the glass, and which Valentine had drunk ; it was indeed the 
poison, which could not deceive M. d’Avrigny, now examining it 
so closely : it was doubtless a miracle from heaven, that, not- 
withstanding her precautions, there should be trace or proof re- 
maining to denounce the crime. While Mdme. de Villefort re- 
mained rooted to the spot like a statue of terror, and Villefort, 
with his head hidden in the bedclothes, saw nothing around hi*£% 


43 2 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTG . 


D’Avrigny approached the window, that he might the better ex- 
amine the contents of the glass, and dipping the tip of his fingef 
in, tasted it. 44 Ah ! ” he exclaimed, 44 it is no longer brucine that 
is used ; let me see what it iG ! ” 

Then he ran to one of the cupboards in Valentine’s room, which 
had been transformed into a medicine closet, and taking from its 
silver case a small bottle of nitric acid, dropped a little of it into 
the liquor, which immediately changed to a blood-red color. 
44 Ah ! ” exclaimed D’Avrigny, in a voice in which the horror of 
a judge unveiling the truth was mixed with the delight of a 
student discovering a problem. Mdme. de Villefort was over- 
powered; her eyes first flashed and then swam; she staggered, 
toward the door, and disappeared. Directly afterward the distant 
sound of a heavy body falling on the ground was heard, but no 
one paid any attention to it ; the nurse was engaged in watching 
the chemical analysis, and Villefort was still absorbed in grief. 
M. d’Avrigny alone had followed Mdme. de Villefort with his 
eyes, and watched her precipitate retreat. He lifted up the 
drapery over the entrance to Edward’s room, and his eye reach- 
ing as far as Mdme. de Villefort’ s apartment, he beheld her 
extended lifeless on the floor. 

44 Go to the assistance of Mdme. de Villefort,” he said to the 
nurse. 44 Mdme. de Villefort is ill.” 

44 But Mdlie. de Villefort ” stammered the nurse. 

44 No longer requires help,” said D’Avrigny, 44 since sh^ Is 

dead.” 4 4 Dead! — dead!” groaned forth Villefort, in a 

paroxysm of grief, which was the more terrible from the nov^ty 
of the sensation in the iron heart of that man. 

44 Dead ! ” repeated a third voice. 44 Who said Valentine 
dead?” 

The two men turned round, and saw Morrel standing at tie 
door, pale and terror-stricken. 

Noirtierhad encouraged him to go. 

Villefort rose, half ashamed of being surprised in suet, a 
; paroxysm of grief. The terrible office he had held for twenty- 
five years had succeeded in making him more or less than man. 
His glance, at first wandering, fixed itself upon Morrel. “Who 
are you, sir,” he asked, 44 that forget that this is not the manner 
to enter a house stricken with death? Go, sir, go!” But 
Morrel remained motionless ; he could not detach his eyes from 
that disordered bed, and the pale corpse lying on it. “Go!— 
do you hear?” said Villefort, while D’Avrigny advanced to 
lead Morrel out. Maximilian stared for a moment at the corpse, 
gazed all round the room, then upon the two men ; he opened 
his mouth to speak, but finding it impossible to give utterance 
to the innumerable ideas that occupied his brain, he went out, 
thrusting his hands through his hair in such a manner that Ville- 
fort and D’Avrigny, for a moment diverted from the engrossing 


THE CCHN2 CE MONTE CRISTO . 


433 

j&amp;pk, exchanged glances, which seemed to convey,—" He is 
mad!” , 

But, in less than five minutes, the staircase groaned beneath 
an extraordinary weight. Morrel was seen carrying, with super- 
human strength, the arm-chair containing Noirtier up-stairs. 
When he reached the landing, he placed the arm-chair on the 
floor and rapidly rolled it into Valentine’s room. This could 
only have been accomplished by means of unnatural strength 
supplied by powerful excitement. But the most fearful spectacle 
was Noirtier being pushed toward the bed, his face expressing 
all his meaning, and his eyes supplying the want of every other 
faculty. That pale face and flaming glance appeared to Ville- 
fort like a frightful apparition. Each time he had been brought 
into contact with his father, something terrible had happened. 
" See what they have done ! ” cried Morrel, with one hand lean* 
ing on the back of the chair, and the other extended toward Valen- 
tine. "See, father, see ! ” 

Villefort drew back and looked with astonishment on the young 
man, who, almost a stranger to him, call Noirtier " father.” At 
this moment the whole soul of the old man seemed centered in his 
eyes, which became bloodshot ; the veins of the throat swelled ; 
his cheeks and temples became purple, as though he was struck 
with epilepsy ; nothing was wanting to complete this but the ut- 
terance of a cry. And the cry issued from his pores, if we may 
thus speak — a cry, frightful in its silence. D’Avrigny rushed to- 
ward the old man and made him inhale a powerful restorative. 
"Sir! ” cried Morrel, seizing the moist hand of the paralytic, 
they ask me who I am, and what right I have to be here ? Oh, 
you know it, tell them, tell them! ” And the young man’s voice 
was choked by sobs. As for the old man, his chest heaved with 
his panting respiration* One could have thought he was under- 
going the agonies preceding death. At length, happier than the 
young man, who sobbed without weeping, tears glistened in the 
eyes ot Noirtier. " Tell them,” said Morrel, in a hoarse voice, 
M tell them I am her betrothed. Tell them she was my beloved, 
my noble girl, my only blessing in the world. Tell them — oh ! 
tell them, that corpse belongs to me.” The young man who 

E resented the dreadful spectacle of a strong frame crushed, fell 
eavily on his knees before the bed, which his fingers grasped 
with convulsive energy. D’Avrigny, unable to bear the sight of 
this touching emotion, turned away ; and Villefort, without seek- 
ing any further explanation, and attracted toward him by the 
irresistible magnetism which draws us toward those who have 
loved the people for whom we mourn, extended his hand toward 
the young man. But Morrel saw nothing ; he had grasped the 
hand of Valentine, and, unable to weep, vented his agony in 
gnawing the sheets. For some time nothing was heard in that 
chamber but sobs, exclamations, and prayers. At length Vilte* 


434 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 


Jort, the most composed of all, spoke : 44 Sir/* said he to Mavlmiban, 

" you say you loved Valentine, and were betrothed to her. I knew 
nothing of this engagement, or love, yet I, her father, forgive you, 
for I see your grief is real and deep ; and, besides, my own sor- 
row is too great for anger to find a place in my heart. But you 
see the angel whom you hoped for has left this earth has nothing 
more to do with the adoration of men. Take a last farewell, sir. 
of her sad remains ; take the hand yon expected to possess once 
more within your own, and then separate yourself from her for 
ever. Valentine now alone requires the priest who will bless 
her.” 

fl4 You are mistaken, sir," exclaimed Morrel, raising himself on 
one knee, his heart pierced by a more acute pang tkan any he 
had yet felt— 44 you are mistaken ; Valentine, dying as she has, 
not only requires a priest, but an avenger. You , M. de Villefort, 

send for the priest; / will be the avenger.”- 44 What do you 

mean, sir? ” asked Villefort, trembling at the new idea inspired by 
the delirium of Morrel. 

44 I tell you, sir, that two persons exist in you ; the father has 
mourned sufficiently, now let the Attorney General fulfil h'ts 

office.” 

The eyes of Noirtier glistened, and D’ Avrigny approached. 

41 Gentlemen,” said Morrel, 44 1 denounce the crime ; it is your 
place to seek the assassin.” The young man’s implacable eyes 
interrogated Villefort, who, on his side, glanced from Noirtier to 
B’ Avrigny. But instead of finding sympathy in the eyes of the 
doctor and his father, he only saw an expression as inflexible as 
of Maximilian’s. “Yes!” indicated the old man. 4 4 As- 

suredly ! ” said D* Avrigny. 

44 Sir,” said Villefort, striving to struggle against this triple 
force and his own emotion, — 44 sir, you are deceived, no one com- 
mits crimes here. I am stricken by fate. It is horrible, indeed, 
but no one assassinates.** 

The eyes of Noirtier lighted up with rage, and D’ Avrigny pre- 
pared to speak. Morrel, however, extended his arm, and com- 
manded silence. 44 And I say that murders are committed here,” 
said Morrel, whose voice, though lower in tone, lost none of its 
terrible distinctness: 44 1 tell you that is the fourth victim within 
the last four months. I tell you, Valentine’s life was attempted by 
poison four days ago, though she escaped, owing to the precau- 
tions of M. Noirtier. I tell you that the dose has been doubled, the 
poison changed, and that this time it has succeeded. I tell you 
that you know these things as well as I do, since this gentleman 
nas forewarned you, both as a doctor and a friend.” 

44 Oh, you rave, sir ! ” exclaimed Villefort, in vain endeavoring 
to escape the net in which he was taken. 

44 1 rave?” said Morrel; 44 well, then, I appeal to Dr, 
d’Avrigny himself. Ask him, sir, if he recollects some wouis m 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR1STO. 


435 


uttered in the garden of this hotel on the night of Mdme. de Saint* 
Meran’s death. You thought yourselves alone, and talked about 
that tragical death, and the fatality you mentioned then is the same 
as caused the murder of Valentine.” Villefort and D’Avrigny 
exchanged looks. “Yes, yes,” continued Morrel ; “recall the 
scene, for the words you thought were only given to silence and 
solitude fell into my ears. Certainly, after witnessing the culpable 
indolence manifested by M. de Villefort towards his own relatives, 

I ought to have denounced him to the authorities ; then I should 
not have been an accomplice to thy death, as I now am, sweet, be* 
loved Valentine : but the accomplice shall become the avenger. 
This fourth murder is apparent to all, and if your father abandons 
you,' Valentine, it is I, and I swear it, that will pursue the assassin.” 
And this time, as though nature had at least taken compassion on 
the vigorous frame, nearly bursting with its own strength, the 
words of Morrel were stifled in his throat ; his breast heaved ; the 
tears, so long rebellious, gushed from his eyes ; and he threw him- 
self, weeping, on his knees, by the side of the bed. 

Then D’Avrigny spoke. “And I, too,” he exclaimed, in a low 
voice, “1 unite with M. Morrel in demanding justice for crime; 
my blood boils at the idea of having encouraged a murderer by 
my cowardly concession.” “Oh! merciful Heavens!” mur- 

mured Villefort. Morrel raised his head, and reading the eyes of 
the old man, which gleamed with unnatural lustre, — “Stay,” he 

said, “ M. Noirtier wishes to speak.*’- “Yes,” indicated Noir- 

tier, with an expression the more terrible, from all his faculties 
being centered in his glance. 

“ Do you know the assassin? " asked Morrel. 

“Yes,” replied Noirtier. “And will you direct us?" ex- 

claimed the young man. “ Listen, M. d’Avrigny ! listen ! " 
Noirtier looked upon Morrel with one of those melancholy smiles 
which had so often made Valentine happy, and thus fixed his at- 
tention. Then, having riveted the eyes of his interlocutor on his 
own, he glanced toward the door. 

“ Do you wish me to leave ?" said Morrel sadly. 

“Yes,” replied Noirtier. 

“Must I leave alone? ” “ No." 

“ Who am I to take with me? — the prosecutor?**— “ No.*' 

“ The doctor? ” “ Yes." 

“Oh! " said Villefort, inexpressibly delighted to think the in- 
quiries were to be made privately,— “ 1 can understand my 
father," D’Avrigny took the young man’s arm, and led him out 
of the room. A more than deathlike silence then reigned in the 
house. At the end of a quarter of an hour a faltering footstep 
was heard, and Villefort appeared at the door of the apartment 
where D’Avrigny and Morrel had been standing, one absorbed in 
meditation, the other with grief. “ You can come," he said, and 
led them back to Noirtier, Morrel looked attentively on Villefort. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


His face was livid, large drops rolled down his face ; and in hi* 
fingers he held the fragments of a pen which he had torn to atoms. 

44 Gentlemen/’ he said, in a hoarse voice, 44 give me your word of 
honor that this horrible secret shall forever remain buried amongst 
ourselves ! ” The two men drew back. 

44 Justice will be done,” said Villefort 44 My father has revealed 
the culprit’s name ; my father thirsts for revenge as much as you 
do, yet even he conjures you as I do to keep this secret. Rest as- 
sured, gentlemen, that within three days, in a less time than justice 
would demand, the revenge I shall have taken for the murder of 
my child will be such as to make the boldest heart tremble ; ’ ’ and 
as he spoke these words he ground his teeth, and grasped the old 
man’s senseless hand. 

Morrel rushed to the bed, and, after having pressed the cold 
lips of Valentine with his own, hurriedly left, uttering a long, deep 
groan of despair and anguish. We have before stated that all the 
servants had fled. M. de Villefort was, therefore, obliged to re- 
quest M. d’Avrigny to superintend all those arrangements conse- 
quent upon a death in a large city, more especially under such 
suspicious circumstances. It was something terrible to witness the 
silent agony, the mute despair of Noirtier, whose tears silently 
rolled down his cheeks. Villefort retired to his study, and 
D’Avrigny left to summon the coroner. M. Noirtier could not be 
persuaded to quit his grandchild. At the end of a quarter of an 
hour M. d’Avrigny returned with his associate ; they found the 
outer gate closed ,and not a servant remaining in the house ; Ville- 
fort himself was obliged to open it. But he stopped on the land- 
ing ; he had not the courage to revisit the room of death. The 
two doctors, therefore, entered the room alone. Noirtier was near 
the bed, pale, motionless, and silent as the corpse. The coroner 
approached with the indifference of a man accustomed to spend 
half his time amongst the dead ; he then lifted the sheet which 
was placed over the face, and just unclosed the lips. 

"Alas!” said D’Avrigny, 4 she is indeed dead, poor child! 

You can leave.” 44 Yes,” answered the doctor laconically, 

dropping the sheet he had raised. 

The doctor then laid his report on the corner of the table, and, 
having executed his office, was conducted out by D’Avrigny. 
Villefort met them at the door of his study ; having in a few words 
thanked the coroner, he returned to D’Avrigny, and said, — 

44 And now the priest.” 

44 Is there any particular priest you wish to pray with Valen* 
tine?” asked D’Avrigny. 

44 No,” said Villefort ; 41 fetch the nearest.” 

44 The nearest,” said the district doctor, 44 is a good Italian abb6, 
who lives next door to you. Shall I call on him as I pass? ” 

44 D’Avrigny,” said Villefort, 44 be so kind, I beseech you, asto 
accompany this gentleman. Here is the key of the door, so that 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTC 


43 ? 


!*0u can go in and out as you please : you will bring the priesl 
with you, and will oblige me by introducing him into my child’s 
room. ’ ’ 

As the doctors entered the street, they saw a man in a cassock 
standing on the threshold of the next door. “This is the abbe of 
whom I spoke,” said the doctor to D’Avrigny. D’Avrigny 
accosted the priest. “Sir,” he said, “ are you disposed to confer 
a great obligation on an unhappy father who has just lost hU 
daughter? I mean M. de Villefort, the royal prosecutor.” 

“ Ah ! ” said the priest, with a marked Italian accent ; “ yes, I 
have heard that death is in that house.” 

“ It is a girl.” 

“ I know it, sir ; the servants who fled from the house informed 
me. I also know that her name is Valentine, and I have already 
prayed for her.” 

“Thank you, sir,” said D’Avrigny; “since you have com- 
menced your sacred office, deign to continue it. Come and 
watch by the dead, and all the wretched family will be grateful to 
you.” 

“I am going, sir ; ana I do not hesitate to say that no prayers 
will be more fervent than mine.” 

D’Avrigny took the priest’s hand, and without meeting Villefort, 
engaged in his study, they reached Valentine’s room, which on 
the following night was to be occupied by the undertakers. On 
entering the room, Noirtier’s eyes met the abbe’s and no doubt he 
read some particular expression in them, for he remained in the 
room. D’Avrigny recommended the attention of the priest to the 
living as well as to the dead, and the abbe promised to devote his 
prayers to Valentine and his attentions to Noirtier. In order, 
doubtless, that he might not be disturbed while fulfilling his sacred 
mission, the priest, as soon as D’Avrigny departed, rose, and 
not only bolted the door through which the doctor had just lefi^ 
but also that leading to Mdme. de Villefort’ s room. 


CHAPTER Lai!. 

DANGLARS’ SIGNATURE, 

The next morning rose sad and cloudy. During the night the 
Undertakers had executed their melancholy office. During the 
evening two men carried Noirtier from Valentine s room into his 
own, and, contrary to all expectation, there was no difficulty in 
withdrawing him from his child. Abbe Busoni had watched till 
daylight, and then left without calling any one. D’Avrigny re- 
turned about eight o’colck in the morning ; he met Villefort on his 


438 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 

way to Noirtier’s room, and accompained him to see how the old 
man had slept. They found him in the large arm-chair, which 
served him for a bed, enjoying a calm, nay, almost a smiling 
sleep. &gt; 

“ Grief has stunned him,” replied D’Avrigny ; and they both 
returned thoughtfully to the study. 

“ See, I have not slept," said Villefort, showing his undisturbed 
bed ; “grief does not stun me. I have not been in bed for two 
nights ; but then look at my desk ; I have filled out those papers, 
and drawn the accusation against the assassin Benedetto. Oh, 
work ! work ! my passion, my joy, my delight ! it is for you to 
alleviate my sorrows! " and he convulsively grasped the hand of 
D’Avirgny. 

At twelve o’clock the mourning-coaches rolled into the paved 
court, and the street was filled with a crowd of idlers, equally 
pleased to witness the festivities or the mourning of the rich, and 
who rush with the same avidity to a funeral procession as to the 
marriage of a duchess. Gradually the reception-room filled, and 
some of our old friends made their appearance — we mean Debray, 
Chateau-Renaud, and Beauchamp, accompanied by all the leading 
men of the day at the bar, in literature, or the army, for M. de 
Villefort moved in the first Parisian circles, less owing to his social 
■position than to his personal merit. $ 

“ Poor girl ! " said Debrav, like the rest, paying an involuntary 
tribute to the sad event, — “Poor girl! so young! so rich! so 
beautiful ! Could you have imagined this scene, Chateau-Renaud, 
when we saw her, at the most three weeks ago, about to sign that 
contract? " 

“Indeed, no ! ” said Chateau-Renaud. “But whom are you 
seeking, Debray ? " 

“I am seeking the Count of Monte-Cristo," said the young 
jhan. 

“ I met him on the Boulevard, on my road here," said Beau- 
champ. “ I think he is about to leave Paris ; he was going to his 
banker." 

“His banker? Danglars is his banker, is he not?" asked 
Chateau-Renaud of Debray. 

“ I believe so," replied the secretary, with slight uneasiness. 

Beauchamp told the truth when he said, that on his road to the 
funeral he had met Monte-Cristo, who was directing his steps to- 
ward Danglars’. The banker saw the carriage of the count enter 
the court-yard, and advanced to meet him with a sad, though 
affable smile. “Well!" said he, extending his hand to Monte- 
Cristo, “ I suppose you have come to sympathize with me, for in- 
deed misfortune has taken possession of my house." $ 

“Still, baron," said Monte-Cristo, “family griefs, or indeed 
any other aftlicition which would crush a man whose child was his 
only treasure, are endurable to a millionaire. Philosophers may 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


439 


well say, and practical men will always support the opinion, that 
money mitigates many trials ; and if you admit the efficacy of this 
sovereign balm, you ought to be very easily consoled ; you, the 
king of finance, who form the intersecting point of all the powers 
of Europe, nay, the world ! ” 

Danglars looked at him obliquely, as though to ascertain 
whether he spoke seriously. “ Yes,” he answered, “if a fortune 

brings consolation, I ought to be consoled ; I am rich.” “ So 

rich, dear sir, that your fortune resembles the pyramids : if you 
wished to demolish them you could not ; if it were possible, you 
v/ould not dare ! ” Danglars smiled at the good-natured pleasan- 
try of the count. “That reminds me,” he said, “ that when you 
entered I was on the point of signing five little bonds ; I have 
already signed two, will you allow me to do the same to the 
others? ” — — “ Pray do so.” 

There was a moment’s silence, during which the noise of the 
banker’s pen was alone heard, while Monte-Cristo examined the 
gilt mouldings on the ceiling. “ Are they Spanish, Haitian or 
Neapolitan bonds?” said Monte-Cristo. “ Neither,” said Dang- 
lars, smiling, “ they are bonds on the bank of France, payable to 
bearer. Stay,” he added, “ count, you, who maybe called the 
emperor, if I claim the title of king of finance, have you many 
pieces of paper of this size, each worth a million? ” 

The count took the papers, which Danglars had so proudly pre- 
sented to him, into his hands, and read : — 

“To the Governor of the Bank. Please to pay to my order, 
from the fund deposited by me, the sum of a million. 

“ Baron Danglars.*' 

“ One, two, three, four, five,'* said Monte-Cristo; “five mill- 
ions! It is a fine thing to have such credit ; really, it is only in 
France these things are done. Five millions on five little scraps 
of paper ! — it must be seen to be believed.” 

" You do not doubt it ? ” “ No ! ” 

“ You say so with a tone ! stay, you shall be convinced ; take 
my clerk to the bank, and you will see him leave it with an order 
on the Treasury for the same sum.” 

” No ! ” said Monte-Cristo, folding up the five notes, “ most de- 
cidedly not ; the thing is so curious, I will make the experiment 
myself. I am credited on you for six millions. I have drawn 
nine hundred thousand francs, you therefore still owe me five 
millions and a hundred thousand francs. I will take the five 
scraps of paper that I now hold as bonds, with your signature 
alone, and here is a receipt in full for the six millions between us. 
I had prepared it beforehand, for I am much in want of money 
to-day.” And Monte-Cristo placed the bonds in his pocket with 
one hand, while with the other he held out the receipt to Dan- 


440 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


glars. If a thunderbolt had fallen at the banker’s feet, he could 
not have experienced greater terror. 

“Then I may keep this money?” “Yes,” said Danglars, 

while the perspiration started from the roots of his hair. “Yes, 
keep it — keep it.” 

Monte-Cristo replaced the notes in his pocket with that inde- 
scribable expression which seems to say, “ Come, reflect ; if you 
repent there is still time.” 

“ No,” said Danglars, “ no, decidedly no ; keep my signatures. 
But you know none are so formal as bankers in transacting busi- 
ness ; I intended this money for the hospital, and I seemed to be 
robbing them if I did not pay them with these precise bonds. 
How absurd ! as if one crown were not as good as another. Ex. 
cuse me ; ” and he began to laugh loudly, but nervously. 

“ Certainly, I excuse you,” said Monte-Cristo, graciously, “and 

pocket them.” And he placed the bonds in his pocket-book. 

“ But,” said Danglars, “ there is still a sum of one hundred thou- 
sand francs ? ” 

“Oh! a mere nothing,” said Monte-Cristo. “The balance 
would come to about that sum ; but keep it, and we shall be 
quits.” 

“ Count,” said Danglars, “ are you speaking seriously?” 

“I never joke with bankers,” said Monte-Cristo in a freezing 
manner, which repelled impertinence ; and he turned to the door, 
just as the footman announced, — “ M. de Boville, receiver-gen- 
eral of the hospitals.” 

“ Faith! ” said Monte-Cristo ; “ I think I arrived just in time to 
obtain your signatures, or they would have been disputed with 
me.” 

Danglars again became pale, and hastened to conduct the count 
out. Monte-Cristo exchanged a ceremonious bow with M. de 
Boville, who was standing in the waiting-room, and who was in- 
troduced into Danglars* room as soon as the count had left. The 
count’s sad face was illumined by a faint smile, as he noticed the 
portfolio which the receiver-general held in his hand. At the 
door he found his carriage, and was immediately driven to the 
bank. Meanwhile Danglars, repressing all emotion, advanced 
to meet the receiver-general. We need not say that a smile of 
condescension was stamped upon his lips. “ Good morning, cred- 
itor,” said he ; “for I wager anything it is the creditor who visits 

me.” “You are right, baron,” answered M. de Boville ; “I 

have brought my receipt.” 

“My dear M. Boville, your widows and orphans must oblige me 
by waiting twenty-four hours, since Monte-Cristo, whom you just 
saw leaving here — has just carried off their five millions.” 

“ How so ? ” 

“ The count has an unlimited credit upon me ; a credit opened 
by Thomson and French, of Rome; he came to demand five 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 44! 


millions at once, which I paid him with the cheques on the bank; 
my funds are deposited there; and you can understand that if I 
draw out ten millions on the same day, it will appear rather strange 
to the governor. Two days will be a different thing,” said Dan- 
glars, smiling. 

“Come,” said Boville, with a tone of entire incredulity, “five 
millions to that gentleman who just left, and who bowed to rne as 

though he knew me! ” “ Here is his receipt. Believe your 

own eyes,” M. de Boville took the paper Danglars presented him, 
and read : — 

«* Received of Baron Danglars the sum of five millions one hun- 
dred thousand francs ; which will be repaid when ever he pleases 
by the house of Thomson and French of Rome.” 

“ It is really true,” said de Boville. 

“ Do you know the house of Thomson and French ? ’* “ Yes, 

I once had business to transact with it to the amount of 200,000 

francs ; but since then I have not heard it mentioned.” “ It is 

one of the best houses in Europe,” said Danglars, carelessly 
throwing down the receipt on his desk. 

“And he had five millions in your hands alone! Why, this 
count of Monte-Cristo must be a nabob? ” 

“ Indeed I do not know what he is ; he has three unlimited 
credits — one on me, one on the Rothschild, one on Lafitte ; and 
you see,” he added, carelessly, “he has given me the preference, 
by leaving a balance of 100,000 francs.” M. de Boville mani- 
fested signs of extraordinary admiration. “ I must visit him,” he 
said, “ and obtain some pious grant from him.” 

“ Oh ! you may make sure of him ; his charities alone amount 
to 20,000 francs per month.” 

“ It is magnificent ! I will set before him the example of Mdme. 
de Morcerf and her son. They gave all their fortune to the hos- 
pitals, because they would not spend money so guiltily acquired.” 

* “ And what are they to live upon? ” 

«* The mother retires into the country, and the son enters the 
army.” 

“Well, I must confess, these are queer scruples.” 

“ I registered their deed of gift yesterday.” 

“ And how much did they possess ? ” 

Oh ! not much ! from twelve to thirteen hundred thousand 
francs. But to return to our millions.” 

“ Certainly,” said Danglars in the most natural tone in the 
world. “ Are you, then, pressed for this money ? ” 

“ Yes ; for the examination of our cash takes place to-morrow.” 
“To-morrow ! — Why did you not tell me so before ? Why, it is 
as good as a century ! At what hour does the examination take 
place ? * * 


442 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


M At two o’clock.” 

“ Send at twelve,” said Danglars, smiling. 

“ I will come myself.” 

“ Better still, since it will afford me the pleasure of seeing you. 
They shook hands. 41 By the way,” said M. de Boville, “ are you 
not going to the funeral of poor Mdlle. de Villefort, which I met 
on my road here?” “No,” said the banker; “ I have ap- 

peared rather ridiculous since that affair of Benedetto, so 1 remain 
in the background.” 

“ Bah ! you are wrong. How were you to blame in that affair ! 
Everybody pities you, sir ; and, above all, Mdlle. Danglars ! ” 

*• Poor Eugenie ! M said Danglars ; “ do you know she is going 
to embrace a religious life ? she decided on leaving Paris with a 
nun of her acquaintance ; they are gone to seek a very strict com 
vent in Italy or Spain.” 

“ Oh ! it is terrible ! ” and M. de Boville retired with this excla* 
tion, after expressing acute sympathy with the father. 

But he had scarcely left before Danglars exclaimed, “ Fool ! ! ! ” 
Then, enclosing Monte-Cristo’s receipt in a little pocket-book, he 
added : — “ Yes, come at twelve o’clock ; I shall then be fat 
away.” Then he double-locked his door ; emptied all his drawers, 
collected about fifty-thousand francs in bank-notes, burned sev- 
eral papers, left others exposed to view, and then commenced 
writing a letter to his wife. 

“ I will place it on her dressing-table myself to-night,” he mur* 
mured. Then taking a passport from his drawer he said, — “ Good, 
it is available for two months longer." 


CHAPTER LXIH. 

AFTER THE FUNERAL. 

M. DE Boville had indeed met the funeral procession which 
conducted Valentine to her last home on earth. The weather was 
dull and stormy, a cold wind shook the few remaining yellow 
leaves from the boughs of the trees, and scattered them amongst 
the crowd which filled the Boulevards. As they left Paris, an 
equipage with four horses, at full speed, was seen to draw up sud- 
denly : it contained Monte-Cristo. The count left the carriage 
and mingled in the crowd who followed on foot. At length they 
arrived at the cemetery. The piercing eye of Monte-Cristo 
glanced through clusters of bushes and trees, and was soon re- 
lieved from all anxiety, for he saw a shadow glide between the 
yew-trees, and Monte-Cristo recognized him whom he sought. 
When the procession stopped, this shadow was recognized as Mor« 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


443 


re! ; who, with his coat buttoned up to his throat, his face livid, 
and convulsively crushing his hat between his fingers, leaned 
against a tree, situated on an elevation commanding the mauso- 
leum, so that none of the funeral details could escape his obser- 
vation. Everything was conducted in the usual manner. 

Monte-Cristo heard and saw nothing, or rather he only saw 
Morrel, whose calmness had a frightful effect on those who knew : 
what was passing in his heart. The funeral over, the guests re- j 
turned to Paris. Chateau-Renaud looked for a moment for Mor« * 
rel ; but while watching the departure of the count, Morrel had 
quitted his post, and Chateau-Renaud, failing in his search, joined 
Debray and Beauchamp. 

Monte-Cristo concealed himself behind a large tomb, and waited 
the arrival of Morrel, who, by degrees, approached the tomb now 
abandoned by spectators and workmen. Morrel threw a glance 
around, but before it reached the spot occupied by Monte-Cristo, 
the latter had advanced yet nearer, still unperceived. The young 
man knelt down. The count, with outstretched neck, and glaring 
eyes, stood in an attitude ready to pounce upon Morrel upon the 
first occasion. Morrel bent his head till it touched the stone, then 
clutching the grating with both hands, he murmured, — “Oh! 
Valentine!” The count’s heart was pierced by the utterance of 
these two words ; he stepped forward, and touching the young 
man’s shoulder, said, — “ I was looking for you, my friend.” 
Monte-Cristo expected a burst of passion, but he was deceived, for 
Morrel turning round, said with calmness, — 

" You see I was praying.” The scrutinizing glance of the count 
searched the young man from head to foot. He then seemed 
more easy. 

“ Shall I drive you back to Paris? ” he asked. 

" No, thank you.” 

“ Do you wish anything?” 

“ Leave me to pray.” The count withdrew without opposition, 
but it was only to place himself in a situation where he could 
watch every movement of Morrel, who at length rose, brushed the 
dust from his knees, and turned toward Paris, without once look- 
ing back. 

“Ah, count!” exclaimed Julie with the delight manifested 
by every member of the family whenever he visited. 

“Maximilian has just returned, has he not, madame ? ” asked 
the count. 

“ Yes, I think I saw him pass ; but pray, call Emmanuel.” 

“ Excuse me, madame, but I must go up to Maximilian’s room 
this instant,” replied Monte-Cristo, “ I have something of the 
greatest importance to tell him.” 

"Go, then,” she said, with a charming smile, which accompa- 
nied him until he had disappeared. Monte-Cristo soon ran up the 
staircase conducting from the ground-floor to Maximilian’s room; 


444 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


when he reached the landing he listened attentively, but all wa$ 
still. 

“ What shall I do?” he uttered, and reflected a moment; 
“shall I ring? No, the sound of a bell, announcing a visitor, 
will but accelerate the resolution of one in Maximilian’s situation, 
and then the bell would be followed by a louder noise.” Monte- 
Cristo trembled from head to foot, and as if his determination had 
been taken with the rapidity of lightning, he struck one ^f the 
panes of glass with his elbow ; the glass was shivered to atoms, 
then withdrawing the curtain, he saw Morrel, who had been writ* 
ing at his desk, b@und from his seat at the noise of the broken 
window. 

“ I beg a thousand pardons ! ” said the count, “there is nothing 
the matter, but I slipped down and broke one of your panes of 
glass with my elbow. Since it is open, I will take advantage of it 
to enter your room ; do not disturb yourself — do not disturb your* 
self! ” And passing his hand through the broken glass, the count 
opened the door. Morrel, evidently discomposed, came to meet 
Monte-Cristo, less with the intention of receiving him than to ex- 
clude his entry. 

“Are you hurt, sir ?’ 1 coldly asked he. 

“ I believe not. But what are you about there? you were writ* 
lng.” 

“Ah, true, I was writing. I do sometimes, soldier though I 
am.” 

Monte-Cristo advanced into the room ; Maximilian was obliged 
to let him pass, but he followed him. 

The count looked around him. “ Your pistols are beside your 
desk,” said Monte-Cristo, pointing with his finger to the pistols on 
the table. 

“I am on the point of starting on a journey,” replied Morrel, 

disdainfully. “ My friend ! ” exclaimed Monte-Cristo, in a tone 

of exquisite sweetness.- “Sir?” “My friend, my dear 

Maximilian, you are going to destroy yourself! ” 

“Indeed, count!” said Morrel, shuddering; “what has put 
this into your head?”— — “I tell you that you are about to de- 
stroy yourself,” continued the count, “and here is the proof of 
what I say ; ” and, approaching the desk, he removed the sheet 
of paper which Morrel had placed over the letter he had begun, 
and took the latter in his hands. 

Morrel rushed forward to tear it from him ; but Monte-Cristo, 
perceiving his intention, seized his wrist with his iron grasp. “ You 
wish to destroy yourself,” said the count ; “ you have written it.” 

“ Well ! ” said Morrel, changing his expression of calmness for 
one of violence — “well, and if I do intend to turn this pistol 
against myself, who shall prevent me — who will dare prevent me ? 
You, who have deceived me with false hopes, who have cheered 
and soothed me with vain promises, when I "night, if no 1 have 


THE COUAT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


445 


Saved her, at least have seen her die in my arms ! you, who pre- 
tend to understand everything, even the hidden sources of knowl- 
edge ! you, who enact the part of a guardian angel upon earth, 
and could not even find an antidote to a poison administered to 
a girl ! Ah, sir, since you have devised a new torture after I 
thought I had exhausted them all, then. Count of Monte-Cristo, 
my pretended benefactor — then, Count of Monte-Cristo, the univer- 
sal guardian, be satisfied, you shall witness the death of your 
friend ; ” and Morrel, with a maniacal laugh, again rushed towards 
the pistols. 

“ And I again repeat, you shall not commit suicide/* 

■* Prevent me, then ! ** replied Morrel, with another struggle, 
which, like the first, failed in releasing him from the count’s iron 
grasp. 

“ I will prevent you. 

•• And who are you, then, that arrogate to yourself this tyranni- 
cal right over free and rational beings? ** 

“ Who am I ? ** repeated Monte-Cristo. “ He who saved your 
father’s life when he wished to destroy himself, as you do to-day 
—because I am the man who sent the purse to your young sister, 
and the Pharaoh to Morrel — because I am the Edmond Dantes 
who dandled you, a child, on my knees.** Morrel made another 
step back, staggering, breathless, crushed ; them all his strength 
gave way, and he fell prostrate at the feet of Monte-Cristo. Then 
his admirable character underwent a complete and sudden revul- 
sion ; he rose, bounded out of the room, and rushed to the stairs, 
exclaiming energetically, “ Julie, Julie! Emanuel, Emanuel ! ** 
Monte-Cristo endeavored also to leave, but Maximilian would 
have died rather than relax his hold of the handle of the door, 
which he closed upon the count. Julie, Emmanuel, and some of 
the servants, ran up in alarm on hearing the cries of Maximilian. 
Morrel seized their hands, and, opening the door, exclaimed, in a 
voice choked with sobs, “ On your knees ! on your knees ! he is 

our benefactor — the saviour of our father ! He is ’* 

He would have added “Edmond Dantes,” but the count 
seized his arm and prevented him. Julie threw herself into into 
the arms of the count ; Emmanuel embraced him as a guardian 
angel ; Morrel again fell on his knees, and struck the ground with 
his forehead. Then the iron-hearted man felt his heart swell in his 
breast , a flame seemed to rush from his throat to his eyes ; he 
bent his head. For a while, nothing was heard in the room but a 
succession of sobs, while the incense from their grateful hearts 
mounted to heaven. Julie had scarcely recovered from her deep 
emotion when she rushed out of the room, descended to the next 
floor, ran into the drawing-room with childlike joy, and raised the 
crystal globe which covered the purse given by the stranger. 
Meanwhile, Emmanuel, in a broken voice, said to the count, “ Oh, 
count, how could you, hearing us so often speak of our unknowa 


44 « 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


beneVsa,ior, seeing us pay such homage of gratitude and adora* 
tion to his memory, how could you continue so long without dis&lt; 
covering yourself to us ? Oh, it was cruel to as, and — dare I say 
it? — to you also.’* 

“Listen, my friends,” said the count — “ I may call you so, 
since we have really been friends for the last eleven years : the 
discovery of this secret has been occasioned by a great event 
which you must never know. I wish to bury it during my whole 
life in my own bosom, but your brother Maximilian wrested it 
from me by a violence he repents of now, I am sure.” Then turn- 
ing round, and seeing that Morrel, still on his knees, had thrown 
himself into an arm-chair, he added in a low voice, pressing 
Emmanuel’s hand significantly : “ My kind friends, leave me 

alone with Maximilian.” Julie drew her husband to the door. 
“ Let us leave them,” she said. 

The count was alone with Morrel, who remained motionless as 
a statue. 

“Come,” said Monte-Cristo, touching his shoulder with his 
finger, “ are you a man again, Maximilian ? ” 

“ O, do not fear, my friend,” said Morrel, raising his head, 
and smiling with a sweet expression ; “ I shall no longer attempt 
my life. My grief will kill me of itself.” 

“My friend,” said Monte-Cristo, with an expression of melan- 
choly equal to his own, “listen to me: one day, in a moment of 
despair like yours, since it led to a similar resolution, I, like you, 
wished to kill myself ; one day your father, equally desperate, 
wished to kill himself too. If any one had said to your father, at the 
moment he raised the pistol to his head — if any one had told me, 
when in my prison I pushed back the food I had not tasted for 
three days — if any one had said to either of us then, * Live ! the 
day will come when you will be happy, and will bless life ! 3 ~- no 
matter whose voice had spoken, we should have heard him with 
the smile of doubt, or the anguish of incredulity ; and yet how 
many times has your father blessed life while embracing you! 
how often have I myself -” 

“Ah!” exclaimed Morrel, interrupting the count, “you had 
only lost your liberty, my father had only lost his fortune, but I 
have lost my love.” 

“Look at me,” said Monte-Cristo, with that expression which 
sometimes made him so eloquent and persuasive — “ I have told 
you to hope.” 

“ Then have a care, 1 repeat, for you seek to persuade me. and 
if you succeed I should lose my reason, fori should hope that I 
could again behold Valentine.” The count smiled. 

“ I tell you to hope, because I have a method of curing you.” 

“Count, you render me sadder than before, if it be possible. 
You think the result of this blow has been to produce an ordinary 
grief, and you would cure it by an ordinary remedy— change 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


447 


scene.*' And Morrel dropped his head with disdainful incredulity. 
•‘What can I say more?” asked Monte-Cristo. “I have con- 
fidence in the remedy I propose, and only ask you to permit me to 
assure you of its efficacy.” 

“Count, you prolong my agony.** \ 

“ I feel so much pity towards you, Maximilian, that — listen to \ 
me attentively — if I do not cure you in a month, to the day, to 
the very hour, mark my words, Morrel, I will place loaded pistols 
before you, and a cup full of the deadliest Italian poison — a poison 
more sure and prompt than that aimed at Valentine.” 

“ In a month, then, on your honor, if I ara not consoled, you will 
let me take my life into my own hands, and, whatever may hap* 
pen, you will not call me ungrateful? ** 

“In a month you will find on the table, at which we shall be 
then sitting, good pistols and a delicious draught ; but, on the other 
hand, you must promise me not to attempt your life before thaf 
time.” 

“Oh! I also swear it.’* Monte-Cristo drew the young man to- 
ward him, and pressed him for some time to his heart. “And 
now,” he said, “ after to-day, you will come and live with me ; 
you can occupy Haydee’s apartment, and my daughter will at 
least be replaced by my son.” 


CHAPTER LXIV. 

THE ASSIZES. 

The Benedetto Case, as it was called in the high court, and 
best resorts, in general, had produced a tremendous sensation* 
Every one, therefore, ran to the court : some to witness the sight, 
others to comment upon it. 

It was one of those magnificent autumn days which make 
amends for a short summer. One of the softest and most brilliant 
days of September shone forth in all its splendor. 

Beauchamp, one of the kings of the press, and therefore claim- 
ing the right of a throne everywhere, was looking round on every 
side. He perceived Chateau-Renaud, and Debray, who had just 
gained the good graces of an usher and persuaded the latter to let 
them stand before, instead of behind him. The worthy officer had 
recognized the minister’s secretary and the millionnaire, and, by 
way of paying extra attention to his noble neighbors, promised 
keep their places while they paid a visit to Beauchamp. 

“ Well ! ** said Beauchamp, “ we shall see our friend ! ** 

“Yes, indeed ! ’* replied Debray. “That worthy prince. Deuce 
take those Italian princes l *' 


448 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


“ Ball !” said Beauchamp, “ he played the prince very well.” 

“ Yes, for you who detest those unhappy princes, Beauchamp, 
and are always delighted to find fault with them* but not for me, 
who discover a gentleman by instinct, and who scent out an aris- 
tocratic family like a very bloodhound of heraldry.” 

" Then you never believed in the principality ? ” 

“ Yes ! in the principality, but not in the prince. '* 

" Not so bad,” said Beauchamp. “ Stay, surely I am not de° 
ceived. They said she had left town ? ” 

"Mdlle. Eugenie?*' said Chateau-Renaud ; "has she come 
here ? ” 

“ No ! but her mother.'* 

" Mdme. Danglars? Nonsense ! Impossible .' " said Chateau- 
Renaud ; “ only ten days after the flight of her daughter, and three 
days from the bankruptcy of her husband ? ” 

Debray colored slightly, and followed with his eyes the direc- 
tion of Beauchamp’s glance. 

“ Come,” he said, “ it is only a veiled lady, some foreign prin- 
cess ; perhaps the mother of Cavalcanti. But how is it that 
Mdme. de Villefort is not here ? ” 

M Poor, dear woman ! ” said Debray, •• she is no doubt occu- 
pied in distilling balm for the hospitals, or in making cosmetics for 
lierself or friends. Do you know she spends two or three thou- 
sand crowns a year :n this amusement ? But I wonder she is not 
here. I should have been pleased to see her, for I like her very 
much.” 

" And I hate her/ J said Chateau-Renaud. '• But to return to 
what you were saying, Beauchamp.” 

•* Well ! do you know why people die so fast in M. de Villen 
fort’s house ? No? Well, gentlemen, the reason people die so fast at 
M. de Villefort’ s, is, that there is an assassin in the house ! ” 

The two young men shuddered, for the same idea had more 
than once occurred to them. “ And who is the assassin?” they 
asked together. 1 

&lt;4 Little Edward ! " A burst of laughter from the auditors did 
not in the least disconcert the speaker, who continued: “Yes, 

gentlemen ; Edward, who is quite an adept in the art of killing.” 
“ It is absurd,” said Debray. 

“ Does his mother, then, keep poisons in her laboratory ? ” 

•• How can I tell? You are questioning me like a prosecutor f 
I only repeat what I have been told.” 

•• It is incredible ! “ No, my dear fellow, it is not at all in- 

credible i The generation who follow us are very precocious ! ” 

" I do not see the Count of Monte-Cristo here ! ” 

•* He is worn out,” said Debray ; “ besides, he could not well 
appear in public, since he has been the dupe of the Cavalcanti, 
who, it appears, presented themselves to him with false letters qi 
credit, and ''heated, him qv» t of x&amp;q,qqo francs upon the hypothec 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 449 

Of this principality.” " Ah p now I think of it, the Count of 

Monte-Cristo cannot appear in the hall ! ” said Beauchamp.™— 
u Why not? ” 

“ Because he is an actor in the drama/* 

" Has he assassinated any one then? ” " No, on the con- 

trary, they tried to assassinate him. You know that it was in leav- 
ing his house that Caderousse was murdered by his friend Bene- 
detto. You know that the famous waistcoat was found in his 
house, containing the letter which stopped the signature of the 
marriage-contract. Do you see the waistcoat ? There it is, all 
blood-stained, on the desk, as a testimony of the crime.’* 

"Ah, very good.”-- — "Hush, gentlemen 1 here is the courts 
let us go back to our places.” 

The judges took their places in the midst of the most profound 
silence ; the jury took their seats ; M. de Villefort, the object of 
unusual attention, almost of general admiration, sat in the arm- 
chair, and cast a tranquil glance around him. Every person 
looked with astonishment on that grave and severe face, the calm 
expression of which personal griefs had been unable to disturb ; 
and the aspect of a man who was a stranger to all human emor 
tions, excited a kind of terror. 

" Officers ! ** said the president, " lead in the accused.” 

At these words the public attention became more intense, and 
all eyes were turned towards the door through which Benedetto 
was to enter. The door soon opened, and the accused appeared. 
The same impression was experienced by all present ; and no one 
was deceived by the expression of his countenance. His featured 
bore no sign of that deep emotion which stops the beating of the 
heart and blanches the cheek. His hands, gracefully placed, one 
upon his hat, the other in the opening of his white waistcoat, were 
not at all tremulous ; his eye was calm, and even brilliant. 
Scarcely had he entered the hall, when he glanced at the whole 
body of magistrates and assistants : his eye rested longer on the 
president, and still more so on the official accuser. By the side of 
Andrea was placed the lawyer who was to conduct his defence, 
chosen by the court ; for Andrea disdained to pay any attention to 
those details. The lawyer was a young man whose face expressed 
a hundred times more emotion than that which characterized the 
prisoner. 

The president called for the indictment, corrected, as we know, 
by the sharp and implacable pen of Villefort. During the reading 
of this, which was long, attention was continually drawn toward 
Andrea, who bore the burden with Spartan unconcern. Villefort had 
never been so concise and eloquent : the crime was represented 
under the liveliest colors ; the former life of the prisoner, his trans- 
formation, a review of his life from the earliest period, were set 
forth with all the talent that a knowledge of human life could fur 
/lish to a mind like that of the procurer du roi. Benedetto was 

29 


4JO 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


thin* for ever ruined in public opinion before the sentence o i th« 
law could be pronounced. Andrea paid no attention to the sue* 
cessive charges which were brought against him. M. de Villefort, 
who examined him attentively, and who no doubt practised upon 
him all the psychological studies he was accustomed to use, in 
vain endeavored to make him lower his eyes, notwithstanding the 
depth and profundity of his gaze. At length the charge was read. 

“ Accused,” said the president, “ your name and surname ? M 

Andrea arose. “ Excuse me, sir,” he said, in a clear voice, “ but 
I see you are going to adopt a course of questions through which I 
cannot follow you. I have an idea, which I will explain by-and- 
oy, of making an exception to the usual form of accusation. Allow 
me, then, if you please, to answer in different order, or I will not 
do so at all.” The astonished president looked at the jury, who 
themselves looked upon the prosecutor. The whole assembly 
manifested great surprise ; but Andrea appeared quite unmoved. 

“ Your age ? ” said the president : “ will you answer that ques- 
tion?” “ I will answer that question, as well as the rest, sir, 

but in its turn.” 

“ Your age?” repeated the president. 

“ I am twenty-one years old ; or rather I shall be in a few days, 
as I was born the night of the 27th of September, 1817.” Ville- 
fort, who was busy taking down some notes, raised his head at the 
mention of this date. 

“ Where were you born ? ” continued the president. 

“ At Auteuil, near Paris.” M. de Villefort a second time raised 
his head, looked at Benedetto, as if he had been gazing at the 
head of Medusa, and became livid. As for Benedetto, he grace- 
fully wiped his lips with a fine cambric pocket-handkerchief. 

46 Your profession ? ” 

M First I was a forger,” answered Andrea, as calmly as possi* 
ble ; “then I became a thief ; and, lately, have become a mur- 
derer.” A murmur, or rather storm, of indignation burst from all 
parts of the assembly. The judges themselves appeared stupefied ; 
and the jury manifested tokens of disgust for a stoicism so uncx- 

E ected from a fashionable man. Villefort pressed his hand upon 
is brow, which, at first pale, had become red and burning ; then 
he suddenly rose, and looked around as though he had lost his 
senses — he wanted air. 

“Are you looking for anything, sir ? ” asked Benedetto, with his 
most pleasing smile. Villefort answered nothing, but sat, or rather 
threw himself down again upon his chair. 

“ And now, prisoner, will you consent to tell your name ? ” said 
the president. “ The brutal affectation with which you have 
enumerated and classified you crimes calls for a severe reprimand 
on the part of the court, both in the name of morality, and for the 
respect due to humanity. You appear to consider this a point of 
honor, and it may be for this reason you have delayed acknowl- 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 45 1 

edging your name. You wished it to be preceded by all these 
titles.” 

* ‘ It is quite wonderful, sir, how fully you have read my 
thoughts,’’ said Benedetto, in his sofest voice and most polite 
manner. “ This is, indeed, the reason 1 begged you to alter the 
order of the questions.” The public astonishment had reached 
its height. There was no longer any deceit or bravado in the 
manner of the accused. The audience seemed to dread some 
thunder-cloud would burst over the gloomy scene. 

“ Well ! ” said the president ; M your name ? ” 

“ I cannot tell you my name, since I do not know it ; but I know 
piy father’s, and will utter it.” 

“Repeat your father’s name,” said the president. Not a 
whisper, not a breath was heard in that vast assembly ; every one 
waited anxiously. 

“ My father is the Attorney-General,” replied Andrea, calmly. 

“The Attorney-General?” said the president, stupefied, and 
without noticing the agitation which spread over the face of M. de 

Villefort. “ Yes ; and if you wish to know his name, I will tell 

it, — it is Villefort.” 

The explosion, which had been so long restrained, from a feel- 
ing of respect to the court of justice, now burst forth like thunder 
from the breasts of all present ; the court itself did not seek to re« 
strain the movement. The exclamations, and insults addressed ta 
Benedetto, who remained perfectly unconcerned, the energetic 
gestures, the stir of the gendarmes, the sneers of the scum of the 
crowd — always sure to rise to the surface in case of any distur- 
bance-all this lasted five minutes, before the door-keepers and 
magistrates were able to restore silence. In the midst of this 
tumult the voice of the president was heard to exclaim, — “ Are 
you playing with justice, prisoner, and do you dare set your fel- 
low-citizens an example of disorder which even in these times has 
never been equaled? ” 

Order was re-established in the hall, with the exception of a few 
who still moved and whispered. A lady, it was said, had just 
fainted ; supplied with a smelling-bottle, she had recovered. Dur- 
ing the tumult, Andrea had kept his smiling face toward the as- 
sembly ; then, leaning with one hand on the oaken rail of his 
bench, in the most graceful attitude possible, he said: — “Gen- 
tlemen, I assure you I had no idea of insulting the court, or of 
making a useless disturbance in the presence of this honorable 
assembly. You ask my age ; I tell it. You ask where I was 
born ; I answer. You ask my name ; I cannot give it, since my 
parents abandoned me. But though I cannot give my own name, 
not possessing one, I can tell them my father’s. Now I repeat, 
my father is named Villefort, and I am ready to prove it.” 

There was an energy, a conviction, and a sincerity in the man- 
wet i.f the young m&amp;n, which silenced the tumult, All eyet 


452 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


were turned for a moment toward the procureur du roi, who sat 
as motionless as though a thunderbolt had changed him into a 
corpse. “Gentlemen!” said Andrea, commanding silence by 
his voice and manner. “Do you wish for details? I will give 
them. I was born in No. 28, Rue de la Fontaine, in a room 
hung with red damask : my father took me in his arms, telling 
my mother I was dead ; wrapped me in a napkin marked with an 
H and an N ; and carried me into a garden, where he buried me 
alive.” 

A shudder ran through the assembly when they saw that the 
confidence of the prisoner increased in proportion with the terror 
of M. de Villefort. 

“ A man who had sworn vengeance against my father, and had 
long watched his opportunity to kill him, introduced himseli 
that night into the garden in which my father buried me. 
He was concealed in a thicket ; he saw my father bury some- 
thing in the ground, and stabbed him in the midst of the 
operation ; then, thinking the deposit might contain some treasure, 
he turned up the ground, and found me still living. The man car- 
ried me to the Foundling Hospital, where I was entered under the 
number 37. Three months afterwards, a woman traveled from 
Rogliano to Paris to fetch me, and having claimed me as her son, 
carried me away. Thus, you see, though born in Paris, I was 
brought up in Corsica.” 

There was a moment’s silence, during which one could have 
fancied the hall empty, so profound was the stillness. “ I might 
have lived happily amongst those good people, who adored me ; 
but my perverse disposition prevailed over the virtues which my 
adopted mother endeavored to instil into my heart. I increased in 
wickedness till I committed crime. One day when I cursed Provi- 
dence for making me so wicked, and ordaining me to such a fate, 
my adopted father said to me, 4 Do not blaspheme, unhappy 
child! the crime is your father’s not yours; who devoted you to 
death, or to a life of misery, in case, by a miracle, you should 
escape his doom.* Since then I ceased to blaspheme, but I 
cursed my father. This is why I have uttered the words for which 
you blame me ; and filled this whole audience with horror. If I 
have committed an additional crime, punish me ; but if you will 
allow that ever since the day of my birth my fate has been sad, 
bitter, and lamentable, then pity me.” 

“ But your mother? ” asked the president. 

“ My mother thought me dead ; she is not guilty. I did not 
even wish to know her name, nor do I know it.” Just then a 
piercing shriek ending in a sob, burst from the centre of the 
crowd, who encircled the lady who had before fainted, and who 
now fell in violent hysterics. She was carried out of the hall, and 
in doing so, the thick veil which concealed her face dropped off, 
3 ,nd Mdme, Danglars was recognized. Notwithstanding his shat' 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 453 

tered nerves, the stunning sensation in his ears, and the madness 
which turned his brain, Villefort rose as he perceived her. 

“ The proofs! the proofs!” said the president; “remember 
this tissue of horrors must be supported by the clearest proofs.” 

“ Look at M. de Villefort, and then ask me for proofs.” 

Every one turned toward the lawyer, who, unable to bear the 
universal gaze now riveted on him alone, advanced, staggering, 
into the midst of the court, with his hair dishevelled, and his face 
indented with the mark of his nails. The whole assembly ut- 
tered a long murmur of astonishment. 

“Father!” said Benedetto, “I am asked for proofs, do you 
wish me to give them ? ” 

“ No, no, it is useless ! ” stammered M. de Villefort, in a hoarse 
voice ; “ no, it is useless! ” 

“ How useless ? ” cried the president, “ what do you mean ? ” 

“ I mean that I feel it impossible to struggle against this deadly 
weight which crushes me. Gentlemen, I know I am in the hands of 
an avenging God ! We need no proofs ; everything relating to this 
young man is true.” A dull, gloomy silence, like that which pre- 
cedes some awful phenomenon of nature, pervaded the assembly, 
who shuddered in dismay. “What! M. de Villefort,” cried the 
president, “ do you yield to an hallucination ? What ! are you no 
longer in possession of your senses? This strange, unexpected, 
terrible accusation has disordered your reason. Come, recover.” 
The Public Prosecutor dropped his head : his teeth chattered 
Tike a man under a violent attack of fever, and yet he was deadly 
pale. 

“Iam in possession of ah my senses, sir,” he said ; “ my body 
alone suffers, as you may suppose. I acknowledge myself guilty 
of all the young man has brought against me, and from this hour 
hold myself under the authority of my successor.” 

And as he spoke these words with a hoarse, choking voice, he 
staggered toward the door, mechanically opened by a door- 
keeper. The whole assembly were dumb with astonishment at 
the revelation and confession which had produced a catastrophe 
so different to that which had been expected during the last 
fortnight. 

“The sitting is adjourned, gentlemen,” said the president; 
“fresh inquiries will be made, and the case will be tried next 
session by another magistrate.” As for Andrea, calm and more 
interesting than ever, he left the hall, escorted by gendarmes, 
who involuntarily paid him some attention. “ Well, what do 
you think of this, my fine fellow?” asked Debray of the usher, 
slipping a louis into his hand. “ They will find extenuating cir- 
cumstances,” he replied. 


454 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO 


CHAPTER LXV G 

EXPIATION. 

Notwithstanding the density of the crowd, M. dc Villefort 
saw it open before him. Thus Villefort passed through the mass 
of spectators and officers of the Palais, and withdrew. Having 
staggered as far as his carriage, he awoke his sleeping coach- 
man by opening the door himself, threw himself on the cushions, 
and the carriage drove on. One thought filled his mind ; he 
saw the workings of a Divine hand in all that had happened. 
The carriage rolled rapidly. Villefort, while turning restlessly on 
the cushions, felt something press against him. He put out his 
hand to remove the object ; it was a fan which Mdme. de Villefort 
had left in the carriage ; this fan awakened a recollection which 
darted through his mind like lightning. He thought of his wife. 

" Oh ! ” he exclaimed, as though a red-hot iron were piercing 
his heart. During the last hour his own crime had alone been 
presented to his mind ; now another object, not less terrible, sud* 
denly presented itself. 

His wife ! 

Before he left home to fulfil a public duty, he had carried one 
what he esteemed his family charge : he called his wife to him and 
revealed that the authoress of the poisonings in his household was 
no longer unknown to him. He uttered in his coldest tone his sen- 
tence of death upon her and asked if she had not reserved some 
of the poison to save him from having her despatched on the scaf- 
fold? 

He had left her crushed with the discovery. Recovered from 
the shock, might she not even now be preparing to carry out this 
doom upon herself? 

Villefort again groaned with anguish and despair. “ Ah * " he 
exclaimed, “ that woman became criminal only from associating 
with me ! I carried the infec^on of crime with me, and she has 
caught it as she would the typhus-fever, the cholera, the plague ! 
And yet I have punished her — I have dared to tell her — / have — 
' Repent and die ! * But no ! she must not die, she shall live and 
follow me. We will flee from Paris, and go far as the earth 
reaches. I told her of the scaffold ; oh, Heavens! I forgot tha* 
it awaits me also! How could I pronounce that word? Yes, we 
will fly : I will confess all to her, — I will tell her daily that I also 
have committed a crime ! — Oh ! what an alliance with the tigef 
the serpent ! worthy wife of such as I am ! She* ntu»t live 


77/ E COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 


45 $ 


that my infamy may diminish hers.” And Villefort dashed opefl 
the window in front of the carriage. 44 Faster ! faster ! ” he cried* 
in a tone which electrified the coachman. The horses, impelled 
by fear, flew toward the house. 

The carriage stopped at the«loor of the hotel. Villefort leaped 
out of the carriage, and saw his servants, surprised at his early re- 
turn : he could read no other expression on their features. Neither 
of them spoke to him ; they merely stood aside to let him pass by, 
as usual, nothing more. As he passed by M. Noirtier’s room, he 
perceived, through the half-open door, two figures ; but he experi- 
enced no curiosity to know who was visiting his father ; anxiety 
carried him on further. 

44 Come,” he said, as he ascended the stairs leading to his wife’s 
room, “ nothing is changed here.” He rushed toward the door ; 
it was bolted; he stopped, shuddering. 44 Heloise ! ” he cried. 
He fancied he heard the sound of a piece of furniture being re- 
moved. 44 Heloise ! ” he repeated. 

44 Who is there?” answered the voice of her he sought. He 
thought that voice more feeble than usual. 

44 Open the door! ” cried Villefort; 44 open, it is I.” But not- 
withstanding this request, notwithstanding the tone of anguish in 
which it was uttered, the door remained closed. Villefort burst it 
open with a violent blow. At the entrance of the room which led 
to her boudoir, Madame de Villefort was standing erect, pale, her 
features contracted, and her eyes glaring horribly. 44 Heloise ! 
Heloise ! ” he said, 44 what is the matter? Speak ! ” The young 
woman extended her stiff white hand toward him. 44 It is done, 
sir!” she said, with a rattling which seemed to tear her throat. 
44 What more do you want?” and she fell on the floor. Villefort 
ran to her and seized her hand, which convulsively clasped a crys- 
tal bottle with a golden stopper. Mdme. de Villefort was dead. 
Villefort, maddened with horor, stepped back to the threshold of 
the door, fixing his eyes on the corpse : 44 My son ” he exclaimed 

suddenly, 44 where is my son ? — Edward, Edward ! ” The corpse 
was stretched across the doorway leading to the room in which 
Edward must be ; those glaring eyes seemed to watch over the 
threshold, and the lips expressed a terrible and mysterious irony. 
Through the open door a portion of the boudoir was visible, com 
taining an upright piano, and a blue satin couch. Villefort stepped 
forward two or three paces, and beheld his child lying — no 
doubt asleep on the sofa. The unhappy man uttered an exclama- 
tion of joy ; a ray of light seemed to penetrate the abyss of de- 
spair and darkness. He had only to step over the corpse, enter the 
boudoir, take the child in his arms, and flee, far away 

He took the child in his arms, pressed him, shook him, called 
him, but the child replied not. He was dead. A folded paper 
fell from Edward’s breast. Villefort, thunderstruck, fell upon his 
knees ; the child dropped from his arms, and rolled on the floor 


45 « 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


by the side of its mother. He picked up the paper, and, recog« 
nixing his wife’s writing, ran his eyes rapidly over its contents: 
they were as follows : 

" You know that I was a good mother, since it was for my son’s 
sake I became criminal. A good mother cannot depart without 
her son.” 

Villefort could not believe his eyes,— -he could not believe his 
reason ; he dragged himself toward the child’s corpse, and ex- 
amined it as a lioness contemplates its dead cub. Then a pierc- 
ing cry escaped from his breast, and he cried, " Still the hand of 
God.” The two victims alarmed him; he could not bear the 
solitude only shared by two corpses. He descended the little 
stairs with which we are acquainted, and entered Noirtier’s room. 
The old man appeared to be listening attentively and as affec- 
tionately as his infirmities would allow to the Abbe Busoni, who 
looked cold and calm, as usual. Villefort, perceiving the abb£, 
passed his hand across his brow. He recollected the call he had 
made upon him after the dinner at Auteuil, and then the visit the 
abb£ had himself paid to his house on the day of Valentine’s 
death. 11 You here, sir! ” he exclaimed ; 14 do you, then, never 
appear but to act as an escort to death ? ” 

Busoni turned round, and perceiving the excitement depicted on 
the magistrate’s face, the savage lustre of his eyes, he understood 
that the scene at the assizes had been accomplished ; but beyond 
this he was ignorant. " I came to pray over the body of your 
daughter.” 

And, now, why are you here? ” 

" I come to tell you that you have sufficiently repaid your debt, 
and that from this moment I will pray to God to forgive you as 
I do.” 

"Good Heavens!” exclaimed Villefort, stepping back fear- 
fully, " surely that is not the voice of the Abbe Busoni ! ” 

" No ! ” the abbe threw off his false tonsure, shook his head, 
and his hair, no longer confined, fell in black masses around his 
manly face, 

"It is the face of the Count of Monte-Cristo ! ” exclaimed the 
lawyer, with a haggard expression. 

" You are not exactly right, sir ; you must go farther back.” 

" That voice ! that voice ! — where did I first hear it ? ” 

" You heard it for the first time at Marseilles, twenty -three years 
ago, the day of your marriage with Mdlle. de Saint-Meran. Refer 
to your papers.” 

" You are not Busoni ?— you are not Monte-Cristo ? Oh, 
Heavens ! you are, then, some concealed, implacable, and mortal 
enemy ! I must have wronged you in some way at Marseilles. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 457 

Oh ! woe to me t what have I done to you ? Tell me, then ! 
Speak ! ” 

‘&lt;You condemned me to a horrible, tedious death, — you killed 
my father — you deprived me of liberty, of love, and happiness.' ‘ 

“ Who are you, then ? Who are you ? ” 

••I am the ghost of a wretch you buried in the dungeons of Cas* 
tie If. The form of the Count of Monte-Cristo was given to that 
Spectre when he at length issued from his tomb, enriched with gold 
and diamonds, to reconduct him to you ! ” 

“Ah! I recognize you!” exclaimed the Attorney General, 
•• you are ” 

“ I am Edmond Dantes ? M 

“ You are Edmond Dantes ! M cried Villefort, seizing the count 
fey the wrist, “ then come here ! ” And he dragged Monte-Cristo 
up the stairs ; who, ignorant of what had happened, followed him 
in astonishment, presaging some new catastrophe. “ Hold, Ed- 
mond Dantes! ” he said, pointing to the bodies of his wife and 
child. “See! are you well avenged?” Monte-Cristo became 
pale at this horrible sight ; he felt he had passed beyond the 
bounds of vengeance, and that he could no longer say, “God is 
for and with me.” “My child ! ” cried Villefort, then, uttering 
a burst of laughter, he rushed down the stairs. 

The servant, instead of answering, pointed to the garden. 
Monte-Cristo ran after, and, in the garden, beheld Villefort, en- 
circled by his servants, with a spade in his hand, and digging the 
earth with fury. “ It is not here ! ” he cried. “ Oh, I will find 
it! ” he cried ; “ you may pretend he is not here, but I will find 
him, though I dig for ever ! ” 

Monte-Cristo drew back in horror. “Oh! 99 he said, “he is 
mad ! ” And as though he feared that the walls of the accursed 
house would crumble around him, he rushed into the street, for 
the first time doubting whether he had the right to do as he had 
done. "Oh! enough of this, — enough of this,” he cried, “letme 
save the last.” On entering his house, he met Morrel, who wan- 
dered about like a ghost. “ Prepare yourself p Maximilian,” he 
said, with a smile ; “we leave Paris to-morrow.” 

“ Have you nothing more to do here? ” asked Morrel. 

“ No,” replied Monte-Cristo ; “ God grant I may not have done 
too much already.” 

The next day they indeed left, accompanied alone by Baptistin. 
Hayd&amp;e had taken away Ali, and Bertuccio remained with Noirtiesr. 


CHAPTER LXVI. 

MARSEILLES AGAIN. 

The journey of Maximilian and the Count was performed with 
that marvellous rapidity which the unlimited power of the count 


458 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

ever commanded, towns fled from them like shadows on then* path* 
and trees shaken by the first winds of autumn seemed like giants 
madly rushing on to meet them, and retreating as rapidly when 
once reached. Ere long Marseilles presented herself to view. 
Powerful memories were stirred within them by the sight. They 
stopped on the Cannebiere. A vessel was setting sail for Algiers, 
on board of which the bustle usually attending departure prevailed. 
The passengers and their relations crowded on the deck, friends 
taking a tender, but sorrowful leave of each other, some weeping, 
others noisy in their grief, formed a spectacle, exciting even to 
those who witnessed similar ones daily, but which had not the 
power to disturb the current of thought that had taken possession 
of the mind of Maximilian from the moment he had set foot on 
the broad pavement of the quay. 

41 Here,” said he, leaning heavily on the arm of Monte-Cristo, 
— “ here is the spot where my father stopped, when the Pharaoh 
entered the port ; it was here that the good old man whom you 
saved from death and dishonor, threw himself into my 2 , ms. I 
yet feel his warm tears on my face, and his were not the only tear* 
shed, for many who witnessed our meeting wept also.” Monte- 
Cristo gently smiled and said, — 44 I was there ; ” at the same time 
pointing to the corner of a street. As he spoke, and in the very 
direction he indicated, a groan, expressive of bitter grief, was 
heard ; and a woman was seen waving her hand to a passenger on 
board the vessel about to sail. Monte-Cristo looked at her with 
an emotion that must have been remarked by Morrel had not his 
eyes been fixed on the vessel. 

4 4 Oh ! heavens! ” exclaimed Morrel, 44 1 do not deceive mysel! 
— that young man who is waving his hat, that youth in the uniform 
of a lieutenant, is Albert de Morcerf ! ” 

44 Yes,” said Monte-Cristo, 44 I recognized him.” 44 How so? 

—you were looking the other way.” The count smiled, as he was 
in the habit of doing when he did not want to make any reply, 
and he again turned his looks toward the veiled female, who soon 
disappeared at the corner of the street. Turning to his friend,— 
S4 Dear Maximilian,” said the count, 44 have you nothing to do m 

this land? ” 44 I have to weep over the grave of my father,” 

replied Morrel, in a broken voice. 

44 Well, then, go, — wait for me there, and I will soon join you.” 

44 You leave me, then ? ” 44 Yes ; I also have a pious visit to 

pay.” 

In the Median Alley house given to his old love, Monte-Cristo 
found her seated under an arbor of Virginian creeper, with her 
head bowed, weeping bitterly. She had raised her veil, and with 
her face hidden by her hands, was giving free scope to those 
sighs and tears which had been so long restrained by the presence 
of her son. Monte-Cristo advanced a few paces, which were 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 459 

heard on the gravel. Mercedes raised her head, and uttered a 
cry of terror on beholding a man before her. 

-Madame,” said the count, “it is no longer in my power to re- 
store you to happiness, but I offer you consolation ; will you deign 

to accept it as coming from a friend?” “ I am, indeed, most 

wretched,” replied Mercedes. “ Alone in the world, I had but my 
son, and he has left me!” 

“ He possesses a noble heart, madame,” replied the count, “ and 
he has acted rightly. Leave him to build up the future for you, 
and I venture to say you will confide it to safe hands.” 

“Oh!” replied the wretched woman, mournfully shaking her 
head, “the prosperity of which you speak, and which, from 
the bottom of my heart, I pray God in His mercy to grant him, I 
can never enjoy. The bitter cup of adversity has been drained by 
me to the very dregs, and I feel that the grave is not far distant. 
You have acted kindly, count, in bringing me back to the place 
where I have enjoyed so much bliss. You have spared me, yet 
of all those who have fallen under your vengeance I was the most 
guilty. They were influenced by hatred, by avarice, and by self- 
love ; but I was base, and, for want of courage, acted against my 
judgment. Nay, do not press my hand, Edmond ; you are think- 
ing of some kind expression, I am sure, to console me, but do not 
bestow it on me, for I am no longer worthy of kindness. See ” 
(and she exposed her face completely to view) — “see, misfortune 
has silvered my hair, my eyes have shed so many tears that they 
are encircled by a rim of purple, and my brow is wrinkled. You, 
Edmond, on the contrary, you are still young, handsome digni* 
fled ; it is because you have never doubted the mercy of God, and 
He has supported and strengthened you in all your trials.” 

As Mercedes spoke, the tears chased each other down her wan 
cheeks ; the unhappy woman’s heart was breaking, as memory 
recalled the changeful events of her life. Monte-Cristo, however, 
took her hand and imprinted a kiss on it ; but she herself felt that 
it was with no greater warmth than he would have respectfully 
bestowed one on the hand of some marble statue of a saint. 

“ No, Mercedes,” said Monte-Cristo, “ no ; you judge yourself 
with too much severity. You are a noble-minded woman, and it 
was your grief that disarmed me. Still, I was but an agent, led 
on by an invisible and offended Deity, who chose not to withhold 
the fatal blow that I was destined to hurl. I take that God to wit- 
ness, at whose feet I have prostrated myself daily for the last ten 
years, that I would have sacrificed my life to you, and, with my 
life, the projects that were indissolubly linked with it. But— and l 
say it with some pride, Mercedes— God required me, and I lived. 
Examine the past and the present, and endeavor to dive into 
futurity, and then say whether I am not a Divine instrument. 
The most dreadful misfortunes, the most frightful sufferings, the 
zhandonment of all those who loved me, the persecution of those 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


v ,&gt;tJ 

who did not know me, formed the trials of my youth ; when sud- 
denly, from captivity, solitude, misery, I was restored to light and 
liberty, and became the possessor of a fortune so brilliant, so un- 
bounded, so unheard-of, that I must have been blind not to be 
conscious that God had endowed me with it to work out His own 
great designs. From that time I viewed this fortune as confided 
to me for a particular purpose. Not a thought was given to a life 
which you once, Mercedes, had the power to render blissful ; 
not one hour of peaceful calm was mine, but I felt myself driven 
on like an exterminating angel. From good-natured, confiding, 
and forgiving, I became revengeful, cunning, and wicked, or 
rather, immovable as fate. Then I launched out into the path 
that was opened to me : I overcame every obstacle, and reached 
the goal ; but woe to those who met me in my career ! ” 

44 Enough! ” said Mercedes, 44 enough, Edmond ! ” 44 Before 

I leave you, Mercedes, have you no request to make ? ” said the 
count. 

41 1 desire but one thing in this world, Edmond — the happiness 
of my son.” 

44 But have you no request to make for yourself, Merc6d£s? ” 

“For myself I want nothing. I live, as it were, between two 
graves. The one that of Edmond Dantes, lost to me long, long 
since. He had my love ! That word ill becomes my faded lip 
now, but it is a memory dear to my heart, and one that I would 
not lose for all that the world contains. The other grave is that of 
the man who met his death from the hand of Edmond Dant&amp;s. I 
approve of the deed, but I must pray for the dead.'* 

“ Yes, your son shall be happy, Mercedes,*’ repeated the count. 

“ Then I shall enjoy as much happiness as this world can possh 
bly confer.” 

44 But what are your intentions ? ” 

44 To say that I shal llive here, like the Mercedes of other times, 
gaining my bread by labor, would not be true, r.or would you be- 
lieve me. I have no longer the strength to do anything but to 
spend my days in prayer. However, I shall have no occasion to 
work, for the little sum of money buried by you, and which I 
found in the place you mentioned, will be sufficient to maintain me. 
Rumor will probably be busy respecting me, my occupations, my 
manner of living — that will signify but little.” Monte-Cristo 
dropped his head and shrank from the vehemence of her grief. 

44 Will you not even say you would see me again ? ” he asked. 

44 Nay, we shall meet again!” said she, pointing solemnly to 
heaven, 44 1 say this that you may know that I hope.” 

He departed, sad because he expected never to see her more. 

Burying his head in his cloak, he murmured the name of a 
woman. The victory was complete ; he had overcome his doubts. 
The name he pronounced, in a voice of tenderness, amounting al« 
&lt;nost to love, was Haydee’s. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 461 


On landing, the count turned towards the cemetery, where he 
it it sure of finding Morrel. He, too, ten years ago, had piously 
sought out a tomb, and sought it vainly. He, who returned to 
France with millions, had been unable to find the grave of his 
father, who had perished from hunger. Morrel had, indeed, 
placed a cross over the spot, but it had fallen down, and the grave- 
digger had burnt it, as he did all the old wood in the churchyard. 
The worthy merchant had been more fortunate. Dying in the 
arms of his children, he had been by them laid by the side of his 
wife, who had preceded him in eternity by two years. Two large 
slabs of marble, on which were inscribed their names, were placed 
on either side of a little enclosure, railed in, and shaded by four 
cypress-trees. Morrel was leaning against one of these, mechani- 
cally fixing his eyes on the graves. His grief was so profound, he 
was nearly unconscious. “Maximilian,” said the count, “you 
should not look on the graves, but there ;” and he pointed up- 
wards. 

• • The dead are everywhere,” said Morrel ; “ did you not your- 
self tell me so as we left Paris ? have pity upon me. I am so un- 
happy.” 

“ I have known a man much more unfortunate than you, Mor- 
rel.” 

“ Impossible ! ” 

" Alas ! ” said Monte-Cristo, “ it is the infirmity of our nature 
always to believe ourselves much more unhappy than those who 
groan by our sides ! ” 

“ What can be more wretched than the man who has lost all he 
loved and desired in the world ? ” 

“Listen, Morrel, and pay attention to what I am about to tell 
you, I knew a man who like you had fixed all his hopes of happi- 
ness upon a woman. He was young, he had an old father whom 
he loved, a betrothed bride whom he adored. He was about to 
marry her, when one of those caprices of fate, — which would 
almost make us doubt the goodness of Providence, if that Provi- 
dence did not afterwards reveal itself by proving that all is but a 
means of conducting to an end, — one of those caprices deprived 
him of his mistress, of the future of which he had dreamed (for in 
his blindness he forgot he could only read the present), and 
plunged him into a dungeo*.” 

“ Ah ! ” said Morrel, “ one quits a dungeon in a week, a month, 
or a year.” 

“ He remained there fourteen years, Morrel,” said the count, 
placing his hand on the young man’s shoulder. Maximilian shud- 
dered. 

'* During that time he had many moments of despair. He also, 
Morrel, like you, considered himself the unhappiest of men.” 

“ Well ? ” asked Morrel. “ Well ! at the height of his despair 

God assisted him through human means. At first, perhaps, he 


462 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


did not recognize the infinite mercy of the Lord, but at last he 
took patience and waited. One day he miraculously left the 
prison, transformed, rich, powerful. His first cry was for his 
father ; but that father was dead.” 

“ My father, too, is dead,” said Morrel. 

“ Yes ; but your father died in your arms, happy, respected, 
rich, and full of years ; his father died poor, despairing, almost 
doubtful of Providence ; and when his son sought his grave ten 
years afterwards, his tomb had disappeared, and no one could say, 
‘There sleeps the father you so well loved/ ” 

“ Oh ! ” exclaimed Morrel. 

“ He was, therefore, a more unhappy son than you, Morrel, for 
he could not even find his father’s grave ! ” 

“ But then he had the woman he loved still remaining? M 

“ You are deceived, Morrel, that woman ” 

“ She was dead ? ” 

“ Worse than that: she was faithless, and had married one of 
the persecutors of her betrothed. You see, then, Morrel, that he 
r'. s a more unhappy lover than you.” 

‘And has he found consolation ? ” 

“ He has found calmness, at least.” 

“ And does he ever expect to be happy ?* 

“ He hopes so, Maximilian.” The young man’s head fell on his 
breast. 

“You have my promise,” he said, after a minute’s pause, ex- 
tending his hand to Monte-Cristo. “ Only remember ” 

“ On the 5th of October, Morrel, I shall expect you at the 
island of Monte-Cristo. On the 4th a yacht will wait for you in 
the port of Bastia, called the Eurus . You will give your name to 
the captain, who will bring you to me. It is understood — is it 
not ? ” 

“ But, count, do you remember that the 5th of October — 

“ Child ! ” replied the count, “ not to know the value of a man’s 
word ! I have told you twenty times that if you wish to die on 

that day, I will assist you. Morrel, farewell ! ” “ Do you leave 

me ? ” 

Morrel accompanied the count to the harbor. The white steam 
was ascending like a plume of feathers from the black chimney. 
The steamer soon disappeared, and in an hour afterward, was 
scarcely distinguishable in the horizon amid the fog. 


CHAPTER LXVII. 

PEPPINO. 

* At the same time that the steamer disappeared behind Cape 
Morgiou, a man, traveling post on the road from Florence to 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


4$3 


Rome, had just passed the little town of Aquapendente. He 
was traveling fast enough to make a great deal of ground without 
becoming altogether suspicious. This man, dressed in an over- 
coat, a little the worse for the journey, but which exhibited the 
riband of the Legion d’Honneur still fresh and brilliant, a decor- 
ation which also ornamented the under coat, might be recognized, 
not only by these signs, but also from the accent with which he 
spoke to the postilion, to be a Frenchman. 

The carriage entered by the Porto del Popolo, turned to the 
left, and stopped at the Hotel d’Espagne. Pastrini, our old ac- 
quaintance, received the traveler at the door, hat in hand. The 
traveler alighted, ordered a good dinner, and inquired the address 
of the house of Thomson and French, which was immediately 
given to him, as it was one of the most celebrated in Rome. 

The Frenchman came back to the hotel radiant, and went to 
sleep, with his wallet under his pillow. 

The next morning Danglars, for it was the banker, awoke late, 
though he went to bed so early ; he had not slept well for five or 
six nights, even if he had slept at all. He breakfasted heartily ; and 
caring little, as he said, for the beauties of the Eternal City, 
ordered post-horses at noon. But Danglars had not reckoned 
upon the formalities of the police and the idleness of the posting- 
master. The horses only arrived at two o’clock, and the cicerone 
did not bring the passport till three. 

“ Which road? ” asked the postilion in Italian. “The Ancona 
road,” replied the baron. Pastrini interpreted the question and 
answer, and the horses galloped off. Danglars intended traveling 
to Venice, where he would receive one part of his fortune, and 
then proceeding to Vienna, where he would find the rest, he 
meant to take up his residence in the latter town, which he had 
Oeen told was a city of pleasure. 

He had scarcely advanced three leagues out of Rome when 
daylight began to disappear. Danglars had not intended starting 
so late, or he would have remained ; he put his head out and 
asked the postilion how long it would be before they reached the 
next town. “ Non capisco," was the reply. Danglars bent his 
head, which he meant to imply, “Very well.” The carriage 
again moved on. “I will stop at the first posting-house,” said 
Danglars to himself. 

He still felt the same self-satisfaction which he had experienced 
the previous evening, and which had procured him so good a 
night’s rest. He was luxuriously stretched in a good English 
coach, with double springs ; he was drawn by four good horses, 
at full gallop ; he knew the relay to be at a distance of seven 
leagues. What subject of meditation could present itself to the 
banker, so fortunately become bankrupt ? 

Danglars thought for ten minutes upon his wife in Paris ; an- 
other ten minutes upon his daughter traveling about with Mdllt« 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


d’Armilly ; the same period was given to his creditors, and the 
manner in which he intended spending their money ; and then, 
having no subject left for contemplation, he shut his eyes, and 
fell asleep. 

The carriage stopped. Danglars fancied they had reached the 
long-desired point ; he opened his eyes, looked through the win- 
dow, expecting to find himself in the midst of some town, or at 
least village ; but he saw nothing but a kind or ruin, where three 
or four men went and came like shadows. Danglars waited for a 
moment, expecting the postilion to come and demand payment, 
having finished his stage. He intended taking advantage of the 
opportunity to make fresh inquiries of the new conductor ; but the 
lorses were unharnessed, and others put in their places, without 
any one claiming money from the traveler. Danglars, astonished, 
opened the door ; but a strong hand pushed him back, and the 
carriage rolled on. The baron was completely roused. " Eh ! ” 
he said to the positilion, " eh, tnio caro f " 

This was another little piece of Italian the baron had learnt from 
hearing his daughter sing Italian duets with Cavalcanti. But mid 
caro replied not. Danglars then opened the window. 

" Come, my friend,” he said, thrusting his hand through the 
opening, 44 where are we going?” 41 Dentro la testa!" an- 

swered a solemn and imperious voice, accompanied by a menacing 
gesture. Danglars thought dentro la testa meant “ Put in your 
head! ” Danglars observed a man in a cloak galloping at the 
right hand of the carriage. 

'•Some patrol! ” he exclaimed. "Can I have been signalled 
by the French telegraphs to the pontifical authorities? ” He re- 
solved to end his anxiety. "Where are you leading me?” he 
asked. " Dentro la testa" replied the same Voice, with the same 
menacing accent. 

Danglars turned to the left ; another man on horseback was gal- 
loping on that side. " Decidedly !” said Danglars, with the 
perspiration on his forehead, " I am arrested.” And he threw 
himself back not this time to sleep, but to think. Directly after* 
wards the moon rose. He then saw a dark mass, against which 
it seemed the carriage must dash ; but it turned round, leaving 
behind it the mass, which was no other than one of the ramparts 
encircling Rome. 

" Oh ! oh ! ” cried Danglars, " we are not returning to Rome ; 
then it is not justice which is pursuing me ! Gracious heavens ! 
another idea presents itself ; what if they should be ” 

His hair stood on end. He remembered those interesting 
stories, so little believed in Paris, respecting Roman bandits ; he 
remembered the adventures that Morcerf had related when it was 
intended he should marry Mdlle. Eugenie. " They are robbers, 
perhaps ! ” he muttered. Just then the carriage rolled on some- 
thing harder than the gravelled road. Danglers hazarded a look 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 465 

on both sides of the road, and perceived monuments of a singula* 
form ; and his mind now recalled all the details Morc.erf had re* 
lated and comparing them with his own situation, he felt sure he 
must he on the Appian Way. On the left, in a sort of valley, he 
perceived a circular excavation. It was Caracalla’s circle. On a 
word from the man who rode at the side of the carriage, it stopped. 
At the same time the door was opened. 41 Scendi! ” exclaimed a 
commanding voice. Danglars instantly descended ; though he 
did not yet speak Italian, he understood it very well. More 
dead than alive, he looked around him. Four men surrounded 
him, besides the postilion. 

Pushing Danglars whenever he happened to stop, they arrived 
by a gentle declivity at the centre of a cross-road of sinister ap- 
pearance. Indeed, the walls, hollowed out in sepulchres, placed 
one above the other, seemed, in contrast with the white stones, 
to open their large dark eyes, like those which we see on the faces 
of the dead. A sentinel slapped his rifle-butt with his left hand. 
" Who goes there ? ” he cried. 

“ Peppino ! but where is the captain ? ” 

“ There ! ” said the sentinel, poining over his shoulder to a sort 
of large hall, hollowed out of the rock, the lights from which 
shone into the passage through the large arched openings. Fine 
spoil! captain, fine spoil!” said Peppino, in Italian, and taking 
Danglars by the collar of his coat, he dragged him to an opening 
resembling a door, through which they entered the hall, of which 
the captain appeared to have made his dwelling-place. 

44 Is this the man?” asked the captain, who was attentively 
reading Plutarch’s 44 Life of Alexander.” 

44 Himself, captain — himself.” 

44 Very well, show him to me.” At this rather impertinent 
order, Peppino raised his torch to Danglars’ face, who hastily 
withdrew, that he might not have his eyelashes burnt. His 
agitated features presented the appearance of pale and hideous 
terror. 44 The man is tired,” said the captain, 44 conduct him to 
his bed.” 

44 Oh ! ” murmured Danglars, 44 that bed is probably one of the 
coffins hollowed in the wall, and the sleep I shall enjoy will be 
death from one of the poniards I see glistening in the shade.” 

From the depths of the hall were now seen to rise from their 
beds of dried leaves or cow hide the companions of the man who 
had been found by Albert de Morcerf reading 44 Caesar’s Com- 
mentaries,” and by Danglars studying the 44 Life of Alexander.” 
The banker uttered a groan and followed his guide ; he neither 
supplicated nor exclaimed. He no longer possessed strength, 
will, power, or feeling ; he followed where they led him. At 
length, he found himself at the foot of a staircase, and he mechani- 
cally lifted his foot five or six times. Then a low door was 
opened before him, and bending his head to avoid striking his 

30 


466 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


forehead, he entered a small room cut out of the rock. The cell was 
clean, though naked ; and dry, though situated at a distance 
under the earth. Danglars, on beholding it, brightened, fancy- 
ing it a type of safety. “Oh, God be praised ! ” he said ; “ it is 
a rebel bed ! " 

“ Ecco !" said the guide, and pushing Danglars into the cell, 
he closed the door upon him. 

A bolt grated ; Danglars was a prisoner ; besides, had there 
been no bolt, it would have been impossible for him to pass 
through the midst of the garrison who held the catacombs of St. 
Sebastian, encamped round a master whom our readers must 
have recognized as the famous Luigi Vampa. Danglars, too, 
had recognized the bandit, whose ^vistence he would not believe 
when Albert de Morcerf mentioned him in Paris ; and not only 
did he recognize him, but also the cell in which Albert had been 
confined, and which was probably kept for the accommodation of 
strangers. These recollections were dwelt upon with some pleas- 
ure by Danglars, and restored him to some degree of tranquillity. 
Since the bandits had not despatched him at once, he felt that 
they would not kill him at all. They had arrested him for the 
purpose of robbery, and as he had only a few louis about him, he 
doubted not he would be ransomed. He remembered that Mor- 
cerf had been taxed at 4,000 crowns; and as he considered him- 
self of much greater importance than Morcerf, he fixed his own 
price at 8,000 crowns : 8,000 crowns amounted to 48,000 francs : 
he would then have about 5,050,000 francs. With this sum he 
could manage to keep out of difficulties. Therefore, tolerably se- 
cure in being able to extricate himself from his position, provided 
he were not rated at the unreasonable sum of 5,050,000 francs, he 
stretched himself on his bed, and, after turning round two or 
three times, fell asleep with the tranquillity of the hero whose life 
Luigi Vampa was studying* 


CHAPTER LXVIII. 

LUIGI VAMPA* S BILL OF FARE. 

We awake from every sleep except the one dreaded by Dang« 
Jars. He awoke. In such a situation a single moment suffices to 
change the strongest doubt into certainty. “ Yes, yes,* 9 he mur- 
mured, “ I am in the hands of the brigands of whom Albert de 
Morcerf spoke." His first idea was to breathe, that he might know 
whether he was wounded. He borrowed this from " Don 
Quixote," the only book he had ever read, but which he still 
slightly remembered. 

•• No." he cried. M they have not wounded, but perhaps they 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRTS TO. 467 

have robbed me!” and he thrust his hands into his pockets. They 
were untouched ; the hundred louis he had reserved for his journey 
from Rome to Venice were in his trousers pocket, and in that of 
his great-coat he found the little note-case containing his letter of 
credit for 5,050,000 francs. “ Singular bandits ! ” he exclaimed ; 
“ they have left me my purse and pocket-book. As I was say- 
ing last night, they intend me to be ransomed. Hollo ! here is 
my watch! Let me see what time it is.” Danglars’ repeater, 
which he had carefully wound up on the previous night, struck 
half-past five. Without this, Danglars- would have been quite 
ignorant of the time, for daylight did not reach his cell. Should 
he demand an explantion from the bandits, or should he wait 
patiently for them to propose it. The last alternative seemed the 
most prudent, so he waited until twelve o’clock. During all this 
time a sentinel, relieved at eight o’clock, had been watching his 
door. Danglars suddenly felt a strong inclination to see the per- 
son who kept watch over him. He had remarked that a few 
rays, not of daylight but from a lamp, penetrated through the 
ill-joined planks of the door ; he approached it just as the brig- 
and was refreshing himself with a mouthful of brandy, which, 
owing to the leathern bottle containing it, sent forth an odor 
which was extremely unpleasant to Danglars. “ Faugh! ” he 
exclaimed, retreating to the extreme corner of his cell. 

At twelve, this man was replaced by another, and Danglars, 
wishing to catch sight of his new guardian, approached the door' 
again. He was an athletic, gigantic bandit, with large eyes, thick 
lips, and a flat noise ; his red hair fell in disheveled masses like 
snakes around his shoulders. " Ah ! ah ! ” cried Danglars, “ this 
fellow is more like an ogre than anything else ; however, I am rather 
too old and tough tp be very good eating ! *’ We see that 
Danglars was quite collected enough to jest ; at the same time, as 
though to disprove the ogreish propensities, the man took some 
black bread, cheese, and onions from his wallet, which he began 
devouring voraciously. “ May I be hanged,” said Danglars, 
glancing at the bandit’s dinner through the crevices of the door, 
— “may I be hanged if I can understand how people can eat 
such filth! ” and he withdrew to seat himself upon his goat- 
skin, which recalled to him the smell of the brandy. 

But the secrets of nature are incomprehensible, and there are 
certain invitations contained in even the coarsest food which ap- 
peal very irresistibly to a fasting stomach. Danglars felt his 
own not to be very well supplied just then ; and gradually the 
man appeared less ugly, the bread less black, and the cheese 
more fresh, while those dreadful vulgar onions recalled to his mind 
sauces and side-dishes, which his cook prepared in a very superior 
manner whenever he said, “ M. Deniseau, let me have a nice lit- 
tle fricassee to-day.” He rose and knocked at the door; the 
bandit raised his head, Danglars knew that he was heard, so 


468 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


he redoubled his blows. “Checosa?" asked the bandite 
11 Come, come,” said Danglars, tapping his fingers against the door, 

“ I think it is quite time to think of giving me something to eat!” 
But whether he did not understand him, or whether he had re- 
ceived no orders respecting the nourishment of Danglars, the giant, 
without answering, recommenced his dinner. Danglars felt his 
pride hurt, and not wishing to commit himself with the brute* 
threw himself down again on his goatskin, and did not breathe 
another word. 

Four hours passed by, the giant was replaced by another bandit 
Danglars, who began to experience gnawings at the stomach, rose 
softly, again applied his eye to the crack of the door, and rec- 
ognized the intelligent countenance of his guide. It was, in- 
deed, Peppino who was preparing to mount guard as comfortably 
as possible by seating himself opposite to the door, and placing 
between his legs and an earthen pan, containing chick-pease 
stewed with bacon. Near the pan he also placed a pretty little 
basket of grapes and a bottle of Orvieto. Peppino was decidedly 
an epicure. While witnessing these preparations Danglars* 
mouth watered. “ Come,” he said to himself, “let me me try if 
he will be more tractable than the other! ” and he tapped gently 
at the door. “Coming!” exclaimed Peppino, who, from fre- 
quenting the house of Pastrini, understood F rench perfectly. 

Danglars immediately recognized him as the man who had 
called out in such a furious manner, “ Put in your head ! ” But 
this was not the time for recrimination, so he assumed his most 
agreeable manner and said with a gracious smile, — “Excuse 
me, sir, but are they not going to give me any dinner? ” 

“ Does your excellency happen to be hungry?” 

“ Happen to be hungry ! that’s excellent, when I have not 
eaten for twenty-four hours!” muttered Danglars. Then he 

added aloud, “ Yes, sir, I am hungry — very hungry ! ” -“What 

would your excellency like? ” and Peppino placed his pan on the 
ground, so that the steam rose directly under the nostrils of Dan* 
glars. — “ Give your orders! ” 

“ Have you kitchens here?” 

“ Kitchens?— of course! complete ones,” 

“ And cooks ? ” 

“ Excellent ! ” 

“ Well ! a fowl, fish, game, it signifies little, so that I eat.” 

“As your excellency pleases! You mentioned a fowl, I* 
think ? ’ * 

“Yes, a fowl.” Peppino, turning round, shouted, “A fowl for 
his excellency ! ” His voice yet echoed in the archway when a 
young man, handsome, graceful, and half-naked, appeared, bear- 
ing a fowl in a silver dish on his head, without the assistance of 
his hands. “ I could almost believe myself at a Paris restaurant ! ” 
murmured Danglars, 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 


4*9 

•« Here, yom excellency ! ” said Peppino, taking the fowl from 
the young bandit and placing it on the worm-eaten table, which, 
with a stool and the goatskin bed, formed the entire furniture of 
the cell. Danglars asked for a km \ and fork. “ Here, excel- 
lency, said Peppino, offering him a little blunt knife and a box* 
wood fork. Danglars took the knife in one hand and the fork in 
the other, and was about to cut up the fowl. “ Pardon me, excel- 
xency,” said Peppino, placing his hand on the banker’s shoulder f 
“ people pay here before they eat. They might not be satisfied, 

and ” ^ 

“Ah! ah!” thought Danglars, “this is no longer like Paris, 
without reckoning that I shall probably be fleeced ! Never mind, 
I will carry it off well ! I have always heard how cheap poultry 
is in Italy ; I should think a fowl is worth about twelve sous at 

Rome. There,” he said, throwing a louis down. Peppino 

picked up the louis, and Danglars again prepared to carve the 
fowl. “ Stay a moment, your excellency,” said Peppino, rising; 

“ you still owe me something.” “ I said they would fleece me, ' 

thought Danglars ; but resolving to resist the extortion, he said, 
u Come, how much do I owe you for this fowl ? ” 

“ Your excellency has given me a louis on account.” 

“A louis on account for a fowl! ” “ Certainly ; and your 

excellency now owes me 4,990 louis!” Danglars opened his 
enormous eyes on hearing this gigantic joke. “ Come, come, this 
is very droll — very amusing — I allow ; out, as I am very hunrgry. 

pray allow me to eat. Stay, here is another louis for you.” 

“Then, that will make only 4,998 louis,” said Peppino, with the 
same indifference. “ I shall get them all in time.” 

“ Oh ! as for that,” said Danglafs, angry in his perseverance in 
the jest, — “ as for that you will never succeed. Go to the devil! 
You do not know with whom you have to deal!” Peppino 
made a sign, and the youth hastily removed the fowl. Danglars 
threw himself upon his goatskin, and Peppino, re-closing the door, 
again began eating his peas and bacon. Though Danglars could 
not see Peppino, the noise of his teeth allowed no doubt as to his 
occupation. He was certainly eating, and noisily too, like an ill- 
bred man. “Brute!” said Danglars. Peppino pretended not to 
hear him, and, without even turning his head, continued to eat 
slowly. Danglars’ stomach felt so empty, it seemed as though it 
would be impossible ever to fill it again ; still he had patience for 
another half-hour, which appeared to him like a century. He 
again rose and went to the door. “ Come, sir, do not keep me 
starving here any long&lt; but tell me what they want.” — — ' * Nay, 
your excellency, it is you should tell us what you want. Give 
your orders, and we will execute them.” 

“Then open the door directly.” Peppino obeyed. “I want 
something to eat ! To eat — do you hear? ” 

“ Are you hungry ? ” 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 


4?o 

“Come, you understand me.” 

•* What would your excellency like to eat ? ” 

“ A piece of dry bread, since the fowls are beyond all price ifc 

this accursed place.” “Bread! very well. Holloa, there! 

some bread! ” he exclaimed. The youth brought a small loaf. 
“ How much ? ” asked Danglars. 

“Four thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight louis,” said 
Peppino ; “ you have paid two louis in advance.” 

“ What ! 100,000 francs for a loaf? ’ ' 

“ One hundred thousand francs ! ” repeated Peppino. 

“ But you only asked 100,000 francs for a fowl ! ” 

“ We have a fixed price for all our meats. It signifies nothing 
whether you eat much or little — whether you have ten dishes or 
one — it is always the same price.” 

“ What! still keeping up this silly jest? My dear fellow, it is 
perfectly ridiculous — stupid ! You had better tell me at once that 
you intend starving me to death.” 

“Oh dear, no, your excellency, unless you intend to commit 
suicide. Pay and eat.” 

“ And what am I to pay with, brute?” said Danglars, enraged. 
“ Do you suppose I carry 100,000 francs in my pocket? ” 

“Your excellency has 5,050,000 francs in your pocket ; that 
will be fifty fowls at 100,000 francs a-piece, and half a fowl for 
the 50,000.” 

Danglars shuddered. The bandage fell from his eyes, and he 
Understood the joke, which he did not think quite so dull as lie 
had done just before. “ Come,” he said, “if I pay the 100,000 
francs, wiR you be satisfied, and allow me to eat my ease ? ” 
“Certainly,” said Peppino, 

“ But how can I pay them ? ” 

“ Oh, nothing easier : you have an account opened with Messrs. 
Thomson and French, Viadei Banchi, Rome ; give me a bill for 
4,998 louis on these gentlemen, and our banker shall take it.” 
Danglars thought it as well to comply with a good grace ; so he 
took the pen, ink, and paper Peppino offered him, wrote the bill, 
and signed it. “ Here,” he said, “ here is a bill at sight.” 

“And here is your fowl.” Danglars sighed while he carved 
the fowl; it appeared very thin for the price it had cost. As for 
Peppino, he read the paper attentively, put it into his pocket, and 
continued munching his peas. 

The next day Danglars was again hungry ; certainly the air of 
that dungeon was very appetizing. The prisoner expected that he 
would be at no expense that day, for, like an economical man, he 
had concealed half of his fowl and a piece of the bread in the 
corner of his cell. But he had no sooner eaten than he felt thirsty ; 
he had forgotten that. He struggled against his thirst till his 
tongue clave to the roof of his mouth ; then, no longer able to 
resist, he called out. The sentinel opened the door ; it was a nfcw 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


47 i 


face. He thought it would be better to transact business with his 
old acquaintance, so he sent for Peppino. 44 Here I am, your 
excellency," said Peppino, with an eagerness which Danglars 
thought favorable to him. 44 What do you want? " 

44 Something to drink." 

“Your excellency knows that wine is beyond all price outside 
Rome." 

‘‘Then give me water," cried Danglars, endeavoring to parry 
the blow. 

44 Oh, water is even more scarce than wine, your excellency, 
there has been a drought." 

44 Come," thought Danglars, 44 we are going to repeat the old 
story." And, while he smiled as he attempted to regard the affair 
as a joke, he felt his temples moist with perspiration. 

“Come, my friend," said Danglars, seeing he made no im* 
pression on Peppino, “ you will not refuse me a glass of wine ? " 

“ I have already told you that we do not sell retail." 

“ Well, then, let, me have a bottle of the least expensive." 

“ They are all the same price.” 

44 And what is that ? ” 

“Twenty-five thousand francs per bottle." 

44 Tell me," cried Danglars, in a voice of extreme bitterness—. 
* 4 tell me that you wish to despoil me of all ; it will be sooner over 
than devouring me piecemeal." 

44 It is possible such may be the master’s intention." 

44 The master ! — who is he ? " 


“The person to whom you were conducted yesterday." 

“Let me see him." “Certainly." And the next monutnt 

Luigi Vampa appeared before Danglars. 

“ You sent for me ? " he said to the prisoner. 

44 Are you, sir, the chief of the people who brought me her* ? " 
44 Yes, your excellency. What then ? " 

44 How much do you require for my ransom ? ” 44 Merel y the 

5,000,000 you have about you." Danglars felt a dreadful spasm 
dart through his heart. 44 But this it all I have left in the wo' Id," 
said he, 44 out of an immense fortune. If you deprive me of that, 
take away my life also." 

44 We are forbidden to snea your blood." 

44 And by whom are you forbidden ? " 

44 By him we obey.” 

44 You do, then, obey some one ?" 

44 Yes, a chief." 


44 1 thought you said you were the chief?" 

44 So I am of these men ; but there is another over me." 
44 And did your superior tell you to treat me thus ?" 
“Yes." 


44 But my purse will be exhausted.” 
•• Probably," % 


m 


THE COUNT OF M 0 N 1 E CR 1 NTQ. 


••Comb/'' said Danglars, " wiil you take a million? M 

“ No.” 

“Two millions? — three? — four? Come, four? I will givt 
them to you on condition that you let me go.** 

14 Why do you offer me 4,000,000 for what is worth 5,000,000? 
This is a kind of usury, banker, I do not understand.” 

“ Take all, then — take all, 1 tell you, and kill me!” 

“ Come, come, calm yourself. You will heat your blood, and 
that would produce an appetite it would require a million a day to 
satisfy. Be more economical.” 

“ But when I have no more money left to pay you ? ** asked the 
infuriated Danglars. 

“ Then you must suffer hunger.” 

“ Suffer hunger?” said Danglars, becoming pale. 

M Most likely.” replied Vampa, coolly. 

11 But you say you do not wish to kill me ? * 

“No.” 

“ And yet you will let me perish with hunger? 

“ Ah, that is a different thing.” 

" Well, then, wretches ! ” cried Danglars, “ I will defy your in*, 
famous calculations ! — I would rather die at once ! You may tor- 
ture, torment, kill me, but you shall not have my signature 
again ! * * 

“As your excellency pleases,” said Vampa, as he left the cell. 
Danglars, raving, threw himself on the goatskin. 

His resolution not to sign lasted two days, after which he offered 
a million for some food. They sent him a magnificent supper, and 
took his million. 

From this time the prisoner resolved to suffer no longer, but to 
yield. At the end of twelve days, after having made a splendid 
dinner, he reckoned his accounts, and found he had only 50,000 
francs ’eft. Then a strange reaction took place : he who had just 
abandoned 5,000,000 endeavored to save the 50,0*0 francs he had 
left ; and, sooner than give them up, he resolved to enter again 
upon his life of privation — he yielded to rays of hope resembling 
madness. He, who for so long a time had forgotten God, began 
to think that miracles were possible : that the accursed cave might 
be discovered by the officers of the Papal States, who would re- 
lease him ; that then he would have 50,000 remaining, which 
would be sufficient to save him from starvation ; and, finally, he 
prayed that this sum might be preserved to him, and as he prayed 
he wept. Three days passed thus, during which his prayers were 
frequent, if not heartfelt. Sometimes he was delirious, and fancied 
he saw old Dantes stretched on a pallet ; he, also was dying o* 
hunger. 

On the fourth, he was no longer a man, but a living corpse. 
He had picked up every crumb that had been left from his forme? 
meals, and was beginning to eat the matting which covered tk? 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


473 


hoor of his cell. Then he entreated Peppino, as he would a 
guardian angel, to give him food ; he offered him 1,000 francs for 
a mouthful of bread. But Peppino did not answer. On the fifth 
day he dragged himself to the door of the cell. 

“ Are you not a Christian ? ” he said, falling on his knees. “ Do 
you wish to assassinate a man who, In the eyes of Heaven, is a 
brother? Oh, my former friends, my former friends ! ” he mur- 
mured, and fell with his face to the ground. Then rising with a 
species of despair, he exclaimed. “ The chief ! the chief! ” 

“ Here I am/' said Vampa, instantly appearing ; 11 what do 
you want?” 

“Take my last gold,” muttered Danglars, holding out his 
pocket-book, “ and let me live here ; I ask no more for liberty — I 
-only ask to live ! ’ ’ 

“ Then you suffer a great deal ? ” “ Oh, yes, yes, cruelly ! " 

“ Still, there have been men who suffered more than you.” 

“ I do not think so.” 

“ Yes ; those who have died of hunger.” 

Danglars thought of the old man whom, in his hours of delirium, 
he had seen groaning on his bed. He struck his forehead on the 
ground and groaned. “Yes,” he said, “there have been some 
who have suffered more than I have, but then they must have been 
martyrs at least,” 

“ Do you repent? " asked a deep, solemn voice, which caused 
Danglars’ hair to stand on end. His feeble eyes endeavored to 
distinguish objects, and behind the bandit he saw a man in a 
cloak, half lost in the shadow of a stone column. 

“ Of what must I repent? ” stammered Danglars. 

“ Of the evil you have done,” said the voice. 

“Oh, yes! oh, yes! I do indeed repent.” And he struck his 
breast with his emaciated fist. 

“ Then I forgive you,” said the man, dropping his cloak, and 
advancing to the light. 

“ The Count of Monte-Cristo ! ” said Danglars, more pale from 
terror than he had been just before from hunger and misery. 

“You are mistaken — I am not the Count of Monte-Cristo ! ” 

“ Then who are you ? ” 

“ I am he whom .you sold and dishonored — I am he whose be- 
trothed you prostituted — he upon whom you trampled that you might 
raise yourself to fortune — he whose father you condemned to die of 
hunger — he whom you also condemned to starvation, and who yet 
forgives you, because he hopes to be forgiven — I am Edmond 
Dantes ! ” Danglars uttered a scream, and fell prostrate. “ Rise,” 
said the count, “ your life is safe-; the same good fortune has not 
happened to your accomplices — one is mad, the other dead. Keep 
the 50,000 francs you have left — I give them to you. The 5,000,- 
000 you robbed from the hospitals has been restored to them by an 
unknown hand. And now eat and drink ; I will entertain vou to* 


474 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 


night. Vampa, when this man is satisfied, let him be free/" 
Danglars remained prostrate while the count withdrew ; when he 
raised his head he saw nothing more than a kind of shadow dis- 
appearing in the passage, before which the bandits bowed. Ac- 
cording to the count’s directions, Danglars was waited on by 
Vampa, who brought him the best wine and fruits ; then, having 
conducted him to the road, and pointed to his post-chaise, he left 
him leaning against a tree. He remained there all night, not 
knowing where he was. When daylight dawned, he saw that he 
was near a stream ; he was thirsty, and dragged himself toward 
it. As he stooped down to drink, he perceived that his hair had 
become quite white. 


CHAPTER LXIX. 

THE FIFTH OF OCTOBER. 

It was about six o’clock in the evening ; an opal-colored light, 
through which an autumnal sun shed its golden rays, descended 
on the blue sea. 

A light yacht, chaste and elegant in its form, was gliding amidst 
the first dews of night over the immense lake. Standing on the 
prow was a tall man, of a dark complexion, who saw with dilating 
eyes that they were approaching a dark mass of land in the shape 
of a cone, rising from the midst of the waves. •' Is that Monte- 
Cristo ? ’ ’ asked the traveler, to whose orders the yacht was for the 
time submitted, in a melancholy voice. 

“Yes, your excellency/’ said the captain, " we have reached 
it ! ” 

Ten minutes afterwards, the sails were brailed, and they cast 
anchor about one hundred paces from the little harbor. The 
canoe was already in the sea, loaded with four rowers and the 
pilot. 

After they landed, the young man looked round for some one to 
show him his road, for it was quite dark. Just as he turned, a hand 
rested on his shoulder, and a voice, which made him shudder, ex- 
claimed, — " Good evening, Maximilian ! you are punctual, thank 
you! ” 

“Ah ! is it you, count?” said the young man, in an almost joy- 
ful accent, pressing Monte-Cristo’s hand with both his own. 

Morrel looked at the count with surprise. “ Count,” he said, 
41 you are not the same here as in Paris.” The count’s brow be- 
came clouded. " You are right to recall me to myself, Maximi- 
lian,” he said ; “ I was delighted to see you again, and forgot for 
the moment that all happiness is fleeting. You cannot take me for 
a commonplace man. a mere rattle, emitting: a vasrue and sense* 


mm fry 

: " illHVf f,’ K I f V ff f ft I f I ' fl 

THE COUNT OF MONTE CR/STO. 475 

fess noise. When I ask you if you are consoled, I speak to you as 
a man for whom the human heart has no secrets. Have you still 
that devouring thirst, which can only be appeased in the grave ? ” 

“ Yes : I did wait ; — yes ; I did hope, count, but, count, I shall 
sleep calmly, deliciously in the arms of death!” Morrel pro- 
nounced these words with an energy which made the count shud- 
der. “My friend,” continued Morrel, “you named the fifth ot 
October as the term of the delay you asked, — to-day is the fifth of 
October,” he took out his watch ; “it is now nine o’clock, — I have 
yet three hours to live.” 

“ Be it so ? ” said the count, “ come.” 

Morrel mechanically followed the count, and they had entered 
the grotto before he perceived it. He felt a carpet under his feet, 
a door opened, perfumes surrounded him, and a brilliant light 
dazzled his eyes. Morrel hesitated to advance, he dreaded the 
enervating effect of all that he saw. Monte-Cristo drew him in 
gently. “ Why should we not spend the last three hours remain- 
ing to us of life, like those ancient Romans, who, when condemned 
by Nero, their emperor and heir, sat down at a table covered with 
flowers, and gently glided into death, through- the perfume of 
heliotropes and roses?” 

“ Now I understand,” he said, “ why you had me brought here 
to this desolate spot, in the midst of the ocean, to this subterranean 
palace ; it was because you loved me, was it not, count? It was 
because you loved me well enough to give me one of those sweet 
means of death of which we were speaking ; a death without agony, 
a death which allows me to fade away while pronouncing Valen- 
tine’s name and pressing your hand.’’ 

“ Yes ; you have guessed rightly, Morrel,” said the count, “ that 
is what I intended.” 

“ It is well,” said Monte-Cristo, whose countenance brightened 
at these words, “you wish it; you are inflexible; yes, as you 
said, you are indeed wretched, and a miracle alone can cure you ; 
sit down, Morrel, and wait.” 

Morrel obeyed ; the count rose, and unlocking a closet with a 
key suspended from his gold chain, took from it a silver casket. 
He placed the casket on the table ; then opening it, took out a 
little golden box, the top of which flew open when touched by a 
secret spring. This box contained an unctuous substance partly 
solid, of which it was impossible to discover the color, owing te 
the reflection of the polished gold, sapphires, rubies, emeralds, 
which ornamented the box. It was a mixed mass of blue, red, 
and gold. The count took out a small quantity of this with a gilt 
spoon, and offered it to Morrel, fixing a long steadfast glance 
upon him. It was then observable that the substance was 
greenish. 

“ This is what you asked for*” he said, “ and what I promised 
to give you.” 


\j6 THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. 

“I thank you from the depths of my heart,” said the young 
man, taking the spoon from the hands of Monte-Cristo. The 
count took another spoon, and again dipped it into the golden 
box. 

“ Stay ! ” said the young man. 44 You who love, and are be- 
loved ; you, who have faith and hope, — oh ! do not follow my 
example ; in your case it would be a crime. Adieu, my noble 
and generous friend, adieu ; I will go and tell Valentine what you 
have done for me.” And slowly, though without any hesitation, 
only waiting to press the count’s hand fervently, he swallowed the 
mysterious substance offered by Monte-Cristo. Then they were 
both silent. An overpowering sadness took possession of the 
young man ; his hands relaxed their hold ; the objects in the 
r6om gradually lost their form and color ; and his disturbed vision 
seemed to perceive doors and curtains open in the wall. 

41 Friend,” he cried, 44 1 feel that I am dying ; thanks!” He 
made a last effort to extend his hand, but it fell powerless beside 
him. Then it appeared to him that Monte-Cristo smiled, not with 
the strange and fearful expression which had sometimes revealed 
to him the secrets of his heart, but with the benevolent kindness 
of a father for a son. Morrel, overpowered, turned round in the 
arm-chair ; a delicious torpor was insinuated into every vein ; a 
change of ideas presented themselves to his brain, like a new 
design on the kaleidoscope ; enervated, postrate, and breathless, 
he became unconscious of outward objects, he seemed to be enter- 
ing that vague delirium preceding death. He wished once again 
to press the count’s hand ; but his own was unmovable : he wished 
to articulate a last farewell, but his tongue lay motionless and 
heavy in his throat, like a stone at the mouth of a sepulchre. 

The count had just opened a door. Immediately a brilliant 
light from the next room, or rather from the palace adjoining, 
shone upon the room in which he was gently gliding into his last 
sleep. Then he saw a woman of marvellous beauty appear on the 
threshold of the door separating the two rooms. Pale, and 
sweetly smiling, she looked like an angel of mercy conjuring the 
angel of vengeance. 44 Is it heaven that opens before me?” 
thought the dying man ; “ that angel resembles the one I have 
lost.” Monte-Cristo pointed Morrel to the young woman, who 
advanced toward him with clasped hands and a smile upon her 
lips. 

44 Valentine! Valentine!” he mentally ejaculated; but his lips 
uttered no sound ; and, as though all his strength was centered in 
that eternal emotion, he sighed and closed his eyes. Valentine 
rushed toward him ; his lips again moved. 

“ He is calling you,” said the count; 44 he to whom you have 
confided your destiny — he from whom death would have separated 
you, calls you to him. Happily, I vanquished death. Hence 
forth, Valentine, you will never again be separated on earth ; sines 


fe;. '-' ' - lllitf.lir 

THE COUNT OF MOAlttt I^VP^O-i j ; j | |47Jfi 

ne has rushed into death to find you. Without me, you would 
both have died. May God accept my atonement of these two 
existences ! 1 * 

Valentine seized the count’s hand, and, in her irresistible im- 
pulse of joy, carried it to her lips. 

44 Oh ! thank me again ! ” said the count ; 14 tell me till you are 
weary, that I have restored you to happiness ; you do not know 
how much I require this assurance.’ ’ 

41 Oh! yes, yes, I thank you with all my heart," said Valen- 
tine ; 44 and if you doubt the sincerity of my gratitude, oh, then, 
ask Haydee !~ask my beloved sister Haydee, who, ever since our 
departure from France, has caused me to wait patiently for this 
happy day, while talking to me of you.” 

44 You then love Haydee? *’ asked Monte-Cristo, with an emo- 
tion he in vain endeavored to dissimulate. 44 Well, then! I have 
a favor to ask of you.” 

44 Of me ! Oh, am I happy enough without that pleasure.” 

44 Yes ; you have called Haydee your sister ; let her become so 
indeed, Valentine ; render her all the gratitude you fancy you owe 
me; protect her, for” (the count’s voice was thick with emo- 
tion) 44 henceforth she will be alone in the world.” 

44 Alone in the world!” repeated a voice behind the count, 
44 and why ? ” 

Monte-Cristo turned round ; Haydee was standing pale, motion- 
less, looking at the count with an expression of fearful amazement. 

44 Oh, heavens! ” exclaimed Monte-Cristo, 44 can my suspicions 
be correct? Haydee would it please you not to leave me? ” 

44 1 am young,” gently replied Haydee ; 44 I love the life you 
have made so sweet to me, and should regret to die.” 

44 You mean, then, that if I leave you, Haydee " 

44 1 should die ; yes, my lord/* 

44 Do you then love me?” 

44 Oh, Valentine ! he asks if I love him. Valentine, tell him if 
you love Maximilian.” The count felt his heart dilate and throb ; 
he opened his arms, and Haydee, uttering a cry, sprang into them. 
«• Oh, yes ! ” she cried, 44 I do love you ! I love you as one loves 
a father, brother, husband ? I love you as my life, for you are the 
best, the noblest of created beings ! ” 

44 Let it be, then, as you wish, sweet angel ; God has sustained 
me in my struggle with my enemies, and has given me this vic- 
tory ; He will not let me end my triumph with this penance ; I 
wished to punish myself, but He has pardoned me ! Love me 
then, Haydee ! Who knows ? perhaps your love will make me 
forget all I wish not to remember.” 

44 What do you mean, my lord?” 44 1 mean that one word 

from you has enlightened me more than twenty years of slow ex- 
Errience ; I have but you in the world, Haydee. Come, Haydee. 


THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO . 

come !/* and throwing his arm around the girl’s waist, he pressed 
the hand oif Valentine, and disappeared. 

An hour had nearly passed, during which Valentine, breathless 
and motionless, watched steadfastly over Morrel. At length she 
felt his heart beat, a faint breath played upon his lips, a slight 
shudder, announcing the return of life, passed through the young 
man’s frame. At length, his eyes opened, but they were at first 
fixed and expressionless; then sight returned, and, with it, feel- 
ing and grief. “Oh!” he cried, in an accent of despair, “the 
count has deceived me; I am yet living;” and extending his 
hand toward the table, he seized a knife. 

“Dearest!” exclaimed Valentine, with her adorable smile, 
“ awake, and look on me ! ” Morrel uttered a loud exclamation, 
and frantic, doubtful, dazzled as though by a celestial vision, he 
fell upon his knees. 

****** 

The next morning, at daybreak, Valentine and Morrel were 
walking arm-in-arm on the sea-shore, Valentine relating how 
Monte-Cristo bad appeared in her room ; how he had told her of 
everything ; how he had revealed the crime ; and, finally, how he 
had saved her life by allowing her to seem dead. They had found 
the door of the grotto opened, and went forth, the few remaining 
stars yet pressing through the morning light. Morrel soon per- 
ceived a man standing amidst the group of rocks, who was await- 
ing a sign from them to advance ; he pointed him out to Valen- 
tine. “ Ah ! it- is Jacopo,” she said, “ the captain of the yacht w ” 
and she beckoned him toward them. 

“ Do you wish to speak to us? ’’ asked Morrel. 

“ I have a letter to give you from the count.” 

•• From the count ! ” murmured the two young people. 

Yes ; read it.” Morrel opened the letter and read 

“My dear Maximilian, 

“ There is a felucca for you at anchor. Jacopo will com 
duct you to Leghorn, where M. Noirtier waits his grand-daughter, 
whom he wishes to bless before you lead her to the altar. All 
that is in this cave, my friend, my house in the Champs Ely sees, 
and my Chateau at Treport, are the marriage gifts bestowed ty 
Edmond Dantes upon the son of his old master, Morrel. Mdlte. 
de Villefort will share them with you ; for I entreat her to give to 
the poor the immense fortune reverting to her from her father, now 
a madman, and her brother, who died last September with his 
mother. Tell the angel who will watch over your future destiny, 
Morrel, to pray sometimes for a man, who, like Satan, thought 
himself, for an instant, equal to God ; but who now acknowledges, 
with Christian humility, that God alone possesses supreme power 
inftnka wisdom, Pech&amp;ps those prayers may soften the re- 


1 1 fill/; cv 

THE COUNT OF MONTE Cr/\STO. 479 

morse he feels in his heart. As fo* y ou, Morrel, this is the secret 
of my conduct toward you. There \s neither happiness nor misery 
in the world ; there is only the comparison of one state with 
another, nothing more. He who has felt the deepest grief is best 
able to experience supreme happiness. We must have felt what 
it is to die, Morrel, that we may appreciate the enjoyments of life. 

“ Live, then, and be happy, beloved children of my heart ! and 
never forget, that until the day when God will deign to reveal tne 
future to man, all human wisdom is contained in these two 
words, — ‘ Wait and hope' 

" Your friend, 

M Edmond Dantes, Count of Monte-Cristo.” 

During the perusal of this letter, which informed Valentine, for 
the first time, of the madness of her father and the death of her 
brother, she became pale, a heavy sigh escaped from her bosom*, 
and tears, not the less painful because they were silent, ran down 
her cheeks ; her happiness cost her very dear. Morrel looked round 
uneasy. “ But,” he said, “ the count’s generosity is too over- 
whelming ; Valeriitine will be satisfied with my humble fortune. 
Where is the count, friend? Lead me to him.” Jacopo pointed 
toward the horizon. 

The eyes of both were fixed upon the spot indicated by the 
sailor, and on the blue line separating the sky from the Mediter- 
ranean Sea, they perceived a large white sail. “Gone!” said 
Morrel : “ Gone ! — Adieu, my friend ! — adieu, my father ! ” 

“Gone! ” murmured Valentine: “Adieu, my friend! — adieu, 
my sister ! ’ * 

“Who can say whether we shall ever see them again?” said 
Morrel, with tearful eyes. 

“ My friend,” replied Valentine, “has not the count just told 
us, that all human wisdom was contained in these two words**** 
5 Wait and hope? ’ M 


The END!