Exodus.
Chapter 36.
And Bezalel and Ahaliab, with every man wise in heart, to whom the Lord had given wisdom and intelligence to know how to make each work for the service of the sanctuary, wrought (according) to all that the Lord had commanded. 
And Mosheh called Bezalel and Ahaliab, and every man wise in heart, to whose heart the Lord had given wisdom, everyone whose heart was led to draw near and do the work itself. 
And they took from Mosheh all the separation which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary to make it. And they still brought to him votive offerings from morning to morning. 
And all the wise men who wrought all the work of the sanctuary came, each man from his work which they had wrought. 
And they spake with Mosheh, saying, The people abound in bringing more than is needed for the work which the Lord hath commanded to make. 
And Mosheh ordered, and they made publication in the camp, saying, Let no man or woman make any more work of the separation for the sanctuary: and the people ceased to bring. 
For what had been done was sufficient for all the work to be wrought, and more than enough. 
And all the wise-hearted of them who did the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine linen, and hyacinth, and purple, and crimson, (with) forms of kerubin the work of the embroiderer he made them. 
The length of one curtain twenty and eight cubits, and the breadth of the curtain four cubits; there was one measure for all the curtains. 
And he conjoined five curtains one with another, and five curtains conjoined he one with another. 
And he made loopings of hyacinth upon the border of one curtain at the edge of the place of conjunction; so made he upon the border of the other curtain at the edge of the second place of conjunction. 
Fifty loopings he made on one curtain, and fifty loopings he made on the border of the second curtain at the place of conjunction: the loopings were arranged the one to correspond with the other. 
And he made fifty taches of gold, and conjoined the curtains one with another by the taches, and the tabernacle became one. 
And he made curtains of goat’s hair to spread over the tabernacle: eleven curtains made he them. 
The length of one curtain thirty cubits, and four cubits the breadth of one curtain; one measure had the eleven curtains. 
And he conjoined five curtains together, and six curtains together. 
And he made fifty loops upon the border of the curtain on the side of the conjunction, and fifty loops made be upon the side of the second curtain at the place of conjuncture. 
Arid he made fifty taches of brass to conjoin the tabernacle, that it might be one. 
And be made the covering of the tabernacle of rams’ skins reddened, and a covering of purple skins above. 
And he made the boards of the tabernacle of sittin wood, standing. 
Ten cubits the length of a board, and a cubit and a half the breadth of one board. 
Two tenons for one board corresponding one with the other; so made he for all the boards of the tabernacle. 
And be made the boards of the tabernacle twenty boards on the side towards the south. 
And forty sockets of silver made he under the twenty boards, two sockets under one board for its two tenons, and two sockets under one board for its two tenons. 
And for the second side of the tabernacle toward the north he made twenty boards, 
And their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under one board. 
And for the side of the tabernacle westward he made six boards; 
And two boards made he at the corners of the tabernacle at their extremities. 
And they were compacted in the lower part together, and compacted in their upper part by one ring; thus did he at both of the two corners. 
And there were eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets, two and two, under each board. 
And he made bars of sittin wood; five for the boards of one side of the tabernacle, 
and five bars for the boards of the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the extremity of the tabernacle, westward. 
And he made a middle bar to pass through, in the midst of the boards from end to end. 
And the boards he overlaid with gold, and their rings made he of gold (to be) places for the bars, and be covered the bars with gold. 
And he made the VEIL of hyacinth, and purple, and crimson, and fine linen; of the work of the embroiderer he made it, with forms of kerubin. 
And he made for it four pillars of sittin, and covered (them) with gold, and their books of gold, and cast for them four sockets of silver. 
And he made a curtain for the door of the tabernacle, of hyacinth, and purple, and crimson, and fine linen, the work of the embroiderer. 
And its five pillars and their hooks; and he overlaid their capitals, and covered them and their joining rods with gold, and their five bases (made he) of brass. 
