Numbers.
Chapter 12.
And Miriam and Aharon spake against Mosheh, because of the fair woman whom he had taken, because the fair woman who had been sent away he had taken. 
And they said, Hath the Lord spoken only with Mosheh? Hath He not spoken with us also? And it was heard before the Lord. 
(But the man Mosheh was very humble, more than all the men who were upon the face of the earth.) 
And the Lord spake suddenly with Mosheh, and to Aharon and to Miriam: Come forth, you three, to the tabernacle of ordinance; and those three went forth. 
And the Lord was revealed in the pillar of the Cloud, and stood at the door of the tabernacle: and He called Aharon and Miriam, and they two came forth. 
And He said, Hear now My words. If there be prophets with you, I the Lord will reveal Myself (to them) in visions, in dreams will I speak with them. 
But not so (with) My servant Mosheh; over all My house faithful is he. 
Speaker with speaker will I speak with him; in apparition, and not in similitudes; and he shall behold the likeness of the glory of the Lord. And how is this, that you have not been afraid to speak against My servant, against Mosheh? 
And the displeasure of the Lord was strong against them, and He went up. 
And the Cloud went up from over the tabernacle. And, behold, Miriam was white as snow; and Aharon looked upon Miriam, and, behold, she was leprous. 
And Aharon said to Mosheh, My lord, I entreat that thou wouldst not lay this sin upon us, in that we have acted foolishly, and have transgressed. 
Let not this one, I entreat, be separated from among us, for she is our sister. Pray, now, over this dead flesh which is in her, that she may be healed. 
And Mosheh prayed before the Lord, saying: O God, I beseech Thee, heal her now. 
But the Lord said to Mosheh, If her father, correcting, had corrected her, ought she not to have been ashamed seven days? Let her be shut up seven days without the camp, and afterward be admitted. 
And Miriam was shut up without the camp seven days; and the people journeyed not until Miriam was brought in. 
And afterward the people journeyed from Hatseroth, and encamped in the wilderness of Pharan. 
