Genesis.
Chapter 32.
And Laban arose in the morning, and kissed his sons and his daughters, and blessed them, and went; and Laban returned to his place. 
And Jakob went on his way, and the angels of the Lord met him. 
And when Jakob saw them, he said, This is a host from before the Lord; and he called the name of the place Mahanaim. 
And Jakob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother to the land of Seir, in the region of Edom; 
And he instructed them, saying, So shall you tell to my lord, to Esau: Thus saith thy servant Jakob, With Laban I have dwelt, and have tarried, until now. 
And I have oxen, and asses, sheep, and servants, and handmaids, and have sent to show my lord, to find grace in thine eyes. 
And the messengers returned to Jakob, saying, We came to thy brother, to Esau; and he cometh also to meet thee, and four hundred men with him. 
And Jakob feared greatly, and it distressed him. And he divided the people that were with him, and the sheep, and oxen, and camels, into two hosts, 
And said, If Esau come to the one host and smite it, the host that is left may escape. 
And Jakob said, God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Izhak, the Lord, who didst say to me, Return to thy country and to thy native place, and I will do thee good; 
less are my righteousnesses than all the mercies and all the benefits which Thou hast performed unto Thy servant: for alone I passed this Yardena, and now I have become two bands. 
Deliver me now from the hand of my brother, from the band of Esau; for I am afraid of him, lest he come and smite me, and the mother with the children. 
And Thou hast said, In doing good I will do good with thee, and will make thy sons many as the sand of the sea which cannot be numbered for number. 
And he housed there that night, and took of that which came to his hand, an offering for Esau his brother; 
Goats two hundred, rams twenty, ewes two hundred, and rams twenty, 
Camels giving milk and their young ones thirty, cows forty, and bulls ten, she-asses twenty, and colts ten. 
And he gave them into the hand of his servants, herd by herd separately, and said to his servants, Pass over before me, and put a space between herd and herd. 
And he commanded the foremost, saying, If Esau my brother meet thee, and ask thee, saying, Whose art thou? And, Whither goest thou? And, Whose are these that are before thee? 
Thou shalt say, They are an offering of thy servant Jakob, which he hath sent to my lord, to Esau; and, behold, he also cometh after us. 
And he instructed also the second and the third, and all of them who followed the herds, saying, According to this word you shall speak with Esau, when you find him; 
And say also, Behold, thy servant Jakob cometh after. For he said, I will quiet his anger by the offering that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face; perhaps he will accept me. 
And the offering went over before his face, and he himself lodged that night in the camp. 
And he arose in the night, and took his two wives, and his two concubines, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jubeka; 
And he took them and made them pass over the torrent, and made what was his to pass over. 
And Jakob remained alone; and a Man wrestled with him till the morning ascended. 
And he saw that he prevailed not with him, and he touched the hollow of his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob’s thigh was dislocated in wrestling with him. 
And he said, Let me go; for the morning ascendeth And he said, I will not let Thee go, unless Thou bless me. 
And He said to him, What is thy name? And he said, Jakob. 
And He said, Thy name shall be no longer Jakob, but Israel; for a prince art thou before the Lord, and with men, and thou hast prevailed. 
And Jakob asked Him, and said, Show me now Thy Name! And He said, Why dost thou ask My Name? And He blessed him there. 
And Jakob called the name of the place Peniel: because I have seen the Angel of the Lord face to face, and my soul hath been saved! 
And the sun arose upon him as he passed over Penuel, and he went lame upon his thigh. 
Therefore the sons of Israel do not eat the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day, because He touched the hollow of Jakob’s thigh in the sinew that shrank. 
