Genesis.
Chapter 47.
And Joseph came and showed Pharoh, and said, My father and my brethren, and their sheep and their oxen, and all that they have, are come from the land of Kenaan, and, behold, they are in the land of Goshen. 
And of the extreme of his brethren he took five men, and made them stand before Pharoh. 
And Pharoh said to his brethren, What are your employments? And they said to Pharoh, thy servants are shepherds; both we and our fathers. 
And they said to Pharoh, To dwell in the land are we come for there is no pasture for thy servants’ flocks; for the famine prevails in the land of Kenaan, and we pray thee let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen. 
And Pharoh spake to Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy brethren are come to thee; 
The land of Mizraim is before thee in the best of it let thy father and thy brethren dwell, (even) in the land of Goshen: and if thou know any of them to be men of ability, appoint them to be chiefs over my flocks. 
And Joseph brought Jakob his father, and presented him before Pharoh: and Jakob blessed Pharoh. 
And Pharoh said to Jakob, How many are the days of the years of thy life? 
And Jakob said to Pharoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are a hundred and thirty years. Few and evil have been the days of the years of my life, and I have not attained to the days of the years of the life of my fathers, in the days of their pilgrimage. 
And Jakob blessed Pharoh, and went out from before Pharoh. 
And Joseph made his father and his brethren to dwell, and gave them a possession in the land of Mizraim, in the best of the land, in the land of Ramesis, as Pharoh had commanded. 
And Joseph sustained his father and his brethren, and all the house of his father, with bread, according to the mouth of the family (of each). 
And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine prevailed greatly, and the people of the land of Mizraim and the people of the land of Kenaan failed before the famine. 
And Joseph collected all the money which was found in the land of Mizraim and in the land of Kenaan, for the corn which they bought. And Joseph brought the money into the house of Pharoh. 
And the money was finished from the land of Mizraim and from the land of Kenaan; and all the Mizraee came to Joseph, saying, Give us bread: for why should we die before thee? For the money is finished. 
And Joseph said, Bring your cattle, and I will give you provision, if your money is finished. 
And they brought their cattle to Joseph, and Joseph gave them bread for their horses, and for their flocks of sheep, and for their herds of oxen, and for their asses, and for all their cattle; he fed them with bread for that year. 
And that year was completed; and they came to him in the second year, and said to him, We will not conceal it from our lord, but the money is ended, and (we have delivered up) our cattle to our lord, and there is nothing left before our lord but our bodies and our land. 
Why should we perish before thee, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants to Pharoh, and give us seed corn, that we may live and not die, and the land may not be desolate. 
And Joseph acquired all the land of Mizraim for Pharoh; for the Mizraee sold every man his portion, because the famine prevailed over them, and the land became Pharoh’s. 
And the people he made him to pass from city to city, from one end of the limit of Mizraim to the other. 
Only the land of the priests he did not buy; for a portion (was given) by Pharoh to the priests: and they ate their portion which Pharoh gave them; therefore they sold not their land. 
And Joseph said to the people, Behold, I have bought you this day and your land for Pharoh. Behold, (I give) you seed corn, that you may sow the land. 
And it shall be, when it bringeth forth produce, that you shall give one in five to Pharoh, and four parts shall be yours, of the corn of the field, that you and the men of your house may eat, and your little ones have food. 
And they said, Thou hast preserved us; may we find grace in the eyes of my lord, and we will be the servants of Pharoh. 
And Joseph made it a statute unto this day over the land of Mizraim, that one of five should be given to Pharoh; only the land of the priests alone was not Pharoh’s. 
And Israel dwelt in the land of Mizraim in the land of Goshen, and possessed it: and they increased and multiplied greatly. 
And Jakob lived in the land of Mizraim seventeen years. And the days of the years of the life of Jakob were a hundred and forty and seven years. 
And the days of Israel drew near to die. And he called to his son, to Joseph, and said to him, If now I have found favour in thine eyes, put, I beseech thee, thine hand under my thigh, and deal with me in goodness and truth; nor bury me, I beseech thee, in Mizraim; 
But I will sleep with my fathers; and thou shalt carry me from Mizraim, and bury me in their sepulchre. And he said, I will do according to thy word. 
And he said, Swear to me; and he sware to him. And Israel worshipped upon the pillow of the bed. 
