Leviticus.
Chapter 26.
You shall make to you no idols, nor image, nor set up for you a statue; nor a stone for worship shall you make on your land to worship upon it, for I am the Lord your God. 
The days of my Sabbaths you shall keep, and reverence the house of my sanctuary: I am the Lord. 
If you walk in My statutes, and observe My commandments and perform them, 
Then will I give you rains in their season, and your land shall yield her produce, and the tree of the field its fruit. 
And for you the threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vintage shall reach unto the shooting forth of the seed; and you shall eat your bread with sufficiency, and dwell safely in your land. 
And I will give peace in the land, and you shall inhabit, and no one (be among you) who disturbeth. And I will make the evil beast to cease from the land, neither shall they who destroy with the sword pass through on your land. 
And you shall chase your adversaries, and they shall fall before you by the sword. 
And five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you put a myriad to flight, and your adversaries shall fall before you by the sword. 
For I will have regard to you in my Word, to do you good, and will add to you, and multiply you, and establish My covenant with you. 
And you shall eat the old of the old, and shall turn out the old before the new. 
And I will set My Tabernacle among you, and My Word shall not reject you. 
And I will make My Shekinah to dwell among you, and I will be to you Eloha, and you shall be a people before Me. 
I am the Lord your God who brought you out from the land of Mizraim, that you should not be bondmen to them; and I brake off the yoke of the Gentiles from you, and brought you into liberty. 
But if you will not be obedient to My Word, nor perform all these commandments; 
And if you despise My statutes, and your soul abhor My judgments, so as not to do all My commandments, by your making My covenant of no effect, (or, by your changing My covenant,) 
I also will do this unto you: I will visit you with trouble, wasting and burning with darkness of eyes, and exhaustion of soul; and ye shall sow your seed in vain for your enemies shall eat it. 
And I will reveal My anger against you, and you shall be broken before your enemies; they that hate you shall reign over you, and ye shall flee when no one pursueth you. 
And if yet with these ye will not obey My Word, I will add sevenfold chastisement upon your sins. 
And I will break the glory of your power, and will make the heavens above you obdurate as iron, to give no rain, and the ground beneath you hard as brass in yielding no fruit; 
And your strength shall be put forth in vain, for your ground will not yield its produce, nor the tree of the earth its fruit. 
And if you will walk on forwardly before Me, and will not turn again to obey My Word, I will add to bring upon you a stroke sevenfold (heavier) according to your sins. 
And I will send the beast of the wilderness against you, and it shall devour you, and consume your cattle, and diminish you, and make your ways desolate. 
And if through these (calamities) ye will not be corrected by My Word, but will walk before Me with hardness (of heart), 
I also will proceed with you in hardness, and will smite you, even I, sevenfold for your sins. 
And I will bring upon you those who kill with the sword, who shall take vengeance upon you in punishment for your transgressions against the words of the law. And you will congregate in your cities; but I will send forth the pestilence among you, and you shall be delivered into the hands of your enemies. 
When I shall have broken for you the support of food, ten women will prepare your bread in one oven, and return your bread by weight, and you will eat, but will not be satisfied. 
And if with this you will not be obedient to My Word, but will walk before me with obstinacy, 
I will proceed with you with strengthened anger, and will chastise you, even I, sevenfold for your sins. 
And ye shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters will you eat. 
And I will destroy your high places, and cut down your images, and will throw your carcases upon the carcases of your idols, and My Word shall abhor you. 
And I will make your cities a waste, and lay waste your sanctuary, and accept no more the offering of your congregation. 
And I will make your country a wilderness, and your enemies who will dwell in it shall spread desolation upon it. 
And I will disperse you among the nations, and draw out after you them who kill with the sword, and your country shall be a desert and your cities a waste. 
Then shall the land enjoy her repose all the days in which it shall be a desert, and you be in the land of your enemies: so shall the land repose, and enjoy her remission: 
All the days of its desolateness it shall rest; because it did not rest in your times of intermission, when you were inhabitants upon it. 
And to the heart of those of you who are left in the land of their enemies will I send brokenness, and they shall flee at the sound of a falling leaf; they shall flee as flying from before those who kill with the sword, and fall, while no man pursueth. 
They shall thrust, one man against his brother, as (fugitives) from before them who destroy with the sword, while no one is pursuing and ye shall have no power against your adversaries; 
And ye shall perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies shall consume you. 
And they who are left of shall pine away in your sins, in their adversaries’ land, and for their sins, also, the evil deeds of their fathers which their own hands hold fast, shall they pine away. 
But, if they will confess their sins, and the sins of their fathers, and their falseness with which they have acted falsely before My Word, and that they have walked before me in obduracy, 
(while) I also have dealt against them with sharpness, and brought them into the land of their enemies; when then their stout heart shall be broken, and they concur with (the punishment of) their sins, 
I will remember my covenant with Jacob, and my covenant with Izhak, and also my covenant with Abraham will I remember, and I will remember the land. 
But the land shall be left by them, and shall enjoy her repose while made desolate for them, and they shall receive (the punishment of) their sins; curses instead of blessings will I have brought upon them who had cast away My judgments, and whose soul had abhorred My statutes. 
Yet, even in the land of their enemies I will not strike them down, nor cast them away to consume them utterly, and to make My covenant with them to change; for I am the Lord their God. 
But I will remember the former covenant with them whom I brought out of the land of Mizraim in the eyes of the nations, that I might be their God. I am the Lord. 
These are the statutes and judgments and laws which the Lord appointed between His Word and the sons of Israel, in the mountain of Sinai, by the hand of Mosheh. 
