Leviticus.
Chapter 20.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, 
Speak unto the sons of Israel: Whatever man of the sons of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel, giveth his offspring unto Molek, with killing shall he be killed; the people of the house of Israel shall stone him with stones. 
And I will show My displeasure against that man, and will destroy from among his people, because he hath given his offspring unto Molek, to defile My sanctuary and to profane My holy Name. 
And if the people of the house of Israel turn away (or hide) their eyes from that man when he giveth his offspring to Molek, that they may not have to put him to death, 
I will give forth My anger against that man, and against his abettors, and will destroy him, and all who go after him, to wander after Molek, from among their people. 
And the man who turneth away after impostors and diviners to wander after them, I will set My displeasure upon that man, and will cut him off from among his people. 
But you shall be sanctified, and be holy; for I am your God. 
And you shall observe My statutes, and do them: I am the Lord who sanctify you. 
For the man who curseth his father or his mother shall be surely put to death; he hath cursed his father, he is guilty of death. 
And the man who committeth adultery with his neighbour’s wife shall be surely put to death; the adulterer and the adulteress. 
And the man who lieth with his father’s wife, uncovering his father’s nakedness, shall be surely put to death; both of them are guilty of death. 
And a man who lieth with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall be slain: they have wrought confusion, they are guilty of death. 
And a man who lieth with a man as with a woman, both of them have wrought abomination: they are to be surely put to death, of death they are guilty. 
And when a man taketh a wife along with her mother, it is wickedness; both he and they shall be burned with fire; such wickedness shall not be among you. 
And if a man lie with a beast, be shall be surely put to death, and you shall kill the beast. 
And if a woman approach to a beast to submit to it, the woman shall be put to death, and the beast; they shall verily be killed; of death they are guilty. 
And a man who shall take his sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother, and see her nakedness, and she see his nakedness, it is an ignominy and they shall be destroyed before the eyes of the children of their people: he hath uncovered the nakedness of his sister, he shall receive (the punishment of) his guilt. 
And a man who lieth with a woman who is unclean, and uncovereth her nakedness, he hath uncovered her shame, and she hath uncovered the uncleanness of her blood: both of them shall be cut off from among their people. 
Neither shalt thou uncover the nakedness of thy mother’s sister, nor of thy father’s sister; for he will have uncovered that of his near kin; they shall receive for their sin. 
And if a man lie with the wife of his father’s brother he hath uncovered the nakedness of his father’s brother; they shall receive for their guilt without children shall they die. 
And if man take his brother’s wife, a thing to be kept aloof from, (merachaka,) he bath uncovered the nakedness of his brother, they shall be childless. 
But keep you all My statutes and all My judgments, and do them, that the land into which I bring you to dwell may not cast you out. 
You shall not walk in the laws of the peoples whom I drive away from before you; for they have committed all these thin, and My Word hath abhorred them. 
But I have said to you, Ye shall inherit this land, and I will give it to you to possess it, a land producing milk and honey. I am the Lord your God who have separated you from the peoples. 
And you shall make distinction between animals clean and unclean, and between fowls unclean and clean, and not make your souls abominable by beast, or by fowl, or by anything that creepeth on the ground which I have separated (as to be) unto you unclean. 
And you shall be holy before Me; for I the Lord am holy, and I have separated you from the nations to be worshippers before Me. 
A man or a woman with whom are impostures or divinations shall be verily put to death; with stones they shall be stoned, they are guilty of death. 
