Deuteronomy.
Chapter 5.
And Mosheh called all Israel, and said to them: Listen, Israel, to the statutes and judgments which I speak before you this day, and learn them, and keep them to do them. 
The Lord our God confirmed a covenant with us at Horeb. 
The Lord confirmed not this covenant with our fathers, but with us who are here all of us living this day: 
Word with word hath the Lord spoken with you at the mountain from the midst of the fire, 
(I stood between the Word of the Lord and you, to announce to you at that time the word of the Lord; for you were afraid in presence of the fire, and went not up to the mountain,) saying: 
I am the Lord thy God, who hath brought thee out of the land of Mizraim, from the house of bondage. 
There shall not be with thee another god beside Me. 
Thou shalt not make to thee an image or any likeness of that which is in the heavens above, or on the earth below, or in the waters under the earth; 
Thou shalt not worship them or serve them: for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the guilt of fathers upon rebellious children, upon the third generation and upon the fourth of them that hate Me, when the children complete the sins of their fathers; 
But doing good unto (thousands of) generations of those who love Me, and keep My commandments. 
Thou shalt not swear by the Name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not acquit him who shall swear by His Name falsely. 
Keep the day of Shabbatha to sanctify it, as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee. 
Six days thou shalt work, and do all thy labour; 
But the seventh day is the Sabbath before the Lord thy God: thou shalt not perform any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy servant, thy handmaid, thy ox, thy ass, nor any of thy cattle, nor thy sojourner who is in thy gates; that thy servant and handmaid may rest as well as thou. 
And remember that thou wast a servant in the land of Mizraim, and that the Lord brought thee out from thence with a mighty hand and uplifted arm; therefore the Lord thy God hath commanded thee to observe the Sabbath day. 
Honour thy father and mother, as the Lord hath commanded, that thou mayest prolong thy days, and it may be well with thee in the land which the Lord thy God shall give thee. 
Thou shalt not kill life, nor commit adultery, nor steal, nor bear false witness against thy neighbour. 
Nor shalt thou desire thy neighbour’s wife, nor covet thy neighbour’s house, his field, or his servant, or his handmaid, his ox, or his ass, or anything that is thy neighbour’s. 
These words spake the Lord with all your congregation at the mount, from the midst of the fire, the clouds and the darkness, with a great voice, and hath not ceased. And He wrote them upon two tables of stone, and gave them to me. 
But it was, when you heard the voice from the midst of the fire and darkness, the mount burning with fire, all the chiefs of your tribes and your elders drew near to me. 
And you said, Behold, the Lord our God hath showed to us His glory and His greatness, and we have heard the voice of His Word out of the midst of the fire; this day have we seen that the Lord speaketh with a man, and he liveth. 
But now why should we die? For this great fire will consume us: if we go on to hear the voice of the Word of the Lord our God, we shall die. 
For who is there of all flesh who can hear the voice of the Word of the Living God speaking from the midst of fire (in the manner) that we have, and can live? 
Go thou near, and hear all that the Lord our God shall say, and speak thou with us all that the Lord our God shall speak with thee, and we will hearken and will do. 
And the voice of your words was heard before the Lord when you spake with me, and the Lord said to me, The voice of the words of this people which they have spoken with thee is heard before Me; all (the words) they have spoken are right. 
O that they may have such a heart to fear Me and keep all My commandments all days, that it may be well with them and their children forever. 
Go, and say to them, Return to your tents. 
31 But thou, stand here before Me, and I will tell thee all the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments, which thou shalt teach them, that they may do them in the land that I will give them to possess it. 
32 And you shall observe to do as the Lord your God hath commanded you, nor decline to the right hand or to the left. 
33 In all the way which the Lord your God hath commanded you shall ye walk, that you may live, and it may be well with you, and you may lengthen out your days in the land which you are to inherit. 
