Exodus.
Chapter 30.
And thou shalt make an altar upon which to burn fragrant incense, of woods of sittin shalt thou make it. 
A cubit its length, and a cubit its breadth, four-square shall it be, and two cubits its height. The horns of it shall be of the same. 
And thou shalt cover it with fine gold, its top and its sides round about, and its horns. And thou shalt make to it a crown of gold round about, 
And two rings of gold shalt thou make to it under its crown, upon its top corners, at its two sides and it shall be for the places of the staves by which to carry it. 
And thou shalt make the staves of sittin woods, and cover them with gold. 
And thou shalt place it before the veil which is over the ark of the testimony before the mercy seat which is over the testimony, where I will appoint My Word to be with thee. 
And Aharon shall burn thereon fragrant incense from morning to morning, when he setteth the lamps in order he shall burn it. 
And when Aharon kindleth the lamps between the evenings, he shall burn fragrant incense continually before the Lord in your generations. 
You shall not offer upon it incense of strange perfumes, nor holocaust, nor mincha, nor pour any libation upon it. 
And Aharon shall atone upon its horns once in the year with the blood of the sin offering of the atonement, once in the year shall he atone upon it, unto your generations. It is holy of holiness before the Lord. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, 
When thou takest the account of the sons of Israel according to their number, they shall give every man a ransom for his soul before the Lord, when thou numberest them, that there may not be death among them when thou numberest them. 
This they shall give: everyone who cometh over to the adnumberment, a half shekel, of the shekel of the sanctuary, of twenty mayin the shekel, half a shekel shall be set apart before the Lord. 
Everyone who cometh over to the adnumberment, from a son of twenty years and above, shall give the separation before the Lord. 
He who is rich shall not increase (it), and he who is poor shall not diminish from the half shekel in presenting the separation before the Lord to propitiate for your souls. 
And thou shalt take the silver of the propitiation from the sons of Israel, and appoint it for the service of the tabernacle of ordinance and it shall be to the sons of Israel for a memorial before the Lord to propitiate for your souls. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, 
Thou shalt make a LAVER of brass, and its foundation of brass for purifying; and set it between the tabernacle of ordinance and the altar, and put water therein. 
And Aharon and his sons shall purify at it their hands and their feet. 
In their entering into the tabernacle of ordinance they shall cleanse themselves with water, that they die not; or when they approach the altar to minister, to offer an oblation before the Lord; 
And (thus) they shall purify their hands and their feet, that they may not die. And it shall be to them an everlasting statute, to him and to his sons unto their generations. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, 
Take thou also to thee choice (first or principal) aromatics: pure myrrh, five hundred (shekels’ weight); and sweet cinnamon, one half (as much), two hundred and fifty (shekels) weight; of sweet calamus, two hundred and fifty (shekels’) weight; 
And cassia, five hundred (shekels) weight, of the shekels of the sanctuary; and olive oil, a hina full; 
And make it a holy anointing oil, most fragrant, the work of the perfumer; it shall be the holy oil for anointing. 
And thou shalt anoint therewith the tabernacle of ordinance and the ark of the testimony, 
and the table and all its vessels, and the candelabrum and its vessels, and the altar of sweet incense, 
and the altar of burnt offering and all its vessels, and the laver and its foundation, 
And consecrate them. They shall be most holy; whoever approacheth them shall be sanctified. 
And Aharon and his sons thou shalt anoint, and consecrate them to minister before Me. 
And thou shalt speak to the sons of Israel, saying, A holy anointing oil shall thus be unto Me for your generations. 
Upon the flesh of man it shall not be poured, nor the like to it be made; sacred is it, and sacred shall it be to you. 
The man who compoundeth the like to it, or who putteth it upon an alien, shall be destroyed from his people. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Take thee spices, stachte and onycha, and galbanum spices, and pure frankincense, weight for weight shall they be; 
And thou shalt make it a sweet incense, fragrant, the work of the, perfumer, mixed, pure, for consecration. 
And thou shalt beat some of it and make it fine, and put thereof before the testimony in the tabernacle of ordinance, where I will appoint My Word to be with thee; to you it shall be most holy. 
And of the sweet incense which thou shalt make you must not make the like for yourselves; it shall be sacred to thee before the Lord. 
The man who maketh the like of it, to smell thereto, shall be destroyed from his people. 
