Exodus.
Chapter 12.
And the Lord spake to Mosheh and Aharon in the land of Mizraim, saying, 
This month shall be to you the beginning of the months; the first, it shall be to you, of the months of the year. 
Speak with all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb for the house of a father, a lamb for the house. 
And if the house be smaller than the numbering (required) for the lamb, let him take himself, and his neighbour who is nearest to his house, according to the number of the souls, every man according to the mouth of his eating shall you count over the lamb. 
The lamb shall be perfect, a male, the son of a year; it shall be to you; from the sheep or from the goats you may take it. 
And you shall have it in keeping till the fourteenth day of this month, and the whole church (kehala) of the congregation of Israel shall kill him between the suns. 
And they shall take of the blood, and apply it upon the two posts and upon the lintel of the houses in which they eat him. 
And they shall eat the flesh in that night roasted with fire, and (with) unleavened cake with bitters you shall eat him. 
You shall not eat of it while living, neither boiled with boiling in water, but roasted with fire; his head with his feet and his inwards. 
And you shall not leave of it till the morning; and that which remains of it till morning you shall burn in the fire. 
And thus shall you eat it; with your loins girded, with your sandals on your feet, and your staves in your hands, and you shall eat it in haste; it is the Pascha before the Lord. 
And I will appear in the land of Mizraim in that night, and will kill every firstborn in the land from man unto beast, and on all the idols of Mizraim I will execute judgment: I am the Lord. 
And the blood shall be for you a sign upon the houses where you are; and I will see the blood, and will have mercy upon you, and there shall not be among you the destruction of death when I slay in the land of Mizraim. 
And this day shall be to you for a memorial, and you shall solemnize it a festival before the Lord in your generations; an everlasting ordinance (covenant) shall you solemnize it. 
no translation 
And on the first day there shall be an holy congregation, and on the seventh day an holy congregation shall there be to you. Every kind of work may not be done in them; save what pertains to the eating of every soul, that only may be done by you. 
And you shall keep the (feast of the) Unleavened; for on this very day shall I have brought your hosts out of the land of Mizraim, and you shall keep this day to all your generations forever. 
In Nisan, on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening you shall eat unleavened, until the twenty and first of the mouth in the evening. 
Seven days leaven shall not be found in your houses; for whosoever will eat of that which is leavened, that man shall perish from the congregation of Israel, of the stranger, or of the native of the land. 
You shall eat no leavened (food), in all your dwellings you shall eat unleavened. 
And Mosheh called for all the elders of Israel, and said to them, Draw out, and take to you from the sons of the flock for your families, and kill the pascha. 
And you shall take a bundle of hyssop and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and sprinkle upon the lintel and the two posts from the blood which is in the basin; and you shall not go forth from the door of your house until the morning. 
For the Lord will be revealed to smite the Mizraee; and seeing the blood upon the lintel and upon the two posts, the Lord will be merciful upon the door, and will not suffer the Destroyer (or destruction) to enter your houses to smite. 
And you shall observe the thing for an ordinance to thee and to thy sons forever. 
And it shall be, when you have entered into the land which the Lord will give you as He hath said, that you shall (still) keep this service. 
And it shall be, when your children say to you, What is this service to you? 
You shall say, It is a sacrifice for compassion before the Lord, because He had compassion on the house of the sons of Israel in Mizraim, when He smote the Mizraee, but spared our houses. And the people bowed and worshipped. 
And the sons of Israel went and did as the Lord had commanded Mosheh and Aharon, so did they. 
And it came to pass at the dividing of the night that the Lord slew all the firstborn in the land of Mizraim; from the firstborn of Pharoh who should sit on the throne of his kingdom unto the firstborn of the captive in the house of the chained, and all the firstborn of cattle. 
And Pharoh rose up in that night, and all his servants and all the Mizraee; and there was a great cry in Mizraim, because there was no house in which there was not the dead. 
And he cried to Mosheh and to Aharon by night, and said, Arise, go out from among my people, you and the sons of Israel, and go and serve before the Lord, as you have said. 
Your flocks and your herds take also, as you have spoken, and go, and pray also for me. 
And the Mizraee were forcible on the people to hasten to send them away; for they said, All of us are dead. 
And the people took their dough while not leavened, remaining in the kneading pans, bound with their clothes upon their shoulders. 
And the children of Israel did according to the word of Mosheh, and demanded of the Mizraee vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and raiment. 
And the Lord gave the people favour in the eyes of the Mizraee, and they demanded of them, and left the Mizraee empty. 
And the children of Israel journeyed from Ramases to Succoth; about six hundred thousand men on foot, besides children (or families); 
And a multitude of strangers also went up with them, and flocks and herds and very much cattle. 
And they baked the dough which they had brought out from Mizraim (into) unleavened cakes; for it had not been leavened, because they had been driven out from Mizraim and could not stay, and they had not made provision. 
And the dwelling of the sons of Israel in their abode in Mizraim (was) four hundred and thirty years. 
And it was at the end of four hundred and thirty years, in that same day, that all the hosts of the Lord went forth from the land of Mizraim. 
It is a night to be kept before the Lord for bringing them forth from the land of Mizraim: this is that night before the Lord kept by all the children of Israel in their generations. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh and to Aharon, This is the rite of the Pascha. Every son of Israel who apostatizes shall not eat of it; 
But every male servant bought with silver, and thou hast circumcised him, may eat thereof. 
A sojourner and a hireling shall not eat thereof. 
In one company it shall be eaten. You shall not carry any of the flesh from the house without, and a bone shall not be broken in him. 
All the congregation of Israel shall do this. 
And when the sojourner who sojourneth with thee will perform the pascha before the Lord, every male of his shall be circumcised, and he may then approach and perform it; he shall be as one born in the land, but none uncircumcised shall eat of it. 
One law shall there be for the native and for the proselyte who sojourneth among you. 
And all the children of Israel did as the Lord commanded Mosheh and Aharon, so did they. 
And it was on the same day that the Lord led forth the sons of Israel from the land of Mizraim by their armies. 
