Deuteronomy.
Chapter 27.
And Mosheh and the elders of Israel instructed the people, saying: Observe all the commandments which I command you this day. 
In the day that you pass over the Jordan to the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, thou shalt set thee up great stones, and cover them with plaster (or lime), 
And write upon them all the words of this law, when thou hast passed over to go into the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, a land producing milk and honey, as the Lord God of thy fathers hath said to thee. 
When you have passed the Jordan, you shall set up those stones which I command you this day, on the mountain of Ebal, and plaster them with lime; 
And thou shalt build an altar before the Lord thy God, an altar of stones: thou shalt not lift up iron upon it. 
With perfected stones shalt thou build the altar of the Lord thy God, and offer sacrifices thereon before the Lord thy God. 
And thou shalt sacrifice consecrated victims, and eat there, and rejoice before the Lord thy God; 
And thou shalt write upon the stones all the words of this law, distinctly and beautifully. 
And Mosheh, and the priests, the Levites, spake to all Israel: Listen and hear, O Israel: Today art thou a people before the Lord thy God 
and thou shalt hearken to the Word of the Lord thy God, and do His commandments and His statutes which I command thee this day. 
And Mosheh charged the people on that day, saying: 
These shall stand to bless the people on the mountain of Gerizim, when you have passed the Jordan; Shemeon and Levi, Jehudah, Issakar, Joseph, and Benjamin. 
And these shall stand to accurse upon the mountain of Ebal; Reuben and Asher, Zebulon, Dan, and Naphtali. 
And the Levites shall answer and say to all the men of Israel, with a high voice: 
Accursed be the man who shall make an image or molten (one), an abomination before the Lord, the work of an artificer’s hand, and place it in secret. And all the people shall respond and say, Amen. 
Accursed be he who contemneth his father or his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
Accursed he who changeth the boundary of his neighbour. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
Accursed he who maketh the blind wander in the way. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
Accursed he who perverteth the judgment of the stranger, the orphan, or the widow. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
Accursed he who lieth with his father’s wife: he uncovereth the skirt of his father. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
Accursed is he who lieth with any beast. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
Accursed is he who lieth with his sister, the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
Accursed is he who lieth with his mother-in-law. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
Accursed is he who smiteth his neighbour in secret. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
Accursed is he who receiveth hire to kill the life, and (shed the) blood of the innocent. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
Accursed is he who confirmeth not the words of this law to do them. And all the people shall say, Amen. 
