Genesis.
Chapter 20.
And Abraham migrated from thence to the southern land, and dwelt between Rekam and Hagra; and he sojourned in Gerar. 
And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister. And Abimelek, king of Gerar, sent and took Sarah. 
And the word came from the presence of the Lord to Abimelek in a dream of the night, and said to him, Behold, thou diest, on account of the woman whom thou hast taken, and she a man’s wife. 
But Abimelek had not come nigh her. And he said, Lord, wilt Thou also kill the innocent people? 
Did he not say to me, She is my sister? And she also said, He is my brother. In the rectitude of my heart, and the cleanness of my bands, have I done this. 
And the Lord said to him in a dream, It is also manifest to Me that in the integrity of thy heart thou hast done this, and I have also restrained thee from sinning before Me; therefore I have not permitted thee to approach to her. 
And now return the mares wife; for he is a prophet, and he will pray for thee, and thou shalt live. But if thou wilt not return (her), know that dying thou shalt die, thou, and all who are thine. 
And Abimelek arose in the morning, and called all his servants, and spake all these words before them; and the men feared greatly. 
And Abimelek called Abraham, and said to him, What hast thou done to us, and in what have I sinned against thee, that thou shouldst have brought upon me and upon my kingdom a great sin? Works which are not worthy to be done hast thou done with me. 
And Abimelek said to Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou didst this thing? 
And Abraham spake, Because I said, Perhaps the fear of the Lord is not in this place, and they will kill me on account of my wife. 
Nevertheless, in truth she is my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife. 
And it was, when the people erred after the works of their hands, the Lord did bring me near to the fear of Himself, from (among) the house of my father. And I said to her, This is thy favour which thou canst do for me; in every place through which we pass, say of me, He is my brother. 
And Abimelek took sheep, and oxen, and servants, and handmaidens, and gave to Abraham, and returned to him Sarah his wife. 
And Abimelek said, Behold, my land is before thee: where it is pleasant in thine eyes, dwell. 
And to Sarah he said, Behold, I have given a thousand seleen of silver to thy brother; behold, that is to thee a veil of honour, for my having sent to take thee, and to see thee, and all that is with thee; and concerning all whatever thou hast spoken thou art reproved. 
And Abraham prayed before the Lord, and the Lord healed Abimelek, and his wife, and his handmaids, and they were revived: 
For the Lord had shut all the wombs of the house of Abimelek, on account of Sarah, the wife of Abraham. 
