Numbers.
Chapter 36.
And the chief fathers of the families of the Beni Gilead, bar Makir, bar Menasheh, of the family of the Beni-Joseph, came and spake before Mosheh, the princes and chief fathers of the Beni Israel, 
and said: The Lord commanded Rabboni to give the land an inheritance by lot to the children of Israel; and Rabboni was commanded by the Word of the Lord to give the inheritance of Zelophechad our brother to his daughters. 
But if they become wives to any of the sons of the (other) tribes of the Beni Israel, then will their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of our fathers, and added to the inheritance of the tribe which will have become theirs, and be (thus) diminished from the portion of our inheritance. 
And when the Jubela of the children of Israel come, their inheritance will be added to the possession of the tribe that hath become theirs, and our possession will pass away from the inheritance of our father’s tribe. 
And Mosheh commanded the sons of Israel by the Word of the Lord, saying: The tribe of the sons of Joseph have spoken well. 
This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded for the daughters of Zelophechad, saying: Let them become the wives of those who are proper in their eyes, only of (men) of their father’s tribe may they become wives. 
And the inheritance of the children of Israel shall not turn from tribe to tribe; for every man of the Beni Israel shall keep himself to the inheritance of his father’s tribe. 
And every daughter inheriting a possession (in one) of the tribes of the children of Israel shall be wife of one of the families of her father’s tribe: that the sons of Israel may each man inherit the possession of his fathers. 
And the inheritance shall not pass from one tribe to another tribe, but everyone of the tribes of the Beni Israel shall keep to its own inheritance. 
As the Lord commanded Mosheh, so did the daughters of Zelophechad: 
And Maalah, and Thirzah, and Hegela, and Milchah, and Nohah, the daughters of Zelophechad, became wives of sons of their father’s brethren. 
They were married into the family of the Beni Menasheh bar Joseph, and their inheritance (remained) with the tribe of their father’s family. 
These are the commandments and judgments which the Lord commanded by the hand of Mosheh to the children of Israel, in the plains of Moab, by Jordan, near Jericho. 
