Genesis.
Chapter 13.
And Abram went up from Mizraim, he and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, unto the south. 
And Abram was exceeding strong in cattle, in silver, and in gold; 
And he proceeded according to his encampments from the south, and unto Bethel, unto the place where he had spread his tabernacle at the first, between Bethel and Ai; 
To the place of the altar which he had there made at the first: and Abram prayed there in the Name of the Lord. 
And Lot also, who went with Abram, had sheep and oxen and tents. 
And the land could not support them, that they might dwell together. 
And there was contention between the shepherds of the flock of Abram and the shepherds of the flock of Lot; and the Kenaanah and: the Pherizaah then dwelt in the land. 
And Abram said to Lot, Let there not now be contention between me and thee, and between my shepherds and thy shepherds; for men, brethren, are we. 
Is not all the land before thee? Separate now from me: if thou to the north, I to the south; and if thou to the south, I to the north. 
And Lot lifted up his eyes, and saw all the plain of Yardena that it was altogether a watered place, before the Lord had destroyed Sedom and Amorah, as the garden of the Lord, as the land of Mizraim coming unto Zoar. 
And Lot chose to him all the plain of Yardena; and Lot went forth before, and they were separated each man from his brother. 
Abram dwelt in the land of Kenaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of the plain, and extended unto Sedom. 
And the men of Sedom were wicked in their riches, and guilty in their bodies before the Lord greatly. 
And the Lord said to Abram, after Lot was separated from him, Lift up now thine eyes and see, from the place where thou art, thence to the north and to the south, and to the east and to the west; 
For all this land that thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy children forever. 
And I will place thy children numerous as the dust of the earth; so that as it is not possible for a man to number the dust of the earth, so also thy sons shall not be numbered. 
Arise, go through the land, in its length and in its breadth; for unto thee will I give it. 
And Abram spread (his tent), and came and dwelt in the plain of Mamre which is near Hebron, and builded there an altar before the Lord. 
