Numbers.
Chapter 20.
And the children of Israel, the whole congregation, came to the wilderness of Zin in the first month, and the people abode in Rekem; and Miriam died there, and was buried there. 
And there was no water for the congregation; and they gathered against Mosheh and against Aharon; 
And the people were contentious with Mosheh, and spake, saying, Would that we had died when our brethren died before the Lord! 
And why have you brought the congregation of the Lord into this wilderness, that we and our cattle may die here? 
And wherefore have you made us come up from Mizraim, to bring us into this evil place? This is not a place for sowing; here are neither fig trees, nor vines, nor pomegranates, neither is there water to drink. 
And Mosheh and Aharon went up from before the congregation unto the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, and fell upon their faces; and the glory of the Lord was revealed to them. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, 
Take the rod, and gather the congregation together, thou and Aharon thy brother, and speak to the Rock, before their eyes, and it shall give its waters; and thou shalt bring forth water for them from the rock, and give drink to the congregation and their cattle. 
And Mosheh took the rod from before the Lord, as He had commanded him. 
And Mosheh and Aharon assembled the congregation before the rock; and he said to them: Hear now, rebels! Are we to draw forth water for you from this rock? 
And Mosheh lifted up his hand, and smote the rock with the rod two times; and the waters came forth greatly, and the congregation drank and their cattle. 
But the Lord spake unto Mosheh and Aharon: Because you have not believed in My Word to sanctify Me in the eyes of the sons of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this congregation into the land that I have given them. 
These are the Waters of Strife, because the sons of Israel strove before the Lord, and He was sanctified in them. 
And Mosheh sent ambassadors from Rekem to the king of Edom: Thus saith thy brother Israel, Thou knowest all the trouble we have found; 
That our fathers went down into Mizraim, and we dwelt in Mizraim many days, and the Mizraee badly treated us and our fathers. 
And we prayed before the Lord, and He accepted our prayers, and sent an Angel, and brought us out from Mizraim; and, behold, we are in Rekem, a city which is on the side of thy border. 
Let us now pass through thy country: we will not go through a field or through a vineyard, nor will we drink up the water of the cistern: on the king’s highway will we travel; we will not turn to the right hand or to the left until we have passed through thy border 
But Edomea said to him, Thou shalt not pass through my border, lest I come out against thee with the slaughtering sword. 
And the sons of Israel said to him, We would go up by the trodden way; and if we drink of thy water, I and my cattle, we will give thee the price of it; we will do nothing evil; upon my feet I will pass through. 
But he said, Thou shalt not pass through. And Edomea came out to meet him with great force and with a strong hand. 
So Edomea refused to permit Israel to go through his border; and Israel turned away from him. 
And they went forward from Rekem, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came to Mount Hor. 
And the Lord spake to Mosheh and to Aharon at Mount Hor, by the coast of the land of Edom, saying: 
Aharon shall be gathered unto his people; for he shall not enter into the land which I have given to the children of Israel, because you rebelled against My Word at the waters of strife. 
Take Aharon and Elazar his son, and bring them up to Mount Hor; 
And strip Aharon of his vestments, and put them upon Elazar his son; and Aharon shall be gathered (to his people), and shall die there. 
And Mosheh did as the Lord commanded, and they went up to Mount Hor before the eyes of all the congregation. 
And Mosheh took off his garments from Aharon, and put them upon Elazar his son. And Aharon died there, on the summit of the mount. And Mosheh and Elazar came down from the mount. 
And all the congregation saw that Aharon was dead; and all the house of Israel bewailed Aharon thirty days. 
