Numbers.
Chapter 14.
And all the congregation lifted up and gave (forth) their voice; and all the people wept that night. 
And all the children of Israel murmured against Mosheh and Aharon; and the whole congregation said to them, O that we had died in the land of Mizraim, or that we had died in this wilderness! 
And why is the Lord bringing us to this land, that we may fall by the sword, and our wives and our children become a prey? Would it not be better for us to return into Mizraim? 
And they said, a man to his brother, Let us appoint a chieftain, and go back into Mizraim. 
And Mosheh and Aharon fell upon their faces before all the assembly of the sons of Israel. 
And Jehoshua bar Nun, and Kaleb bar Jephuneh, who were of the explorers of the land, rent their clothes. 
And they spake to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, saying: The land, which we passed through to explore it, is a good land, most exceedingly. 
If the Lord hath pleasure in us, even He will bring us into this land, and give us the land which produceth milk and honey. 
Only be not rebellious against the Word of the Lord, nor be afraid of the people of the land, for they are delivered into our hand; their strength is departed from them, and the Word of the Lord is our helper: fear them not. 
But all the congregation said that they would stone them with stones. And the Glory of the Lord was revealed at the tabernacle of ordinance, unto all the children of Israel. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, How long will this people provoke Me, and how long will they disbelieve in My Word, for all the signs which I have wrought among them? 
I will smite them with the pestilence and consume them; and will make of thee a people greater and stronger than they. 
But Mosheh said before the Lord, And the Mizraee will hear of it; for Thou didst bring up by Thy power this people from among them, 
And they will tell unto the inhabitants of this land; for they have heard that Thou, O Lord, dost dwell in Thy Shekinah among this people, whose eyes behold the glorious Shekinah of the Lord, and that Thy Cloud overshadoweth them, and that in the pillar of the Cloud Thou conductest them in the day, and in the pillar of Fire by night. 
Now if Thou shalt kill this people as one man, the nations who have heard the fame of Thy power will speak, saying: 
Because there was not strength (enough) before the Lord to bring this people into the land which He covenanted to them, He hath killed them in the desert. 
And now I beseech, let power be magnified from before the Lord, as Thou hast thus spoken, saying: 
The Lord is far from anger, and great in performing goodness and truth: forgiving iniquity and rebellion and sins, pardoning them who return unto His law: but acquitting not them who will not, turn, (but) visiting the sins of the fathers upon the rebellious children unto the third and unto the fourth generation. 
Pardon, I beseech, the sins of this people according to the amplitude of Thy goodness, and as Thou hast forgiven this people from Mizraim until now. 
And the Lord said, I have pardoned according to thy word. 
Yet, as I live, with the glory of the Lord shall all the earth be filled. 
Because all these men who have seen My glory, and the signs I wrought in Mizraim and in the desert, but have tempted before Me these ten times, and have not been obedient to My Word, 
if they shall see the land which I covenanted to their fathers, nor shall any see it who have provoked before Me. 
But My servant Kaleb, for that there was in him another spirit, and that he hath wholly followed (in) My fear, him will I bring into the land whither he went, and his children shall possess it. 
Now the Amalkaah and the Kenaanaah dwelt in the valley. Tomorrow, turn you and get you to the wilderness by the way of the Sea of Suph. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh and unto Aharon, saying: 
How long shall this evil congregation be murmuring against Me? The murmuring of the sons of Israel which they murmur against Me is heard before Me. 
Say to them, As I live, saith the Lord, even as ye have spoken before Me, so will I do to you. 
In this wilderness shall your carcases fall, and all who are numbered of you, of all your numbers, from one of twenty years and upward who have murmured against me. 
If you shall come into the land in which I covenanted in My Word to cause you to dwell, except Kaleb bar Jephuneh, and Jehoshua bar Nun. 
But your children, of whom you said they were for a prey, will I bring in, and they shall know the land which you have abhorred. 
But your carcases shall fall in this wilderness; 
And your children shall go about in the wilderness forty years, and shall bear your iniquities until your carcases be laid in the wilderness. 
According to the number of the days in which you explored the land, forty days, a day for a year, a day for a year, you shall receive for your sins, even forty years, and you shall know (the consequence of) your murmuring against me. 
I, the Lord, have made the decree in My Word, if I will not do unto all this evil congregation who have gathered together against Me; in this wilderness shall they find their end, and here shall they die. 
And the men whom Mosheh sent to search the land, and who returned to make all the congregation murmur against him, by bringing forth an evil name upon the land; 
Those men who brought out the evil name upon the land died by the plague before the Lord. 
But Jehoshua bar Nun and Kaleb bar Jephuneh lived, of those men who went to explore the land. 
And Mosheh told these words to all the children of Israel, and the people bewailed greatly. 
And they arose in the morning to go up to the top of the mountain, saying: Behold, we will go up to the place of which the Lord hath spoken; for we have sinned. 
But Mosheh said, Wherefore do you transgress against the decree of the Word of the Lord? But it will not prosper. 
Go not up, for the Shekinah of the Lord is not among you, and be not broken before your enemies. 
For the Amalkaah and the Kenaanaah are there before you, and you will fall by the sword; for, because you have turned away from the service of the Lord, the Word of the Lord will not be your helper. 
Yet they would commit the wickedness of going up to the summit of the mountain, though the ark of the Lord’s covenant, and Mosheh, removed not from the midst of the camp. 
And the Amalkaah and the Kenaanaah who dwelt in the mountain came down and smote them, and pursued them unto Hormah. 
