Exodus.
Chapter 25.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, 
Speak with the sons of Israel that they set apart before Me a separated portion: from every man who is willing in his heart thou shalt receive that which is set apart. 
And this is the separation that thou shalt take of them: gold, and silver and brass; 
And hyacinth, and purple and vermilion, (bright colour,) and fine linen, (butz,) and hair of goats, 
And skins of rams made red, and skins of purple, and sittin woods; 
Oil for the illuminators, aromatics for the anointing oil, and aromatics for the incense; 
Burilla stones, and stones that may complete the insetting of the ephod and the breastplate. 
And they shall make before me A SANCTUARY in which I will dwell among them. 
Altogether as I show thee the pattern of the sanctuary, and the pattern of all its vessels, even so shalt thou make them. 
And they shall make an ARK of sitta wood; two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height. 
And thou shalt cover it with pure gold within and without, and thou shalt make a crown of gold upon it round about. 
And thou shalt cast for it four rings of gold, and set them upon its four corners, two rings upon one side of it, and two rings upon its other side. 
And thou shalt make staves of sittin woods, and cover them with gold, 
and shalt insert the staves in the rings upon the sides of the ark, that the ark may be carried upon them. 
In the rings of the ark shall be the staves, they shall not be removed therefrom. 
And thou shalt place in the ark the Testimony that I will give thee. 
And thou shalt make A PROPITIATORY Of pure gold; two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth. 
And thou shalt make two KERUBIN of gold, beaten (ductile) shalt thou make them, on the two sides of the propitiatory. 
And thou shalt make one keruba on this side and one keruba on that side of the propitiatory; thou shalt make the kerubin on its two sides. 
And the kerubin shall have their wings outspreading above, overshadowing the propitiatory with their wings; and their faces shall be opposite one to another, towards the propitiatory shall be the faces of the kerubin. 
And thou shalt set the propitiatory upon the Ark over above, and within the ark shalt thou put the Testimony that I will give thee. 
And I will appoint My Word (Memra) with thee there; and I will speak with thee from above the Propitiatory, from between the two kerubin that are upon the Ark of the Testimony, all that I may command thee for the sons of Israel. 
And thou shalt Make A TABLE of sittin woods, two cubits the length of it, and a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height. 
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make for it a crown of gold round about. 
And thou shalt make to it a border, a handbreadth high round about, and make a crown of gold to the border of it round about. 
And thou shalt make for it four golden rings, and put the rings upon the four corners of its four feet. 
Opposite to the border shall be the rings for the place of the staves for carrying the table. 
And thou shalt make the staves of sittin woods, and cover them with gold, that they may carry the table upon them. 
And thou shalt make its dishes and its vases, its vials and its chalices with which the libations are outpoured, of pure gold shalt thou make them. 
And thou shalt set upon the table the PRESENCE BREAD continually before Me. 
And thou shalt make A CANDELABRUM; of pure ductile gold shalt thou make the candelabrum; its base and its shaft, its cups, apples, and lilies, of the same shall they be. 
And six branches shall come out from its sides, three branches of the candelabrum from one side, and three branches of the candelabrum on the second side. 
Three cups (calyxes) figured on one branch with apple and lily, and three cups figured on one branch with apple and lily, so for the six branches that come out from the candelabrum. 
And upon the candelabrum shall be four cups, figurated with apples and lilies; 
An apple under the two branches of this, and an apple under the two branches of that, according to the six branches that come forth from the candelabrum. 
Their apples and their branches shall be of it, all beaten of pure gold. 
And thou shalt make its seven lights, and kindle its lights that they may shine towards its face. 
And its snuffers and shovels (shall be made) of pure gold. 
Of a talent of pure gold shall he make it and all these vessels. 
And look thou, and make, according to their resemblance which was displayed in the mount. 
