Deuteronomy.
Chapter 26.
And when thou hast entered into the land which the Lord thy God will give thee for possession, and thou inherit and dwell in it, 
Thou shalt take of the first of all the produce of the earth which thou shalt bring up from the land the Lord thy God will give thee, and put it into a basket, and go to the place which the Lord thy God will choose to make His Shekinah to dwell there. 
And thou shalt come unto the priest who will be in those days, and say to him: I profess this day before the Lord thy God, that I have come into the land which the Lord did covenant to our fathers to give them. 
And the priest shall take the basket from thy hand, and lay it down before the altar of the Lord thy God. 
And thou shalt answer and say before the Lord thy God: Laban the Aramite sought to destroy my father, I and he went down to Mizraim, and dwelt there with a few people, but became there a people great and strong. 
But the Mizraee maltreated and afflicted us, and laid hard labour upon us. 
And we prayed before the Lord, the God of our fathers; and the Lord heard our prayer, and our travail, weariness, and oppression were manifest before Him; 
And the Lord brought us out of Mizraim with a mighty hand and uplifted arm, with great visions, signs, and wonders, 
And brought us to this place, and gave us this land, a land producing milk and honey. 
And now, behold, I have brought the firstfruits of the land which Thou, O Lord, hast given me. And thou shalt set it down before the Lord thy God, and worship before the Lord thy God. 
And thou shalt rejoice in all the good which the Lord thy God hath given thee, with the men of thy house, the Levite and the stranger who is among you. 
When thou hast made an end of tithing all the tithe of thy produce in the third year, the year of the tithes, and hast given it to the Levite, the stranger, the orphan, and the widow, that they may eat within thy cities and be satisfied, 
then thou shalt say before the Lord thy God: I have set apart the consecrated tenth from my house, and have given also to the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, according to all Thy commandment which Thou hast commanded me. I have not transgressed Thy commandment, nor been forgetful. 
I have not eaten of it in my mourning, nor exchanged ally of it for what is unclean, nor given of it for the dead. I have been obedient to the Word of the Lord my God, and have done according to all that Thou hast commanded me. 
Look down from the heavens, the habitation of Thy holiness, and bless Thy people Israel, and the land which Thou hast given us, as Thou didst swear to our fathers, a land producing milk and honey. 
This day doth the Lord thy God command thee to do these statutes and judgments, and to keep and perform them with all thy heart, and with all thy soul. 
This day hast thou declared (or avouched) the Lord to be thy God, and to walk in the ways that are right before Him, and to keep His statutes, His commandments, and His judgments, and to be obedient to His word. 
And the Lord hath declared thee this day to be His beloved people, as He hath said unto thee, that thou mayest observe all His commandments, 
And that He may set thee above all the nations whom He hath made, in praise, and in name, and in greatness, and that thou mayest be a holy people before the Lord thy God, as He hath spoken. 
