Exodus.
Chapter 35.
And Mosheli assembled all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and said to them, These are the things which the Lord hath commanded you to do. 
Six days thou shalt do work, but the seventh day (is) a holy rest, the Sabbath before the Lord: everyone who doeth work thereon shall be put to death. 
You may not kindle a fire in all your dwellings on the day of the Sabbath. 
And Mosheh spake to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, saying, 
Take from you a separation (aphrashutha) before the Lord of everyone whose heart may be willing; let him bring the separation before the Lord: gold, and silver, and brass, 
And hyacinth, and crimson, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goat’s hair, 
and ram’s skin dyed red, and purple skins, and sittin woods; 
And oil for the illuminator, and aromatics for the anointing oil, and for the sweet perfumes; 
And onyx stones and complete stones for insetting in the ephod and in the breastplate. 
And all the wise-hearted among you shall come and make all that the Lord hath commanded: 
The tabernacle, its tent and its coverings, its hasps, its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its bases. 
The ark, and its staves, the mercy seat, and the veil that shall be spread; 
The table, and its staves, and all its vessels; and the bread of the Presence, 
and the candelabrum for light, and its vessels, and its lamps, and the oil for illumination. 
And the altar of sweet incense, and its staves, and the oil of anointing, and the incense of perfumes, and the curtain of the door of the tabernacle. 
The altar of burnt offering, and its brasen grate, its staves, and all its vessels; the laver and its base. 
The curtains of the court, and its pillars, and its bases, and the hanging of the gate of the court. 
The nails of the tabernacle, and the nails of the court and their cordings. 
The vestments of ministration for ministering in the sanctuary, the holy vestments of Aharon the priest, and the vestments of his sons for ministration. 
And all the congregation of the sons of Israel went forth from before Mosheh. 
And they came, every man who was led by his heart, and everyone whose spirit was ample, and brought their separation before the Lord, for the work of the tabernacle of ordinance, and for all its service, and for the holy vestments. 
And they came, the men with the women, everyone who was willing of heart, and brought chains, and bracelets, and rings, and bands, all of gold. 
And every man who uplifted an offering of gold before the Lord, and every man with whom was found hyacinth, or purple, or crimson, or fine linen, or goats’ skins, or rams’ skins dyed red, or purpled skins, brought. 
Everyone who would offer silver or brass, brought the separation before the Lord; and everyone with whom was found woods of sittin for any work of the service, brought. 
And every woman wise in heart spun with her hands, and brought what was spun, the hyacinth, the purple, the crimson, and the fine linen. 
And all the women with whom was willingness of heart with wisdom spun goat’s hair. 
And the princes brought onyx stones and complete stones for the insetting of the ephod and the breastplate; 
And the perfume, and oil for the light and for the oil of anointing, and incense of perfumes. 
Every man and woman whose heart led them to bring for all the work which the Lord had commanded to make by Mosheh, did the children of Israel bring willingly before the Lord. 
And Mosheh said to the sons of Israel, See, the Lord hath ordained by mane Bezalel bar Uri bar Hur, of the tribe of Jehudah, 
And hath filled him with the spirit of prophecy from before the Lord, with wisdom, with intelligence, and with knowledge, for all handicraft, 
And to teach the arts of working in gold, and in silver, and in brass, 
And the skilful work of precious stones for enchasing, and the workmanship of wood to work in all the work of the artificer. 
And be hath ingiven in his heart to teach also Ahaliab bar Achisamak, of the tribe of Dan, 
And hath filled them with wisdom of heart to make all the work of the carpenter, and artificer, and embroiderer, in hyacinth, and in purple, and in scarlet, and in fine linen, and the weaver, of (such as) do any work, and who teach the arts. 
