Leviticus.
Chapter 15.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh and to Aharon, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them: When any man hath a defluxion by the running of his flesh, he is unclean. 
And this shall be his uncleanness by his defluxion, when his defluxion floweth form his flesh, or his flesh hath ceased from its flowing, it is (the cause) of his uncleanness. 
Every bed whereon he lieth who hath the defluxion shall be unclean; and anything whereon he sitteth shall be unclean. 
And whoever toucheth his bed shall wash his clothes, bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
And he who sitteth on a thing whereon he who hath the issue hath sat shall wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
And he who toucheth the flesh of him who hath the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until evening. 
And if he who hath the issue spit upon one who is clean, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until evening. 
And any saddle (or carriage) that he who hath the issue may ride upon shall be unclean; 
And whoever toucheth any things that have been under him shall be unclean until evening. 
And whomsoever he who hath the issue toucheth, and hath not rinsed his hands in water, shall wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until evening. 
And every vessel of earthenware which he who hath the issue may have touched shall be broken, and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water. 
And when he who hath had a defluxion shall be cleansed of his issue, he shall number to himself seven days for his purification, and wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in spring water, and be clean. 
And on the eighth day let him take two turtle doves, or two young pigeons, and bring before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, and give them to the priest. 
And the priest shall perform (the offering of) them; one for the sin, and one for the burnt, offering; and the priest shall make atonement for him before the Lord, for his issue. 
And if seed of copulation go out from a man, he shall wash all his flesh with water, and be unclean until evening. 
And any garment or any skin on which may be seed of copulation, shall be washed in water, and be unclean until evening. 
The woman with whom a man shall lie with seed of copulation, they shall bathe themselves with water, and be unclean until evening. 
If a woman have a defluxion of blood in her flesh, seven days shall be for her separation, and whoso toucheth her shall be unclean until evening. 
And everything on which she lieth in her separation shall be unclean, and anything that she sitteth upon shall be unclean. 
And anyone who toucheth her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until evening; 
And anyone who toucheth a thing upon which she hath sat shall was his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until evening. 
And if it be on her bed, or anything on which she hath sat, when he hath touched it, he shall be unclean until the evening. 
And if a man lie with her, and her separation be upon him, he shall be unclean seven days, and any bed whereon he lieth shall be unclean. 
And if a woman hath a defluxion of blood many days beyond the time of her separation, if it run beyond (the time) of her separation, all the days of the issue of her uncleanness shall be as the days of her separation; she shall be unclean. 
Any bed on which she lieth all the days of her defluxion shall be as the bed of her separation, and everything on which she sitteth shall be unclean as the uncleanness of her separation. 
And whoso toucheth them shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until evening. 
But if she be cleansed form her defluxion, then let her number to herself seven days, and afterward she is clean. 
And on the eighth day let her take or herself two turtle doves, or two young pigeons, and bring them to the priest at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance. 
And the priest shall make the one a sin offering, and one burnt offering, and the priest shall atone before the Lord for the issue of her uncleanness. 
And (thus) shall you separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness, that they die not, by defiling My Tabernacle which is among them. 
This is the law for him who hath an issue, or whose seed goeth from him, and who is defiled therewith; 
And of her who hath an issue of separation; and of him who hath a flowing issue, of the male and of the female, and of him who lieth with her who is unclean. 
