Genesis.
Chapter 26.
And there was a famine in the land, besides the former famine that was in the days of Abraham; and Izhak went to Abimelek, king of the Philistaee, to Gerar. 
And the Lord appeared to him and said, Go not down into Mizraim, remain in the land as I have told thee; 
Dwell in this land, and My Word shall be to thee for a helper; and I will bless thee. For to thee and to thy son will I give all these lands; and I will confirm the oath that I have sworn to Abraham thy father; 
And I will multiply thy son as the stars of heaven, and will give thy son all these lands, and through thy son shall all the peoples of the earth be blessed, 
because Abraham obeyed My word, and kept the keeping of My word, My commandments, My covenant, and My law. 
And Izhak dwelt at Gerar; 
and the men of the place asked respecting his wife. And he said, She is my sister; for he feared to say, My wife, lest the men of the place should kill him on account of Revekah; for she was of beautiful aspect. 
And it was when be had been there many days that Abimelek the king of the Philistaee looked from a window, and, behold, Izhak was sporting with Revekah his wife. 
And Abimelek called Izhak and said, Nevertheless, behold, she is thy wife: why then hast thou said, She is my sister? And Izhak said to him, Because I said, Lest I be killed on account of her. 
And Abimelek said, What is this that thou hast done to us? It might have been that some one of the people had lain with thy wife, and thou wouldst have brought upon us the guilt. 
And Abimelek commanded all the people saying, Whoever injureth this man shall surely be put to death. 
And Izhak sowed in the land, and found in that year a hundred fold on that which he had expended, (or estimated,) and the Lord blessed him; 
And the man increased, and went on multiplying and increasing, until he had increased greatly. 
And he had flocks of sheep, and herds of cattle, and many servants; and the Philistaee were envious of him. 
And all the wells that the servants of his father had digged in the days of Abraham the Philistaee stopped up, and filled with dust. 
And Abimelek said to Izhak, Go from us; for thou art much stronger than we. 
And Izhak went thence, and sojourned in the vale of Gerar, and dwelt there. 
And Izhak returned, and digged the well of water which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father, and which the Philistaee had stopped after the death of Abraham; and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them. 
And the servants of Izhak digged in the valley, and found there a well of flowing waters. 
And the shepherds of Gerar strove with the shepherds of Izhak, saying, The water is ours; and he called the name of the well Contention, because they had contended with him. 
And they digged another well, and they strove also on account of it, and he called the name of it Hatred. 
And he went up from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it Spaciousness. For he said, Because now hath the Lord enlarged us, and we shall spread abroad in the land. 
And he went up from thence to Beer Shava; 
and the Lord appeared to him in the night, and said, I am the God of Abraham thy father; fear not: for in thy help is My Word; and I will bless thee, and will multiply thy sons for the sake of Abraham My servant. 
And he builded there an altar, and prayed in the name of the Lord. And he spread there his tabernacle; and the servants of Izhak digged there a well. 
And Abimelek came to him from Gerar, and a company of his friends, and Phikol the chief of his host. 
And Izhak said to him, Why have you come to me, when you have hated me, and sent me from you? 
And they said, Seeing we have seen that the Word of the Lord is for thy help; and we have said, Let the oath which was between our fathers be now confirmed between us and thee, and let us enter into a covenant with thee, 
that thou do us no evil, as we have not injured thee, and as we have done thee only good, and we will leave thee in peace; thou art now blessed of the Lord. 
And he made them a feast, and they ate and drank. 
And they arose in the morning and covenanted, each man with his brother; and Izhak dismissed them, and they went from him in peace. 
And it was in that day that the servants of Izhak came and showed him concerning the well that they had digged. And they said to him, We have found water. 
And he called it Sheva, (the swearing). Wherefore the name of the city is Beer-sheva unto this day. 
And Esau was the son of forty years, and he took to wife Jehudith, daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Basemath, daughter of Elon the Hittite; 
And they were rebels and irritators against the word of Izhak and Revekah. 
