Exodus.
Chapter 6.
But the Lord said to Mosheh, Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharoh: for with a strong hand shall he send them away, and with a strong hand drive them from his land. 
And the Lord spake to Mosheh and said to him, I am the Lord; 
And I appeared unto Abraham and to Izhak and to Jakob by (the name) EI-Shaddai, but by My name Jehovah I was not known to them. 
And also I have confirmed My covenant with them to give them the land of Kenaan, the land of their sojournings in which they sojourned. 
And before Me hath been heard the cry of the sons of Israel whom the Mizraee make to labour for them; and I have remembered My covenant. 
Therefore, say thou to the sons of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from the midst of the sore labour for the Mizraee, and will deliver you from their servitude, and redeem you with a lofty arm and with great judgments. 
And I will bring you nigh before Me to be a people, and I will be unto you a God; and you shall know that I am the Lord your God who bringeth you out from the sore Mizrean bondage. 
And I will lead you into the land which I have sworn in My Word to give to Abraham, to Izhak, and to Jakob; and to you will I give it for an inheritance; I am the Lord. 
And Mosheh so spake with the sons of Israel: but they received not from Mosheh through anguish of spirit, and from the labour which was hard upon them. 
And the Lord spake to Mosheh, saying, 
Go in, speak with Pharoh king of Mizraim, that he send away the sons of Israel from his land. 
And Mosheh spake before the Lord, saying, Behold, the sons of Israel have not received from me, and how then will Pharoh receive, and I (so) heavy of speech? 
And the Lord spake to Mosheh and Aharon, and gave them commandment to the sons of Israel and unto Pharoh king of Mizraim for the going forth of the sons of Israel from the land of Mizraim. 
These are the heads of the house of their fathers. The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel, Hanuk and Phalli, Hetsron and Karmi; these are the progeny of Reuben. 
And the sons of Shimeon, Yemuel and Yamin and Achad and Yakin and Zochar and Shaul the son of a Kenaanitha; these are the progeny of Shimeon. 
And these are the names of the sons of Levi, according to their generations: Gershon and Kehath and Merari. And the years of the life of Levi were a hundred and thirty and seven years. 
The sons of Gerson, Libni and Shimei, after their progenies. 
And the sons of Kehath. Amram and Izhar and Hebron and Uzziel. And the years of the life of Kehath, a hundred and thirty and three years. 
And the sons of Merari, Maheli and Mushi. These are the progenies of Levi, after their generations. 
And Amram took Yokebed the sister of his father unto him to wife, and she bare him Aharon and Mosheh. And the years of the life of Amram were an hundred and thirty and seven years. 
And the sons of Izhar, Korah and Nepheg and Zikri. 
And the sons of Uzziel, Mishael and Elzaphan and Sithri. 
And Aharon took Elisheba the daughter of Aminadab the sister of Nachshon to him to wife; and she bare him Nadab and Abihu, Elazar and Ithamar. 
And the sons of Korah, Asir and Elkanah and Abiasaph: these are the progeny of Korah. 
And Elazar the son of Aharon took (one) of the daughters of Phutiel to himself to wife, and she bare him Pinhas. These are the chiefs of the fathers of the Levaee, according to their generations. 
It is Aharon and Mosheh, to whom the Lord had said, Bring forth the sons of Israel from the land of Mizraim by their armies. 
These are they who spake with Pharoh king of Mizraim to let the sons of Israel go forth from Mizraim: it is Mosheh and Aharon. 
And it was in the day when the Lord spake with Mosheh in the land of Mizraim, 
That the Lord spake unto Mosheh, saying, I am the Lord: Speak with Pharoh king of Mizraim all that I have said to thee. 
But Mosheh said before the Lord, Behold, I am heavy of speech, and how will Pharoh receive from me? 
