Deuteronomy.
Chapter 6.
And this is the commandment, (these are) the statutes and the judgments, which the Lord your God hath commanded (me) to teach you to perform in the land to which you go over to possess it, 
That thou mayest fear before the Lord thy God, and keep all His statutes and His commandments which I command thee; thou, thy sons, and thy sons’ son, all the days of thy life, that thy days may be prolonged. 
And thou, Israel, shalt receive, and keep, and perform, that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest increase greatly, as the Lord God of thy fathers bath said to thee, (in) the land which produceth milk and honey. 
HEAR, ISRAEL; THE LORD OUR GOD IS ONE LORD: 
And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy substance. 
And these words that command thee this day shall be upon thy heart. 
And thou shalt deliver them to thy children, and talk of them when thou art sitting in thy house, and when thou goest in the way, and in thy lying down, and thy rising up. 
And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thy hand, and they shall be for tephillin between thine eyes; 
And thou shalt write them upon the doorposts, and affix them to the lintels of thy house, and upon thy gates. 
And it shall be, when the Lord thy God will have brought thee into the land which He covenanted to thy fathers, to Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, to give thee great and goodly cities which thou buildedst not, 
And houses full of goods that thou didst not fill, and cisterns hewn which thou hewedst not, vineyards and olive trees which thou didst not plant, and thou have eaten and be full; 
Beware, lest thou forget the fear of the Lord who brought thee out from the land of Mizraim, from the house of bondage. 
Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God, and serve before Him, and swear by His Name. 
You shall not go after the idols of the Gentiles, the idols of the peoples who surround you 
(for the Lord thy God is a jealous God, His Shekinah dwelleth in the midst of thee,) lest the anger of the Lord thy God be kindled against thee, and He destroy thee from off the face of the earth. 
You shall not tempt the Lord your God as you tempted Him in the temptation: 
Keeping you shall keep the commandments of the Lord your God, His testimonies, and His statutes He hath commanded thee, 
and do what is right and well ordered before the Lord, that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest enter ill and possess the good land which the Lord sware unto thy fathers 
to break all thy enemies before thee, as He hath said. 
When thy son shall ask thee in time to come, (mehar, tomorrow,) saying, What are the testimonies, statutes, and judgments, which the Lord our God hath commanded you? 
Then thou shalt say, We were servants to Pharoh in Mizraim; and the Lord brought us out of Mizraim with a mighty hand, 
and put forth miracles great and sore upon Pharoh, and all the men of his house, before our eyes; 
And He brought us out from thence, to bring us in, to give us the land which He sware to our fathers. 
And the Lord commanded us to perform all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God, that all days it may be well with us, (and) that He may preserve us alive as at this day. 
And it shall be our righteousness to observe to do all these commandments before the Lord our God, as He hath commanded us. 
