Numbers.
Chapter 34.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Command the sons of Israel, and say to them: When you have entered into the land of Kenaan, that land which shall be divided to you for a possession, the land of Kenaan by its coasts, 
Then your south border shall be from the wilderness of Zin on the frontier of Edom, and your south border shall be from the extremities of the Sea of Salt eastward. 
And your border shall turn from the south to the going up of Akrabbim, and shall pass over to Zin; and the going out of it shall be from the south unto Rekem Giah, and go on to Hazar-Adar, and pass over to Azemon. 
And the border shall turn from Azemon to the stream of Mizraim, and its goings out shall be toward the west (Heb. the sea). 
And for the western border you shall have the Great Sea; this shall be your western border. 
And this shall be your northern border: from the Great Sea you shall appoint for you Mount Hor; 
From Mount Hor you shall appoint to the entrance of Hamath, and the goings forth of the border shall be unto Zedad. 
And the border shall be unto Zaphron, and its goings forth to Ezarenan; this shall be your north border. 
And you shall appoint your eastern border from Ezarenan to Shepham; 
And the border shall go down from Shepham unto Riblah, eastward of the fountain, and the border shall go down and come to the bank of the Sea of Genesar on the east. 
And the border shall go down to the Jordan, and its going out be at the Sea of Salt. This shall be your land with its confines round about. 
And Mosheh commanded the sons of Israel, saying: This shall be the land which you are to possess by lot, which the Lord hath commanded to give to the nine tribes and to the half tribe. 
For the tribe of the Beni Reuben by the house of their fathers, and the tribe of the Beni Gad by the house of their fathers, and the half tribe of Menasheh, have received their inheritance. 
The two tribes and the half tribe have received their inheritance across the Jordan by Jericho towards the east. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
These are the names of the men who shall apportion the land to you: Elazar the priest, and Jehoshua bar Nun. 
And you shall take of each tribe one prince to apportion the land, 
and these are the names of the men: of the tribe of Jehudah, Kaleb bar Jephuneh; 
of the tribe of the Beni Shemeon, Shemuel bar Ammihud; 
of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad bar Kiselon; 
of the tribe of the Beni Dan, Rabba Bokki bar Jagli; 
of the Beni-Joseph, of the tribe of the Beni Menasheh, Rabba Haniel bar Ephod; 
of the tribe of the Beni-Ephraim, Rabba Kemuel bar Shiphtan; 
of the tribe of the Beni Zebulon, Rabba Elizaphan bar Parnak; 
of the tribe of the Beni Issakar, Rabba Peltiel bar Ezar; 
And of that of the Beni Asher, Rabba Ahihud bar Shelomi; 
and of that of the Beni Naphtali, Rabba Phadael bar Ammihud. 
These are they whom the Lord commanded to divide the inheritance of the children of Israel in the land of Kenaan. 
