Numbers.
Chapter 10.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Make thee two trumpets of silver, beaten shalt thou make them, and they shall be for thee to convoke the assembly, and to move forward the host. 
And they shall blow with them, and bring all the congregation together unto thee, at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance. 
And if they blow with but one, the chiefs, the heads of thousands of Israel, shall gather together to thee. 
When you blow with a full note, (or alarm,) the host that encampeth eastward shall go forward, 
and when you blow with the second alarm, the hosts that encamp southward shall go on; an alarm shall they blow for their journeys. 
But when the congregation is to be gathered together, you shall blow, but not with the alarm. 
And the sons of Aharon, the priests, are to blow with the trumpets; and this shall be to you a perpetual statute for your generations. 
And when you enter upon the battle fight for your country, with the oppressors who oppress you, ye shall blow the alarm with the trumpets, that your remembrance may come for good before the Lord your God, (and) that you may be delivered from them who hate you. 
And on the day of your rejoicing, and on your solemnities, and at the beginning of your months, ye shall blow with the trumpets over your burnt offerings, and over your consecrated victims; and they shall be for a memorial before your God: I am the Lord your God. 
And it was in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, that the Cloud was uplifted from above the Tabernacle of the Testimony, 
And the children of Israel went forward upon their journeys from the wilderness of Sinai; and the Cloud rested in the wilderness of Pharan. 
And they went forward at the first by the Word of the Lord through Mosheh. 
In the first place the standard of the camp of the Beni Jehudah went forward by their hosts; and over the host was Nachshon bar Aminadab. 
And over the host of the tribe of the Beni Issakar, Nethanel bar Zuar. 
And over the host of the tribe of the Beni Zebulun, Eliab bar Chelon. 
And the tabernacle was taken down, and the sons of Gershon went forward, and the sons of Merari, carrying the tabernacle. 
And the standard (or order) of the camp of Reuben went forward by their hosts, and over its host was Elizur bar Shedeur: 
And over the host of the tribe of the Beni Shemeun was Shelumiel bar Zurishaddai. 
And over the host of the Beni Gad was Eljasaph bar Dehuel. 
And the sons of Kehath went forward, carrying the sanctuary, and (the Gershonites and sons of Merari) set up the tabernacle against they came. 
And the standard of the camps of the Beni-Ephraim went forward by their hosts, and over his host was Elishama bar Amihud. 
And over the host of the tribe of the Beni Menasheh was Gamliel bar Phedazur. 
And over the host of the tribe of the Beni Benyamin, Abidan bar Gideoni. 
And the standard of the camps of the Beni Dan went forward collecting each camp according to their hosts; and over his host was Achiezer bar Amishaddai. 
And over the host of the tribe of the Beni Asher, Phagiel bar Akran; 
And over the host of the tribe of the Beni Naphtali, Achira bar Enan. 
These are the journeys of the sons of Israel, and according to their hosts they went forward. 
And Mosheh said unto Hobab bar Reuel, the Midianite, the father-in-law of Mosheh, We are journeying to the place of which the Lord hath said, I will give it unto you: come thou with us, and we will do thee good; for the Lord hath spoken, to bring good upon Israel. 
But he said to him, I will not go (with you), but to my country and to my kindred will I go. 
And he said, Leave us not, I beseech thee; for thou knowest how we should encamp in the wilderness; and the great things that will be done for us thou wilt see with thine eyes. 
And it shall be that if thou wilt go with us, with the good by which the Lord shall do us good, will we do good to thee. 
And from the mountain on which the glory of the Lord had been revealed they went forward, journeying three days; and the ark of the Lord’s covenant went before them, three days’ journey, to provide for them a place of encampment. 
And the Cloud of Glory of the Lord overspread them by day as they went forth from their encampments. 
And when the ark went forward, Mosheh said: Reveal thyself, O Lord, that Thine enemies may be scattered, and Thy adversaries may flee before thee. 
And when it rested, he said: Return, O Lord, and dwell in Thy glory among the multitudes of the thousands of Israel. 
