Genesis.
Chapter 45.
And Joseph was not able to sustain all that was being upon him; and he cried, Let every man go out from me; and no man stood with him, while Joseph made himself known to his brethren. 
And he gave forth his voice with weeping; and the Mizraee heard, and a man of Pharoh’s house heard. 
And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph! Is my father yet living? And his brethren were not able to answer him a word, for they were confounded before him. 
And Joseph said to his brothers, Come near now to me. And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom you sold into Mizraim. 
And now do not be troubled, and let it not be afflictive in your eyes that you sold me hither; for to sustain life did the Lord send me before you. 
For these two years hath famine been in the land, and there are yet five years in which there will be neither seed nor harvest. 
And the Lord sent me before you to set a remnant in the earth, and to keep you alive by a great deliverance. 
And now, it was not you who sent me hither, but (it was) from before the Lord, who hath set me to be a father unto Pharoh, and to rule all the men of his house, holding power over all the land of Mizraim. 
Hasten, (then,) and go up to my father, and say to him, Thus saith thy son Joseph, The Lord hath set me ruler over the Mizraim: come down to me, delay not, 
And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and be near me, thou, and thy sons, and thy sons’ children, and thy sheep and thy oxen, and all that thou hast. 
And I will nourish thee there; for there are yet five years of famine, lest thou, and the men of thy house, and all that thou hast, be wasted away. 
And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that in your language I speak with you. 
And you will show my father all my glory in Mizraim, and all that you see; and make haste, and bring down my father hither. 
And he fell upon the neck of Benjamin his brother, and wept; and Benjamin wept upon his neck. 
And he kissed all his brothers, and wept over them; and afterward his brothers discoursed with him. 
And a voice was heard in the house of Pharoh, saying, The brothers of Joseph are come. And it was pleasing in the eyes of Pharoh, and in the eyes of his servants. 
And Pharoh said to Joseph, Tell my brethren, Do this; lade your beasts and go; carry into the land of Kenaan; 
and take your father and the men of your house and come to me, and I will give you the good of the land of Mizraim, and you shall eat the good of the land. 
And (now) thou art commanded, this do. Take to you out of the land of Mizraim waggons for your children, and your wives; and bring your father, and come. 
And let not your eye look wistfully upon your furniture; for the good of all the land of Mizraim is your own. 
And the sons of Israel did so; and Joseph gave them waggons, according to the word of Pharoh, and he gave them provisions for the way. 
And he gave to everyone of them vestments for wearing; and to Benjamin gave he three hundred shekels of silver, and five vestments for wearing. 
And to his father he sent ten asses laden with the good things of Mizraim, and ten she-asses laden with corn, and bread and provisions for the way. 
And he dismissed his brethren, and they went, and he said to them, Do not contend by the way. 
And they went up from Mizraim and came into the land of Kenaan, unto Jakob their father. 
And they showed him, saying, Joseph is yet alive, and he ruleth over all the land of Mizraim! And these words were uncertain upon his heart, because he did not believe them. 
And they told him all the words of Joseph which he had spoken with them; and he saw the waggons that Joseph had sent to fetch him; and the Holy Spirit rested upon Jakob their father. 
And Israel said, Great to me is the joy! Joseph my son is yet alive; I will go, and behold him before I die. 
