Exodus.
Chapter 37.
And Bezalel made the ARK of sittin woods; two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height. 
And he covered it with pure gold within and without, and made for it a wreath of gold round about. 
And he cast for it four rings of gold upon its four corners, two rings on one of it, and two rings on the second side. 
And he made staves of sittin wood, and covered them with gold. 
And he introduced the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, for carrying the ark. 
And he made the MERCY SEAT of pure gold; two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth. 
And he made two kerubim, of beaten gold he made them, at the two sides of the mercy seat. 
One keruba on this side, and one keruba on that side of the mercy seat; he made the kerubaia from its two sides. 
And the kerubaia spread out their wings above, overshadowing the mercy seat with their wings; and their faces were one towards the other, over against the mercy seat were the faces of the kerubaia. 
And he made the TABLE of sittin woods; two cubits its length, and a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height. 
And he covered it with pure gold, and made for it a golden crown round about, 
And made for it a rim its height a span, round about; and he made a crown of gold for its rim round about. 
And he cast for it four golden rings, and set the rings upon the four corners of its four feet. 
Over against the rim were the rings to be the place of the staves for carrying the table. 
no translation 
And he made the vessels which were to be upon the table; its dishes, and its vases, and its measures, and the cups with which (the libations) are outpoured, of pure gold. 
And he made the CANDELABRUM of pure gold, beaten made he the candelabrum, its rest, its shaft, its cups, its apples, and its lilies were of the same. 
And six branchlets proceeded from its sides; three branchlets of the candelabrum on one side, and three branchlets of the candelabrum on the second side. 
Three cups figurated on one branchlet, an apple, and a lily: so the six branchlets which proceeded from the candelabrum. 
And on the candelabrum four cups figurated, its apples and its lilies. 
An apple under two branchlets of the same, and an apple under two branchlets of the same, and an apple under two branchlets of the same, for the six branchlets that proceeded from it. 
Their apples and their branches were of the same, all of one beaten work of pure gold. 
And he made its seven lamps, and its snuffers, and its receivers of pure gold; 
of a talent of pure gold made he, it, and all its vessels. 
And he made the ALTAR OF SWEET INCENSE of sittin wood; its length a cubit, and a cubit its breadth, foursquare. And two cubits the height of it; of the same were its horns. 
And he overlaid it with pure gold, its top and its sides round about, and its horns: and he made for it a golden crown round about. 
And two rings of gold made he for it under its crown, upon its two sides, the place for the staves by which to carry it. 
And he made the staves of sittin wood, and overlaid them with gold. 
And he made the oil for holy anointment, and the pure sweet incense, the work of the perfumer. 
