Deuteronomy.
Chapter 30.
And it will be that when all these words of blessings or of maledictions which I have set before thee have come upon thee, and thou turn unto thy heart among all the nations whither the Lord thy God will have led thee captive, 
and return to the fear of the Lord thy God, and obey His Word, according to all that I command thee this day, thou and thy children, with all thy heart and all thy soul, 
that the Lord thy God will turn thy captivity, and have mercy upon thee, and will return, and gather thee from all the nations among which the Lord thy God hath dispersed thee. 
If any of thy dispersed be (scattered) unto the ends of the heavens, from thence will the Lord thy God gather thee, and lead thee. 
And the Lord thy God will bring thee into the land which thy fathers did inherit, and thou shalt possess it: and he will do thee good, and multiply thee above thy fathers. 
And the Lord thy God will take away the foolishness of thy heart, and the foolishness of thy children’s heart, to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and all thy soul, that thou mayest live. 
And the Lord thy God will put all these curses upon thy enemies and upon them who hated and persecuted thee; 
But thou shalt return and be obedient to the Word of the Lord, and do all the commandments which I command thee this day. 
And the Lord thy God will make thee to abound in all the works of thy hand, the offspring of thy womb, the increase of thy cattle, and the produce of thy land, unto good; for the Lord will return to rejoice over thee for good, as He rejoiced over thy fathers; 
When thou shalt be obedient to the Word of the Lord thy God, to keep His commandments and statutes which are written in the book of this law, if thou return unto the fear of the Lord thy God with all thy heart and all thy soul. 
For this commandment which I command thee this day is not apart from thee, nor is it far away. 
It is not in the heavens, that thou shouldst say, Who shall ascend for us into heaven, that he may bring it to us, that we may hear and do it? 
Nor is it beyond the sea, that thou shouldst say, Who will go over for us beyond the sea, and bring it to us, that we may hear and do it? 
For the word is very nigh thee, in thy mouth and in thy heart, that thou mayest do it. 
Behold, I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil; 
For I command thee this day to love the Lord thy God, to walk in the ways that are right in His presence, and to keep His commandments, statutes, and judgments, that thou mayest live and multiply, and the Lord God may bless thee in the land into which thou art going, to possess it. 
But if thy heart be averse, and thou wilt not obey, but wilt go astray, and worship the idols of the Gentiles, and serve them, 
I have shown you this day that perishing you shall perish. You will not prolong your days upon the land whither thou passest over Jordan to enter in and possess it. 
I call heaven and earth to attest in you this day that I have set before thee life and death, blessings and curses: but choose for life, that thou mayest live, thou and thy children, 
To love the Lord thy God, to be obedient to His word, and to keep close unto His fear, for He is thy life, and the prolonged of thy days, to abide upon the land which the Lord sware to thy fathers, to Abraham, Izhak, and Jakob, to give unto them. 
