Exodus.
Chapter 23.
Thou shalt not take up a false report, nor set thine hand with the wicked to be a false witness for him. 
Thou shalt not follow the many to wickedness, neither shalt thou fail to teach that which in thine eyes is judgment; after the many (majority?) thou shalt fulfil judgment. 
And upon the poor thou shalt not be pitiful in judging him. 
If thou meet the ox of thy enemy, or his ass, wandering away, thou shalt surely bring it back to him. 
When thou seest thine enemy’s ass prostrate beneath his burden, thou shalt forbear from forsaking him; thou shalt surely abandon what is in thy heart against him, and shalt deliver it unto him. 
Thou shalt not warp the judgment of the poor man in his cause. 
From a false matter keep distant; and him who has been acquitted and has come forth from judgment uncondemned thou shalt not kill; for I will not justify the guilty. 
And thou art not to receive a bribe; for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise, and perverts the words of the just. 
And thou shalt not distress the sojourner; for you know the mind of a sojourner; for you were dwellers in the land of Mizraim. 
Six years thou shalt sow the land and gather in its produce, 
but the seventh year thou shalt let it alone and suffer it to rest, that the poor of thy people may eat, and what they leave the beast of the field may eat. So also shalt thou do with thy vineyard and with thy olive ground. 
Six days shalt thou do thy work, and in the seventh day have rest, that thy ox and thy ass may rest, and the son of thine handmaid and thy sojourner may be quiet. 
And of all that I have spoken to you be mindful, and the name of the idols of the Gentiles remember not; let it not be heard upon thy lips. 
Three times thou shalt solemnize festival before Me in the year. 
Thou shalt keep the festival of unleavened bread. Seven days shalt thou eat unleavened cake, as I have commanded thee, in the time of the moon of Abiba, for therein you went forth from Mizraim; and you shall not appear before Me empty. 
And the festival of harvest, the firstfruits of thy labours which thou hast sowed in thy fields; and the festival of gathering, at the end of the year when thou gatherest in thy labours from the field. 
Three times in the year shall all thy males appear before the Lord, the Ruler of the world. 
Thou shalt not offer with unleavened bread the blood of My pascha, neither shall the fat of the sacrifice of the feast remain without on the altar until morning. 
The beginning of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring into the sanctuary of the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not eat flesh with milk. 
Behold, I send My Angel before thee, to protect thee in the way, and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared. 
Take heed before Him, and hearken to His words; rebel not against Him, for He will not forgive your sins; for in My Name are His words. 
For if thou wilt truly hearken to His words, and do all that I shall speak, I will be a foe to thy enemies, and will afflict them that afflict thee. 
For My Angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in, to the Amoraee and Hittaee, and Perizaee and Kenaanaee, Hivaee and Jebusaee; and I will destroy them. 
Thou shalt not worship their idols, nor serve them, nor do according to their doings, but shalt utterly demolish them, and break their images. 
And you shall serve before the Lord your God, and He will bless thy food and thy drink, and will take away grievous evils from among thee. 
There shall be none abortive or barren in thy land; the number of thy days will I complete. 
I will send My terror before thee, and will perturb all the people among whom thou shalt come to fight against them, and I will make all thy adversaries turn their back before thee. 
I will send the hornet before thee, and it shall drive out the Hivaee and Kenaanaee and the Hittaee from before thee. 
I will not expel them before thee in one year, lest the land be made desolate, and the beasts of the field multiply against thee. 
By little and little I will drive them out before thee, until thou shalt be increased and inherit the land. 
And I will appoint thy boundary from the sea of Suph unto the sea of the Philistaee, and from the desert to the river; for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hands, and thou shalt drive them out before thee. 
Thou shalt strike no covenant with them nor with their idols. 
They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they cause thee to commit sin before Me; for if thou serve their idols, it will be a stumbling-block to thee. 
