Leviticus.
Chapter 23.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them: The FESTIVALS of the Lord which you shall convoke as holy convocations, these are My festivals. 
Six days thou shalt do work, but on the seventh day is the rest of the Sabbath; a holy convocation, (in it) you shall do no work. It is a Sabbath before the Lord in all your dwellings. 
These are the festivals of the Lord, holy convocations which you shall convoke in their seasons. 
In the first month, on the fourteenth of the month, between the suns, is the Pascha before the Lord, 
and on the fifteenth day of this month is the feast (chagga) of unleavened cakes before the Lord; seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. 
In the first day you shall have a holy convocation; no laborious work shall you do; 
But you shall offer an oblation before the Lord seven days; in the seventh day there shall be a holy convocation; no laborious work may you do. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheb, saving: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them: When you have entered into the land that I will give unto you, and you reap its harvest, you shall bring an omera of the first of your harvest unto the priest, 
And he shall uplift the omera before the Lord to be accepted for you: after the day of the festivity (yoma taba) shall the priest uplift it. 
And you shall perform on the day of your elevation of the omera (the sacrifice of) an unblemished lamb of the year, as a burnt offering before the Lord. 
And the mincha thereof shall be two-tenths of flour mingled with oil, an oblation to be accepted before the Lord; and its libation, wine, the fourth of a hin. 
Neither bread, nor parched corn, nor green ears shall you eat until this day when you bring the oblation of your God; an everlasting statute unto your generations in all your dwellings. 
And count to you, after the festival day, from the day that you brought the omera of the elevation, seven weeks, complete shall they be. 
Until the (day) after the seventh week number fifty days, and (then) offer a new mincha before the Lord. 
Bring from your dwellings two loaves for an elevation, two cakes, of two-tenths of flour shall they be, baked with leaven, as firstfruits before the Lord. 
And with the bread you shall offer seven unblemished lambs of the year, one young bullock, and two rams; they shall be a burnt offering before the Lord, with their mincha and their libation, to be received with acceptance before the Lord. 
And you shall make one of the goats (a sacrifice) for a sin offering, and two lambs of the year for consecrated offerings. 
And the priest shall uplift them with the bread of the firstfruits an elevation before the Lord; with the two lambs they (the loaves) shall be consecrated before the Lord for the priest. 
And on this same day you shall proclaim (that) it shall be a holy convocation to you. Ye shall do no work of labour. (This is) an everlasting statute in all your dwellings unto your generations. 
And when you reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not entirely finish the corner of thy field in thy reaping, nor shalt thou gather up the gleanings of thy harvest; for the poor and for the stranger thou shalt leave them: I am the Lord your God. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, saying: In the seventh month you shall have a (season of) Rest; a memorial of the Trumpet, a holy convocation; 
No work of labour shall you do, but offer an oblation before the Lord. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
But on the tenth day of this seventh month shall be the Day of Atonement (Yoma de Kippuraia, the Day of Expiations); a holy convocation you shall have, and afflict (or humble) your souls and offer the oblation before the Lord. 
And NO WORK may you do on that same day, for it is the Day of Atonement, to make an atonement for you before the Lord your God. 
For every man who will not humble himself on that same day, shall be cut off from his people. 
And any man who doeth any work oil that same day, I will destroy that man from among his people. 
No work shall you do: an everlasting statute unto your generations, in all your dwellings. 
A Sabbath of rest shall it be to you, and ye shall humble your souls, on the ninth of the month at evening: from evening to evening you shall rest your rest. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel saying: On the fifteenth day of this seventh month (shall be) the Feast of Bowers, seven days before the Lord. 
On the first day a holy convocation; no work of labour may you do. 
Seven days you shall offer oblations before the Lord; on the eighth day you shall have a holy convocation, and offer an oblation before the Lord. You shall be gathered together; no work of labour may you do. 
These are the Festivals of the Lord which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an oblation before the Lord, a burnt sacrifice, and a mincha, and a consecrated offering and libations (according to) the directory of the day, on its day. 
Beside (or except) the Sabbaths of the Lord, and beside your gifts, and beside all your vows, and beside all your free-will offerings which you present before the Lord. 
Also on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the produce of the ground, you shall solemnize a feast of the Lord seven days. On the first day there shall be rest, and on the eighth day rest. 
And you shall take to you on the first day the fruit of the orange (or citron) tree, and branches of palms, and myrtles, and willows of the brook, and rejoice before the Lord your God seven days. 
And solemnize it, a feast before the Lord, seven days in the year; it is an everlasting statute unto your generations; in the seventh month shall you solemnize it. 
In bowers shall you dwell seven days; everyone who is native-born in Israel shall dwell (or sit) in the bowers: 
That your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell under the shadow of clouds when I brought them foorth from the land of Mizraim: I am the Lord your God. 
And Mosheh declared the order of the Festivals of the Lord, and taught them to the sons of Israel. 
