Exodus.
Chapter 15.
Then sang Mosheh and the children of Israel this hymn before the Lord; and they spake, saying, We will sing and give thanks before the Lord, because He is magnified upon the mighty, and the power is His own; the horse and his rider hath He cast into the sea. 
My strength and my song is the terrible Lord; He hath said by His Word that He will be mine to redeem This is my God, and I will build Him a sanctuary; the God of my fathers, and I will worship before Him. 
The Lord is the Lord of Victory in battles, the Lord is His Name. 
The chariots of Pharoh and his horses He hath cast into the sea, his chosen warriors are drowned in the sea of Suph. 
The depths covered them over, they went down to the bottom as a stone. 
Thy right hand, O Lord, is illustrious in power; Thy right hand, O Lord, shattereth the adversary; 
And in the greatness of Thy might Thou hast broken down them who arose against Thy people. Thou didst send forth Thy wrath, and it consumed them as stubble in the flame, 
and by the word of Thy mouth the waters, (as if) wise, stood up like a wall; the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea. 
The adversary said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil; my soul shall be satisfied upon them; I will draw my sword, and my hand shall destroy them. 
Thou didst speak by Thy Word, the sea covered them over, they sank like lead in the mighty waters. 
There is none beside Thee, 0 God, (who art) glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders. 
Thou didst uplift Thy right hand, the earth swallowed them up. 
Thou hast led forth in goodness Thy people whom Thou hast redeemed; Thou wilt bring them by Thy strength to the dwelling of Thy holiness. 
The nations will hear it, and be moved; terror will seize on the inhabiters of Pelasheth; 
Then will the princes of Edom be alarmed, the strong ones of Moab will be seized with trembling and they who dwell in Kenaan will be broken down. 
Fear and dread will fall upon them, by the greatness of Thy power they will be silent as a stone, until Thy people, O Lord, pass over Arnona, until Thy people whom Thou hast redeemed pass over Jardena. 
Thou wilt bring them in, and cause them to dwell in the mountain of Thine inheritance, in the place which Thou hast ordained for the house of Thy Shekina, the sanctuary which Thy hands, O Lord, have prepared. 
The kingdom of the Lord endureth forever, and forever, evermore! 
Because, when the horses of Pharoh with his chariots and his horsemen had entered into the sea, the Lord caused the waters of the sea to return upon them, and the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of the sea. 
And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aharon, took the timbrel in her hand, and all the women went out after her with timbrels and choruses. 
And Miriam answered them: Sing and give thanks before the Lord, for He hath magnified Himself upon the proud: and the majesty belongeth (only) unto Him; the horse and his rider hath He cast into the sea. 
And Mosheh caused Israel to remove from the sea of Suph, and they went forth into the desert of Chagra, and went three days in the desert, but found no water. 
And they came to Marah, and could not drink the waters of Marah because they were bitter; therefore he called the name of it Marah. 
And the people were fretful against Mosheh, saying, What shall we drink? 
And he prayed before the Lord; and the Lord instructed him (in the properties of) a tree, and he cast it into the waters, and the waters became sweet. There decreed He a statute, and a judgment, and there He tried him. 
And He said, If hearkening thou wilt hearken unto the Word of the Lord thy God, and wilt do what is right in His eyes, and wilt listen to His precepts and keep all His statutes, none of the maladies which I have set upon Mizraim will I put upon thee; for I am the Lord thy Healer. 
And they came to Elim, and there were twelve wells of water and seventy palm trees; and they encamped there before the waters. 
