Numbers.
Chapter 25.
But Israel abode in Shittin; and the people began to commit whoredom with the daughters of Moab; 
And they invited the people to the sacrifices of their idols, and the people did eat and bowed down to their idols. 
And Israel was joined unto Baala Pheor, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. 
And the Lord said unto Mosheh: Take all the chiefs of the people, and judge, and slay him who is guilty of death before the Lord, over against the sun, that the fierce anger of the Lord may be turned away from Israel. 
And Mosheh said to the judges of Israel: Slay every man his men who have joined themselves to Baala Pheor. 
And, behold, a man of the sons of Israel came and brought to his brethren a Midianitha, in the eyes of Mosheh, and in the eyes of all the congregation of the children of Israel, who were weeping at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance. 
And Phinehas bar Elazar bar Aharon the priest saw, and arose from the midst of the congregation, and took a lance in his hand; 
And he went in after the man, the son of Israel, into the tent, and thrust both of them through, the man, the son of Israel, and the woman, through her belly; and the pestilence was stayed from the children of Israel. 
But they who had died by the pestilence were twenty and four thousand. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Phinehas the son of Elazar, the son of Aharon, the priest, hath turned away My anger from the children of Israel, in that he was zealous with My zeal among them; and I have not consumed the children of Israel in My jealousy. 
Say therefore to him (that), behold, I decree unto him My covenant of peace; 
And he shall have it and his sons after him; a covenant of priesthood forever, because he hath been zealous before his God, and hath propitiated for the children of Israel. 
And the name of the man of Israel who was slain with the Midianitess was Zimri bar Salu, a chief of the house of his fathers of the house of Shemeon; 
And the name of the woman, the Midianitess, was Kosbe, the daughter of Zur, who was chief of the people of his father’s house in Midian. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Punish the Midianites and slay them, 
For they afflict you with their snares, with which they ensnare you; as by the occasion of Pheor, and by that of Kosbe, daughter of a prince of Midian, their sister, who was slain on the day of the pestilence in the matter of Pheor. 
And it came to pass after the plague, 
