Exodus.
Chapter 31.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, 
Behold, I have named by name Bezalel bar Uri bar Hur, of the tribe of Jehudah, 
And have fulfilled him with the spirit of prophecy from before the Lord, with wisdom and with intelligence, and with knowledge, and in all work (to excel), 
To Instruct artificers to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, 
And in artisanship of precious stone, to fill in, and in carving of wood, to accomplish all the work. 
And I, behold, have given with him Ahaliab bar Achisamak, of the tribe of Dan; and in the heart of all the wise of heart have I ingiven wisdom, that they may make all that I have commanded thee: 
The tabernacle of ordinance, and the ark of the testimony, and the propitiatory that is upon it, and all the vessels of the tabernacle; 
And the table and its vessels, and the pure candelabrum and all its vessels, and the altar of sweet incense, 
and the altar of burnt offering and all its vessels, and the laver and its foundation. 
And the vestments of ministration, and the holy vestments of Aharon the priest, and the vestments of his sons for ministry; 
And the oil of anointing and the sweet incense for the sanctuary, according to all that I have commanded thee, they shall make. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, 
Speak thou also with the sons of Israel, saying, The days of My Sabbaths ye shall indeed keep; for it is a sign between My Word and you, unto your generations, that ye may know that I am the Lord who sanctifieth you. 
And you shall keep the Sabbath, for it is holy unto you; whosoever profaneth it, dying, he shall die; for whosoever doeth work therein, that man shall be destroyed from among his people. 
Six days shalt thou do work, and the seventh day is Sabbath, the Holy Sabbath before the Lord: whosoever doeth work on the day of the Sabbath, dying, he shall die. 
And the sons of Israel shall keep the Sabbath to fulfil (perform) the Sabbath unto their generations, a statute forever. 
Between My Word and the sons of Israel it is a sign forever for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth; and in the seventh day rested and was refreshed. 
And He gave to Mosheh, when He had finished to speak with him on Mount Sinai, two tablets of the testimony, tablets of stone inscribed with the finger of the Lord. 
