Leviticus.
Chapter 22.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with Aharon and with his sons, and let them keep separate from the consecrated things of the children of Israel, that they profane not the Name of My Holiness which they (are to) sanctify before Me: I am the Lord. 
Say to them, Any man of all the sons of your generations who shall touch the hallowed things which the children of Israel consecrate before the Lord, having his uncleanness upon him, that man shall perish before Me: I am the Lord. 
Any man of Aharon’s offspring who hath leprosy or an unclean effusion shall not eat of the consecrated things until he be clean; and whosoever toucheth any unclean animal, or a man whose seed goeth from him, 
Or a man who toucheth any reptile that maketh him unclean, or a man who maketh him unclean by any of his uncleanness, 
The man who toucheth him shall be unclean until the evening, and may not eat of things consecrated unless he wash his flesh with water. 
But when the sun hath gone down, and he shall have purified himself, he may afterward eat of the hallowed things, for it is his food. 
A carcase which hath been torn he may not eat, to defile himself therewith: I am the Lord. 
But let them keep the keeping of My word, lest they bring guilt upon themselves, and die for it, because they have profaned it, I am the Lord who sanctify them. 
No stranger shall eat of that which is consecrated, neither a sojourner with a priest, or a hireling, may eat of the consecrated thing. 
But if the priest buy a person with a purchase of his money, he may eat of it, and he who hath been born in his house, they may eat of his bread. 
And the daughter of a priest, if she be married to a stranger, may not eat of things set apart and hallowed. 
But if the priest’s daughter be a widow, or divorced, and, having, no child, hath returned to her father’s house, as in her youth, she may eat of her father’s meat; but no stranger shall eat thereof. 
And if a man eat some consecrated thing through ignorance, he shall add a fifth unto it, and give the consecrated thing unto the priest. 
And let them not profane the hallowed things of the children of Israel which are set apart before the Lord, 
nor bring upon themselves iniquities and sins, when they eat in uncleanness the things that are holy. I am the Lord, who sanctify them. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with Aharon, and with his sons, and with all the children of Israel, and say to them: When any man of the sons of Israel, or of the sojourners in Israel, will offer the oblation of any of their vows or any of their free-will oblations which they may offer before the Lord for a burnt sacrifice; 
That it may be acceptable from you, (let it be) a male without blemish, of the bullocks, or of the lambs, or of the goats. 
But whatever hath a blemish in it you shall not offer, for it will not be acceptable for you. 
And if a man present a consecrated victim before the Lord, as a vow set apart, or a free-will offering of the herd or of the flock, it must be perfect, to be acceptable; there shall be no blemish in it. 
Blind, or broken, or mutilated, or having imposthumes, or ulcers, or blotches, these you shall not offer before the Lord, nor of them present an oblation upon the altar before the Lord. 
But a bullock or a lamb that hath anything superfluous or deficient you may make a free-will offering, but for a vow it will not be acceptable. 
And that which is crushed, or rent, or worn out, or emasculated, you shall not offer before the Lord, nor do it in your land. 
Nor from (the hand of) a son of the Gentiles may you offer an oblation to your God of any of these, because their corruption is in them, a blemish is in them; they will not be acceptable for you. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
When a bullock, or lamb, or goat, is brought forth, it shall be seven days with its dam, and on the eighth day and thenceforward it will be acceptable to be offered as an oblation before the Lord. 
Whether it be a cow or ewe, ye shall not immolate (both) her and her offspring on one day. 
And when you present a thank-offering before the Lord, offer it so as to be acceptable for you. 
It is to be eaten on that day, nothing shall remain of it till the morning. I am the Lord. 
And you shall observe My commandments, and do them. I am the Lord. 
Nor shall you profane My holy Name, for I will be hallowed among the sons of Israel. I am the Lord who sanctify you, 
who have led you forth from the land of Mizraim to be unto you Eloha: I am the Lord. 
