Mark.
Chapter 10.
Then He arose from there and came to the region of Judea by the other side of the Jordan. And again crowds came together to Him, and as He was accustomed, He was teaching them. 
And some Pharisees approached and asked Him, “Is it lawful for a husband to put away his wife?” testing Him. 
But answering He said to them, “What did Moses command you?” 
They said, “Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce, and to put her away.” 
And Jesus answered and said to them, “In view of your hardheartedness he wrote this commandment for you. 
But from the beginning of the creation, God ‘made them male and female.’ 
‘For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife,’ 
‘and the two shall become one flesh’; so then they are no longer two, but one flesh. 
Therefore what God has united together, let not man separate.” 
In the house His disciples also asked Him again concerning the same matter. 
So He said to them, “Whoever should put away his wife and marry another commits adultery against her. 
And if a wife should put away her husband and be married to another, she commits adultery.” 
And they were bringing to Him little children, that He might touch them; but the disciples were rebuking those who brought them. 
But when Jesus saw this, He was indignant and said to them, “Allow the little children to come to Me, do not hinder them; for of such is the kingdom of God. 
Assuredly, I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will by no means enter it.” 
And taking them in His arms, laying His hands on them, He blessed them. 
Now as He was going out into the road, one came running up, and having knelt before Him, he asked Him, “Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?” 
So Jesus said to him, “Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One, God. 
You know the commandments: ‘Do not commit adultery,’ ‘Do not commit murder,’ ‘Do not steal,’ ‘Do not bear false witness,’ ‘Do not defraud,’ ‘Honor your father and your mother.’ ” 
And he answered and said to Him, “Teacher, all these I have observed from my youth.” 
Then Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, “One thing you lack: Go, sell all that you have, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, take up the cross, and follow Me.” 
But having become gloomy at this saying, he went away grieving, for he had many possessions. 
And looking around, Jesus said to His disciples, “How difficult it is for those having riches to enter the kingdom of God!” 
And the disciples were astonished at His words. But Jesus, answering again, said to them, “Children, how difficult it is for those who trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God! 
It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter into the kingdom of God.” 
And they were exceedingly astonished, saying among themselves, “Who then is able to be saved?” 
But looking at them Jesus said, “With men it is impossible, but not with God; for all things are possible with God.” 
Then Peter began to say to Him, “See, we have left all things and have followed You.” 
So Jesus answered and said, “Assuredly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or fields, for My sake and for the gospel's, 
who shall not receive a hundredfold now in this time—houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and fields, along with persecutions—and in the age to come, eternal life. 
But many who are first shall be last, and the last first.” 
Now they were on the road, going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going ahead of them; and they were astonished, and as they were following they were afraid. And taking the twelve aside again, He began to tell them the things which were about to happen to Him. 
“Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to the chief priests and to the scribes; and they will condemn Him to death and will deliver Him over to the Gentiles; 
and they will mock Him, and scourge Him, and spit on Him, and kill Him. And on the third day He will rise again.” 
Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to Him, saying, “Teacher, we desire that You to do for us whatever we may ask.” 
And He said to them, “What do you desire Me to do for you?” 
They said to Him, “Grant us that we may sit, one on Your right hand and one on Your left, in Your glory.” 
But Jesus said to them, “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup which I drink, and to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?” 
They said to Him, “We are able.” So Jesus said to them, “You will indeed drink the cup which I drink, and with the baptism with which I am baptized you will be baptized with; 
but to sit on My right hand and on My left is not Mine to give, but to those for whom it has been prepared.” 
And having heard this, the ten began to be indignant with James and John. 
But Jesus, having called them to Himself, said to them, “You know that those being reputed to be ruling the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. 
Yet it will not be so among you; but whoever desires to become great among you shall be your servant. 
And whoever of you desires to be first shall be servant of all. 
For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life a ransom for many.” 
And they came to Jericho. And as He was going out from Jericho along with His disciples and a large crowd, Bartimaeus the blind man, the son of Timaeus, was sitting alongside the road begging. 
And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say, “Jesus, Son of David, have pity on me!” 
And many rebuked him, that he should be silent. But he cried out all the more, “Jesus, Son of David, have pity on me!” 
And having stopped, Jesus asked for him to be called. Then they called the blind man, saying to him, “Have courage, rise up; He is calling you.” 
And casting away his garment, he rose up and came to Jesus. 
So Jesus answered and said to him, “What do you desire that I should do for you?” And the blind man said to Him, “Rabboni, that I may receive sight.” 
Then Jesus said to him, “Go; your faith has healed you.” And immediately he received sight, and he followed Jesus on the road. 
