Matthew.
Chapter 20.
“For the kingdom of heaven is like a certain landowner who went out early in the morning to hire workers for his vineyard. 
And having agreed with the workers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard. 
And going out about the third hour, he saw others standing idle in the marketplace. 
And said to them, ‘You also go into the vineyard, and whatever may be right I will give you.’ So they went. 
Again going out about the sixth and the ninth hour, he did likewise. 
And about the eleventh hour, going out he found others standing idle, and said to them, ‘Why do you stand here idle all day?’ 
They said to him, ‘Because no one has hired us.’ He said to them, ‘You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right you shall receive.’ 
“So when evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, ‘Call the workers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last to the first.’ 
And when those came who were hired about the eleventh hour, they each received a denarius. 
But when the first came, they supposed that they would receive more; and they also received each a denarius. 
And when they had received it, they began grumbling against the landowner, 
saying, ‘These last men have worked only one hour, and you made them equal to us who have borne the burden and the heat of the day.’ 
But he answered one of them and said, ‘Friend, I am not wronging you. Did you not agree with me for a denarius? 
Take what is yours and go. But I want to give to this last man the same as to you. 
Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with my own things? Or is your eye evil because I am good?’ 
Thus the last shall be first, and the first last. For many are called, but few are chosen.” 
And as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, He took aside the twelve disciples privately on the road, and He said to them, 
“Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn Him to death, 
and they will hand Him over to the Gentiles to mock and to scourge and to crucify. And the third day He shall rise again.” 
Then the mother of Zebedee's sons came to Him with her sons, worshiping Him, and asking something from Him. 
And He said to her, “What do you desire?” She said to Him, “Grant that these two sons of mine may sit, one on Your right hand and one on Your left, in Your kingdom.” 
But Jesus answered and said, “You do not know what you ask. Are you able to drink the cup which I am about to drink, or to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?” They said to Him, “We are able.” 
So He said to them, “You will indeed drink My cup, and be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized with; but to sit on My right hand and on My left is not Mine to give, but it is to those for whom it has been prepared by My Father.” 
And when the ten heard it, they were indignant with the two brothers. 
But Jesus, having summoned them, said, “You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. 
Yet it shall not be so among you; but whoever desires to become great among you, shall be your servant. 
And whoever desires to be first among you, let him be your slave; 
just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life as a ransom for many.” 
Now as they went out from Jericho, a great crowd followed Him. 
And behold, two blind men sitting alongside the road, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying, “Have pity on us, O Lord, Son of David!” 
But the crowd warned them that they should be silent; but they cried out all the more, saying, “Have pity on us, O Lord, Son of David!” 
And having stood still, Jesus called them, and said, “What do you desire that I should do for you?” 
They said to Him, “Lord, that our eyes may be opened.” 
And Jesus, having compassion, touched their eyes, and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed Him. 
