Luke.
Chapter 21.
And looking up, He saw the rich putting their gifts into the treasury, 
and He saw also a certain poor widow putting in two mites. 
And He said, “Truly I say to you that this poor widow has put in more than all. 
For all these out of their abundance have put in offerings for God, but she out of her poverty put in all the livelihood which she had.” 
Then, as some spoke about the temple, how it was adorned with beautiful stones and donations, He said, 
“These things which you see—the days will come in which not one stone shall be left upon another that shall not be thrown down.” 
So they asked Him, saying, “Teacher, when will these things be? And what will be the sign when these things are about to happen?” 
And He said: “Take heed that no one deceive you. For many will come in My name, saying, ‘I AM,’ and, ‘The time has drawn near.’ Therefore do not go after them. 
But whenever you hear of wars and insurrections, do not be terrified; for these things must happen first, but the end will not come immediately.” 
Then He said to them, “Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. 
And there will be great earthquakes in various places, and famines and pestilences; and there will be fearful events and great signs from heaven. 
But before all these things, they will lay their hands on you and they will persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and prisons. You will be brought before kings and rulers on account of My name. 
But it shall turn out for you for a testimony. 
Put it then in your hearts not to practice beforehand giving your defense; 
for I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries will not be able to contradict, nor to withstand. 
You will be betrayed even by parents and relatives, friends and brothers; and they will put some of you to death. 
And you will be hated by all people for My name's sake. 
But not a hair of your head shall by any means perish. 
By your patient endurance you shall possess your souls. 
“But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation has drawn near. 
Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, let those who are in the midst of her depart, and let not those who are in the fields enter into her. 
For these are the days of vengeance, to fulfill all that has been written. 
But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing a baby in those days! For there will be great distress in the land and wrath among this people. 
And they will fall by the edge of the sword, and be led away captive into all nations. And Jerusalem will be trampled by Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled. 
“And there shall be signs in the sun, in the moon, and in the stars; and on the earth distress of nations, with perplexity, as the sea and the waves roar, 
men's hearts failing them from fear and the expectation of those things which are coming upon the earth, for the powers of heaven shall be shaken. 
Then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. 
Now when these things begin to happen, look up and lift up your heads, because your redemption draws near.” 
Then He spoke to them a parable: “Look at the fig tree, and all the trees. 
When they are already budding, you see and know for yourselves that summer is now near. 
So you also, when you see these things coming to pass, know that the kingdom of God is near. 
Assuredly I say to you, this generation shall by no means pass away till all things are fulfilled. 
Heaven and earth shall pass away, but My words shall by no means pass away. 
“But take heed to yourselves, lest your hearts be weighed down with carousing, drunkenness, and worries of life, and that Day come upon you unexpectedly. 
For it will come as a snare on all those who live on the face of the whole earth. 
Watch therefore, praying always that you may be counted worthy to escape everything that is about to happen, and to stand before the Son of Man.” 
And in the daytime He was teaching in the temple, but at night He went out and stayed on the mountain called Olivet. 
Then early in the morning all the people came to Him in the temple to hear Him. 
