The Epistle Of Paul To The Romans.
Chapter 1.
Paul, a bondservant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, having been separated unto the gospel of God 
which He promised beforehand through His prophets in the Holy Scriptures, 
concerning His Son, who was descended from David according to the flesh, 
who was declared Son of God with power according to the Spirit of holiness by the resurrection of the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord, 
through whom we received grace and apostleship for the obedience of faith among all the nations for His name, 
among whom you also are the called of Jesus Christ: 
To all those who are in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. 
For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of His Son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers, 
requesting if somehow now at sometime I shall succeed in the will of God to come to you. 
For I long to see you, so that I may impart to you some spiritual gift, that you may be established— 
that is, that I may be encouraged together with you through our mutual faith—both yours and mine. 
Now I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that often I planned to come to you (and I was hindered until now), that I might have some fruit among you also, just as among the other Gentiles. 
I am a debtor both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise. 
So, as much as is in me, I am eager to preach the gospel to you who are in Rome also. 
For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes, both to the Jew first and to the Greek. 
For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith; as it is written, “The just shall live by faith.” 
For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven upon all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. 
Because that which is known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it to them. 
For the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things made, both His eternal power and divinity, so that they are without excuse. 
Because, having known God, they did not glorify Him as God, or give thanks, but became vain in their reasonings, and their foolish heart was darkened. 
Asserting themselves to be wise, they became fools, 
and changed the glory of the incorruptible God for a likeness of an image of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed animals and reptiles. 
Therefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of the own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies among themselves, 
who exchanged the truth of God for the lie, and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. 
For this reason God gave them up to shameful lusts; for even their women exchanged the natural use for that which is contrary to nature, 
and likewise also the men, having forsaken the natural use of the woman, were inflamed by their lust for one another, men with men, committing what is shameful, and receiving in themselves the recompense which was fitting for their error. 
And just as they did not approve to have God in their knowledge, God gave them up to a depraved mind, to do the things which are not fitting; 
having been filled with all unrighteousness, sexual immorality, wickedness, greed, malice; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness; they are whisperers, 
slanderers, haters of God, insolent men, proud, braggarts, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents, 
without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unforgiving, unmerciful; 
who, having known the righteous judgment of God, that those practicing such things are worthy of death, not only do them, but also approve of those who practice them. 
