1 Timothy.
Chapter 6.
Let as many as are slaves under a yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and His doctrine may not be blasphemed. 
And those having believing masters, let them not despise them because they are brothers, but rather let them serve as slaves, because those receiving the good service are believing and beloved. Teach and exhort these things. 
If anyone teaches differently and does not consent to sound words, even those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which accords with godliness, 
he is puffed up, understanding nothing, but is morbidly concerned with disputes and word battles, from which come envy, strife, slanders, evil suspicions, 
constant wranglings of men of corrupt minds and deprived of the truth, supposing that godliness is a means of profit. Withdraw from such people. 
But godliness with contentment is great gain. 
For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain that neither can we carry anything out! 
But having food and clothing, with these things we shall be content. 
But those desiring to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and many senseless and harmful lusts which sink men into destruction and perdition. 
For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, of which some by aspiring have strayed away from the faith in their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. 
You however, O man of God, flee these things. But pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, endurance, gentleness. 
Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold of eternal life, to which you were called and have confessed the good confession before many witnesses. 
I charge you before God who gives life to all things, and before Christ Jesus who witnessed the good confession before Pontius Pilate, 
that you keep this commandment without spot, blameless until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
which He will show in His own time, He who is the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords, 
who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen or is able to see, to whom be honor and everlasting power. Amen. 
Command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty, nor to put their hope on the uncertainty of riches, but in the living God, who provides all things richly for us to enjoy, 
to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous, sharing, 
storing up for yourselves a good foundation for the future, that they may lay hold of eternal life. 
O Timothy! Guard that which was committed to your trust, turning away from the profane and empty babblings and opposing views of what is falsely called “knowledge,” 
which some, by professing expertise, missed the mark concerning the faith. Grace be with you. Amen. 
