Hebrews.
Chapter 6.
Therefore, leaving the subject of the beginning of Christ, let us be moved to perfection, not again laying down a foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God, 
of the doctrine of baptisms, of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment. 
And let us do this if indeed God permits. 
For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit, 
and have tasted the good word of God and the powerful deeds of the age to come, 
and then having fallen away, to renew them again to repentance, since they crucify again for themselves the Son of God, and hold Him up to contempt. 
For the earth which drinks the rain that often falls on it, and bears suitable vegetation for those on account of whom it is cultivated, receives a blessing from God; 
but if it bears thorns and thistles, it is worthless and near to being cursed, of which the end is for burning. 
But we are persuaded concerning you, beloved, of better things and those pertaining to salvation, even though we speak in this manner. 
For God is not unjust to forget your work and labor of love which you have shown toward His name, in that you have ministered to the saints, and do minister. 
But we desire that each one of you show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope until the end, 
lest you become dull, but become imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises. 
For when God made a promise to Abraham, since He could swear by no one greater, He swore by Himself, 
saying, “Surely blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply you.” 
And so, after he had been patient, he obtained the promise. 
For men indeed swear by the greater, and the oath for confirmation is an end of every dispute to them. 
Thus God, wanting to show even more clearly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of His counsel, guaranteed it by an oath, 
in order that through two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we might have strong encouragement, who have fled to take hold of the hope being set before us; 
which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and secure, and which enters into the inner side of the veil, 
where the forerunner has entered on our behalf, even Jesus, having become a High Priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. 
