The First Epistle Of Paul To The Corinthians.
Chapter 1.
Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sosthenes our brother, 
To the church of God which is at Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all those who in every place are calling on the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours: 
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God which was given to you in Christ Jesus, 
that in everything you were enriched by Him in all speech and all knowledge, 
just as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you, 
so that you are not lacking in any gift, eagerly awaiting the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
who will also confirm you until the end, that you may be unimpeachable in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
God is faithful, through whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. 
Now I beseech you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing, and that there be no dissension among you, but that you be made complete in the same mind and in the same opinion. 
For it has been reported to me concerning you, my brothers, by those of Chloe's household, that there is quarreling among you. 
Now this I say, that each of you says, “I am of Paul,” and “I of Apollos,” and “I of Cephas,” and “I of Christ.” 
Has Christ been divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? 
I thank God that I baptized none of you but Crispus and Gaius, 
lest anyone should say that I had baptized in my own name. 
Yes, I also baptized the household of Stephanas. Other than that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else. 
For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not in eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ should be deprived of its power. 
For the preaching of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. 
For it is written: “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the understanding of the prudent I will invalidate.” 
Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the philosopher of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? 
For since, in the wisdom of God, the world through wisdom did not know God, God was well pleased, through the foolishness of preaching, to save those that believe. 
For the Jews ask for signs, and the Greeks seek after wisdom; 
but we preach Christ crucified, to the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness, 
but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. 
Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. 
For you see your calling, brothers, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many powerful, not many noble, are called. 
But God chose the foolish things of the world in order that He might humiliate the wise, and God chose the weak things of the world in order that He might humiliate the mighty. 
And the lowly things of the world, and the despised things God has chosen, and the things which are not, in order that He might nullify the things that are, 
so that no man may boast before God. 
But from Him you are in Christ Jesus, who has become for us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification and redemption; 
that, as it is written, “He that boasts, let him boast in the Lord.” 
