Galatians.
Chapter 4.
Now I say, for as much time as the heir is a minor, he does not differ at all from a slave, though he is master of all, 
but is under guardians and stewards until the time appointed by the father. 
Even so we, when we were minors, were enslaved by the elements of the world. 
But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman, born under the law, 
so that He might redeem those under the law, so that we might receive the adoption. 
And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying out, “Abba, Father!” 
Therefore you are no longer a slave but a son, and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. 
But at one time indeed, when you did not know God, you were slaves to those which by nature were not gods. 
But now, having known God, or rather, having been known by God, how is it that you turn again to the weak and worthless elements, to which once again you wish to be slaves? 
You observe days and months and seasons and years. 
I am afraid for you, lest somehow I have worked hard for you in vain. 
Brothers, I beseech you, become as I am, because I also am as you are. You have not wronged me at all. 
You know that because of weakness in the flesh I preached the gospel to you the former time. 
And my trial which was in my flesh you did not despise nor disdain, but as an angel of God you received me, even as Christ Jesus. 
What then was your blessing? For I bear you witness that, if possible, you would have torn out your own eyes and given them to me! 
Have I therefore become your enemy by speaking the truth to you? 
They are zealous for you in the wrong way; indeed, they wish to shut you out, so that you will be zealous about them. 
But it is good to be zealous in a good thing always, and not only when I am present with you. 
My little children, for whom I labor in birth again until Christ is formed in you! 
And I wanted to be present with you just now and to change my tone; for I am perplexed about you. 
Tell me, you who wish to be under the law, do you not hear the law? 
For it is written that Abraham had two sons: one by the servant girl, and the other by a freewoman. 
But he who was of the servant girl was born according to the flesh, and he of the free woman according to the promise, 
which things are symbolic. For these are two covenants: one in fact from Mount Sinai, bearing children into slavery, which is Hagar— 
for Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and corresponds to the present Jerusalem, and is in slavery with her children— 
but the Jerusalem above is free, which is the mother of us all. 
For it is written: “Rejoice, O barren one, who does not give birth; break forth and shout, you who does not have birth pangs; for the children of the desolate are many more than those of her who has a husband.” 
But we, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise. 
But just as then the one who was born according to the flesh persecuted the one born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. 
But what does the Scripture say? “Cast out the servant girl and her son, for the son of the servant girl shall by no means inherit with the son of the free woman.” 
So then, brothers, we are not children of the servant girl, but of the free woman. 
