Mark.
Chapter 15.
Immediately, in the morning, the chief priests held a consultation, along with the elders and scribes and the whole Sanhedrin; and having bound Jesus, they led Him away, and delivered Him to Pilate. 
Then Pilate asked Him, “Are You the King of the Jews?” And He answered and said to him, “It is as you say.” 
And the chief priests were accusing Him of many things. 
Then Pilate questioned Him again, saying, “Do You answer nothing? See how many things they testify against You!” 
But Jesus no longer answered anything, so that Pilate marveled. 
Now at the feast he would release one prisoner to them, whomever they would request. 
And there was one called Barabbas, having been bound with his fellow rebels, who had committed murder in the rebellion. 
Then the crowd cried out and began to request that just as always he would do this for them. 
But Pilate answered them, saying, “Do you desire that I release to you the King of the Jews?” 
For he knew that because of envy the chief priests had delivered Him up. 
But the chief priests stirred up the crowd, so that he should rather release Barabbas to them. 
But Pilate answered and said to them again, “What then do you desire that I should do with Him whom you call King of the Jews?” 
And again they cried, “Crucify Him!” 
But Pilate said to them, “Why, what evil did He do?” But they cried out all the more, “Crucify Him!” 
So Pilate, wanting to gratify the crowd, released Barabbas to them; and he delivered up Jesus, after he had Him flogged, so that He might be crucified. 
Then the soldiers led Him away into the courtyard, which is the Praetorium, and assembled the whole garrison. 
And they clothed Him with purple; and they twisted a crown of thorns, and they put it around His head, 
and they began to salute Him, “Hail, King of the Jews!” 
And they were striking His head with a reed and were spitting on Him; and bowing the knee, they mockingly worshiped Him. 
And when they had mocked Him, they stripped Him of the purple, and dressed Him in His own clothing. And they led Him out so that they might crucify Him. 
And they pressed into service a certain man that was passing by named Simon, a Cyrenian, the father of Alexander and Rufus, as he was coming from the country, that he might carry His cross. 
And they brought Him to the place called Golgotha, which is translated, Place of a Skull. 
And they gave Him wine mingled with myrrh to drink, but He did not take it. 
And having crucified Him, they divided His clothes by casting lots over them, to determine who would take what. 
Now it was the third hour, and they crucified Him. 
And there was the inscription of His charge having been inscribed: THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
And together with Him they crucified two bandits, one on His right side and the one on His left. 
So the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “And He was numbered with the transgressors.” 
And those passing by were blaspheming Him, shaking their heads and saying, “Aha! You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, 
save Yourself, and come down from the cross!” 
Likewise the chief priests also, mocking Him to each other with the scribes said, “He saved others; Himself He is not able to save. 
Let the Christ, the King of Israel, come down now from the cross, so that we may see and believe.” Even those who were crucified with Him were reviling Him. 
Now when the sixth hour had come, darkness came upon the whole land until the ninth hour. 
And at the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Eloi, Eloi, lima sabachthani?” which is translated, “My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?” 
Some of those standing by when they heard, said, “Look, He is calling Elijah.” 
And one, running and having filled a sponge with vinegar, and having put it around a reed, was giving a drink to Him, saying, “Leave Him alone; let us see if Elijah is coming to take Him down.” 
And Jesus, uttering a loud cry, breathed His last. 
Then the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. 
Now when the centurion who stood across from Him saw that He cried out like this and breathed His last, he said, “Truly this Man was the Son of God!” 
There were also women looking on from a distance, among whom were both Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James the Less and of Joses, and Salome, 
who also would follow Him and would minister to Him when He was in Galilee; and many other women who had come up together with Him to Jerusalem. 
And now evening having come, since it was Preparation Day, which is the day before the Sabbath, 
Joseph of Arimathea, a prominent council member, who was himself waiting for the kingdom of God, coming and taking courage, he went in to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. 
And Pilate wondered if He was already dead; and having summoned the centurion, he questioned him if He had been dead long. 
And when he found out from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph. 
And having bought linen cloth, and having taken Him down, he wrapped Him in the linen cloth and set Him down in a tomb which had been cut out of a rock, and rolled a stone upon the door of the tomb. 
And Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses were observing where He was placed. 
