Hebrews.
Chapter 10.
For the law, having a shadow of the good things to come, and not the image itself of the things, can never with the same sacrifices, which they offer continually every year, make those approaching perfect. 
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? For the worshipers, once purified, would have had no more consciousness of sins. 
But in them there is a reminder of sins every year. 
For it is not possible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. 
Therefore, when He entered into the world, He said: “Sacrifice and offering You did not desire, but a body You have prepared for Me. 
In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin You had no pleasure. 
Then I said, ‘Behold, I have come— In the volume of the book it is written of Me— To do Your will, O God.’ ” 
Earlier saying, “Sacrifice and offering, burnt offerings, and sacrifices for sin You did not desire, nor had pleasure in them” (which are offered according to the law), 
then He has said, “Behold, I have come to do Your will, O God.” He takes away the first in order that He may establish the second. 
By which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. 
And every priest stands ministering daily and offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which are never able to take away sins. 
But He Himself, having offered one sacrifice for sins forever, He sat down at the right hand of God, 
from that time waiting till His enemies are placed as a footstool for His feet. 
For by one offering He has perfected forever those who are being sanctified. 
But the Holy Spirit also witnesses to us; for after He had said before, 
“This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord. I will put My laws on their hearts, and I will inscribe them on their minds, 
and their sins and their lawless deeds I shall by no means remember any longer.” 
Now where there is remission of these, there is no longer any offering for sin. 
Therefore, brothers, having boldness to enter the Holiest by the blood of Jesus, 
by a new and living way which He inaugurated for us, through the veil, that is, through His flesh, 
and having a High Priest over the house of God, 
let us approach with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies having been washed with pure water. 
Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for He who promised is faithful. 
And let us consider one another for the stirring up of love and of good works, 
not forsaking the assembling of ourselves, just as is the custom for some, but exhorting one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near. 
For if we sin willfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, 
but a certain fearful expectation of judgment, and fiery zeal being about to devour the adversaries. 
Anyone disregarding the law of Moses dies without compassions on the testimony of two or three witnesses. 
By how much worse punishment, do you think, will he be deemed worthy who has trampled the Son of God underfoot, and has regarded as common the blood of the covenant, by which he was sanctified, and has insulted the Spirit of grace? 
For we know Him who said, “Vengeance is Mine. I will repay,” says the Lord. And again, “The Lord will judge His people.” 
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God! 
But remember the former days, in which after you were enlightened, you endured a great conflict of sufferings, 
in part being exposed publicly, both to reproaches and to afflictions, and in part having become partners of those treated in this way. 
For you sympathized with me in my chains, and you received the plunder of your possessions with joy, knowing that you have for yourselves a better and enduring possession in heaven. 
Therefore do not cast away your confidence, which has a great recompense. 
For you have need of endurance, so that having done the will of God, you may receive the promise: 
“For yet a little while, and He who is coming will come and will not delay. 
But the just shall live by faith, and if he withdraws, My soul has no pleasure in him.” 
But we are not of those shrinking back to destruction, but of faith, to the saving of the soul. 
