John.
Chapter 10.
“Most assuredly I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold through the door, but climbs up some other way, he is a thief and a robber. 
But he who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 
To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice; and he calls his own sheep by name and he leads them out. 
And whenever he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them; and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice. 
But they will by no means follow a stranger, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers.” 
This illustration Jesus spoke to them, but they did not understand the things which He spoke to them. 
Then Jesus said to them again, “Most assuredly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. 
All who came before Me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. 
I am the door. If anyone enters by Me, he will be saved, and will go in and go out, and will find pasture. 
The thief does not come except to steal, and to kill, and to destroy. I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly. 
“I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down His life for the sheep. 
But a hired hand, he who is not the shepherd, one who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees; and the wolf catches the sheep and scatters them. 
But the hired hand flees because he is a hired hand, and is not concerned about the sheep. 
I am the good shepherd; and I know My own, and I am known by My own. 
Just as the Father knows Me, I also know the Father; and I lay down My life for the sheep. 
And other sheep I have which are not of this fold; those also I must bring, and they will hear My voice; and there shall be one flock and one shepherd. 
“For this reason My Father loves Me, because I lay down My life that I may take it up again. 
No one takes it from Me, but I lay it down of Myself. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This command I have received from My Father.” 
Therefore there was a division again among the Jews because of these words. 
And many of them said, “He has a demon and is raving mad. Why do you listen to Him?” 
Others said, “These are not the words of one being demon-possessed. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?” 
Now it was the Feast of Dedication in Jerusalem, and it was winter. 
And Jesus was walking in the temple, in Solomon's porch. 
Then the Jews encircled Him and said to Him, “How long will You keep us in suspense? If You are the Christ, tell us plainly.” 
Jesus answered them, “I told you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in My Father's name, these things testify about Me. 
But you do not believe, because you are not of My sheep, just as I said to you. 
My sheep hear My voice, and I know them, and they follow Me. 
And I give to them eternal life, and they shall never perish; and no one will snatch them out of My hand. 
My Father, who has given them to Me, is greater than all; and no one is able to snatch them out of My Father's hand. 
I and the Father are one.” 
Therefore the Jews took up stones again to stone Him. 
Jesus answered them, “Many good works I have shown you from My Father. For which of those works do you stone Me?” 
The Jews answered Him, saying, “For a good work we do not stone You, but for blasphemy, and because You, being a Man, make Yourself God.” 
Jesus answered them, “Is it not written in your law, ‘I said, “You are gods” ’? 
If He called those gods, to whom the word of God came (and the Scripture cannot be broken), 
do you say of Him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, ‘You are blaspheming,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God’? 
If I am not doing the works of My Father, do not believe Me; 
but if I am doing them, even if you do not believe Me, believe the works, so that you may know and believe that the Father is in Me, and I in Him.” 
Therefore they were seeking again to seize Him, but He escaped from their hand. 
And He went away again beyond the Jordan to the place where John was first baptizing, and He stayed there. 
And many came to Him and said, “John indeed performed no sign, but everything which John said about this Man was true.” 
And many believed in Him there. 
