2 Timothy.
Chapter 4.
I charge you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who is going to judge the living and the dead in accordance with His appearing and His kingdom: 
preach the word! Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, exhort, with all patience and teaching. 
For there will be a time when they will not put up with sound doctrine, but according to their own lusts, they will heap up for themselves teachers, tickling their ears, 
and they will turn their ears away from the truth, and be turned aside to myths. 
You however be watchful in all things, endure hardship, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry. 
For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has arrived. 
I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. 
Finally, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will give to me on that Day, and not only to me, but also to all those who have loved His appearing. 
Be diligent to come to me quickly. 
For Demas has forsaken me, having loved this present world, and traveled to Thessalonica—Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia. 
Luke alone is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for ministry. 
And Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus. 
Bring the cloak which I left with Carpus at Troas when you come—and the books, especially the parchments. 
Alexander the coppersmith did me much harm. May the Lord repay him according to his works; 
whom you also should guard against, for he has greatly resisted our words. 
At my first defense no one stood with me, but all forsook me. May it not be reckoned to them. 
But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, so that through me the proclamation might be fulfilled, and all the Gentiles might hear, and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. 
And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work and preserve me for His heavenly kingdom. To Him be glory forever and ever. Amen! 
Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus. 
Erastus stayed in Corinth, but Trophimus I have left in Miletus sick. 
Be diligent to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, as well as Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brothers. 
The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Grace be with you. Amen. 
