Luke.
Chapter 4.
Then Jesus, being filled with the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, 
being tempted for forty days by the devil. And in those days He ate nothing, and afterward, when they were completed, He was hungry. 
And the devil said to Him, “If You are the Son of God, speak to this stone that it may become bread.” 
But Jesus answered him, saying, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.’ ” 
Then the devil, leading Him up on a high mountain, showed Him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. 
And the devil said to Him, “All this authority I will give You, and their glory; because it has been given to me, and I give it to whomever I wish. 
Therefore, if You will worship before me, all will be Yours.” 
And Jesus answered and said to him, “Get behind Me, Satan! It is written, ‘You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only you shall serve.’ ” 
Then he brought Him to Jerusalem, set Him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to Him, “If You are the Son of God, throw Yourself down from here. 
For it is written: ‘He shall give His angels charge over You, to guard You,’ 
and, ‘In their hands they shall bear you up, lest you dash your foot against a stone.’ ” 
And Jesus answered and said to him, “It has been said, ‘You shall not tempt the Lord your God.’ ” 
Now when the devil had completed every temptation, he departed from Him for a season. 
Then Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and news about Him spread throughout all the surrounding region. 
And He taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all. 
And He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up. And as His custom was, He entered into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and He stood up to read. 
And the book of Isaiah the prophet was given to Him. And having unrolled the scroll, He found the place where it was written: 
“The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, because He has anointed Me to preach the gospel to the poor; He has sent Me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed; 
to preach the acceptable year of the Lord.” 
And having rolled up the scroll, when He had given it to the attendant, He sat down. And the eyes of all who were in the synagogue were looking intently at Him. 
And He began to say to them, “Today this Scripture is fulfilled in your hearing.” 
And all were bearing witness to Him, and were marveling at the gracious words which came out of His mouth. And they said, “Is this not Joseph's son?” 
He said to them, “You will surely say this proverb to Me, ‘Physician, heal yourself! Whatever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in Your hometown.’ ” 
Then He said, “Assuredly I say to you, no prophet is accepted in his hometown. 
But I tell you truly, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, and there was a great famine all over the land; 
but to none of them was Elijah sent except to Zarephath, in the region of Sidon, to a widow woman. 
And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them was cleansed except Naaman the Syrian.” 
So all those in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath, 
and rising up they threw Him out of the city; and brought Him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, in order to throw Him down. 
But having passed through the midst of them, He went on. 
Then He went down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and He was teaching them on the Sabbath. 
And they were astonished at His teaching, because His word was with authority. 
Now in the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon. And he cried out with a loud voice, 
saying, “Ah! What have we to do with You, Jesus of Nazareth? Did You come to destroy us? I know who You are—the Holy One of God!” 
But Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be silenced, and come out from him!” And when the demon had thrown him down in their midst, it came out from him, and did not hurt him. 
And amazement came upon all, and they spoke among themselves, saying, “What is this word! For with authority and power He commands the unclean spirits, and they come out.” 
And the report about Him was spreading into every place of the surrounding region. 
And when He arose from the synagogue, He entered into the house of Simon. But Simon's mother-in-law was sick with a high fever, and they made request of Him about her. 
And when He stood over her, He rebuked the fever, and it left her. And immediately rising up, she began to serve them. 
Now when the sun was setting, all those who had any that were sick with various diseases brought them to Him; and He laid His hands on each one of them and healed them. 
And also demons were coming out of many, crying out and saying, “You are the Christ, the Son of God!” And rebuking them, He did not allow them to speak, because they knew that He was the Messiah. 
Now when it was day, He departed and went into a deserted place. And the crowds were searching for Him, and they came to Him, and tried to restrain Him from leaving them; 
but He said to them, “I must proclaim the good news of the kingdom of God to the other cities also, because for this purpose I have been sent.” 
And He was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee. 
