Romans.
Chapter 12.
Therefore, brothers, I exhort you through the compassions of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, well pleasing to God, which is your spiritual act of worship. 
And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and well pleasing and perfect will of God. 
For I say, through the grace given to me, to everyone who is among you, not to think of himself too highly, beyond what you should think, but to think soberly, as God has imparted to each one a measure of faith. 
For just as we have many members in one body, but all the members do not have the same function, 
so we, being many, are one body in Christ, and individually members of one another. 
Having then gifts differing according to the grace having been given to us, let us use them: whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith; 
whether ministry, let us use it in our ministry; whether teaching; in the teaching; 
whether exhorting, in the exhortation; whether sharing, with simplicity; whether leading, with diligence; whether showing mercy, with cheerfulness. 
Let love be without hypocrisy. Hate that which is evil. Cleave to that which is good. 
Be warmly affectionate to one another with brotherly love, in honor preferring one another; 
not lagging in diligence, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord; 
rejoicing in hope, enduring in tribulation, devoted to prayer; 
sharing in the needs of the saints, pursuing hospitality. 
Bless those that persecute you; bless and do not curse. 
Rejoice with those who rejoice, and weep with those who weep. 
Live in harmony with one another. Do not be proud, but rather associate with the humble. Do not be wise in your own opinion. 
Do not repay anyone evil for evil; providing that which is good before all men. 
If possible, as much as depends on you, keeping peace with all men. 
Beloved, do not avenge yourselves, but give place to wrath; for it is written, “Vengeance is Mine, I will repay,” says the Lord. 
Therefore “If your enemy should hunger, feed him; if he should thirst, give him drink; for by doing this you will heap burning coals upon his head.” 
Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. 
