Revelation.
Chapter 12.
And a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman having been clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars. 
And being pregnant, she was crying out, being in labor and being in great pain to give birth. 
And another sign appeared in heaven: and behold, a great, fiery dragon having seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns on his heads. 
And his tail dragged a third of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that whenever she might give birth, he might devour her Child. 
And she gave birth to a Son, a male who would shepherd all the nations with an iron rod. And her Child was caught up to God and to His throne. 
Then the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place having been prepared by God, so that they may nourish her there one thousand two hundred and sixty days. 
And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels, waging war with the dragon; and the dragon made war, and his angels, 
and he was not strong enough, nor was a place found for him any longer in heaven. 
And the great dragon was cast out, that serpent of old, called the Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world; he was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. 
Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, “Now have come the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God, and the authority of His Christ, because the accuser of our brothers, the one who accused them before our God day and night, has been thrown out of heaven. 
And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they did not love their lives to the death. 
Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them! Woe to the earth and to the sea! Because the devil has been thrown down to you, having great wrath, knowing that he has but a short time.” 
Now when the dragon saw that he was cast to the earth, he persecuted the woman who gave birth to the male Child. 
And the woman was given two wings of a great eagle, so that she might fly into the desert to her place, so that she might be nourished there for a time and times and half a time, from the face of the serpent. 
And the serpent spewed water out of his mouth like a river after the woman, so that he might cause her to be carried off by the river. 
But the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and drank up the river which the dragon had cast out of his mouth. 
And the dragon was enraged with the woman, and he went off to make war with the rest of her seed, who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus. 
