Luke.
Chapter 10.
Now after these things the Lord appointed seventy others also, and He sent them two by two before His face into every city and place where He Himself was about to come. 
Then He said to them, “The harvest indeed is great, but the workers are few; therefore pray to the Lord of the harvest that He may send forth workers into His harvest. 
Go; behold, I send you out as lambs in the midst of wolves. 
Do not carry a money bag, nor a knapsack, nor sandals; and greet no one along the road. 
But whatever house you enter, first say, ‘Peace to this house.’ 
And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon it; if not, it will return to you. 
And remain in that very house, eating and drinking what they have, for the worker is worthy of his wages. Do not move from house to house. 
And into which ever city you enter, and they receive you, eat what is set before you. 
And heal the sick there, and say to them, ‘The kingdom of God has drawn near to you.’ 
But whatever city you enter, and they do not receive you, go out into its streets and say, 
‘The very dust from your city which clings to us we wipe off against you. Nevertheless know this, that the kingdom of God has drawn near to you.’ 
I say to you that it will be more tolerable in that Day for Sodom than for that city. 
“Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! Because if the miracles which were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. 
Nevertheless it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you. 
And you, Capernaum, who are exalted to heaven, will be brought down to Hades. 
He who hears you hears Me, he who rejects you rejects Me, and he who rejects Me rejects Him who sent Me.” 
Then the seventy returned with joy, saying, “Lord, even the demons are subject to us in Your name.” 
And He said to them, “I saw Satan having fallen like lightning out of heaven. 
Behold, I give you the authority to trample on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall by any means hurt you. 
Nevertheless do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice because your names have been written in heaven.” 
In that hour Jesus rejoiced in the Spirit and said, “I praise You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent, and have revealed them to babes. Yes, Father, for so it seemed good in Your sight.” 
And turning to His disciples He said, “All things have been delivered to Me by My Father, and no one knows who the Son is except the Father, and who the Father is except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal Him.” 
And turning to His disciples He said privately, “Blessed are the eyes which see what you see; 
for I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see what you see, and they did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and they did not hear it.” 
And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tested Him, saying, “Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?” 
He said to him, “What is written in the law? How do you read it?” 
So he answered and said, “ ‘You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind,’ and ‘your neighbor as yourself.’ ” 
And He said to him, “You have answered correctly; do this and you shall live.” 
But he, wanting to justify himself, said to Jesus, “And who is my neighbor?” 
Then Jesus answered and said: “A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and encountered bandits, who after having stripped him of his clothing and having wounded him, departed, leaving him half dead. 
Now by coincidence a certain priest was coming down that road. And when he saw him, he passed by on the opposite side. 
Likewise a Levite, arriving at the place, came and saw, and passed by on the opposite side. 
But a certain Samaritan, as he traveled, came by him; and when he saw him, he was moved with compassion. 
And coming to him, he bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine; and putting him on his own animal, he brought him to an inn, and took care of him. 
On the next day, when he departed, he took out two denarii, and gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, ‘Take care of him; and whatever you spend in addition, when I come back, I will repay you.’ 
So which of these three does it seem to you proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the bandits?” 
And he said, “the one who showed mercy to him.” Then Jesus said to him, “Go and do likewise.” 
Now it came to pass as they traveled, that He entered into a certain village; and a certain woman named Martha welcomed Him into her house. 
And the woman had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus' feet and was listening to His word. 
But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she approached Him and said, “Lord, don't You care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore tell her to help me.” 
And Jesus answered and said to her, “Martha, Martha, you are worried and troubled about many things. 
But one thing is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her.” 
