Philippians.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, my beloved and longed for brothers, my joy and crown, in this way stand fast in the Lord, beloved. 
I implore Euodia and I implore Syntyche to be of the same mind in the Lord. 
Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women who labored together with me in the gospel, and with Clement also, and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the Book of Life. 
Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice! 
Let your gentleness be known to all men. The Lord is at hand. 
Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and petition, along with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God; 
and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. 
Finally, brothers, as many things as are true, as many as are honorable, as many as are just, as many as are pure, as many as are pleasing, as many as are lovely—if there is any virtue and if there is any praise—meditate on these things. 
The things which you learned and received and heard and saw in me, practice these things; and the God of peace shall be with you. 
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now once again you have revived your mindfulness on my behalf, inasmuch as indeed you were mindful, but you lacked opportunity. 
Not that I am speaking with respect to need, for I have learned to be content in whatever state I am. 
I know how to be brought low, and I know how to live in prosperity. In every place and in all circumstances I have learned both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in need. 
I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. 
Nevertheless you have done well that you shared in my affliction. 
Now you Philippians also know that in the beginning of the gospel, when I went out from Macedonia, no church shared with me in an accounting of giving and receiving except you only. 
For even in Thessalonica, both once and again you sent help for my needs. 
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit which is increasing to your account. 
And I have all things and abound. I have been made full, having received from Epaphroditus the things sent from you, a fragrant aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. 
And my God will supply all your need according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus. 
Now to our God and Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. 
Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you. 
All the saints greet you, but especially those of the household of Caesar. 
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
