Acts.
Chapter 20.
Now after the disturbance had ceased, Paul, summoning the disciples and greeting them, went away to go to Macedonia. 
And going through those parts, and encouraging them with many words, he came to Greece 
and spent three months there. And as a plot by the Jews developed against him, as he was to put to sea for Syria, a decision came about to return through Macedonia. 
And Sopater, a Berean, was accompanying him to Asia—also Aristarchus of the Thessalonians, and Secundus, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus, the Asians. 
These men, having gone ahead, were waiting for us in Troas. 
And we sailed away after the days of Unleavened Bread, from Philippi, and we came to them in Troas within five days, where we spent seven days. 
Now on the first day of the week, the disciples being assembled to break bread, Paul was discussing with them, being about to leave on the next day, and extended his message until midnight. 
And there were a considerable number of lamps in the upper room where we were assembled. 
And a certain young man named Eutychus sat in the window, being overwhelmed by a deep sleep. While Paul was speaking for a while longer, having been overwhelmed by sleep, he fell down from the third story and was taken up dead. 
But Paul, going down, fell upon him, and embracing him said, “Do not be troubled, for his life is in him.” 
And going up and breaking bread and eating, and talking for a considerable time, until daybreak, thus he departed. 
And they brought the boy living, and they were encouraged greatly. 
Now we, having gone ahead on the ship, put to sea for Assos, from there intending to take Paul on board; for thus it had been arranged, since he intended to go on foot. 
And when he met us at Assos, having taken him aboard, we came to Mitylene. 
And having sailing away from there, on the next day we arrived opposite Chios. The following day we approached to Samos and remained in Trogyllium. The following day we came to Miletus. 
For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, in order that it might not happen to him to spend time in Asia; for he was hurrying, if it was possible for him to be in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost. 
Now from Miletus, having sent to Ephesus, he summoned the elders of the church. 
And when they were present with him, he said to them: “You know from the first day which I arrived in Asia, how I was with you the whole time, 
serving the Lord with all humility, and with many tears and trials which happened to me by the plots of the Jews; 
how I kept back nothing that was profitable, but declared it to you, teaching you publicly and from house to house, 
solemnly bearing witness to both Jews and to Greeks, repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus. 
And now behold, I, having been bound in the spirit, am going to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that will happen to me there, 
except that the Holy Spirit in every city is solemnly bearing witness, saying that bonds and tribulations are waiting for me. 
But I count myself as nothing; nor do I regard my life as valuable to myself, so that I may complete my course with joy, and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to bear solemn testimony to the gospel of the grace of God. 
“And now behold, now I know that you all, among whom I have passed through preaching the kingdom of God, will no longer see my face. 
Therefore I testify to you this very day, that I am innocent of all blood. 
For I did not draw back from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. 
Therefore take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit placed you as overseers, to shepherd the church of the Lord, and of God, which He purchased with His own blood. 
For I know this, that savage wolves will come in after my departure, not sparing the flock. 
Also from among you yourselves will arise men speaking things having been distorted, in order to draw away the disciples after them. 
Therefore be alert, remembering that for three years, night and day I did not cease, with tears, exhorting each one. 
“So for the present, I entrust you, brothers, to God and to the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and give you an inheritance among all those who have been sanctified. 
I have coveted the silver or gold or clothes of no one. 
You yourselves know that these hands have rendered service to my needs, and those who were with me. 
By all things I have shown you, that thus laboring it is necessary to help the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He said, ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive.’ ” 
And having said these things, he knelt down, together with them all, and prayed. 
And there was considerable weeping by all, and falling on Paul's neck, they kissed him, 
feeling pain most of all for the words which he said, that they were about to see his face no more. And they accompanied him to the ship. 
