Matthew.
Chapter 27.
When morning came, all the chief priests and elders of the people plotted against Jesus, so as to put Him to death. 
And having bound Him, they led Him away and delivered Him to Pontius Pilate the governor. 
Then Judas, the one betraying Him, seeing that He was condemned, feeling regret, returned the thirty silver coins to the chief priests and elders, 
saying, “I have sinned by betraying innocent blood.” And they said, “What is that to us? You see to it!” 
And throwing the silver coins in the sanctuary, he departed; and going away, he hanged himself. 
But the chief priests, taking the silver coins said, “It is not lawful to put them into the temple treasury, since they are the price of blood.” 
And taking counsel, they bought with them the potter's field, to bury strangers in. 
Therefore that field has been called the Field of Blood to this day. 
Then was fulfilled the thing spoken through Jeremiah the prophet, saying, “And they took the thirty coins, the value of Him who was priced,” whom they of the sons of Israel priced, 
“and they gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord directed me.” 
Now Jesus stood before the governor. And the governor asked Him, saying, “Are You the King of the Jews?” So Jesus said to him, “It is as you say.” 
And while He was being accused by the chief priests and elders, He answered nothing. 
Then Pilate said to Him, “Do You not hear how many things they testify against You?” 
And He answered him not one word, so that the governor was greatly amazed. 
Now at the feast, the governor was accustomed to release to the crowd one prisoner whom they wished. 
And they had then a notorious prisoner called Barabbas. 
Therefore when they had assembled, Pilate said to them, “Whom do you wish that I should release to you, Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?” 
For he knew that they had handed Him over because of envy. 
Now as he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, “Have nothing to do with that just Man, for I have suffered many things today in a dream because of Him.” 
But the chief priests and elders persuaded the crowds that they should ask for Barabbas, but they should destroy Jesus. 
The governor answered and said to them, “Which of the two do you wish me to release to you?” They said, “Barabbas!” 
Pilate said to them, “What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?” They all said to him, “Let Him be crucified!” 
Then the governor said, “Why, what evil did He do?” But they cried out all the more, saying, “Let Him be crucified!” 
And Pilate, seeing that nothing was being gained, but rather a riot was starting, taking water, he washed his hands clean in front of the crowd, saying, “I am innocent of the blood of this just Man. You see to it.” 
And all the people answered and said, “His blood be on us and on our children.” 
Then he released Barabbas to them; and having scourged Jesus, he delivered Him to be crucified. 
Then the soldiers of the governor, having taken Jesus to the Praetorium, gathered the whole garrison around Him. 
And having stripped Him, they put a scarlet robe on Him. 
When they had twisted a crown of thorns, they put it on His head, and a reed in His right hand. And kneeling before Him, they mocked Him, saying, “Hail, King of the Jews!” 
And spitting on Him, they took the reed and were striking Him on His head. 
And when they had mocked Him, they stripped Him of the robe, and dressed Him in His own clothes, and led Him away in order to crucify Him. 
And going out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. Him they pressed into service that he might carry His cross. 
And coming to a place called Golgotha, that is to say, Place of a Skull, 
they gave Him sour wine mingled with gall to drink. But having tasted it, He would not drink. 
And having crucified Him, they divided His clothes among themselves, casting lots. 
And sitting down, they kept watch over Him there. 
And they put up over His head the crime having been written against Him: THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
Then they crucified two thieves with Him, one on His right, and another on His left. 
And those passing by were blaspheming Him, shaking their heads 
and saying, “You who destroy the temple and build it in three days, save Yourself! If You are the Son of God, come down from the cross.” 
Likewise the chief priests also, mocking Him with the scribes and elders, and Pharisees, said, 
“He saved others; Himself He cannot save. If He is the King of Israel, let Him now come down from the cross, and we will believe on Him. 
He trusted in God; let Him deliver Him now, if He will have Him; for He said, ‘I am the Son of God.’ ” 
Even the thieves who were crucified with Him were reviling Him with the same insult. 
Now from the sixth hour until the ninth hour, darkness came upon all the land. 
And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Eli, Eli, lima sabachthani?” that is, “My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me?” 
Some of those standing by, when they heard this, said, “This Man is calling Elijah!” 
Immediately one of them ran and took a sponge, and filled it with sour wine and put it around a reed, and offered it to Him to drink. 
But the rest said, “Leave Him alone; let us see if Elijah is coming to save Him.” 
But Jesus, again crying out with a loud voice, released His spirit. 
And behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom; and the earth was shaken, and the rocks were split, 
and the tombs were opened; and many bodies of the saints who had passed away were raised; 
and coming forth out of the tombs after His resurrection, they entered into the holy city and appeared to many. 
So when the centurion and those with him guarding Jesus, when they saw the earthquake and the things that had happened, they were greatly afraid, saying, “Truly this was the Son of God!” 
And there were many women there observing from a distance, who followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to Him, 
among whom were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee. 
Now when evening had come, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who himself had also become a disciple of Jesus. 
This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be given to him. 
And taking the body, Joseph wrapped it up in a clean linen cloth, 
and placed it in his new tomb which he had cut in the rock; and having rolled a large stone against the door of the tomb, he departed. 
And Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the grave. 
On the next day, which is after the Preparation Day, the chief priests and Pharisees were gathered together to Pilate, 
saying, “Sir, we remember how that deceiver said while He was still alive, ‘After three days I will rise.’ 
Therefore command that the grave be made secure until the third day, lest His disciples come by night and steal Him, and say to the people, ‘He was raised from the dead.’ So the last deception will be worse than the first.” 
Pilate said to them, “You have a guard; go make it as secure as you know how.” 
So they went and secured the grave, sealing the stone, with the guard. 
