Revelation.
Chapter 8.
And when He opened the seventh seal, silence occurred in heaven for about half an hour. 
And I saw the seven angels who stood before God, and seven trumpets were given to them. 
Then another angel, having a golden censer, came and stood at the altar. And much incense was given to him, so that he could offer it with the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar which is before the throne. 
And the smoke of the incense went up with the prayers of the saints out of the hand of the angel before God. 
And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire from the altar, and he cast it to the earth. And there were thunders and voices and lightnings and an earthquake. 
So the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound the trumpets. 
And the first one sounded his trumpet, and there was hail and fire, having been mixed with blood, and they were thrown to the earth; and a third of the earth was burned up, and a third of the trees was burned up, and all green grass was burned up. 
Then the second angel sounded his trumpet, and something like a great burning mountain was cast into the sea, and a third of the sea became blood. 
And a third of the living creatures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were destroyed. 
Then the third angel sounded his trumpet, and a great star fell from heaven, burning like a torch, and it fell on a third of the rivers and on the fountains of water. 
And the name of the star is called Wormwood. And a third of the waters turned into wormwood, and many men died from the waters, because they were made bitter. 
Then the fourth angel sounded his trumpet, and a third of the sun was struck, a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of them was darkened. A third of the day did not shine, and likewise the night. 
And I saw, and I heard an eagle flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, “Woe, woe, woe for those who dwell on the earth, from the remaining blasts of the trumpet of the three angels who are about to sound!” 
