John.
Chapter 2.
And on the third day there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there. 
Now both Jesus and His disciples were invited to the wedding. 
And when the wine had given out, the mother of Jesus said to Him, “They have no wine.” 
Jesus said to her, “Woman, what have I to do with you? My hour has not yet come.” 
His mother said to the servants, “Whatever He may say to you, do.” 
Now there were six stone water jars standing there, according to the purification rites of the Jews, each holding two or three measures. 
Jesus said to them, “Fill the water jars with water.” And they filled them up to the top. 
And He said to them, “Draw some out now, and take it to the head steward.” And they took it. 
Now when the head steward tasted the water which had become wine, and did not know where it came from (but the servants who had drawn the water knew), the head steward called the bridegroom 
and said to him, “Every man first sets out the good wine, and when they have well drunk, then the inferior. But you have kept the good wine until now!” 
This beginning of the signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and manifested His glory; and His disciples believed in Him. 
After this He went down to Capernaum, He, His mother, His brothers, and His disciples; and there they remained not many days. 
Now the Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
And He found in the temple those who sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the moneychangers sitting there. 
And having made a scourge out of cords, He drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and the oxen, and He poured out the coins of the moneychangers, and He overturned the tables. 
And He said to those selling the doves, “Take these things away from here! Do not make My Father's house a house of merchandise!” 
Then His disciples remembered that it was written, “The zeal for Your house will consume Me.” 
Therefore the Jews answered and said to Him, “What sign do You show us, seeing that You do these things?” 
Jesus answered and said to them, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.” 
Then the Jews said, “It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will You raise it up in three days?” 
But He was speaking about the temple of His body. 
Therefore, when He was raised up from among the dead, His disciples remembered that He spoke this thing, and they believed the Scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken. 
Now when He was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast, many believed on His name when they saw the signs that He was doing. 
But Jesus did not trust Himself to them, because He knew all men, 
and had no need that anyone should testify concerning man, for He himself knew what was in man. 
