John.
Chapter 5.
After these things there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
Now there is in Jerusalem by the Sheep Gate a pool, which is called in Hebrew, Bethesda, having five porches. 
In these porches were lying a great multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, paralyzed, waiting for the moving of the water. 
For an angel from time to time descended into the pool and stirred up the water; therefore the first one having gone in after the stirring up of the water, became well of whatever disease he was suffering from. 
Now there was a certain man there who had an ailment for thirty-eight years. 
When Jesus saw this man lying there, and knew that he already had been in that condition a long time, He said to him, “Do you wish to become well?” 
The sick man answered Him, “Sir, I do not have a man, so that whenever the water is stirred up, he may put me into the pool; but while I am coming, another steps down before me.” 
Jesus said to him, “Arise, take up your bed and walk.” 
And immediately the man became well, and took up his bed, and began to walk. And that day was the Sabbath. 
Therefore the Jews said to the man who was healed, “It is the Sabbath; it is not lawful for you to carry your bed.” 
He answered them, “He that made me whole, He said to me, ‘Take up your bed and walk.’ ” 
Then they asked him, “Who is the Man who said to you, ‘Take up your bed and walk’?” 
But the one who was healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had turned aside, while a crowd was in that place. 
After these things Jesus found him in the temple, and said to him, “Behold, you have become well. Sin no more, lest something worse happens to you.” 
The man went away and reported to the Jews that Jesus was the One who had made him well. 
And on account of this the Jews began to persecute Jesus, and were seeking to kill Him, because He was doing these things on the Sabbath. 
But Jesus answered them, “My Father has been working until now, and I am working.” 
Because of this the Jews were seeking all the more to kill Him, because not only was He breaking the Sabbath, but also He called God His own Father, making Himself equal with God. 
Then Jesus answered and said to them, “Most assuredly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of Himself, but what He sees the Father doing; for whatever He does, the Son also does in like manner. 
For the Father loves the Son, and shows to Him all things which He Himself does; and greater works than these He will show Him, so that you may marvel. 
For as the Father raises up the dead and gives life, thus also the Son gives life to whom He wills. 
For the Father judges no one, but He has committed all judgment to the Son, 
so that all may honor the Son even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him. 
“Most assuredly I say to you, he who hears My word and believes in Him who sent Me has eternal life, and shall not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life. 
Most assuredly I say to you, that an hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God; and those having heard shall live. 
For just as the Father has life in Himself, so He has granted the Son to have life in Himself, 
and has given Him authority to execute judgment also, because He is the Son of Man. 
Do not marvel at this; for an hour is coming in which all those in the tombs will hear His voice 
and shall come forth—those who have done good, to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil, to the resurrection of damnation. 
I can of My own self do nothing. Even as I hear, I judge; and My judgment is just, because I do not seek My own will but the will of the Father who sent Me. 
“If I alone testify of Myself, My testimony is not true. 
There is another who testifies about Me, and I know that the testimony which He testifies concerning Me is true. 
You have sent to John, and he has testified to the truth. 
But I do not receive the testimony from man, but these things I say so that you may be saved. 
He was the burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light. 
But I have a testimony greater than John's; for the works which the Father gave to Me, that I should complete them, these very works which I do, testify of Me, that the Father has sent Me. 
And the Father Himself, who sent Me, has testified about Me. You have neither heard His voice at any time, nor seen His form. 
But you do not have His word abiding in you, because Him whom He sent, Him you do not believe. 
You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life; and these are they which testify about Me. 
But you are unwilling to come to Me, so that you may have life. 
“I do not receive glory from men. 
But I have known you, that you do not have the love of God in yourselves. 
I have come in My Father's name, and you do not receive Me; if another comes in his own name, him you will receive. 
How can you believe, who receive glory from one another, and do not seek the glory which is from the only God? 
Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father; there is one who accuses you—Moses, in whom you have hoped. 
For if you believed Moses, you would have believed Me; for he wrote about Me. 
But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe My words?” 
