Matthew.
Chapter 9.
And getting into the boat, He crossed over and went into His own city. 
And behold, they were carrying a paralytic to Him lying on a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, He said to the paralytic, “Have courage, child; your sins are forgiven you.” 
And at once some of the scribes said among themselves, “This Man blasphemes!” 
But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, “Why do you think evil in your hearts? 
For which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Arise and walk’? 
But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on the earth to forgive sins”—then He said to the paralytic, “Arise, take up your bed, and go to your house.” 
And he arose, and went to his house. 
Now when the crowds saw, they marveled and glorified God, who had given such authority to men. 
And as Jesus passed on from there, He saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax office. And He said to him, “Follow Me.” And he arose and followed Him. 
Now it came to pass, as He reclined to eat in the house, that behold, many tax collectors and sinners, having come, were reclining to eat with Jesus and His disciples. 
And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to His disciples, “Why does your Teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?” 
When Jesus heard that, He said to them, “Those who are healthy have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. 
But go and learn what this means: ‘I desire mercy and not sacrifice.’ For I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners, to repentance.” 
Then the disciples of John approached Him, saying, “Why do we and the Pharisees fast often, but Your disciples do not fast?” 
And Jesus said to them, “Can the groomsmen mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast. 
No one puts a piece of new cloth on an old garment; for the patch pulls away from the garment, and the tear is made worse. 
Nor do they put new wine into old wineskins, or else the wineskins burst, and the wine spills out, and the wineskins will be ruined. But they put new wine into new wineskins, and both are preserved.” 
As He spoke these things to them, behold, a certain leader came and worshiped Him, saying, “My daughter has just died, but come and lay Your hand on her, and she shall live.” 
So Jesus arose and followed him, likewise His disciples. 
And behold, a woman hemorrhaging for twelve years, approaching from behind, touched the hem of His garment. 
For she said to herself, “If only I may touch His garment, I will be healed.” 
But Jesus, turning around and seeing her, said, “Take courage, daughter; your faith has healed you.” And the woman was healed from that hour. 
And when Jesus came into the house of the leader, and saw the flute players and the crowd making a commotion, 
He said to them, “Make room, for the girl has not died, but she is sleeping.” And they were ridiculing Him. 
But when the crowd had been put out, He went in and grasped her hand, and the little girl arose. 
And the report of this went out into that whole land. 
And as Jesus passed by from there, two blind men followed Him, crying out and saying, “Son of David, have pity on us!” 
And when He came into the house, the blind men approached Him, and Jesus said to them, “Do you believe that I am able to do this?” They said to Him, “Yes, Lord.” 
Then He touched their eyes, saying, “According to your faith, let it be unto you.” 
And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, saying, “See that you let no one know.” 
But they, having gone out, spread the news about Him in that whole land. 
And as they were going out, behold, they brought to Him a mute man who was demon-possessed. 
And when the demon was cast out, the mute spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, “It was never seen like this in Israel!” 
But the Pharisees said, “By the ruler of the demons He casts out demons.” 
And Jesus was going about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every illness and every disease among the people. 
But seeing the crowds, He was moved with compassion for them, because they were harassed and prostrated, like sheep having no shepherd. 
Then He said to His disciples, “Indeed the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. 
Therefore pray to the Lord of the harvest, that He may send forth workers into His harvest.” 
