Acts.
Chapter 14.
And it came to pass in Iconium that they went in together into the synagogue of the Jews, and they spoke in a way so that a great multitude, both of the Jews and of the Greeks, believed. 
But the disbelieving Jews aroused and embittered the souls of the Gentiles against the brothers. 
Therefore they spent a considerable time there, speaking boldly in the Lord, who was bearing witness to the word of His grace, giving signs and wonders to take place by their hands. 
And the multitude of the city was divided: and some were with the Jews, and others with the apostles. 
And when an attempt was made by both the Gentiles and the Jews, together with their rulers, to mistreat and to stone them, 
they became aware of it and fled to the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra and Derbe, and to the surrounding region. 
And there, they were preaching the gospel. 
And a certain man in Lystra, powerless in his feet, was sitting, lame from his mother's womb, who had never walked. 
This man heard Paul speaking; who, gazing intently on him and seeing that he had faith to be healed, 
said with a loud voice, “Stand up straight on your feet!” And he was jumping and walking about. 
And the crowds, seeing what Paul had done, raised their voice, saying in the Lycaonian language, “The gods have been made like men and have come down to us!” 
And Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, since he was the leader in speaking. 
And the priest of Zeus, whose temple was before their city, bearing bulls and garlands to the gates, together with the crowds, was desiring to sacrifice to them. 
But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard this, they tore their garments and rushed in to the crowd, crying out 
and saying, “Men! Why are you doing these things? We men are of the same nature as you, preaching the gospel to you, that you must turn from these useless things to turn to the living God, who made the heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and all the things in them, 
who in the generations gone by permitted all the Gentiles to walk in their ways. 
And yet He did not leave Himself without witness, in that He did good, giving to you rain from heaven and fruit-bearing seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness.” 
And saying these things, they scarcely stopped the crowds from sacrificing to them. 
But there arrived from Antioch and Iconium certain Jews, and having persuaded the crowds and having stoned Paul, they dragged him outside the city, thinking he was dead. 
But when the disciples encircled him, he stood and entered into the city. And the next day he went out together with Barnabas to Derbe. 
And having preached the gospel to that city and having made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, and Iconium, and Antioch, 
strengthening the souls of the disciples, urging them to continue in the faith, saying, “Through many tribulations we must enter into the kingdom of God.” 
And having chosen elders for them in every church, and having prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed. 
And having crossed Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia. 
And having spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia. 
From there they sailed to Antioch, where they were commended to the grace of God for the work which they had fulfilled. 
Now arriving and gathering the church together, they related all that God had done with them, and that He had opened the door of faith for the Gentiles. 
And they spent a long time there with the disciples. 
