Luke.
Chapter 17.
Then He said to the disciples, “It is impossible for offenses not to come, but woe to the one through whom they do come! 
It would be better for him if a millstone were around his neck, and he be cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones. 
Take heed to yourselves. If your brother sins against you, rebuke him; and if he repents, forgive him. 
And if he sins against you seven times in a day, and seven times in a day he returns, saying, ‘I repent,’ you shall forgive him.” 
And the apostles said to the Lord, “Increase our faith.” 
So the Lord said, “If you have faith as a mustard seed, you can say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted and be planted in the sea,’ and it would obey you. 
And which of you, having a servant plowing or tending sheep, will say to him when he has come in from the field, ‘Come and recline to eat’? 
But will he not say to him, ‘Prepare something for me to eat, and gird yourself and serve me until I eat and drink, and afterward you will eat and drink’? 
Does he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded? I think not. 
So likewise you, whenever you do all the things having been commanded to you, say, ‘We are unprofitable servants. We have done what we ought to do.’ ” 
And it happened while He was traveling to Jerusalem that He passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. 
Then as He entered a certain village, there met Him ten men who were lepers, who stood at a distance. 
And they lifted their voice and said, “Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!” 
And seeing them, He said to them, “Go, show yourselves to the priests.” And so it was that as they went away, they were cleansed. 
And one of them, seeing that he was healed, turned back, glorifying God with a loud voice, 
and fell down on his face at His feet, thanking Him. And he was a Samaritan. 
So Jesus answered and said, “Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? 
Were not any found returning to give glory to God except this foreigner?” 
And He said to him, “Arise, go your way. Your faith has made you well.” 
Now when He was asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God was coming, He answered them and said, “The kingdom of God does not come with observation; 
neither will they say, ‘Look here!’ or ‘Look, there it is!’ For behold, the kingdom of God is among you.” 
Then He said to the disciples, “Days will come when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you shall not see it. 
And they will say to you, ‘Look here!’ or ‘Look there!’ Do not go forth, nor follow them. 
For just as the lightning which flashes out of the one part under heaven shines to the other part under heaven, so also the Son of Man will be in His day. 
But first He must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. 
And just as it happened in the days of Noah, so it will be also in the days of the Son of Man. 
They were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all. 
Likewise also as it happened in the days of Lot; they were eating, they were drinking, they were buying, they were selling, they were planting, they were building; 
but on the day that Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. 
In the same way it shall be in the day when the Son of Man is revealed. 
“In that day, he who shall be on the housetop, and his goods in the house, let him not come down to take them away. And likewise he who is in the field, let him not turn back for the things left behind. 
Remember Lot's wife. 
Whoever seeks to save his life shall lose it, and whoever loses his life shall preserve it. 
I say to you, in that night two shall be on one bed: one shall be taken, and the other shall be left. 
Two shall be grinding together: one shall be taken, and the other shall be left.” 
And they answered and said to Him, “Where, Lord?” So He said to them, “Wherever the body is, there the eagles will be gathered together.” 
