The Epistle Of Paul To The Galatians.
Chapter 1.
Paul, an apostle (not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised Him from the dead), 
and all the brothers with me, To the churches of Galatia: 
Grace to you and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ, 
who gave Himself for our sins, so that He might deliver us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, 
to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. 
I marvel that you are turning so quickly from Him who called you in the grace of Christ, to a different gospel, 
which is not another; except there are certain people who trouble you and wish to pervert the gospel of Christ. 
But even if we, or an angel from heaven, should preach a gospel to you other than what we preached to you, let him be accursed. 
As we have said before, and I say again just now, if anyone preaches a gospel to you other than what you received, let him be accursed. 
For do I now persuade men, or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I still pleased men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. 
But I make known to you, brothers, the gospel preached by me is not according to man. 
For I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but through the revelation of Jesus Christ. 
For you have heard of my former conduct at one time in Judaism, that beyond measure I used to persecute the church of God, and I was devastating it. 
And I was advancing in Judaism above many my own age, being far more zealous for the traditions of my forefathers. 
But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb and called me through His grace, 
to reveal His Son in me, so that I might preach Him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood, 
neither did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me; but I went to Arabia, and returned once more to Damascus. 
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Peter, and I stayed with him fifteen days. 
But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the Lord's brother. 
Now what I write to you, behold, before God, I do not lie. 
Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia. 
And I was unknown by face to the churches of Judea which are in Christ. 
But they heard only, “He who persecuted us in times past now preaches the faith which at one time he was devastating.” 
And they glorified God in me. 
