2 Corinthians.
Chapter 2.
But I determined this within myself, that I would not come to you in sorrow again. 
For if I cause you sorrow, then who is he who makes me glad if not the one which is made sorrowful by me? 
And I wrote this very thing to you, so that when I came, I would not have sorrow from those from whom I ought to have joy, having confidence in you all that my joy is the joy of you all. 
For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you, through many tears, not that you might be made sorrowful, but that you might know the abundant love that I have for you. 
Now if anyone has caused grief, he has not grieved me, but in part—lest I burden you all. 
Sufficient to such a person is this punishment which was inflicted by the majority, 
so that, on the contrary, you ought rather to forgive and comfort him, so that he will not be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. 
Therefore I appeal to you to reaffirm your love for him. 
For to this end I also wrote, so that I might put you to the test, to see if you are obedient in all things. 
And to whom you forgive anything, I also forgive; for if indeed I have forgiven anything, the one whom I have forgiven, I have done so for your sakes in the presence of Christ, 
lest we be taken advantage of by Satan; for we are not ignorant of his devices. 
Now when I came to Troas for the gospel of Christ, and a door was opened to me by the Lord, 
I had no rest in my spirit, because I did not find Titus my brother; but saying farewell to them, I departed for Macedonia. 
Now thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumph in Christ, and making known through us the fragrance of His knowledge in every place. 
For we are the fragrance of Christ to God among those being saved, and among those perishing. 
To some we are the fragrance of death unto death, but to others the fragrance of life unto life. And who is sufficient for these things? 
For we are not as the rest, corrupting the word of God; but as of sincerity, but as from God, we speak in the sight of God in Christ. 
