The Epistle Of Paul To The Philippians.
Chapter 1.
Paul and Timothy, bondservants of Jesus Christ, To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, together with the overseers and ministers: 
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, 
always in every prayer of mine on behalf of you all, with joy, 
for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, 
having been persuaded of this very thing, that He who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Christ Jesus; 
just as it is right for me to think this concerning you all, because I have you in my heart, both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers with me of grace. 
For God is my witness, how greatly I long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. 
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all discernment, 
that you may approve the things that are excellent, in order that you may be sincere and blameless until the day of Christ, 
having been filled with the fruit of righteousness which comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. 
But I want you to know, brothers, that the things which happened to me have come about for the advancement of the gospel, 
so that it has become evident to the whole praetorian guard, and to all the rest, that my chains are in Christ; 
and most of the brothers in the Lord, having been persuaded by my chains, are much more bold to speak the word fearlessly. 
Some indeed are preaching Christ even from envy and strife, but others from good will: 
The former proclaim Christ out of selfish ambition, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my chains; 
but the latter out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel. 
What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed; and in this I rejoice; yes, and I will rejoice. 
For I know that this will turn out for my deliverance through your prayer and the provision of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, 
according to my earnest expectation and hope that in nothing I will be ashamed, but with utmost boldness, as always, now also Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death. 
For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain. 
But if I am to live on in the flesh, this to me will mean fruit from my labor; and what I shall choose I do not know. 
For I am hard pressed by the two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. 
But to remain in the flesh is more needful for your sake. 
And convinced of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith, 
that your boasting may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my coming again to you. 
Only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel, 
and not being terrified in anything by your enemies, which is to them a proof of destruction, but to you of salvation, and this from God. 
For to you it has been granted for the sake of Christ, not only to believe in Him, but also to suffer for His sake, 
experiencing the same struggle which you saw in me and now you hear is in me. 
