John.
Chapter 9.
And passing by, He saw a man blind from birth. 
And His disciples asked Him, saying, “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?” 
Jesus answered, “Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but so that the works of God should be manifest in him. 
I must work the works of Him who sent Me while it is day; the night is coming when no one can work. 
While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.” 
Having said these things, He spat on the ground and made clay from the saliva; and He applied the clay on the eyes of the blind man. 
And He said to him, “Go, wash in the pool of Siloam” (which is translated, Sent). So he went and washed, and came back seeing. 
Therefore the neighbors and those who previously saw him, that he was blind, were saying, “Is not this he who sat and begged?” 
Some said, “This is he.” Others said, “He looks like him.” But he kept saying, “I am he.” 
Therefore they said to him, “How were your eyes opened?” 
He answered and said, “A Man called Jesus made clay and anointed my eyes, and He said to me, ‘Go to the pool of Siloam and wash.’ When I had gone and washed, I received my sight.” 
Then they said to him, “Where is He?” He said, “I do not know.” 
They brought him who was once blind to the Pharisees. 
Now it was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the clay and opened his eyes. 
Then again the Pharisees were asking him how he received his sight. And he said to them, “He put clay on my eyes, and I washed, and I see.” 
Therefore some of the Pharisees were saying, “This Man is not from God, because He does not keep the Sabbath.” Others said, “How can a sinful man do such signs?” And there was a division among them. 
They said to the blind man again, “What do you say about Him, since He has opened your eyes?” He said, “He is a prophet.” 
But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he was blind and received his sight, until they called the parents of him who had received his sight. 
And they asked them, saying, “Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see?” 
And his parents answered them and said, “We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind; 
but how he now sees we do not know, or who opened his eyes we do not know. He is of age; ask him. He will speak for himself.” 
These things his parents said because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had agreed already that if anyone should confess that He was Christ, he would be excommunicated. 
On account of this his parents said, “He is of age; ask him.” 
Therefore they called a second time the man who was blind, and said to him, “Give glory to God! We know that this Man is a sinner.” 
He answered and said, “Whether He is a sinner or not I do not know. One thing I do know: that although I was blind, now I see.” 
Then they said to him again, “What did He do to you? How did He open your eyes?” 
He answered them, “I told you already, and you did not listen. Why do you wish to hear it again? Do you also want to become His disciples?” 
Then they reviled him and said, “You are His disciple, but we are Moses' disciples. 
We know that God has spoken to Moses; but as for this Man, we do not know where He is from.” 
The man answered and said to them, “Why, this is a remarkable thing, that you do not know where He is from; yet He opened my eyes! 
Now we know that God does not hear sinners; but if anyone is God-fearing and does His will, He hears him. 
Since eternity past it was unheard of that anyone opened the eyes of one having been born blind. 
If this Man were not from God, He could do nothing.” 
They answered and said to him, “You were completely born in sins, and do you teach us?” And they cast him out. 
Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and having found him, He said to him, “Do you believe in the Son of God?” 
He answered and said, “And who is He, Lord, that I may believe in Him?” 
And Jesus said to him, “You have both seen Him and it is He who is speaking with you.” 
Then he said, “Lord, I believe!” And he worshiped Him. 
And Jesus said, “For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who see might become blind.” 
Then some of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these things, and said to Him, “Are we blind also?” 
Jesus said to them, “If you were blind, you would have no sin; but now you say, ‘We see.’ Therefore your sin remains. 
