Romans.
Chapter 16.
I commend to you Phoebe our sister, who is a servant of the church in Cenchrea, 
so that you may receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints, and you may stand by her in whatever thing she may need from you; for indeed she has proved to be a helper of many and of myself also. 
Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, 
who risked their own necks for my life, to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles. 
And greet the church that is in their house. Greet my beloved Epaenetus, who is the firstfruits of Achaia to Christ. 
Greet Mary, who labored much for us. 
Greet Andronicus and Junia, my relatives and my fellow captives, who are notable among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me. 
Greet Amplias, my beloved in the Lord. 
Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved. 
Greet Apelles, approved in Christ. Greet those from the household of Aristobulus. 
Greet Herodion, my relative. Greet those from the household of Narcissus who are in the Lord. 
Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, who have labored in the Lord. Greet the beloved Persis, who labored much in the Lord. 
Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine. 
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brothers who are with them. 
Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them. 
Greet one another with a holy kiss. The churches of Christ greet you. 
Now I urge you, brothers, to look out for those who cause divisions and offenses, contrary to the doctrine which you learned, and turn away from them. 
For such people do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly, and through smooth speech and flattering, they deceive the hearts of the innocent. 
For your obedience has become known to all. Therefore I rejoice on your behalf; but I want you to be wise in what is good, and innocent to what is evil. 
And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet quickly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
Timothy, my fellow worker, and Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives, greet you. 
I, Tertius, the one writing this epistle, greet you in the Lord. 
Gaius, my host and the host of the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you, and Quartus, the brother. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
