2 Peter.
Chapter 3.
This already, beloved, is the second letter I write to you, in both of which I stir up your pure mind by a reminder, 
to remember the words having been previously spoken by the holy prophets, and the commandment of your apostles of the Lord and Savior; 
knowing this first: that mockers will come in the last days, walking according to their own lusts, 
and saying, “Where is the promise of His coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue just as it was from the beginning of creation.” 
For they deliberately overlook this fact: that by the word of God the heavens existed long ago, and the earth, standing out of water and in the water, 
by which the world at that time perished, being flooded by water; 
but the present heavens and earth, having been stored up by His word, are being reserved for fire until the Day of Judgment and destruction of ungodly men. 
But in this let it not escape your notice, beloved, that one day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. 
The Lord is not slow to fulfill His promise, as some count slowness, but is longsuffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. 
But the day of the Lord shall come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens shall pass away with a rushing noise, and the elements, burning with heat, shall be dissolved, both the earth and the works that are in it shall be burned up. 
Therefore, seeing that all these things shall be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness, 
looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens, being set of fire, shall be dissolved, and the elements, burning with heat, shall melt? 
But according to His promise, we look for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. 
Therefore, beloved, looking forward to these things, be diligent to be found by Him in peace, without spot or blemish; 
and consider that the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation—just as also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, wrote to you, 
as also in all his letters, speaking in them about these things, in which are some things hard to understand, which the unlearned and unstable twist to their own destruction, as they do also the rest of the Scriptures. 
You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, be on guard, lest you also fall from your own steadfastness, being carried away by the error of the wicked; 
but grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory both now and forever. Amen. 
