John.
Chapter 14.
“Let not your heart be troubled; you believe in God, believe also in Me. 
In My Father's house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. 
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and I will receive you unto Myself; so that where I am, there you may be also. 
And where I am going you know, and the way you know.” 
Thomas said to Him, “Lord, we do not know where You are going, and how can we know the way?” 
Jesus said to him, “I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Me. 
“If you had known Me, you would have known My Father also; and from now on you know Him and you have seen Him.” 
Philip said to Him, “Lord, show us the Father, and it is sufficient for us.” 
Jesus said to him, “Have I been with you for so long a time, and yet you have not known Me, Philip? He that has seen Me has seen the Father; so how can you say, ‘Show us the Father’? 
Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in Me? The words which I speak to you I do not speak on My own authority; but the Father who abides in Me does the works. 
Believe Me that I am in the Father and the Father is in Me, but if not, believe Me for the sake of the works themselves. 
“Most assuredly I say to you, he that believes in Me, the works which I do he will do also; and greater works than these he will do, because I go to My Father. 
And whatever you may ask in My name, this I will do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 
If you should ask anything in My name, I will do it. 
“If you love Me, keep My commandments. 
And I will ask the Father, and He will give you another Helper, so that He may abide with you forever, 
the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees Him nor knows Him; but you know Him, because He abides with you and shall be in you. 
I will not leave you orphans; I am coming to you. 
“Yet a little while and the world will see Me no more, but you will see Me. Because I live, you will live also. 
In that day you will know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you. 
He that has My commandments and keeps them, it is he who loves Me. And he who loves Me shall be loved by My Father, and I will love him and will manifest Myself to him.” 
Judas (not Iscariot) said to Him, “Lord, and what has happened that You are about to manifest Yourself to us, and not to the world?” 
Jesus answered and said to him, “If anyone loves Me, he will keep My word; and My Father will love him, and We will come to him and we will make Our home with him. 
He who does not love Me does not keep My words; and the word which you hear is not Mine but the Father's who sent Me. 
“These things I have spoken to you while I remain. 
But the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My name, He will teach you all things, and will remind you of all things which I said to you. 
Peace I leave with you, My peace I give to you; not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. 
You have heard that I said to you, ‘I am going away and coming back to you.’ If you loved Me, you would have rejoiced that I said, ‘I am going to the Father,’ for My Father is greater than I. 
“And now I have told you before it happens, so that whenever it may happen, you may believe. 
I will no longer speak many things with you, for the ruler of the world is coming, and he has nothing in Me. 
But that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father has charged Me, thus I do. Rise up, let us go from here. 
