The First Epistle Of Paul To Timothy.
Chapter 1.
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the commandment of God our Savior and the Lord Jesus Christ, our hope, 
To Timothy, my own son in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God our Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. 
Just as I urged you to remain in Ephesus as I traveled into Macedonia, that you should command certain people not to teach differently, 
nor to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies, which cause disputes rather than godly edification which is in faith. 
Now the goal of the commandment is love out of a pure heart, from a good conscience, and from sincere faith, 
from which some, having strayed, have turned aside to futile talk, 
desiring to be teachers of the law, not understanding either what they say or what they affirm. 
But we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully, 
knowing this: that the law is not laid down for the righteous, but for the lawless and insubordinate, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for killers of fathers and killers of mothers, for murderers, 
for fornicators, for homosexuals, for kidnappers, for liars, for perjurers, and if there is any other thing that is opposed to sound doctrine, 
according to the gospel of the glory of the blessed God, with which I was entrusted. 
And I give thanks to the One who empowers me, Christ Jesus our Lord, because He considered me faithful, putting me into the ministry, 
I, who was formerly a blasphemer, a persecutor, and an insolent man; but I was shown mercy, because, being ignorant, I did it in unbelief, 
and the grace of our Lord superabounded with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. 
Faithful is this word, and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. 
However, because of this I was shown mercy, so that in me first Jesus Christ might show forth all longsuffering, as a pattern for those who are going to believe on Him for everlasting life. 
Now to the King of the Ages, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. 
This charge I commit to you, my son Timothy, according to the prophecies previously made concerning you, that you may war by them the good warfare, 
having faith and a good conscience, which some having rejected, concerning the faith have suffered shipwreck, 
of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I handed over to Satan so that they may be taught not to blaspheme. 
