Mark.
Chapter 5.
Then they came to the other side of the sea, to the region of the Gadarenes. 
And when He got out of the boat, immediately there met Him from the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, 
who had his dwelling among the tombs. And no one could bind him, not even with chains, 
because he often had been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been torn apart by him, and the shackles had been broken, and no one was able to subdue him. 
And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying out and bruising himself with stones. 
But seeing Jesus from a distance, he ran and worshiped Him, 
and crying out with a great voice he said, “What have I to do with You, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure You by God, do not torment me!” 
For He was saying to him, “Come out from the man, unclean spirit!” 
And He was asking him, “What is your name?” And he answered, saying, “My name is Legion; for we are many.” 
And he was imploring Him many times that He would not send them out of the region. 
Now there was a large herd of swine feeding there near the mountain. 
So all the demons implored Him, saying, “Send us into the swine, that we may enter them.” 
And immediately Jesus gave them permission. And when the unclean spirits came out, they entered into the swine, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea, (there were about two thousand) and drowned in the sea. 
But those feeding the swine fled, and they reported it in the city and in the country. And they came out to see what it was that had happened. 
Then they came to Jesus, and observed him who had been demon-possessed and had the legion, sitting and having been clothed and being of sound mind, and they were afraid. 
And those who saw it related to them how it happened to him who had been demon-possessed, and about the swine. 
Then they began to implore Him to go away from their region. 
And when He got into the boat, he who had been demon-possessed implored Him that he might be with Him. 
But Jesus did not permit him, but said to him, “Go home to your own family, and report to them all the things that the Lord has done for you, and how He had compassion on you.” 
And he departed and began to proclaim in Decapolis all the things Jesus did for him; and all were marveling. 
Now when Jesus had crossed over again in the boat to the other side, a large crowd was gathered to Him; and He was beside the sea. 
And behold, there came one of the rulers of the synagogue, named Jairus. And seeing Him, he fell at His feet, 
and was imploring Him many times, saying, “My little daughter is near death, please come and lay Your hands on her, so that she may be healed, and live.” 
And He went away with him. And a large crowd was following Him, and they were pressing against Him. 
Now a certain woman, suffering from a flow of blood for twelve years, 
and who had suffered many things under many physicians, and who had spent everything at her disposal, and was no better, but rather having become worse, 
when she heard about Jesus, she came from behind Him in the crowd and touched His clothing. 
For she was saying, “If only I may touch His clothes, I will be healed.” 
And immediately the flow of her blood was dried up, and she knew in her body that she had been healed from her affliction. 
And Jesus, immediately knowing in Himself that power had gone out of Him, He turned in the crowd and said, “Who touched My clothes?” 
But His disciples said to Him, “You see the crowd pressing against You, and You say, ‘Who touched Me?’ ” 
And He was looking around to see her who had done this thing. 
But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell down before Him and told Him the whole truth. 
And He said to her, “Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace, and be healed of your affliction.” 
While He was still speaking, they came from the synagogue leader, saying, “Your daughter has died. Why do you still trouble the Teacher?” 
But Jesus, immediately when He heard the word being spoken, said to the synagogue leader, “Do not be afraid; only believe.” 
And He did not permit anyone to follow along with Him except for Peter, James, and John the brother of James. 
And He went to the house of the synagogue leader, and observed a commotion, and people weeping and wailing, very much. 
And when He went in, He said to them, “Why are you making such commotion and weeping? The child is not dead, but she is asleep.” 
And they were ridiculing Him. But putting them all out, He took along the father and the mother of the child, and those with Him, and He went in where the child was lying. 
And having grasped the hand of the child, He said to her, “Talitha, koumi,” which means, “Little girl, I say to you, arise.” 
And immediately the little girl arose and was walking about, for she was twelve years old. And they were overcome with great amazement. 
But He ordered them strictly that no one should know this, and said that something should be given her to eat. 
