John.
Chapter 21.
After these things Jesus showed Himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, and in this manner He showed Himself: 
Simon Peter, Thomas called the Twin, Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of His disciples were together. 
Simon Peter said to them, “I am going fishing.” They said to him, “We are coming with you also.” They went out and immediately got into the boat, and that night they caught nothing. 
But as daybreak had already come, Jesus stood upon the shore; however the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. 
Then Jesus said to them, “Children, have you any food?” They answered Him, “No.” 
And He said to them, “Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some.” Therefore they cast, and they were not able to haul it in because of the multitude of fish. 
Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, “It is the Lord!” Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment (for he had removed it), and he threw himself into the sea. 
But the other disciples came in the little boat (for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits), dragging the net with fish. 
Then as they got off onto the land, they saw a charcoal fire laid there, and fish placed on it, and bread. 
Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish which you have just caught.” 
Simon Peter went up and hauled the net onto the land, full of large fish, one hundred and fifty-three; and although there were so many, the net was not torn. 
Jesus said to them, “Come, eat breakfast.” Yet none of the disciples dared ask Him, “Who are You?”—knowing that it was the Lord. 
Jesus then came and took the bread and gave it to them, and likewise the fish. 
This was now the third time Jesus was manifested to His disciples, having been raised from the dead. 
So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you love Me more than these?” He said to Him, “Yes, Lord; You know that I care for You.” He said to him, “Feed My lambs.” 
He said to him again a second time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you love Me?” He said to Him, “Yes, Lord; You know that I care for You.” He said to him, “Shepherd My sheep.” 
He said to him the third time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you care for Me?” Peter was grieved because He said to him the third time, “Do you care for Me?” And he said to Him, “Lord, You know all things; You know that I care for You.” Jesus said to him, “Feed My sheep. 
Most assuredly I say to you, when you were younger, you used to dress yourself and used to walk where you wished; but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and will carry you where you do not wish.” 
But this He said, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. And when He had spoken this, He said to him, “Follow Me.” 
Then Peter, turning around, saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following, who also had reclined on His chest at the supper, and said, “Lord, who is the one who betrays You?” 
Peter, seeing him, said to Jesus, “But Lord, what about this man?” 
Jesus said to him, “If I will that he remain till I come, what is that to you? You follow Me.” 
Therefore this saying went out among the brothers that this disciple would not die. Yet Jesus did not say to him that he would not die, but, “If I will that he remain till I come, what is that to you?” 
This is the disciple who testifies of these things, and wrote these things; and we know that his testimony is true. 
And there are also many other things which Jesus did, which if they were written one by one, I suppose that not even the world itself would have room for the books which would be written. Amen. 
