Galatians.
Chapter 2.
Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, also taking Titus along. 
And I went up by revelation, and I set before them that gospel which I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to those with influence, lest somehow I might run, or had run, in vain. 
But not even Titus who was with me, although he was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised; 
and that was because of false brothers secretly brought in (who slipped in to spy out our freedom which we have in Christ Jesus, so that they might reduce us to slavery), 
to whom not even for an hour did we yield in subjection, that the truth of the gospel might remain with you. 
But from those who seemed to be something—whatever they were, it makes no difference to me; God shows partiality to no man—so to me, those with influence contributed nothing, 
but on the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel for the uncircumcised, just as Peter was with the gospel for the circumcised, 
(for He who worked with Peter in the apostleship to the circumcised, worked also with me in that for the Gentiles), 
and when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace which was given to me, they gave me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised; 
only they desired that we should remember the poor, which indeed I made every effort to do this very thing. 
But when Peter came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he was to be blamed. 
For before certain men came from James, he would eat together with the Gentiles; but when they came, he began to draw back and began to separate himself, fearing those of the circumcision party. 
And the rest of the Jews joined him in hypocrisy, so that even Barnabas was carried away with their hypocrisy. 
But when I saw that they did not act rightly with respect to the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter before them all, “If you, being a Jew, live in Gentile fashion and not in Jewish fashion, why do you compel the Gentiles to live as Jews?” 
We who are Jews by nature, and not sinners of the Gentiles, 
knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law but by faith in Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we might be justified by faith in Christ, and not by the works of the law; because no flesh shall be justified by the works of the law. 
But if by seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves also were found sinners, is Christ then an agent of sin? By no means! 
For if I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself a transgressor. 
For through the law I died to the law, that I might live to God. 
I have been crucified with Christ; it is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me; and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me, and gave Himself for me. 
I do not annul the grace of God; for if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died for nothing. 
