Revelation.
Chapter 3.
“And to the messenger of the church in Sardis write, “ ‘These things says He that has the seven Spirits of God and the seven stars: I know your works, that you have a name, that you live, but you are dead. 
Be watchful, and strengthen that which remains, which you were about to cast out, for I have not found your works perfect before My God. 
Remember therefore how you have received and heard, and hold fast, and repent. Therefore if you will not watch, I will come upon you like a thief, and by no means shall you know what hour I will come upon you. 
You have a few names in Sardis who have not defiled their garments; and they will walk with Me in white, because they are worthy. 
He who overcomes shall be clothed in white garments, and by no means shall I erase his name from the Book of Life; but I will confess his name before My Father and before His angels. 
“ ‘He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’ 
“And to the messenger of the church in Philadelphia write, “ ‘These things says the Holy One, the True One, “He who has the key of David, He that opens and no man shuts, except He that opens, and no man shall open.” 
I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, and no man can shut it; because you have a little strength and have kept My word, and you have not denied My name. 
Behold, I will give those of the synagogue of Satan, those who say they are Jews and are not, but they are lying—behold, I will make them to come and bow down at your feet, and they shall know that I have loved you. 
Because you have kept the word of My perseverance, I also will keep you from the hour of testing which is about to come upon the whole world, to test those that dwell upon the earth. 
I am coming quickly! Hold fast what you have, that no man may take your crown. 
He who overcomes, I will make him a pillar in the temple of My God, and by no means shall he go out any longer. And I will write on him the name of My God and the name of the city of My God, the New Jerusalem, which comes down from heaven from My God. And My new name. 
“ ‘He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’ 
“And to the messenger of the church in Laodicea write, “ ‘These things says the Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the beginning of the creation of God: 
I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish that you were cold or hot. 
Therefore, since you are lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spew you out of My mouth. 
Because you say, “I am wealthy, and have become rich, and have need of nothing”—and do not know that you are wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked, 
I counsel you to buy from Me gold having been tried by fire, so that you may become rich; and white robes, so that you may be clothed, and the shame of your nakedness may not appear; and eye salve, so that you may anoint your eyes, in order that you may see. 
As many as I love, I rebuke and discipline. Be zealous therefore, and repent. 
Behold, I stand at the door and I am knocking. If anyone hears My voice and opens the door, then I will come in to him and I will dine with him, and he with Me. 
He that overcomes, I will grant to him to sit with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat down with My Father on His throne. 
“ ‘He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’ ” 
