Matthew.
Chapter 19.
Now it came to pass, when Jesus had finished these words, that He departed from Galilee and went to the region of Judea beyond the Jordan. 
And great crowds followed Him, and He healed them there. 
The Pharisees also came to Him, testing Him, and saying to Him, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for just any reason?” 
And He answered and said to them, “Have you not read that He who made them at the beginning ‘made them male and female,’ 
and He said, ‘For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh’? 
So then, they are no longer two but one flesh. Therefore what God has joined together, let not man separate.” 
They said to Him, “Why then did Moses command to give a certificate of divorce, and to put her away?” 
He said to them, “Moses, because of the hardness of your hearts, permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it has not been this way. 
And I say to you, that whoever shall put away his wife, except it be for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery; and whoever marrying a divorcee commits adultery.” 
His disciples said to Him, “If such is the case of the man with his wife, it is better not to marry.” 
But He said to them, “All cannot accept this saying, but it is for those to whom it has been given: 
For there are eunuchs who were born this way from their mother's womb, and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He who is able to accept this, let him accept it.” 
Then little children were brought to Him, that He might put His hands on them and pray; but the disciples rebuked them. 
But Jesus said, “Allow the little children to come to Me, and do not forbid them; for of such is the kingdom of heaven.” 
And having put His hands on them, He departed from there. 
And behold, one came and said to Him, “Good Teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life?” 
So He said to him, “Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One, that is, God. But if you want to enter into life, keep the commandments.” 
He said to Him, “Which ones?” Jesus said, “ ‘You shall not murder,’ ‘You shall not commit adultery,’ ‘You shall not steal,’ ‘You shall not bear false witness,’ 
‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ ” 
The young man said to Him, “All these have I kept from my youth. What do I still lack?” 
Jesus said to him, “If you desire to be perfect, go, sell your belongings and give to the poor, and you shall have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me.” 
But when the young man heard this statement, he went away grieved, for he had many possessions. 
Then Jesus said to His disciples, “Assuredly I say to you, that with difficulty a rich man shall enter the kingdom of heaven. 
And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.” 
And when His disciples heard, they were greatly astonished, and said, “Who then is able to be saved?” 
And looking at them, Jesus said to them, “With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.” 
Then Peter answered and said to Him, “See, we have left all and followed You. What then shall we have?” 
So Jesus said to them, “Assuredly I say to you, that in the Regeneration, when the Son of Man sits on His glorious throne, you who have followed Me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 
And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or lands, for My name's sake, shall receive a hundredfold, and shall inherit eternal life. 
But many who are first will be last, and the last first. 
