2 Corinthians.
Chapter 12.
It is indeed not profitable for me to boast. I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord: 
I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago (whether in the body I do not know, or whether out of the body I do not know, God knows), such a one was caught up to the third heaven. 
And I know such a man (whether in the body or out of the body I do not know, God knows), 
that he was caught up into Paradise and heard unspeakable words, which it is not permitted for a man to utter. 
Concerning such a one I will boast, but concerning myself I will not boast, except in my weaknesses. 
For if I should desire to boast, I will not be foolish; for I will speak the truth. But I spare you, lest anyone consider me to be beyond what he sees me to be or hears something from me. 
And lest I exalt myself above measure by the excellence of the revelations, a thorn in the flesh was given to me, an angel of Satan, that it might beat me, lest I exalt myself above measure. 
Concerning this I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might depart from me. 
And He said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for My power is perfected in weakness.” Therefore most gladly I will rather boast in my weaknesses, in order that the power of Christ may rest upon me. 
Therefore I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in calamities, in persecutions, in distresses, for Christ's sake. For whenever I am weak, then I am strong. 
I have become a fool in boasting; you have compelled me! For I ought to have been commended by you; for in nothing have I been inferior to the super apostles, though I am nothing. 
Truly the signs of an apostle were worked among you with all perseverance, in signs and wonders and miracles. 
For what is it in which you were inferior to other churches, except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this wrong! 
Now for the third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not burden you. For I do not seek what is yours, but you. For the children ought not to store up for the parents, but the parents for the children. 
And I gladly will spend and be expended for your souls; although the more abundantly I love you, the less I am loved. 
But be that as it may, I did not burden you. Nevertheless, being crafty, I took you with guile! 
Did I take advantage of you by any of those whom I sent to you? 
I urged Titus, and I sent with him the brother. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same Spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps? 
Again, do you think that we are defending ourselves to you? We speak before God in Christ. But we do all things, beloved, for your edification. 
For I am afraid, lest perhaps when I come, I will not find you as I desire, and that I will be found by you as you do not desire; lest perhaps there be contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, disputes, slanders, gossipings, pride, disorders; 
lest, when I come again, my God will humble me before you, and I will mourn for many who have previously sinned and have not repented for the impurity and sexual immorality and lewdness which they have practiced. 
