Matthew.
Chapter 17.
Now after six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John his brother, and led them up on a high mountain in private; 
and He was transfigured before them, and His face shone like the sun, and His clothes became as white as light. 
And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, talking with Him. 
Then Peter answered and said to Jesus, “Lord, it is good for us to be here; if You desire, let us make here three tents: one for You, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.” 
While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them; and behold, a voice came out of the cloud, saying, “This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Listen to Him!” 
And when the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and they were greatly afraid. 
But Jesus approached and touched them and said, “Arise, and do not be afraid.” 
And lifting up their eyes, they saw no one except Jesus alone. 
And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, “Tell the vision to no one until the Son of Man is risen from the dead.” 
And His disciples asked Him, saying, “Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?” 
Jesus answered and said to them, “Elijah truly does come first, and shall restore all things. 
But I say to you that Elijah has come already, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they desired. Thus also the Son of Man is about to suffer by them.” 
Then the disciples understood that He spoke to them of John the Baptist. 
And when they came to the crowd, a man approached Him, kneeling down to Him, and saying, 
“Lord, have pity on my son, for he is moonstruck and suffers severely; for he often falls into the fire and often into the water. 
So I brought him to Your disciples, but they were not able to heal him.” 
Then Jesus answered and said, “O unfaithful and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him here to Me.” 
And Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out from him; and the boy was healed from that very hour. 
Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, “Why could we not cast it out?” 
So Jesus said to them, “Because of your unbelief; for assuredly I say to you, if you have faith like a mustard seed, you shall say to this mountain, ‘Be moved from here to there,’ and it shall move; and nothing shall be impossible for you. 
However, this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting.” 
And while they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men, 
and they will kill Him, and on the third day He shall be raised.” And they were exceedingly sorrowful. 
When they had come to Capernaum, those who collected the temple tax came to Peter and said, “Does your Teacher not pay the temple tax?” 
He said, “Yes.” And when he entered into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, “What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth take customs or taxes, from their sons or from strangers?” 
Peter said to Him, “From strangers.” Jesus said to him, “Then the sons are free. 
Nevertheless, lest we offend them, go to the sea, and cast in a hook, and take the first fish that comes up. And when you have opened its mouth, you will find a coin. Take that, and give it to them for Me and for yourself.” 
