2 Chronicles.
Chapter 22.
The people of Jerusalem made Ahaziah, Jehoram's youngest son, king in succession to his father, since the invaders who had entered the camp with the Arabians had killed all the older sons. So Ahaziah, son of Jehoram, became king of Judah. 
Ahaziah was twenty-two when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for one year. His mother's name was Athaliah, the granddaughter of Omri. 
Ahaziah also followed the evil ways of the family of Ahab, for his mother encouraged him to do wicked things. 
He did what was evil in the Lord's sight, just as the family of Ahab had done. For after his father's death they were his counselors, to his ruin. 
He also followed their advice in joining with Joram, son of Ahab, king of Israel, in attacking Hazael, king of Aram, in Ramoth Gilead. The Arameans wounded Joram, 
and he returned to Jezreel to recover from the wounds he'd received in Ramah fighting against Hazael king of Aram. Ahaziah, son of Jehoram, king of Judah, went to Jezreel to visit Joram, son of Ahab, because Joram was wounded. 
Azariah's downfall came from God when he went to see Joram. When Azariah got there, he went with Joram to meet Jehu, son of Nimri. The Lord had anointed Jehu to destroy Ahab and his family. 
While Jehu was carrying out judgment on the family of Ahab, he came across the leaders of Judah and Azariah's relatives who were assisting Ahaziah, and he killed them. 
Then Jehu went looking for Ahaziah. His men found him in Samaria and captured him, and took him to Jehu where they killed him. They buried him, for they said, “He is the grandson of Jehoshaphat, who was completely committed to following the Lord.” There was no one left from Ahaziah's family to rule the kingdom. 
When Athaliah Ahaziah's mother found out that her son was dead, she proceeded to kill all who remained of the royal family of Judah. 
But Jehoshabeath, daughter of King Jehoram, grabbed Joash, son of Ahaziah, and took him from the sons of the king who were about to be killed, and she placed him and his nurse in a bedroom. Because Jehoshabeath, the daughter of King Jehoram and the wife of Jehoiada the priest, was Ahaziah's sister, she hid Joash from Athaliah so she couldn't kill him. 
And they kept Joash hidden with them in God's Temple for six years while Athaliah ruled the country. 
