Joshua.
Chapter 19.
The second lot cast went to the tribe of Simeon, by families. The land was within the land allotted to the tribe of Judah. 
Their allocation included Beersheba, Sheba, Moladah, 
Hazar-shual, Balah, Ezem, 
Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah, 
Ziklag, Beth-marcaboth, Hazar-susah, 
Beth-lebaoth, and Sharuhen—thirteen towns with their associated villages. 
Also: Ain, Rimmon, Ether, and Ashan—four towns with their associated villages, 
as well as all the villages around these towns as far as Baalath-beer (or Ramah of the Negev). This was the land allotted to the tribe of Simeon, by families. 
The allocation of the tribe of Simeon was part of that given to the tribe of Judah, since what the tribe of Judah had received was too large for them. 
The third lot cast went to the tribe of Zebulun, by families. The boundary of their allocation began at Sarid, 
and then went west past Maralah, touched Dabbeshah, and then the brook near Jokneam. 
Going the other way from Sarid, the boundary headed east to the border of Kislot-tabor, on to Daberath, and then up to Japhia. 
From there it ran east to Gath-hepher, Eth-kazin, and on to Rimmon, and turned towards Neah. 
There the boundary turned north to Hannathon, ending at the valley of Iphtah-el. 
The towns included: Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah, and Bethlehem—twelve towns with their associated villages. 
This was the allocation—the land, towns, and villages—given to the tribe of Zebulun, by families. 
The fourth lot cast went to the tribe of Issachar, by families. 
Their land included these towns: Jezreel, Kesulloth, Shunem, 
Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath, 
Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez, 
Remeth, En-gannim, En-haddah, and Beth-pazzez. 
The boundary also reached the towns of Tabor, Shahazumah, and Beth-shemesh, and ended at the Jordan River—sixteen towns with their associated villages. 
This was the allocation—the land, towns, and villages—given to the tribe of Zebulun, by families. 
The fifth lot cast went to the tribe of Asher, by families. 
Their allocation included the towns of Helkath, Hali, Beten, Acshaph, 
Allammelech, Amad, and Mishal. Their boundary reached Carmel and Shihor-libnat in the west. 
Then it turned east towards Beth-dagon, reaching the land of Zebulun and the valley of Iphtah-el. From there it headed north to Beth-emek and Neiel, and continued north to Cabul, and on through to 
Ebron, Rehob, Hammon, Kanah, and on up to Great Sidon. 
The boundary then turned towards Ramah and then the fortified town of Tyre, turning to Hosah and ending at the sea. Towns included Mehebel, Aczib, 
Ummah, Aphek, and Rehob—twenty-two towns with their associated villages. 
This was the allocation—the land, towns, and villages—given to the tribe of Asher, by families. 
The sixth lot cast went to the tribe of Naphtali, by families. 
Their boundary began at Heleph, by the oak at Zaananim, and went across to Adami-nekeb, Jabneel, and up to Lakkum, and ending at the Jordan. 
Then the boundary headed west to Aznoth-tabor, and on to Hukkok. It reached the land of Zebulun on the south, the land of Asher on the west, and the Jordan on the east. 
The fortified towns included: Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Kinnereth, 
Adamah, Ramah, Hazor, 
Kedesh, Edrei, En-hazor, 
Yiron, Migdal-el, Horem, Beth-anath, and Beth-shemesh—nineteen towns with their associated villages. 
This was the allocation—the land, towns, and villages—given to the tribe of Naphtali, by families. 
The seventh lot cast went to the tribe of Dan, by families. 
Their allocation included the towns of Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir-shemesh, 
Shaalabbin, Aijalon, Ithlah, 
Elon, Timnah, Ekron, 
Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath, 
Jehud, Bene-berak, Gath-rimmon, 
Me-jarkon, Rakkon, along with the territory opposite Joppa. 
However, the tribe of Dan was not able to hold on to their allotted land, so they went and attacked Leshem and captured it. They slaughtered its inhabitants and took possession of the town, settling there. They renamed Leshem as Dan, after their ancestor. 
This was the allocation—the land, towns, and villages—given to the tribe of Dan, by families. 
After they finished allotting the land and establishing its borders, the Israelites gave Joshua, son of Nun, an allocation among them. 
Following the Lord's command, they gave him the town he requested—Timnath-serah in the hill country of Ephraim. He rebuilt the town and settled there. 
These were the allocations distributed by Eleazar the priest, Joshua, son of Nun, and the leaders of the Israelite tribes. They were made by casting lots at Shiloh in the presence of the Lord at the entrance of the Tent of Meeting. So they finished dividing up the land. 
