Proverbs.
Chapter 16.
Human beings may make plans in their minds, but the final decision is the Lord's. 
People think that whatever they do is fine, but the Lord looks at their intentions. 
Trust whatever you do to the Lord, and your plans will be successful. 
The Lord has a purpose in everything he does, even the wicked for the day of trouble. 
The Lord hates the arrogant. You can be certain of this: the wicked won't go unpunished. 
Sin is forgiven through trustworthy love and faithfulness; by honoring the Lord people are saved from evil. 
When the way that people live pleases the Lord, he makes even their enemies be at peace with them. 
Better to have just a little and be honest than to have a lot and be dishonest. 
You can plan in your mind what to do, but the Lord will guide you. 
The king is inspired in what he says; he is not unreliable in his decisions. 
Accurate scales and balances are important to the Lord. He has determined all the weights in the bag. 
It's a terrible thing for a king to do evil, for his throne is based on doing right. 
People who tell the truth please kings; they love those who say what is right. 
An angry king can put you to death. If you're wise you'll try and calm him down. 
If the king is smiling, you'll live; his blessing is like the clouds that bring spring rain. 
Far better to get wisdom than gold; far better to choose knowledge than silver. 
The highway of the good leads away from evil. If you watch where you're going you'll save your life. 
Pride leads to destruction; and an arrogant spirit leads to a fall. 
Better to have a humble spirit and live with the poor than to share plunder with the proud. 
If you pay attention to wise instruction you will do well; you'll be happy if you trust in the Lord. 
If you think wisely you'll be called perceptive; if you speak pleasantly you'll be persuasive. 
If you have good sense it will be a fountain of life to you, but stupid people are punished by their stupidity. 
A wise mind makes sure to say sensible things; the words spoken are persuasive. 
Kind words are like a honeycomb—they taste sweet and are healthy for the body. 
There's a way that seems to be right, but in the end it's the way of death. 
A good appetite helps workers—hunger encourages them. 
Worthless people plot evil and their words burn like fire. 
Quarrelsome people cause conflict, and a gossip comes between the closest friends. 
Violent people lure their friends, and lead them in a direction that's not good for them. 
People who give you a sly wink are plotting bad things; they purse their lips and make evil happen. 
Gray hair is a glorious crown; it's achieved by living right. 
Better to be slow to anger than to be powerful, better to have self-control than to conquer a town. 
The lot is thrown into the lap, but the Lord makes every decision. 
