Genesis.
Chapter 39.
Joseph had been taken to Egypt by the Ishmaelites, who had sold him to Potiphar, an Egyptian who was one of Pharaoh's officers, the commander of the royal guard. 
The Lord was with Joseph and made him successful. He lived in his Egyptian master's house. 
His master noticed that the Lord was with him and made him successful in everything he did. 
Potiphar appreciated Joseph and his service, and put him in charge of his household and made him responsible for everything he owned. 
From the time he put Joseph in charge and trusted him with all he had, the Lord blessed Potiphar's household because of Joseph. The Lord blessed everything he had, whether in his house or in his fields. 
So Potiphar left Joseph to care for everything he owned. He didn't bother with anything except to decide what food he was going to eat. Now Joseph was handsome, having a good physique, 
so some time later he caught the eye of his master's wife. She propositioned him, saying, “Come here! Sleep with me!” 
But he turned her down, telling his master's wife, “Look, my master trusts me so much he doesn't even bother to find out how his household is running. He's put me in charge of everything he owns— 
no one in this house has more authority than me! He hasn't held back anything from me except you, because you are his wife. So how could I do such an evil thing as this, and sin against God?” 
Day after day she persisted in asking him, but he refused to sleep with her and tried to avoid her. 
But one day he went into the house to do his work and none of the other servants were there. 
She grabbed him by his clothing, and demanded, “Sleep with me!” But leaving his clothing in her hand, he ran out of the house. 
Seeing that he'd left his clothing in her hand, and had ran out of the house, 
she shouted out to her servants, “Look at this! He brought this Hebrew slave here to dishonor us! This man came to try and rape me, but I screamed at the top of my voice. 
When he heard me scream for help, he left his clothing beside me and ran outside.” 
She kept his clothing with her until her husband came home. 
Then she told him her story. It went like this: “That Hebrew slave you brought here tried to come and dishonor me. 
But as soon as I screamed and called for help, he left his clothing beside me and ran outside.” 
When Potiphar heard the story his wife told him, saying, “This is what your servant did to me,” he became angry. 
He took Joseph and put him in the prison where the king's prisoners were kept, and there he stayed. 
But the Lord was with Joseph, showing him trustworthy love, and made the chief jailer pleased with him. 
So the chief jailer put Joseph in charge of all the prisoners there and gave him the responsibility for running the prison. 
The chief jailer didn't bother with anything for Joseph took care of it all for the Lord was with him and made him successful. 
