Isaiah.
Chapter 30.
Tragedy is coming to my defiant children, declares the Lord. You make plans that don't come from me; you make alliances against my wishes, adding sin to sin. 
You go to Egypt without asking me, looking to Pharaoh for protection, hoping to find safety hiding behind Egypt. 
But the protection of Pharaoh will be an embarrassment to you; hiding behind Egypt will only bring you humiliation. 
Even though he has officials at Zoan and his messengers reach Hanes, 
the Egyptians will offend everyone because they are useless—they're no help and good for nothing, except for causing shame and bringing disgrace. 
A message about the animals of the Negev. The messengers travel through a harsh and hostile land where lions and lionesses live, vipers and vicious snakes too. Their donkeys are burdened down with valuable gifts, their camels are loaded with treasure, to give to a worthless people that can't help. 
Egypt's support is an empty breath of wind. That's why I call her Pride Sitting Down. 
Now go and write all this down on a tablet and on a scroll so that it will last forever and ever. 
For they are a rebellious people, deceitful children, who refuse to listen to the Lord's instructions. 
They tell people who see visions, “Stop seeing visions!” and to the prophets, “Don't give us prophecies about doing right—just tell us pleasant things and give us fake prophecies. 
Stop telling us straight; go a different direction! We don't want to hear any more about the Holy One of Israel.” 
So this is how the Holy One of Israel replies, Since you have rejected this message, and since you trust in oppression and believe in dishonesty, 
your punishment will suddenly fall on you, like a high wall that bulges out and collapses in an instant. 
You will be smashed like a clay pot, broken into such tiny pieces that there won't be a big enough piece to pick up coals from a hearth or a little bit of water from a well. 
This is what the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, said, If you repent and patiently trust in me, you would be saved; you would be strong if you had such calm confidence. But you refused to do it. 
You replied, “No! We'll escape on horseback! We'll get away on fast horses!” But the fast ones will be the ones chasing you! 
Just one of them will chase after a thousand of you. Just five of them will make you all run away. All that will be left of you will look like a flag fluttering on the top of a mountain, a banner waving on a hill. 
So the Lord waits, wanting to be kind to you, ready to act to show you mercy, for the Lord is a God who does what is right. All who wait for him are blessed. 
People of Zion, you who live in Jerusalem, you won't have to weep any more. When you cry for help he will be kind to you. He will answer you immediately he hears you. 
Even though the Lord will give you the bread of hardship to eat and the water of suffering to drink, your teacher will no longer hide himself from you—you will see him with your own eyes. 
When you walk to the right or to the left, you will hear this command coming from behind you: “This is the way to follow.” 
You will defile your silver-coated idols coated with silver and your gold-covered images. You will throw them away like a dirty cloth used for periods, and say to them, “out of here!” 
He will send rain when you sow, and the land will produce great harvests. At that time your cattle will feed in rich pastures. 
The oxen and donkeys that help cultivate the earth will eat good greens and grain, spread with fork and shovel. 
At that time when your enemies are killed and the fortresses fall, streams of water will flow down every mountain and hill. 
The moon will shine as bright as the sun, and the sun will shine seven times brighter, like having seven days light in one. This is the way it will be when the Lord bandages the injuries of his people and heals the wounds he caused them. 
Look how the Lord arrives from far away, burning with anger and accompanied by thick clouds of smoke! What he says shows his anger—it's like a fire that burns everything up. 
His breath rushes out like a flood that comes up to the neck. He shakes the nations in a sieve that destroys them; he puts bridles in the mouths of the different peoples to lead them away. 
But you will have a song to sing like you do on the night of a holy festival. You will celebrate in happiness like those who play pipes as they go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the Rock of Israel. 
The Lord will shout so everyone hears him he will reveal his great power. He will hit out in his anger and fury, with a fire that burns everything up, and with torrential rain, storm, and hail. 
At the Lord's command the Assyrians will be shattered, knocked down by his scepter. 
Every time the Lord hits them with his rod of punishment it will be accompanied by the music of tambourines and harps as he fights them, swinging into them in battle. 
The place of burning has been prepared a long time ago, ready for the king. Its funeral pyre is deep and wide, and has plenty of fire and wood. The breath of the Lord, like a flood of burning sulfur, sets it on fire. 
