Revelation.
Chapter 22.
The angel showed me the river of water of life, crystal-clear, flowing out of the throne of God and of the Lamb, 
right in the middle of the main street of the city. On both sides of the river was the tree of life, producing twelve crops of fruit, one every month. The leaves of the tree were used to heal people from all nations. 
There will no longer be any curse. The throne of God and of the Lamb will be there in the city, and his servants will worship him. 
They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. 
There will be no more night, and they will not need the light of a lamp, or the light of the sun, because the Lord God will give them light. They shall reign for ever and ever. 
The angel told me, “These words are trustworthy and true. The Lord God, who gave his Spirit to the prophets, sent his angel to show his servants what is about to happen.” 
“I am coming soon! Blessed are those who obey the prophetic words of this book.” 
I am John who heard and saw all this. When I heard and saw them, I fell down at the feet of the angel who had shown me these things to worship him. 
He told me, “Don't do that! I am one of God's servants just as you are, together with your brothers the prophets, and those who obey the words of this book. Worship God!” 
Then he told me, “Don't seal up the words of prophecy of this book and keep them secret, for the time is near. 
Whoever doesn't do what is right, let them stay that way. Whoever is impure, let them stay that way. Whoever does what is right, let them stay that way. Whoever is holy, let them stay that way. 
I am coming soon, and I am bringing my reward to give to everybody based on what they've done. 
I am the Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. 
Blessed are those who wash their robes so that they have the right to the tree of life, and can enter into the city through the gates. 
Those outside the city are dogs, those who practice witchcraft, those who are sexually immoral, those who murder, those who worship idols, and all those who love and invent lies. 
I, Jesus, have sent my angel to give you this testimony to share with the churches. I am both the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star.” 
The Spirit and the bride say, “Come.” Whoever hears this, say, “Come.” Whoever is thirsty, come, and whoever wants to, freely drink of the water of life. 
I solemnly declare to everyone who hears the prophetic words of this book that if anyone adds to them then God will add to them the plagues described in this book. 
If anyone takes away the prophetic words of this book, God will take away their share of the tree of life and of the holy city that are described in this book. 
He who confirms all this says, “Yes, I am coming soon.” Amen, come, Lord Jesus. 
May the grace of the Lord Jesus be with the believers. Amen. 
