Isaiah.
Chapter 9.
Even so, there will be no more darkness for those who suffered. In the past he humiliated the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the future he will bring honor to Galilee of the foreigners that is on the route that leads from Jordan to the sea. 
People walking in the dark will see a bright light; a light will shine on those living in a land of total darkness. 
You will make the nation grow enormously, and will make it extremely happy. The people will celebrate before you as people celebrate at harvest time, as soldiers celebrate when dividing up what has been looted. 
For you will smash the yoke that burdens them down, the bar across their shoulders, and the oppressors' rod used to beat them just as you did when you defeated the Midianite army. 
For every army boot that noisily trampled people down, and every uniform soaked in blood—they are going to be burned, fuel for the fire. 
For a child will be born for us, a son will be given to us. He will bear the responsibility to rule. He will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. 
His rule and the peace he brings know no limits and will never come to an end. He will sit on David's throne and rule his kingdom, making it secure. He will operate from principles of justice and goodness, from the time he begins his rule and for all eternity. The Lord Almighty is determined to make this happen. 
The Lord has sent a message directed against Jacob, and its consequences will fall upon Israel. 
All the people will soon realize it—Ephraim and the people who live in Samaria. Proudly and arrogantly they say, 
“The brick buildings have collapsed, but we will rebuild them with dressed stone; the sycamore fig trees have been cut down, but we will replace them with cedars.” 
But the Lord has strengthened Rezin's enemies against Israel and has encouraged them. 
Arameans from the east and Philistines from the west have greedily eaten swallowed Israel up. In all of this he is still angry and his hand is still raised. 
But the people didn't return to the one who punished them; they didn't come to worship the Lord Almighty. 
So in just a single day the Lord will chop off Israel's head and tail, palm branch and reed. 
Elders and honorable people are the head, and prophets who teach lies are the tail. 
The people's leaders have misled them; those who were guided by them are confused. 
As a result the Lord isn't pleased with their young men, he has no compassion for their orphans and widows, because all of them are hypocrites and do what's evil—they all talk stupidly. In all of this he is still angry and his hand is still raised. 
For wickedness blazes like a fire, burning up brambles and thorns, setting the forest on fire, sending a column of smoke swirling upwards. 
The anger of the Lord Almighty burns the land. People are like fuel for the fire, and nobody tries to help anyone else. 
People destroy others on the right, yet they're still hungry for more; people destroy others on the left, but they're still not satisfied. In the end they even destroy themselves! 
Manasseh destroys Ephraim, and Ephraim destroys Manasseh. Together they turn to destroy Judah. In all of this he is still angry and his hand is still raised. 
