Mark.
Chapter 16.
Once the Sabbath had ended, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought aromatic ointments so that they could go and anoint Jesus' body. 
Very early Sunday morning, just at sunrise, they went to the tomb. 
They were asking each other, “Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance to the tomb?” 
But when they arrived and looked, they saw that the very large, heavy stone had already been rolled away. 
When they went into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right, wearing a long white robe. They became very frightened. 
“Don't be frightened,” he told them. “You are looking for Jesus the Nazarene, the one who was crucified. He is risen from the dead. He is not here. 
Look, this is the place where they laid him to rest. Now go, and tell his disciples and Peter that he's going ahead of you to Galilee. You will see him there just as he told you.” 
They left and ran from the tomb, shaking and confused. They said nothing to anyone because they were too scared. 
When Jesus rose from the dead on Sunday morning, he appeared first of all to Mary Magdalene, from whom he'd driven out seven demons. 
She went and told those who had been with him as they mourned and cried. 
When they heard that Jesus was alive and that she had seen him, they didn't believe it. 
Later Jesus appeared in a different form to two other disciples who'd left to go to the countryside. 
They returned and told the others, but they didn't believe them either. 
After this he appeared to the eleven disciples as they were eating. He rebuked them for their lack of trust and their stubbornness, because they had not believed those who'd seen him after he had risen. 
Then he told them, “Go to the whole world, and announce the good news to everyone. 
Anyone who trusts in me and is baptized will be saved, but anyone who chooses not to trust will be condemned. 
The following signs will accompany those who trust in me: in my name they will drive out demons; they will speak new languages; 
they will be able to handle snakes; if they drink something poisonous they won't be harmed; they will place their hands on the sick and they will be healed.” 
Then, the Lord Jesus, when he had finished speaking to them, was taken up into heaven where he sat down at the right hand of God. 
The disciples went out and spread the good news everywhere, and the Lord worked with them, confirming the message through miraculous signs that accompanied it. 
