Ezekiel.
Chapter 35.
A message from the Lord came to me, saying, 
“Son of man, face towards Mount Seir and prophesy against it 
Announce that this is what the Lord God says: Watch out, because I'm condemning you, Mount Seir. I'm going to attack you and turn you into a wasteland. 
I will ruin your towns; you will be completely devastated. Then you will acknowledge that I am the Lord. 
Because of your lasting hatred for the Israelites you let them be attacked with swords as they went through terrible disasters when the time of their punishment was coming to an end. 
So as I live, declares the Lord God, I will let you be violently attacked and chased down. Since you did not hate bloodshed, bloodshed will come after you. 
I will turn Mount Seir into a ruined wasteland. I will wipe out anyone who leaves or who tries to return. 
I will fill its mountains with the dead. Those killed by the sword will fall in your hills, valleys, and all your ravines. 
I will ruin you forever. Your towns will not be inhabited again. Then you will acknowledge that I am the Lord. 
Because you said, ‘These two nations and their lands belong to us, and we will take them over, even though the Lord was there with them,’ 
then as I live, declares the Lord God, I will deal with you in the same way that you showed anger and jealousy to them in your hatred of them. They will realize that I'm punishing you because of the way you treated them. 
You will also realize that I, the Lord, heard all the nasty things you said about the mountainous land of Israel when you announced, ‘The mountains have been left empty; they're ours to take!’ 
You made a lot of boasts attacking me—you had much to say against me. I heard it for myself! 
This is what the Lord God says: I will destroy you as everyone else in the world celebrates. 
Just as you celebrated when Israel was destroyed, I will do the same to you. Mount Seir, you will become a wasteland, and so will the rest of Edom. Then they will acknowledge that I am the Lord.” 
