Acts.
Chapter 1.
Dear Theophilus, in my previous book I wrote about all that Jesus did and taught from the beginning 
until the day he was taken up to heaven. This was after he'd given instructions through the Holy Spirit to his chosen apostles. 
Over the course of forty days after the death he suffered, he showed himself to them, proving that he was alive with convincing evidence. He appeared to them, and told them about the kingdom of God. 
While he was still with them he instructed them, “Do not leave Jerusalem. Wait to receive what the Father promised, just as you heard it from me. 
It's true that John baptized with water, but in just a few days' time you will be baptized by the Holy Spirit.” 
So when the disciples met with Jesus, they asked him, “Lord, is this the time when you will re-establish Israel's kingdom?” 
“You don't need to know about the dates and times that are set by the Father's authority,” he told them. 
“But you will be given power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, throughout Judea and Samaria, and to the farthest places on earth.” 
After Jesus had told them this, he was taken up as they were watching and a cloud hid him from their sight. 
While they were staring intently at the sky as he ascended, two men dressed in white were suddenly standing beside them. 
“Men of Galilee, why are you standing here staring at the sky?” they asked. “This same Jesus who has been taken up from you to heaven shall come in the same way you saw him go into heaven.” 
Then the disciples went back to Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives which is about a Sabbath day's walk from Jerusalem. 
When they arrived, they went upstairs to the upper room where they were staying: Peter, John, James and Andrew; Philip and Thomas; Bartholomew and Matthew; James the son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas the son of James. 
They all joined together in prayer, together with the women and Mary, Jesus' mother, and his brothers. 
At this time Peter stood up and addressed a crowd of around one hundred and twenty believers who had gathered together. 
“My brothers and sisters,” he said, “The Scriptures, spoken by the Holy Spirit through David, had to be fulfilled regarding Judas, who guided those who arrested Jesus. 
He was counted as one of us, and shared in this ministry.” 
(Judas had bought a field with his ill-gotten gains. There he fell down headfirst, and his body burst apart, spilling out all his intestines. 
Everybody who lived in Jerusalem heard about this so that the field was called in their language “Akeldama,” which means, “Field of blood.”) 
As it's written in the book of Psalms, “Let his home be abandoned, and no-one live there;” and “Let someone else take over his position.” 
“So now we have to choose someone who has been with us the whole time that Jesus was with us, 
from the time John was baptizing up until the day Jesus was taken up to heaven from us. One of these must be chosen to join together with us as we witness, giving evidence of Jesus' resurrection.” 
Two names were put forward: Joseph Justus, also known as Barsabbas, and Matthias. 
They prayed together and said, “Lord, you know everyone's thoughts please show us which of these two you have chosen 
to replace Judas as an apostle in this ministry that he gave up to go to where he belongs.” 
They cast lots, and Matthias was chosen. He was counted as an apostle with the other eleven. 
