1 Chronicles.
Chapter 18.
Some time later, David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and he captured Gath and its nearby towns from the Philistines. 
David also defeated the Moabites, making them subject to him and requiring them to pay taxes. 
David then defeated Hadadezer, king of Zobah, near Hamath, as he tried enforce his control along the Euphrates River. 
David captured from him 1,000 chariots, 7,000 charioteers, and 20,000 foot soldiers. David hamstrung all the chariot horses—except he saved enough for 100 chariots. 
When the Arameans from Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David killed 22,000 of them. 
David placed forces in the Aramean town of Damascus, and also made them subject to him and required them to pay taxes. The Lord gave David victories wherever he went. 
David took the shields of gold that were carried by Hadadezer's officers and brought them to Jerusalem. 
David also took a large quantity of bronze from Tibhath and from Cun, towns that had belonged to Hadadezer. Solomon used that bronze to make the bronze sea, the columns, and the various bronze objects. 
When Tou, king of Hamath, learned that David had destroyed the entire army of Hadadezer, king of Zobah, 
he sent his son Hadoram to David to make friends with him and to congratulate him on his victory in battle over Hadadezer. Tou and Hadadezer had often been at war. Hadoram brought gifts of gold, silver, and bronze. 
King David dedicated these gifts to the Lord, along with the silver and gold he had taken from all the following nations: Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and Amalekites. 
Abishai, son of Zeruiah, killed 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt. 
He set up army posts in Edom, and all the Edomites became subject to David. The Lord gave David victories wherever he went. 
David ruled over all Israel. He did what was fair and right for all his people. 
Joab, son of Zeruiah, was the army commander, while Jehoshaphat, son of Ahilud, kept the official records. 
Zadok, son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech, son of Abiathar, were the priests, while Shavsha was secretary. 
Benaiah, son of Jehoiada, was in charge of the Kerethites and Pelethites; and David's sons were at the king's side, serving as his chief officials. 
