1 Chronicles.
Chapter 1.
Adam, Seth, Enosh, 
Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared, 
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech, Noah. 
The sons of Noah: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras. 
The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah. 
The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, Rodanim. 
The sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. 
The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan. 
Cush was the father of Nimrod, who became the world's first tyrant. 
Mizraim was the father of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, Naphtuhites, 
Pathrusites, Casluhites, and Caphtorites (ancestors of the Philistines),. 
Canaan was the father of his firstborn son, Sidon, and of the Hittites, 
Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites, 
Hivites, Arkites, Sinites, 
Arvadites, Zemarites, and Hamathites. 
The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram. The sons of Aram: Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech. 
Arphaxad was the father of Shelah, and Shelah the father of Eber. 
Eber had two sons. One was named Peleg, because in his time the earth was divided; the name of his brother was Joktan. 
Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, 
Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 
Obal, Abimael, Sheba, 
Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. These were all Joktan's sons. 
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah, 
Eber, Peleg, Reu, 
Serug, Nahor, Terah, 
and Abram (also called Abraham). 
The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael. 
These were their descendants: Nebaioth was the firstborn son of Ishmael, Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, 
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema, 
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These were Ishmael's sons. 
The sons born to Keturah, Abraham's concubine. She gave birth to: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. The sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan. 
The sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. These were all descendants of Keturah. 
Abraham was the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel. 
The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam and Korah. 
The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam and Kenaz; and Amalek through Timna. 
The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. 
The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer and Dishan. 
The sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam. Lotan's sister was Timna. 
The sons of Shobal: Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. 
The son of Anah: Dishon. The sons of Dishon: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran and Keran. 
The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan and Akan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran. 
These were the kings who reigned over Edom before any Israelite king reigned over them: Bela son of Beor, the name of whose city was Dinhabah. 
When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrah took over as king. 
When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites took over as king. 
When Husham died, Hadad son of Bedad, took over as king. He was the one who defeated Midian in the country of Moab. The name of his city was Avith. 
When Hadad died, Samlah from Masrekah took over as king. 
When Samlah died, Shaul from Rehoboth on the River took over as king. 
When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan, son of Acbor, took over as king. 
When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad took over as king. The name of his city was Pau. The name of his wife was Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, the daughter of Me-Zahab. 
Then Hadad died. The chiefs of Edom were: Timna, Alvah, Jetheth, 
Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon, 
Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar, 
Magdiel, and Iram. These were Edom's chiefs. 
