John.
Chapter 14.
“Don't let your minds be anxious. Trust in God, trust in me as well. 
In my Father's house there are many rooms. If this wasn't so I would have told you. I'm going to prepare a place for you. 
Once I've gone and prepared a place for you, I will come again and take you back with me, so that you can be there with me too. 
You know the way to where I'm going.” 
Thomas said to him, “Lord, we don't know where you're going. How can we know the way?” 
Jesus replied, “I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. 
If you had known me, you would know my Father as well. From now on, you do know him and you have seen him.” 
Philip said, “Lord, show us the Father, and we'll be convinced.” 
Jesus replied, “Have I been with you such a long time, Philip, and yet you still don't know me? Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, ‘Show us the Father’? 
Don't you believe that I live in the Father and the Father lives in me? The words I speak are not mine; it's the Father living in me who is doing his work. 
Believe me when I tell you that I live in the Father, and the Father lives in me, or at least believe because of the evidence provided by all that I've done. 
I tell you the truth, anyone who trusts in me will do the same things I am doing. In fact they will do even greater things because I am going to the Father. 
I'll do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Father may be glorified through the Son. 
Whatever you ask for in my name, I will do it. 
If you love me, you will keep my commands. 
I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Comforter, 
the Spirit of truth, who will always be with you. The world cannot accept him because it isn't looking for him and does not know him. But you know him because he lives with you and will be in you. 
I will not abandon you like orphans: I will come back to you. 
Soon the world will not see me anymore, but you will see me. Because I live, you will live too. 
On that day you will know that I live in the Father, you live in me, and I live in you. 
Those who keep my commands are the ones who love me, those who love me will be loved by my Father. I will love them too, and will reveal myself to them.” 
Judas (not Iscariot) responded, “Lord, why would you reveal yourself to us and not to the world?” 
Jesus replied, “Those who love me will do as I say. My Father will love them, and we will come and make our home with them. 
Those who don't love me don't do what I say. These words don't come from me, they come from the Father who sent me. 
I'm explaining this to you while I'm still here with you. 
But when the Father sends the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, in my place, he will teach you everything and remind you of all that I told you. 
Peace I leave you; my peace I'm giving you. The peace I give you is nothing like what the world gives. Don't let your minds be anxious, and don't be afraid. 
You've heard me tell you, ‘I am going away, but I will come back to you.’ If you really loved me, you would be happy because I'm going to the Father, for the Father is greater than I. 
I've explained this to you now before it happens so that when it does happen you will be convinced. 
I can't talk to you much longer, for the prince of this world is coming. He has no power to control me, 
but I'm doing what my Father told me to do so that the world will know that I love the Father. Now get up. Let's go.” 
