Luke.
Chapter 7.
When he'd finished speaking to the people, Jesus left for Capernaum. 
A centurion lived there who had a servant he greatly valued who was sick and was about to die. 
When he heard about Jesus, the centurion sent some Jewish elders to him, asking him to come and heal his servant. 
When the elders came to Jesus, they pleaded with him strongly, saying, “Please come and do what he asks. He deserves your help, 
because he loves our people and he built a synagogue for us.” 
Jesus went with them and as they approached the house, the centurion sent some friends to Jesus to tell him, “Lord, please don't trouble yourself by coming into my house, because I'm not worthy of that. 
I didn't even think that I was worthy to come and see you. Just give the command, and my servant will be healed. 
For I'm under the authority of my superior officers, and I have soldiers under my authority too. I command one to go and he goes, another to come and he comes. I command my servant to do something and he does it.” 
When Jesus heard this he was astounded. He turned to the crowd that was following him, and said, “I tell you, I haven't found trust like this even in Israel.” 
Then the centurion's friends returned to the house and found the servant in good health. 
Soon after Jesus went to a town called Nain, accompanied by his disciples and a large crowd. 
As he approached the town gate a funeral procession was coming the other way. The man who had died was the only son of a widow, and a sizeable crowd from the town was with her. 
When the Lord saw her he was filled with compassion for her. “Don't cry,” he told her. 
Jesus went over to the coffin and touched it, and the pall-bearers stopped. Jesus said, “Young man, I tell you, get up.” 
The dead man sat up and began to talk, and Jesus gave him back to his mother. 
A sense of awe filled everyone there and they praised God, saying, “A great prophet has arisen among us,” and “God has visited his people.” 
News about Jesus spread throughout Judea, and all around. 
The disciples of John told John about all this. 
John called two of his disciples and told them to go and see Jesus, and ask, “Are you the one we've been expecting, or should we wait for someone else?” 
When they came to Jesus, they said, “John the Baptist sent us to you, to ask you, ‘Are you the one we've been expecting or should we wait for someone else?’” 
At that very moment Jesus was healing many people of their diseases, illnesses, evil spirits, and making the blind to see. 
Jesus answered John's disciples, “Go and tell John what you've seen and heard. The blind see, the lame walk, the lepers cured, the deaf hear, the dead raised back to life, the poor are told the good news. 
How good it is for those who are not offended because of me!” 
After the messengers from John had left, Jesus began telling the crowd, “About John: what did you expect to see when you went out to meet him in the desert? Some reed blown about by the wind? 
Did you come looking for a man dressed in fine clothes? No, those who have stylish clothes and live in luxury are found in palaces. 
Were you looking for a prophet? Yes he is, and I'm telling you, he's much more than a prophet. 
It was written about him in Scripture: ‘Look, I'm sending my messenger to go before you to prepare your way.’ 
I tell you, no one born of women is greater than John, but even the most unimportant person in God's kingdom is greater than he is!” 
When they heard this, all of them—even the tax collectors—followed what God said was good and right, for they had been baptized by John. 
But the Pharisees and the religious teachers rejected what God wanted them to do, for they had refused to be baptized by John. 
“What shall I compare these people to?” asked Jesus. “What are they like? 
They're like children sitting in the market who tell one other, ‘We played the flute for you but you didn't dance; we sang sad songs but you didn't cry.’ 
When John the Baptist came he didn't eat bread or drink wine, but you say he's demon-possessed. 
Now the Son of man is here, and eats and drinks with people, but you say, ‘Look, he spends his time eating too much food and drinking too much wine. Plus he's a friend of tax collectors and sinners.’ 
However, God's wise ways are proved right by all who follow him!” 
One of the Pharisees invited Jesus to come and eat with him. Jesus went to the Pharisee's house and sat down to the meal. 
A woman who was a sinner in that town found out that Jesus was eating in the Pharisee's house. She went there, carrying an alabaster jar of perfume. 
She kneeled beside Jesus and with her tears wet his feet, and dried them with her hair. She kissed his feet, and then she poured the perfume over them. 
When the Pharisee who had invited Jesus saw this he said to himself, “If this man was really a prophet he would know who this woman was who's touching him, and what kind of person she was—that she's a sinner!” 
Jesus spoke up and said, “Simon, I have something to tell you.” “Tell me, Teacher,” he responded. 
“Once two people were in debt to a money-lender. One owed five hundred denarii, the other only fifty. 
Neither of them could repay him, so he forgave the debts. Which one will love him the most?” 
“The one he forgave the most, I would think,” Simon answered. “You're absolutely right,” said Jesus. 
Turning to the woman, he said to Simon, “You see this woman? When I came into your house, you didn't give me water to wash my feet. But she has washed my feet with her tears, and wiped them with her hair. 
You didn't give me a kiss, but since I came in she hasn't stopped kissing my feet. 
You didn't anoint my head with oil, but she poured perfume over my feet. 
So I tell you, her many sins have been forgiven—that's why she loves so much. But whoever is forgiven little, only loves a little.” 
Then Jesus said to the woman, “Your sins have been forgiven.” 
Those who were sitting eating with him began talking among themselves, saying, “Who is this who even forgives sins?” 
But Jesus told the woman, “Your trust has saved you, go in peace.” 
