John.
Chapter 10.
“I tell you the truth, anyone who doesn't come in through the gate of the sheepfold but climbs in some other way is a thief and a robber. 
The one who comes in through the gate is the shepherd of the sheep. 
The gatekeeper opens it for him, and the sheep respond to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out. 
After bringing them out, he walks ahead of them, and the sheep follow him because they recognize his voice. 
They won't follow strangers. In fact they run away from a stranger because they don't recognize the voice of strangers.” 
When Jesus gave this illustration those who were listening to him didn't understand what he meant. 
So Jesus explained again, “I tell you the truth: I am the gate of the sheepfold. 
All those who came before me were thieves and robbers, but the sheep didn't listen to them. 
I am the gate. Anyone who comes in through me will be healed. They will be able to come and go, and find the food they need. 
The thief comes only to steal, kill, and destroy. I've come to bring you life, life full to overflowing. 
I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. 
The man paid to look after the sheep is not the shepherd and he runs away when he sees the wolf coming. He abandons the sheep because they're not his, and the wolf attacks and scatters the flock 
for the man is only working for pay and doesn't care about the sheep. 
I am the good shepherd. I know who are mine, and they know me, 
just as the Father knows me and I know him. I lay down my life for the sheep. 
I have other sheep that are not in this sheepfold. I must bring them too. They will listen to my voice and there will be one flock with one shepherd. 
This is why the Father loves me, because I lay down my life so I may take it up again. 
No one takes it from me; I choose to lay it down. I have the right to give it up, and I have the right to take it back. This is the command my Father gave me.” 
The Jews were again divided in their opinion about Jesus over these words. 
Many of them said, “He's demon-possessed! He's mad! Why are you listening to him?” 
Others said, “These aren't the words of someone who's demon-possessed. Besides, a demon can't open eyes that are blind.” 
It was winter, and the time of the Festival of Dedication in Jerusalem. 
Jesus was walking in the Temple through Solomon's porch. The Jews surrounded him, asking, 
“How long are you going to keep us hanging in suspense? If you are the Messiah then tell us plainly!” 
Jesus replied, “I already told you but you refuse to believe it. The miracles I do in my Father's name prove who I am. 
You don't believe me because you are not my sheep. 
My sheep recognize my voice; I know them, and they follow me. 
I give them eternal life; they shall never be lost, and no one can snatch them from me. 
My Father who gave them to me is greater than anyone else; no one can snatch them from him. 
I and the Father are one.” 
Once again the Jews picked up stones to stone him. 
Jesus said to them, “You've seen many good deeds that I've done from the Father. Which one are you stoning me for?” 
The Jews replied, “We're not stoning you for a good deed, but for blasphemy because you are just a man but you're claiming to be God.” 
Jesus answered them, “Isn't it written in your law, ‘I said, you are gods’? 
He called those people ‘gods,’ the people to whom the word of God came—and Scripture can't be altered. 
So why are you saying the one whom the Father set apart and sent into the world is blaspheming because I said ‘I am the Son of God’? 
If I'm not doing what my Father does, then don't believe me. 
But if that is what I'm doing, even though you don't believe me, you should believe because of the evidence of what I've done. That way you can know and understand that the Father is in me, and I am in the Father.” 
Once again they tried to arrest him, but he escaped from them. 
He went back across the Jordan River to the place where John had begun baptizing, and he stayed there. 
Many people came to him, and they said, “John didn't perform miracles, but everything he said about this man has come true.” 
Many who were there put their trust in Jesus. 
