Ezekiel.
Chapter 46.
This is what the Lord God says: “The east gate of the inner court is to be kept shut during the six working days, but it shall be opened on the Sabbath and on the day of the New Moon 
The prince must come through the gateway porch from outside and he will stand by the gatepost, and the priests will sacrifice his burnt offerings and peace offerings. He is to bow in respect at the gate's threshold of the gate and leave, but the gate is not to be shut until evening. 
The people of Israel will also bow before the Lord at the gateway entrance on Sabbaths and New Moons. 
The burnt offering that the prince is to offer to the Lord on the Sabbath day shall be six male lambs and a ram, all without defects. 
The grain offering to accompany the ram shall be one ephah, and the grain offering with the lambs shall be as much as he chooses, together with a hin of olive oil for every ephah of grain. 
On the day of the New Moon he is to offer a young bull, six lambs, and a ram. They are all to be without defects. 
He is also to provide a grain offering of an ephah with the bull, an ephah with the ram, and as much as he is chooses with the lambs, together with a hin of olive oil for every ephah of grain. 
When the prince enters, he is to come in through the gateway porch, and leave the same way. 
When the people of Israel gather before the Lord at the regular religious festivals, anyone who enters through the north gate to worship has to leave through the south gate, and anyone who enters through the south gate leave through the north gate. No one is allowed to go back through the same gate through which they entered. Everyone must leave by the opposite gate. 
The prince is to enter when the people do; and leave when they leave. 
At the religious festivals and regular meetings, the grain offering will be an ephah with a bull, an ephah with a ram, and as much as people choose with the lambs, together with a hin of olive oil for every ephah of grain. 
When the prince decides to make a freewill offering to the Lord, whether it's a burnt offering or a peace offering, the east gate is to be opened for him. He shall offer his burnt offering or peace offering in the same way he does on the Sabbath. When he leaves, the gate must be closed after him. 
Every morning a year-old lamb without defects is to be sacrificed as a daily burnt offering to the Lord. 
Every morning a grain offering of a sixth of an ephah with a third of a hin of olive oil to moisten the best flour is to be provided as a grain offering to the Lord. This regulation is to be followed forever. 
Make sure the lamb, the grain offering, and the olive oil is presented every morning as a regular burnt offering. 
This is what the Lord God says: If the prince gives a gift of property to any of his sons to own, it will belong to his descendants. They will be able to inherit the property. 
However, if he gives a gift of his property to one of his servants, that servant will only own it until the Jubilee Year. Then ownership will return to the prince. His property that he passes on through inheritance belongs only to his sons—it is theirs. 
The prince is not to take people's land, driving them off their property. He is to give land to his sons from his own property, so that none of my people shall be evicted from their property.” 
The man took me through the entrance beside the gate into the north-facing holy rooms that belonged to the priests. He showed me a place at the far western end 
and told me, “This is where the priests cook guilt offerings and sin offerings, and where they bake the grain offering. This is so that they don't take them to the outer courtyard and carry holiness to the people.” 
He took me into the outer courtyard and led me to each of its four corners. I saw a separate courtyard in each corner. 
There were separate walled courtyards in the four corners of the outer courtyard. They each measured forty cubits by thirty cubits—they were all the same size. 
Each of the four courts had a stone ledge with ovens built into the base of the walls on every side. 
He told me, “These are the kitchens where those who serve in the Temple will cook the people's sacrificial offerings.” 
