1 Samuel.
Chapter 28.
Around that time the Philistines called up their armies to go to war against Israel. So Achish told David, “You do realize that you and your men must accompany me as part of the army.” 
“That's fine!” David replied. “Then you yourself will discover what I, your servant, can do.” “That's fine too,” Achish responded. “I'll make you my bodyguard for life.” 
By now Samuel had died, and all of Israel had mourned for him and buried him in Ramah, his home town. Saul had got rid of mediums and spiritists from the country. 
The Philistine armies gathered and set up camp at Shunem. Saul called up all the Israelite army and set up camp at Gilboa. 
When Saul saw the Philistine army, he was terrified, shaking with fear. 
He asked advice from the Lord, but the Lord didn't answer him either by dreams or by Urim or by prophets. 
So Saul told his officers, “Find me a woman who is a medium so I can go and ask her advice.” “There's a woman who is a medium at Endor,” his officers replied. 
Saul disguised himself by wearing different clothes. He went with two of his men to the woman at night. Saul told her, “Bring up a spirit for me so I can ask some questions. I'll give you the name.” 
“Don't you know what Saul has done,” she replied. “He's got rid of the mediums and spiritists from the country. Are you trying to set a trap for me and get me killed?” 
Saul swore an oath to her by the Lord, “As the Lord lives, you won't be held guilty for doing this.” 
“Who do you want me to bring up for you?” the woman asked. “Bring up Samuel,” he replied. 
But when the woman saw Samuel, she shouted loudly, and said to Saul, “Why have you tricked me? You're Saul!” 
“Don't be scared,” The king told her. “What can you see?” “I see a god coming up out of the ground,” the woman replied. 
“What does he look like?” Saul asked. “An old man is coming up,” she replied. “He has a robe wrapped around him” Saul thought it must be Samuel, and he bowed facedown in respect. 
Samuel said to Saul, “Why are you bothering me by bringing me up?” “I'm in terrible trouble,” Saul replied. “The Philistines are attacking me, and God has abandoned me. He doesn't answer me anymore, either by prophets or by dreams. That's why I have called you up so you tell me what to do.” 
“Why come and ask me when the Lord has abandoned you and has become your enemy?” Samuel asked. 
“The Lord has done to you exactly what he said through me, for Lord has ripped the kingdom from you and has given it to your neighbor, David. 
The Lord has done this to you today because you did not do what the Lord commanded and you did not execute his furious anger on the Amalekites. 
The Lord will hand over Israel and you yourself to the Philistines. Tomorrow you and your sons will die and be with me. The Lord will also hand over the Israelite army of Israel to the Philistines.” 
Saul collapsed face down on the ground, terrified at what Samuel had said. He had no strength, because he hadn't eaten anything all that day and night. 
The woman came over to Saul and saw that he was absolutely terrified. She told him, “Look, sir, I did what you asked. I risked my life and did what you told me. 
Now please do what I tell you. Let me bring you a little bit of food. Eat it, and you'll have the strength to go on your way.” 
But he refused, saying, “I can't eat anything.” But his men and the woman encouraged him to eat, and he did what they said. He got up from the ground and sat on the bed. 
The woman had a fattened calf at the house, and she quickly went and slaughtered it. She also got some flour, kneaded it, and baked some unleavened bread. 
She served the meal to Saul and his men, and they ate it. Then they got up and left, the same night. 
