Proverbs.
Chapter 17.
Better to eat a dry scrap in peace than to feast in a house full of people arguing. 
A servant who acts wisely will be put in charge of a disgraced son, and will share the family inheritance with the brothers. 
A crucible tests silver, and a furnace tests gold, but the Lord tests the attitude of mind. 
Evil people listen to spiteful talk, and liars pay attention to malicious words. 
Anyone who oppresses the poor insults their Maker, and anyone who enjoys the suffering of others will be punished. 
Old people are proud of their grandchildren, and children are proud of their parents. 
Fine words don't suit stupid people, how much less are lies suited to a ruler. 
Whoever gives a bribe thinks it's a magical stone—that wherever they turn they'll have success! 
If you forgive a wrong you encourage friendship, but if you keep talking about it you'll lose your friend. 
A reprimand hits a thinking person more than one hundred blows hit someone stupid. 
Evil people are only looking to rebel, so a cruel messenger will be sent to attack them. 
Better to meet a she-bear robbed of her cubs than a stupid person and their foolishness. 
If you repay evil for good, evil will never leave your house. 
The beginning of a quarrel is like the first leak in a water dam, so drop it before a major argument bursts out. 
The Lord hates it when the wicked are acquitted and the innocent condemned. 
Is there any point in stupid people trying to buy wisdom when they don't want to learn? 
A true friend is always there to love you, and family provides help when troubles come. 
It's not a wise idea to make a pledge and guarantee a neighbor's debt. 
People who love sin like to argue; those who build high gates invite destruction. 
People with warped minds don't succeed; those who tell lies get into trouble. 
A stupid son brings grief to his father; the father of a child who does stupid things has no joy. 
A cheerful attitude is like good medicine, but discouragement makes you sick. 
The wicked take hidden bribes to pervert the course of justice. 
Sensible people focus on wisdom, but the eyes of stupid people are always wandering. 
A stupid son brings grief to his father and sadness to his mother who gave birth to him. 
It's not right to impose a fine on someone who's innocent or to flog good leaders for their honesty. 
If you're wise, you'll be careful what you say; and if you're sensible, you'll keep your temper. 
Even stupid people who keep quiet are considered wise; if they don't say anything they appear intelligent. 
