1 Chronicles.
Chapter 2.
These were the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, 
Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah—these three the daughter of Shua, a Canaanite woman, bore to him. Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the Lord, so he put him to death. 
Tamar was Judah's daughter-in-law, and she bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had a total of five sons. 
The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul. 
The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol and Darda—a total of five. 
The son of Carmi: Achar, who caused trouble for Israel by being unfaithful in taking what was consecrated to the Lord. 
The son of Ethan: Azariah. 
The sons that were born to Hezron: Jerahmeel, Ram and Caleb. 
Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab was the father of Nahshon, a leader of Judah's descendants. 
Nahshon was the father of Salmon, Salmon was the father of Boaz, 
Boaz was the father of Obed, and Obed was the father of Jesse. 
Jesse was the father of his firstborn son Eliab; the second son was Abinadab, the third Shimea, 
the fourth Nethanel, the fifth Raddai, 
the sixth Ozem, and the seventh David. 
Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah's were Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three in total. 
Abigail gave birth to Amasa, and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite. 
Caleb son of Hezron had children by his wife Azubah, and also by Jerioth. These were her sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon. 
When Azubah died, Caleb took Ephrath to be his wife, and she bore him Hur. 
Hur was the father of Uri, and Uri the father of Bezalel. 
Later on Hezron slept with the daughter of Makir the father of Gilead, whom he married when he was sixty years old, and she bore him Segub. 
Segub was the father of Jair, who had twenty-three towns in Gilead. 
But Geshur and Aram took from them Havvoth Jair, along with Kenath and its towns, a total of sixty towns. These were all descendants of Makir the father of Gilead. 
After Hezron died in Caleb Ephrathah, his wife Abijah bore him Ashhur the father of Tekoa. 
The sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron: Ram (firstborn), Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah. 
Jerahmeel had another wife called Atarah. She was the mother of Onam. 
The sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel: Maaz, Jamin and Eker. 
The sons of Onam: Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur. 
Abishur's wife was called Abihail, who bore him Ahban and Molid. 
The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim. Seled died without having children. 
The son of Appaim: Ishi, the father of Sheshan. Sheshan was the father of Ahlai. 
The sons of Jada, the brother of Shammai: Jether and Jonathan. Jether died without having children. 
The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These are all the descendants of Jerahmeel. 
Sheshan had no sons, he only had daughters, but he did have an Egyptian servant named Jarha. 
So Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage to his servant Jarha, and she bore him Attai. 
Attai was the father of Nathan. Nathan was the father of Zabad, 
Zabad was the father of Ephlal, Ephlal was the father of Obed, 
Obed was the father of Jehu, Jehu was the father of Azariah, 
Azariah was the father of Helez, Helez was the father of Eleasah, 
Eleasah was the father of Sismai, Sismai was the father of Shallum, 
Shallum was the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah was the father of Elishama. 
The sons of Caleb, the brother of Jerahmeel: Mesha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph, and his son Mareshah, who was the father of Hebron. 
The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema. 
Shema was the father of Raham, and Raham the father of Jorkeam. Rekem was the father of Shammai. 
Shammai's son was Maon, and Maon was the father of Beth Zur. 
Ephah, Caleb's concubine, was the mother of Haran, Moza, and Gazez. Haran was the father of Gazez. 
The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph. 
Maacah, Caleb's concubine, was the mother of Sheber and Tirhanah. 
She was also the mother of Shaaph, the father of Madmannah, and of Sheva, the father of Macbenah and Gibea. Caleb's daughter was Acsah. 
These are all the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal, the father of Kiriath Jearim, 
Salma, the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph, the father of Beth Gader. 
The descendants of Shobal the father of Kiriath Jearim were: Haroeh, half the Manahathites, 
and the families of Kiriath Jearim: the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites, and Mishraites. From these descended the Zorathites and Eshtaolites. 
The descendants of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth Beth Joab, half the Manahathites, the Zorites, 
and the families of scribes who lived at Jabez: the Tirathites, Shimeathites, and Sucathites. These are the Kenites who descended from Hammath, the father of the house of Recab. 
