Exodus.
Chapter 31.
The Lord told Moses, 
“I have chosen by name Bezalel, son of Uri, son of Hur, from the tribe of Judah. 
I have filled him with the Spirit of God giving him ability, creativity, and expertise in all kinds of craftsmanship. 
He can produce designs in gold, silver, and bronze, 
he can cut gemstones to place in settings, and he can carve wood. He is a master of every craft. 
I have also chosen Oholiab, son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan, to help him. I have also given all the craftsmen the skills needed to make everything that I have ordered you to make: 
the Tent of Meeting, the Ark of the Testimony and its atonement cover, and all the other furniture in the Tent: 
the table with its equipment, the pure gold lampstand with all its equipment, the altar of incense, 
the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the basin plus its stand; 
as well as the woven clothes for both Aaron the priest and for his sons to serve as priests, 
as well as anointing oil and fragrant incense for the Holy Place. They are to make them following all the instructions I have given you.” 
The Lord told Moses, 
“Tell the Israelites, ‘It's absolutely essential that you keep my Sabbaths. The Sabbath will be a sign between me and you for generations to come, so that you'll know that I am the Lord who makes you holy. 
You shall keep the Sabbath because it is holy to you. Anyone who dishonors it must be killed. Anyone who works on that day must be cut off from their people. 
Six days you can work, but the seventh day is to be a Sabbath of rest, holy to the Lord. Anyone who does any work on the Sabbath day must be killed. 
The Israelites must keep the Sabbath, observing the Sabbath as an everlasting agreement for generations to come. 
It's a sign between me and the Israelites forever, for the Lord made the heavens and the earth in six days, but on the seventh day he stopped and he rested.’” 
When the Lord finished speaking with Moses on Mount Sinai, he gave him the two tablets of the Testimony, stone tablets written on by the finger of God. 
