1 Chronicles.
Chapter 3.
These were the sons of David born to him in Hebron: The firstborn was Amnon, whose mother was Ahinoam of Jezreel. The second was Daniel, whose mother was Abigail of Carmel. 
The third was Absalom, whose mother was Maacah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur. The fourth was Adonijah, whose mother was Haggith. 
The fifth was Shephatiah, whose mother was Abital. The sixth was Ithream, whose mother was his wife Eglah. 
These were the six sons born to David in Hebron, where he reigned seven years and six months. David reigned in Jerusalem thirty-three more years, 
and these were the children born to him there: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon. Their mother was Bathsheba, daughter of Ammiel. 
In addition there were also Ibhar, Elishua, Eliphelet, 
Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, 
Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet, a total of nine. 
These were all the sons of David, apart from his sons by his concubines. Their sister was Tamar. 
The male lineage from Solomon was: Rehoboam, Abijah, Asa, 
Jehoram, Ahaziah, Joash, 
Amaziah, Azariah, Jotham, 
Ahaz, Hezekiah, Manasseh, 
Amon, Josiah. 
The sons of Josiah: Johanan (firstborn), Jehoiakim (second), Zedekiah (third), Shallum (fourth). 
The sons of Jehoiakim: Jehoiachin and Zedekiah. 
The sons of Jehoiachin who was taken into captivity: Shealtiel, 
Malkiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah. 
The sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel and Shimei. The sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam and Hananiah. Their sister was Shelomith. 
Five additional sons were: Hashubah, Ohel, Berekiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-Hesed. 
The sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, and the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, and the sons of Shecaniah. 
The sons of Shecaniah: Shemaiah and his sons: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat—a total of six. 
The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, Hizkiah and Azrikam—a total of three. 
The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani—a total of seven. 
