Numbers.
Chapter 34.
The Lord told Moses, 
“Give this command to the Israelites: ‘When you enter the country of Canaan, it will be allocated to you to own with the following boundaries: 
The southern extent of your country will be from the Desert of Zin along the border of Edom. Your southern border will run east from the end of the Dead Sea, 
cross south of Scorpion Pass, on to Zin, and reach its southern limit south of Kadesh-barnea. Then it will go to Hazar-addar and on to Azmon. 
There the boundary will turn from Azmon to the Wadi of Egypt, ending at the Mediterranean Sea. 
Your western border will be the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. This is to be your boundary to the west. 
Your northern border will run from the Mediterranean Sea straight to Mount Hor. 
From Mount Hor the boundary will go to Lebo-hamath, then on to Zedad, 
to Ziphron, ending at Hazar-enan. This will be your boundary to the north. 
Your eastern border will run straight from Hazar-enan to Shepham 
Then the boundary will go down from Shepham to Riblah on the east side of Ain. It will pass down along the slopes east of the Sea of Galilee. 
Then the boundary will go down along the Jordan, ending at the Dead Sea. This is to be your land with its surrounding borders.’” 
Moses gave the order to the Israelites, “Allocate ownership of this land by lot. The Lord has commanded it to be given to the nine and a half tribes. 
The tribes of Reuben and Gad, together with the half-tribe of Manasseh, have already received their allocation. 
These two and a half tribes have received their allocation on the east side of the Jordan opposite Jericho.” 
The Lord told Moses, 
“These are the names of the men who will be in charge of allocating ownership of the land for you: Eleazar the priest and Joshua, son of Nun. 
Have one leader from each tribe help in the distribution of the land. 
These are their names: From the tribe of Judah: Caleb, son of Jephunneh. 
From the tribe of Simeon: Shemuel, son of Ammihud. 
From the tribe of Benjamin: Elidad, son of Chislon. 
A leader from the tribe of Dan: Bukki, son of Jogli. 
A leader from the tribe of Manasseh, son of Joseph: Hanniel son of Ephod. 
A leader from the tribe of Ephraim: Kemuel, son of Shiphtan. 
A leader from the tribe of Zebulun: Eli-zaphan, son of Parnach. 
A leader from the tribe of Issachar: Paltiel, son of Azzan. 
A leader from the tribe of Asher: Ahihud, son of Shelomi. 
A leader from the tribe of Naphtali: Pedahel, son of Ammihud.” 
These are the names of those the Lord put in charge of allocating land ownership in the country of Canaan. 
