Exodus.
Chapter 33.
Then the Lord told Moses, “Leave this place, you and the people you led out of Egypt, and go to the land I promised with an oath to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, telling them, ‘I will give this land to your descendants.’ 
I will send an angel out in front of you, and I will drive out the Canaanites, Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites. 
Enter a land flowing with milk and honey, but I will not accompany you because you are a rebellious people. Otherwise I would destroy you on the way.” 
When the people heard these words of criticism, they mourned and didn't put on their jewelry. 
For the Lord had previously told Moses, “Tell the people of Israel, ‘You are a rebellious people. If I was with you for just a moment, I would wipe you out. Now remove your jewelry, and I'll decide what to do with you.’” 
So the Israelites took off their jewelry from the time they left Mount Sinai. 
Moses used to set up the Tent of Meeting some way outside the camp. Anyone who wanted to ask the Lord anything could go out there to the Tent of Meeting. 
Whenever Moses went out to the Tent, all the people would go and stand at the entrance of their tents. They would watch him until he had gone inside. 
As soon as Moses went into the Tent, the cloud column would descend and stand in the doorway as the Lord spoke with Moses. 
When the people saw the cloud column standing in the doorway to the Tent, everyone would stand up and bow in worship at the entrance of their tents. 
Moses would speak to the Lord face to face as you would talk to a friend, and then returned to the camp. However, his young assistant Joshua, son of Nun, stayed in the Tent. 
Moses said to the Lord, “Look, you've been telling me, ‘Go and lead these people,’ but you haven't let me know who you're going to send with me. And yet you have stated, ‘I know you personally, and I'm happy with you.’ 
Now if it's true that you're happy with me, please teach me your ways so I can get to know you, and go on pleasing you. Remember that the people of this nation are yours.” 
The Lord replied, “I myself will go with you, and I will support you.” 
“If you don't go with us yourself, then please don't take us away from here,” Moses responded. 
“How will others know that you are happy with me, and with your people, if you don't accompany us? How would anyone tell us apart—me and your people—from every other people who live on the earth?” 
The Lord told Moses, “I promise do what you've asked, because I'm happy with you and I know you personally.” 
“Now please reveal to me your glory,” Moses asked. 
“I will make all the goodness of my character pass in front of you, I will call out the name ‘Yahweh,’ I will show grace to those I want to show grace, and I will show mercy to those I want to show mercy. 
But you won't be able to see my face, because no one can see my face and live.” 
“Come here and stand by me on this rock,” the Lord went on, 
“and as my glory goes by I'll put you in a crevice of the rock, and I'll cover you with my hand until I have passed by. 
Then I'll take my hand away and you'll see my back; but you won't see my face.” 
