Philippians.
Chapter 4.
So stand firm in the Lord, my dear friends who mean so much to me, who make me so happy! To me you are my crowning achievement! I truly love you and long to see you! 
Euodia and Syntyche—I urge you to resolve your differences with each other and agree in the Lord. 
In fact, my faithful fellow-worker, let me ask you to help these women, for they worked together with me to spread the good news—as well as Clement and my other co-workers, whose names are recorded in the book of life. 
Always be happy in the Lord—I repeat, Be happy! 
Everyone should know about your kindness. The Lord will soon be here. 
Don't worry about anything, but take everything to God in prayer, explaining your requests to him and thanking him for all he does. 
Then the peace that comes from God, which is better than we can ever imagine, will protect your thoughts and attitudes in Christ Jesus. 
Lastly, whatever is true, honorable, right, pure, beautiful, commendable, whatever is truly good and deserves to be praised, think about these kinds of things. 
Put into practice what you learned and received from me, what you saw me doing and heard me say. Then the God of peace will be with you. 
I'm so happy in the Lord that you've at last thought about me again—realizing that you were concerned about me before but you couldn't do anything about it. 
I'm not talking about my own needs, because I've already learned to be satisfied in whatever situation I find myself. 
I'm used to having nothing, and I've experienced having plenty too. In every possible situation I've learned the secret of dealing with having plenty and going hungry, of being rich and of living in poverty: 
I can do anything through him who makes me strong! 
Even so it was good of you to share with me during my troubles. 
You Philippians remember that right at the beginning of sharing the good news, when I left Macedonia, that yours was the only church that helped me financially. 
Even when I was in Thessalonica you helped me out not once but twice. 
Not that I'm looking for a donation—I'm looking for your “account” to increase in “profit.” 
For I have everything, more than I need! I'm thankful to receive from Epaphroditus the things you sent. They're like a sweet-smelling sacrifice that pleases God and that he approves of. 
My God will fill you with everything you need in accordance with his glorious wealth in Christ Jesus! 
Glory be to God the Father, forever and ever. Amen. 
Greet every fellow-believer in Christ Jesus. The Christian brothers and sisters with me send their greetings. 
All the believers send you greetings, especially those from Caesar's palace. 
May the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. 
