Exodus.
Chapter 21.
“These are the regulations you are to present to them: 
If you buy a Hebrew slave, he is to work for you for six years. But in the seventh year, he is to be freed without having to pay anything. 
If he was single when he came, he is to leave single. If he had a wife when he came, she is to leave with him. 
If his master provides him a wife and she has children with him, the woman and her children shall belong to her master, and only the man shall be freed. 
However, if the slave formally states, ‘I love my master and my wife and children; I do not want to be freed,’ 
then his master is to take him before the judges. Then he shall have him stand against the door or doorpost and use a metal tool to make a hole in his ear. Then he shall work for his master for life. 
If a man sells his daughter as a slave, she is not to be freed in the same way as male slaves. 
If the man who chose her for himself is not pleased with her, he must let her be bought back. He is not permitted to sell her to foreigners, since he has been unfair to her. 
If he chooses to give her to his son, he must treat her as a daughter. 
If he takes another woman, he must not reduce the food and clothing allowances and marital rights of the first. 
If he doesn't give her these three things, she is free to leave without paying anything. 
Anyone who hits and kills someone else must be executed. 
However, if it wasn't intentional and God let it happen, then I will arrange a place for you where they can run to and be safe. 
But if someone deliberately plans and purposely kills another, you must take them away from my altar and execute them. 
Anyone who hits their father or mother must be executed. 
Anyone who kidnaps someone else must be executed, whether the victim is sold or is still in their possessions. 
Anyone who despises their father or mother must be executed. 
If men are fighting and one hits the other with a stone or with his fist, and the injured man doesn't die but has to stay in bed, 
and then gets up and walks around outside with his walking stick, then the one who hit him won't be punished, Even so, he must still compensate the man for the time lost from his work and make sure that he's completely healed. 
Anyone who hits their male or female slave with a rod, and the slave dies as a result, must be punished. 
However, if after a day or two the slave gets better, the owner won't be punished because the slave is their property. 
If men who are fighting happen to hit a pregnant woman so she gives birth prematurely, but no serious injury occurs, he must be fined whatever amount the woman's husband demands and as permitted by the judges. 
But if a serious injury does occur, then you must pay a life for a life, 
an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a hand for a hand, a foot for a foot, 
a burn for a burn, a wound for a wound, and a bruise for a bruise. 
Anyone who hits their male or female slave in the eye and blinds them must free the slave as compensation for the eye. 
Anyone who knocks out the tooth of their male or female slave must free the slave as compensation for the tooth. 
If an ox uses its horns to kill a man or woman, the ox must be stoned to death, and its meat must not be eaten. But the owner of the ox won't be punished. 
But if the ox has repeatedly hurt people with its horns, and its owner has been warned but still doesn't keep it under control, and it kills a man or woman, then the ox must be stoned to death and its owner must also be executed. 
But if instead the payment of compensation is required, the owner may buy back his or her life by paying the full amount of compensation demanded. 
If the ox uses its horns and kills a son or a daughter the same rule is applicable. 
If the ox uses its horns and kills a male or female slave, the owner of the ox must pay thirty shekels of silver to the slave's master, and the ox must be stoned to death. 
If someone removes the cover of a cistern or digs one and doesn't cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls into it, 
the owner of the pit must pay compensation to the animal's owner and keep the dead animal. 
If someone's ox injures another's ox and it dies, they must sell the live one and share money received; they must also share the dead animal. 
But if it was known that the ox had repeatedly hurt people with its horns, and its owner had been warned but still didn't keep it under control, full compensation must be paid, ox for ox, but the owner can keep the dead animal.” 
