PSALMS.
Chapter 69.
For the music director. To the tune “Lilies.” A psalm of David. God, please save me, because the water is up to my neck! 
I'm sinking deeper into the mud—there's no solid ground for me to stand. I find myself in deep water; floods wash over me. 
I'm so tired of screaming out for help my throat is totally raw. My eyes are worn out looking for my God to help me. 
Those who hate me for no reason are more than the number of hairs on my head. Many enemies try to destroy me by telling lies. How can I give back what I didn't steal? 
God, you know how foolish I am! My sins are not hidden from you. 
Don't let those who trust you be ashamed because of me, Lord God Almighty. Don't let those who follow you be disgraced because of me, God of Israel. 
For your sake I put up with the insults; my face shows my embarrassment. 
I have become a foreigner to my brother Israelites; a stranger to my very own brothers. 
My devotion for your house is burning me up inside; the insults of those who insulted you have fallen on me. 
I wept and I fasted, but they mocked me; 
I mourned in sackcloth, but they laughed at me. 
People sitting by the town gate gossip about me. I'm the subject of rude songs sung by drunks. 
But my prayer is to you, Lord, believing this is a good time to respond to me. God, in your wonderful trustworthy love, answer me with your sure salvation. 
Please rescue me from the mud—don't let me sink! Save me from those who hate me and from drowning in the deep waters! 
Don't let the flood waters wash over me. Don't let the deep waters pull me down. Don't let the grave close over me. 
Please answer my prayers, Lord, for you are good and love me with your trustworthy love; because of your kindness, please help me. 
Don't turn away from me, your servant. Please answer me quickly because I'm in trouble. 
Come here and rescue me; set me free from my enemies. 
You—you know my shame, my disgrace, my humiliation. You see everything my enemies are doing. 
Insults have broken my heart—I am so sick there is no cure. I looked for some sympathy, but there was no one! Nobody showed me any compassion. 
Instead they gave me bitter herbs to eat and vinegar to drink. 
May the table set before them become a trap for them, a net that catches them, bringing punishment. 
May their eyes become blind so they cannot see, and may their backs always be bent low in dejection. 
Pour out your judgment on them; chase them down in your fierce anger. 
Let the places where they live be deserted. Let their homes be abandoned. 
For they persecute those you have punished, and make it even more painful for those you have disciplined. 
Punish them for the evil they have done. Don't acquit them. 
Blot out their names from the Book of Life. Don't let them be listed with those who do right. 
But I am suffering and in physical pain. God, please save me and keep me safe. 
I will praise God's character in song; I will say how incredible he is and how thankful I am. 
The Lord is happier with this than with offering animals as sacrifices: cattle, or bulls with horns and hooves. 
The humble will see this and be happy. May God encourage everyone who comes to him. 
God hears the poor, and he does not ignore his people who are in prison. 
Praise him heaven and earth, the seas and everything that lives in them! 
For God will save Zion, and rebuild the cities of Judah. They will live there and own the land. 
The descendants of those who follow him will inherit the land, and those who love him will live there. 
