Luke.
Chapter 22.
Now the Festival of Unleavened Bread, also called the Passover, was approaching. 
The chief priests and religious teachers were looking for a way to kill Jesus, but were afraid of what the people would do. 
Satan entered into Judas, surnamed Iscariot, one of the twelve disciples. 
He went and discussed with the chief priests and guard officers how he could betray Jesus. 
They were delighted, and offered him money. 
He agreed, and began to look for an opportunity to hand over Jesus when a crowd would not be there. 
The Day of Unleavened Bread arrived when the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed. 
Jesus sent Peter and John, telling them, “Go and prepare the Passover meal, so we can eat it together.” 
They asked him, “Where do you want us to prepare for it?” 
He replied, “When you enter the city you'll meet a man carrying a jar of water. Follow him and go into the house he enters. 
Tell the owner of the house that the Teacher asks you, ‘Where is the dining room where I can eat the Passover with my disciples?’ 
He'll show you a large upstairs room that already has the necessary furniture. Prepare the meal there.” 
They went and found that everything was just as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover meal there. 
When the time came, he sat down at the table with his apostles. He told them, 
“I've been really looking forward to eating this Passover meal with you before my sufferings begin. 
I tell you I shall not eat it again until the time is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.” 
Jesus took the cup, and after he had given thanks, he said, “Take this and share it among yourselves. 
I tell you that I won't drink again of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.” 
He picked up some bread, and after he had given thanks, he broke it into pieces and gave it to them. “This is my body which is given for you; do this in order to remember me,” Jesus told them. 
In the same way after they had finished supper, he picked up the cup and said, “This cup is the new agreement in my blood which is poured out for you.” 
“In spite of this, my betrayer is sitting right here with me at the table. 
For it has been determined that the Son of man will die, yet how disastrous it will be for his betrayer!” 
They began to argue among themselves as to who this might be and who could do this. 
At the same time they also got into a quarrel about which of them was the most important. 
Jesus told them, “Foreign kings lord it over their subjects, and those having power even want people to call them ‘benefactors.’ 
But it should not be so with you! Whoever is highest among you should be like the lowest, and the leader should be like a servant. 
Who is greater—the one who sits at the table, or the one who serves? Isn't it the one who sits at the table? But I'm among you as the one who serves. 
You have stayed with me throughout my trials. 
And I grant to you authority to rule, just as my Father granted it to me, 
so that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.” 
“Simon, Simon—Satan has asked to have all of you to sift like wheat, 
but I have prayed for you that your trust in me may not fail. And when you have returned, encourage your brothers.” 
Peter said, “Lord, I'm ready to go with you to prison, and to die with you!” 
Jesus replied, “I'm telling you, Peter, before the cock crows today, you will deny three times that you know me.” 
Jesus asked them, “When I sent you out without money, without a bag, and without an extra pair of sandals, did you lack anything?” “No, nothing,” they replied. 
“But now, if you have money you should take it, as well as a bag, and if you don't have a sword, sell your cloak and buy one. 
I tell you that this statement in Scripture about me must be fulfilled: ‘He was counted with the wicked.’ What was said about me is now being fulfilled.” 
“Look, Lord, here are two swords,” they said. “That's enough,” he replied. 
Jesus left and as usual went to the Mount of Olives together with his disciples. 
When he arrived he said to them, “Pray that you don't give in to temptation.” 
Then he left them and walked about a stone's throw away, where he kneeled down and prayed. 
“Father,” he prayed, “if you're willing, please take away this cup of suffering from me. But I want to do what you want, not what I want.” 
Then an angel appeared from heaven to strengthen him. 
In great distress Jesus prayed even harder, and his sweat fell like drops of blood onto the ground. 
He finished praying, stood up, and went over to the disciples. He found them asleep, worn out by grief. 
“Why are you sleeping?” he asked them. “Get up and pray so that you won't fall into temptation.” 
While he was still speaking, a crowd appeared led by Judas, one of the twelve disciples. Judas went up to Jesus to kiss him. 
But Jesus asked him, “Judas, are you betraying the Son of man with a kiss?” 
Jesus' followers asked him, “Lord, should we attack them with our swords?” 
And one of them struck the high priest's servant, cutting off his right ear. 
“Stop! No more of this!” said Jesus. He touched the man's ear and healed him. 
Then Jesus spoke to the chief priests, and the officers of the Temple guard, and the elders. “Am I some kind of criminal that you had to come with swords and clubs?” he asked. 
“You didn't arrest me before, even though I was with you in the Temple every day. But this is your moment now, the time when darkness is in power.” 
They arrested him and led him away, taking him to the chief priest's house. Peter followed at a distance. 
They started a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down by it. Peter was there among them. 
As he sat there, a servant girl noticed him in the firelight, and stared directly at him and said, 
“This man was with him.” But Peter denied it. “Woman, I don't know him!” he said. 
A little later someone else looked at him and said, “You're also one of them.” “No, I'm not!” Peter replied. 
About an hour later, another person insisted, “I'm sure he was with him too—he's a Galilean.” 
“I've no idea what you're talking about!” Peter replied. Right then, while he was still speaking, the cock crowed. The Lord turned and looked at Peter. 
And Peter remembered what the Lord had said, how he'd told him: “Before the cock crows today, you'll deny me three times.” 
Peter went out and wept bitterly. 
The men guarding Jesus began to mock him and beat him. 
They put a blindfold on him, and then asked him, “If you can prophesy, tell us who hit you that time!” 
and shouted many other insults at him. 
Early in the morning the council of elders gathered together with the chief priests and religious teachers. Jesus was led before the council. 
“If you really are the Messiah, then tell us,” they said. “Even if I were to tell you, you wouldn't believe me,” Jesus replied. 
“And if I were to ask you a question, you wouldn't answer. 
But from now on the Son of man will sit at the right hand of the mighty God.” 
They all asked, “So are you the son of God?” “You say that I am,” Jesus replied. 
“Why do we need any more witnesses?” they said. “We've heard it ourselves from his own mouth!” 
