PSALMS.
Chapter 40.
For the music director. A psalm of David. I waited for the Lord patiently, and he turned to me—he heard my cry for help. 
He pulled me out of the pit of destruction, out from the mud and the slime. He set me on a rock, and gave me a safe place to stand. 
He gave me a new song to sing, a song of praise to our God. Many people will see and be in awe, and they will put their trust in him. 
Happy are those who trust in the Lord, who do not look for help from the arrogant or from those who worship idols. 
Lord my God, you have done so many wonderful things for us, and you have so many plans for us. No one compares to you. I want to tell all that you've done—blessings too many to count. 
You don't want sacrifices and offerings. Now you have helped me understand—you're not asking for burnt offerings or sin offerings. 
Then I said, “Look! Here I am! I've come to do what is written about me in the scroll of the Book. 
I am pleased to do your will, my God—your Law guides my mind.” 
I have announced the good news of salvation to the whole congregation. I don't keep quiet, Lord, as you know. 
I have not kept the truth of your goodness hidden inside me—I have spoken of your trustworthiness and your salvation. I have not concealed your unfailing love and your faithfulness from the whole congregation. 
Lord, please don't keep back your mercy from me. May your trustworthy love and faithfulness always be my protection. 
For I'm experiencing so many problems—I can't even count them! My sins have piled up so high I can't see over them. They're more than the number of hairs on my head! I feel like giving up! 
Lord, please save me! Hurry, Lord, help me! 
Please defeat and humiliate the people who are trying to kill me; turn back in disgrace those who want to hurt me. 
May they be shocked at their defeat, those who taunted me. 
But may everyone who comes to you be happy and glad; may those who love your salvation always say, “The Lord is great!” 
As for me, I am poor and needy. May the Lord think about me. Help me! Save me! My God, please don't wait! 
