Proverbs.
Chapter 28.
The wicked run away even when no one is chasing them, but the good have the trusting boldness of lions. 
When a country is in rebellion, it has many rulers, but a ruler who is wise and knowledgeable provides strength and continuity. 
When someone poor oppresses the poor, it's like heavy rain that beats down the crops. 
People who reject the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law fight against them. 
Evil people understand nothing about justice, but those who follow the Lord understand it completely. 
Better to be poor and have integrity than to be devious and rich. 
If you keep the law, you're a wise son, but if you keep bad company you shame your father. 
Anyone who gets rich through charging interest and profiteering is only storing it up for someone who is kind to the poor. 
God hates the prayers of people who disregard the law. 
Those who lead good people astray into evil ways will fall into their own traps, but the innocent will receive a good reward. 
The rich see themselves as wise, but poor people with insight see right through them. 
When good people win, everyone celebrates, but when the wicked come to power, people hide. 
People who hide their sins won't succeed, but those who confess and renounce their sins will be shown kindness. 
Blessed are those who always respect the Lord, but those who are stubborn end up in a lot of trouble. 
A wicked ruler lording it over poor people is like a roaring lion or a charging bear. 
An unwise ruler thoroughly extorts his people, but one who refuses to profit illegally will live long. 
Someone guilty of murder will go on running away from it until they die. Don't try and stop them. 
If you have integrity, you'll be kept safe, but if you live deviously, you'll fall. 
If you cultivate the land you'll have plenty of food, but if you chase fantasies you'll end up with nothing. 
If you're trustworthy, you'll be richly rewarded; but if you try to get rich quick, you won't go unpunished. 
Showing favoritism isn't good, but some people will do wrong just for a piece of bread. 
Envious people are in a rush to get rich; they don't realize they'll end up poor. 
Honest criticism is appreciated later far more than flattery. 
A man who robs his father and mother, and says, “It's not a crime,” is one step away from becoming a murderer. 
Greedy people stir up trouble, but those who trust in the Lord will be successful. 
People who trust their own minds are foolish, but those who follow wise ways will be kept safe. 
If you give to the poor, you won't be in need; but if you look the other way, you'll have many curses. 
When the wicked come to power, people hide; but when they fall, the good do well. 
