Job.
Chapter 28.
There are silver mines and places where gold is refined. 
Iron is extracted from the earth and copper is smelted from its ore. 
Miners take lamps into the darkness underground and search for ore as far as they can go in the shadows and the gloom. 
They dig a mineshaft far from where people live or anyone ever goes. They swing from ropes that hang in the pits. 
Bread comes from the earth, but underneath it looks as if it has been turned upside-down by fire. 
Here the rocks contain lapis lazuli and the dust contains gold. 
No birds of prey can see these paths, no falcon's eye can perceive. 
No wild beasts have passed that way; the lion has not walked there. 
Miners attack the hard rock; they overturn the roots of mountains. 
They tunnel through the rock, looking carefully for every precious stone. 
They dam the sources of the rivers, and bring to light what is hidden. 
But where can wisdom be found? Where is the place to gain understanding? 
Human beings do not know the way to wisdom; it is not found among the living. 
The deep waters say, ‘It's not here,’ and the sea says, ‘It's not here either.’ 
It cannot be bought with gold; nor can it be purchased with silver. 
Its value cannot be measured, even with the gold of Ophir; it is more precious than onyx or lapis lazuli. 
Gold or fine glass cannot compare with wisdom; it cannot be exchanged for gold jewelry. 
Coral and crystal are not worth mentioning; the price of wisdom is far above rubies. 
Topaz from Ethiopia can't compare with it; it cannot be bought with the purest gold. 
So where does wisdom come from? Where is the place to gain understanding? 
Wisdom is hidden from the sight of all living things, even the birds of the air cannot see it. 
Abaddon and Death say, ‘We've only heard a rumor of it.’ 
Only God understands the path to wisdom; he knows where it is found. 
For he looks to the very end of the earth; he sees everything under heaven. 
He decided how strong the wind should blow, and regulated the waters. 
He set a limit for the rain and made a path for the lightning. 
Then he considered wisdom. He examined it, gave it his approval, and declared it good. 
He said to humankind, ‘To reverence the Lord is wisdom, and to turn away from evil is understanding.’” 
