Exodus.
Chapter 28.
Have your brother Aaron come to you, along with his sons Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. They of all the Israelites are to serve me as priests. 
You are to have holy clothing made for your brother Aaron to make him look splendid and dignified. 
You are to give instructions to all the skilful workers, to those who have received from me their abilities, as to how to make clothing for Aaron's dedication, so that he can serve me as priest. 
These are the clothes for them to make: a breastpiece, an ephod, a robe, a pleated tunic, a turban, and a sash. These are the holy clothes they shall make for your brother Aaron and his sons so that they can serve me as priests. 
The workers are to use gold thread, together with blue, purple, and crimson thread, and finely-spun linen. 
They are to make the ephod of finely-woven linen embroidered with gold, and with blue, purple, and crimson thread, skillfully worked. 
Two shoulder pieces are to be attached to the front and back pieces. 
The waistband of the ephod is to be one piece made in the same way, using gold thread, with blue, purple, and crimson thread, and with finely-woven linen. 
Engrave on two onyx stones the names of the Israelite tribes, 
six names on one stone and six on the other, in birth order. 
Engrave the names on the two stones the same way a jeweler engraves a personal seal. Then place the stones in ornamental gold settings. 
Attach both stones to the shoulder pieces of the ephod as reminders for the Israelite tribes. Aaron is to wear their names on his two shoulders to remind the Israelites that he represents them when he goes into the Lord's presence. 
Make ornamental gold settings 
and two braided chains of pure gold, and fasten these chains to the settings. 
You are also to make a breastpiece for decisions in the same skilful way as the ephod, to be used in determining the Lord's will. Make it using gold thread, with blue, purple, and crimson thread, and with finely-woven linen. 
It has to be square when folded, measuring around nine inches in length and width. 
Attach an arrangement of precious stones in four rows as follows. In the first row carnelian, peridot, and emerald. 
In the second row turquoise, lapis lazuli, and sardonyx. 
In the third row jacinth, agate, and amethyst. 
In the fourth row topaz, beryl, and jasper. Place these stones in ornamental gold settings. 
Each of the twelve stones will be engraved like a personal seal with the name of one of the twelve Israelites tribes and will represent them. 
Make cords of braided chains from pure gold to attach the breastpiece. 
Make two gold rings and fasten them to the two top corners of the breastpiece. 
Attach the two gold chains to the two gold rings on the corners of the breastpiece, 
and then fasten the opposite ends of the two chains to the ornamental gold settings on the shoulder pieces of the front side of the ephod. 
Make two more gold rings and attach them to the two lower corners of the breastpiece, on the inside edge next to the ephod. 
Make two more gold rings and attach them to the bottom of the two shoulder pieces of the front side of the ephod, near where it joins its woven waistband. 
Tie the rings of the breastpiece to the rings of the ephod with a cord of blue thread, so that the breastpiece won't come loose from the ephod. 
Like this, whenever Aaron enters the Holy Place, he will wear the names of the Israelite tribes over his heart on the breastpiece, as a constant reminder before the Lord. 
Place the Urim and Thummim in the breastpiece of decision, so that they too will be over Aaron's heart whenever he comes into the Lord's presence. Aaron will continually carry the means of gaining decisions over his heart before the Lord. 
Make the robe that goes with the ephod exclusively from blue cloth, 
with an opening in the middle at the top. Stitch a woven collar around the opening to strengthen it so it won't tear. 
Make pomegranates using blue, purple, and crimson thread and attach them all the way around its hem, with gold bells between them, 
having the gold bells and the pomegranates alternate. 
Aaron is to wear the robe whenever he serves, and the sound it makes will be heard when he enters or leaves the sanctuary as he goes into the Lord's presence, so that he won't die. 
Make a plate of pure gold and engrave on it like a seal, “Holy to the Lord.” 
Attach it to the front of the turban using a blue cord. 
Aaron will wear it on his forehead, so that he may take responsibility for the guilt of the offerings the Israelites make, and this applies to all their holy gifts. It must always remain on his forehead in order that the people are accepted in the Lord's presence. 
Weave the tunic with finely-spun linen and make the turban of the same material, and also make sash and have it embroidered. 
Make tunics, sashes, and headdresses for Aaron's sons, so that they will look splendid and dignified. 
Put these clothes on your brother Aaron and his sons and then anoint them and ordain them. Dedicate them so that they can serve me as priests. 
Make linen undershorts to cover their bare bodies, reaching from waist to thigh. 
Aaron and his sons are to wear them when they enter the Tent of Meeting or when they approach the altar to serve in the Holy Place, so that they will not bring guilt on themselves and die. This is a law for Aaron and his descendants forever. 
