John.
Chapter 16.
I've told you this so you won't give up your trust in me. 
They will expel you from the synagogues—in fact the time is coming when those who kill you will think they are doing God a service. 
They'll do this because they have never known the Father or me. I've told you this so that when these things happen, you'll remember what I told you. 
I didn't need to tell you this right at the beginning because I was going to be with you. 
But now I'm going to the one who sent me, and yet not one of you is asking me, ‘Where are you going?’ 
Of course, now that I've told you, you're full of grief. 
But I'm telling you the truth: it's better for you that I go away, for if I don't the Comforter won't come to you. If I go away, I will send him to you. 
When he comes, he will convince those in the world that they have wrong ideas regarding sin, about what is right, and about judgment: 
Sin, for they don't trust in me. 
What is right, for I'm going to the Father and you won't see me any longer. 
Judgment, for the ruler of this world has been condemned. 
There's much more I want to explain to you, but you couldn't stand it now. 
However, when the Spirit of truth comes, he will teach you the whole truth. He doesn't speak for himself, but he only says what he hears, and he will tell you what's going to happen. 
He brings me glory for he teaches you whatever he receives from me. 
All that belongs to the Father is mine. This is why I said that the Spirit teaches you whatever he receives from me. 
In a little while you won't see me anymore, but then a little while after that you will see me.” 
Some of his disciples said to one another, “What does he mean, ‘In a little while you won't see me, but a little while after that you will see me’? and ‘For I'm going to the Father’?” 
They were asking, “What does he mean by ‘in a little while’? We don't know what he's talking about.” 
Jesus realized that they wanted to ask him about this. So he asked them, “Are you wondering about my comment, ‘In a little while you won't see me, but a little while after that you will see me’? 
I tell you the truth, you will weep and mourn, but the world will rejoice. You will grieve, but your grief will turn into joy. 
A woman in labor suffers pain because her time has come, but once the baby is born, she forgets the agony because of the joy that a child has been brought into the world. 
Yes, you're grieving now, but I will see you again; and you will rejoice, and no one can take away your joy. 
When that time comes you won't need to ask me for anything. I tell you the truth, the Father will give you whatever you ask in my name. 
Until now you haven't asked for anything in my name, so ask and you shall receive, and your happiness will be complete. 
I've been talking to you using picture language. But soon I won't use such picture language any more when I speak to you. Instead I'll explain the Father to you very plainly. 
At that time you will ask in my name. I'm not saying to you that I will plead with the Father on your behalf, 
for the Father himself loves you—because you love me and believe that I came from God. 
I left the Father and came into the world; now I leave the world and return to my Father.” 
Then the disciples said, “Now you're talking very plainly and not using picture language. 
Now we're certain that you know everything, and that in order to know what questions people are thinking you don't need to ask them. This convinces us that you came from God.” 
“Are you really convinced now?” Jesus asked. 
“The time is coming—in fact it's just about to happen—when you will be scattered, each of you to your own homes, leaving me all alone. But I'm not really alone, for the Father is with me. 
I've told you all this so that you may have peace because you are one with me. You will suffer in this world, but be brave—I have defeated the world!” 
