Romans.
Chapter 13.
Everyone should obey government authorities, because no one has the power to rule unless God gives permission. These authorities have been put there by God. 
Whoever resists the authorities opposes what God has put in place, and those who do so shall find themselves judged accordingly. 
For rulers don't frighten those who do right, but those who do wrong. If you don't want to live in fear of the authorities, then do what is right, and you'll have their approval. 
Those in power are God's servants, put there for your own good. If you do wrong, you should be frightened—it's not without reason that authorities have the power to punish! They are God's servants, punishing offenders. 
So it's important to do as you're told, not just because of the threat of punishment, but because of what your conscience tells you. 
That's why you have to pay taxes, for the authorities are God's servants taking care of such things. 
Pay whatever you owe: taxes to the tax authorities, fees to the fee-collectors; give respect to those who should be respected, honor those who should be honored. 
Don't owe anybody anything, except love for one another—for those who love their neighbor have kept the law. 
“You must not commit adultery, you must not kill, you must not steal, you must not jealously want things for yourself”—these and the other commandments are summed up in the statement, “Love your neighbor as yourself.” 
Love doesn't do wrong to anyone, so love fulfils the law. 
You should do this because you realize how urgent the time is—that it's high time for you to wake up from your sleep. For salvation is closer to us now than when we first put our trust in God. 
The night is nearly over, the day is almost here! So let's get rid of our dark deeds and put on the armor of light. 
Let's behave properly, showing that we're people who are living in the light. We shouldn't spend our time going to wild parties and getting drunk, or having affairs and acting immorally, or getting into fights and being jealous. 
Instead put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and forget about following your sinful desires. 
