Lamentations.
Chapter 3.
I am the man who has experienced suffering under the rod of God's anger. 
He has driven me away, forcing me to walk in darkness instead of the light. 
In fact he hits me again and again all day long. 
He has worn me out; he has broken me in pieces. 
He has besieged me, surrounding me with bitterness and misery. 
He has forced me to live in darkness like those long dead. 
He has built a wall around me so I can't escape; he has bound me with heavy chains. 
Even when I keep on crying out for help, he refuses to listen to my prayer. 
He has put stone blocks in my way and sends me down crooked paths. 
He is a bear that lies in wait for me, a lion in hiding ready to attack, 
He dragged me from my path and ripped me to pieces, leaving me helpless. 
He loaded his bow with an arrow and used me as his target, 
He shot me in my kidneys with his arrows. 
Now everyone laughs at me, singing songs that mock me all day long. 
He has filled me with bitterness; he has filled me up with bitter wormwood. 
He has broken my teeth with grit; he has trampled me in the dust. 
Peace has been torn away from me; I've forgotten all that's good in life. 
That's why I say, “My expectation of a long life is gone, along with all that I hoped for from Lord. 
Don't forget everything I've suffered in my wandering, as bitters as wormwood and poison. 
I certainly haven't forgotten. I remember it all too well, so I sink into depression. 
But I still hope when I think about this: 
It's because of the Lord's trustworthy love that our lives are not finished, for through his merciful actions he never lets us down. 
He renews them every morning. How wonderfully trustworthy you are, Lord! 
The Lord is all I need,” I tell myself, “so I will put my hope in him.” 
The Lord is good to those who trust in him, to anyone who seeks to follow him. 
It is good to wait quietly for the Lord's salvation. 
It is good for people to learn to patiently bear discipline while they're still young. 
They should sit by themselves in silence, because it's God who has disciplined them. 
They should bow low with their faces to the ground, for there may still be hope. 
They should turn a cheek to someone who wants to slap them; they should take the insults of others. 
For the Lord won't abandon us forever. 
Even though he may bring sadness, he shows us mercy because his trustworthy love is so great. 
For he doesn't willingly hurt people, or cause them grief. 
Whether it's mistreating all the prisoners of the land, 
Or denying someone their rights as the Most High watches, 
Or cheating someone in their legal case—these things the Lord doesn't approve of. 
Who spoke and it came into existence? Wasn't it the Lord who commanded it? 
When the Most High speaks it can be a disaster or a blessing. 
Why should any human being complain about the results of their sins? 
We should look at ourselves, examine what we're doing, and return to the Lord. 
Let's not just hold up our hands to God in heaven, but our minds as well, saying, 
“We are the ones who sinned; we are the ones who rebelled; and you haven't forgiven us!” 
You have wrapped yourself in anger and chased us down, killing without mercy. You have killed without pity. 
You have wrapped yourself with a cloud that no prayer can penetrate. 
You have made us waste and refuse to the nations around. 
All our enemies open their mouths to criticize us. 
We're terrified and trapped, devastated and destroyed. 
Tears stream from my eyes over the death of my people. 
My eyes overflow with tears all the time. They won't stop 
Until the Lord looks down from heaven and sees what's going on. 
What I've seen torments me because of what's happened to all the women in my city. 
For no reason my enemies trapped me like a bird. 
They tried to kill me by tossing me into a pit and throwing stones at me. 
Water flooded over my head, and I thought I was going to die. 
I called out for you, Lord, from deep inside the pit. 
You heard me when I prayed, “Please don't ignore my cry for help.” 
You came to me when I called you, and you told me, “Don't be afraid!” 
You have taken my case and defended me; you have saved my life! 
Lord, you have seen the injustices done to me; please vindicate me! 
You have observed how vengeful they are and how often they've plotted against me. 
Lord, you have heard how they've insulted me, and what they've plotted against me, 
How my enemies talk against me and complain about me all the time! 
Just look! Whether they're sitting down and or standing up, they go on making fun of me in their songs. 
Pay them back as they deserve, Lord, for all they've done! 
Give them a covering for their minds! May your curse be on them! 
Chase them down in your anger, Lord, and get rid of them from the earth! 
