PSALMS.
Chapter 89.
A psalm (maskil) of Ethan the Ezraite I will sing of the Lord's trustworthy love forever; I will tell all generations of your faithfulness. 
For I have said, “Your unfailing love lasts forever; your faithfulness endures as long as the heavens.” 
You said, “I have made an agreement with my chosen one, I gave a binding promise to my servant David: 
I will make sure your lineage lasts forever; I will keep your throne secure for all generations.” Selah. 
All the heavenly beings will sing of the wonderful things you have done, Lord; angels will gather to sing of your faithfulness. 
For who in heaven can compare to the Lord? Who is like the Lord even among the angels? 
The heavenly council are in awe of God; all who surround him are overwhelmed by him. 
Lord God Almighty, who is as powerful as you? In all this, Lord, you are completely trustworthy. 
You rule the restless seas; you calm their stormy waves. 
You crushed Rahab the sea-monster to death; by your power you scattered your enemies. 
The heavens belong to you, and the earth too; you made the world and everything in it. 
You created north and south; Mount Tabor and Mount Hermon celebrate you. 
Your arm is powerful. Your hand is strong. Your right hand is held up high in command. 
Your character of goodness and fairness is the basis for the way you rule; dependable love and trustworthiness are always with you. 
How happy are those who know how to shout your praises, Lord. They live in the light of your presence. 
They celebrate the person you are all day long, so glad that you do what's right. 
They rely on you, their glory and strength; by your grace you lift us up. 
Yes, the Lord is the one who shields us, and our king belongs to the Holy One of Israel. 
Once you spoke in a vision to your faithful servant and said, “I have given strength to the warrior I have chosen from the people to become king. 
I have selected David my servant, and I have anointed him with the oil of my holiness. 
I have placed my hand on him to steady him; and I have made him strong by my powerful arm. 
His enemies will not deceive him; the wicked will not bring him down. 
I will wipe out his enemies before him; I will strike down those who hate him. 
My trustworthiness and unfailing love will be with him, and through me he will be victorious. 
I will extend his rule from the Mediterranean Sea to the Euphrates River. 
He will call out to me, ‘You are my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation.’ 
I will also make him my first-born son, the highest of the kings of the earth. 
I will love him faithfully forever; my agreement with him shall never come to an end. 
I will make sure his royal line lasts forever; his dynasty will continue as long as the heavens endure. 
But if his descendants abandon my laws, if they do not follow my rules, 
if they break my decrees, and do not keep my commandments, 
I will punish their rebellion by beating them with a rod, and their sin by lashing them with a whip. 
However, I will not take away my love from him; I will not break my promise to him. 
I will not annul the agreement I have with him; I will not alter a single word I've said. 
By my holy character I have made a vow to David that I will not lie to him. 
His royal line will last forever, and his dynasty will continue before me as long as the sun endures. 
It will continue forever like the moon, an enduring witness in the heavens.” Selah. 
But you have rejected and abandoned him! You are angry with your chosen king! 
You have broken the agreement you had with him; you have thrown his crown to the ground! 
You have torn down his defensive walls; you have ruined his fortresses. 
Everyone who passes by has robbed him; he has become an object of mockery to the nations nearby. 
You have made his enemies strong; you have made them celebrate their victory. 
You have repelled his sharp sword; you have not helped him in battle. 
You took away his glory; you threw his throne to the ground. 
You have made him grow old before his time; you have totally humiliated him. Selah. 
How long, Lord? Will you hide yourself from us forever, your anger burning like fire? 
Remember me—my life is so short! Why did you bother creating futile humanity? 
There's no one who doesn't die—no one can save themselves from the power of the grave. Selah. 
Where is the trustworthy love you used to have, Lord, that you faithfully promised to David? 
Don't forget, Lord, how your servants are being humiliated! I'm burdened down with the insults of so many nations! 
Your enemies taunt me, Lord, mocking your king wherever he goes. 
May the Lord be blessed for ever. Amen and amen. 
