Jeremiah.
Chapter 12.
Lord, when I complain to you, you always show yourself to be in the right. Even so I still want to present my case to you. Why is it that wicked people do so well? Why do those who are unfaithful to you live so comfortably? 
You planted them, and they've taken root, grown, and produced fruit. They're always talking about you but they don't think of you, even for a moment. 
But you know me, Lord, you see me, and examine what I think about you. Drag off these people like sheep to be slaughtered; keep them apart for the time when they're killed. 
How long will the land have to mourn and the grass in every field be dried up because of the evil of the people who live there? The animals and birds have died out because the people have said, “He doesn't know what's going to happen to us.” 
The Lord says, Once you've become worn out in a foot race against men, how would you win racing against horses? If you trip up in open ground, how would you do in the tangled undergrowth beside the Jordan? 
Even your own brothers and your father's family have betrayed you; they have publicly criticized you. Don't trust them when they talk nicely to you! 
I have given up on my people; I have abandoned the nation I chose. I have handed over the ones I truly love to their enemies. 
They've turned into a wild lion, roaring at me—that's why I hate them. 
My people are like a spotted bird of prey to me with other birds of prey circling to attack it. Go and bring all the wild animals to eat up the carcass. 
Many shepherds have come and destroyed my vineyard; they have trampled down the crops in my field. They have turned my pleasant land into an empty wasteland. 
They have made it into a desert; it mourns before me, lying desolate. The whole country is a wasteland, but no one cares. 
The destructive armies have crossed all the bare desert hills for the Lord's sword destroys from one end of the country to the other. No one has any peace. 
My people sowed wheat but harvested thorns. They wore themselves out but gained no benefit. You should be ashamed of such a poor harvest, caused by the Lord's furious anger. 
This is what the Lord says: When it comes these evil nearby nations who attack the country that I gave to my people Israel, I'm going to uproot them from their land. I'm also going to uproot the people of Judah from among them. 
However, once I have uprooted them, I will have mercy on them again, and bring each one back to their property and their land. 
If they will honestly learn the ways of my people and respect me, making their vows to me, just as they once taught my people to swear by Baal, then they will do well among my people. 
But if they refuse to obey, then I will not only uproot that nation but I will completely destroy it, declares the Lord. 
