PSALMS.
Chapter 68.
For the music director. A psalm of David. A song. Stand up, God, and scatter your enemies. Let those who hate him run away from him! 
Blow them away as if they were smoke; melt them like beeswax in a fire. Let the wicked die in God's presence. 
But those who are right with God are happy, and they celebrate in God's presence, full of joy. 
Sing praises to God! Sing praises to his wonderful reputation! Praise the rider of the clouds—his name is the Lord! Be happy in his presence! 
He is a father to the orphans, a protector of widows. This is who God is, who lives in his holy place. 
God gives those who are abandoned a family to live with. He sets prisoners free with celebration. But those who rebel live in a desert wasteland. 
God, when you led your people out, when you marched through the desert, Selah, 
the earth quaked, and the heavens shook before God, the one of Sinai; before God, the God of Israel. 
You sent plenty of rain to water the promised land; refreshing it when it was dry. 
Your people settled there, and because of your kindness, God, you looked after the poor. Selah. 
The Lord gives the command, and a great army of women spread the good news. 
The kings of the foreign armies are quick to run away, and the women who stayed at home divide the plunder! 
Why are you staying at home? There are ornaments in the shape of a dove with wings of silver and feathers of fine gold to be taken. 
The Almighty scattered the foreign kings like a snowstorm on Mount Zalmon. 
“Mountain of God,” Mount Bashan, with your many high peaks, Mount Bashan, 
why do you look enviously, mountain with many peaks, at the mountain God chose as his home, where the Lord will live forever? 
God's chariots can't be counted; there are thousands and thousands of them. He comes among them from Sinai into his Temple. 
As you ascended to your high throne you led a procession of prisoners. You received gifts from the people, even from those who had rebelled against the home of the Lord God. 
May the Lord be blessed, for every day he carries our burdens. God is our salvation. Selah. 
For us, God is a God who saves. The Lord God provides our escape from death. 
But God will crush the heads of his enemies, the hairy heads of those who continue to sin. 
The Lord says, “I will drag them down from Bashan; I will drag them up from the depths of the sea, 
so that you may walk in their blood. Even your dogs will have their share of your enemies.” 
People watch your processions, God—the processions of my God and King as they go into the Temple. 
The singers are at the front, the musicians at the back, and in the middle girls playing tambourines. 
Praise God, everyone who has come to worship; praise the Lord, everyone who belongs to Israel. 
There is the little tribe of Benjamin, followed by the many leaders from Judah; then come the leaders of Zebulun and Naphtali. 
Display your power, God! Reveal your strength, Lord, as you have done for us in the past. 
Because of your Temple in Jerusalem, kings bring tribute to you. 
Condemn the beasts of the reeds, the bulls and calves! May they be humbled and bring bars of silver in tribute! Scatter the war-loving nations! 
Let Egypt come with bronze gifts; let Ethiopia come quickly and hand over their tributes to God! 
Sing to God, kingdoms of the earth, sing praises to the Lord. Selah. 
Sing to the rider of the ancient heavens, his strong voice sounding like thunder! 
Let everyone know of God's power: how his majesty extends over Israel, how his strength is revealed in the heavens. 
How awesome is God in his Temple! The God of Israel gives strength and power to his people! Praise God! 
