Ephesians.
Chapter 3.
This is why, I, Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ for the sake of you foreigners, 
(well, I'm assuming you've heard that God gave me the specific responsibility of sharing God's grace with you), 
how, by what God showed me, made clear the mystery that was previously hidden. I wrote to you briefly before about this, 
and when you read this you'll be able to understand my insight into the mystery of Christ. 
In past generations this wasn't made clear to anyone, but now it's been revealed to God's holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit 
that foreigners are joint heirs, part of the same body, and in Christ Jesus share together in the promise through the good news. 
I became a minister of this good news through the gift of God's grace that I was given by his power that was at work in me. 
This grace was given to me, the least important of all Christians, in order to share with the foreigners the incredible value of Christ, 
and to help everyone see the purpose of the mystery which from the very beginning was hidden in God who made everything. 
God's plan was that the various aspects of his wisdom would be revealed through the church to the rulers and authorities in heaven. 
This was in accordance with God's eternal purpose that he carried out in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
Because of him and our trust in him we can come to God in total freedom and confidence. 
So I'm asking that you don't get discouraged that I'm suffering—it's for you and you should value that! 
This is why I kneel before the Father 
from whom every family in heaven and on earth receives its nature and character, 
asking him that out of his wealth of glory he may strengthen you in your innermost being with power through his Spirit. 
May Christ live in you as you trust in him, so that as you are planted deep in love, 
you may have the power to comprehend with all God's people the breadth and length and height and depth of Christ's love. 
May you know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, so that you're made full and complete by the fullness of God. 
Now may he who—through his power working in us—can do infinitely more than we ever ask for or even think about, 
may he be glorified in the church and in Christ Jesus through all generations for ever and ever. Amen. 
