Joel.
Chapter 3.
At that time when this happens, when I bring back the exiles to Judah and Jerusalem, 
I will gather together all the nations in the valley of Jehoshaphat and I will judge them there over my people Israel, my inheritance, whom they have scattered among the nations, and have divided up my land. 
They cast lots for my people; they traded boys in payment for prostitutes and girls to buy wine to drink. 
Also, what have you got to do with me, Tyre and Sidon, and all the regions of Philistia? Are you trying to get back at me? If you are trying to pay me back, I will quickly pay you back what you deserve for what you've done. 
You stole my silver and my gold and my best treasures, and you put them in your temples. 
You sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks so they could be sent far away from their land. 
But watch out! I will get them moving from the places you sold them to, and bring them back, and I will pay you back what you deserve for what you've done. 
I will sell your sons and daughters to the people of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabeans, a distant nation. I the Lord have spoken. 
Proclaim this among the nations: “Prepare for war! Call up the mighty warriors! Let all the soldiers get ready and advance! 
Hammer your plough blades and turn them into swords. Turn your pruning hooks into spears. Even the weak should say ‘I am a strong fighter!’ 
Hurry up and come, all nations from everywhere, and gather there. Bring down your warriors, Lord! 
Let the nations get ready, let them come to the valley of Jehoshaphat for there I will sit in judgment on all the nations. 
Start swinging the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Come and tread the grapes for the winepress is full and the vats are overflowing because their wickedness has become so great. 
Huge mobs are in the valley of the Lord's verdict. For the day of the Lord is near in the valley of his verdict. 
The sun and moon will become dark, and the stars will stop shining. 
The Lord will roar from Zion, shouting in a loud voice from Jerusalem, shaking the heavens and the earth. But the Lord will shelter his people, protecting the people of Israel. 
Then you will know that I, the Lord your God, dwell in Zion, my holy mountain, and Jerusalem will be a holy place forever, and no foreigners will ever march through her again. 
At that time new wine will pour down the mountains, and the hills will flow with milk, and all the riverbeds of Judah will run with water. A spring will flow out of the Temple and will water the valley of Shittim. 
But Egypt will become desolate, and Edom a desert wasteland, because of the violence they did against Judah, for in their land they shed innocent blood. 
Judah will be lived in forever, and Jerusalem for all generations. 
Will I pardon and leave unpunished the shedding of innocent blood? The Lord lives in Zion!”
