PSALMS.
Chapter 31.
A psalm of David. For the music director. Lord, you are the one who keeps me safe; please don't let me ever be humiliated. Save me, because you always do what is right. 
Please listen to me, and be quick to rescue me. Be my rock of protection, my strong fortress of safety. 
You are my rock and my fortress. For the sake of your reputation, please lead me and guide me. 
Help me escape from the hidden net that they set to trap me, for you are the one who protects me. 
I put myself in your hands. Save me, Lord, for you are a trustworthy God. 
I hate those who devote themselves to pointless idols; I trust in the Lord. 
I will celebrate, happy in your love that never fails, for you have seen the problems I face and have paid attention to my troubles. 
You haven't handed me over to my enemies; you have set me free. 
Be kind to me Lord, for I am upset. I can hardly see from so much crying. I am completely wasting away. 
Grief is killing me; my life is cut short by sadness; I am falling apart because of my troubles; I am worn to the bone. 
I am ridiculed by my enemies, particularly by my neighbors. My friends dread meeting me; people who see me in the street run the other way. 
I have been forgotten as if I were dead; I'm ignored like a broken pot. 
I hear many people whispering about me; terror surrounds me. They plot together against me, planning to kill me. 
But I put my trust in you, Lord, saying, “You are my God!” 
My whole life is in your hands! Save me from those who hate me and persecute me! 
May you look kindly on me, your servant. Save me because of your trustworthy love. 
Lord, don't let me be disgraced, for I'm calling out to you. Instead let the wicked be disgraced, let them be silent in the grave. 
Shut the mouths of those who tell lies against good people—those who speak contemptuously in their pride and arrogance! 
How wonderful is the goodness you have reserved for those who honor you! In front of everyone you give this goodness to those who come to you for help. 
You shelter and protect them with your presence, far from their enemies who scheme against them. You keep them safe from attacks and accusations. 
Bless the Lord, for he has shown me his wonderful trustworthy love when my city was being attacked 
Terrified I cried out, “I am being destroyed right in front of you!” But you heard my cry when I called out for you to help me. 
Love the Lord, all you who trust in him! The Lord takes care of those who trust him, but he pays back in full those who are arrogant. 
Be strong and be confident, all you who put your hope in the Lord. 
