Deuteronomy.
Chapter 12.
These are the rules and regulations you must make sure to follow the whole time you live in the land that the Lord, the God of your forefathers, has given you to own. 
You are to completely destroy all the pagan shrines where the nations you're driving out worshiped their gods: on the top of high mountains, on the hills, and under every green tree. 
Tear down their altars, knock down their idolatrous pillars, burn down their Asherah poles, and cut down the idols of their gods. Remove any trace of them from everywhere. 
You are not to worship the Lord your God in the way that they did. 
No, you must go to the place the Lord your God will choose from the territory of all your tribes to set up a place where he will live with you. That's where you must go. 
You'll take there your burnt offerings and sacrifices, your tithes and all your offerings—your freewill offerings and offerings to fulfill a promise, along with the firstborn of your herds and flocks. 
That's where, in the presence of the Lord your God, you and your families will eat and celebrate everything you've worked for, because the Lord your God has blessed you. 
You're not to do like we're doing here today. At the moment everyone does what they think is right, 
because you haven't arrived in the land you will own that the Lord your God is giving you and where you will be at peace. 
After you cross the Jordan and settle down in the country that the Lord your God is giving you to possess, and he lets you rest from fighting all your enemies and you live in safety, 
then the Lord your God will choose a place where he will live with you. That's where you are to bring everything I've order you to do—your burnt offerings and sacrifices, your tithes and freewill offerings, and all the special gifts you promise to give to the Lord. 
You will celebrate there in the presence of the Lord your God—you, your sons and daughters, your male and female slaves, and the Levites living in your towns, because they don't have any share in the allotment of land. 
Make sure you don't present your burnt offerings just anywhere you want. 
You are to offer them only in the place the Lord will choose in the territory of one of your tribes. That's where you are to do everything that I order you to do. 
Of course you can slaughter and eat meat wherever you are, anytime you want, depending on how much the Lord your God has blessed you. All of you, whether you're ceremonially clean or not, can it eat it just like you would a gazelle or a deer, 
but you are not to eat the blood—pour that out on the ground. 
In your towns you must not eat the tithe of your grain or new wine or olive oil, the firstborn of your herds or flocks, any of the offerings that you give to fulfill a promise, your freewill offerings, or your special gifts. 
No, you must eat them in the presence of the Lord your God at the place the Lord your God will choose— you, your sons and daughters, your male and female slaves, and the Levites living in your towns. Celebrate in the presence of the Lord your God in everything you do, 
and make sure you don't forget about the Levites as the whole time you live in your land. 
When the Lord your God gives you more land as he promised, and you feel like some meat, and say, “I want to have some meat,” you may can it whenever you want. 
If the place where the Lord your God chooses to live with you is a long way away, then you can slaughter any animal from the herd or flock he has given you, following the regulations I have given you, and you can eat it in your town whenever you want. 
In fact you can eat it like you would eat a gazelle or deer—whether you're ceremonially clean or not, you can eat it. 
Just make sure you don't eat the blood, because the blood is the life, and you must not eat the life with the meat. 
You must not eat the blood; pour it out on the ground. 
Don't eat it, so that all will go well with you and your children, because you will be doing what is right in the Lord's sight. 
Take your holy sacrifices and the offerings to fulfill your vows and go to the place the Lord will choose. 
Present your burnt offerings, the meat and blood, on the altar of the Lord your God. The blood of your other sacrifices is to be poured out beside the altar of the Lord your God, but you are allowed to eat the meat. 
Make sure you obey everything I'm commanding you, so that it may always go well with you and your children, because you will be following what is good and right in the sight of the Lord your God. 
When the Lord your God destroys the nations ahead of you as you enter the country to possess, and you drive them out and settle down in their land, 
make sure you don't fall into the trap of following their ways after they have been destroyed right in front of you. Don't try and find out about their gods, asking, “I wonder how these people worship their gods? I'll do like they did.” 
You must not worship the Lord your God like this, because when they worship their gods they do every kind of abominable thing that the Lord hates. They even burn their sons and daughters as sacrifices to their gods! 
Be careful to do everything I order you to do. Don't add or take away anything from these instructions. 
