Job.
Chapter 5.
Call if you want, but who is going to answer you? Which angel are you going to turn to? 
Surely anger slays the fool and jealousy kills the simple. 
I have seen a fool growing strong, but I immediately cursed his house. 
His sons are never safe; they are crushed in court with no one to defend them. 
The hungry eat everything he has harvested, taking even that protected by a thorn hedge, while others look to steal his wealth. 
For evil doesn't come from the dust; neither does trouble grow from the earth. 
But human beings are born for trouble just as certainly as sparks from a fire fly upwards. 
If it were me, I would go to God and put my case before him. 
He is the one who does amazing, incredible things; miracles that can't be counted! 
He gives rain to the earth and sends water to the fields. 
He exalts the humble, and rescues those who mourn. 
He frustrates the plans of the cunning so that they are unsuccessful. 
He traps the wise in their own clever thinking, and the schemes of twisted people are cut short. 
In the daytime they're in the dark, and they stumble around at noon like it's night. 
But God is the one who saves from their cutting remarks, and the poor from the actions of the powerful. 
As a result those who are helpless have hope, and the wicked have to shut their mouths! 
See how happy is the person God corrects—so don't despise the Almighty's discipline. 
For he causes pain but he provides relief; he wounds but his hands heal. 
He will save you from many disasters; a multitude of evils will not affect you. 
In times of famine he will rescue you from death, and in times of war he will save you from the power of the sword. 
You will be protected from sharp-tongued slander; and when violence comes you will not be afraid. 
You will laugh at violence and famine; you won't be afraid of wild animals— 
for you will be at peace with the stones of the field and the wild animals will be at peace with you. 
You will be certain that your home is safe, for you will go to where you live and find nothing missing. 
You will also be sure that you will have many children; your descendants will be like the grass of the earth. 
You will live to a ripe old age like a sheaf of grain when it is harvested. 
Look, we've examined it, and it's true! Listen to what I'm saying and apply it to yourself!” 
