Proverbs.
Chapter 7.
My son, accept what I say and value my instructions. 
Do what I tell you and you will live. Observe my teachings, valuing them as your main focus in life. 
Tie them to your fingers; write them in your mind. 
Tell wisdom, “You're my sister,” and call insight your best friend. 
They will protect you from the immoral woman, from the prostitute with her seductive words. 
One time I looked through the lattice of the window in my house, 
and I saw among the immature young men one who had no sense at all. 
He was walking down the street near the corner where she lived and took the road passing her house. 
It was at dusk in the evening, as the light was fading and the dark night closed in. 
Then out came a woman came to meet him. She was dressed as a prostitute and had deceptive intentions. 
(She was loud and provocative, never wanting to stay at home. 
One moment she'd be walking the streets, the next she'd be there in the town squares, loitering at every corner.) 
She grabbed hold of him and kissed him, and with a bold face she told him, 
“I sacrificed my peace offering today, and paid my vows. 
That's why I came out to meet you. I was looking for you and now I've found you! 
My bed is made, covered with colorful linens from Egypt. 
I've sprinkled perfume on my bed—myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. 
Come with me, let's make love until the morning. Let's enjoy one another in our love-making! 
My husband isn't home; he's gone on a long trip. 
He took a bag of money with him, and he won't be coming back until the full moon.” 
She convinced him with all that she said; she seduced him with her smooth talking. 
He followed her right away, like an ox to the slaughter. Like a stag that's caught in a snare 
until an arrow pierces its liver, like a bird flying into a trap, he's unaware he will pay with his life. 
So now listen to me, my sons, and pay attention to what I'm saying. 
Don't even think about following her. Don't stray down her road. 
For she has brought down and destroyed a lot of men; she's killed so many. 
Her house leads to the grave—it goes down to the rooms of death. 
