1 Chronicles.
Chapter 27.
This is a list of the Israelites, the family leaders, the commanders of thousands, and the commanders of hundreds, and their officers who served the king in everything related to the divisions that were on duty each month during the year. There were 24,000 men in each division. 
In command of the first division for the first month, was Jashobeam, son of Zabdiel. He had 24,000 men in his division. 
He was a descendant of Perez, and was in charge of all the army officers for the first month. 
In command of the division for the second month was Dodai the Ahohite. Mikloth was his division leader. He had 24,000 men in his division. 
The third army commander for the third month was Benaiah, son of Jehoiada the priest. He was chief and there were 24,000 men in his division. 
This was the same Benaiah who was a great warrior among the Thirty, and was in charge of the Thirty. His son Ammizabad was his division leader. 
The fourth, for the fourth month, was Asahel, Joab's brother. His son Zebadiah was his successor. He had 24,000 men in his division. 
The fifth, for the fifth month, was the army commander Shamhuth the Izrahite. He had 24,000 men in his division. 
The sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira, son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. He had 24,000 men in his division. 
The seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez the Pelonite of the tribe of Ephraim. He had 24,000 men in his division. 
The eighth, for the eighth month, was Sibbecai the Hushathite, a Zerahite. He had 24,000 men in his division. 
The ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer the Anathothite of the tribe of Benjamin. He had 24,000 men in his division. 
The tenth, for the tenth month, was Maharai the Netophathite, a Zerahite. He had 24,000 men in his division. 
The eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benaiah the Pirathonite of the tribe of Ephraim. He had 24,000 men in his division. 
The twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldai the Netophathite, from the family of Othniel. He had 24,000 men in his division. 
This is a list of the leaders for the tribes of Israel: for the Reubenites: Eliezer, son of Zicri; for the Simeonites: Shephatiah, son of Maacah; 
for Levi: Hashabiah, son of Kemuel; for Aaron: Zadok; 
for Judah: Elihu, a brother of David; for Issachar: Omri, son of Michael; 
for Zebulun: Ishmaiah, son of Obadiah; for Naphtali: Jerimoth, son of Azriel; 
for the Ephraimites: Hoshea, son of Azaziah; for the half the tribe of Manasseh: Joel, son of Pedaiah; 
for the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead: Iddo, son of Zechariah; for Benjamin: Jaasiel, son of Abner; 
for Dan: Azarel, son of Jeroham. These were the officers for the tribes of Israel. 
David did not census the men under twenty because the Lord had said he would make Israel as numerous as the stars of heaven. 
Joab, son of Zeruiah, had begun the census but did not finish it. Israel was punished because of this census, and the results were not recorded in the official account of King David. 
Azmaveth, son of Adiel, was in charge of the king's storehouses, while Jonathan, son of Uzziah, was in charge of those in the country, towns, villages, and watchtowers. 
Ezri, son of Kelub, was in charge of the farm workers who worked the land. 
Shimei the Ramathite was in charge of the vineyards. Zabdi the Shiphmite was in charge of the produce of the vineyards for the wine cellars. 
Baal-Hanan the Gederite was in charge of the olive and sycamore-fig trees in the foothills. Joash was in charge of the stores of olive oil. 
Shitrai the Sharonite was in charge of the cattle in the Sharon pastures. Shaphat, son of Adlai, was in charge of the cattle in the valleys. 
Obil the Ishmaelite was in charge of the camels. Jehdeiah the Meronothite was in charge of the donkeys. 
Jaziz the Hagrite was in charge of the sheep and goats. These were all officials in charge of what belonged to King David. 
Jonathan, David's uncle, was an advisor, a man of insight, and a scribe. Jehiel, son of Hacmoni, looked after the king's sons. 
Ahithophel was the king's counselor and Hushai the Arkite was the king's friend. 
After Ahithophel came Jehoiada, son of Benaiah and Abiathar. Joab was the commander of the royal army. 
