Luke.
Chapter 17.
Jesus said to his disciples, “Temptations are unavoidable, but it will be a disaster for those through whom they come! 
For such people it would be better to have a millstone hung around the neck and be thrown into the sea than to cause these little ones to sin. 
So take care what you do. If your brother sins, warn him; and if he repents, forgive him. 
Even if he sins against you seven times a day, and seven times comes back and tells you, ‘I'm really sorry,’ forgive him.” 
The apostles said to the Lord, “Help us to have more trust!” 
The Lord replied, “Even if your trust was as small as a mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, ‘Uproot yourself, and plant yourself in the sea,’ and it would obey you. 
Say you have a servant who does plowing or shepherding. When he comes in from work, do you say to him, ‘Come in and sit down now for a meal’? 
No. You say to him, ‘Prepare a meal for me, get yourself dressed, and serve me until I've finished my meal. After that you can have your meal.’ 
And do you thank the servant for doing what you told him? No. 
Likewise once you've done everything you were told, you should simply say, ‘We are undeserving servants. We just did our duty.’” 
As Jesus continued on his way to Jerusalem, he passed along the border between Samaria and Galilee. 
As he entered a particular village, ten lepers met him, standing at a distance. 
They called out, “Jesus, Master, please have mercy on us.” 
When Jesus saw them, he said to them, “Go and show yourselves to the priests.” On their way there, they were healed. 
One of them when he saw that he was healed, returned to Jesus, shouting praises to God. 
He fell down at Jesus' feet, thanking him. He was a Samaritan. 
“Weren't ten lepers healed?” Jesus asked. “Where are the other nine? 
Didn't anyone else come back to praise God—only this foreigner?” 
Jesus told the man, “Get up and go on your way. Your trust has healed you.” 
Once, when the Pharisees came and asked him when God's kingdom would come, Jesus replied, “God's kingdom doesn't come with visible signs that you can observe. 
People won't be saying, ‘Look, it's here’ or ‘Look, it's there,’ for God's kingdom is among you.” 
Then Jesus told the disciples, “The time is coming when you'll long to see the day when the Son of man comes, but you won't see it. 
They'll be telling you, ‘Look, there he is,’ or ‘Look, here he is,’ but don't go running off after them. 
The day when the Son of man comes will be just like lightning that flashes, lighting up the sky from one side to the other. 
But first he will have to suffer many things, and be rejected by this generation. 
The time when the Son of man comes will be like it was in Noah's day. 
People went on eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day Noah went into the ark. Then the flood came and destroyed them all. 
It will be like it was in Lot's day. People went on eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building. 
But on the day Lot left Sodom, fire and brimstone rained down from heaven and destroyed them all. 
The day when the Son of man appears will be just like that. 
If you're up on the roof that day don't go down and get your things; and if you're out in the fields don't go back home either. 
Remember Lot's wife! 
If you try to hold on to your life you'll lose it; but if you lose your life you'll save it. 
I tell you, at that time two will be in bed at night; one will be taken and the other left. 
Two women will be grinding grain, one will be taken; and the other left.” 
“Where, Lord?” they asked. “Where the carcass is, that's where the vultures gather,” Jesus replied. 
