Proverbs.
Chapter 11.
The Lord hates dishonest scales, but accurate weights please him. 
With pride comes disgrace, but with humility comes wisdom. 
Honesty guides the good, but deceit destroys liars. 
Wealth won't help you on judgment day, but goodness saves you from death. 
The goodness of the innocent keeps them on track, but the wicked fall by their own wickedness. 
The goodness of those who live right will save them, but the dishonest are trapped by their own desires. 
When a wicked person dies, their hopes die with them; what the godless look forward to is gone. 
The good are saved from trouble, while the wicked get into trouble. 
Godless people mouth off and destroy their neighbors, but the good are saved by wisdom. 
The whole town celebrates when good people are successful; they also shout for joy when the wicked die. 
Ethical people are a blessing to a town, but what the wicked say destroys it. 
People who run down their neighbors have no sense; someone who's sensible keeps quiet. 
A gossip goes around telling secrets, but trustworthy people keep confidences. 
A nation falls without good guidance, but they are saved through much wise counsel. 
You'll get into trouble if you guarantee a stranger's loans—you're far safer if you refuse to make such pledges. 
A gracious woman holds on to her honor just as ruthless men hold on to their wealth. 
If you're kind, you'll be rewarded; but if you're cruel, you'll hurt yourself. 
The wicked earn wages that cheat them, but those who sow goodness reap a genuine reward. 
Do what's right, and you will live; chase after evil and you will die. 
The Lord hates perverted minds, but is happy with those who live moral lives. 
You can be certain of this: the wicked won't go unpunished, but the good will be saved. 
A beautiful woman who lacks good judgment is like a gold ring in a pig's snout. 
Good people want what's best, but what the wicked hope for ends in death. 
If you give generously you receive more, but if you keep back what you should give, you end up poor. 
If you're generous, you'll become rich; give someone a drink of water, and you'll be given one in return. 
People curse those who hoard grain; but they bless those who sell. 
If you look to do good, you'll be appreciated; but if you look for evil, you'll find it! 
If you trust in your riches, you'll fall; but if you do good, you'll flourish like green leaves. 
If you cause trouble in your family, you'll inherit nothing but air. Stupid people end up as servants to those who think wisely. 
The fruit of the good is a tree of life, and the wise person saves people. 
If the good are repaid here on earth, how much more will the wicked who sin be repaid! 
