Deuteronomy.
Chapter 25.
If there is some legal argument between two people, they are to go to court to have the case judged, in order to justify the one who is right and condemn the one who is wrong. 
If the person who is guilty is sentenced to be flogged, the judge shall order them to lie down and be flogged before him with the number of lashes the crime deserves. 
They are not to receive more than forty lashes. More than that would be to publicly humiliate them. 
Don't muzzle an ox when it is treading out the grain. 
When two brothers live near to each other and one of them dies without having a son, the widow is not to marry a stranger outside the family. Her husband's brother is to marry her and sleep with her, fulfilling the requirements of a brother-in-law to provide her with children. 
The first son she has will be named after the dead brother, so that his name won't be forgotten in Israel. 
However, if the man refuses to marry his brother's widow, she shall go to the elders at the town gate and tell them, “My husband's brother is refusing to keep his brother's name alive in Israel. He doesn't want to perform the requirements of a brother-in-law for me.” 
The town elders are to summon him and talk with him. If he continues to refuse and says, “I don't want to marry her,” 
his brother's widow is to confront him in the presence of the elders, pull off his sandal, spit in his face, and announce, “This is what happens to the man who refuses to keep his brother's family name alive.” 
From then on his family name in Israel will be called “The Family of the Pulled-off Sandal.” 
If two men are fighting, and one of their wives intervenes to save her husband from being beaten, and she grabs hold of the attacker's genitals, 
you are to cut her hand off. Don't show her any mercy. 
Don't have two different measuring weights in your bag, one that's heavy and one that's light. 
Don't have two different measuring containers in your house, one that's large and one that's small. 
Make sure you always use accurate and true weights and measures. In that way you will have long lives in the country the Lord your God is giving you. 
Anyone who doesn't do so and cheats like this offends the Lord your God. 
Remember what the Amalekites did to you on your way out of Egypt. 
The came out to confront you when you were tired and weary from your journey, and they attacked all those of you who were lagging behind. They didn't have any respect for God. 
Once the Lord your God gives you peace after fighting your enemies in the country that he's giving you to take over and own, you are to wipe out even the memory of the Amalekites from the earth. Don't forget! 
