Job.
Chapter 36.
Elihu continued speaking. 
“Be patient with me just a little while longer and let me explain. I still have something to say on God's behalf. 
I will share my extensive knowledge, and I will prove my Creator is in the right. 
I assure you that what I'm saying are not lies, for I am a man whose knowledge is of the highest order. 
God is mighty, but doesn't despise anyone; he is powerful in strength and understanding. 
He does not keep the wicked alive, but gives justice to the oppressed. 
He always pays attention those who do right, and places them on thrones with kings, honoring them eternally. 
If they are bound in chains, tied down by ropes of suffering, 
then he explains to them what they've done—their arrogant sins. 
He makes them pay attention and orders them to stop sinning. 
If they listen and do what God says they will live out their lives in happiness. 
But if they do not listen they will die a violent death, ignorant of God. 
Those who reject God hold on to their bitterness. Even when he disciplines them they do not cry out to him for help. 
They die in their youth; their lives end among the male temple prostitutes. 
Through suffering God saves those who suffer; he gets their attention through their troubles. 
God is trying to rescue you from the jaws of trouble to a place of freedom and safety, filling your table full of the very best food. 
But you are preoccupied with the fate of the wicked; judgment and justice fill your mind. 
But be careful that your anger doesn't seduce you into mockery; and don't let the size of the ‘bribe’ lead you into sin. 
Will your cry for help sustain you when troubles come? 
Do not long for the night when people are suddenly taken away. 
Watch out that you don't turn to evil! For it's because of this that you are being tested through suffering. 
Look how much power God has! What teacher is like him? 
Who has instructed him what to do? Who can say to him ‘You have done wrong’? 
Instead you should praise him for what he has done, as people have done in song. 
Everyone has seen God's creation, though only from a distance. 
See how great God is—more than we can understand! No one can count his years. 
He draws up the water and distils it into the dew and the rain. 
The clouds pour down rain, falling plentifully on humankind. 
Can anyone understand how the clouds spread out, or how thunder roars from where he lives? 
See how he scatters lightning around him, and covers the depths of the sea in darkness. 
By these actions he rules the people, he provides abundant food. 
He holds lightning in his hands and commands where it should strike. 
Thunder declares his presence—even cattle know when a storm is coming. 
