Acts.
Chapter 2.
When the day of Pentecost came, they were all meeting together in one place. 
Suddenly a noise came from heaven like a roaring wind that filled the whole house where they were staying. 
They saw what looked like separate tongue-shaped flames that settled on each of them. 
All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in different languages as the Spirit gave them the ability to do so. 
At that time there were devout Jews from every nation on earth living in Jerusalem. 
When they heard this noise, a large crowd of them gathered. They were puzzled because everyone heard their own language being spoken. 
They were totally amazed, saying, “Look, these people who are speaking—aren't they all Galileans? 
So how is it that we can all hear them speaking in our own mother tongue? 
Parthians, Medes and Elamites; people from Mesopotamia, Judaea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, 
Phrygia and Pamphylia; from Egypt and the area of Libya around Cyrene; visitors from Rome, both Jews and converts, 
Cretans and Arabians—we hear them speaking in our own languages about all the great things God has done.” 
They were all amazed and confused. “What does this mean?” they asked each other. 
But others jeered and said, “They've been drinking too much wine!” 
Then Peter stood up with the eleven disciples and spoke in a loud voice: “Fellow Jews and everyone living here in Jerusalem: pay attention to me and I'll explain all this to you! 
These men aren't drunk as you presume. It's only nine in the morning! 
What's happening is what was predicted by the prophet Joel: 
God says, ‘In the last days I will pour out my Spirit on everyone. Your sons and daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions. Your old men will dream dreams. 
I will pour out my Spirit on my servants, both male and female, and they will prophesy. 
I will also give you miraculous signs in the heavens above and on the earth below—blood, fire, and swirling smoke! 
The sun will become dark, and the moon will become red like blood before the great and glorious day of the Lord. 
But whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.’ 
People of Israel, listen to this: Jesus of Nazareth was a man confirmed by God to you by the powerful miracles and signs that God performed through him, right here among you—as you well know. 
God, knowing beforehand what would happen, followed his plan and resolved to hand him over to you. By means of the hands of wicked men, you killed him by nailing him to a cross. 
But God raised him back to life, freeing him from the burden of death, because death did not have the power to keep him a prisoner. 
David says of him, ‘I saw the Lord always in front of me. I will not be shaken, for he is right beside me. 
That's why I'm so happy! That's why my words are full of joy! That's why my body lives in hope! 
For you will not abandon me in the grave, nor will you allow your Holy One to experience decay. 
You have revealed to me the ways of life. You will fill me with joy with your presence.’ 
My brothers and sisters, let me tell you plainly that our ancestor David died and was buried, and his tomb is here with us to this day. 
But he was a prophet, and knew that God had promised on oath to place one of his descendants on his throne. 
David saw what would happen and spoke about the resurrection of Christ—for Christ was not abandoned to the grave nor did he experience decay. 
God has raised this Jesus from the dead, and we're all witnesses of that. 
Now he's been exalted to God's right hand, and has received from the Father the Holy Spirit whom he promised, and has poured out what you're seeing and hearing. 
For David didn't ascend into heaven, but he did say: the Lord told my Lord, ‘Sit down here at my right hand 
until I have made your enemies a stool to put your feet on.’ 
Now let everyone in Israel be totally convinced of this: God has made this Jesus, who you killed on a cross, both Lord and Messiah!” 
When the people heard this they were conscience-stricken. They asked Peter and the other apostles, “Brothers, what should we do?” 
“Repent!” Peter told them. “All of you must be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. 
This promise is given to you, to your children, and to all who are far away—everyone the Lord our God calls.” 
Peter went on speaking, giving them much more evidence. He warned them, “Save yourselves from this perverted generation.” 
Those who accepted what he'd said were baptized, adding about three thousand people to the group of believers that day. 
They committed themselves to what the apostles had taught them, and to the fellowship of the believers, “breaking bread” and praying together. 
Everyone was in awe, and many miracles and signs were done through the apostles. 
All the believers were together and shared everything they had. 
They sold their property and belongings, sharing the proceeds with everyone as they needed. 
Day after day they continued to meet together in the Temple, and ate together in their homes. They enjoyed their meals humbly and happily. They praised God, and everyone thought favorably of them. 
Every day the Lord added to their number those who were being saved. 
