Job.
Chapter 12.
Job replied, 
“You really think you're special people, don't you? Obviously when you die, wisdom will die with you! 
But I too have insights, and you're no better than me. Doesn't everyone know the things you've said? 
But my friends laugh at me because I called on God and he answered me: the innocent man who does right has become an object of derision. 
People who are comfortable have contempt for those who are in trouble, ready to push over those who are already slipping. 
Robbers live in peace, and those who make God angry live in safety, trusting their own strength as their ‘god.’ 
But if you ask the animals they will teach you, the birds in the sky will tell you; 
ask the earth and it will teach you, and the fishes in the sea will tell you. 
Which of all these doesn't know that the Lord has done this? 
He gives life to every living thing, life to all humankind. 
The ear distinguishes words just like the palate distinguishes foods. 
Wisdom to distinguish belongs to the old, and the ability to rightly discriminate belongs to those with long experience. 
God has wisdom and power, counsel and understanding belong to him. 
If he tears something down, nobody can rebuild it. If he imprisons someone, nobody can free them. 
If God holds back the waters, everything dries up; if he releases the waters, the earth floods. 
He is mighty and victorious; both deceivers and those deceived are subject to him. 
He leads counselors away stripped of their wisdom, he makes judges into fools. 
He removes the chains of office from kings and makes them wear loincloths. 
He leads priests away stripped of their religious garments, he overthrows the powerful. 
He takes away the advice of trusted advisors, he removes the discernment of the elders. 
He pours scorn upon princes and takes away power from the strong. 
He reveals what is hidden in darkness, and brings into the light the shadow of death. 
He makes nations great and he destroys them; he expands nations and ruins them. 
He removes the understanding of rulers and makes them wander in the wilderness. 
They grope around in the dark without a light. He makes them stagger like drunk people. 
