Leviticus.
Chapter 7.
“These are the regulations for the guilt offering, it is most holy. 
The guilt offering is to be killed where the burnt offering is killed, and the priest shall sprinkle its blood on all sides of the altar. 
All the fat from it shall be offered: the fat tail, the fat that covers the insides, 
both kidneys with the fat on them by the loins, and the best part of the liver, which the priest is to remove together with the kidneys. 
He shall burn them on the altar as a food offering to the Lord; it is a guilt offering. 
Any male among the priests may eat it. It must be eaten in a holy place, it is most holy. 
The guilt offering is like the sin offering; the regulations are the same for both. The priest who presents the offering that ‘makes things right’ is to have it. 
In the case of ordinary burnt offerings, the priest shall have the animal's skin. 
In the same way all grain offerings that are baked in an oven or cooked in a pan or on a griddle is for the priest who presents it, 
and all grain offerings, whether they mixed with olive oil or dry, are for all of Aaron descendants. 
These are the regulations for the peace offering that you may present to the Lord. 
If you offer it in a spirit of thanks, then along with the sacrifice of thanksgiving, you must offer bread, wafers, and well-kneaded cakes of the best flour all made without yeast and mixed or coated with olive oil. 
In addition your peace offering of thanksgiving of breads made without yeast, you shall present an offering of breads made with yeast. 
Present one of each kind of bread of the offering as a contribution to the Lord. It is for the priest who sprinkles the blood of the peace offering. 
The meat of the sacrifice of your peace offering of thanksgiving must be eaten the same day you offer it. Don't leave any of it until the morning. 
If the sacrifice you're offering is to pay a vow or a freewill offering, it shall be eaten on the day you present your sacrifice, but what's left can be eaten the next day. 
However, any meat of the sacrifice still remaining on the third day must be burned. 
If you eat any of the meat from your peace offering on the third day, it won't be accepted. You won't receive credit for offering it. In fact it will be treated as something disgusting, and anyone who eats it will bear responsibility for their guilt. 
If this meat touches anything unclean it must not be eaten; it must be burned. This meat may be eaten by those who are ceremonially clean. 
If anyone who is unclean eats meat from the peace offering given to the Lord, they must be expelled from their people. 
Anyone who touches anything unclean, whether it's from a person, an unclean animal, or an unclean revolting thing, and then eats meat from the peace offering given to the Lord, they must be expelled from their people.” 
The Lord told Moses, 
“Give these instructions to the Israelites. Tell them, ‘You must not eat any of the fat of a bull, a sheep, or a goat. 
You can use the fat of an animal found dead or killed by wild beasts for whatever purpose you want, but you must not eat it. 
Anyone who eats the fat of an animal from a food offering presented to the Lord must be expelled from their people. 
You must not eat the blood of any bird or animal in any of your homes. 
Anyone who eats blood must be expelled from their people.’” 
The Lord told Moses, 
“Give these instructions to the Israelites. Tell them that if you present a peace offering to the Lord you must bring part of it as a special gift to the Lord. 
You must personally bring the food offerings to the Lord; bring the fat as well as the breast, and wave the breast as a wave offering before the Lord. 
The priest shall burn the fat on the altar, but the breast is for Aaron and his sons. 
Give the right thigh to the priest as a contribution from your peace offering. 
The priest as a descendant of Aaron who offers the blood and fat of the peace offering has the right thigh as his share. 
I have required from the Israelites the breast of the wave offering and the contribution of the thigh from their peace offerings, and I have given them to Aaron the priest and his sons as their share from the Israelites for all time.” 
This is the share of the food offerings given to the Lord that belongs to Aaron and his sons since the day they were appointed to serve the Lord as priests. 
From the time they were anointed, the Lord ordered that this be given them by the sons of Israel. It is their share for future generations. 
These are the regulations regarding of the burnt offering, the grain offering, the sin offering, the guilt offering, the ordination offering, and the peace offering. 
The Lord gave these to Moses on Mount Sinai at the time he ordered the Israelites to give their offerings to him in the Wilderness of Sinai. 
