PSALMS.
Chapter 44.
For the music director. A psalm (maskil) of the sons of Korah. God, we have heard with our own ears—our forefathers have told us—all you did in their times, long ago. 
Through your power you drove out the other nations so you could settle our ancestors there; you defeated the nations and you sent our ancestors to occupy the land. 
They did not conquer the land using their swords; it was not through their own strength that the victory was won—it was by your strength, your power, and your presence with them, because you loved them. 
God, you are my King; command victories for Jacob! 
Only through you can we repel our enemies; only in your name can we defeat our opponents. 
I do not trust my bow; I do not have confidence in my sword to save me. 
You are the one who saves us from our enemies; you defeat those who hate us. 
God, we proudly thank you all day long, and praise your name forever. Selah. 
But now you have rejected and disgraced us; you no longer accompany our armies. 
You made us run from our enemies, and those who hate us have taken whatever they wanted. 
You have handed us over like sheep to be slaughtered; you have scattered us among the other nations. 
You have sold your own people for next to nothing, making no profit on the sale. 
You have made a mockery of us before our neighbors, we are ridiculed and laughed at by those around us. 
You have made us a joke to the other nations; they scornfully shake their heads at us. 
We are humiliated all day long; we hold our heads in shame, 
because of all the insults from the people mocking us, because our vengeful enemies are right in front of us. 
All this has happened to us even though we didn't forget you; we haven't been unfaithful to the promises we made to you. 
We have not turned away from you, not in thought, nor in action. 
Even so, you crushed us, and made us into a jackal's den. You have covered us with the darkness of death. 
If we had forgotten the name of our God, or worshiped other gods, 
wouldn't God have been aware of this, because he knows everyone's thoughts? 
But because of you we are killed all day long; we're considered just sheep to be slaughtered. 
Lord, wake up! Why are you sleeping? Get up! Don't turn your back on us forever! 
Why do you look away from us and take no notice of our suffering and misery? 
We lie ruined in the dust, our bodies face down in the dirt. 
Stand up! Come and help us! Save us because of your trustworthy love! 
