Exodus.
Chapter 36.
So Bezalel, Oholiab, and all the other craftsmen with the necessary expertise and given the skill and ability by the Lord, are to work out how to accomplish all the work of constructing the sanctuary as commanded by the Lord.” 
Moses summoned Bezalel, Oholiab, and all the skilled people who had been given special abilities by the Lord, everyone willing to come and do the work. 
Moses gave them everything the Israelites had contributed to carry out the work of constructing the sanctuary. In the meantime the people went on bringing freewill offerings every morning, 
so much so that all the craftsmen who were working on the sanctuary stopped what they were doing 
and went and told Moses, “The people have already brought enough to complete the work the Lord has ordered us to do.” 
Moses gave the order, and an announcement was made throughout the camp: “Men and women, don't bring anything more as an offering for the sanctuary.” So the people were stopped from bringing anything more, 
since there was already more than enough to do all the work necessary. 
The skilled craftsmen among the workers made the ten curtains for the Tabernacle. They were made of finely-spun linen together with blue, purple, and crimson thread, embroidered with cherubim. 
Each curtain was twenty-eight cubits long by four cubits wide, and they were all the same size. 
They joined together five of the curtains as one set, and the other five he joined as a second set. 
They used blue material to make loops on the edge of the last curtain of both sets. 
They made fifty loops on one curtain and fifty loops on the last curtain of the second set, lining up the loops with each another. 
They also made fifty gold clips and joined the curtains together with the clips, so that the Tabernacle was a single structure. 
They made eleven curtains of goat hair as a tent to cover the Tabernacle. 
Each of the eleven curtains was the same size—thirty cubits long by four cubits wide. 
They joined five of the curtains together as one set and the other six as another set. 
They made fifty loops on the edge of the last curtain in the first set, and fifty loops along the edge of the last curtain in the second set. 
They made fifty bronze clips to join the tent together as a single cover. 
They made a covering for the goat hair tent from tanned ram skins, and placed an extra covering of fine leather over that. 
They made an upright framework of acacia wood for the Tabernacle. 
Each frame was ten cubits long by one and a half cubits wide. 
Each frame had two pegs so the frames could be connected to each other. They made all the frames of the Tabernacle like this. 
They made twenty frames for the south side of the Tabernacle. 
They made forty silver stands as supports for the twenty frames using two stands per frame, one under every frame peg. 
Similarly for the north side of the Tabernacle, they made twenty frames 
and forty silver stands, two stands per frame. 
They made six frames for the back (west side) of the Tabernacle, 
along with two frames for its two back corners. 
They joined these corner frames at the bottom and at the top near to the first ring. This is how they made the two corner frames. 
In total there were eight frames and sixteen silver stands, two under each frame. 
They made five crossbars of acacia wood to hold together the frames on the south side of the Tabernacle, 
five for those on the north, and five for those at the back of the Tabernacle, to the west. 
They made the central crossbar which was placed halfway up the frames and ran from one end to the other. 
They covered the frames with gold, and made gold rings to hold the crossbars in place. They covered the crossbars with gold too. 
They made a veil out of blue, purple, and crimson thread, and finely-spun linen, embroidered with cherubim by someone who was skilled. 
They made four posts of acacia wood for it and covered them with gold. They made gold hooks for the posts and cast their four silver stands. 
They made a screen for the entrance to the tent using blue, purple, and crimson thread, and finely-spun linen, and had it embroidered. 
They also made five posts of acacia wood with hooks to hang the screen. They covered the tops of the posts and their bands with gold, and their five stands were made of bronze. 
