2 Thessalonians.
Chapter 2.
Talking about the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and how we're brought together to him, brother and sisters— 
please don't become upset or concerned by any spiritual revelation, or message, or letter supposedly from us that makes you think that the day of the Lord has already come. 
Don't let anyone deceive you in any way, because the Rebellion must come first, and the lawless man be revealed, the one whose end is destruction. 
He is the enemy of God, and proudly sets himself up over everything that is called God and is worshiped. He even installs himself in God's Temple, claiming to be God. 
Don't you remember that I told you all this while I was still with you? 
Now you know what's keeping him in check, because he will be revealed for what he is at the appropriate time. 
For the secret ways of lawlessness are already at work; however he who now restrains it will continue to do so until he is out of the way. 
Then the lawless one will be revealed, the one whom the Lord Jesus will wipe out, blowing him away, destroying him by the brilliance of his coming. 
He (the lawless one) comes to do Satan's work, having all kinds of powers, using miracles, and performing amazing but deceptive displays. 
Using every type of evil trick he deludes those who are on their way to destruction, because they refused to love the truth and so be saved. 
Because of this God sends them a convincing delusion so that they put their trust in the lie. 
As a result everyone who did not trust in the truth will be condemned, for they preferred what is evil. 
But we just have to keep on thanking God for you, brothers and sisters loved by the Lord, because God from the beginning chose you to be saved through the Spirit who makes you right as you trust in the truth. 
This is what he called you to through the good news we shared with you, so that you could participate in the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
So, brothers and sisters, stand firm, and hold on to what you've been taught, whether by what you were told, or through a letter from us. 
Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God the Father (who through his grace gave us eternal confidence and a trustworthy hope), 
encourage you and strengthen you so you can say and do everything that is good. 
