Joshua.
Chapter 9.
All the kings west of the Jordan heard what had happened. These included the kings of the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites who lived in the hill country, the lowlands, and along the coast as far as Lebanon. 
So they gathered to fight together as a united army against Joshua and the Israelites. 
But when the people of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done to Jericho and Ai, 
they decided on a cunning plan. They sent messengers to Joshua, their donkeys wearing worn-out saddles and carrying old wineskins that were torn and patched. 
They put on worn sandals that had been mended and wore old clothes. All their bread was dry and moldy. 
They went to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal and told him and the men of Israel, “We have come from a land far away, so please make a treaty with us.” 
But the Israelites said to the Hivites, “Maybe you live close by. If you do, we cannot make a treaty with you.” 
“We are your servants,” they replied. “But who are you? Where do you come from?” Joshua asked. 
“Your servants have come from a land far away,” they replied. “For we have heard of the reputation of the Lord your God, and reports of all that he did in Egypt, 
and what he did to the two Amorite kings east of the Jordan—to Sihon, king of Heshbon, and Og, king of Bashan, who ruled in Ashtaroth. 
So our leaders and everyone who lives in our land told us: Take what you need with you for the journey. Go and meet with them, and tell them, ‘We are your servants. Please make a treaty with us.’ 
Look at this bread. It was warm when we took it from our houses on the day we set out to come here. But now it's dry and moldy, as you can see. 
These wineskins were new when we filled them, but look at them now—they're split and damaged. These clothes of ours and our sandals are all worn out because the journey took so long.” 
The Israelites tried some of the food. However, they did not consult the Lord. 
Then Joshua made a treaty with them, promising to spare their lives, and the leaders of the assembly swore an oath to guarantee it. 
Three days after they had made the treaty, the Israelites learned that the Gibeonites lived nearby, right among them! 
The Israelites left to go to the Gibeonite towns, and arrived there on the third day. The towns were Gibeon, Kephirah, Beeroth and Kiriath Jearim. 
But the Israelites did not attack them because of the treaty sworn by the leaders of the assembly in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel. At this all the Israelites protested against the leaders. 
But the leaders replied to the people, “We swore to them by the Lord, the God of Israel, so we cannot lay a hand on them now. 
So this is what we're going to do to them. We'll let them live, so that we won't be punished for breaking the oath that we swore to them.” 
The leaders concluded, “Let them live.” So the Gibeonites became woodcutters and water-carriers in service to the entire assembly, as the Israelite leaders had ordered. 
Then Joshua summoned the Gibeonites and asked them, “Why did you trick us? You told us, ‘We live a long way from you,’ but you live right next door to us! 
Consequently you are under a curse. From now on you shall forever be servants, woodcutters and water-carriers for the house of my God.” 
They answered Joshua, “We your servants were told very clearly that the Lord your God had ordered Moses to give you all this land, and that all its inhabitants were to be wiped out before you. So we really feared for our lives because of you. That's why we did what we did. 
Now we're in your hands. Do to us what you think is right and just.” 
Joshua did as he had said. He saved them from the Israelites, so that they did not kill them. 
That day Joshua made them woodcutters and water-carriers in service to the entire assembly and for the altar of the Lord wherever the Lord should choose. That is what they do right up to this very day. 
