1 Chronicles.
Chapter 24.
The sons of Aaron were placed in divisions as follows. The sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
But Nadab and Abihu died before their father did, and they had no sons. Only Eleazar and Ithamar carried on as priests. 
With the help of Zadok, a descendant of Eleazar, and Ithamar, a descendant Ahimelech, David placed them in divisions according to their appointed duties. 
Because Eleazar's descendants had more leaders than those of Ithamar, they were divided like this: sixteen family leaders from the descendants of Eleazar, and eight from the descendants of Ithamar. 
They were divided by casting lots, without preference, for there were officers of the sanctuary and officers of God from both the sons of Eleazar and the sons of Ithamar. 
Shemaiah son of Nethanel, a Levite, was the secretary. He wrote down the names and assignments in the presence of the king, the officials, Zadok the priest, Ahimelech son of Abiathar, and the family leaders of the priests and Levites. One family from Eleazar and one from Ithamar were chosen in turn. 
The first lot fell to Jehoiarib. The second to Jedaiah. 
The third to Harim. The fourth to Seorim. 
The fifth to Malkijah. The sixth to Mijamin. 
The seventh to Hakkoz. The eighth to Abijah. 
The ninth to Jeshua. The tenth to Shecaniah. 
The eleventh to Eliashib. The twelfth to Jakim. 
The thirteenth to Huppah. The fourteenth to Jeshebeab. 
The fifteenth to Bilgah. The sixteenth to Immer. 
The seventeenth to Hezir. The eighteenth to Happizzez. 
The nineteenth to Pethahiah. The twentieth to Jehezkel. 
The twenty-first to Jakin. The twenty-second to Gamul. 
The twenty-third to Delaiah. The twenty-fourth to Maaziah. 
This was the order in which each group were to serve when they came into the house of the Lord, following the procedure defined for them by their forefather Aaron, as instructed by the Lord, the God of Israel. 
These were the rest of the sons of Levi: from the sons of Amram: Shubael; from the sons of Shubael: Jehdeiah. 
For Rehabiah, from his sons: Isshiah (first). 
From the Izharites: Shelomoth; from the sons of Shelomoth: Jahath. 
The sons of Hebron: Jeriah (first), Amariah (second), Jahaziel (third), and Jekameam (fourth). 
The son of Uzziel: Micah; from the sons of Micah: Shamir. 
The brother of Micah: Isshiah; from the sons of Isshiah: Zechariah. 
The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The son of Jaaziah: Beno. 
The sons of Merari: from Jaaziah: Beno, Shoham, Zaccur and Ibri. 
From Mahli: Eleazar, who did not have any sons. 
From Kish: the son of Kish, Jerahmeel. 
The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites, according to their families. 
They also cast lots in the same way their relatives the descendants of Aaron did. They did this in the presence of King David, and of Zadok, Ahimelech, and the family leaders of the priests and of the Levites, the family leaders and their youngest brothers alike. 
