Amos.
Chapter 3.
People of Israel, listen to this message that the Lord has spoken against you—all of you, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt. 
I chose a special relationship with you alone out of all the families of the earth, and so I will punish you for your wrongdoing. 
Can two people walk together unless they have arranged to meet? 
Does a lion roar in the forest before finding its prey? Does a young lion growl from its den if it has caught nothing? 
Does a bird fall into a trap and get caught unless the spring is set? Does a trap spring shut if there's nothing there to catch? 
When the trumpet sounds in the city, shouldn't the people be alarmed? When a disaster comes to a city, isn't it the Lord who does it? 
For the Lord God does nothing without revealing his intentions to his servants the prophets. 
The lion has roared—so who isn't scared? The Lord God has spoken—so who can refuse to speak for him? 
Announce this to the fortresses of Ashdod and to the fortresses in the land of Egypt: Assemble yourselves on Samaria's mountains and see all the turmoil and oppression happening in the country. 
They don't know how to do what is right, declares the Lord. They have stored up in their fortresses what they've taken by violence and robbery. 
As a result, says the Lord, an enemy will surround you, break down your strongholds, and plunder your fortresses. 
This is what the Lord says: Just as a shepherd tries to rescue a sheep from a lion's mouth, but only saves a couple of legs or a piece of an ear, so it will be for the people of Israel living in Samaria—all that will be “saved” will be the corner of a couch and a piece of a leg from a bed. 
Listen! Warn the house of Jacob, declares the Lord God of power. 
For on that day I will punish Israel for their sins. I will destroy the altars of Bethel: the corners of the altar will be cut off and fall to the ground. 
I will tear down their winter houses and their summer houses as well, their houses filled with ivory will be ruined—their many houses will be destroyed. 
