Numbers.
Chapter 27.
The daughters of Zelophehad came to present their case. Their father Zelophehad was the son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh, and was from the tribe of Manasseh, son of Joseph. The names of his daughters were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. They came 
and stood before Moses, Eleazar the priest, the leaders, and all the Israelites at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. They said, 
“Our father died in the desert, but he wasn't one of Korah's followers who joined together to rebel against the Lord. No, he died from his own sins, and he didn't have any sons. 
Why should our family name be lost simply because he didn't have a son? Give us land to own alongside our uncles.” 
Moses took their case before the Lord. 
The Lord gave him this answer, 
“What the daughters of Zelophehad are saying is right. You really must give them land to own alongside their uncles—give to them what would have been allocated to their father. 
In addition, tell the Israelites, ‘If a man dies and doesn't have a no son, give his property to his daughter. 
If he doesn't have a daughter, give his property to his brothers. 
If he doesn't have brothers, give his property to his father's brothers. 
If his father doesn't have brothers, give his property his family's next of kin so that they can own it. This is a legal regulation for the Israelites, given as an order by the Lord to Moses.’” 
The Lord told Moses, “Go up into the Abarim mountains so you can see the land that I have given the Israelites. 
After you have seen it, you will also join your forefathers in death, just as your brother Aaron did, 
because when the Israelites complained in the Desert of Zin, you both rebelled against my instructions to show my holiness before them in regard to providing water.” (These were the waters of Meribah in Kadesh, in the Desert of Zin.) 
Then Moses pleaded with the Lord, 
“May the Lord, the God who gives life to all living beings, choose a man to lead the Israelites 
who will tell them what to do and show them where to go, so that the people of the Lord won't be like sheep without a shepherd.” 
The Lord told Moses, “Call for Joshua, son of Nun, a man who has the Spirit in him, and place your hands on him. 
Make him stand in front of Eleazar the priest and all the Israelites, and dedicate him while they watch. 
Hand over some of your authority to him so that all the Israelites will obey him. 
When he needs instructions he is to go before Eleazar the priest who will ask the Lord on his behalf and find out the decision using the Urim. Joshua will give orders to all the Israelites concerning everything they are to do.” 
Moses followed the Lord's instructions. He had Joshua come and stand in front of Eleazar the priest and all the Israelites. 
Moses placed his hands on Joshua and dedicated him, just as the Lord had told him to do. 
