Ephesians.
Chapter 4.
So I—this prisoner in the Lord—am encouraging you to make sure you live according to the principles to which you were called. 
Don't think proudly of yourselves; be gentle and patient, showing tolerance to each other in love. 
Make every effort to remain one in the Spirit through the peace that binds you together. 
For there's one body, and one Spirit, just as you were called to one hope. 
The Lord is one, our trust in him is one, and there's one baptism; 
there's one God and Father of everyone. He is over all and through all and in all. 
To each of us grace was given in proportion to Christ's generous gift. 
As Scripture says, “When he ascended to the heights he took captives with him, and gave gifts to humanity.” 
(Regarding this: it says he ascended, but that means he also had previously descended to our lowly world. 
The one that descended is the same one who also ascended to the highest heaven in order that he could make the whole universe complete.) 
The gifts he gave were so that some could be apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors and teachers, 
with the purpose of preparing God's people for the work of helping others, to help the body of Christ to grow. 
We grow together until we all reach the state of being one in our trust in and knowledge of the Son of God, completely grown up, measuring up to full maturity in Christ. 
We shouldn't be little children any more, tossed about and blown along by every passing breeze of doctrine, confused by human trickery, led into error by crafty people who deceitfully scheme; 
instead by speaking the truth in love we ought to grow up in everything into Christ, who is our head. 
It's because of him that the whole body operates, every joint holding it together as each individual part does what it's supposed to, and the whole body grows, building itself up in love. 
So let me say this to you—in fact I insist on it in the Lord—that you should no longer live like the foreigners do, in their empty-headed way. 
In the darkness of their minds they don't understand, and they have been cut off from the life of God because they don't know anything and in their stubbornness they don't want to know. 
Because they are past caring they abandon themselves to sensuality, and greedily do all kinds of disgusting things. 
But that's not what you learned about Christ! 
Didn't you hear about him? Weren't you taught concerning him? Didn't you learn the truth as it is in Jesus? 
So get rid of your former lifestyle, that old nature that ruins you through deceptive desires! 
Let yourselves be re-made spiritually and mentally, 
and put on your new nature that God created so you will be like him, right and holy in the truth. 
So reject lies, and tell the truth to each other—for we belong to each other. 
Don't sin by getting angry; don't let evening come and find you still mad— 
and don't give the devil any opportunity. 
Thieves, stop your stealing, and do honest, productive work with your hands, so you'll have something to give to those who need it. 
Don't use bad language. Speak words that will encourage people as necessary, so that those who listen will be helped. 
Don't disappoint the Holy Spirit of God that marked you as belonging to him until the day of redemption. 
Get rid of every kind of bitterness, rage, anger, verbal abuse, and insults, along with all forms of evil. 
Be kind and compassionate to each other, forgiving one another, just as God in Christ forgave you. 
