Numbers.
Chapter 6.
The Lord told Moses, 
“Tell the Israelites: If a man or a woman makes a special promise to become a Nazirite, to dedicate themselves to the Lord, 
they must not drink any wine or other alcoholic drink. They must not even drink vinegar made from wine or other alcoholic drink, or any grape juice or eat grapes or raisins. 
The whole time they are dedicated to the Lord they must not eat anything from a grapevine, not even grape seeds or skins. 
They must not use a razor on their heads during the whole time of this promise of dedication. They must remain holy until their time of dedication to the Lord is finished. They must let their hair grow long. 
During this time of dedication to the Lord they must not go near a dead body. 
Even if it's their father, mother, brother or sister who has died, they are not to make themselves unclean, because their uncut hair announces their dedication to God. 
Through the whole time of their dedication they are to be holy to the Lord. 
However, if someone dies suddenly close to them, making them unclean, they must wait seven days, and on the seventh day when they are made clean again they are to shave their heads. 
On the eighth day they shall take two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the priest at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
The priest will offer one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering to make them right, because they became guilty by being near the dead body. On that day they must re-dedicate themselves and let their hair grow again. 
They must re-dedicate themselves to the Lord for the full time they originally promised and bring a one-year-old male lamb as a guilt offering. The previous days don't count towards the time of dedication because they became unclean. 
These are the rules to be observed when the Nazirite's time of dedication is finished. They are to be taken to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
There they are to present an offering to the Lord of a one-year-old male lamb without defects as a burnt offering, a one-year-old female lamb without defects as a sin offering, and ram without defects as a peace offering. 
In addition they are to bring a basket of bread without yeast made from the best flour mixed with olive oil and wafers without yeast coated with olive oil as well as their grain offerings and drink offerings. 
The priest will present all these before the Lord as well as sacrificing the sin offering and the burnt offering. 
He will also sacrifice a ram as a peace offering to the Lord, together with the basket of bread made without yeast. In addition the priest will present the grain offering and drink offering. 
Then the Nazirites are to shave their heads at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. They shall take the hair from their heads that were dedicated, and place it on the fire under the peace offering. 
Once the Nazirites have shaved, the priest will take the boiled shoulder from the ram, one bread without yeast from the basket, and one wafer without yeast, and place them in their hands. 
The priest will wave them as a wave offering before the Lord. These items are holy and belong to the priest, as well as the breast of the wave offering and the thigh that was offered. Once this is finished, Nazirites may drink wine. 
These are the rules to be observed when a Nazirite promises to give offerings to the Lord regarding their dedication. They can also bring additional offerings if they can afford it. Every Nazirite must fulfill whatever promises they have made when they dedicated themselves.” 
The Lord told Moses, 
“Tell Aaron and his sons: This is how you are to bless the Israelites. This is what they are to say: 
‘May the Lord bless you and take care of you. 
May the Lord smile on you and be gracious to you. 
May the Lord watch over you and give you peace.’ 
Whenever the priests bless the Israelites in my name, I will bless them.” 
