Exodus.
Chapter 38.
Bezalel made the altar burnt offering from acacia wood. It was square and measured five cubits long by five cubits wide by three cubits high. 
He made horns for each of its corners, all one piece with the altar, and covered the whole altar with bronze. 
He made all its utensils: buckets for removing ashes, shovels, sprinkling bowls, meat forks, and firepans. He made all its utensils of bronze. 
He made a bronze mesh grate for the altar and placed it under the ledge of the altar, so that the mesh came halfway down the altar. 
He cast four bronze rings for the four corners of the grate as holders for the poles. 
He made poles of acacia wood for the altar and covered them with bronze. 
He put the poles through the rings on either side of the altar so it could be carried. He made the altar hollow, using boards. 
He made the bronze basin with its stand with bronze from the mirrors of the women who served at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Then he made a courtyard. For the south side of the courtyard he made curtains of finely-spun linen, a hundred cubits long on one side, 
with twenty posts and twenty bronze stands, with silver hooks and bands on the posts. 
Similarly he made curtains placed on the north side in an identical arrangement. 
He made curtains for the west side of the courtyard fifty cubits wide, with ten posts and ten stands. 
The east side of the courtyard that faces the sunrise was fifty cubits wide. 
He made the curtains on one side fifteen cubits long, with three posts and three stands, 
and the curtains on the other side just the same. 
All the curtains around the courtyard were of finely-woven linen. 
The stands for the posts were bronze, the hooks and bands were silver, and the tops of the posts were covered with silver. All the posts around the courtyard had silver bands. 
The curtain for the entrance to the courtyard was embroidered with blue, purple, and crimson thread, and finely-spun linen. It was twenty cubits long by five cubits high, the same height as the courtyard curtains. 
It was held up by four posts and four stands. The posts had silver hooks, tops, and bands. 
All the tent pegs for the Tabernacle and for the surrounding courtyard were made of bronze. 
The following is what was used for the Tabernacle, the Tabernacle of the Testimony, recorded at Moses' direction by the Levites under the supervision of Ithamar, son of Aaron the priest. 
Bezalel, son of Uri, son of Hur, from the tribe of Judah, made everything that the Lord had ordered Moses to make. 
He was assisted by Oholiab, son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan, an engraver, designer, and embroiderer using blue, purple, and crimson thread and finely-woven linen. 
The total amount of gold from the offering that was used for the work on the sanctuary was 29 talents and 730 shekels, (using the sanctuary shekel standard). 
The total amount of silver from those who had been counted in the census was 100 talents and 1,775 shekels (using the sanctuary shekel standard). 
This represents a beka per person, or half a shekel, (using the sanctuary shekel standard) from everyone twenty years of age or older who had been censused, a total of 603,550 men. 
The hundred talents of silver were used to cast the sanctuary stands and the curtain stands, 100 bases from the 100 talents, or one talent per base. 
Bezalel used the 1,775 shekels of silver to make the hooks for the posts, cover their tops, and make bands for them. 
The total amount of bronze from the offering was 70 talents and 2,400 shekels. 
Bezalel used it to make the stands for the entrance to the Tent of Meeting, the bronze altar and its bronze grate, all the utensils for the altar, 
the stands for the courtyard and its entrance, and all the tent pegs for the Tabernacle and the courtyard. 
