Ezekiel.
Chapter 28.
A message from the Lord came to me, saying, 
“Son of man, tell the ruler of Tyre this is what the Lord God says: You are so proud of yourself, saying, ‘I'm a god! I sit on my throne like a god in the middle of the sea.’ But you're only a man. You're not a god, even though you think you are one. 
You even think you're wiser than Daniel and there's no secret that's hidden from you! 
Yes, you have used your wisdom and cleverness to make yourself rich, collecting plenty of gold and silver for your treasury. 
You became wealthy through your superb trading skills, but your wealth only made you proud. 
So this is what the Lord God says: Because you think that you're a god, 
watch as I bring foreigners to attack you. They are more cruel than any other nation. They will use their swords to destroy you and your wonderful wisdom; they will humble your proud glory. 
They will drag you down into the grave. You will die horribly out there in the sea. 
Are you still going to claim, ‘I'm a god,’ to those who are killing you? You'll just be another human victim, not a god, in the eyes of your attackers. 
You will be killed like some vile person by these foreigners. I myself have spoken, declares the Lord God.” 
Another message from the Lord came to me, saying, 
“Son of man, sing a funeral song for the king of Tyre and tell him this is what the Lord God says: Once you were complete and perfect, full of wisdom and flawless in beauty. 
You were there in Eden, God's garden. You wore all kinds of precious stones: carnelian, topaz, and amethyst; beryl, onyx, and jasper; lapis lazuli, turquoise, and emerald. They were placed in gold mountings and settings using skilled craftsmanship, and were made on the day when you were created. 
I gave you the position of guardian cherub, and I anointed you. You lived on God's holy mountain and you walked among the stones of fire. 
You were innocent in everything you did from the day you were created until you were found to be doing evil. 
You were so busy with all your trading schemes that they destroyed you inside, leading you to sin and filling you with violence. So I sent you away in disgrace from God's mountain, and I removed you from your position as guardian cherub from your place among the stones of fire. 
You became proud because of your beauty, you ruined your wisdom because you thought you were so wonderful. So I threw you down to the ground and I made sure kings saw what happened to you. 
By all your sins and your dishonest trading you have made your sanctuaries unclean. So I had fire come from inside you, and it burned you up. I turned you into ashes on the ground as everybody there watched. 
All who know you among the nations are horrified at what happened to you. Disaster has brought you down and you're finished forever.” 
A message from the Lord came to me, saying, 
“Son of man, face towards Sidon and prophesy against her. 
Tell them this is what the Lord God says: Watch out, Sidon, for I'm condemning you, and I will be vindicated by what happens to you. People will know that I am the Lord when I punish her and show my holy character through her experience. 
I'm going to send a disease to plague her, and have people killed in her streets. Those who are killed will fall inside the city as the enemy attacks with swords from every side. Then they will know that I am the Lord. 
The people of Israel will no longer have to put up with these people who are thorns in their side, painful brambles and sharp thorns who treat Israel with contempt. Then they will know that I am the Lord God. 
This is what the Lord God says: When I bring back the people of Israel from the nations where they've been scattered. I will show my holy character through them as everyone watches. Then they will live in their own country, which I gave to my servant Jacob. 
They will live there in safety, building houses and planting vineyards. They will live there in safety when I punish all those around them who treat them with contempt. Then they will know that I am the Lord their God.” 
