Acts.
Chapter 11.
The apostles and brothers in Judea heard that foreigners had also accepted the word of God. 
When Peter arrived back in Jerusalem, those who believed circumcision was still essential argued with him. 
“You went into the homes of uncircumcised men, and ate with them,” they said. 
Peter began to explain to them everything that had happened. 
“While I was in the town of Joppa I was praying, and in a trance I saw a vision. Something that looked like a large sheet was being let down by its four corners from heaven, and it came down to me. 
When I looked inside I saw animals, wild beasts, reptiles, and birds. 
Then I heard a voice that told me, ‘Get up, Peter, kill and eat.’ 
But I replied, ‘Absolutely not, Lord! Nothing impure or unclean has ever entered my mouth!’ 
The voice from heaven spoke again, and said, ‘Don't you call unclean what God has made clean!’ 
This happened three times, and then it was all taken back into heaven. 
At that very moment three men were standing in front of the house where we were staying. They had been sent from Caesarea to see me. 
The Spirit told me to go with them, and not to worry about who they were. These six brothers here also went with me, and we went into the man's house. 
He explained to us how an angel had appeared to him in his house, who told him, ‘Send someone to Joppa, and fetch Simon, also called Peter, 
who will tell you what you need to hear so you can be saved—you and your whole household.’ 
When I started speaking, the Holy Spirit fell on them, just as happened to us in the beginning. 
Then I remembered what the Lord said, ‘John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.’ 
Since God gave them the same gift as he gave us when we trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ, what power did I have to oppose God?” 
After they had heard this explanation, they didn't argue with him anymore, and praised God, saying, “Now God has granted the opportunity to repent and have eternal life to foreigners as well.” 
Now those who had been scattered by the persecution that happened when Stephen was killed, traveled all the way to Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch. They only spread the good news among the Jews. 
But when some of them who were from Cyprus and Cyrene arrived in Antioch, they shared the good news with the Greeks too, telling them about the Lord Jesus. 
The power of the Lord was with them and a large number trusted in the Lord and turned to him. 
News about what had happened reached the church in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch. 
When he arrived and saw for himself how God's grace was working, he was delighted. He encouraged all of them to completely dedicate themselves to God and to stay true. 
Barnabas was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit, and put his whole trust in God. Many people were brought to the Lord. 
Then Barnabas went on to Tarsus to look for Saul, 
and when he found him, he took Saul back with him to Antioch. Over the course of the next year they worked together with the church, teaching the message to crowds of people. It was in Antioch that the believers were first called “Christians.” 
It was during this time that some prophets went from Jerusalem to Antioch. 
One of them called Agabus stood up and gave a prophetic warning by the Spirit that there would be a terrible famine that would affect the known world. (This came true in the reign of Emperor Claudius.) 
The believers decided to send funds to help the brothers that lived in Judea, with everyone giving according to what they had. 
So they did this and sent the money with Barnabas and Saul to the church leaders there. 
