2 Chronicles.
Chapter 17.
Asa's son Jehoshaphat took over as king. He strengthened his country's defenses against Israel. 
He assigned troops to every fortified city of Judah and placed garrisons throughout Judah and in the towns of Ephraim that his father Asa had captured. 
The Lord supported Jehoshaphat because he followed the ways of his father David. He did not believe in the Baals, 
but worshiped the God of his father and obeyed his commandments, unlike what the kingdom of Israel was doing. 
So the Lord made Jehoshaphat's hold on the kingdom secure, and all the people of Judah paid their dues to him. As a result he became very wealthy and highly honored. 
He was sincerely committed to what the Lord wanted. He also he removed the high places and Asherah poles from Judah. 
In the third year of his reign, Jehoshaphat sent his officials Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah to teach in the towns of Judah. 
He sent along with the them Levites named Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, and with them the priests Elishama and Jehoram. 
Taking with them the Book of the Law of the Lord they taught as they went around Judah. They visited all the towns of Judah, teaching the people. 
All the surrounding kingdoms were in awe of the Lord, so that they did not attack Jehoshaphat. 
Some of the Philistines even brought him gifts and silver, while the Arabians brought him 7,700 rams and 7,700 goats. 
Jehoshaphat grew increasingly powerful, and he built fortresses and storehouse towns in Judah. 
He maintained a great deal of supplies in the towns of Judah. He also had troops, experienced warriors, in Jerusalem. 
This is a count of them, according to their family lines: from Judah, the commanders of thousands: Adnah the commander, and 300,000 mighty warriors with him; 
then Jehohanan the commander, and 280,000 with him; 
then Amasiah, son of Zichri, who volunteered to serve the Lord, and 200,000 mighty warriors with him; 
from Benjamin, Eliada, a mighty warrior, and 200,000 with him armed with bows and shields; 
then Jehozabad, and 180,000 with him ready for battle; 
These were the men who served the king, in addition those he assigned to the fortified towns throughout Judah. 
