1 Chronicles.
Chapter 6.
The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
The children of Amram: Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. 
Eleazar was the father of Phinehas, Phinehas was the father of Abishua, 
Abishua was the father of Bukki, Bukki was the father of Uzzi, 
Uzzi was the father of Zerahiah, Zerahiah was the father of Meraioth, 
Meraioth was the father of Amariah, Amariah was the father of Ahitub, 
Ahitub was the father of Zadok, Zadok was the father of Ahimaaz, 
Ahimaaz was the father of Azariah, Azariah was the father of Johanan, 
Johanan was the father of Azariah (he was the one who was serving as priest when Solomon built the Temple in Jerusalem), 
Azariah was the father of Amariah, Amariah was the father of Ahitub, 
Ahitub was the father of Zadok, Zadok was the father of Shallum, 
Shallum was the father of Hilkiah, Hilkiah was the father of Azariah, 
Azariah was the father of Seraiah, and Seraiah was the father of Jehozadak. 
Jehozadak was taken into captivity when the Lord used Nebuchadnezzar to send Judah and Jerusalem into exile. 
The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
These are the names of the sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei. 
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
The sons of Merari: Mahli, and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites listed in order according to their fathers: 
The descendants of Gershon: Libni his son, Jehath his son, Zimmah his son, 
Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, and Jeatherai his son. 
The descendants of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son, 
Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son, 
Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son and Shaul his son. 
The descendants of Elkanah: Amasai, Ahimoth, 
Elkanah his son, Zophai his son, Nahath his son, 
Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son, and Samuel his son. 
The sons of Samuel: Joel (firstborn) and Abijah (second). 
The descendants of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son, 
Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, and Asaiah his son. 
These are the musicians David appointed to direct the music in the house of the Lord once the Ark had been placed there. 
They led out in the music and singing before the Tabernacle, the Tent of Meeting, until Solomon built the Lord's Temple in Jerusalem. They served following the regulations they had been given. 
Here are the men who served, together with their sons: From the Kohathites: Heman, the singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel, 
the son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah, 
the son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai, 
the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah, 
the son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, 
the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel. 
Asaph, Heman's relative, who served beside him on the right: Asaph son of Berekiah, the son of Shimea, 
the son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malkijah, 
the son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah, 
the son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei, 
the son of Jahath, the son of Gershon, the son of Levi. 
To Heman's left served sons of Merari: Ethan son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch, 
the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah, 
the son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shemer, 
the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi. 
The other Levites carried out all the other functions in the Tabernacle, the house of God. 
However, it was Aaron and his descendants who were the ones who gave offerings on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense and did all the work in the Most Holy Place, making atonement for Israel according to everything Moses the servant of God had commanded. 
The descendants of Aaron were: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son, 
Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son, 
Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son, 
Zadok his son, and Ahimaaz his son. 
These were the places they were given to live as their territory allotted to descendants of Aaron, beginning with the Kohathite clan, because theirs was the first lot: 
They received Hebron in Judah together with its surrounding pasturelands. 
But the fields and villages near the town were given to Caleb son of Jephunneh. 
So the descendants of Aaron received Hebron, a town of refuge, Libnah, Jattir, Eshtemoa, 
Hilen, Debir, 
Ashan, Juttah and Beth Shemesh, together with their pasturelands. 
From the tribe of Benjamin they received Gibeon, Geba, Alemeth, and Anathoth, together with their pasturelands. They had a total of thirteen towns among their families. 
The rest of Kohath's descendants received by lot ten towns from the half tribe of Manasseh. 
The descendants of Gershon, by family, received thirteen towns from the tribes of Issachar, Asher, and Naphtali, and from the partial tribe of Manasseh in Bashan. 
The descendants of Merari, by family, received twelve towns from the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun. 
So the people of Israel gave the Levites these towns and their pasturelands. 
They allotted the towns already mentioned by name from the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin. 
Some of the Kohathite families received as their territory towns from the tribe of Ephraim. 
They were given Shechem, a town of refuge, in the hill country of Ephraim, Gezer, 
Jokmeam, Beth Horon, 
Aijalon, and Gath Rimmon, together with their pasturelands. 
From half the tribe of Manasseh the people of Israel gave Aner and Bileam, together with their pasturelands, to the rest of the Kohathite families. 
The descendants of Gershon received the following. From the family of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan, and Ashtaroth, together with their pasturelands; 
from the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh, Daberath, 
Ramoth, and Anem, together with their pasturelands; 
from the tribe of Asher: Mashal, Abdon, 
Hukok, and Rehob, together with their pasturelands; 
and from the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee, Hammon, and Kiriathaim, together with their pasturelands. 
The rest of the descendants of Merari received the following. From the tribe of Zebulun: Jokneam, Kartah, Rimmono, and Tabor, together with their pasturelands; 
from the tribe of Reuben on the east side of the Jordan opposite Jericho: Bezer (in the desert), Jahzah, 
Kedemoth, and Mephaath, together with their pasturelands; 
and from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead, Mahanaim, 
Heshbon, and Jazer, together with their pasturelands. 
