2 Chronicles.
Chapter 23.
But in the seventh year, Jehoiada had the courage to act. He made a pledge with the commanders of hundreds: Azariah, son of Jeroham, Ishmael, son of Jehohanan, Azariah, son of Obed, Maaseiah, son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat, son of Zichri. 
They traveled all over Judah and brought together the Levites from all the cities of Judah and the family leaders of Israel. When they came to Jerusalem, 
they all assembled at God's Temple and made a solemn agreement with the king. Jehoiada announced to them, “Look, here is the king's son and he must reign, just as the Lord promised the descendants of David would. 
Here's what you have to do. One third of you priests and Levites who enter on the Sabbath shall guard the entrances. 
Another third shall go over to the king's palace, while the last third shall be at the Foundation Gate. Everyone else stay in the courtyards of the Lord's Temple. 
No one should enter the Lord's Temple except the priests and those Levites are serving. They can enter because they have been made holy, but everyone else must follow the Lord's commands. 
The Levites shall surround the king, weapons in hand. Kill anyone who enters the Temple. Stay close to the king wherever he goes.” 
The Levites and all the people of Judah did everything that Jehoiada the priest told them. The commanders each brought his men, both those coming on duty on the Sabbath and those going off duty, for Jehoiada the priest had not dismissed any of the divisions. 
Jehoiada the priest provided the commanders with the spears and the large and small shields of King David that were in God's Temple. 
He placed them all, with their weapons in hand, to surround the king from the south side of the Temple to the north side, and near the altar and the Temple. 
Jehoiada and his sons then brought out the king's son, placed the crown on him, presented him with a copy of God's law, and proclaimed him king. They anointed him, and shouted out, “Long live the king!” 
When Athaliah heard the noise of people running and shouting praise to the king, she rushed to the crowds at the Lord's Temple. 
She saw the king standing by his pillar at the entrance. The commanders and trumpeters were with the king, and everyone was celebrating and blowing trumpets as the singers with musical instruments led the praise. Athaliah ripped her clothes and screamed out, “Treason! Treason!” 
Jehoiada ordered the army commanders, “Bring her to the men standing in front of the Temple, and kill anyone who follows her.” Earlier the priest had made it clear, “She must not be killed in the Lord's Temple.” 
They grabbed hold of her and took her to the entrance of the Horse Gate of the king's palace, and killed her there. 
Then Jehoiada made a solemn agreement between himself and all the people and the king that they would be the Lord's people. 
Everyone went to the Temple of Baal and tore down its altars and smashed the idols. They killed Mattan, the priest of Baal, right in front of the altar. 
Jehoiada placed the responsibility for the Lord's Temple in the hands of the Levitical priests. They were the ones whom David had appointed over the Lord's Temple to offer burnt offerings to the Lord, as is required by the Law of Moses, with celebration and singing, as David instructed. 
He placed gatekeepers at the entrances to the Lord's Temple, so that no one unclean for any reason could enter. 
Along with the commanders, the nobles, the governors of the people, and all the people, he led the king in a procession down from the Lord's Temple through the upper gate to the royal palace. There they set the king on the royal throne. 
All throughout the land people celebrated, and Jerusalem was at peace, because Athaliah had been killed by the sword. 
