Numbers.
Chapter 4.
The Lord told Moses and Aaron, 
“Register the descendants of Kohath from the tribe of Levi, according to their family and father's line. 
Count men aged thirty to fifty—all who are entitled to do the work of serving in the Tent of Meeting. 
This work that they are to do in the Tent of Meetings involves the things that are most holy. 
Whenever you move camp, Aaron and his sons will go in, take down the veil, and place it over the Ark of the Testimony. 
On top of this they are to put a fine leather covering, spread a cloth of solid blue over it, and then insert its carrying poles. 
Have them spread a blue cloth over the table of the Presence as well, and put the plates and cups on it, as well as the bowls and jugs for the drink offering. The current bread offering is to stay on it. 
Over everything they are to spread a crimson cloth, next a fine leather covering, and then insert its carrying poles. 
Using a blue cloth, they are to cover the lampstand of light, together with its lamps, wick tongs, and trays, as well as the jars of olive oil used to fill them. 
Then have them wrap it together with all its utensils inside a fine leather covering and place it on the carrying frame. 
They are to spread a blue cloth over the gold altar, cover it with fine leather, and then insert its carrying poles. 
They are to place all the utensils used for the service in the sanctuary in a blue cloth, cover them with fine leather, and place them on the carrying frame. 
Have them clean the ashes from the bronze altar and spread a purple cloth over it, 
and put on it all the equipment used in the services on the altar: the firepans, meat forks, shovels, and sprinkling bowls. Spread over it a fine leather covering and then insert its carrying poles. 
Once Aaron and his sons have finished covering these holy things and all the equipment connected with them, when the camp is ready to move, the priests of the Kohath family are to come and carry them. But they are forbidden to touch anything holy, otherwise they'll die. These are their responsibilities for moving the Tent of Meeting. 
Eleazar, son of Aaron the priest, is to supervise obtaining olive oil for the lamps, the aromatic incense, the daily grain offering, and the anointing oil. He is in charge of the whole Tabernacle and everything in it—all the holy things and equipment.” 
The Lord told Moses and Aaron, 
“Make sure the families of Kohath are not wiped out from the Levites. 
This is what you have to do so that they'll live and won't die by getting too close to something holy. Aaron and his sons must go in and tell each of them what they have to do and what they have to carry. 
But they must not to go in and look at the things that are most holy, even for just a moment, otherwise they'll die.” 
The Lord told Moses, 
“Register the descendants of Gershon, according to their family and father's line 
Count men aged thirty to fifty—all who are entitled to do the work of serving in the Tent of Meeting. 
This is how the families of Gershon will serve in terms of working and carrying: 
Have them carry the Tabernacle curtains, the Tent of Meeting with its fine leather covering, the curtains for the entrance to the Tent of Meeting, 
the courtyard curtains, the curtain at the entrance to the courtyard surrounding the Tabernacle and altar, the ropes, and everything connected with their use. The families of Gershon are responsible for everything required involving these items. 
All that they do is to be under the supervision of Aaron and his sons—all their work and carrying assignments. You are to tell them all they are required to carry. 
These are their responsibilities for moving the Tent of Meeting, carried out under the direction of Ithamar, son of Aaron the priest. 
Register the descendants of Merari, according to their family and father's line. 
Count men aged thirty to fifty—all who are entitled to do the work of serving in the Tent of Meeting. 
This is how they will serve in handling the Tent of Meeting: they are to carry the frames of the Tabernacle with its crossbars, posts, and stands, 
the posts of the surrounding courtyard with their stands, tent pegs, and ropes, all their equipment and everything connected with their use. You are to tell them by name what they are responsible for carrying. 
These are their responsibilities for all their work in moving the Tent of Meeting, carried out under the direction of Ithamar, son of Aaron the priest.” 
Moses, Aaron, and the Israelite leaders registered the families of Kohath according to their family and father's line. 
They counted men aged thirty to fifty—all who were entitled to do the work of serving in the Tent of Meeting. 
The total by families was 2,750. 
This was the total of the families of Kohath—all who were entitled to do the work of serving in the Tent of Meeting. Moses and Aaron registered them in accordance with the Lord's instructions to Moses. 
The families of Gershon were counted, according to their family and father's line, 
men aged thirty to fifty—all who were entitled to do the work of serving in the Tent of Meeting. 
The total by families and father's line was 2,630. 
This was the total of the families of Gershon —all who were entitled to do the work of serving in the Tent of Meeting. They were registered by Moses and Aaron in accordance with the Lord's instructions. 
The families of Merari were counted, according to their family and father's line, 
men aged thirty to fifty—all who were entitled to do the work of serving in the Tent of Meeting. 
The total by families was 3,200. 
This was the total of the families of Merari registered by Moses and Aaron in accordance with the Lord's instructions. 
This is how Moses, Aaron, and the Israelite leaders registered all the Levites according to their family and father's line. 
They counted men aged thirty to fifty—all who were entitled to do the work of serving in the Tent of Meeting and carrying it. 
The sum total was 8,580. 
It was in response to the Lord's instructions that they were registered by Moses. Each of those registered were told what to do and what to carry, as the Lord had ordered Moses. 
