Leviticus.
Chapter 8.
The Lord told Moses, 
“Go with Aaron and his sons, and take their priestly clothes, anointing oil, the bull of the sin offering, two rams, and the basket of bread made without yeast, 
and have everyone assemble at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting.” 
Moses did as the Lord instructed him, and everyone gathered at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. 
Moses told them, “The following is what the Lord has ordered to be done.” 
Moses had Aaron and his sons come forward, and he washed them with water. 
He dressed Aaron with the tunic, tied the sash around him, put the robe on him and then the ephod. He tied the waistband of the ephod around him, fastening it to him. 
Then Moses attached the breastpiece to Aaron and put the Urim and Thummim in the breastpiece. 
He put the turban on Aaron's head and placed the gold plate, the holy crown, on the front of the turban, as the Lord had instructed him to do. 
Then Moses took the anointing oil and anointed the Tabernacle and everything in it to dedicate it all. 
He sprinkled some of the oil on the altar seven times to anoint it and all its utensils, as well as the basin with its stand to dedicate them. 
Moses poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron's head to anoint him and to dedicate him. 
Then Moses had Aaron's sons come forward, dressed them tunics in them, tied sashes around them, and wrapped headbands on them, as the Lord had ordered him to do. 
Moses brought the bull over for the sin offering, and Aaron and his sons put their hands on its head. 
Moses killed the bull and took some of the blood. He used his finger to put the blood on all four horns of the altar to dedicate it and purify it. He poured out the rest of the blood at the bottom of the altar, and consecrated the altar so that it could be used to make people right. 
Moses took all the fat that covers the insides, the best part of the liver, both kidneys with the fat on them, burned all of it on the altar. 
But the rest of the bull—the skin, the meat, and the waste he burned outside the camp, as the Lord had ordered him to do. 
Moses brought the ram for the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons put their hands on its head. 
Moses killed the ram and sprinkled the blood on all sides of the altar. 
He divided the ram into pieces and burned the head, the pieces, and the fat. 
He washed the insides and legs with water and burned the whole ram on the altar as a burnt offering, a food offering to be accepted by the Lord, as the Lord had ordered Moses to do. 
Moses brought the second ram, the ram of ordination, and Aaron and his sons put their hands on its head. 
Moses killed the ram and took some of its blood. He put it on Aaron's right earlobe, on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot. 
Then Moses had Aaron and his sons come forward and put some of the blood on their right earlobes, on the thumbs of their right hands, and on the big toes of their right feet. Then he sprinkled blood on all sides of the altar. 
Moses took the fat, including the fat tail, all the fat on the insides, the best part of the liver, both kidneys with the fat on them Moses took the fat—together with the right thigh. 
He took one loaf of bread without yeast, one loaf made with olive oil, and one wafer from the basket of bread without yeast that was in the presence of the Lord. He placed them on top of the portions of fat and on the right thigh. 
Then he gave them to Aaron and his sons, and waved them before the Lord as a wave offering. 
After this Moses took them back and burned them on the altar with the burnt offering. This was an ordination offering, a food offering to be accepted by the Lord. 
Moses then took the breast, his share of the ordination ram, and waved it before the Lord as a wave offering, as the Lord had ordered him to do. 
Moses then took some of the anointing oil and some of the blood from the altar. He sprinkled both of them on the clothes of Aaron and his sons. This is how he dedicated he dedicated the clothes of Aaron and his sons. 
Moses told Aaron and his sons, “You are to boil the meat at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting, and then eat it there with the bread that is in the basket of offerings for the ordination, as I ordered: ‘It is for Aaron and his sons to eat.’ 
Afterwards you must burn what's left over of the meat and bread. 
You are not to leave the entrance to the Tent of Meeting for seven days until the ordination ceremony is completed, because your ordination will take seven days. 
What was done today was ordered by the Lord as a means of making you right. 
You must stay at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting for seven days, day and night, and follow the Lord's commands so that you will not die, for this is what I have been ordered to do.” 
Aaron and his sons did everything that the Lord had ordered through Moses. 
