PSALMS.
Chapter 102.
A prayer from someone who is suffering and is tired out, pouring out their troubles to the Lord. Lord please hear my prayer, my cry for help! 
Don't hide your face from me in my time of trouble! Turn and listen to me, and answer me quickly when I call. 
My life is disappearing like smoke; my body feels like it's on fire! 
I'm like grass that's dried up, withered away—I even forget to eat! 
All my groaning has worn me out; my bones show through my skin. 
I'm like a desert owl, like a little owl among the ruins. 
I can't sleep. I'm like a lonely bird on a rooftop. 
My enemies taunt me all day long. They mock me and swear at me. 
Ashes are the food I eat; my tears drip into my drink, 
because of your anger and hostility, for you have picked me up and tossed me away. 
My life is fading away like a shadow that lengthens—I'm withering away like grass. 
But you, Lord, reign forever, your fame will last for all generations. 
You will take action and have pity on Jerusalem, for it's time to be kind to the city, the time has come. 
For the people who follow you love its stones; they value even its dust! 
Then the nations will be in awe of who you are, Lord; all the kings of the earth will be in awe of your glory. 
For the Lord will rebuild Jerusalem; he will appear in glory. 
He will pay attention to the prayers of the homeless; he will not disregard their requests. 
Let this be recorded for generations to come, so that people yet to be born may praise the Lord: 
The Lord looked down from above, from the heights of his holy place; he looked down from heaven to the earth, 
to respond to the groans of prisoners, to set free the children of death. 
As a result the wonderful nature of the Lord will be celebrated with praise in Jerusalem, 
when the people of many kingdoms gather together to worship the Lord. 
But as for me, he broke my health while I was still young, cutting my life short. 
I cried out, “My God, don't take my life while I'm young! You are the one who lives forever. 
Long ago you created the earth; you made the heavens. 
They will come to an end, but you will not. They will all wear out, like clothes—you will change them, and throw them away. 
But you are the one who always is; your years never come to an end. 
Our children will live with you, and our children's children will grow in your presence.” 
