Revelation.
Chapter 21.
Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. The first heaven and the first earth had disappeared, and the sea no longer existed. 
I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, descending from God out of heaven, prepared like a bride made beautiful for her husband. 
I heard a loud voice from the throne say, “Now God's home is with human beings and he will live with them. They will be his people. God himself will be with them as their God. 
He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death will never happen again. There will be no mourning or crying or pain ever again for the former world no longer exists.” 
The one who sits on the throne said, “I am making everything new!” He told me, “Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.” 
Then he said to me, “Everything's done! I am the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. To anyone who is thirsty I will give the free gift of water from the spring of the water of life. 
Those who are victorious will inherit all these things, and I will be their God and they shall be my children. 
But anyone who is a coward, who doesn't trust me, who does disgusting things, who is a murderer, who is sexually immoral, who practices witchcraft, who worships idols, who tells lies—their chosen place is in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur. This is the second death.” 
One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls containing the seven last plagues came and spoke to me. He told me, “Come with me. I will show you the bride, the Lamb's wife.” 
He took me in the Spirit to the top of a very high mountain. There he showed me the holy city Jerusalem descending from God out of heaven, 
shining with the glory of God's presence. The light sparkled like that from a gemstone, a jasper, clear and bright. 
The city wall was high and thick, with twelve gates guarded by twelve angels. On the gates were inscribed the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. 
There were three gates on the east, three on the north, three on the south, and three on the west. 
The city wall had twelve foundations, and inscribed on them were the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. 
The angel who spoke to me had a golden measuring rod to measure the city, its gates, and its wall. 
The city was square. The length was the same as the width. He measured the city with the rod, it was 12,000 furlongs. The length, width, and height were all the same. 
He measured the wall and it was 144 cubits thick in human measurements that the angel was using. 
The wall was built out of jasper. The city was made of pure gold that looked like glass. 
The foundations of the city wall were decorated with all kinds of gemstones. The first foundation was jasper, the second sapphire, the third chalcedony, the fourth emerald, 
the fifth sardonyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth, chrysoprase, the eleventh jacinth, the twelfth amethyst. 
The twelve gates were made of pearl, each one made from a single pearl. The main street was made of pure gold, clear like glass. 
I did not see a temple there, because the Lord God the All-powerful One, and the Lamb, they are its temple. 
The city does not need the sun or the moon to shine on it because the glory of God provides its light—the Lamb is its lamp. 
The nations will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth bring their glory into the city. 
The gates of the city will never be shut during the day (and there will be no night there). 
The nations' honor and glory will be brought into the city. 
Nothing unclean will ever enter into it, or anyone who worships idols, or who is a liar—only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. 
