Deuteronomy.
Chapter 27.
Moses and the Israelite elders of Israel gave these instructions to the people: Keep all the commandments I am giving you today. 
The day you cross the Jordan into the country the Lord your God is giving you, set up some large stones and paint them with whitewash. 
Then write all these laws on them once you've crossed over to enter the country that the Lord your God is giving you, a land flowing with milk and honey, just as the Lord, the God of your forefathers, promised you. 
After you've crossed the Jordan, you are to set up these stones on Mount Ebal, having painted them with whitewash, as I've ordered you to do today. 
Also build a stone altar there to the Lord your God, an altar of stones. Don't use any stone tools in its construction. 
Build the altar of the Lord your God with uncut stones and sacrifice burnt offerings on it to the Lord your God. 
That is also where you are to sacrifice and eat your peace offerings, celebrating in the presence of the Lord your God. 
Write all these laws clearly on the stones. 
Moses and the Levitical priests gave these orders to all the Israelites: “Be quiet, people of Israel, and listen! Today you have become the people of the Lord your God. 
So obey what the Lord your God tells you, and follow commandments and regulations that I'm giving you today.” 
That day Moses gave these orders to the people: 
After you've crossed the Jordan, the following tribes are to stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin. 
The following tribes are to stand on Mount Ebal for the curse: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali. 
Then the Levites will shout in a loud voice so Israelite can hear: 
“A curse on anyone who makes a carved image or a metal idol and worships it in secret. It's only an object that someone made, and it's offensive to the Lord!” Everyone says “Amen!” 
“A curse on anyone who dishonors their father or mother.” Everyone says “Amen!” 
“A curse on anyone who moves their neighbor's boundary stone!” Everyone says “Amen!” 
“A curse on anyone who allows a blind man to wander in the road!” Everyone says “Amen!” 
“A curse on anyone who doesn't treat foreigners, the orphans, and widows fairly!” Everyone says “Amen!” 
“A curse on any man who sleeps with his father's wife, for he has disgraced his father!” Everyone says “Amen!” 
“A curse on anyone who has sex with any animal!” Everyone says “Amen!” 
“A curse on any man who sleeps with his sister, the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother!” Everyone says “Amen!” 
“A curse on any man who sleeps with his mother-in-law!” Everyone says “Amen!” 
“A curse on anyone who secretly attacks his neighbor!” Everyone says “Amen!” 
“A curse on anyone who accepts a bribe to kill someone who's innocent!” Everyone says “Amen!” 
“A curse on anyone who doesn't carefully obey all these laws by keeping them!” Everyone says “Amen!” 
