Leviticus.
Chapter 3.
“When you want to give a peace offering and you offer an animal from a herd of cattle, whether male or female, you must present one without any defects before the Lord. 
Put your hand on the head of the offering and kill it at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting. Then Aaron's sons the priests will sprinkle the blood on all sides of the altar. 
From the peace offering you are to bring a food offering to the Lord: all the fat that covers the insides, 
both kidneys with the fat on them by the loins, and the best part of the liver, which you are to remove together with the kidneys. 
Aaron's sons are to burn this on the altar on top of the burnt offering that is on the burning wood, as a food offering, to be accepted by the Lord. 
When you want to give a peace offering and you offer an animal from a flock of sheep or goats, either male or female, you must present one without any defects before the Lord. 
If you are giving a lamb as your offering, you must present it before the Lord. 
Put your hand on the head of the offering and kill it in front of the Tent of Meeting. Then Aaron's sons the priests will sprinkle the blood on all sides of the altar. 
From the peace offering you are to bring a food offering to the Lord made up of its fat: the whole fat tail removed from close to the tailbone, all the fat that covers the insides, 
both kidneys with the fat on them by the loins, and the best part of the liver, which you are to remove together with the kidneys. 
Then the priest is to burn this on the altar as a food offering, a food offering to the Lord. 
If your offering is a goat, you are to present it before the Lord. 
Put your hand on its head and kill it in front of the Tent of Meeting. Then Aaron's sons the priests will sprinkle the blood on all sides of the altar. 
From your offering you are to present a food offering to the Lord made up of all the fat that covers the insides, 
both kidneys with the fat on them by the loins, and the best part of the liver, which you are to remove together with the kidneys. 
Then the priest is to burn this on the altar as a food offering, an offering to the Lord using fire. All the fat is for the Lord. 
You must not eat any fat or any blood. This regulation is for all time and for all future generations everywhere you live.” 
