PSALMS.
Chapter 50.
A psalm of Asaph. The Lord, the Almighty God, speaks! He summons everyone on earth, from the east to the west. 
God shines out of Mount Zion, perfect in beauty. 
Our God arrives, and does not stay quiet. Fire flames before him, burning everything up; a violent storm rages around him. 
He summons the heavens above and the earth to witness the judgment of his people. 
“Bring me those who trust in me—those who confirmed the agreement with me through sacrifice.” 
The heavens declare his decisions are right, for God himself is the judge. Selah. 
“My people, listen to what I have to say. I am bringing charges against you, Israel. I am God, your God! 
I'm not complaining about your sacrifices or burnt offerings that you offer all the time. 
I do not require bulls from your barns or goats from your pens, 
for I own all the animals of the forest, and the cattle on a thousand hills belong to me. 
I know every bird of the mountains; all living things in the fields are mine. 
If I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you, for the earth and everything in it are mine. 
Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? 
Give an offering of thanks to God; keep the promises you made to the Most High, 
and call on me when you're in trouble. I will rescue you, and you will thank me.” 
But to the wicked God says, “What's the point of mechanically repeating my laws or making empty promises about obeying the agreement? 
You hate my discipline, and you toss my words away, leaving them behind you. 
When you see people stealing, you admire them; you associate with adulterers. 
With your mouth you say evil things; you use your tongue to spread lies. 
You sit there and speak against your brother, slandering your own mother's son. 
I kept quiet when you did these things. You thought I was someone just like you. But now I confront you, and bring my charges against you. 
Think again, you people who dismiss God, or I will tear you apart, and no-one will be able to save you. 
But those who give an offering of thanks honor me, and to those who follow the right I will show them the salvation of God.” 
