Proverbs.
Chapter 3.
My son, don't forget my instructions. Always keep my commands in mind. 
Then you will live a long time, and have a full life. 
Hold on to kindness and truth. Tie them around your neck; write them in your mind. 
That way you'll gain a good reputation and be appreciated by both God and people. 
Put your trust totally in the Lord—don't rely on what you think you know! 
Remember him in everything you do, and he'll show you the right way. 
Don't think you're wise—respect God and avoid evil. 
Then you will have healed and be made strong. 
Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the firstfruits of all the crops you grow. 
Then your barns will be filled with produce, and your vats will overflow with new wine. 
My son, don't reject the Lord's discipline or resent it when he corrects you, 
for the Lord corrects those he loves, as a father corrects a son who pleases him. 
Happy are those who find wisdom and gain understanding, 
for wisdom is worth more than silver, and pays better than gold. 
She is more valuable than rubies—everything you could ever want just doesn't compare! 
She offers long life in one hand, and riches and honor in the other. 
She brings true happiness, and leads to peaceful prosperity. 
Wisdom is a tree of life to everyone who embraces her, blessing those who accept her. 
It was through wisdom that the Lord created the earth, and through understanding he set the heavens in place. 
It was through his knowledge the waters of the deep were broken open, and the clouds sent down the dew. 
My son, hold on to good judgment and wise decisions—don't let them out of your sight, 
for they will be life to you, and an ornament for your neck. 
You will be able to walk confidently on your way, and you won't trip up. 
When you rest, you won't be afraid; when you lie down, your sleep will be sweet. 
You won't be afraid of a sudden panic, or of disasters that hit the wicked, 
for the Lord will be the one you can trust in, and he will prevent you being caught in a trap. 
Don't hold back good from those who deserve it when it's something you have the power to do. 
Don't tell your neighbor, “Go away. Come back tomorrow and then I'll give it to you,” when you've already got it. 
Don't plan to harm your neighbor who lives nearby and trusts you. 
Don't quarrel with anybody for no reason, when they haven't done anything to hurt you. 
Don't be jealous of violent people—don't choose to follow their example! 
For the Lord hates deceitful people, but he is a friend to those who do what is good. 
The houses of the wicked are cursed by the Lord, but he blesses the homes of those who live right. 
He mocks those who mock, but he is kind to the humble. 
The wise will receive honor, but fools are held up in disgrace. 
