Job.
Chapter 13.
Look, I've seen all this with my own eyes, and heard it with my own ears, and I understand it. 
I know what you know. You're no better than me. 
But I would still like to speak to the Almighty: I want to prove myself to God! 
As for you, you cover things up by telling lies! You are all like doctors who can't heal anyone! 
I wish you would all be quiet! That would be the wisest thing for you to do. 
Listen to my argument and pay attention to what I have to say. 
Do you think you can tell lies to defend God? Are you talking deceitfully on his behalf? 
Or are you wanting to show God favoritism? Are you going to argue God's case for him? 
Will you be found to be doing good when God examines you? Can you fool him as if he's a human being? 
No, he will definitely rebuke you if you secretly show him favoritism! 
Isn't his majesty terrifying to you? Aren't you so afraid of him you're paralyzed? 
Your sayings are as helpful as ashes; your arguments as weak as clay. 
Be quiet. Don't talk to me. Let me speak, come what may. 
I take responsibility for myself; I am ready to risk my life. 
Even though he kills me, I will hope in him. I am still going to defend my ways before him. 
By doing this I will be saved since no godless person could come before him. 
Listen carefully to what I say, pay attention to my explanation. 
Look, I've prepared my case—I know I will be proved right. 
Who wants to argue with me? If I'm proved wrong, I'm prepared to be quiet and die. 
God, I have two requests, then I can face you. 
Stop beating me, and stop terrifying me. 
Then call, and I will answer. Or let me speak, and then answer me. 
What are my sins and iniquities? Show me what have I done wrong; how have I rebelled against you? 
Why are you unfriendly towards me? Why do you treat me as your enemy? 
Would you frighten a leaf blown by the wind or hunt down a piece of straw? 
For you write down bitter things against me and pay me back for the sins of my youth. 
You put my feet in the stocks. You keep an eye on every step I take. You even inspect my footprints! 
I'm falling apart like something rotten, like moth-eaten clothes. 
