Malachi.
Chapter 1.
The burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi. 
I have loved you, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob’s brother? saith the Lord: Yet I loved Jacob, 
And I hated Esau, And laid his mountains and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness. 
Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, But we will return and build the desolate places; Thus saith the Lord of hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down; And they shall call them, The border of wickedness, And, The people against whom the Lord hath indignation for ever. 
And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, The Lord will be magnified from the border of Israel. 
A son honoureth his father, and a servant his master: If then I be a father, where is mine honour? And if I be a master, where is my fear? Saith the Lord of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? 
Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar; And ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say, The table of the Lord is contemptible. 
And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And if ye offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? Offer it now unto thy governor; Will he be pleased with thee, or accept thy person? saith the Lord of hosts. 
And now, I pray you, beseech God that he will be gracious unto us: This hath been by your means: Will he regard your persons? saith the Lord of hosts. 
Who is there even among you that would shut the doors for nought? Neither do ye kindle fire on mine altar for nought. I have no pleasure in you, saith the Lord of hosts, Neither will I accept an offering at your hand. 
For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same My name shall be great among the Gentiles; And in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering: For my name shall be great among the heathen, saith the Lord of hosts. 
But ye have profaned it, in that ye say, The table of the Lord is polluted; And the fruit thereof, even his meat, is contemptible. 
Ye said also, Behold, what a weariness is it! And ye have snuffed at it, saith the Lord of hosts; And ye brought that which was torn, and the lame, and the sick; Thus ye brought an offering: Should I accept this of your hand? saith the Lord. 
But cursed be the deceiver, which hath in his flock a male, And voweth, and sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing: For I am a great King, saith the Lord of hosts, And my name is dreadful among the heathen. 
