Psalms.
Chapter 31.
To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David. In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust; Let me never be ashamed: Deliver me in thy righteousness. 
Bow down thine ear to me; deliver me speedily: Be thou my strong rock, For a house of defence to save me. 
For thou art my rock and my fortress; Therefore for thy name’s sake lead me, and guide me. 
Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me: For thou art my strength. 
Into thine hand I commit my spirit: Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. 
I have hated them that regard lying vanities: But I trust in the Lord. 
I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: For thou hast considered my trouble; Thou hast known my soul in adversities; 
And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: Thou hast set my feet in a large room. 
Have mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am in trouble: Mine eye is consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly. 
For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: My strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed. 
I was a reproach among all mine enemies, But especially among my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: They that did see me without fled from me. 
I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel. 
For I have heard the slander of many: Fear was on every side: While they took counsel together against me, They devised to take away my life. 
But I trusted in thee, O Lord: I said, Thou art my God. 
My times are in thy hand: Deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me. 
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: Save me for thy mercy’s sake. 
Let me not be ashamed, O Lord; for I have called upon thee: Let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave. 
Let the lying lips be put to silence; Which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous. 
O how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee; Which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee Before the sons of men! 
Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the pride of man: Thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues. 
Blessed be the Lord: for he hath shewed me his marvellous kindness in a strong city. 
For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes: Nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto thee. 
O love the Lord, all ye his saints: For the Lord preserveth the faithful, And plentifully rewardeth the proud doer. 
Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, All ye that hope in the Lord. 
