Proverbs.
Chapter 13.
A wise son heareth his father’s instruction: But a scorner heareth not rebuke. 
A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: But the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence. 
He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: But he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction. 
The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: But the soul of the diligent shall be made fat. 
A righteous man hateth lying: But a wicked man is loathsome, and cometh to shame. 
Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way: But wickedness overthroweth the sinner. 
There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: There is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches. 
The ransom of a man’s life are his riches: But the poor heareth not rebuke. 
The light of the righteous rejoiceth: But the lamp of the wicked shall be put out. 
Only by pride cometh contention: But with the well advised is wisdom. 
Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: But he that gathereth by labour shall increase. 
Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: But when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life. 
Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: But he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded. 
The law of the wise is a fountain of life, To depart from the snares of death. 
Good understanding giveth favour: But the way of transgressors is hard. 
Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge: But a fool layeth open his folly. 
A wicked messenger falleth into mischief: But a faithful ambassador is health. 
Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction: But he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured. 
The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: But it is abomination to fools to depart from evil. 
He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: But a companion of fools shall be destroyed. 
Evil pursueth sinners: But to the righteous good shall be repayed. 
A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children’s children: And the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just. 
Much food is in the tillage of the poor: But there is that is destroyed for want of judgment. 
He that spareth his rod hateth his son: But he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes. 
The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: But the belly of the wicked shall want. 
