Proverbs.
Chapter 29.
He, that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, Shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. 
When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: But when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn. 
Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father: But he that keepeth company with harlots spendeth his substance. 
The king by judgment stablisheth the land: But he that receiveth gifts overthroweth it. 
A man that flattereth his neighbour Spreadeth a net for his feet. 
In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare: But the righteous doth sing and rejoice. 
The righteous considereth the cause of the poor: But the wicked regardeth not to know it. 
Scornful men bring a city into a snare: But wise men turn away wrath. 
If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, Whether he rage or laugh, there is no rest. 
The bloodthirsty hate the upright: But the just seek his soul. 
A fool uttereth all his mind: But a wise man keepeth it in till afterwards. 
If a ruler hearken to lies, All his servants are wicked. 
The poor and the deceitful man meet together: The Lord lighteneth both their eyes. 
The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, His throne shall be established for ever. 
The rod and reproof give wisdom: But a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. 
When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increaseth: But the righteous shall see their fall. 
Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest; Yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul. 
Where there is no vision, the people perish: But he that keepeth the law, happy is he. 
A servant will not be corrected by words: For though he understand he will not answer. 
Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? There is more hope of a fool than of him. 
He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child Shall have him become his son at the length. 
An angry man stirreth up strife, And a furious man aboundeth in transgression. 
A man’s pride shall bring him low: But honour shall uphold the humble in spirit. 
Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul: He heareth cursing, and bewrayeth it not. 
The fear of man bringeth a snare: But whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. 
Many seek the ruler’s favour; But every man’s judgment cometh from the Lord. 
An unjust man is an abomination to the just: And he that is upright in the way is abomination to the wicked. 
