The Rest of the Chapters of the Book of Esther, Which Are Found Neither in the Hebrew, nor in the Chaldee.
Chapter 1.
In the second year of the reign of Artaxerxes the great, in the first day of the month Nisan, Mardocheus the son of Jairus, the son of Semei, the son of Cisai, of the tribe of Benjamin, had a dream; 
who was a Jew, and dwelt in the city of Susa, a great man, being a servitor in the king’s court. 
He was also one of the captives, which Nabuchodonosor the king of Babylon carried from Jerusalem with Jechonias king of Judea; and this was his dream: 
behold a noise of a tumult, with thunder, and earthquakes, and uproar in the land: 
and behold, two great dragons came forth ready to fight, and their cry was great. 
And at their cry all nations were prepared to battle, that they might fight against the righteous people. 
And lo, a day of darkness and obscurity, tribulation and anguish, affliction and great uproar, upon the earth. 
And the whole righteous nation was troubled, fearing their own evils, and were ready to perish. 
Then they cried unto God, and upon their cry, as it were from a little fountain, was made a great flood, even much water. 
The light and the sun rose up, and the lowly were exalted, and devoured the glorious. 
Now when Mardocheus, who had seen this dream, and what God had determined to do, was awake, he bare this dream in mind, and until night by all means was desirous to know it. 
And Mardocheus took his rest in the court with Gabatha and Tharra, the two eunuchs of the king, and keepers of the palace. 
And he heard their devices, and searched out their purposes, and learned that they were about to lay hands upon Artaxerxes the king; and so he certified the king of them. 
Then the king examined the two eunuchs, and after that they had confessed it, they were strangled. 
And the king made a record of these things, and Mardocheus also wrote thereof. 
So the king commanded Mardocheus to serve in the court, and for this he rewarded him. 
Howbeit Aman the son of Amadathus the Agagite, who was in great honour with the king, sought to molest Mardocheus and his people because of the two eunuchs of the king. 
