THE EPISTLE OF PAUL THE APOSTLE TO THE PHILIPPIANS.
Chapter 1.
Paul and Timotheus the servauntes of Iesu Christ To all the sainctes in Christ Iesu which are at Philippos with the Bisshops and Deacons. 
Grace be with you and peace from God oure father and from the Lorde Iesus Christ. 
I thanke my God with all remembraunce of you 
all wayes in all my prayers for you and praye with gladnes 
because of the fellowshyp which ye have in the gospell from the fyrst daye vnto now: 
and am suerly certified of this that he which beganne a good worke in you shall go forthe with it vntyll the daye of Iesus Christ 
as it becometh me so to iudge of you all because I have you in my herte and have you also every one companions of grace with me even in my bondes as I defende and stablysshe the gospell. 
For God beareth me recorde how greatly I longe after you all from the very herte rote in Iesus Christ. 
And this I praye that youre love maye increace more and more in knowledge and in all fealinge 
that ye myght accepte thinges most excellent that ye myght be pure and soche as shuld hurte no manes conscience vntyll the daye of Christ 
filled with the frutes of rightewesnes which frutes come by Iesus Christ vnto the glory and laude of God. 
I wolde ye vnderstode brethern that my busynes is happened vnto the greater furtherynge of the gospell. 
So that my bondes in Christ are manyfest thorow out all the iudgement hall and in all other places: 
In so moche that many of the brethren in the lorde are boldned thorow my bodes and dare more largely speake the worde with out feare. 
Some ther are which preache Christ of envie and stryfe and some of good wyll. 
The one parte preacheth Christ of stryfe and not purely supposinge to adde more adversitie to my bondes. 
The other parte of love because they se that I am set to defend the gospell. 
What then? So that Christ be preached all maner wayes whether it be by occasion or of true meaninge I therin ioye: ye and will ioye. 
For I knowe that this shall chaunce to my salvacion thorow youre prayer and ministringe of the sprete of Iesu Christ, 
as I hertely loke for and hope that in nothinge I shalbe ashamed: but that with all confidence as all wayes in tymes past even so now Christ shalbe magnified in my body whether it be thorowe lyfe or els deeth. 
For Christ is to me lyfe and deeth is to me a vauntage. 
Yf it chaunce me to live in the flesshe that is to me frutefull forto worke and what to chose I wote not. 
I am constrayned of two thinges: I desyre to be lowsed and to be with Christ which thinge is best of all. 
Neverthelesse to abyde in the flesshe is moare nedfull for you. 
And this am I sure of that I shall abyde and with you all continue for the furtheraunce and ioye of youre fayth 
that ye maye moare aboundantly reioyce in Iesus Christ thorowe me by my comminge to you agayne. 
Only let yovre conversacion be as it be cometh the gospell of Christ: that whether I come and se you or els be absent I maye yet heare of you that ye contynue in one sprete and in one soule labouringe as we do to mayntayne the fayth of the gospell 
and in nothynge fearinge youre adversaries: which is to them a token of perdicion and to you of salvacion and that of God. 
For vnto you it is geven that not only ye shulde beleve on Christ: but also suffre for his sake 
and have even the same fight which ye sawe me have and now heare of me. 
