Ephesians.
Chapter 6.
Chyldren obey youre fathers and mothers in the Lorde: for so is it right. 
Honoure thy father and mother that is the fyrst commaundement that hath eny promes 
that thou mayst be in good estate and lyve longe on the erthe. 
And ye fathers move not youre children to wrath: but bringe the vp with the norter and informacion of the Lorde. 
Servautes be obedient vnto youre carnall masters with feare and trimblinge in singlenes of youre hertes as vnto Christ: 
not with service in the eye sight as men pleasars: but as the servautes of Christ doynge the will of God from the herte 
with good will servinge the Lorde and not men. 
And remember that whatsoever good thinge eny man doeth that shall he receave agayne of the Lorde whether he be bonde or fre. 
And ye masters do even the same thinges vnto them puttinge awaye threateninges: and remember that even youre master also is in heven nether is ther eny respecte of person with him. 
Finally my brethren be stronge in the Lorde and in the power of his myght. 
Put on the armour of God that ye maye stonde stedfast agaynst the crafty assautes of the devyll. 
For we wrestle not agaynst flesshe and bloud: but agaynst rule agaynst power and agaynst worldy rulars of the darckenes of this worlde agaynst spretuall wickednes for hevenly thinges. 
For this cause take vnto you the armoure of God that ye maye be able to resist in the evyll daye and to stonde perfect in all thinges. 
Stonde therfore and youre loynes gyrd aboute with veritie havinge on the brest plate of rightewesnes 
and shood with showes prepared by the gospell of peace. 
Above all take to you the shelde of fayth wherwith ye maye quenche all the fyrie dartes of the wicked. 
And take the helmet of salvacion and the swearde of the sprete which is the worde of God. 
And praye all wayes with all maner prayer and supplicacion: and that in the sprete: and watch thervnto with all instance and supplicacion for all saynctes 
and for me that vttraunce maye be geve vnto me that I maye open my mouth boldly to vtter the secretes of the gospell 
whereof I am a messenger in bondes that therin I maye speake frely as it becommeth me to speake. 
But that ye maye also knowe what condicion I am in and what I do Tichicus my deare brother and faythfull minister in the Lorde shall shewe you of all thinges 
whom I sent vnto you for the same purpose that ye myght knowe what case I stonde in and that he myght comfort youre hertes. 
Peace be with the brethren and love with fayth from God the father and from the Lorde Iesu Christ. 
Grace be with all them which love oure lorde Iesus Christ in puernes. Amen. ‘Sent from Rome vnto the Ephesyans by Tichicus.’ 
