Mark.
Chapter 5.
And they cam over to the other syde of the see in to the countre of the Gaderenites. 
And when he was come out of the shippe there met him out of the graves a man possessyd of an vncleane sprete 
which had his abydinge amonge the graves. And no man coulde bynde him: no not with cheynes 
because that when he was often bounde with fetters and cheynes he plucked the chaynes asundre and brake the fetters in peaces. Nether coulde eny man tame him. 
And alwayes bothe nyght and daye he cryed in the moutaynes and in the graves and bet him silfe with stones. 
When he had spied Iesus afarre of he rane and worshipped him 
and cryed with a lowde voyce and sayde: what have I to do with the Iesus the sonne of the moost hyest God? I requyre the in the name of God that thou torment me not. 
For he had sayd vnto hym: come out of the man thou fowle sprete. 
And he axed him: what is thy name? And he answered sayinge: my name is Legion for we are many. 
And he prayd him instantly that he wolde not sende the awaye out of the countre. 
And ther was there nye vnto the moutayns a greate heerd of swyne fedinge 
and all the devyls besought him sayinge: sende vs into the heerde of swyne that we maye enter in to them. 
And anone Iesus gave them leave. And the vnclene spretes wet out and entred into the swyne. And the heerd starteled and ran hedling into the see. They were about .ii.M. swyne and they were drouned in the see. 
And the swyne heerdes fleed and tolde it in the cyte and in the countre. And they came out for to se what had hapened: 
and came to Iesus and sawe hym that was vexed with the fende and had the legion syt both clothed and in his right mynde and were afrayed. 
And they that sawe it tolde them how it had happened vnto him that was possessed with the devyll: and also of the swyne. 
And they begane to praye him that he wolde departe from their coostes. 
And when he was come in to the shyppe he that had the devyll prayed him that he myght be with him. 
Howbeit Iesus wolde not suffre him but sayde vnto him: goo home in to thyne awne housse and to thy frendes and shewe the what great thinges the Lorde hath done vnto the and how he had compassion on the. 
And he departed and begane to publisshe in the ten cyties what greate thinges Iesus had done vnto him and all me dyd merveyle. 
And when Iesus was come over agayne by shyp vnto the other syde moche people gadered vnto him and he was nye vnto the see. 
And beholde ther came one of the rulers of the Synagoge whose name was Iairus: and when he sawe him he fell doune at his fete 
and besought hym greatly sayinge: my doughter lyith at poynt of deeth I wolde thou woldest come and laye thy honde on her that she myght be safe and live. 
And he wet with him and moche people folowed him and thronged him. 
And ther was a certen woman which was diseased of an yssue of bloude .xii. yeres 
and had suffred many thinges of many phisicions and had spet all that she had and felte none amendment at all but wexed worsse and worsse. 
When she had herde of Iesus: she came into the preace behynde him and touched his garmet. 
For she thought: yf I maye but touche his clothes I shall be whole. 
And streyght waye her foutayne of bloude was dryed vp and she felt in her body that she was healed of the plage. 
And Iesus immediatly felt in him silfe the vertue that wet out of him and tourned him roude aboute in the preace and sayde: who touched my clothes? 
And his disciples sayde vnto him: seist thou the people thrust the and yet axest who dyd touche me? 
And he loked roud about for to se her that had done that thinge. 
The woman feared and trembled (for she knew what was done with in her) and she came and fell doune before him and tolde him the truth of everythinge. 
And he sayde to her: Doughter thy fayth hath made the whoale: goo in peace and be whole of thy plage. 
Whyll he yet spake ther came from the ruler of the synagoges housse certayne which sayde: thy doughter is deed: why diseasest thou the master eny further? 
Assone as Iesus herde that worde spoke he sayde vnto the ruler of the synagoge: be not afrayed only beleve. 
And he suffred no man to folowe him moo then Peter and Iames and Ihon the brother of Iames. 
And he came vnto the housse of the ruler of the synagoge and sawe the wondrynge and them that wepte and wayled greatly 
and went in and sayde vnto them: why make ye this adoo and wepe? The mayde is not deed but slepith. 
And they lawght him to scorne. Then he put them all out and toke the father and the mother of the mayden and them that were with him and entred in where the mayden laye 
and toke the mayden by the honde and sayde vnto hyr: Tabitha cumi: which is by interpretacion: mayde I saye vnto the aryse. 
And streyght the mayden arose and went on her fete. For she was of the age of twelve yeres. And they were astonied at it out of measure. 
And he charged the straytely that no man shuld knowe of it and commaunded to geve her meate. 
