1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 5.
Of the tymes and seasons brethren ye have no nede that I write vnto you: 
for ye youre selves knowe parfectly that the daye of the Lorde shall come even as a thefe in the nyght. 
When they shall saye peace and no daunger than commeth on the soden destruccion as the travalynge of a woman with childe and they shall not scape. 
But ye brethren are not in darcknes that that daye shuld come on you as it were a thefe. 
Ye are all the children of light and the children of the daye. We are not of the nyght nether of darcknes. 
Therfore let vs not slepe as do other: but let vs watch and be sober. 
For they that slepe slepe in the nyght: and they that be dronken are dronken in the nyght. 
But let vs which are of the daye be sober armed with the brest plate of fayth and love and with hope of salvacion as an helmet. 
For god hath not apoynted vs vnto wrath: but to obtayne salvacion by the meanes of oure lorde Iesu Christ 
which died for vs: that whether we wake or slepe we shuld lyve togedder with him. 
Wherfore comforte youre selves togedder and edifie one another even as ye do. 
We beseche you brethren that ye knowe them which laboure amonge you and have the oversight of you in the Lorde and geve you exhortacion 
that ye have them the more in love for their workes sake and be at peace with them. 
We desyre you brethren warne them that are vnruly comforte the feble mynded forbeare the weake have continuall pacience towarde all men. 
Se that none recopence evill for evyll vnto eny man: but ever folowe that which is good both amonge youre selves and to all men. 
Reioyce ever. 
Praye continually. 
In all thinges geve thankes. For this is the wyll of God in Christ Iesu towarde you. 
Quenche not the sprete. 
Despise not prophesyinge. 
Examen all thinges and kepe that which is good. 
Abstayne from all suspicious thinges. 
The very God of peace sanctifie you thorow out. And I praye God that youre whole sprete soulse and body be kept fautlesse vnto the comynge of oure Lorde Iesus Christ 
Faythfull is he which called you: which will also do it. 
Brethren praye for vs. 
Grete all the brethren with an holy kysse. 
I charge you in the Lorde that this pistle be reed vnto all the holy brethren. 
The grace of the Lorde Iesus Christ be with you. Amen. ‘The fyrst pistle vnto the Tessalonyans sent from Athens.’ 
