2 Corinthians.
Chapter 11.
Wolde to god ye coulde suffre me a lytell in my folysshnes: yee and I praye you forbeare me. 
For I am gelous over you with godly gelousy. For I coupled you to one man to make you a chaste virgen to Christ. 
But I feare lest as the serpent begyled Eve thorow his sutteltie even so youre wittes shuld be corrupte from the singlenes that is in Christ. 
For if he that commeth preache another Iesus then hym whom we preached: or if ye receave another sprete then that which ye have receaved: other another gospell then that ye have receaved ye myght right wel have bene content. 
I suppose that I was not behynde the chefe apostles. 
Though I be rude in speakynge yet I am not so in knowledge. How be it amonge you we are knowen to the vtmost what we are in all thynges. 
Did I therin synne be cause I submitted my silfe that ye myght be exalted and because I preached to you the gospell of God fre? 
I robbed other congregacions and toke wages of the to do you service with all. 
And when I was present with yov and had nede I was greuous to no man for that which was lackynge vnto me the brethren which came from Macedonia supplied: and in all thynges I kept my silfe that I shuld not be greveous to you: and so will I kepe my silfe. 
Yf the trueth of Christ be in me this ieioysynge shall not be taken from me in the regions of Achaia. 
Wherfore? Be cause I love you not? God knoweth. 
Neverthe lesse what I doo that will I do to cut awaye occasion from them which desyre occasion that they myght be founde lyke vnto vs in that wherin they reioyce. 
For these falce apostles are disceatefull workers and fassion them selves lyke vnto the apostles of Christ. 
And no marvayle for satan him silfe is chaunged into the fassion of an angell of light. 
Therfore it is no great thynge though his ministers fassion them selves as though they were the ministers of rightewesnes: whose ende shalbe acordynge to their dedes. 
I saye agayne lest eny man thynke that I am folishe: or els even now take me as a fole that I maye bost my silfe a lytell. 
That I speake I speake it not after the wayes of the lorde: but as it were folysshly whill we are now come to bostynge. 
Seynge that many reioyce after the flesshe I will reioyce also. 
For ye suffre foles gladly be cause that ye youre selves are wyse. 
For ye suffre even if a man brynge you into bondage: yf a man devoure: yf a man take: yf a man exalt hym silfe: yf a man smyte you on the face. 
I speake as concernynge rebuke as though we had bene weake. How be it wherin soever eny man dare be bolde (I speake folisshly) I dare be bolde also 
They are Ebrues so am I: They are Israelites even so am I. They are the seede of Abraham even so am I. 
They are the ministers of Christ (I speake as a fole) I am moare: In labours moare aboundant: In strypes above measure: In preson more plenteously: In deeth ofte. 
Of the Iewes five tymes receaved I every tyme .xl. strypes saue one. 
Thryse was I beten with roddes. I was once stoned. I suffered thryse shipwracke. Nyght and daye have I bene in the depe of the see. 
In iorneyinge often: In parels of waters: In parels of robbers: In ieoperdies of myne awne nacion: In ieoperdies amonge the hethen. I have bene in parels in cities in parels in wildernes in parels in the see in parels amonge falce brethren 
in laboure and travayle in watchynge often in honger in thirst in fastynges often in colde and in nakednes. 
And besyde the thynges which outwardly happen vnto me I am combred dayly and do care for all congregacions. 
Who is sicke and I am not sicke? Who is hurte in the fayth and my hert burneth not? 
Yf I must nedes reioyce I will reioyce of myne infirmities. 
The God and father of oure lorde Iesus Christ which is blessed for evermore knoweth that I lye not 
In the citie of Damascon the governer of the people vnder kynge Aretas layde watche in the citie of the Damasces and wolde have caught me 
and at a wyndowe was I let doune in a basket thorowe the wall and so scaped his hondes. 
