Galatians.
Chapter 6.
Brethren yf eny man be fallen by chauce into eny faute: ye which are spirituall helpe to amende him in the sprete of meknes: consyderynge thy silfe lest thou also be tempted. 
Beare ye one anothers burthen and so fulfill the lawe of Christ. 
If eny man seme to him silfe that he is somwhat when in dede he is nothynge the same deceaveth hym silfe in his ymaginacion. 
Let every man prove his awne worke and then shall he have reioysinge in his awne silfe and not in another. 
For every man shall beare his awne burthen. 
Let him that is taught in the worde minister vnto him that teacheth him in all good thinges. 
Be not deceaved God is not mocked. For what soever a man soweth that shall he reepe. 
He that soweth in his flesshe shall of the flesshe reepe corrupcion. But he that soweth in the sprete shall of the sprete reepe lyfe everlastinge. 
Let vs not be wery of well doynge. For when the tyme is come we shall repe with out werines. 
Whill we have therfore tyme let vs do good vnto all men and specially vnto them which are of the housholde of fayth. 
Beholde how large a letter I have written vnto you with myne awne honde. 
As many as desyre with vtwarde apperauce to please carnally they constrayne you to be circumcised only be cause they wolde not suffre persecucion with the crosse of Christ. 
For they them selves which are circumcised kepe not the lawe: but desyre to have you circumcised that they myght reioyce in youre flesshe. 
God forbyd that I shuld reioyce but in the crosse of oure Lorde Iesu Christ wherby the worlde is crucified as touchinge me and I as concerninge the worlde. 
For in Christ Iesu nether circucision avayleth eny thinge at all nor vncircumcision: but a new creature. 
And as many as walke accordinge to this rule peace be on them and mercy and vpon Israel that pertayneth to God. 
From hence forth let no man put me to busynes. For I beare in my bodye the markes of the Lorde Iesu. 
Brethren the grace of oure Lorde Iesu Christe be with youre sprete. Amen. ‘Vnto the Galathyans written from Rome.’ 
