Matthew.
Chapter 15.
Then came to Iesus scribes and pharises from Ierusalem sayinge: 
why do thy disciples transgresse the tradicions of the elders? for they wesshe not their hondes when they eate breed. 
He answered and sayde vnto them: why do ye also transgresse the commaundment of God thorowe youre tradicions? 
For God commaunded sayinge: honoure thy father and mother and he that cursseth father or mother shall suffer deeth. 
But ye saye every man shall saye to his father or mother: That which thou desyrest of me to helpe the with: is geven God: 
and so shall he not honoure his father or his mother. And thus haue ye made that the commaundment of God is with out effecte through youre tradicions. 
Ypocrites well prophesyed of you Esay sayinge: 
This people draweth nye vnto me with their mouthes and honoureth me with their lippes howbe it their hertes are farre from me: 
but in vayne they worshippe me teachinge doctrines whiche are nothing but mens precepts. 
And he called the people vnto him and sayde to them: heare and vnderstande. 
That which goeth into the mouth defyleth not the man: but that which commeth out of the mouth defyleth the man. 
Then came his disciples and sayde vnto him. Perceavest thou not how that the pharises are offended in hearinge thys sayinge? 
He answered and sayde: all plantes which my hevely father hath not planted shalbe plucked vp by the rotes. 
Let them alone they be the blynde leaders of the blynde. If the blynde leede the blynde boothe shall fall into the dyche. 
Then answered Peter and sayd to him: declare vnto vs this parable. 
Then sayde Iesus: are ye yet with oute vnderstondinge? 
perceave ye not that what soever goeth in at the mouth descendeth doune in to the bely and is cast out into the draught? 
But those thingis which procede out of the mouth come from the herte and they defyle the man. 
For out of the herte come evyll thoughtis murder breakyng of wedlocke whordo theefte falce witnes berynge blasphemye. 
These are the thingis which defyle a man. But to eate with vnwesshen hondes defyleth not a man. 
And Iesus went thence and departed in to the costis of Tyre and Sidon. 
And beholde a woman which was a Cananite came out of the same coostis and cryed vnto him sayinge: have mercy on me Lorde the sonne of David my doughter is pytiously vexed with a devyll. 
And he gave her never a worde to answer. Then came to him his disciples and besought him sayinge: sende her awaye for she foloweth vs cryinge. 
He answered and sayde: I am not sent but vnto the loost shepe of the housse of Israel. 
Then she came and worshipped him sayinge: master helpe me. 
He answered and sayde: it is not good to take the chyldrens breed and to cast it to whelpes. 
She answered and sayde: truthe Lorde: neverthelesse the whelpes eate of the cromes which fall from their masters table. 
Then Iesus answered and sayde vnto her. O woman greate is thy faith be it to the even as thou desyrest. And her doughter was made whole even at that same houre. 
Then Iesus went awaye from thence and came nye vnto the see of Galile and went vp in to a mountayne and sat doune there. 
And moche people came vnto him havinge with the halt blynde domme maymed and other many: and cast them doune at Iesus fete. And he healed them 
in so moche that the people wondred to se the dome speake the maymed whole the halt to go and the blynde to se. And they glorified the God of Israel. 
Then Iesus called his disciples to him and sayde: I have compassion on the people because they have cotynued with me now .iii. dayes and have nought to eate: and I wyll not let them departe fastinge leste they perisshe in the waye. 
And his disciples sayd vnto him: whence shuld we get so moche breed in the wildernes as shuld suffise so greate a multitude? 
And Iesus sayde vnto them: how many loves have ye? And they sayde: seven and a feawe litle fysshes. 
And he commaunded the people to syt doune on the grounde: 
and toke the seven loves and the fysshes and gave thankes and brake them and gave to his disciples and the disciples gave them to the people. 
And they dyd all eate and were suffised. And they toke vp of the broke meate that was lefte .vii. basketes full. 
And yet they that ate were .iiii.M. men besyde wemen and chyldren. 
And he sent awaye the people and toke shippe and came into the parties of Magdala. 
