THE FIRST EPISTLE OF PAUL THE APOSTLE TO TIMOTHY.
Chapter 1.
Paul an Apostle of Iesus Christ by the commaundement of God oure savioure and Lorde Iesus Christ which is oure hope. 
Vnto Timothe his naturall sonne in the fayth. Grace mercy and peace from God oure father and Lorde Iesus Christ oure Lorde. 
As I besought the to abyde styll in Ephesus when I departed into Macedonia even so do that thou commaunde some that they teache no nother wise: 
nether geve hede to fables and genealogies which are endlesse and brede doutes more then godly edyfyinge which is by fayth: 
for the ende of the commaundement is love that cometh of a pure herte and of a good conscience and of fayth vnfayned: 
from the which thinges some have erred and have turned vnto vayne iangelinge 
because they wolde be doctours the scripture and yet vnderstonde not what they speake nether wherof they affirme. 
We knowe that the lawe is good yf a man vse it lawfully 
vnderstondinge this how that the lawe is not geven vnto a righteous man but vnto the vnrighteous and disobedient to the vngodly and to synners to vnholy and vnclean to murtherers of fathers and murtherers of mothers to manslears 
and whormongers: to them that defile them selves with mankynde: to menstealers: to lyars and to periured and so forth yf ther be eny other thinge that is contrary to holsome doctrine 
accordinge to the gospell of the glory of the blessed God which gospell is committed vnto me. 
And I thanke Christ Iesus oure Lorde which hath made me stronge: for he counted me true and put me in office 
when before I was a blasphemar and a persecuter and a tyraut. But I obtayned mercy because I dyd it ignorauntly thorow vnbelefe. 
Neverthelater the grace of oure Lorde was more aboundaunt with fayth and love which is in Christ Iesu. 
This is a true sayinge and by all meanes worthy to be receaved that Christ Iesus came into the world to save synners of whom I am chefe. 
Notwithstondinge for this cause was mercy geve vnto me that Iesus Christ shuld fyrst shewe on me all longe pacience vnto the ensample of them which shall in tyme to come beleve on him vnto eternall lyfe. 
So then vnto god kynge everlastinge immortall invisible and wyse only be honoure and prayse for ever and ever Amen. 
This commaundement commit I vnto the sonne Timotheus accordynge to the prophisies which in tyme past were prophisied of the that thou in them shuldest fyght a good fyght 
havinge fayth and good consciece which some have put awaye from them and as concerninge fayth have made shipwracke. 
Of whose nombre is Himeneus and Alexander which I have delivered vnto Satan that they myght be taught not to blaspheme 
