2 Timothy.
Chapter 4.
I testifie therfore before god and before the lorde Iesu Christ which shall iudge quicke and deed at his aperynge in his kyngdom 
preache the worde be fervent be it in season or out of season. Improve rebuke exhorte with all longe sufferinge and doctryne. 
For the tyme will come when they wyll not suffer wholsome doctryne: but after their awne lustes shall they (whose eares ytche) gett the an heepe of teachers 
and shall turne their eares from the trueth and shalbe geven vnto fables. 
But watch thou in all thynges and suffre adversitie and do the worke of an evangelist fulfill thyne office vnto the vtmost. 
For I am now redy to be offered and the tyme of my departynge is at honde. 
I have fought a good fight and have fulfilled my course and have kept the fayth. 
From hence forth is layde vp for me a croune of rightewesnes which the lorde that is a righteous iudge shall geve me at that daye: not to me only but vnto all them that love his commynge. 
Make spede to come vnto me at once. 
For Demas hath left me and hath loved this present worlde and is departed into Tessalonica. Crescens is gone to Galacia and Titus vnto Dalmacea. 
Only Lucas is with me. Take Marke and bringe him with the for he is necessary vnto me forto minister. 
And Tichicus have I sent to Ephesus. 
The cloke that I lefte at Troada with Carpus when thou commest brynge with the and the bokes but specially the partchemet. 
Alexander the coppersmyth did me moche evyll the lorde rewarde him accordynge to his dedes 
of whom be thou ware also. For he withstode oure preachynge sore. 
At my fyrst answerynge no man assissted me but all forsoke me. I praye God that it maye not be layde to their charges: 
not withstondinge the Lorde assisted me and stregthed me that by me the preachinge shuld be fulfilled to the vtmost and that all the gentyls shuld heare. And I was delivered out of the mouth of the lyon. 
And the Lorde shall delivre me from all evyll doynge and shall kepe me vnto his hevenly kyngdome. To who be prayse for ever and ever. Amen. 
Salute Prisca and Aquila and the housholde of Onesiphorus. 
Erastus abode at Corinthum. Trophimos I lefte at Miletum sicke. 
Make spede to come before winter. Eubolus gretith the and Pudes and Linus and Claudia and all the brethren. 
The Lorde Iesus Christ be with thy sprete. Grace be with you. Amen. ‘The seconde pistle written from Rome vnto Timothe when Paul was presented the seconde tyme vp before the Emperoure Nero.’ 
