Mark.
Chapter 3.
And he entred agayne into the synagoge and there was a man there which had a widdred honde. 
And they watched him to se whether he wolde heale him on the Saboth daye that they might accuse him. 
And he sayde vnto the man which had the wyddred honde: arise and stonde in the middes. 
And he sayd to them: whether is it laufull to do a good dede on the Saboth dayes or an evyll? to save life or kyll? But they helde their peace. 
And he loked round aboute on them angerly mournyge on the blindnes of their hertes and sayde to the man: stretch forth thyne honde. And he stretched it oute. And his honde was restored even as whole as the other. 
And the Pharises departed and streyght waye gaddred a counsell with the that belonged to Herode agaynst him that they might destroye him. 
And Iesus auoyded with his disciples to the sea. And a greate multitude folowed him from Galile and from Iurie 
and from Hierusalem and from Idumea and from beyonde Iordane: and they that dwelled about Tyre and Sidon a greate multitude: which when they had herde what thinges he dyd came vnto him. 
And he commaunded his disciples that a shippe shuld wayte on him because of the people leste they shuld througe him. 
For he had healed many in somoche that they preased apon him for to touche him as many as had plages. 
And when the vnclene sprites sawe him they fell doune before him and cryed sayinge: thou arte the sonne of God. 
And he straygtly charged them that they shuld not vtter him. 
And he wet vp into a mountayne and called vnto him whom he wolde and they came vnto him. 
And he ordeyned the .xii. that they shuld be with him and that he myght sende the to preache: 
and that they might have power to heale syknesses and to cast out devyls. 
And he gave vnto Simon to name Peter. 
And he called Iames the sonne of zebede and Iohn Iames brother and gave them Bonarges to name which is to saye the sonnes of thounder. 
And Andrew and Philip and Bartlemew and Mathew and Thomas and Iames the sonne of Alphey and Taddeus and Symon of Cane, 
and Iudas Iscarioth which same also betrayed him. And they came vnto housse 
and the people assembled togedder agayne so greatly that they had not leesar so moche as to eate breed. 
And when they that longed vnto him hearde of it they went out to holde him. For they thought he had bene beside him selfe. 
And the Scribes which came from Ierusalem sayde: he hath Belzebub and by the power of the chefe devyll casteth out devyls. 
And he called them vnto him and sayde vnto them in similitudes. How can Satan drive out Satan? 
For yf a realme be devided ageynste it silfe that realme cannot endure. 
Or yf a housse be devided agaynste it silfe that housse cannot continue: 
So yf Satan make insurreccion agaynste himsilfe and be devided he cannot continue but is at an ende. 
No man can entre into a stronge mans housse and take awaye hys gooddes excepte he fyrst bynde that stronge man and then spoyle hys housse. 
Verely I saye vnto you all synnes shalbe forgeven vnto mens chyldren and blasphemy wherwith they blaspheme. 
But he that blasphemeth the holy goost shall never have forgevenes: but is in dauger of eternall dampnacion: 
because they sayde he had an vnclene sprete. 
Then came his mother and his brethren and stode with out and sent vnto him and called him. 
And the people sate aboute hym and sayde vnto him: beholde thy mother and thy brethren seke for the with out. 
And he answered them sayinge: who is my mother and my brethren? 
And he loked rounde about on his disciples which sate in compasse about hym and sayde: beholde my mother and my brethren. 
For who soever doeth the will of God he is my brother my syster and mother. 
