2 Corinthians.
Chapter 5.
We knowe suerly yf oure erthy mancion wherin we now dwell were destroyed that we have a bildinge ordeyned of god an habitacion not made with hondes but eternall in heven. 
And herefore sigh we desyringe to be clothed with oure mansion which is from heven: 
so yet if that we be founde clothed and not naked. 
For as longe as we are in this tabernacle we sigh and are greved for we wold not be vnclothed but wolde be clothed apon that mortalite myght be swalowed vp of lyfe. 
He that hath ordeyned vs for this thynge ys god which very same hath geven vnto vs the ernest of the sprete. 
Therfore we are alwaye of good chere and knowe well that as longe as we are at home in the body we are absent from God. 
For we walke in fayth and se not. 
Neverthelesse we are of good comforte and had lever to be absent from the body and to be present with the lorde. 
Wherfore whether we be at home or from home we endeuoure oure selves to please him. 
For we must all appere before the iudgement seate of Christ that every man maye receave the workes of his body accordynge to that he hath done whether it be good or bad? 
Seynge then that we knowe how the lorde is to be feared we fare fayre with men. For we are knowen wel ynough vnto God. I trust also that we are knowen in youre consciences. 
We prayse not oure selves agayne vnto you but geve you an occasion to reioyce of vs that ye maye have some what agaynst the whych reioyce in the face and not in the hert. 
For yf we be to fervent to God are we to fervent. Yf we kepe measure for youre cause kepe we measure. 
For the love of Christ costrayneth vs be cause we thus iudge yf one be deed for all that then are all deed 
and that he dyed for all that they which live shuld not hence forth live vnto them selves but vnto hym whith died for them and rose agayne. 
Wherfore henceforth knowe we no man after the flesshe. In somoche though we have knowe Christ after the flesshe now hence forthe knowe we hym so no more. 
Therfore yf eny man be in Christ he is a newe creature. Olde thynges are passed awaye beholde all thinges are be come newe. 
Neverthelesse all thinges are of god which hath reconciled vs vnto him sylfe by Iesus Christ and hath geven vnto vs the office to preach the atonement. 
For god was in Christ and made agrement bitwene the worlde and hym sylfe and imputed not their synnes vnto them: and hath committed to vs the preachynge of the atonment. 
Now then are we messengers in the roume of Christ: even as though God did beseche you thorow vs: So praye we you in Christes stede that ye be atone with God: 
for he hath made him to be synne for vs which knewe no synne that we by his meanes shuld be that rightewesnes which before God is aloved. 
