2 Corinthians.
Chapter 4.
Therfore seinge that we have soche an office even as mercy is come on vs we faynte not: 
but have cast from vs the clokes of vnhonestie and walke not in craftines nether corrupte we the worde of God: but walke in open trueth and reporte oure selves to every mannes conscience in the sight of God. 
Yf oure Gospell be yet hyd it is hid amonge them that are lost 
in whom the god of this worlde hath blynded the myndes of them which beleve not lest the light of the glorious gospell of Christ which is the ymage of god shuld shyne vnto them. 
For we preache not oure selves but Christ Iesus to be the Lorde and oure selves youre servautes for Iesus sake. 
For it is God that commauded the light to shyne out of darcknes which hath shyned in oure hertes for to geve the light of the knowledge of the glorie of God in the face of Iesus Christ. 
But we have this treasure in erthe vessels that the excellent power of it myght appere to be of God and not of vs. 
We are troubled on every side yet are we not with out shyft. We are in povertie: but not vtterly without somwhat. 
We are persecuted: but are not forsake. We are cast doune: neverthelesse we perisshe not. 
And we all wayes beare in oure bodyes the dyinge of the Lorde Iesus that the lyfe of Iesu myght appere in oure bodyes. 
For we which live are alwayes delyvered vnto deeth for Iesus sake that the lyfe also of Iesu myght appere in oure mortall flesshe. 
So then deeth worketh in vs and lyfe in you. 
Seynge then that we have the same sprete of fayth accordinge as it is written: I beleved and therfore have I spoken. We also beleve and therfore speake. 
For we knowe that he which raysed vp the Lorde Iesus shall rayse vp vs also by the meanes of Iesus and shall seet vs with you. 
For all thinges do I for youre sakes that the plenteous grace by thankes geve of many maye redounde to the prayse of god. 
Wherfore we are not weried but though oure vttward man perisshe yet the inwarde man is renewed daye by daye. 
For oure excedinge tribulacion which is momentany and light prepareth an excedinge and an eternall wayght of glorye vnto vs 
whill we loke not on the thynges which are sene but on the thynges which are not sene. For thinges which are sene are temporall: but thynges which are not sene are eternall 
