1 John.
Chapter 3.
Beholde what love the father hath shewed on vs that we shuld be called the sonnes of god. For this cause the worlde knoweth you not because it knoweth not him. 
Derely beloved now are we the sonnes of God and yet it dothe not appere what we shal be. But we knowe that when it shall appere we shal be lyke him. For we shall se him as he is. 
And every man that hath thys hope in him pourgeth him silfe even as he ys pure. 
Whosover committeth synne committeth vnrighteousnes also for synne is vnrighteousnes. 
And ye knowe that he appered to take awaye oure synnes and in him is no synne. 
As many as byde in him synne not: whosoever synneth hath not sene him nether hath knowen him. 
Babes let no man deceave you He that doeth righteousnes is righteous even as he is righteous. 
He that committeth synne is of the devill: for the devyll synneth sence the begynnynge. For this purpose appered the sonne of god to lowse the workes of the devill. 
Whosoever is borne of god sinneth not: for his seed remayneth in him and he cannot sinne because he is borne of god. 
In this are the children of god knowen and the children of the devyll. Whosoever doeth not rightewesnes is not of God nether he that loveth not his brother. 
For this is the tydinges that ye hearde from the begynninge that we shuld love one another: 
not as Cayn which was of the wicked and slewe his brother. And wherfore slewe he him? Because his awne workes were evyll and his brothers good. 
Marvayle not my brethren though the worlde hate you. 
We knowe that we are translated from deeth vnto lyfe be cause we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abydeth in deeth. 
Whosoever hateth his brother is a man slear. And ye knowe that no man slear hath eternall lyfe abydinge in him. 
Herby perceave we love: that he gave his lyfe for vs: and therfore ought we also to geve oure lyves for the brethren. 
Whosoever hath this worldes good and seith his brother have neade: and shutteth vp his compassion from him: how dwelleth the love of God in him? 
My babes let vs not love in worde nether in tonge: but with dede and in veritie: 
for therby we knowe that we are of the veritie and can before him quiet oure hertes. 
But yf oure hertes condempne vs God is gretter then oure hertes and knoweth all thinges. 
Beloved yf oure hertes condempne vs not then have we trust to god warde: 
and what soever we axe we shall receave of him: be cause we kepe his commaundementes and do those thinges which are pleasinge in his sight. 
And this is his commaundement that we beleve on the name of his sonne Iesus Christ and love one another as he gave commaundement. 
And he that kepeth his commaundementes dwelleth in him and he in him: and therby we knowe that ther abydeth in vs of the sprete which he gave vs. 
