2 Corinthians.
Chapter 12.
It is not expediet for me (no dout to reioyce. Neverthelesse I will come to visions and revelacions of the lorde. 
I knowe a man in Christ above .xiiij. yeares agone (whether he weare in the body I cannot tell or whether he were oute of the body I cannot tell god knoweth) which was take vp into the thyrd heven. 
And I knowe the same man (whether in the body or out of the body I cannot tell god knoweth) 
howe that he was take vp into paradise and hearde wordes not to be spoke which no man can vtter. 
Of this man will I reioyce of my silfe will I not reioyce except it be of myne infirmities. 
And yet though I wolde reioyce I shuld not be a fole: for I wolde saye the trouthe. Neverthe lesse I spare lest eny man shuld thynke of me above that he seith me to be or heareth of me. 
And lest I shuld be exalted out of measure thorow the aboundance of revelacions ther was geven vnto me vnquyetnes of the flesshe the messenger of Satan to buffet me: be cause I shuld not be exalted out of measure 
For this thynge besought I the lorde thryse that it myght departe from me. 
And he sayde vnto me: my grace is sufficient for the. For my strength is made perfact thorow weaknes. Very gladly therfore will I reioyce of my weaknes that the strength of Christ maye dwell in me 
Therfore have I delectacion in infirmities in rebukes in nede in persecucions in anguyshe for Christis sake. For when I am weake then am I stronge. 
I am made a fole in bostynge my silfe. Ye have compelled me: I ought to have bene comeded of you. For in nothinge was I inferior vnto the chefe apostels Though I be nothynge 
yet the tokens of an apostle were wrought amonge you with all pacience: with signes and wonders and myghty dedes. 
For what is it wherin ye were inferiors vnto other congregacions except it be therin that I was not greveous vnto you. Forgeve me this wronge done vnto you. 
Beholde now the thyrde tyme I am redy to come vnto you: and yet will I not be grevous vnto you. For I seke not youres but you. Also the children ought not to laye vp for the fathers and mothers: but the fathers and mothers for the children. 
I will very gladly bestowe and wilbe bestowed for youre soules: though the moare I love you the lesse I am loved agayne. 
But be it that I greved you not: never the lesse I was crafty and toke you with gile. 
Did I pill you by eny of the which I sent vnto you? 
I desyred Titus and with him I sent a brother. Did Titus defraude you of eny thynge? walked we not in one sprete? walked we not in lyke steppes? 
Agayne thynke ye that we excuse oure selves? We speake in Christ in the sight of God. But we do all thynges dearly beloved for youre edifyinge. 
For I feare lest it come to passe that when I come I shall not fynde you soche as I wolde: and I shalbe foude vnto you soche as ye wolde not: I feare lest ther be founde amonge you debate envyinge wrath stryfe backbytynges whisperynges swellynges and discorde. 
I feare lest when I come agayne God brynge me lowe amonge you and I be constrayned to bewayle many of the which have synned all redy and have not repented of the vnclennes fornicacion and wantanes which they haue committed. 
