1 John.
Chapter 2.
My lytell children these thynges write I vnto you that ye synne not: yf eny man synne yet we have an advocate with the father Iesus Christ which is righteous: 
and he it is that obteyneth grace for oure synnes: not for oure synnes only: but also for the synnes of all the worlde. 
And herby we are sure that we knowe him yf we kepe his commaundementes. 
He that sayth I knowe him and kepeth not his commaundementes is a lyar and the veritie is not in him. 
Whosoever kepeth his (worde) in him is the love of god parfect in dede. And therby knowe we that we are in him. 
He that sayth he bydeth in him ought to walke even as he walked. 
Brethren I write no newe commaundement vnto you: but that olde commaundement which ye hearde from the begynnynge. The olde commaundement is the worde which ye hearde from the begynnynge. 
Agayne a newe commaundement I write vnto you a thynge that is true in him and also in you: for the darknes is past and the true lyght now shyneth. 
He that sayth how that he is in the light and yet hateth his brother is in darknes even vntyll this tyme. 
He that loveth his brother abydeth in the light and ther is none occasion of evyll in him. 
He that hateth his brother is in darknes and walketh in darknes: and cannot tell whither he goeth because that darknes hath blynded his eyes. 
Babes I write vnto you how that youre synnes are forgeven you for his names sake. 
I wryte vnto you fathers how that ye have knowen him that was from the begynnynge. I wryte vnto you yonge men how that ye have overcome the wicked. I wryte vnto you lytell children how that ye have knowne the father. 
I wryte vnto you fathers how that ye have knowe him that was from the begynnynge. I wryte vnto you youge men how that ye are stronge: and the worde of God abydeth in you and ye have overcome that wicked. 
Se that ye love not the worlde nether the thynges that are in the worlde. Yf eny man love the worlde the love of the father is not in him. 
For all that is in the worlde (as the lust of the flesshe the lust of the eyes and the pryde of gooddes) is not of the father: but of the worlde 
And the worlde vannyssheth awaye and the lust therof: but he that fulfilleth the will of god abydeth ever. 
Lytell children it is the last tyme and as ye have herde how that Antichrist shall come: even now are there many Antichristes come allredy. Wherby we knowe that it is the last tyme. 
They went oute from vs but they were not of vs. For yf they had bene of vs they wolde no dout have continued with vs. But that fortuned that that myght appere that they were not of vs. 
And ye have an oyntment of the holy gost and ye knowe all thynges. 
I wrote not vnto you as though ye knewe not the trueth: but as though ye knewe it and knowe also that no lye commeth of trueth. 
Who is a lyar: but he that denyeth that Iesus is Christ? The same is the Antichrist that denyeth the father and the sonne. 
Whosoever denyeth the sonne the same hath not the father. 
Let therfore abyde in you that same which ye hearde from the begynnynge. Yf that which ye hearde from the begynnynge shall remayne in you ye also shall continewe in the sonne and in the father 
And this is the promes that he hath promysed vs even eternall lyfe. 
This have I written vnto you concernynge the that disceave you. 
And the anoyntynge which ye have receaved of him dwelleth in you. And ye nede not that eny man teache you: but as the annoyntynge teaheth you all thynges and is true and is no lye: and as it taught you even so byde therin. 
And nowe babes abyde in him that when he shall appere we maye be bolde and not be made a shamed of him at his commynge. 
Yf ye knowe that he is righteous knowe also that he which foloweth rightewesnes is borne of him. 
