Proverbs.
Chapter 18.
Through desire a man, having separated himself, seeketh And intermeddleth with all wisdom. 
A fool hath no delight in understanding, But that his heart may discover itself. 
When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt, And with ignominy reproach. 
The words of a man’s mouth are as deep waters, And the wellspring of wisdom as a flowing brook. 
It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, To overthrow the righteous in judgment. 
A fool’s lips enter into contention, And his mouth calleth for strokes. 
A fool’s mouth is his destruction, And his lips are the snare of his soul. 
The words of a talebearer are as wounds, And they go down into the innermost parts of the belly. 
He also that is slothful in his work Is brother to him that is a great waster. 
The name of the Lord is a strong tower: The righteous runneth into it, and is safe. 
The rich man’s wealth is his strong city, And as a high wall in his own conceit. 
Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, And before honour is humility. 
He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, It is folly and shame unto him. 
The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; But a wounded spirit who can bear? 
The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; And the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge. 
A man’s gift maketh room for him, And bringeth him before great men. 
He that is first in his own cause seemeth just; But his neighbour cometh and searcheth him. 
The lot causeth contentions to cease, And parteth between the mighty. 
A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city: And their contentions are like the bars of a castle. 
A man’s belly shall be satisfied with the fruit of his mouth; And with the increase of his lips shall he be filled. 
Death and life are in the power of the tongue: And they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof. 
Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, And obtaineth favour of the Lord. 
The poor useth intreaties; But the rich answereth roughly. 
A man that hath friends must shew himself friendly: And there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. 
