Proverbs.
Chapter 26.
As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, So honour is not seemly for a fool. 
As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying, So the curse causeless shall not come. 
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, And a rod for the fools’ back. 
Answer not a fool according to his folly, Lest thou also be like unto him. 
Answer a fool according to his folly, Lest he be wise in his own conceit. 
He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool Cutteth off the feet, and drinketh damage. 
The legs of the lame are not equal: So is a parable in the mouth of fools. 
As he that bindeth a stone in a sling, So is he that giveth honour to a fool. 
As a thorn goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, So is a parable in the mouth of fools. 
The great God that formed all things Both rewardeth the fool, and rewardeth transgressors. 
As a dog returneth to his vomit, So a fool returneth to his folly. 
Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? There is more hope of a fool than of him. 
The slothful man saith, There is a lion in the way; A lion is in the streets. 
As the door turneth upon his hinges, So doth the slothful upon his bed. 
The slothful hideth his hand in his bosom; It grieveth him to bring it again to his mouth. 
The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit Than seven men that can render a reason. 
He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, Is like one that taketh a dog by the ears. 
As a mad man who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death, 
So is the man that deceiveth his neighbour, And saith, Am not I in sport? 
Where no wood is, there the fire goeth out: So where there is no talebearer, the strife ceaseth. 
As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; So is a contentious man to kindle strife. 
The words of a talebearer are as wounds, And they go down into the innermost parts of the belly. 
Burning lips and a wicked heart Are like a potsherd covered with silver dross. 
He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, And layeth up deceit within him; 
When he speaketh fair, believe him not: For there are seven abominations in his heart. 
Whose hatred is covered by deceit, His wickedness shall be shewed before the whole congregation. 
Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: And he that rolleth a stone, it will return upon him. 
A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it; And a flattering mouth worketh ruin. 
