Proverbs.
Chapter 11.
A false balance is abomination to the Lord: But a just weight is his delight. 
When pride cometh, then cometh shame: But with the lowly is wisdom. 
The integrity of the upright shall guide them: But the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them. 
Riches profit not in the day of wrath: But righteousness delivereth from death. 
The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: But the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness. 
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: But transgressors shall be taken in their own naughtiness. 
When a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish: And the hope of unjust men perisheth. 
The righteous is delivered out of trouble, And the wicked cometh in his stead. 
A hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbour: But through knowledge shall the just be delivered. 
When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: And when the wicked perish, there is shouting. 
By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: But it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. 
He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: But a man of understanding holdeth his peace. 
A talebearer revealeth secrets: But he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter. 
Where no counsel is, the people fall: But in the multitude of counsellers there is safety. 
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: And he that hateth suretiship is sure. 
A gracious woman retaineth honour: And strong men retain riches. 
The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: But he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh. 
The wicked worketh a deceitful work: But to him that soweth righteousness shall be a sure reward. 
As righteousness tendeth to life: So he that pursueth evil pursueth it to his own death. 
They that are of a froward heart are abomination to the Lord: But such as are upright in their way are his delight. 
Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished: But the seed of the righteous shall be delivered. 
As a jewel of gold in a swine’s snout, So is a fair woman which is without discretion. 
The desire of the righteous is only good: But the expectation of the wicked is wrath. 
There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; And there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty. 
The liberal soul shall be made fat: And he that watereth shall be watered also himself. 
He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: But blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it. 
He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: But he that seeketh mischief, it shall come unto him. 
He that trusteth in his riches shall fall: But the righteous shall flourish as a branch. 
He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: And the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart. 
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; And he that winneth souls is wise. 
Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: Much more the wicked and the sinner. 
