Psalms.
Chapter 22.
To the chief Musician upon Aijeleth Shahar, A Psalm of David. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring? 
O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou hearest not; And in the night season, and am not silent. 
But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel. 
Our fathers trusted in thee: They trusted, and thou didst deliver them. 
They cried unto thee, and were delivered: They trusted in thee, and were not confounded. 
But I am a worm, and no man; A reproach of men, and despised of the people. 
All they that see me laugh me to scorn: They shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, 
He trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him: Let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him. 
But thou art he that took me out of the womb: Thou didst make me hope when I was upon my mother’s breasts. 
I was cast upon thee from the womb: Thou art my God from my mother’s belly. 
Be not far from me; for trouble is near; For there is none to help. 
Many bulls have compassed me: Strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round. 
They gaped upon me with their mouths, As a ravening and a roaring lion. 
I am poured out like water, And all my bones are out of joint: My heart is like wax; It is melted in the midst of my bowels. 
My strength is dried up like a potsherd; And my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; And thou hast brought me into the dust of death. 
For dogs have compassed me: The assembly of the wicked have inclosed me: They pierced my hands and my feet. 
I may tell all my bones: They look and stare upon me. 
They part my garments among them, And cast lots upon my vesture. 
But be not thou far from me, O Lord: O my strength, haste thee to help me. 
Deliver my soul from the sword; My darling from the power of the dog. 
Save me from the lion’s mouth: For thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns. 
I will declare thy name unto my brethren: In the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. 
Ye that fear the Lord, praise him; All ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; And fear him, all ye the seed of Israel. 
For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; Neither hath he hid his face from him; But when he cried unto him, he heard. 
My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him. 
The meek shall eat and be satisfied: They shall praise the Lord that seek him: Your heart shall live for ever. 
All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord: And all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. 
For the kingdom is the Lord’s: And he is the governor among the nations. 
All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship: All they that go down to the dust shall bow before him: And none can keep alive his own soul. 
A seed shall serve him; It shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation. 
They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness Unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done this. 
