Proverbs.
Chapter 12.
Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: But he that hateth reproof is brutish. 
A good man obtaineth favour of the Lord: But a man of wicked devices will he condemn. 
A man shall not be established by wickedness: But the root of the righteous shall not be moved. 
A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: But she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones. 
The thoughts of the righteous are right: But the counsels of the wicked are deceit. 
The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: But the mouth of the upright shall deliver them. 
The wicked are overthrown, and are not: But the house of the righteous shall stand. 
A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: But he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised. 
He that is despised, and hath a servant, is better Than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread. 
A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: But the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel. 
He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: But he that followeth vain persons is void of understanding. 
The wicked desireth the net of evil men: But the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit. 
The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: But the just shall come out of trouble. 
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: And the recompence of a man’s hands shall be rendered unto him. 
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: But he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise. 
A fool’s wrath is presently known: But a prudent man covereth shame. 
He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: But a false witness deceit. 
There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: But the tongue of the wise is health. 
The lip of truth shall be established for ever: But a lying tongue is but for a moment. 
Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: But to the counsellers of peace is joy. 
There shall no evil happen to the just: But the wicked shall be filled with mischief. 
Lying lips are abomination to the Lord: But they that deal truly are his delight. 
A prudent man concealeth knowledge: But the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness. 
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: But the slothful shall be under tribute. 
Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: But a good word maketh it glad. 
The righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: But the way of the wicked seduceth them. 
The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: But the substance of a diligent man is precious. 
In the way of righteousness is life; And in the pathway thereof there is no death. 
