Amos.
Chapter 2.
Thus saith the Lord; For three transgressions of Moab, And for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; Because he burnt the bones of the king of Edom into lime: 
But I will send a fire upon Moab, And it shall devour the palaces of Kerioth: And Moab shall die with tumult, With shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet: 
And I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, And will slay all the princes thereof with him, saith the Lord. 
Thus saith the Lord; For three transgressions of Judah, And for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; Because they have despised the law of the Lord, And have not kept his commandments, And their lies caused them to err, After the which their fathers have walked: 
But I will send a fire upon Judah, And it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem. 
Thus saith the Lord; For three transgressions of Israel, And for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; Because they sold the righteous for silver, And the poor for a pair of shoes; 
That pant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, And turn aside the way of the meek: And a man and his father will go in unto the same maid, To profane my holy name: 
And they lay themselves down upon clothes laid to pledge by every altar, And they drink the wine of the condemned in the house of their god. 
Yet destroyed I the Amorite before them, Whose height was like the height of the cedars, And he was strong as the oaks; Yet I destroyed his fruit from above, And his roots from beneath. 
Also I brought you up from the land of Egypt, And led you forty years through the wilderness, To possess the land of the Amorite. 
And I raised up of your sons for prophets, And of your young men for Nazarites. Is it not even thus, O ye children of Israel? saith the Lord. 
But ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink; And commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not. 
Behold, I am pressed under you, As a cart is pressed that is full of sheaves. 
Therefore the flight shall perish from the swift, And the strong shall not strengthen his force, Neither shall the mighty deliver himself: 
Neither shall he stand that handleth the bow; And he that is swift of foot shall not deliver himself: Neither shall he that rideth the horse deliver himself. 
And he that is courageous among the mighty Shall flee away naked in that day, saith the Lord. 
