Micah.
Chapter 7.
Woe, woe is me, for I have become like a field after harvest, like a vineyard after gathering; not a cluster of grapes to eat, not a fig that anyone desires. 
The honest have perished from the land, of the upright amongst people there is none. All of them lie in wait to shed blood. They hunt one another with the net. 
Their hands know well how to do evil, the officer and judge demands a bribe, the high official decides as he pleases and they conspire to pervert justice. 
The best of them are like a thorn thicket, their most upright like a prickly hedge. The day of their punishment has come, now will be their confusion! 
Do not trust your neighbour, do not rely on a friend. From the wife who lies in your arms guard your tongue. 
For son insults father, daughter rises up against mother, daughter-in-law against mother-in-law, a man's enemies are the people of his own household. 
But I will look to the Lord, I will wait for the God of my salvation. My God will hear me! 
Do not rejoice over me, my enemy. If I have fallen, I will rise. If I sit in darkness, the Lord is my light. 
The anger of the Lord I will bear, for against him have I sinned — until he champions my cause and gives judgement for me. He will bring me into to the light, I will see his justice. 
So my enemy will see, and shame will cover them, they who said, “Where is the Lord your God?” I will look upon them, they will be trampled on like mud in the street! 
It is a day for rebuilding your walls, this day will your boundary will be extended. 
This day they will come to you, from Assyria and the cities of Egypt, and from Egypt even to the Euphrates River, from sea to sea, and from mountain to mountain. 
Though the land has become a desolation because of its inhabitants, because of their deeds. 
Shepherd your flock with your staff, the flock that belong to you, who live alone in the forest, in the midst of meadows; so that they may pasture in Bashon and Gilead as in the days of old, 
as in the days when you came from Egypt, gave us wonders to see. 
Nations will see and be ashamed of all their might; they will put their hands to their mouth, their ears will become deaf, 
they will lick the dust like snakes, like creatures that crawl on the earth; they will come trembling and in terror from their hiding places, in dread and fear. 
Who is a God like you, forgiving iniquity and passing by the rebellion of the remnant of your people? He does not retain his anger forever, but is one who delights in mercy. 
He will tread under foot our iniquity; you will cast into the depths of the sea all our iniquities. 
You will show faithfulness to Jacob, and loving kindness to Abraham, as you have sworn to our ancestors from the days of old. 
