Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 30.
“You shall make an altar to burn incense on. You shall make it of acacia wood. 
Its length shall be a cubit 18 in; 45.72 cm, and its width a cubit 18 in; 45.72 cm. It shall be square, and its height shall be two cubits 36 in; 91.44 cm. Its horns shall be of one piece with it. 
You shall overlay it with pure gold, its top, its sides around it, and its horns; and you shall make a gold molding around it. 
You shall make two golden rings for it under its molding; on its two ribs, on its two sides you shall make them; and they shall be for places for poles with which to bear it. 
You shall make the poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold. 
You shall put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with you. 
Aaron Light-bringer shall burn incense of sweet spices on it every morning. When he tends the lamp candles, he shall burn it. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
When Aaron Light-bringer lights the lamp candles at evening, he shall burn it, a perpetual incense before Adonai throughout all your generations. 
You shall offer no strange incense on it, nor burnt offering, nor meal offering; and you shall pour no drink offering on it. 
Aaron Light-bringer shall make atonement on its horns once in the year; with the blood of the sin offering of atonement once in the year he shall make atonement for it throughout all your generations. It is most holy to Adonai .” 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“When you take a census of the children of Israel God prevails, according to those who are counted among them, then each man shall give a ransom for his soul to Adonai , when you count them; that there be no plague among them when you count them. 
They shall give this, everyone who passes over to those who are counted, half a shekel 0.2 oz; 5.67 g after the shekel of the sanctuary (the shekel is 0.4oz; 11.34 g; or called twenty gerahs 20/50 of an oz); half a shekel for an offering to Adonai . 
Everyone who passes over to those who are counted, from twenty years old and upward, shall give the offering to Adonai . 
The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less, than the half shekel 0.2 oz; 5.67 g, when they give the offering of Adonai , to make atonement for your souls. 
You shall take the atonement money from the children of Israel God prevails, and shall appoint it for the service of the Tent of Meeting; that it may be a memorial for the children of Israel God prevails before Adonai , to make atonement for your souls.” 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“You shall also make a basin of bronze, and its base of bronze, in which to wash. You shall put it between the Tent of Meeting and the altar, and you shall put water in it. 
Aaron Light-bringer and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet in it. 
When they go into the Tent of Meeting, they shall wash with water, that they not die; or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn an offering made by fire to Adonai . 
So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they not die: and it shall be a statute forever to them, even to him and to his descendants throughout their generations.” 
Moreover Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Also take fine spices: of liquid myrrh, five hundred shekels 12.5 lb; 5.67 kg; and of fragrant cinnamon half as much, even two hundred and fifty shekels 6.25 lb; 2.835 kg; and of fragrant cane, two hundred and fifty shekels 6.25 lb; 2.835 kg; 
and of cassia cinnamon five hundred shekels 12.5 lb; 5.67 kg, after the shekel of the sanctuary (the shekel is 0.4oz; 11.34 g); and a hin 0.98 gal; 3.7 L of olive oil. 
You shall make it a holy anointing oil, a perfume compounded after the art of the perfumer: it shall be a holy anointing oil. 
You shall use it to anoint the Tent of Meeting, the ark of the testimony, 
the table and all its articles, the menorah ·lamp· and its accessories, the altar of incense, 
the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the basin with its base. 
You shall sanctify them, that they may be most holy. Whatever touches them shall be holy. 
You shall anoint Aaron Light-bringer and his sons, and sanctify them, that they may minister to me in the priest’s office. 
You shall speak to the children of Israel God prevails, saying, ‘This shall be a holy anointing oil to me throughout all your generations. 
It shall not be poured on man’s flesh, and do not make any like it, according to its composition. It is holy. It shall be holy to you. 
Whoever compounds any like it, or whoever puts any of it on a stranger, he shall be cut off from his people.’” 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Take to yourself sweet spices, gum resin, and onycha, and galbanum; sweet spices with pure frankincense: there shall be an equal weight of each; 
and you shall make incense of it, a perfume after the art of the perfumer, seasoned with salt, pure and holy: 
and you shall beat some of it very small, and put some of it before the testimony in the Tent of Meeting, where I will meet with you. It shall be to you most holy. 
The incense which you shall make, according to its composition you shall not make for yourselves: it shall be to you holy for Adonai . 
Whoever shall make any like that, to smell of it, he shall be cut off from his people.” 
