Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 18.
The priests the Levites Descendants of United with, all the tribe of Levi United with, shall have no portion nor inheritance with Israel God prevails. They shall eat the offerings of Adonai made by fire and his portion. 
They shall have no inheritance among their brothers. Adonai is their inheritance, as he has spoken to them. 
This shall be the priests’ mishpat ·due· from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, whether it be ox or sheep, that they shall give to the priest the shoulder, the two cheeks, and the inner parts. 
The first fruits of your grain, of your new wine, and of your oil, and the first of the first fleece of your sheep, you shall give him. 
For Adonai your God has chosen him out of all your tribes, to stand to minister in Adonai ’s name, him and his sons forever. (4) 
If a Levite comes from any of your gates out of all Israel God prevails, where he lives as a foreigner, and comes with all the desire of his soul to the place which Adonai shall choose; 
then he shall minister in the name of Adonai his God, as all his brothers the Levites Descendants of United with do, who stand there before Adonai . 
They shall have like portions to eat, in addition to that which comes from the sale of his family possessions. 
When you have come into the land which Adonai your God gives you, you shall not learn to imitate the abominations of those nations. 
There shall not be found with you anyone who makes his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, one who uses divination, one who practices sorcery, or an enchanter, or a sorcerer, 
or a charmer, or a consulter with a familiar spirit, or a sorcerer, or a necromancer. 
For whoever does these things is detestable to Adonai . Because of these abominations, Adonai your God drives them out from before you. 
You shall be perfect with Adonai your God. (5) 
For these nations that you shall dispossess sh'ma ·hear obey· those who practice sorcery and to diviners; but as for you, Adonai your God has not allowed you so to do. 
Adonai your God will raise up to you a prophet from among you, of your brothers, like me. You shall sh'ma ·hear obey· him. 
This is according to all that you desired of Adonai your God in Horeb Desert in the day of the assembly, saying, “Let me not sh'ma ·hear obey· again Adonai my God’s voice, neither let me see this great fire any more, that I not die.” 
Adonai said to me, “They have well said that which they have spoken. 
I will raise them up a prophet from among their brothers, like you. I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I shall enjoin him. 
It shall happen, that whoever will not sh'ma ·hear obey· my words which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him. 
But the prophet who speaks a word presumptuously in my name, which I have not enjoined him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other deities, that same prophet shall die.” 
You may say in your heart, “How shall we know the word which Adonai has not spoken?” 
When a prophet speaks in Adonai ’s name, if the thing does not follow, nor happen, that is the thing which Adonai has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You shall not be afraid of him. 
