Leviticus / Vayikra.
Chapter 10.
Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron Light-bringer, each took his censer, and put fire in it, and laid incense on it, and offered strange fire before Adonai , which he had not enjoined them. 
Fire came out from before Adonai , and devoured them, and they died before Adonai . 
Then Moses Drawn out said to Aaron Light-bringer, “This is what Adonai spoke of, saying, ‘I will show myself holy to those who come near me, and before all the people I will be glorified.’” Aaron Light-bringer held his peace. 
Moses Drawn out called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the dod ·uncle· of Aaron Light-bringer, and said to them, “Draw near, carry your brothers from before the sanctuary out of the camp.” 
So they came near, and carried them in their coats out of the camp, as Moses Drawn out had said. 
Moses Drawn out said to Aaron Light-bringer, and to Eleazar Help of God and to Ithamar, his sons, “Don’t let the hair of your heads go loose, and don’t tear your clothes; so that you don’t die, and so that he not be angry with all the congregation; but let your brothers, the whole house of Israel God prevails, bewail the burning which Adonai has kindled. 
You shall not go out from the door of the Tent of Meeting, lest you die; for the anointing oil of Adonai is on you.” They did according to the word of Moses Drawn out. 
Then Adonai said to Aaron Light-bringer, 
“You and your sons are not to drink wine or strong drink whenever you go into the Tent of Meeting, or you will die. This shall be a regulation forever throughout all your generations. 
You are to make a distinction between the holy and the common, and between the unclean and the clean. 
You are to teach the children of Israel God prevails all the statutes which Adonai has spoken to them by Moses Drawn out.” (4) 
Moses Drawn out spoke to Aaron Light-bringer, and to Eleazar Help of God and to Ithamar, his sons who were left, “Take the meal offering that remains of the offerings of Adonai made by fire, and eat it without yeast beside the altar; for it is most holy; 
and you shall eat it in a holy place, because it is your chok ·portion·, and your sons’ chok ·portion·, of the offerings of Adonai made by fire: for so I am enjoined. 
The breast that is waved and the thigh that is raised you shall eat in a clean place, you, and your sons, and your daughters with you: for they are given as your chok ·portion·, and your sons’ chok ·portion·, out of the sacrifices of the peace offerings of the children of Israel God prevails. 
The thigh that is raised and the breast that is waved they shall bring with the offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave it for a wave offering before Adonai : and it shall be yours, and your sons’ with you, as a chok ·portion· forever; as Adonai has enjoined.” (5) 
Moses Drawn out diligently inquired about the goat of the sin offering, and, behold, it was burned: and he was angry with Eleazar Help of God and with Ithamar, the sons of Aaron Light-bringer who were left, saying, 
“Why haven’t you eaten the sin offering in the place of the sanctuary, since it is most holy, and he has given it you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before Adonai ? 
Behold, its blood was not brought into the inner part of the sanctuary: you certainly should have eaten it in the sanctuary, as I enjoined.” 
Aaron Light-bringer spoke to Moses Drawn out, “Behold, today they have offered their sin offering and their burnt offering before Adonai ; and such things as these have happened to me. If I had eaten the sin offering today, would it have been pleasing in Adonai ’s sight?” 
When Moses Drawn out sh'ma ·heard obeyed· that, it was pleasing in his sight. 
