John [Yah is gracious].
Chapter 7.
After these things, Yeshua Salvation was walking in Galilee District, Circuit, for he would not walk in Judea Praise, because the Jews Praisers sought to kill him. 
Now the festival of Sukkot ·Tabernacles·, the Festival of Booths, was at hand. (The seventh month 15th day). 
His brothers therefore said to him, “Depart from here, and go into Judea Praise, that your disciples also may see your works which you do. 
For no one does anything in secret, and himself seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, reveal yourself to the world.” 
For even his brothers didn’t believe in him. 
Yeshua Salvation therefore said to them, “My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready. 
The world can’t hate you, but it hates me, because I testify about it, that its works are evil. 
You go up to the feast. I am not yet going up to this feast, because my time is not yet fulfilled.” 
Having said these things to them, he stayed in Galilee District, Circuit. 
But when his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but as it were in secret. 
The Jews Praisers therefore sought him at the feast, and said, “Where is he?” 
There was much murmuring among the multitudes concerning him. Some said, “He is a good man.” Others said, “Not so, but he leads the multitude astray.” 
Yet no one spoke openly of him for fear of the Jews Praisers. 
But when it was now the middle of the feast, Yeshua Salvation went up into the temple and taught. 
The Jews Praisers therefore marveled, saying, “How does this man know so much, without having studied?” 
Yeshua Salvation therefore answered them, “My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. 
If anyone desires to do his will, he will know about the teaching, whether it is from God, or if I am speaking from myself. 
He who speaks from himself seeks his own glory, but he who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and no unrighteousness is in him. 
Didn’t Moses Drawn out give you the Torah ·Teaching·? Yet none of you keeps the law! Why do you seek to kill me?” 
The multitude answered, “You have a demon! Who seeks to kill you?” 
Yeshua Salvation answered them, “I did one work, and you all marvel because of it. 
Moses Drawn out has given you circumcision (not that it is of Moses Drawn out, but of the fathers), and on the Sabbath ·To cease· you circumcise a boy. 
If a boy receives circumcision on the Sabbath ·To cease·, that the Torah ·Teaching· of Moses Drawn out may not be broken, are you angry with me, because I made a man completely healthy on the Sabbath ·To cease·? 
Don’t judge according to appearance, but judge upright judgment.” 
Therefore some of them of Jerusalem City of peace said, “Is not this he whom they seek to kill? 
Behold, he speaks openly, and they say nothing to him. Can it be that the rulers indeed know that this is truly the Messiah Anointed one? 
However we know where this man comes from, but when the Messiah Anointed one comes, no one will know where he comes from.” 
Yeshua Salvation therefore cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, “You both know me, and know where I am from. I have not come of myself, but he who sent me is true, whom you don’t know. 
I know him, because I am from him, and he sent me.” 
They sought therefore to take him; but no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come. 
But of the multitude, many believed in him. They said, “When the Messiah Anointed one comes, he won’t do more signs than those which this man has done, will he?” 
The Pharisees Separated heard the multitude murmuring these things concerning him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees Separated sent officers to arrest him. 
Then Yeshua Salvation said, “I will be with you a little while longer, then I go to him who sent me. 
You will seek me, and won’t find me; and where I am, you can’t come.” 
The Jews Praisers therefore said among themselves, “Where will this man go that we won’t find him? Will he go to the Dispersion among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks? 
What is this word that he said, ‘You will seek me, and won’t find me; and where I am, you can’t come’?” 
Now on the last day of the festival (of Tabernacles, the seventh day called Hoshana Rabbah ·Save now Great·, the seventh month 21st day), Yeshua Salvation stood and cried out, “If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink! 
Whoever puts his trust in me, as the Scripture says, rivers of living water will flow from his inmost being!” 
But he said this about the Spirit, which those trusting in him were to receive. For the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Yeshua Salvation was not yet glorified. 
Many of the multitude therefore, when they heard these words, said, “This is truly the prophet.” 
Others said, “This is the Messiah Anointed one.” But some said, “What, does the Messiah Anointed one come out of Galilee District, Circuit? 
Has not the Scripture said that the Messiah Anointed one comes of the offspring of David Beloved, and from Bethlehem House of Bread, the village where David Beloved lived?” 
So there arose a division in the multitude because of him. 
Some of them would have arrested him, but no one laid hands on him. 
The officers therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees Separated, and they said to them, “Why didn’t you bring him?” 
The officers answered, “No man ever spoke like this man!” 
The Pharisees Separated therefore answered them, “You are not also led astray, are you? 
Have any of the rulers believed in him, or of the Pharisees Separated? 
True, these 'am-ha'aretz ·people of the land· do, but they know nothing about the Torah ·Teaching·, they are under a curse!” 
Nicodemus Victory people (he who came to him by night, being one of them) said to them, 
“Our Torah ·Teaching· does not condemn a man, does it, until after hearing from him personally and finding out what he’s doing?” 
They answered him, “Are you also from Galilee District, Circuit? Search, and see that no prophet has arisen out of Galilee District, Circuit.” 
Everyone went to his own house. 
