Proverbs / Mishlei.
Chapter 12.
Whoever 'ahav ·affectionately loves· correction loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is stupid. 
A good man shall obtain favor from Adonai , but he will condemn a man of wicked devices. 
A man shall not be established by wickedness, but the root of the upright shall not be moved. 
A worthy woman is the crown of her husband, but a disgraceful wife is as rottenness in his bones. 
The thoughts of the upright are mishpat ·just·, but the advice of the wicked is deceitful. 
The words of the wicked are about lying in wait for blood, but the speech of the upright rescues them. 
The wicked are overthrown, and are no more, but the house of the upright shall stand. 
A man shall be commended according to his wisdom, but he who has a linnened mind shall be despised. 
Better is he who is lightly esteemed, and has a servant, than he who honors himself, and lacks bread. 
A upright man respects the life of his animal, but the tender racham ·merciful love· of the wicked is cruel. 
He who tills his land shall have plenty of bread, but he who chases fantasies is void of understanding. 
The wicked desires the plunder of evil men, but the root of the upright flourishes. 
An evil man is trapped by sinfulness of lips, but the upright shall come out of trouble. 
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth. The work of a man’s hands shall be rewarded to him. 
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but he who is wise sh'ma ·hears obeys· counsel. 
A fool shows his annoyance the same day, but one who overlooks an insult is prudent. 
He who is truthful testifies honestly, but a false witness lies. 
There is one who speaks rashly like the piercing of a sword, but the tongue of the wise heals. 
Truth’s lips will be established forever, but a lying tongue is only momentary. 
Deceit is in the heart of those who plot evil, but joy comes to the promoters of peace. 
No mischief shall happen to the upright, but the wicked shall be filled with evil. 
Lying lips are an abomination to Adonai , but those who do the truth are his delight. 
A prudent man keeps his knowledge, but the hearts of fools proclaim foolishness. 
The hands of the diligent ones shall rule, but laziness ends in slave labor. 
Anxiety in a man’s heart weighs it down, but a kind word makes it glad. 
A upright person is cautious in friendship, but the way of the wicked leads them astray. 
The slothful man does not roast his game, but the possessions of diligent men are prized. 
In the way of righteousness is life; in its path there is no death. 
