Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 28.
Isaac Laughter called Jacob Supplanter, blessed him, and enjoined him, “You shall not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan Humbled. 
Arise, go to Paddan Aram Elevated, to the house of Bethuel your mother’s father. Take a wife from there from the daughters of Laban White, your mother’s brother. 
May El Shaddai God Almighty bless you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, that you may be a company of peoples, 
and give you the blessing of Abraham Father of a multitude, to you, and to your offspring with you, that you may inherit the land where you travel, which God gave to Abraham Father of a multitude.” (7) 
Isaac Laughter sent Jacob Supplanter away. He went to Paddan Aram Elevated to Laban White, son of Bethuel the Syrian, Rebekah Securely bound’s brother, Jacob Supplanter’s and Esau Hairy’s mother. 
Now Esau Hairy saw that Isaac Laughter had blessed Jacob Supplanter and sent him away to Paddan Aram Elevated, to take him a wife from there,and as he blessed him, Issac Laughter enjoined these words to Esau Hairy, saying, “You shall not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan Humbled,” (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
and that Jacob Supplanter sh'ma ·heard obeyed· his father and his mother, and was gone to Paddan Aram Elevated. 
Esau Hairy saw that the daughters of Canaan Humbled didn’t please Isaac Laughter, his father. 
Esau Hairy went to Ishmael Pays attention God, and took, besides the wives that he had, Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Pays attention God, Abraham Father of a multitude’s son, the sister of Nebaioth, to be his wife. 
Jacob Supplanter went out from Be'er-Sheva Well of Seven, Well of an Oath, and went toward Haran Mountaineer. 
He came to a certain place, and stayed there all night, because the sun had set. He took one of the stones of the place, and put it under his head, and lay down in that place to sleep. 
He dreamed. Behold, a stairway set upon the earth, and its top reached to heaven. Behold, the angels of God ascending and descending on it. 
Behold, Adonai stood above it, and said, “I am Adonai , the God of Abraham Father of a multitude your father, and the God of Isaac Laughter. The land whereon you lie, to you will I give it, and to your offspring. 
Your offspring will be as the dust of the earth, and you will spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south. In you and in your offspring will all the families of the earth be blessed. 
Behold, I am with you, and will keep you, wherever you go, and will bring you again into this land. For I will not leave you, until I have done that which I have spoken of to you.” 
Jacob Supplanter awakened out of his sleep, and he said, “Surely Adonai is in this place, and I didn’t know it.” 
He was afraid, and said, “How dreadful is this place! This is none other than God’s house, and this is the gate of heaven.” 
Jacob Supplanter rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put under his head, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil on its top. 
He called the name of that place Beth-el House of God, but the name of the city was Luz at the first. 
Jacob Supplanter vowed a vow, saying, “If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and clothing to put on, 
so that I come again to my father’s house in peace, and Adonai will be my God, 
then this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, will be God’s house. Of all that you will give me I will surely give a tenth to you.” 
