Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 21.
Adonai visited Sarah Princess as he had said, and Adonai did to Sarah Princess as he had spoken. 
Sarah Princess conceived, and bore Abraham Father of a multitude a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him. 
Abraham Father of a multitude called his son who was born to him, whom Sarah Princess bore to him, Isaac Laughter. 
Abraham Father of a multitude circumcised his son, Isaac Laughter, when he was eight days old, as God had enjoined him. (5) 
Abraham Father of a multitude was one hundred years old when his son, Isaac Laughter, was born to him. 
Sarah Princess said, “God has made me laugh. Everyone who sh'ma ·hears obeys· will laugh with me.” 
She said, “Who would have said to Abraham Father of a multitude, that Sarah Princess would nurse children? For I have borne him a son in his old age.” 
The child grew, and was cameled. Abraham Father of a multitude made a great feast on the day that Isaac Laughter was cameled. 
Sarah Princess saw the son of Hagar Flight the Egyptian person from Abode of slavery, whom she had borne to Abraham Father of a multitude, metzahek ·lewd and irreverent jokes·. 
Therefore she said to Abraham Father of a multitude, “Divorce and cast out this servant and her son! For the son of this servant will not be heir with my son, Isaac Laughter.” 
The thing was very grievous in Abraham Father of a multitude’s sight on account of his son. 
God said to Abraham Father of a multitude, “Don’t let it be grievous in your sight because of the boy, and because of your servant. In all that Sarah Princess says to you, sh'ma ·hear obey· her voice. For your offspring will be accounted as from Isaac Laughter. 
I will also make a nation of the son of the servant, because he is your child.” 
Abraham Father of a multitude rose up early in the morning, and took bread and a bottle of water, and gave it to Hagar Flight, putting it on her shoulder; and gave her the child, and sent her away. She departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Be'er-Sheva Well of Seven, Well of an Oath. 
The water in the bottle was spent, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs. 
She went and sat down opposite him, a good way off, about a bow shot away. For she said, “Don’t let me see the death of the child.” She sat over against him, and lifted up her voice, and wept. 
God sh'ma ·heard obeyed· the voice of the boy. Ha mal'ak Elohim The Angel of God called to Hagar Flight out of the sky, and said to her, “What ails you, Hagar Flight? Don’t be afraid. For God has sh'ma ·hear obey· the voice of the boy where he is. 
Get up, lift up the boy, and hold him in your hand. For I will make him a great nation.” 
God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water. She went, filled the bottle with water, and gave the boy drink. 
God was with the boy, and he grew. He lived in the wilderness, and became, as he grew up, an archer. 
He lived in the wilderness of Paran. His mother took a wife for him out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. (6) 
At that time, Abimelech My father king and Phicol the captain of his army spoke to Abraham Father of a multitude, saying, “God is with you in all that you do. 
Now, therefore, swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son’s son. But according to the cheshed ·loving-kindness· that I have done to you, you shall do to me, and to the land in which you have lived as a foreigner.” 
Abraham Father of a multitude said, “I will swear.” 
Abraham Father of a multitude complained to Abimelech My father king because of a water well, which Abimelech My father king’s servants had violently taken away. 
Abimelech My father king said, “I don’t know who has done this thing. You didn’t tell me, and I didn’t sh'ma ·heard obeyed· of it until today.” 
Abraham Father of a multitude took sheep and cattle, and gave them to Abimelech My father king. Those two made a covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties·. 
Abraham Father of a multitude set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves. 
Abimelech My father king said to Abraham Father of a multitude, “What do these seven ewe lambs which you have set by themselves mean?” 
He said, “You shall take these seven ewe lambs from my hand, that it may be a witness to me, that I have dug this well.” 
Therefore he called that place Be'er-Sheva Well of Seven, Well of an Oath, because they both swore there. 
So they made a covenant at Be'er-Sheva Well of Seven, Well of an Oath. Abimelech My father king rose up with Phicol, the captain of his army, and they returned into the land of the Philistines To roll in dust (As an insult). 
Abraham Father of a multitude planted a tamarisk tree in Be'er-Sheva Well of Seven, Well of an Oath, and called there on the name of Adonai , the El 'Olam God Everlasting. 
Abraham Father of a multitude lived as a foreigner in the land of the Philistines To roll in dust (As an insult) many days. 
