Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 8.
Adonai said to me, “Take a large tablet, and write on it with a man’s pen, ‘For Maher Shalal Hash Baz’; 
and I will take for myself faithful witnesses to testify: Uriah My light Yah the priest, and Zechariah Remembered by Yah the son of Jeberechiah.” 
I went to the prophetess, and she conceived, and bore a son. Then Adonai said to me, “Call his name ‘Maher Shalal Hash Baz.’ 
For before the child knows how to say, ‘My father,’ and, ‘My mother,’ the riches of Damascus Bucket of blood and the plunder of Samaria will be carried away by the king of Assyria Level plain.” 
Adonai spoke to me yet again, saying, 
“Because this people have refused the waters of Shiloah that go softly, and rejoice in Rezin and Remaliah’s son; 
now therefore, behold, the Lord brings upon them the mighty flood waters of the River: the king of Assyria Level plain and all his glory. It will come up over all its channels, and go over all its banks. 
It will sweep onward into Judah Praised. It will overflow and pass through; it will reach even to the neck; and the stretching out of its wings will fill the width of your land, 'Immanu El God is with us. 
Make an uproar, you peoples, and be broken in pieces! Listen, all you from far countries: dress for battle, and be shattered! Dress for battle, and be shattered! 
Take counsel together, and it will be brought to nothing; speak the word, and it will not stand: for God is with us.” 
For Adonai spoke thus to me with a strong hand, and instructed me not to walk in the way of this people, saying, 
“Don’t say, ‘A conspiracy!’ concerning all about which this people say, ‘A conspiracy!’ neither fear their threats, nor be terrorized. 
Adonai Tzva'ot Yahweh Commander of heaven’s armies is who you must respect as holy. He is the one you must fear. He is the one you must dread. 
He will be a sanctuary, but for both houses of Israel God prevails, he will be a stone that causes people to stumble and a rock that makes them fall. And a trap and a snare for the inhabitants of Jerusalem City of peace. 
Many will stumble over it, fall, be broken, be snared, and be captured.” 
Wrap up the testimony. Seal the Torah ·Teaching· among my disciples. 
I will wait for Adonai , who hides his face from the house of Jacob Supplanter, and I will trust in him. 
Behold, I and the children whom Adonai has given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel God prevails from Adonai Tzva'ot Yahweh Commander of heaven’s armies, who dwells in Mount Zion Mountain ridge, Marking. 
When they tell you, “Consult with those who have familiar spirits and with the wizards, who chirp and who mutter:” should not a people consult with their God? Should they consult the dead on behalf of the living? 
Turn to the Torah ·Teaching· and to the testimony! If they don’t speak according to this word, surely there is no morning for them. 
They will pass through it, very distressed and hungry; and it will happen that when they are hungry, they will worry, and curse by their king and by their God. They will turn their faces upward, 
and look to the earth, and see distress, darkness, and the gloom of anguish. They will be driven into thick darkness. 
