Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 35.
God said to Jacob Supplanter, “Arise, go up to Beth-el House of God, and live there. Make there an altar to God, who appeared to you when you fled from the face of Esau Hairy your brother.” 
Then Jacob Supplanter said to his household, and to all who were with him, “Put away the foreign deities that are among you, purify yourselves, change your garments. 
Let us arise, and go up to Beth-el House of God. I will make there an altar to God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me on the way which I went.” 
They gave to Jacob Supplanter all the foreign deities which were in their hands, and the rings which were in their ears; and Jacob Supplanter hid them under the oak which was by Shechem. 
They traveled, and a terror of God was on the cities that were around them, and they didn’t pursue the sons of Jacob Supplanter. 
So Jacob Supplanter came to Luz (that is, Beth-el House of God), which is in the land of Canaan Humbled, he and all the people who were with him. 
He built an altar there, and called the place El Beit-El God of House of God; because there God was revealed to him, when he fled from the face of his brother. 
Deborah, Rebekah Securely bound’s nurse, died, and she was buried below Beth-el House of God under the oak; and its name was called Allon Bacuth. 
God appeared to Jacob Supplanter again, when he came from Paddan Aram Elevated, and blessed him. 
God said to him, “Your name is Jacob Supplanter. Your name shall not be Jacob Supplanter any more, but your name will be Israel God prevails.” He named him Israel God prevails. 
God said to him, “I am El Shaddai God Almighty. Be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a company of nations will be from you, and kings will come out of your body. (A:6) 
The land which I gave to Abraham Father of a multitude and Isaac Laughter, I will give it to you, and to your offspring after you will I give the land.” 
God went up from him in the place where he spoke with him. (S:6) 
Jacob Supplanter set up a pillar in the place where he spoke with him, a pillar of stone. He poured out a drink offering on it, and poured oil on it. 
Jacob Supplanter called the name of the place where God spoke with him “Beth-el House of God”. 
They traveled from Beth-el House of God. There was still some distance to come to Ephrath, and Rachel Ewe sheep travailed. She had hard labor. 
When she was in hard labor, the midwife said to her, “Don’t be afraid, for now you will have another son.” 
As her soul was departing (for she died), she named him Benoni, but his father named him Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south. 
Rachel Ewe sheep died, and was buried on the way to Ephrath (also called Bethlehem House of Bread). 
Jacob Supplanter set up a pillar on her grave. The same is the Pillar of Rachel Ewe sheep’s grave to this day. 
Israel God prevails traveled, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Eder. 
While Israel God prevails lived in that land, Reuben See, a son! went and lay with Bilhah Bashful, his father’s concubine, and Israel God prevails sh'ma ·heard obeyed· of it. Now the sons of Jacob Supplanter were twelve. 
The sons of Leah Weary: Reuben See, a son! (Jacob Supplanter’s firstborn), Simeon Hearing, Levi United with, Judah Praised, Issachar Hire, Reward, and Zebulun Living together. 
The sons of Rachel Ewe sheep: Joseph May he add and Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south. 
The sons of Bilhah Bashful (Rachel Ewe sheep’s servant): Dan He judged and Naphtali My wrestling. 
The sons of Zilpah Frailty (Leah Weary’s servant): Gad Good fortune and Asher Happy. These are the sons of Jacob Supplanter, who were born to him in Paddan Aram Elevated. 
Jacob Supplanter came to Isaac Laughter his father, to Mamre Bitter, Fatness, to Kiriath Arba (which is Hebron), where Abraham Father of a multitude and Isaac Laughter lived as foreigners. 
The days of Isaac Laughter were one hundred eighty years. 
Isaac Laughter gave up the spirit, and died, and was gathered to his people, old and full of days. Esau Hairy and Jacob Supplanter, his sons, buried him. 
