Matthew [Gift of Yah].
Chapter 22.
Yeshua Salvation answered and spoke again in parables to them, saying, 
“The Kingdom of Heaven (God) is like a certain king, who made a marriage feast for his son, 
and sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the marriage feast, but they would not come. 
Again he sent out other servants, saying, ‘Tell those who are invited, “Behold, I have prepared my dinner. My cattle and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready. Come to the marriage feast!”’ 
But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his own farm, another to his merchandise, 
and the rest grabbed his servants, and treated them shamefully, and killed them. 
When the king heard that, he was angry, and sent his armies, destroyed those murderers, and burned their city. 
“Then he said to his servants, ‘The wedding is ready, but those who were invited were not worthy. 
Go therefore to the intersections of the highways, and as many as you may find, invite to the marriage feast.’ 
Those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together as many as they found, both bad and good. The wedding was filled with guests. 
But when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man who didn’t have on wedding clothing, 
and he said to him, ‘Friend, how did you come in here not wearing wedding clothing?’ He was speechless. 
Then the king said to the servants, ‘Bind him hand and foot, take him away, and throw him into the outer darkness; there is where the weeping and grinding of teeth will be.’ 
For many are called, but few chosen.” 
Then the Pharisees Separated went and took counsel how they might entrap him in his talk. 
They sent their disciples to him, along with the Herodians, saying, “Teacher, we know that you are honest, and teach the way of God in truth, no matter whom you teach, for you are not partial to anyone. 
Tell us what you think: Does Torah ·Teaching· permit paying taxes to Caesar Ruler, or not?” 
But Yeshua Salvation perceived their wickedness, and said, “Why do you test me, you hypocrites? 
Show me the tax money.” They brought to him a denarius one day’s wage. 
He asked them, “Whose is this image and inscription?” 
They said to him, “Caesar’s Ruler’s.” Then he said to them, “Give therefore to Caesar Ruler the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.” 
When they heard it, they marveled, and left him, and went away. 
On that day Sadducees Morally-upright (those who say that there is no resurrection) came to him. They asked him hard questions, 
saying, “Teacher, Moses Drawn out said, ‘If a man dies, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up offspring for his brother.’ 
Now there were with us seven brothers. The first married and died, and having no offspring left his wife to his brother. 
In the same way, the second also, and the third, to the seventh. 
After them all, the woman died. 
In the resurrection therefore, whose wife will she be of the seven? For they all had her.” 
But Yeshua Salvation answered them, “You are mistaken, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God. 
For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are like God’s angels in heaven. 
But concerning the resurrection of the dead, haven’t you read that which was spoken to you by God, saying, 
‘I am the God of Abraham Father of a multitude, and the God of Isaac Laughter, and the God of Jacob Supplanter?’ God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.” 
When the multitudes heard it, they were astonished at his teaching. 
But the Pharisees Separated, when they heard that he had silenced the Sadducees Morally-upright, gathered themselves together. 
One of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing him. 
“Teacher, which of the mitzvot ·instructions· in the Torah ·Teaching· is the most important?” 
Yeshua Salvation said to him, “‘You shall have agapao ·total devotion love· to MarYah Master Yahweh your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.’ 
This is the greatest and most important mitzvah ·instruction·. 
A second likewise is this, ‘You shall show agapao ·total devoted love· to your neighbor as yourself.’ 
All of the Torah ·Teaching· and the Prophets depend on these two mitzvot ·instructions·.” 
Now while the Pharisees Separated were gathered together, Yeshua Salvation asked them a question, 
saying, “What do you think of the Messiah Anointed one? Whose son is he?” They said to him, “Of David Beloved.” 
He said to them, “How then does David Beloved in haRuach the Spirit call him MarYah Master Yahweh, saying, 
‘Yahweh said to adoni my Lord, sit on my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet’ ? 
“If then David Beloved calls him MarYah Master Yahweh, how is he his son?” 
No one was able to answer him a word, neither did any man dare ask him any more hard questions from that day forward. 
