Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 33.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, “Depart, go up from here, you and the people that you have brought up out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, to the land of which I swore to Abraham Father of a multitude, to Isaac Laughter, and to Jacob Supplanter, saying, ‘I will give it to your offspring.’ 
I will send an angel before you; and I will divorce the Canaanite Descendant of Humbled, the Amorite Descendants of Talkers, and the Hittite Descendant of Trembling fear, and the Perizzite Descendant of Belonging to village, the Hivite Wicked, and the Jebusite Descendants of Thresher: 
to a land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up among you, for you are a stiff-necked people, lest I consume you on the way.” 
When the people sh'ma ·heard obeyed· this evil news, they mourned: and no one put on his jewelry. 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Tell the children of Israel God prevails, ‘You are a stiff-necked people. If I were to go up into the middle of you for one moment, I would consume you. Therefore now take off your jewelry from you, that I may know what to do to you.’” 
The children of Israel God prevails stripped themselves of their jewelry from Mount Horeb Desert onward. 
Now Moses Drawn out used to take the tent and to pitch it outside the camp, far away from the camp, and he called it “The Tent of Meeting.” Everyone who sought Adonai went out to the Tent of Meeting, which was outside the camp. 
When Moses Drawn out went out to the Tent, that all the people rose up, and stood, everyone at their tent door, and watched Moses Drawn out, until he had gone into the Tent. 
When Moses Drawn out entered into the Tent, the pillar of cloud descended, stood at the door of the Tent, and spoke with Moses Drawn out. 
All the people saw the pillar of cloud stand at the door of the Tent, and all the people rose up and worshiped, everyone at their tent door. 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. He turned again into the camp, but his servant Joshua Salvation Yah, the son of Nun, a young man, didn’t depart from the Tent. (3) 
Moses Drawn out said to Adonai , “Behold, you tell me, ‘Bring up this people:’ and you haven’t let me know whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, ‘I know you by name, and you have also found chen ·grace· in my sight.’ 
Now therefore, if I have found chen ·grace· in your sight, please show me now your way, that I may know you, so that I may find favor in your sight: and consider that this nation is your people.” 
He said, “My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.” 
He said to him, “If your presence does not go with me, don’t carry us up from here. 
For how would people know that I have found chen ·grace· in your sight, I and your people? Is not it that you go with us, so that we are separated, I and your people, from all the people who are on the surface of the earth?” (4) 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “I will do this thing also that you have spoken; for you have found chen ·grace· in my sight, and I know you by name.” 
He said, “Please show me your kavod ·weighty glory·.” 
He said, “I will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim Adonai ’s name before you. I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show racham ·merciful love· on whom I will show racham ·mercy·.” 
He said, “You cannot see my face, for man may not see me and live.” 
Adonai also said, “Behold, there is a place by me, and you shall stand on the rock. 
It will happen, while my kavod ·weighty glory· passes by, that I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and will cover you with my hand until I have passed by; 
then I will take away my hand, and you will see my back; but my face shall not be seen.” 
