Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 27.
Then the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh Causing to forget, of the families of Manasseh Causing to forget the son of Joseph May he add came near. These are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, Noah Rest, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah. 
They stood before Moses Drawn out, and before Eleazar Help of God the priest, and before the princes and all the congregation, at the door of the Tent of Meeting, saying, 
“Our father died in the wilderness. He was not among the company of those who gathered themselves together against Adonai in the company of Korach Bald one, Frost, but he died in his own sin. He had no sons. 
Why should the name of our father be taken away from among his family, because he had no son? Give to us a possession among the brothers of our father.” 
Moses Drawn out brought their mishpat ·case· before Adonai . (4) 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“The daughters of Zelophehad speak right. You shall surely give them a possession of an inheritance among their father’s brothers. You shall cause the inheritance of their father to pass to them. 
You shall speak to the children of Israel God prevails, saying, ‘If a man dies, and has no son, then you shall cause his inheritance to pass to his daughter. 
If he has no daughter, then you shall give his inheritance to his brothers. 
If he has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his father’s brothers. 
If his father has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his kinsman who is next to him of his family, and he shall possess it. This shall be a statute and judgement for the children of Israel God prevails, as Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out.’” 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Go up into this mountain of Abarim, and see the land which I have given to the children of Israel God prevails. 
When you have seen it, you also shall be gathered to your people, as Aaron Light-bringer your brother was gathered; 
because in the strife of the congregation, you rebelled against my word in the wilderness of Zin, to honor me as holy at the waters before their eyes.” (These are the waters of Meribah Quarreling of Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin.) 
Moses Drawn out spoke to Adonai , saying, 
“Let Adonai , the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation, 
who may go out before them, and who may come in before them, and who may lead them out, and who may bring them in; that the congregation of Adonai not be as sheep which have no shepherd.” 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Take Joshua Salvation Yah the son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand on him. 
Set him before Eleazar Help of God the priest, and before all the congregation; and enjoin him in their sight. 
You shall give authority to him, that all the congregation of the children of Israel God prevails may obey. 
He shall stand before Eleazar Help of God the priest, who shall inquire for him by the judgments of the Urim before Adonai . At his word they shall go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he, and all the children of Israel God prevails with him, even all the congregation.” 
Moses Drawn out did as Adonai enjoined him. He took Joshua Salvation Yah, and set him before Eleazar Help of God the priest, and before all the congregation. 
He laid his hands on him, and enjoined him, as Adonai spoke by Moses Drawn out. 
