Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 25.
Abraham Father of a multitude took another wife, and her name was Keturah Incense. 
She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian Strife, Ishbak, and Shuah. 
Jokshan became the father of Sheba, and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshurim, Letushim, and Leummim. 
The sons of Midian Strife were: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah Incense. 
Abraham Father of a multitude gave all that he had to Isaac Laughter, 
but to the sons of Abraham Father of a multitude’s concubines, Abraham Father of a multitude gave gifts. He sent them away from Isaac Laughter his son, while he yet lived, eastward, to the east country. 
These are the days of the years of Abraham Father of a multitude’s life which he lived: one hundred seventy-five years. 
Abraham Father of a multitude gave up his spirit, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years, and was gathered to his people. 
Isaac Laughter and Ishmael Pays attention God, his sons, buried him in the cave of Machpelah Double, in the field of Ephron Fawn-like, the son of Zohar the Hittite Descendant of Trembling fear, which is before Mamre Bitter, Fatness, 
the field which Abraham Father of a multitude purchased of the children of Heth Trembling fear. Abraham Father of a multitude was buried there with Sarah Princess, his wife. 
After the death of Abraham Father of a multitude, God blessed Isaac Laughter, his son. Isaac Laughter lived by Beer Lahai Roi Well of the one who lives and sees. (7) 
Now this is the history of the generations of Ishmael Pays attention God, Abraham Father of a multitude’s son, whom Hagar Flight the Egyptian person from Abode of slavery, Sarah Princess’s servant, bore to Abraham Father of a multitude. 
These are the names of the sons of Ishmael Pays attention God, by their names, according to the order of their birth: the firstborn of Ishmael Pays attention God, Nebaioth, then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, 
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, 
Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
These are the sons of Ishmael Pays attention God, and these are their names, by their villages, and by their encampments: twelve princes, according to their nations. 
These are the years of the life of Ishmael Pays attention God: one hundred thirty-seven years. He gave up his spirit and died, and was gathered to his people. 
They lived from Havilah to Shur that is before Egypt Abode of slavery, as you go toward Assyria Level plain. He lived opposite all his relatives. 
This is the history of the generations of Isaac Laughter, Abraham Father of a multitude’s son. Abraham Father of a multitude became the father of Isaac Laughter. 
Isaac Laughter was forty years old when he took Rebekah Securely bound, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Paddan Aram Elevated, the sister of Laban White the Syrian, to be his wife. 
Isaac Laughter entreated Adonai for his wife, because she was barren. Adonai was entreated by him, and Rebekah Securely bound his wife conceived. 
The children struggled together within her. She said, “If it is so, why do I live?” She went to inquire of Adonai . 
Adonai said to her, “Two nations are in your womb. Two peoples will be separated from your body. The one people will be stronger than the other people. The elder will serve the younger.” 
When her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. 
The first came out red all over, like a hairy garment. They named him Esau Hairy. 
After that, his brother came out, and his hand had hold on Esau Hairy’s heel. He was named Jacob Supplanter. Isaac Laughter was sixty years old when she bore them. 
The boys grew. Esau Hairy was a skillful hunter, a man of the field. Jacob Supplanter was a quiet man, living in tents. 
Now Isaac Laughter 'ahav ·affectionately loved· Esau Hairy, because he ate Esau’s venison. Rebekah Securely bound 'ahav ·affectionately loved· Jacob Supplanter. 
Jacob Supplanter boiled stew. Esau Hairy came in from the field, and he was famished. 
Esau Hairy said to Jacob Supplanter, “Please feed me with that same red stew, for I am famished.” Therefore his name was called Edom Red. 
Jacob Supplanter said, “First, sell me your birthright.” 
Esau Hairy said, “Behold, I am about to die. What good is the birthright to me?” 
Jacob Supplanter said, “Swear to me first.” He swore to him. He sold his birthright to Jacob Supplanter. 
Jacob Supplanter gave Esau Hairy bread and stew of lentils. He ate and drank, rose up, and went his way. So Esau Hairy despised his birthright. 
