John [Yah is gracious].
Chapter 13.
Now before the festival of the Pesac ·Passover· (Nissan 14), Yeshua Salvation, knowing that his time had come that he would depart from this world to haAbba ·the Father·, having agapao ·total devoted love· for his own who were in the world, he showed agapao ·total devotion love· to them unto the end. 
During supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot Praised Dagger-man, Simeon Hearing’s son, to betray him, 
Yeshua Salvation, knowing that haAbba ·the Father· had given all things into his hands, and that he came from God, and was going to God, 
arose from supper, and laid aside his outer garments. He took a towel, and wrapped a towel around his waist. 
Then he poured water into the basin, and began to wash the disciples’ feet, and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. 
Then he came to Simeon Peter Hearing Rock. He said to him, “Lord, do you wash my feet?” 
Yeshua Salvation answered him, “You don’t know what I am doing now, but you will understand later.” 
Peter Rock said to him, “You will never wash my feet!” Yeshua Salvation answered him, “If I don’t wash you, you have no part with me.” 
Simeon Peter Hearing Rock said to him, “Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head!” 
Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Someone who has bathed only needs to have his feet washed, but is completely clean. You are clean, but not all of you.” 
For he knew him who would betray him, therefore he said, “You are not all clean.” 
So when he had washed their feet, put his outer garment back on, and sat down again, he said to them, “Do you know what I have done to you? 
You call me, ‘Teacher’ and ‘Lord.’ You say so correctly, for so I am. 
If I then, the Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet. 
For I have given you an example, that you also should do as I have done to you. 
Most certainly I tell you, a servant is not greater than his lord, neither one who is sent greater than he who sent him. 
If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. 
I don’t speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen. But that the Scripture may be fulfilled, ‘He who eats matzah ·unleavened bread· with me has lifted up his heel against me.’ 
From now on, I tell you before it happens, that when it happens, you may believe that Ena Na I AM (the Living God). 
Most certainly I tell you, he who receives whomever I send, receives me; and he who receives me, receives him who sent me.” 
When Yeshua Salvation had said this, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, “Most certainly I tell you that one of you will betray me.” 
The disciples looked at one another, perplexed about whom he spoke. 
One of his disciples, the one whom Yeshua Salvation felt agapao ·total devotion love· for, was at the table, leaning against Yeshua Salvation's chest. 
Simeon Peter Hearing Rock therefore beckoned to him, and said to him, “Tell us who it is of whom he speaks.” 
He, leaning back, as he was, on Yeshua Salvation's chest, asked him, “Lord, who is it?” 
Yeshua Salvation therefore answered, “It is he to whom I will give this piece of matzah ·unleavened bread· when I have dipped it (in the bitter herbs).” So when he had dipped the piece of bread, he gave it to Judas Praised, the son of Simeon Hearing from K'riot. 
After the piece of matzah ·unleavened bread·, then Satan Adversary entered into him. Then Yeshua Salvation said to him, “What you do, do quickly.” 
Now no man at the table knew why he said this to him. 
For some thought, because Judas Praised had the money box, that Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Buy what things we need for the feast,” or that he should give something to the poor. 
Therefore having received that piece of matzah ·unleavened bread·, he went out immediately. It was night. 
When he had gone out, Yeshua Salvation said, “Now the Son of Man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in him. 
If God has been glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and he will glorify him immediately. 
Little children, I will be with you a little while longer. You will seek me, and as I said to the Jews Praisers, ‘Where I am going, you can’t come,’ so now I tell you. 
A new commandment I give to you, that you show agapao ·total devotion love· to one another. Just as I have had agapao ·totally devoted love· towards you, you also show agapao ·totally devoted love· to one another. 
By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you have agape ·unconditional love· for one another.” 
Simeon Peter Hearing Rock said to him, “Lord, where are you going?” Yeshua Salvation answered, “Where I am going, you can’t follow now, but you will follow afterwards.” 
Peter Rock said to him, “Lord, why can’t I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you.” 
Yeshua Salvation answered him, “Will you lay down your life for me? Most certainly I tell you, the rooster won’t crow until you have denied me three times. 
