Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 54.
“Sing, barren, you who didn’t give birth; break out into singing, and cry aloud, you who did not travail with child: for the deserted wife will have more children than the children of the married wife,” says Adonai . 
“Enlarge the place of your tent, and let them stretch out the curtains of your habitations; don’t spare: lengthen your cords, and strengthen your stakes. 
For you will spread out on the right hand and on the left; and your offspring will possess the nations, and settle in desolate cities. 
“Don’t be afraid; for you will not be ashamed. Don’t be confounded; for you will not be disappointed. For you will forget the shame of your youth; and the reproach of your widowhood you shall remember no more. 
For your Maker is your husband; Adonai Tzva'ot Yahweh Commander of heaven’s armies is his name. The haKadosh Isra'el the Holy One of God prevails is your Redeemer. He will be called the God of the whole earth. 
For Adonai has called you as a wife forsaken and grieved in spirit, even a wife of youth, when she is cast off,” says your God. 
“For a small moment have I forsaken you; but with great racham ·merciful love· will I gather you. 
In overflowing wrath I hid my face from you for a moment; but with everlasting cheshed ·loving-kindness· I will have racham ·merciful love· on you,” says Adonai your Redeemer. 
“For this is like the waters of Noah Rest to me; for as I have sworn that the waters of Noah Rest will no more go over the earth, so have I sworn that I will not be angry with you, nor rebuke you. 
For the mountains may depart, and the hills be removed; but my cheshed ·loving-kindness· will not depart from you, and my covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties· of peace will not be removed,” says Adonai who has mercy on you. 
“You afflicted, tossed with storms, and not comforted, behold, I will set your stones in beautiful colors, and lay your foundations with sapphires. 
I will make your pinnacles of rubies, your gates of sparkling jewels, and all your walls of precious stones. 
All your children will be taught by Adonai; and your children’s peace will be great. 
In righteousness you will be established. You will be far from oppression, for you will not be afraid; and far from terror, for it shall not come near you. 
Behold, they may gather together, but not by me. Whoever gathers together against you will fall because of you. 
“Behold, I have created the blacksmith who fans the coals into flame, and forges a weapon for his work; and I have created the destroyer to destroy. 
No weapon that is formed against you will prevail; and you will condemn every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This is the heritage of Adonai ’s servants, and their righteousness is of me,” says Adonai . 
