Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 50.
Joseph May he add fell on his father’s face, wept on him, and kissed him. 
Joseph May he add enjoined his servants, the physicians, to embalm his father; and the physicians embalmed Israel God prevails. 
Forty days were fulfilled for him, for that is how many the days it takes to embalm. The Egyptians people from Abode of slavery wept for him for seventy days. 
When the days of weeping for him were past, Joseph May he add spoke to the house of Pharaoh, saying, “If now I have found chen ·grace· in your eyes, please speak in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, 
‘My father made me swear, saying, “Behold, I am dying. Bury me in my grave which I have dug for myself in the land of Canaan Humbled.” Now therefore, please let me go up and bury my father, and I will come again.’” 
Pharaoh said, “Go up, and bury your father, just like he made you swear.” 
Joseph May he add went up to bury his father; and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, all the elders of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, 
All the house of Joseph May he add, his brothers, and his father’s house. Only their little ones, their flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen Drawing near. 
There went up with him both chariots and horsemen. It was a very great company. 
They came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond the Jordan Descender, and there they lamented with a very great and severe lamentation. He mourned for his father seven days. 
When the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites Descendants of Humbled, saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, “This is a grievous mourning by the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery.” Therefore its name was called Abel Vanity, Mourning Mizraim, which is beyond the Jordan Descender. 
His sons did to him just as he enjoined them, 
for his sons carried him into the land of Canaan Humbled, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah Double, which Abraham Father of a multitude bought with the field, for a possession of a burial site, from Ephron Fawn-like the Hittite Descendant of Trembling fear, before Mamre Bitter, Fatness. 
Joseph May he add returned into Egypt Abode of slavery— he, and his brothers, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father. 
When Joseph May he add’s brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, “It may be that Joseph May he add will hate us, and will fully pay us back for all the evil which we did to him.” 
They sent a message to Joseph May he add, saying, “Your father enjoined before he died, saying, 
‘You shall tell Joseph May he add, “Now please forgive the disobedience of your brothers, and their sin, because they did evil to you.”’ Now, please forgive the disobedience of the servants of the God of your father.” Joseph May he add wept when they spoke to him. 
His brothers also went and fell down before his face; and they said, “Behold, we are your servants.” 
Joseph May he add said to them, “Don’t be afraid, for am I in the place of God? 
As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring to pass, as it is today, to save many people alive. (7) 
Now therefore don’t be afraid. I will nourish you and your little ones.” He comforted them, and spoke kindly to them. 
Joseph May he add lived in Egypt Abode of slavery, he, and his father’s house. Joseph May he add lived one hundred ten years. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
Joseph May he add saw Ephraim Fruit’s children to the third generation. The children also of Machir, the son of Manasseh Causing to forget, were born on Joseph May he add’s knees. 
Joseph May he add said to his brothers, “I am dying, but God will surely visit you, and bring you up out of this land to the land which he swore to Abraham Father of a multitude, to Isaac Laughter, and to Jacob Supplanter.” 
Joseph May he add took an oath of the children of Israel God prevails, saying, “God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here.” 
So Joseph May he add died, being one hundred ten years old, and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt Abode of slavery. 
