Leviticus / Vayikra.
Chapter 23.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Speak to the children of Israel God prevails, and tell them, ‘The set feasts of Adonai , which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my set feasts. 
“‘Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath ·To cease· of solemn rest, a holy convocation; you shall do no kind of work. It is a Sabbath ·To cease· to Adonai in all your dwellings. 
“‘These are the set feasts of Adonai , even holy convocations, which you shall proclaim in their appointed season. 
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening, is Adonai ’s Pesac ·Passover·. 
On the fifteenth day of the same month is the festival of Matzah ·Unleavened bread· to Adonai . Seven days you shall eat matzah ·unleavened bread·. 
In the first day you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no regular aboda ·service·. 
But you shall offer an offering made by fire to Adonai seven days. In the seventh day is a holy convocation: you shall do no regular aboda ·service·.’” 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Speak to the children of Israel God prevails, and tell them, ‘When you have come into the land which I give to you, and shall reap its harvest, then you shall bring the sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest to the priest: 
and he shall wave the sheaf before Adonai , to be accepted for you. On the next day after the Sabbath ·To cease· the priest shall wave it. 
On the day when you wave the sheaf, you shall offer a male lamb without defect a year old for a burnt offering to Adonai . 
The meal offering with it shall be one tenth of an ephah two omers; 4.6 q; 4.4 L of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire to Adonai for a pleasant aroma; and the drink offering with it shall be of wine, the fourth part of a hin 2.6 qt; 1.2 L. 
You must not eat bread, or roasted grain, or fresh grain, until this same day, until you have brought the offering of your God. This is a regulation forever throughout all your generations in all your dwellings. 
“‘You shall count from the next day after the Sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave offering; seven Sabbaths shall be completed: 
even to the next day after the seventh Sabbath ·To cease· you shall count fifty days; and you shall offer a new meal offering to Adonai . 
You shall bring out of your habitations two loaves of bread for a wave offering made of one tenth of an ephah two omers; 4.6 q; 4.4 L of fine flour. They shall be baked with yeast, for first fruits to Adonai . 
You shall present with the bread seven lambs without defect a year old, one young bull, and two rams. They shall be a burnt offering to Adonai , with their meal offering, and their drink offerings, even an offering made by fire, of a sweet aroma to Adonai . 
You shall offer one male goat for a sin offering, and two male lambs a year old for a sacrifice of peace offerings. 
The priest shall wave them with the bread of the first fruits for a wave offering before Adonai , with the two lambs. They shall be holy to Adonai for the priest. 
You shall make proclamation on the same day: there shall be a holy convocation to you; you shall do no regular aboda ·service·. This is a regulation forever in all your dwellings throughout all your generations. 
“‘When you reap the harvest of your land, you must not wholly reap into the corners of your field, and you must not gather the gleanings of your harvest. You must leave them for the poor, and for the foreigner. I am Adonai your God.’” (5) 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Speak to the children of Israel God prevails, saying, ‘In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, shall be a solemn rest to you, a memorial of blowing of shofarot ·ram horns·, a holy convocation. 
You shall do no regular aboda ·service·; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to Adonai .’” 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“However on the tenth day of this seventh month is Yom-Kippur ·Day of Atonement·: it shall be a holy convocation to you, and you shall afflict yourselves; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to Adonai . 
You shall do no kind of work in that same day; for it is Yom-Kippur ·Day of Atonement·, to make atonement for you before Adonai your God. 
For whoever it is who shall not deny himself in that same day; shall be cut off from his people. 
Whoever it is who does any kind of work in that same day, that person I will destroy from among his people. 
You shall do no kind of work: it is a statute forever throughout all your generations in all your dwellings. 
It shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for you, and you shall deny yourselves. In the ninth day of the month at evening, from evening to evening, you shall keep your Sabbath.” (6) 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Speak to the children of Israel God prevails, and say, ‘On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the festival of Sukkot ·Booths· for seven days to Adonai . 
On the first day shall be a holy convocation: you shall do no regular aboda ·service·. 
Seven days you shall offer an offering made by fire to Adonai . On the eighth day shall be a holy convocation to you; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to Adonai . It is a solemn assembly; you shall do no regular aboda ·service·. 
“‘These are the appointed feasts of Adonai , which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire to Adonai , a burnt offering, and a meal offering, a sacrifice, and drink offerings, each on its own day; 
besides the Sabbaths of Adonai , and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your free will offerings, which you give to Adonai . 
“‘So on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the fruits of the land, you shall keep the festival of Adonai seven days: on the first day shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest. 
You shall take on the first day the fruit of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and you shall rejoice before Adonai your God seven days. 
You shall keep it a feast to Adonai seven days in the year. It is a statute forever throughout all your generations. You shall keep it in the seventh month. 
You shall dwell in sukkot ·temporary tents· seven days. All who are native-born in Israel God prevails shall dwell in a sukkah ·temporary tent·, 
that your generations may know that I made the children of Israel God prevails to dwell in sukkot ·temporary tents·, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. I am Adonai your God.’” 
Moses Drawn out declared to the children of Israel God prevails the appointed feasts of Adonai . 
