Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 16.
Observe the month of Abib, and keep the Pesac ·Passover· to Adonai your God; for in the month of Abib Adonai your God brought you out of Egypt Abode of slavery by night. 
You shall sacrifice the Pesac ·Passover· to Adonai your God, of the flock and the herd, in the place which Adonai shall choose, to cause his name to dwell there. 
You shall eat no leavened bread with it. You shall eat matzah ·unleavened bread· with it seven days, even the bread of affliction; for you came out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery in haste; that you may remember the day when you came out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery all the days of your life. 
No yeast shall be seen with you in all your borders seven days; neither shall any of the meat, which you sacrifice the first day at evening, remain all night until the morning. 
You may not sacrifice the Pesac ·Passover· within any of your gates, which Adonai your God gives you; 
but at the place which Adonai your God shall choose, to cause his name to dwell in, there you shall sacrifice the Pesac ·Passover· at evening, at the going down of the sun, at the season that you came out of Egypt Abode of slavery. 
You shall roast and eat it in the place which Adonai your God chooses. In the morning you shall teshuvah ·completely return· to your tents. 
Six days you shall eat matzah ·unleavened bread·. On the seventh day shall be a solemn assembly to Adonai your God. You shall do no work. 
You shall count for yourselves seven weeks. From the time you begin to put the sickle to the standing grain you shall begin to count seven weeks. 
You shall keep the festival of Shavu'ot ·Weeks· / Pentacost ·Fifty· to Adonai your God with a tribute of a free will offering of your hand, which you shall give, according as Adonai your God blesses you. 
You shall rejoice before Adonai your God: you, your son, your daughter, your male servant, your female servant, the Levite Descendant of United with who is within your gates, the foreigner, the orphan, and the widow, who are among you, in the place which Adonai your God shall choose to cause his name to dwell there. 
You shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt Abode of slavery. You shall observe and do these statutes. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
You shall keep Sukkot ·Booths· seven days, after you have gathered in from your threshing floor and from your wine press. 
You shall rejoice in your feast, you, your son, your daughter, your male servant, your female servant, the Levite, the foreigner, the orphan, and the widow, who are within your gates. 
You shall keep a feast to Adonai your God seven days in the place which Adonai chooses; because Adonai your God will bless you in all your increase, and in all the work of your hands, and you shall be altogether joyful. 
Three times in a year all of your males shall appear before Adonai your God in the place which he chooses: in the festival of Matzah ·Unleavened bread·, in the festival of Shavu'ot ·Weeks· / Pentacost ·Fifty·, and in the festival of Sukkot ·Booths·. They shall not appear before Adonai empty. 
Every man shall give as he is able, according to Adonai your God’s blessing which he has given you. 
You shall make judges and officers in all your gates, which Adonai your God gives you, according to your tribes; and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment. 
You shall not pervert mishpat ·justice·. You shall not show partiality. You shall not take a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise, and perverts the words of the upright. 
You shall follow that which is altogether just, that you may live, and inherit the land which Adonai your God gives you. 
You shall not plant for yourselves an Asherah of any kind of tree beside Adonai your God’s altar, which you shall make for yourselves. 
Neither shall you set yourself up a sacred stone which Adonai your God hates. 
