Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 27.
Moses Drawn out and the elders of Israel God prevails enjoined the people, saying, “Keep all the mitzvot ·instructions· and statutes which I enjoin you today. 
It shall be on the day when you shall pass over the Jordan Descender to the land which Adonai your God gives you, that you shall set yourself up great stones, and coat them with plaster. 
You shall write on them all the words of this Torah ·Teaching·, when you have passed over; that you may go in to the land which Adonai your God gives you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as Adonai , the God of your fathers, has promised you. 
It shall be, when you have crossed over the Jordan Descender, that you shall set up these stones, which I enjoin you today, on Mount Ebal, and you shall coat them with plaster. 
There you shall build an altar to Adonai your God, an altar of stones. You shall not use any iron tool on them. 
You shall build Adonai your God’s altar of uncut stones. You shall offer burnt offerings on it to Adonai your God. 
You shall sacrifice peace offerings, and shall eat there. You shall rejoice before Adonai your God. 
You shall write on the stones all the words of this Torah ·Teaching· very plainly.” 
Moses Drawn out and the priests the Levites Descendants of United with spoke to all Israel God prevails, saying, “Be silent, and sh'ma ·hear obey·, Israel God prevails! Today you have become the people of Adonai your God. 
You shall therefore sh'ma ·hear obey· Adonai your God’s voice, and do his instructions and his statutes, which I enjoin you today.” (5) 
Moses Drawn out enjoined the people the same day, saying, 
“These shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people, when you have crossed over the Jordan Descender: Simeon Hearing, Levi United with, Judah Praised, Issachar Hire, Reward, Joseph May he add, and Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south. 
These shall stand on Mount Ebal for the curse: Reuben See, a son!, Gad Good fortune, Asher Happy, Zebulun Living together, Dan He judged, and Naphtali My wrestling. 
With a loud voice, the Levites Descendants of United with shall say to all the men of Israel God prevails, 
‘Cursed is the man who makes an engraved or molten image, an abomination to Adonai , the work of the hands of the craftsman, and sets it up in secret.’ All the people shall answer and say, ‘Amen ·So be it·.’ 
‘Cursed is he who dishonors his father or his mother.’ All the people shall say, ‘Amen ·So be it·.’ 
‘Cursed is he who removes his neighbor’s landmark.’ All the people shall say, ‘Amen ·So be it·.’ 
‘Cursed is he who leads the blind astray on the road.’ All the people shall say, ‘Amen ·So be it·.’ 
‘Cursed is he who withholds mishpat ·justice· from the foreigner, orphan, and widow.’ All the people shall say, ‘Amen ·So be it·.’ 
‘Cursed is he who lies with his father’s wife, because he dishonors his father’s bed.’ ‘All the people shall say, ‘Amen ·So be it·.’ 
‘Cursed is he who lies with any kind of animal.’ ‘All the people shall say, ‘Amen ·So be it·.’ 
‘Cursed is he who lies with his sister, his father’s daughter or his mother’s daughter.’ ‘All the people shall say, ‘Amen ·So be it·.’ 
‘Cursed is he who lies with his mother-in-law.’ ‘All the people shall say, ‘Amen ·So be it·.’ 
‘Cursed is he who secretly kills his neighbor.’ ‘All the people shall say, ‘Amen ·So be it·.’ 
‘Cursed is he who takes a bribe to kill an innocent person.’ All the people shall say, ‘Amen ·So be it·.’ 
‘Cursed is he who does not uphold the words of this Torah ·Teaching· by doing them.’ ‘All the people shall say, “Amen ·So be it·.’” 
