Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 29.
Then Jacob Supplanter went on his journey, and came to the land of the children of the east. 
He looked, and behold, a well in the field, and, behold, three flocks of sheep lying there by it. For out of that well they watered the flocks. The stone on the well’s mouth was large. 
There all the flocks were gathered. They rolled the stone from the well’s mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone again on the well’s mouth in its place. 
Jacob Supplanter said to them, “My relatives, where are you from?” They said, “We are from Haran Mountaineer.” 
He said to them, “Do you know Laban White, the son of Nahor?” They said, “We know him.” 
He said to them, “Is it well with him?” They said, “It is well. See, Rachel Ewe sheep, his daughter, is coming with the sheep.” 
He said, “Behold, it is still the middle of the day, not time to gather the livestock together. Water the sheep, and go and feed them.” 
They said, “We can’t, until all the flocks are gathered together, and they roll the stone from the well’s mouth. Then we water the sheep.” 
While he was yet speaking with them, Rachel Ewe sheep came with her father’s sheep, for she kept them. 
When Jacob Supplanter saw Rachel Ewe sheep the daughter of Laban White, his mother’s brother, and the sheep of Laban White, his mother’s brother, Jacob Supplanter went near, and rolled the stone from the well’s mouth, and watered the flock of Laban White his mother’s brother. 
Jacob Supplanter kissed Rachel Ewe sheep, and lifted up his voice, and wept. 
Jacob Supplanter told Rachel Ewe sheep that he was her father’s brother, and that he was Rebekah Securely bound’s son. She ran and told her father. 
When Laban White sh'ma ·heard obeyed· the news of Jacob Supplanter, his sister’s son, he ran to meet Jacob Supplanter, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house. Jacob Supplanter told Laban White all these things. 
Laban White said to him, “Surely you are my bone and my flesh.” He lived with him for a month. 
Laban White said to Jacob Supplanter, “Because you are my brother, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Tell me, what will your wages be?” 
Laban White had two daughters. The name of the elder was Leah Weary, and the name of the younger was Rachel Ewe sheep. 
Leah Weary’s eyes were weak, but Rachel Ewe sheep was beautiful in form and attractive. (3) 
Jacob Supplanter 'ahav ·affectionately loved· Rachel Ewe sheep. He said, “I will serve you seven years for Rachel Ewe sheep, your younger daughter.” 
Laban White said, “It is better that I give her to you, than that I should give her to another man. Stay with me.” 
Jacob Supplanter served seven years for Rachel Ewe sheep. They seemed to him but a few days, for the love he had for her. 
Jacob Supplanter said to Laban White, “Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in to her.” 
Laban White gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast. 
In the evening, he took Leah Weary his daughter, and brought her to him. He went in to her. 
Laban White gave Zilpah Frailty his servant to his daughter Leah Weary for a servant. 
In the morning, behold, it was Leah Weary. He said to Laban White, “What is this you have done to me? Didn’t I serve with you for Rachel Ewe sheep? Why then have you deceived me?” 
Laban White said, “It is not done so in our place, to give the younger before the firstborn. 
Fulfill the week of this one, and we will give you the other also for the service which you will serve with me yet seven other years.” 
Jacob Supplanter did so, and fulfilled her week. He gave him Rachel Ewe sheep his daughter as wife. 
Laban White gave to Rachel Ewe sheep his daughter Bilhah Bashful, his servant, to be her servant. 
He went in also to Rachel Ewe sheep, yet he 'ahav ·affectionately loved· Rachel Ewe sheep more than Leah Weary. Jacob Supplanter served Laban White yet seven other years. 
Adonai saw that Leah Weary was hated, and he opened her womb, but Rachel Ewe sheep was barren. 
Leah Weary conceived, and bore a son, and she named him Reuben See, a son!. For she said, “Because Adonai has looked at my affliction. For now my husband will 'ahav ·affectionately love· me.” 
She conceived again, and bore a son, and said, “Because Adonai has sh'ma ·heard obeyed· that I am hated, he has therefore given me this son also.” She named him Simeon Hearing. 
She conceived again, and bore a son. Said, “Now this time will my husband be joined to me, because I have borne him three sons.” Therefore his name was called Levi United with. 
She conceived again, and bore a son. She said, “This time will I yadah ·extend hands in thankful praise· to Adonai .” Therefore she named him Judah Praised. Then she stopped bearing. 
