Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 10.
At that time Adonai said to me, “Cut two stone tablets like the first, and come up to me onto the mountain, and make an ark of wood. 
I will write on the tables the words that were on the first tables which you broke, and you shall put them in the ark.” 
So I made an ark of acacia wood, and cut two stone tablets like the first, and went up onto the mountain, having the two tables in my hand. 
He wrote on the tables, according to the first writing, the Ten Words, which Adonai spoke to you on the mountain out of the middle of the fire in the day of the assembly: and Adonai gave them to me. 
I turned and came down from the mountain, and put the tables in the ark which I had made; and there they are as Adonai enjoined me. 
(The children of Israel God prevails traveled from Beeroth Bene Jaakan to Moserah. There Aaron Light-bringer died, and there he was buried; and Eleazar Help of God his son ministered in the priest’s office in his place. 
From there they traveled to Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of brooks of water. 
At that time Adonai set apart the tribe of Levi United with, to bear the ark of Adonai ’s covenant, to stand before Adonai to minister to him, and to bless in his name, to this day. 
Therefore Levi United with has no portion nor inheritance with his brothers; Adonai is his inheritance, according as Adonai your God spoke to him.) 
I stayed on the mountain, as at the first time, forty days and forty nights: and Adonai sh'ma ·heard obeyed· me that time also; Adonai would not destroy you. 
Adonai said to me, “Arise, take your journey before the people; and they shall go in and possess the land, which I swore to their fathers to give to them.” (5) 
Now, Israel God prevails, what does Adonai your God require of you, but to fear Adonai your God, to walk in all his ways, and to 'ahav ·affectionately love· him, and to abad ·serve· Adonai your God with all your heart and with all your soul, 
to keep Adonai ’s mitzvot ·instructions· and statutes, which I enjoin you today for your good? 
Behold, to Adonai your God belongs heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth, with all that is therein. 
Only Adonai had chasak ·to set one’s affection· for your fathers to 'ahav ·affectionately love· them, and he chose their offspring after them, even you above all peoples, as it is today. 
Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiff-necked. 
For Adonai your God, he is Elohei of the elohim ·God of the deities·, and the 'adonei of the adoneim ·the Lord of the lords·, the great God, the mighty, and the awesome, who does not respect persons, nor takes reward. 
He does execute right judgments for the orphan and widow, and 'ahav ·affectionately loves· the foreigner, in giving him food and clothing. 
Therefore 'ahav ·affectionately love· the foreigner; for you were foreigners in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. 
You shall fear Adonai your God; you shall abad ·serve· him; and you shall dabak ·cling to, worship· him, and you shall swear by his name. 
He is your tehilah ·praise song·, and he is your God, who has done for you these great and awesome things, which your eyes have seen. 
Your fathers went down into Egypt Abode of slavery with seventy persons; and now Adonai your God has made you as the stars of the sky for multitude. 
