1 Timothy.
Chapter 4.
God's Spirit tells us that some people will later reject God after trusting in him at first. They will believe in evil spirits that tell lies and they will follow their teaching. 
Other people who tell lies won't think about the bad things they have done and they won't be ashamed of them any more. So they will spread those lies to those people. 
People like that say, “Don't marry. It is wrong to get married.” And they say, “It is wrong to eat some foods, so don't eat them.” But God made all those foods for us to eat. We people who trust in God and know the truth can thank him for those foods and eat them. 
God made everything when he spoke long ago. Everything God made is good, and we mustn't refuse anything. We should take the food he gives us and thank him for it. When we do that, the food becomes good for us to eat. 
If you tell these things to God's people, you will be working well for Jesus Christ. You should always remember the things that God's people believe and you should keep on following the true teaching. 
Some people tell each other silly stories. Don't listen to them and don't tell other people those stories, because they are no good. But keep following God all the time. 
We look after our bodies and that is good. But if we keep busy thinking about God, that is better, because we will be blessed in this life and forever. 
What I am telling you is true. So you should think about it carefully. 
We work for God without stopping and we will go on working for him, because we hope in him. He is the living God, and he saves those of us who trust in him and he wants to save all people. 
You must tell all this to the people where you live. 
Some people might laugh at you because you are young, but you must not let them do that. You yourself must keep on doing what is right so that God's people can see that you are good and they will also know what is right for them to do. Say and do only what is right and think about what is good. Trust God and love other people. 
I will come to you later. So keep busy until I come. Read God's word and teach it to the people there and show them the right way to live. 
You know that some men told you before about God's word to you. At the same time the church elders laid their hands on you and God's Spirit made you strong. Don't forget that, 
but keep on working for God. You should keep busy and do good so that people can see that you are growing stronger. 
Watch yourself and keep on telling people God's word and don't stop doing that. When you keep telling them his word, God will save you and also those who listen to you. 
