Genesis.
Chapter 33.
On that same day Jacob saw Esau coming to him and the 400 men with him. Then Jacob told Bilhah and Zilpah, to get their children together and stand in front. Then he told Leah to get her children together and stand in the middle. And he told Rachel and her son, Joseph, to stand behind the others. 
Then Jacob went towards Esau and bowed down to the ground so that his brother would know he was ready to obey him. Seven times he bowed down. 
But Esau ran to meet Jacob and hugged him and kissed him. And the two men cried and cried because they were so happy. 
Esau looked up and saw the children and their mothers. He said, “Who are these people?” Jacob said, “God has been kind to me and given me these children.” 
Then Bilhah and Zilpah came up with their children and bowed down to Esau. 
Then Leah and her children came and bowed down, and last of all Joseph and Rachel came and bowed down to Esau. 
Esau said, “Those animals I saw on the way, what did they mean?” Jacob answered, “They are yours. I wanted you to be happy.” 
Esau said, “I have plenty of my own now, my brother. So keep them.” 
Jacob said again, “I really want you to take them, because you have had pity on me. You didn't become angry and send me away. You have been kind to me your younger brother. When I see your face it is like seeing God's face. God has been kind to me and he has given me everything I have needed.” And so in the end Esau took everything. 
Esau said, “Let us go now. I will go ahead of you.” 
But Jacob said, “You know that the children are not strong. And I must look after the sheep and cattle with their young ones. If I make them go fast even for one day they will all die. 
You go ahead and I will follow. I will go slowly with the animals and my children until I catch up with you in Edom.” 
Esau said, “Then I will leave some of my men with you.” “Why?” asked Jacob. “I only want to make you happy.” 
So that day Esau left to go back to Edom. 
But Jacob went a different way. He went on until he arrived at Succoth. He built a house there for himself and shelters for his cattle. He named the place Succoth, because Succoth means “shelters.” 
Some time later Jacob left there and went on further to Shechem. From far away in Mesopotamia he had come safely until he arrived in Canaan. He set up his camp near the city of Shechem. 
Jacob bought a place and gave the descendants of Hamor 100 silver coins. Hamor was Shechem's father. 
He piled up some stones and made an altar for God. He called it “God, the God of the Israelite people.” 
