Exodus.
Chapter 26.
“And you make the Dwelling Place with ten curtains of twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet; with cherubim, the work of a designer, you make them; 
the length of the one curtain is twenty-eight by the cubit, and the breadth of the one curtain is four by the cubit, one measure is for all the curtains; 
five of the curtains are joining to one another, and five curtains are joining to one another. 
And you have made loops of blue on the edge of the first curtain, at the end in the joining; and so you make in the edge of the outermost curtain, in the joining of the second. 
You make fifty loops in the first curtain, and you make fifty loops in the edge of the curtain which is in the joining of the second, causing the loops to take hold to one another; 
and you have made fifty hooks of gold, and have joined the curtains to one another by the hooks, and the Dwelling Place has been one. 
And you have made curtains of goats’ hair for a tent over the Dwelling Place; you make eleven curtains: 
the length of one curtain is thirty by the cubit, and the breadth of one curtain is four by the cubit; one measure is for the eleven curtains; 
and you have joined the five curtains apart, and the six curtains apart, and have doubled the six curtains at the front of the tent. 
And you have made fifty loops on the edge of the first curtain, the outermost in the joining, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain which is joining the second; 
and you have made fifty hooks of bronze, and have brought in the hooks into the loops, and have joined the tent, and it has been one. 
And the excess remaining in the curtains of the tent—the half of the curtain which is remaining—has spread over the back part of the Dwelling Place; 
and the cubit on this side, and the cubit on that side, in the remaining part of the length of the curtains of the tent, is spread out over the sides of the Dwelling Place, on this side and on that side, to cover it; 
and you have made a covering for the tent of rams’ skins made red, and a covering of tachashim skins above. 
And you have made the boards for the Dwelling Place of shittim wood, standing up; 
ten cubits is the length of the board, and a cubit and a half the breadth of one board; 
two handles are to one board, joined to one another; so you make for all the boards of the Dwelling Place; 
and you have made the boards of the Dwelling Place—twenty boards for the south side southward; 
and you make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards, two sockets under one board for its two handles, and two sockets under the other board for its two handles. 
And for the second side of the Dwelling Place, for the north side, are twenty boards, 
and their forty sockets of silver, two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board. 
And for the sides of the Dwelling Place westward, you make six boards. 
And you make two boards for the corners of the Dwelling Place in the two sides. 
And they are pairs beneath, and together they are pairs above its head to one ring; so is it for them both, they are for the two corners. 
And they have been eight boards, and their sockets of silver are sixteen sockets, two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board. 
And you have made bars of shittim wood: five for the boards of the first side of the Dwelling Place, 
and five bars for the boards of the second side of the Dwelling Place, and five bars for the boards of the side of the Dwelling Place at the two sides, westward; 
and one has caused the middle bar in the midst of the boards to reach from end to end; 
and you overlay the boards with gold, and you make their rings of gold for places for bars, and have overlaid their bars with gold; 
and you have raised up the Dwelling Place according to its fashion which you have been shown on the mountain. 
And you have made a veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen, the work of a designer; he makes it with cherubim; 
and you have put it on four pillars of shittim wood, overlaid with gold, their pegs are of gold, on four sockets of silver. 
And you have put the veil under the hooks, and have brought in the Ark of the Testimony there within the veil; and the veil has made a separation for you between the holy and the Holy of Holies. 
And you have put the propitiatory covering on the Ark of the Testimony in the Holy of Holies. 
And you have set the table at the outside of the veil, and the lampstand opposite the table on the side of the Dwelling Place southward, and you put the table on the north side. 
And you have made a covering for the opening of the tent of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen, the work of an embroiderer; 
and you have made five pillars of shittim wood for the covering, and have overlaid them with gold, their pegs are of gold, and you have cast five sockets of bronze for them.” 
