Mark.
Chapter 14.
And the Passover and the Unleavened Bread were after two days, and the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how, by guile, having taken hold of Him, they might kill Him; 
and they said, “Not in the celebration, lest there will be a tumult of the people.” 
And He, being in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, at His reclining, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment, of spikenard, very precious, and having broken the alabaster box, poured it on His head; 
and there were certain much displeased within themselves, and saying, “For what has this waste of the ointment been made? 
For this could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii, and given to the poor”; and they were murmuring at her. 
And Jesus said, “Leave her alone; why are you giving her trouble? She worked a good work on Me; 
for you always have the poor with you, and whenever you may will you are able to do them good, but you do not always have Me; 
she did what she could, she anticipated to anoint My body for the embalming. 
Truly I say to you, wherever this good news may be proclaimed in the whole world, what this woman did will also be spoken of—for a memorial of her.” 
And Judas the Iscariot, one of the Twelve, went away to the chief priests that he might deliver Him up to them, 
and having heard, they were glad, and promised to give him money, and he was seeking how, conveniently, he might deliver Him up. 
And the first day of the Unleavened Bread, when they were killing the Passover, His disciples say to Him, “Where will You, that having gone, we may prepare, that You may eat the Passover?” 
And He sends forth two of His disciples and says to them, “Go away into the city, and there a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you, follow him; 
and wherever he may go in, say to the master of the house: The Teacher says, Where is the guest-chamber, where the Passover, with My disciples, I may eat? 
And he will show you a large upper room, furnished, prepared—make ready for us there.” 
And His disciples went forth, and came into the city, and found as He said to them, and they made ready the Passover. 
And evening having come, He comes with the Twelve, 
and as they are reclining, and eating, Jesus said, “Truly I say to you that one of you who is eating with Me will deliver Me up.” 
And they began to be sorrowful, and to say to Him one by one, “Is it I?” And another, “Is it I?” 
And He answering said to them, “One of the Twelve who is dipping with Me in the dish; 
the Son of Man indeed goes, as it has been written concerning Him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of Man is delivered up; it were good to him if that man had not been born.” 
And as they are eating, Jesus having taken bread, having blessed, broke, and gave to them, and said, “Take, eat; this is My body.” 
And having taken the cup, having given thanks, He gave to them, and they drank of it—all; 
and He said to them, “This is My blood of the New Covenant, which is being poured out for many; 
truly I say to you that I may drink no more of the produce of the vine until that day when I may drink it new in the Kingdom of God.” 
And having sung a hymn, they went forth to the Mount of Olives, 
and Jesus says to them, “All of you will be stumbled at Me this night, because it has been written: I will strike the Shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered abroad; 
but after My having risen I will go before you to Galilee.” 
And Peter said to Him, “And if all will be stumbled, yet not I.” 
And Jesus said to him, “Truly I say to you that today, this night, before a rooster will crow twice, three times you will deny Me.” 
And he spoke the more vehemently, “If it may be necessary for me to die with You—I will in no way deny You”; and in like manner also said they all. 
And they come to a spot, the name of which is Gethsemane, and He says to His disciples, “Sit here until I may pray”; 
and He takes Peter, and James, and John with Him, and began to be amazed, and to be very heavy, 
and He says to them, “My soul is exceedingly sorrowful—to death; remain here, and watch.” 
And having gone forward a little, He fell on the earth, and was praying that, if it be possible, the hour may pass from Him, 
and He said, “Abba, Father; all things are possible to You; make this cup pass from Me; but not what I will, but what You will.” 
And He comes, and finds them sleeping, and says to Peter, “Simon, you sleep! You were not able to watch one hour! 
Watch and pray, that you may not enter into temptation; the spirit indeed is forward, but the flesh weak.” 
And again having gone away, He prayed, saying the same word; 
and having returned, He found them sleeping again, for their eyes were heavy, and they had not known what they might answer Him. 
And He comes the third time and says to them, “Sleep on from now on, and rest—it is over; the hour came; behold, the Son of Man is delivered up into the hands of the sinful; 
rise, we may go, behold, he who is delivering Me up has come near.” 
And immediately—while He is yet speaking—Judas comes near, one of the Twelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and sticks, from the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders; 
and he who is delivering Him up had given a token to them, saying, “Whomsoever I will kiss, it is He, lay hold on Him, and lead Him away safely,” 
and having come, immediately, having gone near Him, he says, “Rabbi, Rabbi,” and kissed Him. 
And they laid on Him their hands, and kept hold on Him; 
and a certain one of those standing by, having drawn the sword, struck the servant of the chief priest, and took off his ear. 
And Jesus answering said to them, “As against a robber you came out, with swords and sticks, to take Me! 
Daily I was with you teaching in the temple, and you did not lay hold on Me—but that the Writings may be fulfilled.” 
And having left Him they all fled; 
and a certain young man was following Him, having cast a linen cloth on his naked body, and the young men lay hold on him, 
and he, having left the linen cloth, fled from them naked. 
And they led Jesus away to the chief priest, and all the chief priests, and the elders, and the scribes come together; 
and Peter followed Him far off, to the inside of the hall of the chief priest, and he was sitting with the officers, and warming himself near the fire. 
And the chief priests and all the Sanhedrin were seeking testimony against Jesus—to put Him to death, and they were not finding, 
for many were bearing false testimony against Him, and their testimonies were not alike. 
And certain having risen up, were bearing false testimony against Him, saying, 
“We heard Him saying, I will throw down this temple made with hands, and by three days, I will build another made without hands”; 
and neither so was their testimony alike. 
And the chief priest, having risen up in the midst, questioned Jesus, saying, “You do not answer anything! Why do these testify against You?” 
And He was keeping silent and did not answer anything. Again the chief priest was questioning Him and says to Him, “Are You the Christ—the Son of the Blessed?” 
And Jesus said, “I AM; and you will see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of the Power and coming with the clouds of Heaven.” 
And the chief priest, having torn his garments, says, “What need have we yet of witnesses? 
You heard the slander, what appears to you?” And they all condemned Him to be worthy of death, 
and certain began to spit on Him, and to cover His face, and to punch Him, and to say to Him, “Prophesy”; and the officers were striking Him with their palms. 
And Peter being in the hall beneath, there comes one of the maids of the chief priest, 
and having seen Peter warming himself, having looked on him, she said, “And you were with Jesus of Nazareth!” 
And he denied, saying, “I have not known Him, neither do I understand what you say”; and he went forth outside to the porch, and a rooster crowed. 
And the maid having seen him again, began to say to those standing near, “This is of them”; 
and he was again denying. And after a while again, those standing near said to Peter, “Truly you are of them, for you also are a Galilean, and your speech is alike”; 
and he began to curse, and to swear, “I have not known this Man of whom you speak”; 
and a second time a rooster crowed, and Peter remembered the saying that Jesus said to him, “Before a rooster crows twice, you may deny Me three times”; and having thought thereon—he was weeping. 
