Job.
Chapter 42.
And Job answers YHWH and says: 
“You have known that for all things You are able, || And no purpose is withheld from You. 
You said, Who is this hiding counsel without knowledge? Therefore, I have declared, and do not understand, || Too wonderful for me, and I do not know. 
Please hear, and I speak; You said, I ask you, and you cause Me to know. 
By the hearing of the ear I heard You, || And now my eye has seen You. 
Therefore I loathe it, || And I have sighed on dust and ashes.” 
And it comes to pass after YHWH’s speaking these words to Job, that YHWH says to Eliphaz the Temanite, “My anger has burned against you and against your two friends, because you have not spoken correctly concerning Me, like My servant Job. 
And now, take seven bullocks and seven rams for yourselves, and go to My servant Job, and you have caused a burnt-offering to ascend for yourselves; and Job My servant prays for you, for surely I accept his face, so as not to do folly with you, because you have not spoken correctly concerning Me, like My servant Job.” 
And they go—Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, Zophar the Naamathite—and do as YHWH has spoken to them; and YHWH accepts the face of Job. 
And YHWH has turned to the captivity of Job in his praying for his friends, and YHWH adds to all that Job has—to double. 
And all his brothers come to him, and all his sisters, and all his former acquaintances, and they eat bread with him in his house, and bemoan him, and comfort him concerning all the calamity that YHWH had brought on him, and they each gave to him one kesitah, and each one ring of gold. 
And YHWH has blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning, and he has fourteen thousand of a flock, and six thousand camels, and one thousand pairs of oxen, and one thousand female donkeys. 
And he has seven sons and three daughters; 
and he calls the name of the first Jemima, and the name of the second Kezia, and the name of the third Keren-Happuch. 
And there have not been found women as beautiful as the daughters of Job in all the land, and their father gives to them an inheritance in the midst of their brothers. 
And Job lives after this one hundred and forty years, and sees his sons, and his sons’ sons, four generations; 
and Job dies, aged and satisfied with days.
