2 Samuel.
Chapter 11.
And it comes to pass, at the revolution of the year—at the time of the going out of the messengers—that David sends Joab, and his servants with him, and all Israel, and they destroy the sons of Ammon, and lay siege against Rabbah, but David is dwelling in Jerusalem. 
And it comes to pass, at evening-time, that David rises from off his bed, and walks up and down on the roof of the king’s house, and sees a woman bathing from the roof, and the woman is of very good appearance, 
and David sends and inquires about the woman, and someone says, “Is this not Bathsheba, daughter of Eliam, wife of Uriah the Hittite?” 
And David sends messengers, and takes her, and she comes to him, and he lies with her—and she is purifying herself from her uncleanness—and she turns back to her house; 
and the woman conceives, and sends, and declares it to David, and says, “I am conceiving.” 
And David sends to Joab, saying, “Send Uriah the Hittite to me,” and Joab sends Uriah to David; 
and Uriah comes to him, and David asks of the prosperity of Joab, and of the prosperity of the people, and of the prosperity of the war. 
And David says to Uriah, “Go down to your house, and wash your feet”; and Uriah goes out of the king’s house, and there goes out a gift from the king after him, 
and Uriah lies down at the opening of the king’s house, with all the servants of his lord, and has not gone down to his house. 
And they declare it to David, saying, “Uriah has not gone down to his house”; and David says to Uriah, “Have you not come from a journey? Why have you not gone down to your house?” 
And Uriah says to David, “The ark, and Israel, and Judah, are abiding in shelters, and my lord Joab, and the servants of my lord, are encamping on the face of the field; and should I go to my house to eat and to drink, and to lie with my wife? By your life and the life of your soul—if I do this thing.” 
And David says to Uriah, “Also abide in this place today, and tomorrow I send you away”; and Uriah abides in Jerusalem on that day and on the next day, 
and David calls for him, and he eats before him, and drinks, and he causes him to drink, and he goes out in the evening to lie on his bed with the servants of his lord, and he has not gone down to his house. 
And it comes to pass in the morning that David writes a letter to Joab and sends it by the hand of Uriah; 
and he writes in the letter, saying, “Place Uriah in front of the face of the most severe battle, and you have turned back from after him, and he has been struck, and has died.” 
And it comes to pass in Joab’s watching of the city, that he appoints Uriah to the place where he knew that valiant men were; 
and the men of the city go out and fight with Joab, and some of the people, from the servants of David, fall; and Uriah the Hittite also dies. 
And Joab sends and declares to David all the matters of the war, 
and commands the messenger, saying, “At your finishing all the matters of the war to speak to the king, 
then, it has been, if the king’s fury ascends, and he has said to you, Why did you draw near to the city to fight? Did you not know that they shoot from off the wall? 
Who struck Abimelech son of Jerubbesheth? Did a woman not cast a piece of a rider from the wall on him, and he dies in Thebez? Why did you draw near to the wall? That you have said, Also—your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead.” 
And the messenger goes, and comes in, and declares to David all that with which Joab sent him, 
and the messenger says to David, “Surely the men have been mighty against us, and come out to us into the field, and we are on them to the opening of the gate, 
and those shooting shoot at your servants from off the wall, and some of the servants of the king are dead, and also, your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead.” 
And David says to the messenger, “Thus you say to Joab, Do not let this thing be evil in your eyes; for thus and thus the sword devours; strengthen your warfare against the city, and throw it down; so you strengthen him.” 
And the wife of Uriah hears that her husband Uriah is dead, and laments for her lord; 
and the mourning passes by, and David sends and gathers her to his house, and she is to him for a wife, and bears a son to him; and the thing which David has done is evil in the eyes of YHWH. 
