Luke.
Chapter 22.
And the Celebration of the Unleavened Bread was coming near, that is called Passover, 
and the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how they may take Him up, for they were afraid of the people. 
And Satan entered into Judas, who is surnamed Iscariot, being of the number of the Twelve, 
and he, having gone away, spoke with the chief priests and the magistrates, how he might deliver Him up to them, 
and they rejoiced, and covenanted to give him money, 
and he agreed, and was seeking a favorable season to deliver Him up to them without tumult. 
And the day of the Unleavened Bread came, in which it was necessary for the Passover to be sacrificed, 
and He sent Peter and John, saying, “Having gone on, prepare to us the Passover, that we may eat”; 
and they said to Him, “Where do You will that we might prepare?” 
And He said to them, “Behold, in your entering into the city, a man will meet you there, carrying a pitcher of water, follow him into the house where he goes in, 
and you will say to the master of the house, The Teacher says to you, Where is the guest-chamber where I may eat the Passover with My disciples? 
And he will show you a large upper room furnished, make ready there”; 
and they, having gone away, found as He has said to them, and they made the Passover ready. 
And when the hour was come, He reclined, and the twelve apostles with Him, 
and He said to them, “With desire I desired to eat this Passover with you before My suffering, 
for I say to you that I may eat of it no longer until it may be fulfilled in the Kingdom of God.” 
And having taken a cup, having given thanks, He said, “Take this and divide to yourselves, 
for I say to you that I may not drink of the produce of the vine until the Kingdom of God may come.” 
And having taken bread, having given thanks, He broke and gave to them, saying, “This is My body, that is being given for you, do this in remembrance of Me.” 
In like manner, also, the cup after the dining, saying, “This cup is the New Covenant in My blood, that is being poured forth for you. 
But behold, the hand of him delivering Me up is with Me on the table, 
and, indeed, the Son of Man goes according to what has been determined; but woe to that man through whom He is being delivered up.” 
And they began to reason among themselves who then of them it may be who is about to do this thing. 
And there happened also a strife among them—who of them is accounted to be greater. 
And He said to them, “The kings of the nations exercise lordship over them, and those exercising authority on them are called benefactors; 
but you are not so, but he who is greater among you—let him be as the younger; and he who is leading, as he who is ministering; 
for who is greater? He who is reclining, or he who is ministering? Is it not he who is reclining? And I am in your midst as He who is ministering. 
And you are those who have remained with Me in My temptations, 
and I appoint to you a kingdom, as My Father appointed to Me, 
that you may eat and may drink at My table, in My kingdom, and may sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.” 
And the LORD said, “Simon, Simon, behold, Satan asked for himself to sift you as the wheat, 
and I implored for you that your faith may not fail; and you, when you turned, strengthen your brothers.” 
And he said to Him, “Lord, I am ready to go with You both to prison and to death”; 
and He said, “I say to you, Peter, a rooster will not crow today, before you may disown knowing Me three times.” 
And He said to them, “When I sent you without bag, and leather pouch, and sandals, did you lack anything?” And they said, “Nothing.” 
Then He said to them, “But now, he who is having a bag, let him take it up, and in like manner also a leather pouch; and he who is not having, let him sell his garment, and buy a sword, 
for I say to you that this which has been written is necessary to be accomplished in Me: And He was reckoned with lawless ones; for also the things concerning Me have an end.” 
And they said, “Lord, behold, here are two swords”; and He said to them, “It is sufficient.” 
And having gone forth, He went on, according to custom, to the Mount of Olives, and His disciples also followed Him, 
and having come to the place, He said to them, “Pray to not enter into temptation.” 
And He was withdrawn from them, as it were a stone’s cast, and having fallen on the knees He was praying, 
saying, “Father, if You are willing, remove this cup from Me, but not My will, but Yours be done.” 
And there appeared to Him a messenger from Heaven strengthening Him; 
and having been in agony, He was more earnestly praying, and His sweat became, as it were, great drops of blood falling on the ground. 
And having risen up from the prayer, having come to the disciples, He found them sleeping from the sorrow, 
and He said to them, “Why do you sleep? Having risen, pray that you may not enter into temptation.” 
And while He is speaking, behold, a multitude, and he who is called Judas, one of the Twelve, was coming before them, and he came near to Jesus to kiss Him, 
and Jesus said to him, “Judas, do you deliver up the Son of Man with a kiss?” 
And those around Him, having seen what was about to be, said to Him, “Lord, will we strike with a sword?” 
And a certain one of them struck the servant of the chief priest, and took off his right ear, 
and Jesus answering said, “Permit thus far,” and having touched his ear, He healed him. 
And Jesus said to those having come on Him—chief priests, and magistrates of the temple, and elders, “Have you come forth with swords and sticks as on a robber? 
While daily I was with you in the temple, you stretched forth no hands against Me; but this is your hour and the power of the darkness.” 
And having taken Him, they led and brought Him into the house of the chief priest. And Peter was following far off, 
and they having kindled a fire in the midst of the court, and having sat down together, Peter was sitting in the midst of them, 
and a certain maid having seen him sitting at the light, and having earnestly looked at him, she said, “And this one was with Him!” 
And he disowned Him, saying, “Woman, I have not known Him.” 
And after a while, another having seen him, said, “And you are of them!” And Peter said, “Man, I am not.” 
And one hour, as it were, having intervened, a certain other was confidently affirming, saying, “Of a truth this one also was with Him, for he is also a Galilean”; 
and Peter said, “Man, I have not known what you say”; and immediately, while he is speaking, a rooster crowed. 
And the LORD, having turned, looked on Peter, and Peter remembered the word of the LORD, how He said to him, “Before a rooster will crow, you may disown Me three times”; 
and Peter having gone outside, wept bitterly. 
And the men who were holding Jesus were mocking Him, beating Him; 
and having blindfolded Him, they were striking Him on the face, and were questioning Him, saying, “Prophesy who he is who struck You?” 
And many other things, slandering, they spoke in regard to Him. 
And when it became day there was gathered together the eldership of the people, chief priests also, and scribes, and they led Him up to their own Sanhedrin, 
saying, “If You are the Christ, tell us.” And He said to them, “If I may tell you, you will not believe; 
and if I also question you, you will not answer Me or send Me away; 
from now on, there will be the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of the power of God.” 
And they all said, “You, then, are the Son of God?” And He said to them, “You say it, because I AM”; 
and they said, “What need do we have yet of testimony? For we ourselves heard it from His mouth.” 
