Romans.
Chapter 8.
There is, then, now no condemnation to those in Christ Jesus, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit; 
for the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus set me free from the law of sin and of death; 
for what the Law was not able to do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God, His own Son having sent in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh, 
that the righteousness of the Law may be fulfilled in us, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. 
For those who are according to the flesh, mind the things of the flesh; and those according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit; 
for the mind of the flesh is death, and the mind of the Spirit—life and peace; 
because the mind of the flesh is enmity to God, for to the Law of God it does not subject itself, 
for neither is it able; and those who are in the flesh are not able to please God. 
And you are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you; and if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ—this one is not His; 
and if Christ is in you, the body, indeed, is dead because of sin, and the Spirit is life because of righteousness, 
and if the Spirit of Him who raised up Jesus out of the dead dwells in you, He who raised up the Christ out of the dead will also quicken your dying bodies, through His Spirit dwelling in you. 
So, then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh; 
for if according to the flesh you live, you are about to die; and if, by the Spirit, the deeds of the body you put to death, you will live; 
for as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God; 
for you did not receive a spirit of bondage again for fear, but you received the Spirit of adoption in which we cry, “Abba! Father!” 
This One—the Spirit—testifies with our spirit, that we are children of God; 
and if children, also heirs, heirs, indeed, of God, and heirs together of Christ—if, indeed, we suffer together, that we may also be glorified together. 
For I reckon that the sufferings of the present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory about to be revealed in us; 
for the earnest looking out of the creation expects the revelation of the sons of God; 
for to vanity was the creation made subject—not of its will, but because of Him who subjected it—in hope, 
that also the creation itself will be set free from the servitude of the corruption to the liberty of the glory of the children of God; 
for we have known that all the creation groans together, and travails in pain together until now. 
And not only so, but also we ourselves, having the first-fruit of the Spirit, we also ourselves groan in ourselves, expecting adoption—the redemption of our body; 
for in hope we were saved, and hope beheld is not hope; for what anyone beholds, why does he also hope for it? 
And if what we do not behold we hope for, through continuance we expect it. 
And in like manner also, the Spirit helps our weaknesses; for what we may pray for, as it is necessary, we have not known, but this One—the Spirit—makes intercession for us with unutterable groanings, 
and He who is searching the hearts has known what is the mind of the Spirit, because according to God He intercedes for holy ones. 
And we have known that to those loving God all things work together for good, to those who are called according to purpose; 
because whom He foreknew, He also foreordained, conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be firstborn among many brothers; 
and whom He foreordained, these also He called; and whom He called, these also He declared righteous; and whom He declared righteous, these also He glorified. 
What, then, will we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us? 
He who indeed did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how will He not also with Him grant to us all things? 
Who will lay a charge against the chosen ones of God? God is He that is declaring righteous; 
who is he that is condemning? Christ is He that died, indeed, rather also, was raised up; who is also on the right hand of God—who also interceded for us. 
Who will separate us from the love of the Christ? Tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? 
According as it has been written: “For Your sake we are put to death all the day long; we were reckoned as sheep of slaughter.” 
But in all these we more than conquer, through Him who loved us; 
for I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor messengers, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, 
nor things about to be, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
