Acts.
Chapter 3.
And Peter and John were going up at the same time into the temple, at the hour of the prayer, the ninth hour, 
and a certain man, being lame from the womb of his mother, was being carried, whom they were laying every day at the gate of the temple, called Beautiful, to ask a kindness from those entering into the temple, 
who, having seen Peter and John about to go into the temple, was begging to receive a kindness. 
And Peter, having looked steadfastly toward him with John, said, “Look toward us”; 
and he was giving heed to them, looking to receive something from them; 
and Peter said, “I have no silver and gold, but what I have, that I give to you; in the Name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and be walking.” 
And having seized him by the right hand, he raised him up, and instantly his feet and ankles were strengthened, 
and springing up, he stood, and was walking, and entered with them into the temple, walking and springing, and praising God; 
and all the people saw him walking and praising God, 
and they knew him, that this it was who for a kindness was sitting at the Beautiful Gate of the temple, and they were filled with wonder and amazement at what has happened to him. 
And at the lame man who was healed holding Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the porch called Solomon’s—greatly amazed, 
and Peter having seen, answered to the people, “Men, Israelites! Why do you wonder at this? Or why do you look on us so earnestly, as if by our own power or piety we have made him to walk? 
The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified His child Jesus, whom you delivered up, and denied Him in the presence of Pilate, he having given judgment to release Him, 
and you denied the Holy and Righteous One, and desired a man—a murderer—to be granted to you, 
and the Prince of life you killed, whom God raised out of the dead, of which we are witnesses; 
and on the faith of His Name, this one whom you see and have known, His Name made strong, even the faith that is through Him gave to him this perfect soundness before you all. 
And now, brothers, I have known that through ignorance you did it, as also your rulers; 
and God, what things He had declared before through the mouth of all His prophets, that the Christ should suffer, He thus fulfilled; 
convert, therefore, and turn back, for your sins being blotted out, that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the LORD, 
and He may send Jesus Christ who before has been preached to you, 
whom Heaven required, indeed, to receive until times of a restitution of all things, of which God spoke through the mouth of all His holy prophets from the age. 
For Moses, indeed, said to the fathers—The LORD your God will raise up a Prophet to you out of your brothers, like to me; you will hear Him in all things, as many as He may speak to you; 
and it will be, every soul that may not hear that Prophet will be utterly destroyed out of the people; 
and also all the prophets from Samuel and those following in order, as many as spoke, also foretold of these days. 
You are sons of the prophets, and of the covenant that God made to our fathers, saying to Abraham: And in your Seed will all the families of the earth be blessed; 
to you first, God, having raised up His child Jesus, sent Him, blessing you, in the turning away of each one from your evil ways.” 
