John.
Chapter 17.
These things Jesus spoke, and lifted up His eyes to the sky, and said, “Father, the hour has come, glorify Your Son, that Your Son may also glorify You, 
according as You gave to Him authority over all flesh, that—all that You have given to Him—He may give to them continuous life; 
and this is the continuous life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Him whom You sent—Jesus Christ; 
I glorified You on the earth, having completed the work that You have given Me, that I should do. 
And now, glorify Me, You Father, with Yourself, with the glory that I had with You before the world was; 
I revealed Your Name to the men whom You have given to Me out of the world; they were Yours, and You have given them to Me, and they have kept Your word; 
now they have known that all things, as many as You have given to Me, are from You, 
because the sayings that You have given to Me, I have given to them, and they themselves received, and have known truly, that I came forth from You, and they believed that You sent Me. 
I ask in regard to them; I do not ask in regard to the world, but in regard to those whom You have given to Me, because they are Yours, 
and all Mine are Yours, and Yours are Mine, and I have been glorified in them; 
and I am no longer in the world, and these are in the world, and I come to You. Holy Father, keep them in Your Name, whom You have given to Me, that they may be one as We are one; 
when I was with them in the world, I was keeping them in Your Name; I guarded those whom You have given to Me, and none of them were destroyed, except the son of the destruction, that the Writing may be fulfilled. 
And now I come to You, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have My joy fulfilled in themselves; 
I have given Your word to them, and the world hated them, because they are not of the world, as I am not of the world; 
I do not ask that You may take them out of the world, but that You may keep them out of the evil. 
They are not of the world, as I am not of the world; 
sanctify them in Your truth, Your word is truth; 
as You sent Me into the world, I also sent them into the world; 
and I sanctify Myself for them, that they also may be sanctified in truth themselves. 
And I do not ask in regard to these alone, but also in regard to those who will be believing in Me through their word, 
that they all may be one, as You Father are in Me, and I in You, that they also may be one in Us, that the world may believe that You sent Me. 
And I have given to them the glory that You have given to Me, that they may be one as We are one— 
I in them, and You in Me, that they may be perfected into one, and that the world may know that You sent Me, and loved them as You loved Me. 
Father, those whom You have given to Me, I will that where I am they also may be with Me, that they may behold My glory that You gave to Me, because You loved Me before the foundation of the world. 
Righteous Father, also the world did not know You, and I knew You, and these have known that You sent Me, 
and I made known to them Your Name, and will make known, that the love with which You loved Me may be in them, and I in them.” 
