Luke.
Chapter 17.
And He said to the disciples, “It is impossible for the stumbling blocks not to come, but woe to him through whom they come; 
it is more profitable to him if a weighty millstone is put around his neck, and he has been cast into the sea, than that he may cause one of these little ones to stumble. 
Take heed to yourselves, and if your brother may sin in regard to you, rebuke him, and if he may change his mind, forgive him, 
and if seven times in the day he may sin against you, and seven times in the day may return to you, saying, I change my mind, you will forgive him.” 
And the apostles said to the LORD, “Add to us faith”; 
and the LORD said, “If you had faith as a grain of mustard, you would have said to this sycamine, Be uprooted, and be planted in the sea, and it would have obeyed you. 
But who is he of you—having a servant plowing or feeding—who, to him having come in out of the field, will say, Having come, recline at once? 
But will not rather say to him, Prepare what I may dine, and having girded yourself around, minister to me, until I eat and drink, and after these things you will eat and drink? 
Does he have favor to that servant because he did the things directed? I think not. 
So also you, when you may have done all the things directed you, say, We are unprofitable servants, because that which we owed to do we have done.” 
And it came to pass, in His going on to Jerusalem, that He passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee, 
and He entering into a certain village, there ten leprous men met Him, who stood far off, 
and they lifted up the voice, saying, “Jesus, Master, deal kindly with us”; 
and having seen them, He said to them, “Having gone on, show yourselves to the priests”; and it came to pass, in their going, they were cleansed, 
and one of them having seen that he was healed turned back, glorifying God with a loud voice, 
and he fell on his face at His feet, giving thanks to Him, and he was a Samaritan. 
And Jesus answering said, “Were not the ten cleansed, and the nine—where? 
There were none found who turned back to give glory to God, except this foreigner”; 
and He said to him, “Having risen, be going on, your faith has saved you.” 
And having been questioned by the Pharisees when the Kingdom of God comes, He answered them and said, “The Kingdom of God does not come with observation; 
nor will they say, Behold, here; or, Behold, there; for behold, the Kingdom of God is within you.” 
And He said to His disciples, “Days will come when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man and you will not behold it; 
and they will say to you, Behold, here; or, Behold, there; you may not go away, nor follow; 
for as the lightning is flashing out of one part under the sky and shines to the other part under the sky, so will the Son of Man also be in His day; 
and first it is necessary for Him to suffer many things, and to be rejected by this generation. 
And as it came to pass in the days of Noah, so will it also be in the days of the Son of Man; 
they were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the Ark, and the flood came, and destroyed all; 
in like manner also, as it came to pass in the days of Lot; they were eating, they were drinking, they were buying, they were selling, they were planting, they were building; 
and on the day Lot went forth from Sodom, He rained fire and brimstone from the sky, and destroyed all. 
According to these things it will be, in the day the Son of Man is revealed; 
in that day, he who will be on the housetop, and his vessels in the house, do not let him come down to take them away; and he in the field, in like manner, do not let him turn backward; 
remember the wife of Lot. 
Whoever may seek to save his life, will lose it; and whoever may lose it, will preserve it. 
I say to you, in that night there will be two men on one bed: one will be taken, and the other will be left; 
two women will be grinding at the same place together: one will be taken, and the other will be left; 
two men will be in the field: one will be taken, and the other left.” 
And they answering say to Him, “Where, Lord?” And He said to them, “Where the body is, there the eagles will be gathered together.” 
