Zechariah.
Chapter 6.
And I turn back, and lift up my eyes, and look, and behold, four chariots are coming forth from between two of the mountains, and the mountains are mountains of bronze. 
In the first chariot are red horses, and in the second chariot brown horses, 
and in the third chariot white horses, and in the fourth chariot strong spotted horses. 
And I answer and say to the messenger who is speaking with me, “What are these, my lord?” 
And the messenger answers and says to me, “These are four spirits of the heavens coming forth from presenting themselves before the Lord of the whole earth. 
The brown horses that are therein, are coming forth to the land of the north; and the white have come forth to their back part; and the spotted have come forth to the land of the south; 
and the strong ones have come forth, and they seek to go to walk up and down in the earth”; and he says, “Go, walk up and down in the earth”; and they walk up and down in the earth. 
And he calls me, and speaks to me, saying, “See, those coming forth to the land of the north have caused My Spirit to rest in the land of the north.” 
And there is a word of YHWH to me, saying, 
“Take of the captivity (who came from Babylon) from Heldai, from Tobijah, and from Jedaiah, and you have come in—you, in that day, indeed, you have come into the house of Josiah son of Zephaniah, 
and you have taken silver and gold, and have made a crown, and have placed it on the head of Joshua son of Josedech, the high priest, 
and have spoken to him, saying, || Thus spoke YHWH of Hosts, saying, || Behold, the Man! A Shoot—is His Name, || And from His place He shoots up, || And He has built the temple of YHWH. 
Indeed, He builds the temple of YHWH, || And He carries away splendor, || And He has sat and ruled on His throne, || And has been a priest on His throne, || And a counsel of peace is between both. 
And the crown is to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in the temple of YHWH. 
And the far-off come in, and they have built in the temple of YHWH, and you have known that YHWH of Hosts has sent me to you, indeed, it has come to pass, if you certainly listen to the voice of your God YHWH.” 
