Deuteronomy.
Chapter 18.
“There is not for the priests, the Levites—all the tribe of Levi—a portion and inheritance with Israel; they eat fire-offerings of YHWH, even His inheritance, 
and he has no inheritance in the midst of his brothers; YHWH Himself is his inheritance, as He has spoken to him. 
And this is the priest’s right from the people, from those sacrificing a sacrifice, whether ox or sheep, he has even given to the priest the leg, and the two cheeks, and the stomach; 
you give to him the first of your grain, of your new wine, and of your oil, and the first of the fleece of your flock; 
for your God YHWH has fixed on him, out of all your tribes, to stand to serve in the Name of YHWH—him and his sons continually. 
And when the Levite comes from one of your cities, out of all Israel where he has sojourned, and has come with all the desire of his soul to the place which YHWH chooses, 
then he has ministered in the Name of his God YHWH like all his brothers, the Levites, who are standing there before YHWH. 
They eat portion like portion, apart from his sold things from the fathers. 
When you are coming into the land which your God YHWH is giving to you, you do not learn to do according to the abominations of those nations. 
There is not found in you one causing his son and his daughter to pass over into fire, a user of divinations, an observer of clouds, and an enchanter, and a sorcerer, 
and a charmer, and one inquiring from a familiar spirit, and a wizard, and one seeking to the dead. 
For everyone doing these is an abomination to YHWH, and because of these abominations your God YHWH is dispossessing them from your presence. 
You must be perfect with your God YHWH, 
for these nations whom you are possessing listen to observers of clouds and to diviners; but you—your God YHWH has not permitted you so. 
Your God YHWH raises up for you a Prophet like me out of your midst, out of your brothers—you must listen to Him, 
according to all that you asked from your God YHWH in Horeb, in the day of the assembly, saying, Do not let me add to hear the voice of my God YHWH, and do not let me see this great fire anymore, and I do not die; 
and YHWH says to me, They have done well in what they have spoken; 
I raise up for them a Prophet like you out of the midst of their brothers, and I have given My words in His mouth, and He has spoken to them all that which I command Him; 
and it has been that the man who does not listen to My words which He speaks in My Name, I require it of him. 
Only, the prophet who presumes to speak a word in My Name, which I have not commanded him to speak, and who speaks in the name of other gods, indeed, that prophet has died. 
And when you say in your heart, How do we know the word which YHWH has not spoken? 
That which the prophet speaks in the Name of YHWH, and the thing is not, and does not come—it is the word which YHWH has not spoken; the prophet has spoken it in presumption; you are not afraid of him.” 
