Joshua.
Chapter 15.
And the lot for the tribe of the sons of Judah, for their families, is to the border of Edom; the wilderness of Zin southward, at the extremity of the south; 
and to them the south border is at the extremity of the Salt Sea, from the bay which is looking southward; 
and it has gone out to the south to Maaleh-Akrabbim, and passed over to Zin, and gone up on the south to Kadesh-Barnea, and passed over to Hezron, and gone up to Adar, and turned around to Karkaa, 
and passed over to Azmon, and gone out at the Brook of Egypt, and the outgoings of the border have been at the sea; this is the south border to you. 
And the east border is the Salt Sea, to the extremity of the Jordan, and the border at the north quarter is from the bay of the sea, at the extremity of the Jordan; 
and the border has gone up to Beth-Hoglah, and passed over on the north of Beth-Arabah, and the border has gone up to the stone of Bohan son of Reuben: 
and the border has gone up toward Debir from the Valley of Achor, and northward looking to Gilgal, which is opposite the ascent of Adummim, which is on the south of the brook, and the border has passed over to the waters of En-Shemesh, and its outgoings have been to En-Rogel; 
and the border has gone up the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, to the side of the Jebusite on the south (it is Jerusalem), and the border has gone up to the top of the hill-country which is on the front of the Valley of Hinnom westward, which is in the extremity of the Valley of the Rephaim northward; 
and the border has been marked out, from the top of the hill-country to the fountain of the waters of Nephtoah, and has gone out to the cities of Mount Ephron, and the border has been marked out to Ba‘alah (it is Kirjath-Jearim); 
and the border has gone around from Ba‘alah westward, to Mount Seir, and passed over to the side of Mount Jearim (it is Chesalon), on the north, and gone down to Beth-Shemesh, and passed over to Timnah; 
and the border has gone out to the side of Ekron northward, and the border has been marked out to Shicron, and has passed over to Mount Ba‘alah, and gone out to Jabneel; and the outgoings of the border have been at the sea. 
And the west border is to the Great Sea, and its border; this is the border of the sons of Judah all around for their families. 
And to Caleb son of Jephunneh he has given a portion in the midst of the sons of Judah, according to the command of YHWH to Joshua, even the city of Arba, father of Anak—it is Hebron. 
And Caleb is dispossessing there the three sons of Anak: Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, children of Anak, 
and he goes up there to the inhabitants of Debir; and the name of Debir was formerly Kirjath-Sepher. 
And Caleb says, “He who strikes Kirjath-Sephar, and has captured it—I have given my daughter Achsah to him for a wife.” 
And Othniel son of Kenaz, brother of Caleb, captures it, and he gives his daughter Achsah to him for a wife. 
And it comes to pass, in her coming in, that she persuades him to ask for a field from her father, and she comes down off the donkey, and Caleb says to her, “What do you want?” 
And she says, “Give a blessing to me; when you have given me the land of the south, then you have given springs of waters to me”; and he gives the upper springs and the lower springs to her. 
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Judah, for their families. 
And the cities at the extremity of the tribe of the sons of Judah are to the border of Edom in the south, Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur, 
and Kinah, and Dimonah, and Adadah, 
and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan, 
Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth, 
and Hazor, Hadattah, and Kerioth, Hezron (it is Hazor), 
Amam, and Shema, and Moladah, 
and Hazar-Gaddah, and Heshmon, and Beth-Palet, 
and Hazar-Shual, and Beer-Sheba, and Bizjothjah, 
Ba‘alah, and Iim, and Azem, 
and Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah, 
and Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah, 
and Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon; all the cities are twenty-nine, and their villages. 
In the low country: Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah, 
and Zanoah, and En-Gannim, Tappuah, and Enam, 
Jarmuth, and Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah, 
and Sharaim, and Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederothaim; fourteen cities and their villages. 
Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdal-Gad, 
and Dilean, and Mizpeh, and Joktheel, 
Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon, 
and Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Kithlish, 
and Gederoth, Beth-Dagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah; sixteen cities and their villages. 
Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan, 
and Jiphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib, 
and Keilah, and Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities and their villages. 
Ekron and its towns and its villages, 
from Ekron and westward, all that are by the side of Ashdod, and their villages. 
Ashdod, its towns and its villages, Gaza, its towns and its villages, to the Brook of Egypt, and the Great Sea, and its border. 
And in the hill-country: Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh, 
and Dannah, and Kirjath-Sannah (it is Debir), 
and Anab, and Eshtemoh, and Anim, 
and Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities and their villages. 
Arab, and Dumah, and Eshean, 
and Janum, and Beth-Tappuah, and Aphekah, 
and Humtah, and Kirjath-Arba (it is Hebron), and Zior; nine cities and their villages. 
Maon, Carmel, and Ziph, and Juttah, 
and Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah, 
Cain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities and their villages. 
Halhul, Beth-Zur, and Gedor, 
and Maarath, and Beth-Anoth, and Eltekon; six cities and their villages. 
Kirjath-Ba‘al (it is Kirjath-Jearim), and Rabbah; two cities and their villages. 
In the wilderness: Beth-Arabah, Middin, and Secacah, 
and Nibshan, and the City of Salt, and En-Gedi; six cities and their villages. 
As for the Jebusites, inhabitants of Jerusalem, the sons of Judah have not been able to dispossess them, and the Jebusite dwells with the sons of Judah in Jerusalem to this day. 
