Genesis.
Chapter 10.
And these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth: and sons are born to them after the flood. 
Sons of Japheth are Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. 
And sons of Gomer are Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah. 
And sons of Javan are Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. 
By these the islands of the nations have been parted in their lands, each by his tongue, by their families, in their nations. 
And sons of Ham are Cush, and Mitzraim, and Phut, and Canaan. 
And sons of Cush are Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtechah; and sons of Raamah are Sheba and Dedan. 
And Cush has begotten Nimrod; 
he has begun to be a hero in the land; he has been a hero in hunting before YHWH; therefore it is said, “As Nimrod the hero in hunting before YHWH.” 
And the first part of his kingdom is Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar; 
from that land he has gone out to Asshur, and builds Nineveh, even the broad places of the city, and Calah, 
and Resen, between Nineveh and Calah; it is the great city. 
And Mitzraim has begotten the Ludim, and the Anamim, and the Lehabim, and the Naphtuhim, 
and the Pathrusim, and the Casluhim (from where have come out Philistim), and the Caphtorim. 
And Canaan has begotten Sidon his firstborn, and Heth, 
and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite, 
and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 
and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite; and afterward the families of the Canaanite have been scattered. 
And the border of the Canaanite is from Sidon, in your coming toward Gerar, to Gaza; in your coming toward Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, to Lasha. 
These are sons of Ham, by their families, by their tongues, in their lands, in their nations. 
As for Shem, father of all sons of Eber, the older brother of Japheth, he has also begotten. 
Sons of Shem are Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram. 
And sons of Aram are Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash. 
And Arphaxad has begotten Salah, and Salah has begotten Eber. 
And two sons have been born to Eber; the name of the first is Peleg (for in his days the earth has been divided), and his brother’s name is Joktan. 
And Joktan has begotten Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah, 
and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
and Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba, 
and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab; all these are sons of Joktan; 
and their dwelling is from Mesha, in your coming toward Sephar, a mountain of the east. 
These are sons of Shem, by their families, by their tongues, in their lands, by their nations. 
These are families of the sons of Noah, by their generations, in their nations, and by these the nations have been parted in the earth after the flood. 
