Matthew.
Chapter 19.
And it came to pass, when Jesus finished these words, He removed from Galilee, and came to the borders of Judea, beyond the Jordan, 
and great multitudes followed Him, and He healed them there. 
And the Pharisees came near to Him, tempting Him, and saying to Him, “Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?” 
And He answering said to them, “Did you not read that He who made them from the beginning, made them a male and a female, 
and said, For this cause will a man leave father and mother, and cleave to his wife, and they will be—the two—for one flesh? 
So that they are no longer two, but one flesh; what therefore God joined together, let no man separate.” 
They say to Him, “Why then did Moses command to give a roll of divorce, and to put her away?” 
He says to them, “Moses for your stiffness of heart permitted you to put away your wives, but from the beginning it has not been so. 
And I say to you that whoever may put away his wife, if not for whoredom, and may marry another, commits adultery; and he who married her that has been put away, commits adultery.” 
His disciples say to Him, “If the case of the man with the woman is so, it is not good to marry.” 
And He said to them, “All do not receive this word, but those to whom it has been given; 
for there are eunuchs who from the mother’s womb were so born; and there are eunuchs who were made eunuchs by men; and there are eunuchs who kept themselves eunuchs because of the kingdom of the heavens: he who is able to receive it—let him receive.” 
Then were brought near to Him children that He might put hands on them and pray, and the disciples rebuked them. 
But Jesus said, “Permit the children, and do not forbid them to come to Me, for of such is the kingdom of the heavens”; 
and having laid His hands on them, He departed from there. 
And behold, one having come near, said to Him, “Good Teacher, what good thing will I do that I may have continuous life?” 
And He said to him, “Why do you call Me good? No one is good except one—God; but if you will to enter into life, keep the commands.” 
He says to Him, “What kind?” And Jesus said, “You will not murder, You will not commit adultery, You will not steal, You will not bear false witness, 
Honor your father and mother, and, You will love your neighbor as yourself.” 
The young man says to Him, “All these I kept from my youth; what yet do I lack?” 
Jesus said to him, “If you will to be perfect, go away, sell what you have, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in Heaven, and come, follow Me.” 
And the young man, having heard the word, went away sorrowful, for he had many possessions; 
and Jesus said to His disciples, “Truly I say to you that hardly will a rich man enter into the kingdom of the heavens; 
and again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of God.” 
And His disciples having heard, were exceedingly amazed, saying, “Who, then, is able to be saved?” 
And Jesus having earnestly beheld, said to them, “With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.” 
Then Peter answering said to Him, “Behold, we left all, and followed You, what then will we have?” 
And Jesus said to them, “Truly I say to you that you who followed Me, in the regeneration, when the Son of Man may sit on a throne of His glory, will sit—you also—on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel; 
and everyone who left houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or fields, for My Name’s sake, will receive a hundredfold, and will inherit continuous life; 
and many first will be last, and last first.” 
