Numbers.
Chapter 6.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you have said to them: When a man or woman does extraordinarily by vowing a vow of a Nazarite, to be separate to YHWH, 
he keeps separate from wine and strong drink; he does not drink vinegar of wine and vinegar of strong drink, and he does not drink any juice of grapes, and he does not eat moist or dry grapes; 
all the days of his separation he does not eat of anything which is made of the wine-vine, from kernels even to husk. 
All the days of the vow of his separation a razor does not pass over his head; he is holy until the fullness of the days in which he separates himself to YHWH; the upper part of the hair of his head has grown up. 
All the days of his keeping separate to YHWH, he does not go near a dead person; 
for his father, or for his mother, for his brother, or for his sister—he does not become unclean for them at their death, for the separation of his God is on his head; 
all the days of his separation he is holy to YHWH. 
And when the dead dies beside him in an instant, suddenly, and he has defiled the head of his separation, then he has shaved his head in the day of his cleansing; on the seventh day he shaves it, 
and on the eighth day he brings in two turtle-doves or two young pigeons to the priest, to the opening of the Tent of Meeting, 
and the priest has prepared one for a sin-offering and one for a burnt-offering, and has made atonement for him because of that which he has sinned by the body, and he has hallowed his head on that day; 
and he has separated to YHWH the days of his separation, and he has brought in a lamb, a son of a year, for a guilt-offering, and the former days are fallen, for his separation has been defiled. 
And this is the law of the Nazarite: in the day of the fullness of the days of his separation, he is brought to the opening of the Tent of Meeting, 
and he has brought his offering near to YHWH—one male lamb, a son of a year, a perfect one, for a burnt-offering, and one female lamb, a daughter of a year, a perfect one, for a sin-offering, and one ram, a perfect one, for peace-offerings, 
and a basket of unleavened things of flour, cakes mixed with oil, and thin cakes of unleavened things anointed with oil, and their present, and their drink-offerings. 
And the priest has brought them near before YHWH, and has made his sin-offering and his burnt-offering; 
and he makes the ram as a sacrifice of peace-offerings to YHWH, besides the basket of unleavened things; and the priest has made its present and its drink-offering. 
And the Nazarite has shaved (at the opening of the Tent of Meeting) the head of his separation, and has taken the hair of the head of his separation, and has put it on the fire which is under the sacrifice of the peace-offerings. 
And the priest has taken the boiled shoulder from the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one thin unleavened cake, and has put them on the palms of the Nazarite after his shaving the hair of his separation; 
and the priest has waved them as a wave-offering before YHWH; it is holy to the priest, besides the breast of the wave-offering, and besides the leg of the raised-offering; and afterward the Nazarite drinks wine. 
This is the law of the Nazarite who vows his offering to YHWH for his separation, apart from that which his hand attains; according to his vow which he vows so he does by the law of his separation.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, Thus you bless the sons of Israel, saying to them: 
YHWH bless you and keep you; 
YHWH cause His face to shine on you, || And favor you; 
YHWH lift up His countenance on you, || And appoint for you—peace. 
And they have put My Name on the sons of Israel, and I bless them.” 
