Genesis.
Chapter 5.
This is an account of the generations of Adam. In the day of God’s creating man, in the likeness of God He has made him; 
a male and a female He has created them, and He blesses them, and calls their name Man, in the day of their being created. 
And Adam lives one hundred and thirty years or two hundred and thirty years, and begets a son in his likeness, according to his image, and calls his name Seth. 
And the days of Adam after his begetting Seth are eight hundred years or seven hundred years, and he begets sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Adam which he lived are nine hundred and thirty years, and he dies. 
And Seth lives one hundred and five years or two hundred and five years, and begets Enos. 
And Seth lives after his begetting Enos eight hundred and seven years or seven hundred and seven years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Seth are nine hundred and twelve years, and he dies. 
And Enos lives ninety years or one hundred and ninety years, and begets Cainan. 
And Enos lives after his begetting Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years or seven hundred and fifteen years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Enos are nine hundred and five years, and he dies. 
And Cainan lives seventy years or one hundred and seventy years, and begets Mahalaleel. 
And Cainan lives after his begetting Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years or seven hundred and forty years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Cainan are nine hundred and ten years, and he dies. 
And Mahalaleel lives sixty-five years or one hundred and sixty-five years, and begets Jared. 
And Mahalaleel lives after his begetting Jared eight hundred and thirty years or seven hundred and thirty years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Mahalaleel are eight hundred and ninety-five years, and he dies. 
And Jared lives one hundred and sixty-two years, and begets Enoch. 
And Jared lives after his begetting Enoch eight hundred years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Jared are nine hundred and sixty-two years, and he dies. 
And Enoch lives sixty-five years or one hundred and sixty-five years, and begets Methuselah. 
And Enoch habitually walks with God after his begetting Methuselah three hundred years or two hundred years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Enoch are three hundred and sixty-five years. 
And Enoch habitually walks with God, and he is not, for God has taken him. 
And Methuselah lives one hundred and eighty-seven years, and begets Lamech. 
And Methuselah lives after his begetting Lamech seven hundred and eighty-two years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Methuselah are nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and he dies. 
And Lamech lives one hundred and eighty-two years or one hundred and eighty-eight years, and begets a son, 
and calls his name Noah, saying, “This one comforts us concerning our work, and concerning the labor of our hands, because of the ground which YHWH has cursed.” 
And Lamech lives after his begetting Noah five hundred and ninety-five years or five hundred and sixty-five years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Lamech are seven hundred and seventy-seven years or seven hundred and fifty-three years, and he dies. 
And Noah is a son of five hundred years, and Noah begets Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
