Acts.
Chapter 2.
And in the day of the Pentecost being fulfilled, they were all with one accord at the same place, 
and there came suddenly out of the sky a sound as of a violent rushing wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting, 
and there appeared to them divided tongues, as it were of fire; it also sat on each one of them, 
and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues, according as the Spirit was giving them to declare. 
And there were Jews dwelling in Jerusalem, devout men from every nation of those under the heaven, 
and the rumor of this having come, the multitude came together, and was confounded, because they were, each one, hearing them speaking in his proper dialect, 
and they were all amazed, and wondered, saying to one another, “Behold, are not all these who are speaking Galileans? 
And how do we hear, each in our proper dialect, in which we were born? 
Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and those dwelling in Mesopotamia, in Judea also, and Cappadocia, Pontus, and Asia, 
Phrygia also, and Pamphylia, Egypt, and the parts of Libya that are along Cyrene, and the strangers of Rome, both Jews and proselytes, 
Cretes and Arabians, we heard them speaking the great things of God in our tongues.” 
And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying to one another, “What would this wish to be?” 
And others mocking said, “They are full of sweet wine”; 
and Peter having stood up with the Eleven, lifted up his voice and declared to them: “Men—Jews, and all those dwelling in Jerusalem! Let this be known to you, and listen to my sayings, 
for these are not drunken, as you take it up, for it is the third hour of the day. 
But this is that which has been spoken through the prophet Joel: 
And it will be in the last days, says God, || I will pour out of My Spirit on all flesh, || And your sons and your daughters will prophesy, || And your young men will see visions, || And your old men will dream dreams; 
And also on My menservants, and on My maidservants, || In those days, I will pour out of My Spirit, || And they will prophesy; 
And I will give wonders in the sky above, || And signs on the earth beneath—Blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke, 
The sun will be turned to darkness, || And the moon to blood, || Before the coming of the Day of the LORD—the great and conspicuous; 
And it will be, everyone who, if he may have called on the Name of the LORD, will be saved. 
Men, Israelites! Hear these words: Jesus the Nazarene, a man approved of God among you by mighty works, and wonders, and signs, that God did through Him in the midst of you, according as also you yourselves have known, 
this One, by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, being given out, having been taken by lawless hands, having been crucified—you slew, 
whom God raised up, having loosed the travails of death, because it was not possible for Him to be held by it; 
for David says in regard to Him: I foresaw the LORD always before me—Because He is on my right hand—That I may not be moved; 
Because of this was my heart cheered, || And my tongue was glad, || And yet—my flesh will also rest on hope, 
Because You will not leave my soul to Hades, || Nor will You give Your Holy One to see corruption; 
You made known to me ways of life, || You will fill me with joy with Your countenance. 
Men, brothers! It is permitted to speak with freedom to you concerning the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is among us to this day; 
therefore, being a prophet, and knowing that God swore to him with an oath, out of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, to raise up the Christ, to sit on his throne, 
having foreseen, he spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, that His soul was not left to Hades, nor did His flesh see corruption. 
God raised up this Jesus, of which we are all witnesses; 
then having been exalted at the right hand of God—also having received the promise of the Holy Spirit from the Father—He poured forth this which you now see and hear; 
for David did not go up into the heavens, and he says himself: The LORD says to my Lord, || Sit at My right hand, 
Until I make Your enemies Your footstool; 
assuredly, therefore, let all the house of Israel know that God made Him both Lord and Christ—this Jesus whom you crucified.” 
And having heard, they were pricked to the heart; they also say to Peter and to the rest of the apostles, “What will we do, men, brothers?” 
And Peter said to them, “Convert, and each of you be immersed on the Name of Jesus Christ, for forgiveness of sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit, 
for the promise is to you and to your children, and to all those far off, as many as the LORD our God will call.” 
Also with many more other words he was testifying and exhorting, saying, “Be saved from this perverse generation”; 
then those, indeed, who gladly received his word were immersed, and there were added on that day, as it were, three thousand souls, 
and they were continuing steadfastly in the teaching of the apostles, and the fellowship, and the breaking of the bread, and the prayers. 
And fear came on every soul, also many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles, 
and all those believing were at the same place, and had all things common, 
and they were selling the possessions and the goods, and were parting them to all, according as anyone had need. 
Also continuing daily with one accord in the temple, also breaking bread at every house, they were partaking of food in gladness and simplicity of heart, 
praising God, and having favor with all the people, and the LORD was adding those being saved every day to the Assembly. 
