2 Samuel.
Chapter 7.
And it comes to pass, when the king sat in his house, and YHWH has given rest to him all around, from all his enemies, 
that the king says to Nathan the prophet, “Now see, I am dwelling in a house of cedars, but the Ark of God is dwelling in the midst of the curtain.” 
And Nathan says to the king, “All that is in your heart—go, do, for YHWH is with you.” 
And it comes to pass in that night, that the word of YHWH is to Nathan, saying, 
“Go, and you have said to My servant, to David, Thus said YHWH: Do you build for Me a house for My dwelling in? 
For I have not dwelt in a house even from the day of My bringing up the sons of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, and am walking up and down in a tent and in a dwelling place. 
During all the time that I have walked up and down among all the sons of Israel, have I spoken a word with one of the tribes of Israel, which I commanded to feed my people Israel, saying, Why have you not built a house of cedars for Me? 
And now, thus you say to My servant, to David, Thus said YHWH of Hosts: I have taken you from the pasture, from after the flock, to be leader over My people, over Israel; 
and I am with you wherever you have gone, and I cut off all your enemies from your presence, and have made a great name for you, as the name of the great ones who are in the earth, 
and I have appointed a place for My people, for Israel, and have planted it, and it has dwelt in its place, and it is not troubled anymore, and the sons of perverseness do not add to afflict it anymore, as in the beginning, 
even from the day that I appointed judges over My people Israel; and I have given rest to you from all your enemies, and YHWH has declared to you that YHWH makes a house for you. 
When your days are full, and you have lain with your fathers, then I have raised up your seed after you which goes out from your bowels, and have established his kingdom; 
he builds a house for My Name, and I have established the throne of his kingdom for all time. 
I am to him for a father, and he is to Me for a son; whom in his dealing perversely I have even reproved with a rod of men, and with strokes of the sons of Adam, 
and My kindness does not turn aside from him, as I turned it aside from Saul, whom I turned aside from before you, 
and your house and your kingdom are steadfast before you for all time, your throne is established for all time.” 
According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so spoke Nathan to David. 
And King David comes in and sits before YHWH, and says, “Who am I, Lord YHWH? And what is my house, that You have brought me here? 
And yet this is little in Your eyes, Lord YHWH, and You also speak concerning the house of Your servant far off; and this is the law of the man, Lord YHWH. 
And what does David add more to speak to You? And You, You have known Your servant, Lord YHWH. 
Because of Your word, and according to Your heart, You have done all this greatness, to cause Your servant to know it. 
Therefore You have been great, YHWH God, for there is none like You, and there is no God except You, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 
And who is as Your people, as Israel—one nation in the earth, whom God has gone to redeem for a people for Himself, and to make for Himself a name—and to do for Yourself the greatness—even fearful things for Your land, at the presence of Your people, whom You have redeemed for Yourself out of Egypt—among the nations and their gods? 
Indeed, You establish Your people Israel for Yourself, for a people for Yourself for all time, and You, YHWH, have been to them for God. 
And now, YHWH God, the word which You have spoken concerning Your servant, and concerning his house, establish for all time, and do as You have spoken. 
And Your Name is great for all time, saying, YHWH of Hosts is God over Israel, and the house of Your servant David is established before You, 
for You, YHWH of Hosts, God of Israel, have uncovered the ear of Your servant, saying, I build a house for you, therefore Your servant has found his heart to pray this prayer to You. 
And now, Lord YHWH, You are God Himself, and Your words are truth, and You speak this goodness to Your servant, 
and now, begin and bless the house of Your servant, to be before You for all time, for You, Lord YHWH, have spoken, and by Your blessing the house of Your servant is blessed for all time.” 
