Luke.
Chapter 24.
And on the first day of the weeks, at early dawn, they came to the tomb, carrying the spices they made ready, and certain others with them, 
and they found the stone having been rolled away from the tomb, 
and having gone in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. 
And it came to pass, while they are perplexed about this, that behold, two men stood by them in clothing—flashing with light; 
and on their having become afraid, and having inclined the face to the earth, they said to them, “Why do you seek the living with the dead? 
He is not here, but was raised; remember how He spoke to you, being yet in Galilee, 
saying, It is necessary for the Son of Man to be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, and to be crucified, and to rise again on the third day.” 
And they remembered His sayings, 
and having turned back from the tomb, told all these things to the Eleven, and to all the rest. 
And it was Mary the Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary of James, and the other women with them, who told these things to the apostles, 
and their sayings appeared before them as idle talk, and they were not believing them. 
And Peter having risen, ran to the tomb, and having stooped down he sees the linen clothes lying alone, and he went away to his own home, wondering at that having come to pass. 
And behold, two of them were going on during that day to a village, being sixty stadia distant from Jerusalem, the name of which is Emmaus, 
and they were conversing with one another about all these things that have happened. 
And it came to pass in their conversing and reasoning together, that Jesus Himself, having come near, was going on with them, 
and their eyes were restrained so as not to know Him, 
and He said to them, “What are these words that you exchange with one another, walking, and you are sad?” 
And one, whose name was Cleopas, answering, said to Him, “Are You alone visiting Jerusalem and have not known the things having come to pass in it in these days?” 
And He said to them, “What things?” And they said to Him, “The things about Jesus of Nazareth, who became a man—a prophet—powerful in deed and word, before God and all the people, 
how also the chief priests and our rulers delivered Him up to a judgment of death, and crucified Him; 
and we were hoping that it is He who is about to redeem Israel, and also with all these things, this third day is passing today since these things happened. 
And certain of our women also astonished us, coming early to the tomb, 
and having not found His body, they came, saying to have also seen an apparition of messengers who say He is alive, 
and certain of those with us went away to the tomb, and found it so, even as the women said, and they did not see Him.” 
And He said to them, “O inconsiderate and slow in heart to believe on all that the prophets spoke! 
Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things, and to enter into His glory?” 
And having begun from Moses, and from all the Prophets, He was expounding to them in all the Writings the things about Himself. 
And they came near to the village to where they were going, and He made an appearance of going on further, 
and they constrained Him, saying, “Remain with us, for it is toward evening,” and the day declined, and He went in to remain with them. 
And it came to pass, in His reclining with them, having taken the bread, He blessed, and having broken, He was giving to them, 
and their eyes were opened, and they recognized Him, and He became unseen by them. 
And they said to one another, “Was our heart not burning within us as He was speaking to us in the way, and as He was opening the Writings up to us?” 
And they, having risen up the same hour, turned back to Jerusalem, and found the Eleven gathered together, and those with them, 
saying, “The Lord was indeed raised, and was seen by Simon”; 
and they were expounding the things in the way, and how He was made known to them in the breaking of the bread, 
and as they are speaking these things, Jesus Himself stood in the midst of them, and says to them, “Peace to you”; 
and being amazed, and becoming frightened, they were thinking themselves to see a spirit. 
And He said to them, “Why are you troubled? And why do reasonings come up in your hearts? 
See My hands and My feet, that I am He; handle Me and see, because a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see Me having.” 
And having said this, He showed the hands and the feet to them, 
and while they are not believing from the joy, and wondering, He said to them, “Do you have anything here to eat?” 
And they gave to Him part of a broiled fish, and of a honeycomb, 
and having taken, He ate before them, 
and He said to them, “These are the words that I spoke to you, being yet with you, that it is necessary to be fulfilled all the things that are written in the Law of Moses, and the Prophets, and the Psalms, about Me.” 
Then He opened up their understanding to understand the Writings, 
and He said to them, “Thus it has been written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer, and to rise out of the dead on the third day, 
and conversion and forgiveness of sins is to be proclaimed in His Name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem: 
and you are witnesses of these things. 
And behold, I send the promise of My Father on you, but you—abide in the city of Jerusalem until you are clothed with power from on high.” 
And He led them forth outside—to Bethany, and having lifted up His hands He blessed them, 
and it came to pass, in His blessing them, He was parted from them, and was carried up into Heaven; 
and they, having worshiped Him, turned back to Jerusalem with great joy, 
and were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.
