Deuteronomy.
Chapter 5.
And Moses calls to all Israel and says to them, “Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the judgments which I am speaking in your ears today, and you have learned them and have observed to do them. 
Our God YHWH made a covenant with us in Horeb; 
YHWH has not made this covenant with our fathers, but with us, we—these here—all of us living today. 
YHWH has spoken with you face to face on the mountain, out of the midst of the fire; 
I am standing between YHWH and you, at that time, to declare the word of YHWH to you, for you have been afraid from the presence of the fire, and you have not gone up into the mountain; for He says: 
I, YHWH, am your God who has brought you out from the land of Egypt, from a house of servants. 
You have no other gods in My presence. 
You do not make a carved image for yourself, any likeness which is in the heavens above, or which is in the earth beneath, or which is in the waters under the earth. 
You do not bow yourself to them, nor serve them: for I, your God YHWH, am a zealous God, charging iniquity of fathers on sons, and on a third and on a fourth generation of those hating Me, 
and doing kindness to thousands, of those loving Me and of those keeping My commands. 
You do not take up the Name of your God YHWH for a vain thing, for YHWH does not acquit him who takes up His Name for a vain thing. 
Observe the Sabbath day to sanctify it, as your God YHWH has commanded you; 
six days you labor and have done all your work, 
and the seventh day is a Sabbath to your God YHWH; you do not do any work, you, and your son, and your daughter, and your manservant, and your handmaid, and your ox, and your donkey, and all your livestock, and your sojourner who is within your gates, so that your manservant and your handmaid rest like yourself. 
And you have remembered that you have been a servant in the land of Egypt, and your God YHWH brings you out from there by a strong hand and by an outstretched arm; therefore your God YHWH has commanded you to keep the Sabbath day. 
Honor your father and your mother, as your God YHWH has commanded you, so that your days are prolonged, and so that it is well with you on the ground which your God YHWH is giving to you. 
You do not murder. 
You do not commit adultery. 
You do not steal. 
You do not answer with a false testimony against your neighbor. 
You do not desire your neighbor’s wife, nor do you covet your neighbor’s house, his field, and his manservant, and his handmaid, his ox, and his donkey, and anything which is your neighbor’s. 
YHWH has spoken these words to all your assembly in the mountain, out of the midst of the fire, and of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great voice; and He has not added; and He writes them on two tablets of stone and gives them to me. 
And it comes to pass, as you hear the voice out of the midst of the darkness and of the mountain burning with fire, that you come near to me, all the heads of your tribes and your elderly, 
and say, Behold, our God YHWH has showed us His glory and His greatness; and we have heard His voice out of the midst of the fire; this day we have seen that God speaks with man—and he has lived. 
And now, why do we die? For this great fire consumes us if we add to hear the voice of our God YHWH anymore—then we have died. 
For who of all flesh is he who has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of the fire like us, and lives? 
Draw near and hear all that which our God YHWH says, and you, you speak to us all that which our God YHWH speaks to you, and we have listened and done it. 
And YHWH hears the voice of your words in your speaking to me, and YHWH says to me, I have heard the voice of the words of this people which they have spoken to you; they have done well in all that they have spoken. 
O that their heart had been thus to them, to fear Me and to keep My commands for all the days, that it may be well with them and with their sons for all time! 
Go, say to them, Return for yourselves, to your tents; 
and you, stand here with Me, and let Me speak to you all the command, and the statutes, and the judgments which you teach them, and they have done them in the land which I am giving to them to possess it. 
And you have observed to do as your God YHWH has commanded you, you do not turn aside to the right or left; 
in all the way which your God YHWH has commanded you—walk, so that you live, and it is well with you, and you have prolonged days in the land which you possess.” 
