Jeremiah.
Chapter 37.
And King Zedekiah son of Josiah reigns instead of Coniah son of Jehoiakim whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had caused to reign in the land of Judah, 
and he has not listened—he, and his servants, and the people of the land—to the words of YHWH that He spoke by the hand of Jeremiah the prophet. 
And Zedekiah the king sends Jehucal son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah son of Maaseiah the priest, to Jeremiah the prophet, saying, “Pray, we implore you, for us to our God YHWH.” 
And Jeremiah is coming in and going out in the midst of the people (and they have not put him in the prison-house), 
and the force of Pharaoh has come out of Egypt, and the Chaldeans who are laying siege against Jerusalem hear their report, and go up from off Jerusalem. 
And there is a word of YHWH to Jeremiah the prophet, saying, 
“Thus said YHWH, God of Israel: Thus you say to the king of Judah who is sending you to Me, to seek Me: Behold, the force of Pharaoh that is coming out to you for help has turned back to its land, to Egypt, 
and the Chaldeans have turned back and fought against this city, and captured it, and burned it with fire. 
Thus said YHWH: Do not lift up your souls, saying, The Chaldeans surely go from off us, for they do not go; 
for though you had struck all the force of the Chaldeans who are fighting with you, and there were left of them wounded men—they rise, each in his tent, and have burned this city with fire.” 
And it has come to pass, in the going up of the force of the Chaldeans from off Jerusalem, because of the force of Pharaoh, 
that Jeremiah goes out from Jerusalem to go to the land of Benjamin, to receive a portion there in the midst of the people. 
And it comes to pass, he is at the Gate of Benjamin, and there is a master of the ward, and his name is Irijah son of Shelemiah, son of Hananiah; and he catches Jeremiah the prophet, saying, “You are defecting to the Chaldeans!” 
And Jeremiah says, “Falsehood! I am not defecting to the Chaldeans”; and he has not listened to him, and Irijah lays hold on Jeremiah, and brings him to the heads, 
and the heads are angry against Jeremiah, and have struck him, and put him in the prison-house—the house of Jonathan the scribe, for they had made it for a prison-house. 
When Jeremiah has entered into the house of the dungeon, and to the cells, then Jeremiah dwells there many days, 
and King Zedekiah sends, and takes him, and the king asks him in his house in secret, and says, “Is there a word from YHWH?” And Jeremiah says, “There is,” and he says, “You are given into the hand of the king of Babylon.” 
And Jeremiah says to King Zedekiah, “What have I sinned against you, and against your servants, and against this people, that you have put me into a prison-house? 
And where are your prophets who prophesied to you, saying, The king of Babylon does not come in against you, and against this land? 
And now, please listen, O my lord the king; please let my supplication fall before you, and do not cause me to return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, that I do not die there.” 
And King Zedekiah commands, and they commit Jeremiah into the court of the prison, also to give a cake of bread to him daily from the bakers’ street, until the consumption of all the bread of the city, and Jeremiah dwells in the court of the prison. 
