2 Kings.
Chapter 14.
In the second year of Joash son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel, Amaziah son of Joash, king of Judah, has reigned; 
he was a son of twenty-five years in his reigning, and he has reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother is Jehoaddan of Jerusalem, 
and he does that which is right in the eyes of YHWH, only not like his father David; he has done according to all that his father Joash did, 
only, the high places have not been removed—the people are still sacrificing and making incense in high places. 
And it comes to pass, when the kingdom has been strong in his hand, that he strikes his servants, those striking his father the king, 
and the sons of those striking him he has not put to death, as it is written in the Scroll of the Law of Moses that YHWH commanded, saying, “Fathers are not put to death for sons, and sons are not put to death for fathers, but each is put to death for his own sin.” 
He has struck ten thousand of Edom in the Valley of Salt, and seized Selah in war, and one calls its name Joktheel to this day, 
then Amaziah has sent messengers to Jehoash son of Jehoahaz, son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, “Come, we look one another in the face.” 
And Jehoash king of Israel sends to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, “The thorn that is in Lebanon has sent to the cedar that is in Lebanon, saying, Give your daughter to my son for a wife; and a beast of the field that is in Lebanon passes by, and treads down the thorn. 
You have certainly struck Edom, and your heart has lifted you up; be honored, and abide in your house; and why do you stir yourself up in evil, that you have fallen, you and Judah with you?” 
And Amaziah has not listened, and Jehoash king of Israel goes up, and they look one another in the face, he and Amaziah king of Judah, in Beth-Shemesh, that is Judah’s, 
and Judah is struck before Israel, and they each flee to his tent. 
And Jehoash king of Israel caught Amaziah king of Judah, son of Jehoash, son of Ahaziah, in Beth-Shemesh, and they come to Jerusalem, and he bursts through the wall of Jerusalem, at the Gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate, four hundred cubits, 
and has taken all the gold and the silver, and all the vessels that are found in the house of YHWH, and in the treasures of the house of the king, and the sons of the pledges, and turns back to Samaria. 
And the rest of the matters of Jehoash that he did, and his might, and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 
And Jehoash lies with his fathers, and is buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel, and his son Jeroboam reigns in his stead. 
And Amaziah son of Joash, king of Judah, lives after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel, fifteen years, 
and the rest of the matters of Amaziah, are they not written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? 
And they make a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he flees to Lachish, and they send after him to Lachish, and put him to death there, 
and lift him up on the horses, and he is buried in Jerusalem with his fathers in the City of David. 
And all the people of Judah take Azariah, and he is a son of sixteen years, and cause him to reign instead of his father Amaziah; 
he has built Elath, and brings it back to Judah, after the lying of the king with his fathers. 
In the fifteenth year of Amaziah son of Joash, king of Judah, Jeroboam son of Joash, king of Israel, has reigned in Samaria, forty-one years, 
and he does evil in the eyes of YHWH; he has not turned aside from all the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat that he caused Israel to sin. 
He has brought back the border of Israel, from the entering in of Hamath to the sea of the desert, according to the word of YHWH, God of Israel, that He spoke by the hand of His servant Jonah son of Amittai the prophet, who is of Gath-Hepher, 
for YHWH has seen the very bitter affliction of Israel, and there is none restrained, and there is none left, and there is no helper for Israel; 
and YHWH has not spoken to blot out the name of Israel from under the heavens, and saves them by the hand of Jeroboam son of Joash. 
And the rest of the matters of Jeroboam, and all that he did, and his might with which he fought, and with which he brought back Damascus, and Hamath of Judah, into Israel, are they not written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 
And Jeroboam lies with his fathers, with the kings of Israel, and his son Zechariah reigns in his stead. 
