1 Chronicles.
Chapter 23.
And David was old and satisfied with days, and he causes his son Solomon to reign over Israel, 
and gathers all the heads of Israel, and the priests, and the Levites; 
and the Levites are numbered from a son of thirty years and upward, and their number, for their counted heads, is of thirty-eight thousand mighty men. 
Of these, twenty-four thousand are to preside over the work of the house of YHWH, and six thousand officers and judges, 
and four thousand gatekeepers, and four thousand giving praise to YHWH, “with instruments that I made for praising,” says David. 
And David distributes them into divisions of the sons of Levi—of Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
Of the Gershonite: Laadan and Shimei. 
Sons of Laadan: the head is Jehiel, and Zetham, and Joel—three. 
Sons of Shimei: Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran—three; these are heads of the fathers of Laadan. 
And sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and Beriah; these are the four sons of Shimei. 
And Jahath is the head, and Zizah the second, and Jeush and Beriah have not multiplied sons, and they become the house of a father by one numbering. 
Sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel—four. 
Sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses; and Aaron is separated for his sanctifying the Holy of Holies, he and his sons, for all time, to make incense before YHWH, to serve Him, and to bless in His Name for all time. 
As for Moses, the man of God, his sons are called after the tribe of Levi. 
Sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer. 
Sons of Gershom: Shebuel the head. 
And sons of Eliezer are Rehabiah the head, and Eliezer had no other sons, and the sons of Rehabiah have multiplied exceedingly. 
Sons of Izhar: Shelomith the head. 
Sons of Hebron: Jeriah the head, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 
Sons of Uzziel: Micah the head, and Ishshiah the second. 
Sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish. 
And Eleazar dies, and he had no sons, but daughters, and their brothers, sons of Kish, take them. 
Sons of Mushi: Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth—three. 
These are sons of Levi, by the house of their fathers, heads of the fathers, by their appointments, in the number of names, by their counted heads, doing the work for the service of the house of YHWH, from a son of twenty years and upward, 
for David said, “YHWH, God of Israel, has given rest to His people, and He dwells in Jerusalem for all time”; 
and also of the Levites, “None are to carry the Dwelling Place and all its vessels for its service”; 
for by the last words of David they took the number of the sons of Levi from a son of twenty years and upward, 
for their station is at the side of the sons of Aaron, for the service of the house of YHWH, over the courts, and over the chambers, and over the cleansing of every holy thing, and the work of the service of the house of God, 
and for the bread of the arrangement, and for fine flour for present, and for the thin unleavened cakes, and for the work of the pan, and for that which is stirred, and for all liquid measure and solid measure; 
and to stand, morning by morning, to give thanks, and to give praise to YHWH, and so at evening; 
and for all the burnt-offerings—burnt-offerings to YHWH for Sabbaths, for new moons, and for appointed times, by number, according to the ordinance on them continually, before YHWH. 
And they have kept the charge of the Tent of Meeting, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of their brothers, the sons of Aaron, for the service of the house of YHWH. 
