Exodus.
Chapter 6.
And YHWH says to Moses, “Now you see that which I do to Pharaoh, for with a strong hand he sends them away, indeed, with a strong hand he casts them out of his land.” 
And God speaks to Moses and says to him, “I am YHWH, 
and I appear to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, as God Almighty; as for My Name YHWH, I have not been known to them; 
and I have also established My covenant with them, to give the land of Canaan to them, the land of their sojournings, wherein they have sojourned; 
and I have also heard the groaning of the sons of Israel, whom the Egyptians are causing to serve, and I remember My covenant. 
Therefore say to the sons of Israel: I am YHWH, and I have brought you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and have delivered you from their service, and have redeemed you by an outstretched arm, and by great judgments, 
and have taken you to Myself for a people, and I have been to you for God, and you have known that I am your God YHWH, who is bringing you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians; 
and I have brought you to the land which I have lifted up My hand to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, and have given it to you—a possession; I am YHWH.” 
And Moses speaks so to the sons of Israel, and they did not listen to Moses, for anguish of spirit, and for harsh service. 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Go in, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he sends the sons of Israel out of his land”; 
and Moses speaks before YHWH, saying, “Behold, the sons of Israel have not listened to me, and how does Pharaoh hear me, and I of uncircumcised lips?” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses and to Aaron, and charges them for the sons of Israel, and for Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt. 
These are heads of the house of their fathers. Sons of Reuben firstborn of Israel: Enoch, and Phallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these are families of Reuben. 
And sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul, son of the Canaanite; these are families of Simeon. 
And these are the names of the sons of Levi, as to their births: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi are one hundred and thirty-seven years. 
The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimi, as to their families. 
And the sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kohath are one hundred and thirty-three years. 
And the sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; these are families of Levi, as to their births. 
And Amram takes his aunt Jochebed to himself for a wife, and she bears Aaron and Moses to him; and the years of the life of Amram are one hundred and thirty-seven years. 
And sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri. 
And sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri. 
And Aaron takes Elisheba daughter of Amminadab, sister of Naashon, to himself for a wife, and she bears to him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
And sons of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are families of the Korahite. 
And Eleazar, Aaron’s son, has taken to himself one of the daughters of Putiel for a wife for himself, and she bears Phinehas to him; these are heads of the fathers of the Levites, as to their families. 
This is Aaron—and Moses—to whom YHWH said, “Bring out the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt, by their hosts”; 
these are they who are speaking to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the sons of Israel from Egypt, this is Moses—and Aaron. 
And it comes to pass in the day of YHWH’s speaking to Moses in the land of Egypt, 
that YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, “I am YHWH, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I am speaking to you.” 
And Moses says before YHWH, “Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how does Pharaoh listen to me?” 
