Leviticus.
Chapter 9.
And it comes to pass on the eighth day, Moses has called for Aaron and for his sons, and for the elderly of Israel, 
and he says to Aaron, “Take a calf for yourself, a son of the herd, for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering, perfect ones, and bring them near before YHWH. 
And you speak to the sons of Israel, saying, Take a kid of the goats for a sin-offering, and a calf, and a lamb, sons of a year, perfect ones, for a burnt-offering, 
and a bullock and a ram for peace-offerings, to sacrifice before YHWH, and a present mixed with oil; for today YHWH has appeared to you.” 
And they take that which Moses has commanded to the front of the Tent of Meeting, and all the congregation draws near and stands before YHWH; 
and Moses says, “This is the thing which YHWH has commanded; do it, and the glory of YHWH appears to you.” 
And Moses says to Aaron, “Draw near to the altar, and make your sin-offering, and your burnt-offering, and make atonement for yourself, and for the people, and make the offering of the people, and make atonement for them, as YHWH has commanded.” 
And Aaron draws near to the altar, and slaughters the calf of the sin-offering, which is for himself; 
and the sons of Aaron bring the blood near to him, and he dips his finger in the blood, and puts it on the horns of the altar, and he has poured out the blood at the foundation of the altar; 
and the fat, and the kidneys, and the redundance of the liver, of the sin-offering, he has made incense on the altar, as YHWH has commanded Moses; 
and he has burned the flesh and the skin with fire, at the outside of the camp. 
And he slaughters the burnt-offering, and the sons of Aaron have presented the blood to him, and he sprinkles it around the altar; 
and they have presented the burnt-offering to him, by its pieces, and the head, and he makes incense on the altar; 
and he washes the innards and the legs, and makes incense for the burnt-offering on the altar. 
And he brings the offering of the people near, and takes the goat of the sin-offering which is for the people, and slaughters it, and makes it a sin-offering, like the first; 
and he brings the burnt-offering near, and makes it, according to the ordinance; 
and he brings the present near, and fills his palm with it, and makes incense on the altar, apart from the burnt-offering of the morning. 
And he slaughters the bullock and the ram, a sacrifice of the peace-offerings, which are for the people, and sons of Aaron present the blood to him (and he sprinkles it around the altar), 
and the fat of the bullock, and of the ram, the fat tail, and the covering of the innards, and the kidneys, and the redundance on the liver, 
and they set the fat on the breasts, and he makes incense with the fat on the altar; 
and Aaron has waved the breasts and the right leg as a wave-offering before YHWH, as He has commanded Moses. 
And Aaron lifts up his hand toward the people, and blesses them, and comes down from making the sin-offering, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings. 
And Moses goes in—Aaron also—to the Tent of Meeting, and they come out, and bless the people, and the glory of YHWH appears to all the people; 
and fire comes out from before YHWH, and consumes the burnt-offering and the fat on the altar; and all the people see, and cry aloud, and fall on their faces. 
