Nehemiah.
Chapter 7.
And it comes to pass, when the wall has been built, that I set up the doors, and the gatekeepers are appointed, and the singers, and the Levites, 
and I charge my brother Hanani, and Hananiah head of the palace, concerning Jerusalem—for he is as a man of truth, and fearing God above many— 
and I say to them, “Do not let the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the heat of the sun, and while they are standing by let them shut the doors, and fasten, and appoint guards of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, each at his watch, and each in front of his house.” 
And the city is broad on both sides, and great, and the people are few in its midst, and there are no houses built; 
and my God puts it to my heart, and I gather the nobles, and the prefects, and the people, for the genealogy, and I find a scroll of the genealogy of those coming up at the beginning, and I find written in it: 
These are sons of the province, those coming up of the captives of the expulsion that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon removed—and they return to Jerusalem and to Judah, each to his city— 
who are coming in with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel: 
sons of Parosh, two thousand one hundred and seventy-two; 
sons of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two; 
sons of Arah, six hundred fifty-two; 
sons of Pahath-Moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen; 
sons of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four; 
sons of Zattu, eight hundred forty-five; 
sons of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty; 
sons of Binnui, six hundred forty-eight; 
sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty-eight; 
sons of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty-two; 
sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-seven; 
sons of Bigvai, two thousand sixty-seven; 
sons of Adin, six hundred fifty-five; 
sons of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety-eight; 
sons of Hashum, three hundred twenty-eight; 
sons of Bezai, three hundred twenty-four; 
sons of Hariph, one hundred and twelve; 
sons of Gibeon, ninety-five; 
men of Beth-Lehem and Netophah, one hundred eighty-eight; 
men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight; 
men of Beth-Azmaveth, forty-two; 
men of Kirjath-Jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three; 
men of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty-one; 
men of Michmas, one hundred and twenty-two; 
men of Bethel and Ai, one hundred twenty-three; 
men of the other Nebo, fifty-two; 
sons of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four; 
sons of Harim, three hundred and twenty; 
sons of Jericho, three hundred forty-five; 
sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred and twenty-one; 
sons of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty. 
The priests: sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three; 
sons of Immer, one thousand fifty-two; 
sons of Pashur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven; 
sons of Harim, one thousand and seventeen. 
The Levites: sons of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, of sons of Hodevah, seventy-four. 
The singers: sons of Asaph, one hundred forty-eight. 
The gatekeepers: sons of Shallum, sons of Ater, sons of Talmon, sons of Akkub, sons of Hatita, sons of Shobai: one hundred thirty-eight. 
The Nethinim: sons of Ziha, sons of Hasupha, sons of Tabbaoth, 
sons of Keros, sons of Sia, sons of Padon, 
sons of Lebanah, sons of Hagaba, sons of Shalmai, 
sons of Hanan, sons of Giddel, sons of Gahar, 
sons of Reaiah, sons of Rezin, sons of Nekoda, 
sons of Gazzam, sons of Uzza, sons of Phaseah, 
sons of Bezai, sons of Meunim, sons of Nephishesim, 
sons of Bakbuk, sons of Hakupha, sons of Harhur, 
sons of Bazlith, sons of Mehida, sons of Harsha, 
sons of Barkos, sons of Sisera, sons of Tamah, 
sons of Neziah, sons of Hatipha. 
Sons of the servants of Solomon: sons of Sotai, sons of Sophereth, sons of Perida, 
sons of Jaala, sons of Darkon, sons of Giddel, 
sons of Shephatiah, sons of Hattil, sons of Pochereth of Zebaim, sons of Amon. 
All the Nethinim and the sons of the servants of Solomon are three hundred ninety-two. 
And these are those coming up from Tel-Melah, Tel-Harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer—and they have not been able to declare the house of their fathers, and their seed, whether they are of Israel— 
sons of Delaiah, sons of Tobiah, sons of Nekoda, six hundred forty-two. 
And of the priests: sons of Habaiah, sons of Koz, sons of Barzillai (who has taken a wife from the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and is called by their name). 
These have sought their register among those reckoning themselves by genealogy, and it has not been found, and they are redeemed from the priesthood, 
and the Tirshatha says to them that they do not eat of the most holy things until the standing up of the priest with the Lights and Perfections. 
All the assembly together is forty-two thousand three hundred and sixty, 
apart from their servants and their handmaids—these are seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven; and of them are male and female singers, two hundred forty-five. 
Their horses are seven hundred thirty-six; their mules, two hundred and forty-five; 
camels, four hundred thirty-five; donkeys, six thousand seven hundred and twenty. 
And from the extremity of the heads of the fathers they have given to the work; the Tirshatha has given to the treasure, one thousand drams of gold, fifty bowls, five hundred and thirty priests’ coats. 
And of the heads of the fathers they have given to the treasure of the work, twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pounds of silver. 
And that which the rest of the people have given is twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand pounds of silver, and sixty-seven priests’ coats. 
And they dwell—the priests, and the Levites, and the gatekeepers, and the singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinim, and all Israel—in their cities, and the seventh month comes, and the sons of Israel are in their cities. 
