Numbers.
Chapter 2.
And YHWH speaks to Moses and to Aaron, saying, 
“The sons of Israel encamp, each by his standard, with ensigns of the house of their fathers; they encamp around, from in sight of the Tent of Meeting.” 
And those encamping eastward toward the sun-rising are of the standard of the camp of Judah, by their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Judah is Nahshon, son of Amminadab; 
and his host, and their numbered ones, are seventy-four thousand and six hundred. 
And those encamping by him are of the tribe of Issachar; and the prince of the sons of Issachar is Nethaneel son of Zuar; 
and his host, and its numbered ones, are fifty-four thousand and four hundred. 
The tribe of Zebulun is with them; and the prince of the sons of Zebulun is Eliab son of Helon; 
and his host, and its numbered ones, are fifty-seven thousand and four hundred. 
All those numbered of the camp of Judah are one hundred thousand and eighty thousand and six thousand and four hundred, by their hosts; they journey first. 
The standard of the camp of Reuben is southward, by their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Reuben is Elizur son of Shedeur; 
and his host, and its numbered ones, are forty-six thousand and five hundred. 
And those encamping by him are of the tribe of Simeon; and the prince of the sons of Simeon is Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai; 
and his host, and their numbered ones, are fifty-nine thousand and three hundred. 
And the tribe of Gad is with him; and the prince of the sons of Gad is Eliasaph son of Reuel; 
and his host, and their numbered ones, are forty-five thousand and six hundred and fifty. 
All those numbered of the camp of Reuben are one hundred thousand and fifty-one thousand and four hundred and fifty, by their hosts; and they journey second. 
And the Tent of Meeting has journeyed with the camp of the Levites in the middle of the camps; as they encamp so they journey, each at his station by their standards. 
The standard of the camp of Ephraim, by their hosts, is westward; and the prince of the sons of Ephraim is Elishama son of Ammihud; 
and his host, and their numbered ones, are forty thousand and five hundred. 
And by him is the tribe of Manasseh; and the prince of the sons of Manasseh is Gamaliel son of Pedahzur; 
and his host, and their numbered ones, are thirty-two thousand and two hundred. 
And the tribe of Benjamin is with them; and the prince of the sons of Benjamin is Abidan son of Gideoni; 
and his host, and their numbered ones, are thirty-five thousand and four hundred. 
All those numbered of the camp of Ephraim are one hundred thousand and eight thousand and one hundred, by their hosts; and they journey third. 
The standard of the camp of Dan is northward, by their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Dan is Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai; 
and his host, and their numbered ones, are sixty-two thousand and seven hundred. 
And those encamping by him are of the tribe of Asher; and the prince of the sons of Asher is Pagiel son of Ocran; 
and his host, and their numbered ones, are forty-one thousand and five hundred. 
And the tribe of Naphtali is with them; and the prince of the sons of Naphtali is Ahira son of Enan; 
and his host, and their numbered ones, are fifty-three thousand and four hundred. 
All those numbered of the camp of Dan are one hundred thousand and fifty-seven thousand and six hundred; they journey at the rear by their standards. 
These are those numbered of the sons of Israel by the house of their fathers; all those numbered of the camps by their hosts are six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty. 
And the Levites have not numbered themselves in the midst of the sons of Israel, as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
And the sons of Israel do according to all that YHWH has commanded Moses; so they have encamped by their standards, and so they have journeyed, each by his families, by the house of his fathers. 
