1 Chronicles.
Chapter 5.
As for sons of Reuben, firstborn of Israel—for he is the firstborn, and on account of his profaning the bed of his father his birthright has been given to the sons of Joseph son of Israel, and he is not to be reckoned by genealogy for the birthright, 
for Judah has been mighty over his brother, and for leader above him, and the birthright is to Joseph— 
sons of Reuben, firstborn of Israel: Enoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. 
Sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son, 
Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Ba‘al his son, 
Beerah his son, whom Tilgath-Pilneser king of Asshur removed; he is prince of the Reubenite. 
And his brothers, by their families, in the genealogy of their generations, are heads: Jeiel, and Zechariah, 
and Bela son of Azaz, son of Shema, son of Joel—he is dwelling in Aroer, even to Nebo and Ba‘al-Meon; 
and he dwelt at the east even to the entering in of the wilderness, even from the Euphrates River, for their livestock were multiplied in the land of Gilead. 
And they have made war with the Hagarites in the days of Saul, who fall by their hand, and they dwell in their tents over all the face of the east of Gilead. 
And the sons of Gad have dwelt opposite them in the land of Bashan to Salcah: 
Joel the head, and Shapham the second, and Jaanai and Shaphat in Bashan; 
and their brothers of the house of their fathers are Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jachan, and Zia, and Heber—seven. 
These are sons of Abihail son of Huri, son of Jaroah, son of Gilead, son of Michael, son of Jeshishai, son of Jahdo, son of Buz; 
Ahi son of Abdiel, son of Guni, is head of the house of their fathers; 
and they dwell in Gilead in Bashan, and in her small towns, and in all outskirts of Sharon, on their outskirts; 
all of them reckoned themselves by genealogy in the days of Jotham king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel. 
Sons of Reuben, and the Gadite, and the half of the tribe of Manasseh, of sons of valor, men carrying shield and sword, and treading bow, and taught in battle, are forty-four thousand and seven hundred and sixty, going out to the host. 
And they make war with the Hagarites, and Jetur, and Naphish, and Nodab, 
and they are helped against them, and the Hagarites are given into their hand, and all who are with them, for they cried to God in battle, and He received their plea, because they trusted in Him. 
And they take their livestock captive—fifty thousand of their camels, and two hundred and fifty thousand sheep, and two thousand donkeys, and one hundred thousand of mankind; 
for many have fallen pierced, for the battle is of God; and they dwell in their stead until the expulsion. 
And the sons of the half of the tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land, from Bashan to Ba‘al-Hermon, and Senir, and Mount Hermon; they have multiplied. 
And these are heads of the house of their fathers: even Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, men mighty in valor, men of renown, heads of the house of their fathers. 
And they trespass against the God of their fathers, and go whoring after the gods of the peoples of the land whom God destroyed from their presence; 
and the God of Israel stirs up the spirit of Pul king of Asshur, and the spirit of Tilgath-Pilneser king of Asshur, and he removes them—even the Reubenite, and the Gadite, and the half of the tribe of Manasseh—and brings them to Halah, and Habor, and Hara, and the River of Gozan to this day. 
