The First Book of the Chronicles.
Chapter 1.
Adam, Seth, Enosh, 
Kenan, Mahalaleel, Jered, 
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech, 
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
Sons of Japheth: Gomer and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. 
And sons of Gomer: Ashchenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah. 
And sons of Javan: Elisha, and Tarshishah, Kittim, and Dodanim. 
Sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. 
And sons of Cush: Seba and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raamah, and Sabtecka. And sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan. 
And Cush begot Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the land. 
And Mizraim begot the Ludim, and the Anamim, and the Lehabim, and the Naphtuhim, 
and the Pathrusim, and the Casluhim (from whom the Philistim came out), and the Caphtorim. 
And Canaan begot Sidon his firstborn, and Heth, 
and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite, 
and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 
and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. 
Sons of Shem: Elam and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech. 
And Arphaxad begot Shelah, and Shelah begot Eber. 
And two sons have been born to Eber, the name of the first is Peleg, for in his days the earth has been divided, and the name of his brother is Joktan. 
And Joktan begot Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah, 
and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
and Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba, 
and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab; all these are sons of Joktan. 
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah, 
Eber, Peleg, Reu, 
Serug, Nahor, Terah, 
Abram—he is Abraham. 
Sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael. 
These are their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael was Nebaioth, then Kedar, and Adheel, and Mibsam, 
Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema, 
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedema. These are sons of Ishmael. 
And sons of Keturah, Abraham’s concubine: she bore Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan. 
And sons of Midian: Ephah and Epher, and Enoch, and Abida, and Eldaah; all these are sons of Keturah. 
And Abraham begets Isaac. Sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel. 
Sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. 
Sons of Eliphaz: Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek. 
Sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. 
And sons of Seir: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezar, and Dishan. 
And sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam, and sister of Lotan is Timna. 
Sons of Shobal: Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And sons of Zideon: Aiah and Anah. 
The sons of Anah: Dishon. And sons of Dishon: Amram, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 
Sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zavan, Jakan. Sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran. 
And these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before the reigning of a king of the sons of Israel: Bela son of Beor, and the name of his city is Dinhabah. 
And Bela dies, and Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrali reigns in his stead; 
and Jobab dies, and Husham from the land of the Temanite reigns in his stead; 
and Husham dies, and Hadad son of Bedad reigns in his stead (who strikes Midian in the field of Moab) and the name of his city is Avith; 
and Hadad dies, and Samlah from Masrekah reigns in his stead; 
and Samlah dies, and Shaul from Rehoboth of the River reigns in his stead; 
and Shaul dies, and Ba‘al-Hanan son of Achbor reigns in his stead; 
and Ba‘al-Hanan dies, and Hadad reigns in his stead, and the name of his city is Pai, and the name of his wife is Mehetabel daughter of Matred, daughter of Me-Zahab; Hadad also dies. 
And chiefs of Edom are: Chief Timnah, Chief Aliah, Chief Jetheth, 
Chief Aholibamah, Chief Elah, Chief Pinon, 
Chief Kenaz, Chief Teman, Chief Mibzar, 
Chief Magdiel, Chief Iram. These are chiefs of Edom. 
