Numbers.
Chapter 10.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Make two trumpets of silver for yourself; you make them of beaten work, and they have been for you for the convocation of the congregation, and for the journeying of the camps; 
and they have blown with them, and all the congregation has assembled to you at the opening of the Tent of Meeting. 
And if they blow with one, then the princes, heads of the thousands of Israel, have assembled to you; 
and you have blown—a shout, and the camps which are encamping eastward have journeyed. 
And you have blown—a second shout, and the camps which are encamping southward have journeyed; they blow a shout for their journeys. 
And in the assembling of the assembly you blow, and do not shout; 
and sons of Aaron, the priests, blow with the trumpets; and they have been for a continuous statute to you throughout your generations. 
And when you go into battle in your land against the adversary who is distressing you, then you have shouted with the trumpets, and you have been remembered before your God YHWH, and you have been saved from your enemies. 
And in the day of your gladness, and in your appointed times, and in the beginnings of your months, you have also blown with the trumpets over your burnt-offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace-offerings, and they have been for a memorial to you before your God; I am your God YHWH.” 
And it comes to pass, in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth of the month, the cloud has gone up from off the Dwelling Place of the Testimony, 
and the sons of Israel journey in their journeys from the wilderness of Sinai, and the cloud dwells in the wilderness of Paran; 
and they journey at first by the command of YHWH in the hand of Moses. 
And the standard of the camp of the sons of Judah journeys in the first place, by their hosts, and over its host is Nahshon son of Amminadab. 
And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Issachar is Nathaneel son of Zuar. 
And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun is Eliab son of Helon. 
And the Dwelling Place has been taken down, and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari have journeyed, carrying the Dwelling Place. 
And the standard of the camp of Reuben has journeyed, by their hosts, and over its host is Elizur son of Shedeur. 
And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Simeon is Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai. 
And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Gad is Eliasaph son of Deuel. 
And the Kohathites have journeyed, carrying the Dwelling Place, and the others have raised up the Dwelling Place until their coming in. 
And the standard of the camp of the sons of Ephraim has journeyed, by their hosts, and over its host is Elishama son of Ammihud. 
And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh is Gamalial son of Pedahzur. 
And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin is Abidan son of Gideoni. 
And the standard of the camp of the sons of Dan has journeyed (rearward to all the camps), by their hosts, and over its host is Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai. 
And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Asher is Pagiel son of Ocran. 
And over the host of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali is Ahira son of Enan. 
These are the journeys of the sons of Israel by their hosts when they journey. 
And Moses says to Hobab son of Raguel the Midianite, father-in-law of Moses, “We are journeying to the place of which YHWH has said, I give it to you; go with us, and we have done good to you, for YHWH has spoken good concerning Israel.” 
And he says to him, “I do not go; but I go to my land and to my family.” 
And he says, “Please do not forsake us, because you have known our encamping in the wilderness, and you have been to us for eyes; 
and it has come to pass, when you go with us—indeed, it has come to pass—that good which YHWH does kindly with us, we have done it kindly to you.” 
And they journey from the mountain of YHWH a journey of three days; and the Ark of the Covenant of YHWH is journeying before them for the journey of three days, to spy out a resting place for them; 
and the cloud of YHWH is on them by day, in their journeying from the camp. 
And it comes to pass in the journeying of the Ark, that Moses says, “Rise, O YHWH, and Your enemies are scattered, and those hating You flee from Your presence.” 
And in its resting he says, “Return, O YHWH, to the myriads, the thousands of Israel.” 
