Matthew.
Chapter 6.
“Take heed not to do your kindness before men, to be seen by them, and if not—you have no reward from your Father who is in the heavens; 
whenever, therefore, you may do kindness, you may not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do, in the synagogues, and in the streets, that they may have glory from men; truly I say to you, they have their reward! 
But you, doing kindness, do not let your left hand know what your right hand does, 
that your kindness may be in secret, and your Father who is seeing in secret will reward you Himself. 
And when you may pray, you will not be as the hypocrites, because they cherish to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the broad places, that they may be seen of men; truly I say to you that they have their reward. 
But you, when you may pray, go into your chamber, and having shut your door, pray to your Father who is in secret, and your Father who is seeing in secret will reward you. 
And—praying—you may not use vain repetitions like the nations, for they think that in their speaking much they will be heard, 
therefore do not be like them, for your Father knows those things that you have need of before your asking Him; 
therefore pray thus: Our Father who is in the heavens, hallowed be Your Name. 
Your kingdom come, Your will come to pass, as in Heaven also on the earth. 
Give us today our appointed bread. 
And forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our debtors. 
And may You not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one, because Yours is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory—for all ages. Amen. 
For if you may forgive men their trespasses He also will forgive you—your Father who is in the heavens; 
but if you may not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. 
And when you may fast, do not be as the hypocrites, of sour countenances, for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear to men fasting; truly I say to you that they have their reward. 
But you, fasting, anoint your head, and wash your face, 
that you may not appear to men fasting, but to your Father who is in secret, and your Father, who is seeing in secret, will reward you. 
Do not treasure up to yourselves treasures on the earth, where moth and rust disfigure, and where thieves break through and steal, 
but treasure up to yourselves treasures in Heaven, where neither moth nor rust disfigure, and where thieves do not break through nor steal, 
for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. 
The lamp of the body is the eye, if, therefore, your eye may be perfect, all your body will be enlightened, 
but if your eye may be evil, all your body will be dark; if, therefore, the light that is in you is darkness—the darkness, how great! 
None is able to serve two lords, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will hold to the one, and despise the other; you are not able to serve God and wealth. 
Because of this I say to you, do not be anxious for your life, what you may eat, and what you may drink, nor for your body, what you may put on. Is not life more than nourishment, and the body than clothing? 
Look to the birds of the sky, for they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather into storehouses, and your heavenly Father nourishes them; are you not much better than they? 
And who of you, being anxious, is able to add to his age one cubit? 
And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider well the lilies of the field; how do they grow? They do not labor, nor do they spin; 
and I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory was clothed as one of these. 
And if the herb of the field, that today is, and tomorrow is cast into the furnace, God so clothes—not much more you, O you of little faith? 
Therefore you may not be anxious, saying, What may we eat? Or, What may we drink? Or, With what may we be clothed? 
For the nations seek for all these, for your heavenly Father knows that you have need of all these; 
but seek first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these will be added to you. 
Therefore do not be anxious for tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for its own things; sufficient for the day is the evil of it.” 
