Genesis.
Chapter 6.
And it comes to pass that mankind has begun to multiply on the face of the ground, and daughters have been born to them, 
and the sons of God see that they, the daughters of men, are beautiful, and they take women for themselves of all whom they have chosen. 
And YHWH says, “My Spirit does not strive in man for all time, for indeed, he is flesh, but his days have been one hundred and twenty years.” 
The giants were in the earth in those days, and even afterward, when sons of God come in to the daughters of men, and they have borne to them those who were the mighty from of old, the men of renown. 
And YHWH sees that the wickedness of man is abundant in the earth, and every imagination of the thoughts of his heart is only evil every day; 
and YHWH regrets that He has made man in the earth, and He grieves Himself—to His heart. 
And YHWH says, “I wipe away man whom I have created from off the face of the ground, from man to beast, to creeping thing, and to bird of the heavens, for I have regretted that I have made them.” 
And Noah found grace in the eyes of YHWH. 
These are the generations of Noah: Noah is a righteous man; he has been perfect among his generations; Noah has habitually walked with God. 
And Noah begets three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
And the earth is corrupt before God, and the earth is filled with violence. 
And God sees the earth, and behold, it has been corrupted, for all flesh has corrupted its way on the earth. 
And God said to Noah, “An end of all flesh has come before Me, for the earth has been full of violence from their presence; and behold, I am destroying them with the earth. 
Make an ark of gopher-wood for yourself; you make rooms within the Ark, and you have covered it from inside and from outside with pitch; 
and this is how you do it: three hundred cubits is the length of the Ark, fifty cubits its breadth, and thirty cubits its height; 
you make a window for the Ark, and you finish it to a cubit from above; and you put the opening of the Ark in its side; you make it with lower, second, and third stories. 
And I, behold, I am bringing in the flood of waters on the earth, to destroy from under the heavens all flesh in which is a living spirit; all that is in the earth expires. 
And I have established My covenant with you, and you have come into the Ark—you, and your sons, and your wife, and your son’s wives with you; 
and of all that lives, of all flesh, you bring two from every kind into the Ark, to keep alive with you; they are male and female. 
From the bird after its kind, and from the livestock after its kind, and from every creeping thing of the ground after its kind, two of every kind they come to you, to keep alive. 
And you, take for yourself from all food that is eaten; and you have gathered it to yourself, and it has been for you and for them for food.” 
And Noah does according to all that God has commanded him; so he has done. 
