Numbers.
Chapter 13.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Send men for yourself, and they spy out the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the sons of Israel; one man—you send one man for the tribe of his fathers, everyone a prince among them.” 
And Moses sends them from the wilderness of Paran by the command of YHWH; all of them are men, and they are heads of the sons of Israel, 
and these are their names: for the tribe of Reuben, Shammua son of Zaccur; 
for the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat son of Hori; 
for the tribe of Judah, Caleb son of Jephunneh; 
for the tribe of Issachar, Igal son of Joseph; 
for the tribe of Ephraim, Oshea son of Nun; 
for the tribe of Benjamin, Palti son of Raphu; 
for the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel son of Sodi; 
for the tribe of Joseph (for the tribe of Manasseh), Gaddi son of Susi; 
for the tribe of Dan, Ammiel son of Gemalli; 
for the tribe of Asher, Sethur son of Michael; 
for the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi son of Vopshi; 
for the tribe of Gad, Geuel son of Machi. 
These are the names of the men whom Moses has sent to spy out the land; and Moses calls Hoshea son of Nun, Joshua. 
And Moses sends them to spy out the land of Canaan and says to them, “Go up this way into the south, and you have gone up the mountain, 
and have seen the land, what it is, and the people which is dwelling on it, whether it is strong or feeble, and whether it is few or many; 
and what the land is in which it is dwelling, whether it is good or bad; and what are the cities in which it is dwelling, whether in camps or in fortresses. 
And what the land is, whether it is fat or lean; whether there is wood in it or not; and you have strengthened yourselves, and have taken of the fruit of the land”; now the days are days of the first-fruits of grapes. 
And they go up and spy out the land, from the wilderness of Zin to Rehob at the going in to Hamath; 
and they go up by the south, and come to Hebron, and there are Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, children of Anak (and Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt), 
and they come to the Brook of Eshcol, and cut down a branch and one cluster of grapes there, and they carry it on a staff by two, also some of the pomegranates, and of the figs. 
That place has been called the Brook of Eshcol, because of the cluster which the sons of Israel cut from there. 
And they return from spying out the land at the end of forty days. 
And they go and come to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, to the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and they bring them and all the congregation back word, and show them the fruit of the land. 
And they recount to him, and say, “We came to the land to where you have sent us, and it is indeed flowing with milk and honey—and this is its fruit; 
only, surely the people which is dwelling in the land is strong; and the cities are fortified and very great; and we have also seen children of Anak there. 
Amalek is dwelling in the land of the south, and the Hittite, and the Jebusite, and the Amorite are dwelling in the hill country, and the Canaanite is dwelling by the sea, and by the side of the Jordan.” 
And Caleb stills the people concerning Moses and says, “Let us certainly go up—and we have possessed it; for we are thoroughly able to do it.” 
And the men who have gone up with him said, “We are not able to go up against the people, for it is stronger than we”; 
and they bring out an evil account of the land which they have spied out to the sons of Israel, saying, “The land into which we passed over to spy it out is a land eating up its inhabitants; and all the people whom we saw in its midst are men of stature; 
and there we saw the giants, sons of Anak, of the giants; and we are as grasshoppers in our own eyes—and so we were in their eyes.” 
