Numbers.
Chapter 28.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Command the sons of Israel, and you have said to them: My offering, My bread for My fire-offerings, My refreshing fragrance, you take heed to bring near to Me in its appointed time. 
And you have said to them: This is the fire-offering which you bring near to YHWH: two lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones, daily, for a continual burnt-offering; 
you prepare the first lamb in the morning, and you prepare the second lamb between the evenings; 
and a tenth of the ephah of flour for a present mixed with a fourth of the hin of beaten oil; 
it is a continual burnt-offering, which was made in Mount Sinai for refreshing fragrance, for a fire-offering to YHWH. 
And its drink-offering is a fourth of the hin for one lamb; pour out a drink-offering of strong drink to YHWH in the holy place. 
And you prepare the second lamb between the evenings; as the present of the morning and as its drink-offering, you prepare it as a fire-offering of refreshing fragrance to YHWH. 
And on the Sabbath day, two lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones, and two-tenth parts of flour, a present mixed with oil, and its drink-offering— 
the burnt-offering of the Sabbath in its Sabbath, besides the continual burnt-offering and its drink-offering. 
And in the beginnings of your months you bring a burnt-offering near to YHWH: two bullocks, sons of the herd, and one ram, seven lambs, sons of a year, perfect ones; 
and three-tenth parts of flour, a present mixed with oil, for one bullock, and two-tenth parts of flour, a present mixed with oil, for one ram; 
and a tenth—a tenth part of flour, a present mixed with oil, for one lamb, for a burnt-offering, a refreshing fragrance, a fire-offering to YHWH; 
and their drink-offerings are a half of the hin for a bullock, and a third of the hin for a ram, and a fourth of the hin for a lamb, of wine; this is the burnt-offering of every month for the months of the year. 
And one kid of the goats is prepared for a sin-offering to YHWH, besides the continual burnt-offering and its drink-offering. 
And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is the Passover to YHWH; 
and in the fifteenth day of this month is a festival; for seven days unleavened bread is eaten. 
In the first day is a holy convocation; you do no servile work; 
and you have brought a fire-offering near, a burnt-offering to YHWH: two bullocks, sons of the herd, and one ram, and seven lambs, sons of a year, they are perfect ones for you; 
and their present of flour mixed with oil—you prepare three-tenth parts for a bullock and two-tenth parts for a ram; 
you prepare a tenth—a tenth part for one lamb, for the seven lambs, 
and one goat for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you. 
Apart from the burnt-offering of the morning, which is for the continual burnt-offering, you prepare these; 
like these you prepare bread of a fire-offering daily for seven days, a refreshing fragrance to YHWH; it is prepared besides the continual burnt-offering and its drink-offering. 
And on the seventh day you have a holy convocation; you do no servile work. 
And on the day of the first-fruits, in your bringing a new present near to YHWH, in your weeks, you have a holy convocation; you do no servile work. 
And you have brought a burnt-offering near for refreshing fragrance to YHWH: two bullocks, sons of the herd, one ram, seven lambs, sons of a year, 
and their present, flour mixed with oil, three-tenth parts for one bullock, two-tenth parts for one ram, 
a tenth—a tenth part for one lamb, for the seven lambs; 
one kid of the goats to make atonement for you; 
apart from the continual burnt-offering and its present, you prepare them and their drink-offerings; they are perfect ones for you.” 
