1 John.
Chapter 3.
See what love the Father has given to us, that we may be called children of God; because of this the world does not know us, because it did not know Him. 
Beloved, now, we are children of God, and it was not yet revealed what we will be. We have known that if He may have appeared, we will be like Him, because we will see Him as He is; 
and everyone who is having this hope on Him, purifies himself, even as He is pure. 
Everyone who is doing sin, he also does lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness, 
and you have known that He appeared that He may take away our sins, and sin is not in Him; 
everyone who is remaining in Him does not sin; everyone who is sinning, has not seen Him, nor known Him. 
Little children, let no one lead you astray; he who is doing righteousness is righteous, even as He is righteous, 
he who is doing sin, he is of the Devil, because the Devil sins from the beginning; for this reason the Son of God appeared, that He may undo the works of the Devil; 
everyone who has been begotten of God, he does not sin, because His seed remains in him, and he is not able to sin, because he has been begotten of God. 
In this are revealed the children of God, and the children of the Devil; everyone who is not doing righteousness, is not of God, and he who is not loving his brother, 
because this is the message that you heard from the beginning, that we may love one another, 
not as Cain—he was of the evil one, and he slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his works were evil, and those of his brother were righteous. 
Do not wonder, my brothers, if the world hates you; 
we have known that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers; he who is not loving his brother remains in death. 
Everyone who is hating his brother is a manslayer, and you have known that no manslayer has continuous life remaining in him; 
in this we have known love, because He laid down His life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers; 
and whoever may have the goods of the world, and may view his brother having need, and may shut up his yearnings from him—how does the love of God remain in him? 
My little children, may we not love in word nor in tongue, but in work and in truth! 
And in this we know that we are of the truth, and before Him we will assure our hearts, 
because if our heart may condemn—because greater is God than our heart, and He knows all things. 
Beloved, if our heart may not condemn us, we have boldness toward God, 
and whatever we may ask, we receive from Him, because we keep His commands, and we do the things pleasing before Him, 
and this is His command, that we may believe in the Name of His Son Jesus Christ, and may love one another, even as He gave command to us, 
and he who is keeping His commands, remains in Him, and He in him; and in this we know that He remains in us, from the Spirit that He gave us. 
