Luke.
Chapter 7.
And when He completed all His sayings in the ears of the people, He went into Capernaum; 
and a certain centurion’s servant being ill, was about to die, who was much valued by him, 
and having heard about Jesus, he sent to Him elders of the Jews, imploring Him, that having come He might thoroughly save his servant. 
And they, having come near to Jesus, were calling on Him earnestly, saying, “He is worthy to whom You will do this, 
for he loves our nation, and he built to us the synagogue.” 
And Jesus was going on with them, and now when He is not far distant from the house the centurion sent to Him friends, saying to Him, “Lord, do not be troubled, for I am not worthy that You may enter under my roof; 
for this reason I did not consider myself worthy to come to You, but say in a word, and my boy will be healed; 
for I also am a man placed under authority, having under myself soldiers, and I say to this one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Be coming, and he comes; and to my servant, Do this, and he does it.” 
And having heard these things Jesus wondered at him, and having turned to the multitude following Him, He said, “I say to you, not even in Israel did I find so much faith”; 
and those sent, having turned back to the house, found the ailing servant in health. 
And it came to pass, on the next day, He was going on to a city called Nain, and there were going with Him many of His disciples, and a great multitude, 
and as He came near to the gate of the city, then, behold, one dead was being carried forth, an only son of his mother, and she a widow, and a great multitude of the city was with her. 
And the LORD having seen her, was moved with compassion toward her and said to her, “Do not be weeping”; 
and having come near, He touched the bier, and those carrying it stood still, and He said, “Young man, to you I say, Arise”; 
and the dead sat up, and began to speak, and He gave him to his mother; 
and fear took hold of all, and they were glorifying God, saying, “A great prophet has risen among us,” and, “God looked on His people.” 
And the account of this went forth in all Judea about Him, and in all the region around. 
And the disciples of John told him about all these things, 
and John having called near a certain two of his disciples, sent to Jesus, saying, “Are You He who is coming, or do we look for another?” 
And having come near to Him, the men said, “John the Immerser sent us to You, saying, Are You He who is coming, or do we look for another?” 
And in that hour He cured many from diseases, and plagues, and evil spirits, and He granted sight to many blind. 
And Jesus answering said to them, “Having gone on, report to John what you saw and heard, that blind men see again, lame walk, lepers are cleansed, deaf hear, dead are raised, poor have good news proclaimed; 
and blessed is he whoever may not be stumbled in Me.” 
And the messengers of John having gone away, He began to say to the multitudes concerning John: “What have you gone forth into the wilderness to look on? A reed shaken by the wind? 
But what have you gone forth to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Behold, they in splendid clothing, and living in luxury, are in the houses of kings! 
But what have you gone forth to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and much more than a prophet: 
this is he concerning whom it has been written: Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way before You; 
for I say to you, there is not a greater prophet, among those born of women, than John the Immerser; but the least in the Kingdom of God is greater than he.” 
And all the people having heard, and the tax collectors, declared God righteous, having been immersed with the immersion of John, 
but the Pharisees and the lawyers put away the counsel of God for themselves, having not been immersed by him. 
And the LORD said, “To what, then, will I liken the men of this generation? And to what are they like? 
They are like to children, to those sitting in a marketplace, and calling to one another, and saying, We piped to you, and you did not dance, we mourned to you, and you did not weep! 
For John the Immerser came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, He has a demon; 
the Son of Man came eating and drinking, and you say, Behold, a man, a glutton, and a wine drinker, a friend of tax collectors and sinners; 
and the wisdom was justified from all her children.” 
And a certain one of the Pharisees was asking Him that He might eat with him, and having gone into the house of the Pharisee He reclined, 
and behold, a woman in the city, who was a sinner, having known that He reclines in the house of the Pharisee, having provided an alabaster box of ointment, 
and having stood behind, beside His feet, weeping, she began to wet His feet with the tears, and with the hairs of her head she was wiping, and was kissing His feet, and was anointing with the ointment. 
And the Pharisee who called Him, having seen, spoke within himself, saying, “This One, if He were a prophet, would have known who and of what kind is the woman who touches Him, that she is a sinner.” 
And Jesus answering said to him, “Simon, I have something to say to you”; and he says, “Teacher, say on.” 
“Two debtors were to a certain creditor; one was owing five hundred denarii, and the other fifty; 
and they not having with which to give back, he forgave both; which of them then, do you say, will love him more?” 
And Simon answering said, “I suppose that to whom he forgave the more”; and He said to him, “You judged correctly.” 
And having turned to the woman, He said to Simon, “See this woman? I entered into your house; you did not give water for My feet, but this woman wet My feet with tears, and wiped with the hairs of her head; 
you did not give a kiss to Me, but this woman, from what time I came in, did not cease kissing My feet; 
you did not anoint My head with oil, but this woman anointed My feet with oil; 
therefore I say to you, her many sins have been forgiven, because she loved much; but to whom is forgiven little, loves little.” 
And He said to her, “Your sins have been forgiven”; 
and those dining with Him began to say within themselves, “Who is this, who also forgives sins?” 
And He said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you, be going on to peace.” 
