Deuteronomy.
Chapter 10.
“At that time YHWH has said to me, Hew two tablets of stone for yourself like the first, and come up to Me into the mountain, and you have made an ark of wood for yourself, 
and I write on the tablets the words which were on the first tablets, which you have broken, and you have placed them in the Ark. 
And I make an ark of shittim wood, and hew two tablets of stone like the first, and go up to the mountain with the two tablets in my hand. 
And He writes on the tablets according to the first writing, the Ten Commandments, which YHWH has spoken to you in the mountain, out of the midst of the fire, in the day of the assembly, and YHWH gives them to me, 
and I turn and come down from the mountain, and put the tablets in the Ark which I had made, and they are there, as YHWH commanded me. 
And the sons of Israel have journeyed from Beeroth of the sons of Jaakan to Mosera; Aaron died there, and he is buried there, and his son Eleazar acts as priest in his stead. 
From there they journeyed to Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of brooks of water. 
At that time YHWH has separated the tribe of Levi to carry the Ark of the Covenant of YHWH, to stand before YHWH, to serve Him, and to bless in His Name to this day; 
therefore there has not been a portion and inheritance for Levi with his brothers; YHWH Himself is his inheritance, as your God YHWH has spoken to him. 
And I have stood in the mountain, as the former days, for forty days and forty nights, and YHWH also listens to me at that time; YHWH has not willed to destroy you. 
And YHWH says to me, Rise, go to journey before the people, and they go in and possess the land which I have sworn to their fathers to give to them. 
And now, O Israel, what is your God YHWH asking from you, except to fear your God YHWH, to walk in all His ways, and to love Him, and to serve your God YHWH with all your heart and with all your soul, 
to keep the commands of YHWH, and His statutes which I am commanding you today, for good for you? 
Behold, the heavens, even the heavens of the heavens, belong to your God YHWH, as does the earth and all that is in it. 
Only, YHWH has delighted in your fathers, to love them, and He fixes on their seed after them—on you, out of all the peoples, as at this day. 
And you have circumcised the foreskin of your heart, and you do not harden your neck anymore. 
For He, your God YHWH, is God of the gods and Lord of the lords—the great, the mighty, and the fearful God, who does not accept by appearances, nor takes a bribe; 
He is doing the judgment of fatherless and widow, and loving the sojourner, to give bread and raiment to him. 
And you have loved the sojourner, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. 
You fear your God YHWH, you serve Him, and you cleave to Him, and you swear by His Name. 
He is your praise, and He is your God, who has done these great and fearful things with you which your eyes have seen. 
Your fathers went down to Egypt with seventy persons, and now your God YHWH has made you as the stars of the heavens for multitude.” 
