2 Chronicles.
Chapter 8.
And it comes to pass at the end of twenty years that Solomon has built the house of YHWH and his own house. 
As for the cities that Huram has given to Solomon, Solomon has built them, and he causes the sons of Israel to dwell there. 
And Solomon goes to Hamath-Zobah, and lays hold on it; 
and he builds Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the cities of store that he has built in Hamath. 
And he builds Beth-Horon the upper, and Beth-Horon the lower—cities of defense, with walls, double gates, and bar— 
and Ba‘alath, and all the cities of store that Solomon had, and all the cities of the chariot, and the cities of the horsemen, and all the desire of Solomon that he desired to build in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion. 
All the people who are left of the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, who are not of Israel— 
of their sons who have been left after them in the land, whom the sons of Israel did not consume—Solomon lifts up a tribute to this day. 
And Solomon has made none of the sons of Israel servants for his work, but they are men of war, and heads of his captains, and heads of his charioteers, and of his horsemen; 
and these are heads of the officers whom King Solomon has, two hundred and fifty who are rulers among the people. 
And Solomon has brought up the daughter of Pharaoh from the City of David to the house that he built for her, for he said, “My wife does not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, for they are holy to whom the Ark of YHWH has come.” 
Then Solomon has caused burnt-offerings to ascend to YHWH on the altar of YHWH that he built before the porch, 
even by the matter of a day in its day, to cause to ascend according to the command of Moses, on Sabbaths, and on new moons, and on appointed times, three times in a year—in the Celebration of Unleavened Things, and in the Celebration of Weeks, and in the Celebration of Shelters. 
And he establishes, according to the ordinance of his father David, the divisions of the priests over their service, and of the Levites over their charges, to praise and to minister before the priests, according to the matter of a day in its day, and the gatekeepers in their divisions at every gate, for so is the command of David the man of God. 
And they have not turned aside from the command of the king concerning the priests and the Levites, in reference to any matter, and to the treasures. 
And all the work of Solomon is prepared until the day of the foundation of the house of YHWH, and until its completion; the house of YHWH is perfect. 
Then Solomon has gone to Ezion-Geber, and to Elath, on the border of the sea, in the land of Edom; 
and Huram sends to him, by the hand of his servants, ships and servants knowing the sea, and they go with servants of Solomon to Ophir, and take four hundred and fifty talents of gold from there, and bring it to King Solomon. 
