The Book of Joshua.
Chapter 1.
And it comes to pass after the death of Moses, servant of YHWH, that YHWH speaks to Joshua son of Nun, minister of Moses, saying, 
“My servant Moses is dead, and now, rise, pass over this Jordan, you and all this people, to the land which I am giving to them, to the sons of Israel. 
Every place on which the sole of your foot treads, I have given it to you, as I have spoken to Moses. 
From this wilderness and Lebanon, and to the great river, the Euphrates River, all the land of the Hittites, and to the Great Sea—the going in of the sun—is your border. 
No man stations himself before you all the days of your life; as I have been with Moses, I am with you, I do not fail you, nor forsake you; 
be strong and courageous, for you cause this people to inherit the land which I have sworn to their fathers to give to them. 
Only, be strong and very courageous, to observe to do according to all the Law which Moses My servant commanded you; you do not turn aside from it right or left, so that you act wisely in every place to where you go; 
the scroll of this Law does not depart out of your mouth, and you have meditated in it by day and by night, so that you observe to do according to all that is written in it, for then you cause your way to prosper, and then you act wisely. 
Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous; do not be terrified nor frightened, for your God YHWH is with you in every place to where you go.” 
And Joshua commands the authorities of the people, saying, 
“Pass over into the midst of the camp, and command the people, saying, Prepare provision for yourselves, for within three days you are passing over this Jordan, to go in to possess the land which your God YHWH is giving to you to possess it.” 
And to the Reubenite, and to the Gadite, and to the half of the tribe of Manasseh, Joshua has spoken, saying, 
“Remember the word which Moses, servant of YHWH, commanded you, saying, Your God YHWH is giving rest to you, and He has given this land to you; 
your wives, your infants, and your substance, abide in the land which Moses has given to you beyond the Jordan, and you pass over by fifties, before your brothers, all the mighty men of valor, and have helped them, 
until YHWH gives rest to your brothers as to yourselves, and they have possessed, even they, the land which your God YHWH is giving to them; then you have turned back to the land of your possession, and have possessed it, which Moses, servant of YHWH, has given to you beyond the Jordan, at the sun-rising.” 
And they answer Joshua, saying, “All that you have commanded us we do; and to every place to where you send us, we go; 
according to all that we listened to from Moses, so we listen to you; surely your God YHWH is with you as He has been with Moses. 
Any man who provokes your mouth, and does not hear your words, in all that you command him, is put to death; only, be strong and courageous.” 
