Ezekiel.
Chapter 45.
“And in your causing the land to fall into inheritance, you lift up a raised-offering to YHWH, a holy portion of the land: the length—twenty-five thousand is the length, and the breadth—ten thousand; it is holy in all its surrounding border. 
There is of this for the sanctuary five hundred by five hundred, square, around; and fifty cubits of outskirt is around it. 
And by this measure you measure: the length—twenty-five thousand, and the breadth—ten thousand: and the sanctuary is in it, the Holy of Holies. 
It is the holy portion of the land; it is for priests, servants of the sanctuary, who are drawing near to serve YHWH; and it has been a place for their houses, and a holy place for the sanctuary. 
And of the twenty-five thousand of length, and of the ten thousand of breadth, there is to the Levites, servants of the house, for them—for a possession—twenty chambers. 
And of the possession of the city you set an area of five thousand breadth, and twenty-five thousand length, alongside the raised-offering of the holy portion; it is for all the house of Israel. 
And for the prince: on this side and on that side of the raised-offering of the holy place, and of the possession of the city, at the front of the raised-offering of the holy place, and at the front of the possession of the city, from the west corner westward, and from the east corner eastward—and the length is corresponding to one of the portions from the west border to the east border— 
of the land there is for a possession to him in Israel, and My princes do not oppress My people anymore, and they give the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes.” 
Thus said Lord YHWH: “Enough from you—princes of Israel; turn violence and spoil aside, and do judgment and righteousness; lift up your exactions from off My people—a declaration of Lord YHWH. 
You must have just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath. 
The ephah and the bath is of one measure, for the bath to carry a tenth of the homer, and the ephah a tenth of the homer: its measurement is according to the homer. 
And the shekel is twenty gerah: twenty shekels, twenty-five shekels, fifteen shekels—is your maneh. 
This is the raised-offering that you lift up; a sixth part of the ephah of a homer of wheat, also you have given a sixth part of the ephah of a homer of barley, 
and the portion of oil, the bath of oil, a tenth part of the bath out of the cor, a homer of ten baths—for ten baths are a homer; 
and one lamb out of the flock, out of two hundred, out of the watered country of Israel, for a present, and for a burnt-offering, and for peace-offerings, to make atonement by them—a declaration of Lord YHWH. 
All the people of the land are at this raised-offering for the prince in Israel. 
And on the prince are the burnt-offerings, and the present, and the drink-offering, in celebrations, and in new moons, and in Sabbaths, in all appointed times of the house of Israel: he makes the sin-offering, and the present, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings, to make atonement for the house of Israel.” 
Thus said Lord YHWH: “In the first month, on the first of the month, you take a bullock, a son of the herd, a perfect one, and have cleansed the sanctuary: 
and the priest has taken from the blood of the sin offering, and has put it on the doorpost of the house, and on the four corners of the border of the altar, and on the post of the gate of the inner court. 
And so you do on the seventh of the month, because of each erring one, and because of the simple one—and you have purified the house. 
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you have the Passover, a celebration of seven days, unleavened bread is eaten. 
And the prince has prepared on that day, for himself, and for all the people of the land, a bullock, a sin-offering. 
And on the seven days of the celebration he prepares a burnt-offering to YHWH, seven bullocks, and seven rams, perfect ones, daily for seven days, and a sin-offering, a kid of the goats, daily. 
And he prepares a present of an ephah for a bullock, and an ephah for a ram, and a hin of oil for an ephah. 
In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, in the celebration, he does according to these things for seven days; as the sin-offering so the burnt-offering, and as the present so also the oil.” 
