Genesis.
Chapter 13.
And Abram goes up from Egypt (he and his wife, and all that he has, and Lot with him) toward the south; 
and Abram is exceedingly wealthy in livestock, in silver, and in gold. 
And he goes on his journeys from the south, even to Bethel, to the place where his tent had been at the commencement, between Bethel and Hai— 
to the place of the altar which he made there at the first, and there Abram preaches in the Name of YHWH. 
And also to Lot, who is going with Abram, there has been sheep and oxen and tents; 
and the land has not permitted them to dwell together, for their substance has been much, and they have not been able to dwell together; 
and there is a strife between those feeding Abram’s livestock and those feeding Lot’s livestock; and the Canaanite and the Perizzite are then dwelling in the land. 
And Abram says to Lot, “Please let there not be strife between me and you, and between my shepherds and your shepherds, for we are men—brothers. 
Is not all the land before you? Please be parted from me; if to the left, then I to the right; and if to the right, then I to the left.” 
And Lot lifts up his eyes, and sees the whole circuit of the Jordan that it is all a watered country (before YHWH’s destroying Sodom and Gomorrah, as YHWH’s garden, as the land of Egypt), in your coming toward Zoar, 
and Lot chooses for himself the whole circuit of the Jordan; and Lot journeys from the east, and they are parted—a man from his companion; 
Abram has dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot has dwelt in the cities of the circuit, and moves his tent to Sodom; 
and the men of Sodom are evil, and sinners before YHWH exceedingly. 
And YHWH said to Abram, after Lot’s being parted from him, “Now lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward; 
for the whole of the land which you are seeing, I give it to you and to your Seed for all time. 
And I have set your seed as dust of the earth, so that, if one is able to number the dust of the earth, even your seed is numbered; 
rise, go up and down through the land, to its length, and to its breadth, for to you I give it.” 
And Abram moves his tent, and comes, and dwells among the oaks of Mamre, which are in Hebron, and builds there an altar to YHWH. 
