Deuteronomy.
Chapter 20.
“When you go out to battle against your enemy, and have seen horse and chariot—a people more numerous than you—you are not afraid of them, for your God YHWH is with you, who is bringing you up out of the land of Egypt; 
and it has been, in your drawing near to the battle, that the priest has come near, and spoken to the people, 
and said to them, Hear, O Israel: You are drawing near today to battle against your enemies, do not let your hearts be tender, do not fear, nor make haste, nor be terrified at their presence, 
for your God YHWH is He who is going with you, to fight for you with your enemies—to save you. 
And the authorities have spoken to the people, saying, Who is the man that has built a new house and has not dedicated it? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in battle and another man dedicate it. 
And who is the man that has planted a vineyard and has not made it common? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in battle, and another man make it common. 
And who is the man that has betrothed a woman and has not taken her? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in battle, and another man take her. 
And the authorities have added to speak to the people and said, Who is the man that is afraid and tender of heart? Let him go and return to his house, and the heart of his brothers does not melt like his heart. 
And it has come to pass, as the authorities finish to speak to the people, that they have appointed princes of the hosts at the head of the people. 
When you draw near to a city to fight against it, then you have called to it for peace, 
and it has been, if it answers you with peace, and has opened to you, then it has come to pass, all the people who are found in it are for tributaries to you, and have served you. 
And if it does not make peace with you, and has made war with you, then you have laid siege against it, 
and your God YHWH has given it into your hand, and you have struck every male of it by the mouth of the sword. 
Only, the women, and the infants, and the livestock, and all that is in the city, all its spoil, you seize for yourself, and you have eaten the spoil of your enemies which your God YHWH has given to you. 
So you do to all the cities which are very far off from you, which are not of the cities of these nations. 
Only, of the cities of these peoples which your God YHWH is giving to you for an inheritance, you do not keep alive any that are breathing; 
for you certainly devote the Hittite, and the Amorite, the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, as your God YHWH has commanded you, 
so that they do not teach you to do according to all their abominations which they have done for their gods, and you have sinned against your God YHWH. 
When you lay siege to a city for many days to fight against it, to capture it, you do not destroy its trees to force an axe against them, for you eat of them, and you do not cut them down—for the tree of the field is man’s—to go in at your presence in the siege. 
Only, the tree of which you know that it is not a fruit-tree, you destroy it, and have cut it down, and have built a bulwark against the city which is making war with you until you have subdued it.” 
