Revelation.
Chapter 6.
And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying, as it were a voice of thunder, “Come and behold!” 
And I saw, and behold, a white horse, and he who is sitting on it is having a bow, and there was given to him a garland, and he went forth overcoming, and that he may overcome. 
And when He opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, “Come and behold!” 
And there went forth another horse—fire-colored, and to him who is sitting on it, there was given to him to take peace from the earth, and that they may slay one another, and there was given to him a great sword. 
And when He opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, “Come and behold!” And I saw, and behold, a black horse, and he who is sitting on it is having a balance in his hand, 
and I heard a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, “A measure of wheat for a denarius, and three measures of barley for a denarius, and you may not injure the oil and the wine.” 
And when He opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying, “Come and behold!” 
And I saw, and behold, a pale horse, and he who is sitting on him—his name is Death, and Hades follows with him, and there was given to them authority to kill over the fourth part of the earth with sword, and with hunger, and with death, and by the beasts of the earth. 
And when He opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those slain because of the word of God, and because of the testimony that they held, 
and they were crying with a great voice, saying, “Until when, O Master, the Holy and the True, do You not judge and take vengeance of our blood from those dwelling on the earth?” 
And there was given to each one a white robe, and it was said to them that they may rest themselves yet a short time, until may also be fulfilled their fellow-servants and their brothers, who are about to be killed—even as they. 
And I saw when He opened the sixth seal, and behold, a great earthquake came, and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood, 
and the stars of Heaven fell to the earth—as a fig tree casts her unripe figs, being shaken by a great wind— 
and the sky departed as a scroll rolled up, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places; 
and the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich, and the chiefs of thousands, and the mighty, and every servant, and every freeman, hid themselves in the dens, and in the rocks of the mountains, 
and they say to the mountains and to the rocks, “Fall on us, and hide us from the face of Him who is sitting on the throne, and from the anger of the Lamb,” 
because the great day of His anger has come, and who is able to stand? 
