Luke.
Chapter 13.
And there were some present at that time, telling Him about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate mingled with their sacrifices; 
and Jesus answering said to them, “Do you think that these Galileans became sinners beyond all the Galileans, because they have suffered such things? 
No—I say to you, but if you may not convert, even so will all you perish. 
Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell, and killed them, do you think that these became debtors beyond all men who are dwelling in Jerusalem? 
No—I say to you, but if you may not convert, all you will perish in like manner.” 
And He spoke this allegory: “A certain one had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit in it, and he did not find; 
and he said to the vinedresser, Behold, three years I come seeking fruit in this fig tree, and do not find it, cut it off, why does it also render the ground useless? 
And he answering says to him, Lord, permit it also this year, until I may dig around it, and cast in dung; 
and if indeed it may bear fruit—and if not so, thereafter you will cut it off.” 
And He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, 
and behold, there was a woman having a spirit of disability for eighteen years, and she was bent together, and not able to bend back at all, 
and Jesus having seen her, called her near and said to her, “Woman, you have been loosed from your disability”; 
and He laid on her His hands, and immediately she was set upright, and was glorifying God. 
And the chief of the synagogue answering—much displeased that on the Sabbath Jesus healed—said to the multitude, “Six days there are in which it is necessary to be working; in these, then, coming, be healed, and not on the day of the Sabbath.” 
Then the LORD answered him and said, “Hypocrite, do not each of you loose his ox or donkey from the stall on the Sabbath, and having led it away, water it? 
And this one, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan bound eighteen years, behold, did she not ought to be loosed from this bond on the day of the Sabbath?” 
And He saying these things, all who were opposed to Him were being ashamed, and all the multitude were rejoicing over all the glorious things that are being done by Him. 
And He said, “To what is the Kingdom of God like? And to what will I liken it? 
It is like to a grain of mustard, which a man having taken, cast into his garden, and it increased, and came to a great tree, and the birds of the heavens rested in its branches.” 
And again He said, “To what will I liken the Kingdom of God? 
It is like leaven, which a woman, having taken, hid in three measures of meal, until all was leavened.” 
And He was going through cities and villages, teaching, and making progress toward Jerusalem; 
and a certain one said to Him, “Lord, are those saved few?” And He said to them, 
“Be striving to go in through the straight gate, because many, I say to you, will seek to go in, and will not be able; 
from the time the Master of the house may have risen up, and may have shut the door, and you may begin to stand outside, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us, and He answering will say to you, I have not known you from where you are, 
then you may begin to say, We ate before You, and drank, and You taught in our broad places; 
and He will say, I say to you, I have not known you from where you are; depart from Me, all you workers of the unrighteousness. 
There will be there the weeping and the gnashing of the teeth when you may see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the Kingdom of God, and yourselves being cast outside; 
and they will come from east and west, and from north and south, and will recline in the Kingdom of God, 
and behold, there are last who will be first, and there are first who will be last.” 
On that day there came near certain Pharisees, saying to Him, “Go forth, and be going on from here, for Herod wishes to kill You”; 
and He said to them, “Having gone, say to that fox, Behold, I cast forth demons, and perfect cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I am being perfected; 
but it is necessary for Me today, and tomorrow, and the day following, to go on, because it is not possible for a prophet to perish out of Jerusalem. 
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that is killing the prophets, and stoning those sent to her, how often I willed to gather together your children, as a hen gathers her brood under the wings, and you did not will. 
Behold, your house is being left to you desolate, and truly I say to you, you may not see Me, until it may come when you may say, Blessed is He who is coming in the Name of the LORD.” 
