The First Letter of Paul to Timothy.
Chapter 1.
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to a command of God our Savior, and of the Lord Jesus Christ our hope, 
to Timotheus—genuine child in faith: Grace, kindness, peace, from God our Father and Christ Jesus our Lord! 
According as I exhorted you to remain in Ephesus—I going on to Macedonia—that you might charge certain ones not to teach any other thing, 
nor to give heed to fables and endless genealogies, that cause questions rather than the stewardship of God which is in faith. 
And the end of the charge is love out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of unhypocritical faith, 
from which certain men, having swerved, turned aside to vain discourse, 
willing to be teachers of law, not understanding either the things they say, nor concerning what they confidently assert, 
and we have known that the Law is good, if anyone may use it lawfully; 
having known this, that law is not set for a righteous man, but for lawless and insubordinate persons, ungodly and sinners, impious and profane, murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, manslayers, 
whoremongers, homosexuals, enslavers, liars, perjured persons, and if there be any other thing that is adverse to sound doctrine, 
according to the good news of the glory of the blessed God, with which I was entrusted. 
And I give thanks to Him who enabled me—Christ Jesus our Lord—that He reckoned me steadfast, having put me to the ministry, 
who before was speaking slander, and persecuting, and insulting, but I found kindness, because, being ignorant, I did it in unbelief, 
and the grace of our Lord exceedingly abounded, with faith and love that is in Christ Jesus. 
The word is steadfast, and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners—of whom I am first; 
but because of this I found kindness, that Jesus Christ might first show forth all long-suffering in me, for a pattern of those about to believe on Him to continuous life. 
And to the King of the ages, the incorruptible, invisible, only wise God, is honor and glory through the ages of the ages! Amen. 
I commit to you this charge, child Timotheus, according to the prophecies that went before on you, that you may war in them the good warfare, 
having faith and a good conscience, which some having thrust away, made shipwreck concerning the faith, 
of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I delivered to Satan, that they might be instructed not to speak evil. 
