1 Corinthians.
Chapter 12.
And concerning the spiritual things, brothers, I do not wish you to be ignorant; 
you have known that you were nations, being carried away as you were led to the mute idols; 
for this reason, I give you to understand that no one, speaking in the Spirit of God, says Jesus is accursed, and no one is able to say Jesus is LORD, except in the Holy Spirit. 
And there are diversities of gifts, and the same Spirit; 
and there are diversities of ministries, and the same Lord; 
and there are diversities of workings, and it is the same God—who is working all in all. 
And to each has been given the manifestation of the Spirit for profit; 
for to one through the Spirit has been given a word of wisdom, and to another a word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit; 
and to another faith in the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healings in the same Spirit; 
and to another in-workings of mighty deeds; and to another prophecy; and to another discernings of spirits; and to another various kinds of tongues; and to another interpretation of tongues: 
and the one and the same Spirit works all these, dividing to each individually as He intends. 
For even as the body is one, and has many members, and all the members of the one body, being many, are one body, so also is the Christ, 
for also in one Spirit we were all immersed into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether servants or freemen, and all were made to drink one Spirit, 
for also the body is not one member, but many. 
If the foot may say, “Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body,” is it not, because of this, not of the body? 
And if the ear may say, “Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body,” is it not, because of this, not of the body? 
If the whole body were an eye, where the hearing? If the whole hearing, where the smelling? 
And now, God set the members, each one of them in the body, according as He willed, 
and if all were one member, where is the body? 
And now, indeed, are many members, but one body; 
and an eye is not able to say to the hand, “I have no need of you”; nor again the head to the feet, “I have no need of you.” 
But much more the members of the body seeming to be weaker are necessary, 
and those that we think to be less honorable of the body, around these we put more abundant honor, and our unseemly things have more abundant seemliness, 
and our seemly things have no need; but God tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to the lacking part, 
that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same anxiety for one another, 
and whether one member suffers, all the members suffer with it, or one member is glorified, all the members rejoice with it; 
and you are the body of Christ, and members in particular. 
And some, indeed, God set in the Assembly: first apostles, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers, afterward powers, afterward gifts of healings, helpings, governings, various kinds of tongues. 
Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all powers? 
Do all have gifts of healings? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? 
And earnestly desire the better gifts; and yet I show to you a far more excelling way: 
