1 Corinthians.
Chapter 11.
Become followers of me, as I also am of Christ. 
And I praise you, brothers, that in all things you remember me, and according as I delivered to you, you keep the deliverances, 
and I wish you to know that the Christ is the head of every man, and the head of a woman is the husband, and the head of Christ is God. 
Every man praying or prophesying, having the head covered, dishonors his head, 
and every woman praying or prophesying with the head uncovered, dishonors her own head, for it is one and the same thing with her being shaven, 
for if a woman is not covered—then let her be shorn, and if it is a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven—let her be covered; 
for a man, indeed, ought not to cover the head, being the image and glory of God, and a woman is the glory of a man, 
for a man is not of a woman, but a woman is of a man, 
for also was a man not created because of the woman, but a woman because of the man; 
because of this the woman ought to have a token of authority on the head, because of the messengers; 
but neither is a man apart from a woman, nor a woman apart from a man, in the LORD, 
for as the woman is of the man, so also the man is through the woman, and all the things are of God. 
Judge in your own selves: is it seemly for a woman to pray to God uncovered? 
Does not even nature itself teach you, that if a man indeed has long hair, it is a dishonor to him? 
And a woman, if she has long hair, it is a glory to her, because the hair has been given to her instead of a covering; 
and if anyone thinks to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the assemblies of God. 
And declaring this, I give no praise, because you do not come together for the better, but for the worse; 
for first, indeed, coming together in an assembly, I hear of divisions being among you, and I partly believe it, 
for it is also necessary for sects to be among you, that those approved may become visible among you; 
you, then, coming together at the same place—it is not to eat the LORD’s Dinner; 
for each takes his own dinner before in the eating, and one is hungry, and another is drunk; 
why, do you not have houses to eat and to drink in? Or do you despise the Assembly of God, and shame those not having? What may I say to you? Will I praise you in this? I do not praise! 
For I received from the LORD that which I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which He was delivered up, took bread, 
and having given thanks, He broke, and said, “Take, eat, this is My body that is being broken for you; do this—to the remembrance of Me.” 
In like manner also the cup after the supping, saying, “This cup is the New Covenant in My blood; do this, as often as you may drink it—to the remembrance of Me”; 
for as often as you may eat this bread, and may drink this cup, you show forth the death of the LORD—until He may come; 
so that whoever may eat this bread or may drink the cup of the LORD unworthily, he will be guilty of the body and blood of the LORD: 
and let a man be proving himself, and so let him eat of the bread, and let him drink of the cup; 
for he who is eating and drinking unworthily, he eats and drinks judgment to himself—not discerning the body of the LORD. 
Because of this many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep; 
for if we were discerning ourselves, we would not be being judged, 
and being judged by the LORD, we are disciplined, that we may not be condemned with the world; 
so then, my brothers, coming together to eat, wait for one another; 
and if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, that you may not come together to judgment; and the rest, whenever I may come, I will arrange. 
