Matthew.
Chapter 28.
Now after the Sabbaths, it being dawn, toward the first day of the weeks, Mary the Magdalene came, and the other Mary, to see the grave, 
and behold, there came a great earthquake, for a messenger of the LORD, having come down out of Heaven, having come, rolled away the stone from the door, and was sitting on it, 
and his countenance was as lightning, and his clothing white as snow, 
and from the fear of him the keepers shook, and they became as dead men. 
And the messenger answering said to the women, “Do not fear, for I have known that you seek Jesus who has been crucified; 
He is not here, for He rose, as He said; come, see the place where the LORD was lying; 
and having gone quickly, say to His disciples that He rose from the dead; and behold, He goes before you to Galilee, there you will see Him; behold, I have told you.” 
And having gone forth quickly from the tomb, with fear and great joy, they ran to tell His disciples; 
and as they were going to tell His disciples, then behold, Jesus met them, saying, “Greetings!” And having come near, they laid hold of His feet, and worshiped Him. 
Then Jesus says to them, “Do not fear, go away, tell My brothers that they may go away to Galilee, and there they will see Me.” 
And while they are going on, behold, certain of the guard having come into the city, reported to the chief priests all the things that happened, 
and having been gathered together with the elders, having also taken counsel, they gave much money to the soldiers, 
saying, “Say that His disciples having come by night, stole Him—we being asleep; 
and if this is heard by the governor, we will persuade him, and you keep free from anxiety.” 
And they, having received the money, did as they were taught, and this account was spread abroad among Jews until this day. 
And the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus appointed them, 
and having seen Him, they worshiped Him, but some wavered. 
And having come near, Jesus spoke to them, saying, “All authority in Heaven and on earth was given to Me; 
having gone, then, disciple all the nations, immersing them into the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, 
teaching them to observe all, whatever I commanded you, and behold, I am with you all the days—until the full end of the age.”
