2 Chronicles.
Chapter 34.
Josiah is a son of eight years in his reigning, and he has reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem, 
and he does that which is right in the eyes of YHWH, and walks in the ways of his father David, and has not turned aside to the right or left. 
And in the eighth year of his reign (and he is yet a youth), he has begun to seek for the God of his father David, and in the twelfth year he has begun to cleanse Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, and the Asherim, and the carved images, and the molten images. 
And they break down the altars of the Ba‘alim before him, and he has cut down the images that are on high above them, and the Asherim, and the carved images, and the molten images, he has broken and beaten small, and strews them on the surface of the graves of those sacrificing to them, 
and he has burned the bones of the priests on their altars, and cleanses Judah and Jerusalem, 
and in the cities of Manasseh, and Ephraim, and Simeon, even to Naphtali, with their tools, all around. 
And he breaks down the altars and the Asherim, and he has beaten down the carved images very small, and he has cut down all the images in all the land of Israel, and turns back to Jerusalem. 
And in the eighteenth year of his reign, to purify the land and the house, he has sent Shaphan son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah head of the city, and Joah son of Johaz the remembrancer, to strengthen the house of his God YHWH. 
And they come to Hilkiah the high priest, and they give the money that is brought into the house of God, that the Levites, keeping the threshold, have gathered from the hand of Manasseh, and Ephraim, and from all the remnant of Israel, and from all Judah, and Benjamin, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, 
and they give it into the hand of the workmen, those appointed over the house of YHWH, and they give it to the workmen who are working in the house of YHWH, to repair and to strengthen the house; 
and they give it to craftsmen and to builders to buy hewn stones, and wood for couplings and for beams for the houses that the kings of Judah had destroyed. 
And the men are working faithfully in the business, and over them are appointed Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites, of the sons of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathite, to overlook; and of the Levites, everyone understanding about instruments of song, 
and over the burden-bearers, and overseers of everyone doing work for every service; and of the Levites are scribes, and officers, and gatekeepers. 
And in their bringing out the money that is brought into the house of YHWH, Hilkiah the priest has found the Scroll of the Law of YHWH by the hand of Moses, 
and Hilkiah answers and says to Shaphan the scribe, “I have found the Scroll of the Law in the house of YHWH”; and Hilkiah gives the scroll to Shaphan, 
and Shaphan brings in the scroll to the king, and brings the king back word again, saying, “All that has been given into the hand of your servants they are doing, 
and they pour out the money that is found in the house of YHWH, and give it into the hand of those appointed and into the hands of those doing the work.” 
And Shaphan the scribe declares it to the king, saying, “Hilkiah the priest has given a scroll to me”; and Shaphan reads in it before the king. 
And it comes to pass, at the king’s hearing the words of the Law, that he tears his garments, 
and the king commands Hilkiah, and Ahikam son of Shaphan, and Abdon son of Micah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah, servant of the king, saying, 
“Go, seek YHWH for me, and for him who is left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the words of the scroll that is found, for great is the fury of YHWH that is poured on us, because that our fathers did not keep the word of YHWH to do according to all that is written on this scroll.” 
And Hilkiah goes, and they of the king, to Huldah the prophetess, wife of Shallum son of Tikvath, son of Hasrah, keeper of the garments, and she is dwelling in Jerusalem in the Second Quarter, and they speak to her thus. 
And she says to them, “Thus said YHWH, God of Israel: Say to the man who has sent you to me, 
Thus said YHWH: Behold, I am bringing in calamity on this place and on its inhabitants, all the execrations that are written on the scroll that they read before the king of Judah, 
because that they have forsaken Me, and make incense to other gods, so as to provoke Me with all the works of their hands, and My fury is poured out on this place, and it is not quenched. 
And to the king of Judah who is sending you to inquire of YHWH, thus you say to him, Thus said YHWH God of Israel, whose words you have heard: 
Because your heart is tender, and you are humbled before God in your hearing His words concerning this place and concerning its inhabitants, and are humbled before Me, and tear your garments, and weep before Me, indeed, I have also heard you—a declaration of YHWH. 
Behold, I am gathering you to your fathers, and you have been gathered to your graves in peace, and your eyes do not look on all the calamity that I am bringing on this place and on its inhabitants”; and they bring the king back word. 
And the king sends and gathers all the elderly of Judah and Jerusalem, 
and the king goes up to the house of YHWH, and to every man of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the priests, and the Levites, even all the people, from great even to small, and he reads in their ears all the words of the scroll of the covenant that is found in the house of YHWH. 
And the king stands on his station, and makes the covenant before YHWH to walk after YHWH, and to keep His commands, and His testimonies, and His statutes, with all his heart and with all his soul, to do the words of the covenant that are written on this scroll. 
And he presents everyone who is found in Jerusalem and Benjamin, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem do according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers. 
And Josiah turns aside all the abominations out of all the lands that the sons of Israel have, and causes everyone who is found in Israel to serve, to serve their God YHWH; all his days they did not turn aside from after YHWH, God of their fathers. 
