1 Chronicles.
Chapter 7.
And sons of Issachar: Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and Shimron—four. 
And sons of Tola: Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of the house of their fathers, even of Tola, mighty men of valor in their generations; their number in the days of David is twenty-two thousand and six hundred. 
And sons of Uzzi: Izrahiah; and sons of Izrahiah: Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, Ishiah, Hamishah—all of them heads. 
And beside them, by their generations, of the house of their fathers, are thirty-six thousand troops of the host of battle, for they multiplied wives and sons; 
and their brothers of all the families of Issachar, mighty men of valor, listed by their genealogy, are eighty-seven thousand for the whole. 
Of Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and Jediael—three. 
And sons of Bela: Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri—five; heads of a house of fathers, mighty men of valor, with their genealogy, twenty-two thousand and thirty-four. 
And sons of Becher: Zemirah, and Joash, and Eliezar, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abijah, and Anathoth, and Alameth. All these are sons of Becher, 
with their genealogy, after their generations, heads of a house of their fathers, mighty men of valor, twenty thousand and two hundred. 
And sons of Jediael: Bilhan; and sons of Bilhan: Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahar. 
All these are sons of Jediael, even heads of the fathers, mighty in valor, seventeen thousand and two hundred going out to the host for battle. 
And Shuppim and Huppim are sons of Ir, and Hushim is the son of Aher. 
Sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, sons of Bilhah. 
Sons of Manasseh: Ashriel, whom Jaladah his Aramean concubine bore, with Machir father of Gilead. 
And Machir took wives for Huppim and for Shuppim, and the name of the first is Maachah, and the name of the second Zelophehad, and Zelophehad has daughters. 
And Maachah wife of Machir bears a son and calls his name Peresh, and the name of his brother is Sheresh, and his sons are Ulam and Rakem. 
And son of Ulam: Bedan. These are sons of Gilead son of Machir, son of Manasseh. 
And his sister Hammolecheth bore Ishhod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah. 
And the sons of Shemida are Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam. 
And sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, and Eladah his son, and Tahath his son, 
and Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead; and men of Gath who are born in the land have slain them because they came down to take their livestock. 
And their father Ephraim mourns many days, and his brothers come to comfort him, 
and he goes in to his wife, and she conceives and bears a son, and he calls his name Beriah, because his house had been in calamity— 
and his daughter is Sherah, and she builds Beth-Horon, the lower and the upper, and Uzzen-Sherah— 
Rephah is his son, and Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son, 
Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son, 
Nun his son, Joshua his son. 
And their possession and their dwellings are Beth-El and its small towns, and Naaran to the east, and Gezer and its small towns to the west, and Shechem and its small towns, as far as Gaza and its small towns; 
and by the parts of the sons of Manasseh are Beth-Shean and its small towns, Taanach and its small towns, Megiddo and its small towns, Dor and its small towns; the sons of Joseph, son of Israel, dwelt in these. 
Son of Asher: Imnah, and Ishve, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and their sister Serah. 
And sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel—he is father of Birzavith. 
And Heber begot Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and their sister Shua. 
And sons of Japhlet: Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath; these are sons of Japhlet. 
And sons of Shamer: Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram. 
And each son of his brother Helem: Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal. 
Sons of Zophah: Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah, 
Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera. 
And sons of Jether: Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara. 
And sons of Ulla: Arah, and Hanniel, and Rezia. 
All these are sons of Asher, heads of the house of the fathers, chosen ones, mighty in valor, heads of the princes, with their genealogy, for the host, for battle, their number is twenty-six thousand men. 
