Judges.
Chapter 3.
And these are the nations which YHWH left, to try Israel by them, all who have not known all the wars of Canaan; 
(only for the sake of the generations of the sons of Israel knowing, to teach them war, only those who formerly have not known them)— 
five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Zidonian, and the Hivite inhabiting Mount Lebanon, from Mount Ba‘al-Hermon to the entering in of Hamath; 
and they are to prove Israel by them, to know whether they obey the commands of YHWH that He commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses. 
And the sons of Israel have dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, 
and take their daughters to them for wives, and have given their daughters to their sons, and they serve their gods; 
and the sons of Israel do evil in the eyes of YHWH, and forget their God YHWH, and serve the Ba‘alim and the Asheroth. 
And the anger of YHWH burns against Israel, and He sells them into the hand of Chushan-Rishathaim king of Aram-Naharaim, and the sons of Israel serve Chushan-Rishathaim eight years; 
and the sons of Israel cry to YHWH, and YHWH raises a savior to the sons of Israel, and he saves them—Othniel son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother; 
and the Spirit of YHWH is on him, and he judges Israel, and goes out to battle, and YHWH gives Chushan-Rishathaim king of Aram into his hand, and his hand is strong against Chushan-Rishathaim; 
and the land rests forty years. And Othniel son of Kenaz dies, 
and the sons of Israel add to do evil in the eyes of YHWH; and YHWH strengthens Eglon king of Moab against Israel, because that they have done evil in the eyes of YHWH; 
and he gathers the sons of Ammon and Amalek to himself, and goes and strikes Israel, and they possess the city of palms; 
and the sons of Israel serve Eglon king of Moab eighteen years. 
And the sons of Israel cry to YHWH, and YHWH raises a savior to them, Ehud son of Gera, a Benjamite (a man with his right hand bound), and the sons of Israel send a present by his hand to Eglon king of Moab; 
and Ehud makes a sword for himself, and it has two mouths (its length is a cubit), and he girds it under his long robe on his right thigh; 
and he brings the present near to Eglon king of Moab, and Eglon is a very fat man. 
And it comes to pass, when he has finished to bring the present near, that he sends the people carrying the present away, 
and he himself has turned back from the carved images which are at Gilgal and says, “I have a secret word for you, O king”; and he says, “Hush!” And all those standing by him go out from him. 
And Ehud has come to him, and he is sitting in the cool upper chamber which he has for himself, and Ehud says, “I have a word of God for you”; and he rises from off the throne; 
and Ehud puts forth his left hand, and takes the sword from off his right thigh, and thrusts it into his belly; 
and the hilt also goes in after the blade, and the fat shuts on the blade, that he has not drawn the sword out of his belly, and he goes out through the antechamber or and the dung came out. 
And Ehud goes out at the porch, and shuts the doors of the upper chamber on him, and has bolted it; 
and he has gone out, and his servants have come in, and look, and behold, the doors of the upper chamber are bolted, and they say, “He is surely covering his feet, relieving himself, in the cool inner chamber.” 
And they stay until confounded, and behold, he is not opening the doors of the upper chamber, and they take the key, and open, and behold, their lord is fallen to the earth—dead. 
And Ehud escaped during their lingering, and has passed by the images, and escapes to Seirath. 
And it comes to pass, in his coming in, that he blows with a horn in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the sons of Israel go down with him from the hill-country, and he before them; 
and he says to them, “Pursue after me, for YHWH has given your enemies, the Moabites, into your hand”; and they go down after him, and capture the passages of the Jordan toward Moab, and have not permitted a man to pass over. 
And they strike Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all robust, and everyone a man of valor, and no man has escaped, 
and Moab is humbled in that day under the hand of Israel; and the land rests for eighty years. 
And after him has been Shamgar son of Anath, and he strikes the Philistines—six hundred men—with an ox-goad, and he also saves Israel. 
