2 Chronicles.
Chapter 32.
After these things and this truth, Sennacherib king of Asshur has come, indeed, he comes to Judah, and encamps against the cities of the bulwarks, and says to break into them himself. 
And Hezekiah sees that Sennacherib has come, and his face is to the battle against Jerusalem, 
and he takes counsel with his heads and his mighty ones, to stop the waters of the fountains that are at the outside of the city—and they help him, 
and many people are gathered, and they stop all the fountains and the brook that is rushing into the midst of the land, saying, “Why do the kings of Asshur come, and have found much water?” 
And he strengthens himself, and builds the whole of the wall that is broken, and causes it to ascend to the towers, and at the outside of the wall builds another, and strengthens Millo in the City of David, and makes darts in abundance, and shields. 
And he puts heads of war over the people, and gathers them to him, to the broad place of a gate of the city, and speaks to their heart, saying, 
“Be strong and courageous, do not be afraid, nor be cast down from the face of the king of Asshur, and from the face of all the multitude that is with him, for with us are more than with him. 
With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is our God YHWH to help us and to fight our battles”; and the people are supported by the words of Hezekiah king of Judah. 
After this Sennacherib king of Asshur has sent his servants to Jerusalem—and he is by Lachish, and all his power with him—against Hezekiah king of Judah and against all Judah who are in Jerusalem, saying, 
“Thus said Sennacherib king of Asshur: On what are you trusting and abiding in the bulwark in Jerusalem? 
Is Hezekiah not persuading you to give you up to die by famine and by thirst, saying, Our God YHWH delivers us from the hand of the king of Asshur? 
Has Hezekiah himself not turned aside His high places and His altars, and speaks to Judah and to Jerusalem, saying, You bow yourselves before one altar and you make incense on it? 
Do you not know what I have done—I and my fathers—to all peoples of the lands? Were the gods of the nations of the lands at all able to deliver their land out of my hand? 
Who among all the gods of these nations whom my fathers have devoted to destruction is he who has been able to deliver his people out of my hand, that your God is able to deliver you out of my hand? 
And now, do not let Hezekiah lift you up, nor persuade you thus, nor give credence to him, for no god of any nation and kingdom is able to deliver his people from my hand and from the hand of my fathers: also, surely your God does not deliver you from my hand!” 
And again his servants have spoken against YHWH God and against His servant Hezekiah, 
and he has written letters to give reproach to YHWH, God of Israel, and to speak against Him, saying, “As the gods of the nations of the lands that have not delivered their people from my hand, so the God of Hezekiah does not deliver His people from my hand.” 
And they call with a great voice in Jewish against the people of Jerusalem who are on the wall, to frighten them and to trouble them, that they may capture the city, 
and they speak against the God of Jerusalem as against the gods of the peoples of the land—work of the hands of man. 
And Hezekiah the king prays, and Isaiah son of Amoz the prophet, concerning this, and they cry to the heavens, 
and YHWH sends a messenger and cuts off every mighty man of valor—both leader and head—in the camp of the king of Asshur, and he turns back with shame of face to his land and enters the house of his god, and those coming out of his bowels have caused him to fall there by the sword. 
And YHWH saves Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib king of Asshur and from the hand of all, and He leads them around; 
and many are bringing in an offering to YHWH, to Jerusalem, and precious things to Hezekiah king of Judah, and he is lifted up before the eyes of all the nations after this. 
In those days Hezekiah has been sick even to death, and he prays to YHWH, and He speaks to him and has appointed a wonder for him; 
and Hezekiah has not returned according to the deed done to him, for his heart has been lofty, and there is wrath on him and on Judah and Jerusalem; 
and Hezekiah is humbled for the loftiness of his heart, he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the wrath of YHWH has not come on them in the days of Hezekiah. 
And Hezekiah has very much riches and honor, and he has made treasures for himself of silver, and of gold, and of precious stone, and of spices, and of shields, and of all kinds of desirable vessels, 
and storehouses for the increase of grain, and new wine, and oil, and stalls for all kinds of livestock, and herds for stalls; 
and he has made cities for himself, and possessions of flocks and herds in abundance, for God has given very much substance to him. 
And Hezekiah himself has stopped the upper source of the waters of Gihon, and directs them beneath to the west of the City of David, and Hezekiah prospers in all his work; 
and so with the ambassadors of the heads of Babylon, those sending to him to inquire of the wonder that has been in the land, God has left him to try him, to know all in his heart. 
And the rest of the matters of Hezekiah and his kind acts, behold, they are written in the vision of Isaiah son of Amoz the prophet, on the scroll of the kings of Judah and Israel. 
And Hezekiah lies with his fathers, and they bury him in the highest of the graves of the sons of David, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem have done honor to him at his death, and his son Manasseh reigns in his stead. 
