Deuteronomy.
Chapter 24.
“When a man takes a wife and has married her, and it has been, if she does not find grace in his eyes (for he has found nakedness in her of anything), then he has written a writing of divorce for her, and given it into her hand, and sent her out of his house; 
when she has gone out of his house, and has gone and been another man’s, 
and the latter man has hated her, and written a writing of divorce for her, and given it into her hand, and sent her out of his house, or when the latter man dies, who has taken her to himself for a wife, 
her former husband who sent her away is not able to return to take her to be to him for a wife, after that she has become defiled; for it is an abomination before YHWH, and you do not cause the land to sin which your God YHWH is giving to you for an inheritance. 
When a man takes a new wife, he does not go out into the host, and one does not pass over to him for anything; he is free at his own house for one year, and his wife, whom he has taken, he has made glad. 
No one takes millstones and rider in pledge, for it is one’s life he is taking in pledge. 
When a man is found stealing a person from his brothers, from the sons of Israel, and has tyrannized over him and sold him, then that thief has died, and you have put away evil out of your midst. 
Take heed in the plague of leprosy, to watch greatly, and to do according to all that the priests, the Levites, teach you; you observe to do as I have commanded them; 
remember that which your God YHWH has done to Miriam in the way, in your coming out of Egypt. 
When you lift up a debt of anything on your brother, you do not go into his house to obtain his pledge; 
you stand at the outside, and the man on whom you are lifting it up is bringing out the pledge to you at the outside. 
And if he is a poor man, you do not lie down with his pledge; 
you certainly give back the pledge to him at the going in of the sun, and he has lain down in his own raiment and has blessed you; and it is righteousness to you before your God YHWH. 
You do not oppress a hired worker, poor and needy, of your brothers or of your sojourner who is in your land within your gates; 
you give his hire in his day, and the sun does not go in on it, for he is poor, and he is supporting his life on it, lest he cries against you to YHWH, and it has been sin in you. 
Fathers are not put to death for sons, and sons are not put to death for fathers—they are each put to death for his own sin. 
You do not turn aside the judgment of a fatherless sojourner, nor take the garment of a widow in pledge; 
and you have remembered that you have been a servant in Egypt, and your God YHWH ransoms you from there; therefore I am commanding you to do this thing. 
When you reap your harvest in your field, and have forgotten a sheaf in a field, you do not return to take it; it is for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow, so that your God YHWH blesses you in all the work of your hands. 
When you beat your olive, you do not examine the branch behind you; it is for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow. 
When you cut your vineyard, you do not glean behind you; it is for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow; 
and you have remembered that you have been a servant in the land of Egypt; therefore I am commanding you to do this thing.” 
