Joshua.
Chapter 17.
And the lot is for the tribe of Manasseh (for he is firstborn of Joseph), for Machir firstborn of Manasseh, father of Gilead, for he has been a man of war, and his are Gilead and Bashan. 
And there is a lot for the sons of Manasseh who are left, for their families; for the sons of Abiezer, and for the sons of Helek, and for the sons of Asriel, and for the sons of Shechem, and for the sons of Hepher, and for the sons of Shemida; these are the children of Manasseh son of Joseph—the males—by their families. 
As for Zelophehad, son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh, he has no children except daughters, and these are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah, 
and they draw near before Eleazar the priest, and before Joshua son of Nun, and before the princes, saying, “YHWH commanded Moses to give an inheritance to us in the midst of our brothers”; and he gives to them, at the command of YHWH, an inheritance in the midst of the brothers of their father. 
And ten portions fall to Manasseh, apart from the land of Gilead and Bashan, which are beyond the Jordan; 
for the daughters of Manasseh have inherited an inheritance in the midst of his sons, and the land of Gilead has been for the sons of Manasseh who are left. 
And the border of Manasseh is from Asher to Michmethah, which is on the front of Shechem, and the border has gone on to the right, to the inhabitants of En-Tappuah. 
The land of Tappuah has been for Manasseh, and Tappuah to the border of Manasseh for the sons of Ephraim. 
And the border has come down to the Brook of Kanah, southward of the brook; these cities of Ephraim are in the midst of the cities of Manasseh, and the border of Manasseh is on the north of the brook, and its outgoings are at the sea. 
Southward is for Ephraim and northward for Manasseh, and the sea is his border, and in Asher they meet on the north, and in Issachar on the east. 
And in Issachar and in Asher, Manasseh has Beth-Shean and its towns, and Ibleam and its towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of En-Dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of Taanach and its towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns—three counties. 
And the sons of Manasseh have not been able to occupy these cities, and the Canaanite is desirous to dwell in this land, 
and it comes to pass, when the sons of Israel have been strong, that they put the Canaanite to forced labor, and have not utterly dispossessed him. 
And the sons of Joseph speak with Joshua, saying, “Why have you given an inheritance to me—one lot and one portion, and I am a numerous people? YHWH has blessed me until now.” 
And Joshua says to them, “If you are a numerous people, go up to the forest for yourself, then you have created a place for yourself there in the land of the Perizzite and of the Rephaim, when Mount Ephraim has been narrow for you.” 
And the sons of Joseph say, “The mountain is not enough for us, and a chariot of iron is with every Canaanite who is dwelling in the land of the valley—to him who is in Beth-Shean and its towns, and to him who is in the Valley of Jezreel.” 
And Joshua speaks to the house of Joseph, to Ephraim and to Manasseh, saying, “You are a numerous people, and have great power; you do not have only one lot, 
because the mountain is yours; because it is a forest—you have created it, and its outgoings have been yours; because you dispossess the Canaanite, though it has chariots of iron—though it is strong.” 
