Matthew.
Chapter 5.
And having seen the multitudes, He went up to the mountain, and He having sat down, His disciples came to Him, 
and having opened His mouth, He was teaching them, saying, 
“Blessed the poor in spirit—because theirs is the kingdom of the heavens. 
Blessed the mourning—because they will be comforted. 
Blessed the meek—because they will inherit the land. 
Blessed those hungering and thirsting for righteousness—because they will be filled. 
Blessed the kind—because they will find kindness. 
Blessed the clean in heart—because they will see God. 
Blessed the peacemakers—because they will be called sons of God. 
Blessed those persecuted for righteousness’ sake—because theirs is the kingdom of the heavens. 
Blessed are you whenever they may reproach you, and may persecute, and may say any evil thing against you falsely for My sake— 
rejoice and be glad, because your reward is great in the heavens, for thus they persecuted the prophets who were before you. 
You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt may lose savor, in what will it be salted? It is good for nothing from now on, except to be cast outside, and to be trodden down by men. 
You are the light of the world, a city set on a mountain is not able to be hid; 
nor do they light a lamp and put it under the measure, but on the lampstand, and it shines to all those in the house; 
so let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works, and may glorify your Father who is in the heavens. 
Do not suppose that I came to throw down the Law or the Prophets—I did not come to throw down, but to fulfill; 
for truly I say to you, until the heaven and the earth may pass away, one iota or one tittle may not pass away from the Law, until all may come to pass. 
Therefore whoever may loose one of these commands—the least—and may teach men so, he will be called least in the kingdom of the heavens, but whoever may do and may teach them, he will be called great in the kingdom of the heavens. 
For I say to you that if your righteousness may not abound above that of the scribes and Pharisees, you may not enter into the kingdom of the heavens. 
You heard that it was said to the ancients: You will not murder, and whoever may murder will be in danger of the judgment; 
but I say to you that everyone who is angry at his brother without cause will be in danger of the judgment, and whoever may say to his brother, Stupid, will be in danger of the Sanhedrin, and whoever may say, Moron, will be in danger of the Gehenna of fire. 
If, therefore, you may bring your gift to the altar, and there may remember that your brother has anything against you, 
leave there your gift before the altar, and go—first be reconciled to your brother, and then having come, bring your gift. 
Be agreeing with your opponent quickly, while you are in the way with him, that the opponent may not deliver you to the judge, and the judge may deliver you to the officer, and you may be cast into prison; 
truly I say to you, you may not come forth from there until you may pay the last penny. 
You heard that it was said to the ancients: You will not commit adultery; 
but I say to you that everyone who is looking on a woman to desire her, already committed adultery with her in his heart. 
But if your right eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out and cast from you, for it is good to you that one of your members may perish, and not your whole body be cast into Gehenna. 
And if your right hand causes you to stumble, cut it off, and cast from you, for it is good to you that one of your members may perish, and not your whole body be cast into Gehenna. 
And it was said that, Whoever may put away his wife, let him give to her a writing of divorce; 
but I say to you that whoever may put away his wife, except for the matter of whoredom, makes her to commit adultery; and whoever may marry her who has been put away commits adultery. 
Again, you heard that it was said to the ancients: You will not swear falsely, but you will pay to the LORD your oaths; 
but I say to you not to swear at all; neither by Heaven, because it is the throne of God, 
nor by the earth, because it is His footstool, nor by Jerusalem, because it is the city of the great King, 
nor may you swear by your head, because you are not able to make one hair white or black; 
but let your word be, Yes, Yes, No, No, and that which is more than these is of the evil one. 
You heard that it was said: Eye for eye, and tooth for tooth; 
but I say to you not to resist the evil, but whoever will slap you on your right cheek, turn to him also the other; 
and whoever is willing to take you to law, and to take your coat—also permit to him the cloak. 
And whoever will impress you one mile, go with him two; 
to him who is asking of you be giving, and him who is willing to borrow from you, you may not turn away. 
You heard that it was said: You will love your neighbor, and will hate your enemy; 
but I say to you, love your enemies, bless those cursing you, do good to those hating you, and pray for those accusing you falsely, and persecuting you, 
that you may be sons of your Father in the heavens, because He causes His sun to rise on evil and good, and He sends rain on righteous and unrighteous. 
For if you may love those loving you, what reward do you have? Do the tax collectors not also do the same? 
And if you may greet your brothers only, what do you do abundant? Do the nations not also do so? 
You will therefore be perfect, as your Father who is in the heavens is perfect.” 
