Exodus.
Chapter 38.
And he makes the altar of burnt-offering of shittim wood; five cubits its length, and five cubits its breadth (square), and three cubits its height; 
and he makes its horns on its four corners; its horns have been of the same; and he overlays it with bronze; 
and he makes all the vessels of the altar, the pots, and the shovels, and the sprinkling-pans, the forks, and the fire-pans; he has made all its vessels of bronze. 
And he makes a bronze grate of network for the altar, under its rim beneath, to its midst; 
and he casts four rings for the four ends of the bronze grate—places for bars; 
and he makes the poles of shittim wood, and overlays them with bronze; 
and he brings in the poles into the rings on the sides of the altar, to carry it with them; he made it hollow with boards. 
And he makes the laver of bronze, and its base of bronze, with the mirrors of the women assembling, who have assembled at the opening of the Tent of Meeting. 
And he makes the court: at the south side southward, the hangings of the court of twined linen, one hundred by the cubit, 
their pillars are twenty, and their bronze sockets twenty, the pegs of the pillars and their fillets are silver; 
and at the north side, one hundred by the cubit, their pillars are twenty, and their sockets of bronze twenty; the pegs of the pillars and their fillets are silver; 
and at the west side are hangings, fifty by the cubit; their pillars are ten, and their sockets ten; the pegs of the pillars and their fillets are silver; 
and at the east side eastward, fifty cubits. 
The hangings on the side are fifteen cubits, their pillars three, and their sockets three, 
and at the second side at the gate of the court, on this side and on that side—hangings of fifteen cubits, their pillars three, and their sockets three; 
all the hangings of the court around are of twined linen, 
and the sockets for the pillars of bronze, the pegs of the pillars and their fillets of silver, and the overlaying of their tops of silver, and all the pillars of the court are filleted with silver. 
And the covering of the gate of the court is the work of an embroiderer, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen; and twenty cubits is the length, and the height with the breadth is five cubits, corresponding to the hangings of the court; 
and their pillars are four, and their sockets of bronze four, their pegs are of silver, and the overlaying of their tops and their fillets are of silver; 
and all the pins for the Dwelling Place, and for the court all around, are of bronze. 
These are the numberings of the Dwelling Place (the Dwelling Place of Testimony), which has been numbered by the command of Moses, the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar son of Aaron the priest. 
And Bezaleel son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, has made all that YHWH commanded Moses; 
and with him is Aholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, and designer and embroiderer in blue, and in purple, and in scarlet, and in linen. 
All the gold which is prepared for the work in all the work of the holy place (and it is the gold of the wave-offering) is twenty-nine talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, by the shekel of the holy place. 
And the silver of those numbered of the congregation is one hundred talents, and one thousand and seven hundred and seventy-five shekels, by the shekel of the holy place; 
a bekah for the counted head (half a shekel, by the shekel of the holy place), for everyone who is passing over to those numbered, from a son of twenty years and upwards, for six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty. 
And one hundred talents of silver are for casting the sockets of the holy place, and the sockets of the veil; one hundred sockets for the hundred talents, a talent for a socket; 
and from the one thousand and seven hundred and seventy-five shekels he has made pegs for the pillars, and overlaid their tops, and filleted them. 
And the bronze of the wave-offering is seventy talents, and two thousand and four hundred shekels; 
and he makes with it the sockets of the opening of the Tent of Meeting, and the bronze altar, and the bronze grate which it has, and all the vessels of the altar, 
and the sockets of the court all around, and the sockets of the gate of the court, and all the pins of the Dwelling Place, and all the pins of the court all around. 
