Leviticus.
Chapter 24.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Command the sons of Israel, and they bring pure oil of beaten olive to you for the lamp, to cause a light to go up continually; 
Aaron arranges it at the outside of the veil of the Testimony, in the Tent of Meeting, from evening until morning before YHWH continually—a continuous statute throughout your generations; 
he arranges the lights on the pure lampstand before YHWH continually. 
And you have taken flour, and have baked twelve cakes with it, two-tenth parts are in one cake, 
and you have set them in two rows (six in the row) on the pure table before YHWH, 
and you have put pure frankincense on the row, and it has been with the bread for a memorial, a fire-offering to YHWH. 
On each Sabbath day he arranges it before YHWH continually, from the sons of Israel—a perpetual covenant; 
and it has been for Aaron and for his sons, and they have eaten it in the holy place, for it is most holy to him, from the fire-offerings of YHWH—a continuous statute.” 
And a son of an Israeli woman goes out (and he is son of an Egyptian man) in the midst of the sons of Israel, and the son of the Israeli woman and a man of Israel strive in the camp, 
and the son of the Israeli woman execrates the Name and reviles; and they bring him to Moses; and his mother’s name is Shelomith daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan; 
and he causes him to rest in confinement —to explain to them by the mouth of YHWH. 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Bring out the reviler to the outside of the camp; and all those hearing have laid their hands on his head, and all the congregation has stoned him. 
And you speak to the sons of Israel, saying, When any man reviles his God—then he has borne his sin; 
and he who is execrating the Name of YHWH is certainly put to death; all the congregation certainly casts stones at him; as a sojourner so a native, in his execrating the Name, he is put to death. 
And when a man strikes any soul of man, he is certainly put to death. 
And he who strikes a beast repays it, body for body. 
And when a man puts a blemish in his fellow, as he has done so it is done to him; 
breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he puts a blemish in a man so it is done in him. 
And he who strikes a beast repays it, and he who strikes the life of man is put to death. 
One judgment is for you; as a sojourner so is a native; for I am your God YHWH.” 
And Moses speaks to the sons of Israel, and they bring out the reviler to the outside of the camp, and stone him with stone; and the sons of Israel have done as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
