Genesis.
Chapter 8.
And God remembers Noah, and every living thing, and all the livestock which are with him in the Ark, and God causes a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters subside, 
and the fountains of the deep and the network of the heavens are closed, and the shower is restrained from the heavens. 
And the waters return from off the earth, going on and returning; and the waters are lacking at the end of one hundred and fifty days. 
And the Ark rests, in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on mountains of Ararat; 
and the waters have been going and decreasing until the tenth month; in the tenth month, on the first of the month, the heads of the mountains appeared. 
And it comes to pass, at the end of forty days, that Noah opens the window of the Ark which he made, 
and he sends forth the raven, and it goes out, going out and turning back until the drying of the waters from off the earth. 
And he sends forth the dove from him to see whether the waters have been lightened from off the face of the ground, 
and the dove has not found rest for the sole of her foot, and she turns back to him, to the Ark, for waters are on the face of all the earth, and he puts out his hand, and takes her, and brings her in to him, into the Ark. 
And he stays yet seven more days, and adds to send forth the dove from the Ark; 
and the dove comes to him at evening, and behold, an olive leaf is torn off in her mouth; and Noah knows that the waters have been lightened from off the earth. 
And he stays yet seven more days, and sends forth the dove, and it did not add to return to him anymore. 
And it comes to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first month, on the first of the month, the waters have been dried from off the earth; and Noah turns aside the covering of the Ark, and looks, and behold, the face of the ground has been dried. 
And in the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth has become dry. 
And God speaks to Noah, saying, “Go out from the Ark, you, and your wife, and your sons, and your sons’ wives with you; 
every living thing that is with you, of all flesh, among bird, and among livestock, and among every creeping thing which is creeping on the earth, bring out with you; 
and they have teemed in the earth, and been fruitful, and have multiplied on the earth.” 
And Noah goes out, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him; 
every beast, every creeping thing, and every bird; every creeping thing on the earth, after their families, have gone out from the Ark. 
And Noah builds an altar to YHWH, and takes from every clean beast and from every clean bird, and causes burnt-offerings to ascend on the altar; 
and YHWH smells the refreshing fragrance, and YHWH says to His heart, “I do not continue to disfavor the ground because of man anymore, though the imagination of the heart of man is evil from his youth; and I do not continue to strike all living anymore, as I have done; 
during all the days of the earth, seed-time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night never cease.” 
