2 Corinthians.
Chapter 6.
And also working together we call on you that you do not receive the grace of God in vain— 
for He says, “In an acceptable time I heard you, and in a day of salvation I helped you, behold, now is a well-accepted time; behold, now, a day of salvation.” 
In nothing giving any cause of offense, that the ministry may not be blamed, 
but in everything recommending ourselves as God’s servants; in much patience, in tribulations, in necessities, in distresses, 
in stripes, in imprisonments, in insurrections, in labors, in watchings, in fastings, 
in pureness, in knowledge, in long-suffering, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in unhypocritical love, 
in the word of truth, in the power of God, through the armor of righteousness, on the right and on the left, 
through glory and dishonor, through evil report and good report, as leading astray, and true; 
as unknown, and recognized; as dying, and behold, we live; as disciplined, and not put to death; 
as sorrowful, and always rejoicing; as poor, and making many rich; as having nothing, and possessing all things. 
Our mouth has been open to you, O Corinthians, our heart has been enlarged! 
You are not restricted in us, and you are restricted in your own yearnings, 
and as a repayment of the same kind (as to children I say it), be enlarged—also you! 
Do not become yoked with others—unbelievers, for what partaking is there to righteousness and lawlessness? 
And what fellowship to light with darkness? And what concord to Christ with Belial? Or what part to a believer with an unbeliever? 
And what agreement to the temple of God with idols? For you are a temple of the living God, according as God said, “I will dwell in them, and will walk among them, and I will be their God, and they will be My people, 
for this reason, come forth out of the midst of them, and be separated, says the LORD, and do not touch an unclean thing, and I will receive you, 
and I will be for a Father to you, and you will be sons and daughters to Me, says the LORD Almighty.” 
