Ezekiel.
Chapter 10.
And I look, and behold, on the expanse that is above the head of the cherubim, as a sapphire stone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne, He has been seen over them. 
And He speaks to the man clothed with linen and says, “Go into the midst of the wheel, to the place of the cherub, and fill your hands with coals of fire from between the cherubim, and scatter over the city.” And he goes in before my eyes. 
And the cherubim are standing on the right side of the house, at the going in of the man, and the cloud has filled the inner court, 
and the glory of YHWH becomes high above the cherub, over the threshold of the house, and the house is filled with the cloud, and the court has been filled with the brightness of the glory of YHWH. 
And a noise of the wings of the cherubim has been heard in the outer court, as the voice of God—the Mighty One—in His speaking. 
And it comes to pass, in His commanding the man clothed with linen, saying, “Take fire from between the wheel, from between the cherubim,” and he goes in and stands near the wheel, 
that the one cherub puts forth his hand from between the cherubim to the fire that is between the cherubim, and lifts up, and gives it into the hands of him who is clothed with linen, and he receives, and comes forth. 
And there appears in the cherubim the form of a hand of man under their wings, 
and I look, and behold, four wheels near the cherubim, one wheel near one cherub, and another wheel near the other cherub, and the appearance of the wheels is as the color of a beryl stone. 
And as for their appearances, the four had one likeness, as it were the wheel in the midst of the wheel. 
In their going, they go on their four sides; they do not turn around in their going, for to the place to where the head turns, they go after it, they do not turn around in their going. 
And all their flesh, and their backs, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheels, are full of eyes all around—the wheels the four had. 
As for the wheels—they were called “Whirling Wheel” in my ears. 
And four faces are to each; the face of the first is the face of the cherub, and the face of the second is the face of man, and of the third the face of a lion, and of the fourth the face of an eagle. 
And the cherubim are lifted up, it is the living creature that I saw by the river Chebar. 
And in the going of the cherubim, the wheels go beside them; and in the cherubim lifting up their wings to be high above the earth, the wheels do not turn around, even they, from being beside them. 
In their standing they stand, and in their exaltation they are exalted with them: for the spirit of the living creature is in them. 
And the glory of YHWH goes forth from off the threshold of the house, and stands over the cherubim, 
and the cherubim lift up their wings, and are lifted up from the earth before my eyes; in their going forth, the wheels are also alongside them, and he stands at the opening of the east gate of the house of YHWH, and the glory of the God of Israel is over them from above. 
It is the living creature that I saw under the God of Israel by the river Chebar, and I know that they are cherubim. 
The four—each had four faces, and each had four wings, and the likeness of the hands of man is under their wings. 
And the likeness of their faces, they are the faces that I saw by the river Chebar, their appearances and themselves; they each go straight forward. 
