1 Corinthians.
Chapter 4.
Let a man so reckon us as officers of Christ, and stewards of the secrets of God, 
and as to the rest, it is required in the stewards that one may be found faithful, 
and to me it is for a very little thing that by you I may be judged, or by man’s Day, but I do not even judge myself, 
for I have been conscious of nothing for myself, but I have not been declared right in this—and He who is discerning me is the LORD: 
so, then, judge nothing before the time, until the LORD may come, who will both bring to light the hidden things of the darkness, and will reveal the counsels of the hearts, and then the praise will come to each from God. 
And these things, brothers, I transferred to myself and to Apollos because of you, that in us you may learn not to think above that which has been written, that you may not be puffed up one for one against the other, 
for who makes you to differ? And what do you have, that you did not receive? And if you also received, why do you glory as not having received? 
Already you are having been filled, already you were rich, apart from us you reigned, and I also wish you reigned, that we also may reign together with you, 
for I think that God set forth us the apostles last—as appointed to death, because we became a spectacle to the world, and messengers, and men; 
we are fools because of Christ, and you wise in Christ; we are ailing, and you strong; you glorious, and we dishonored; 
to the present hour we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are battered, and wander, 
and labor, working with our own hands; being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we endure; 
being spoken evil of, we plead; we became as filth of the world—of all things an outcast—until now. 
Not as putting you to shame do I write these things, but I admonish as my beloved children, 
for if a myriad of child-conductors you may have in Christ, yet not many fathers; for in Christ Jesus, through the good news, I begot you; 
I call on you, therefore, become followers of me; 
because of this I sent to you Timotheus, who is my child, beloved and faithful in the LORD, who will remind you of my ways in Christ, according as everywhere in every assembly I teach. 
And some were puffed up as if I were not coming to you; 
but I will come quickly to you, if the LORD may will, and I will not know the word of those puffed up, but the power; 
for not in word is the Kingdom of God, but in power. 
What do you wish? Will I come to you with a rod, or in love, also with a spirit of meekness? 
