Matthew.
Chapter 3.
And in those days John the Immerser comes, proclaiming in the wilderness of Judea, 
and saying, “Convert, for the kingdom of the heavens has come near,” 
for this is he having been spoken of by Isaiah the prophet, saying, “A voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the LORD, || Make His paths straight.” 
And this John had his clothing of camel’s hair, and a girdle of skin around his loins, and his nourishment was locusts and honey of the field. 
Then were going forth to him Jerusalem, and all Judea, and all the region around the Jordan, 
and they were immersed in the Jordan by him, confessing their sins. 
And having seen many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming about his immersion, he said to them, “Brood of vipers! Who showed you to flee from the coming wrath? 
Bear, therefore, fruits worthy of conversion, 
and do not think to say in yourselves, We have a father—Abraham, for I say to you that God is able to raise children to Abraham out of these stones, 
and now also, the axe is laid to the root of the trees, therefore, every tree not bearing good fruit is cut down, and is cast into fire. 
I indeed immerse you in water for conversion, but He who is coming after me is mightier than I, of whom I am not worthy to carry the sandals, He will immerse you in the Holy Spirit and fire, 
whose fan is in His hand, and He will thoroughly cleanse His floor, and will gather His wheat into the storehouse, but He will burn the chaff with unquenchable fire.” 
Then Jesus comes from Galilee to John at the Jordan, to be immersed by him, 
but John was forbidding Him, saying, “I have need to be immersed by You—and You come to me?” 
But Jesus answering said to him, “Permit it now, for thus it is fitting to us to fulfill all righteousness,” then he permits Him. 
And having been immersed, Jesus immediately went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened to Him, and He saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove, and coming on Him, 
and behold, a voice out of the heavens, saying, “This is My Son, the Beloved, in whom I delighted.” 
