Genesis.
Chapter 14.
And it comes to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations, 
they have made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar. 
All these have been joined together to the Valley of Siddim, which is the Salt Sea; 
for twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and the thirteenth year they rebelled. 
And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings who are with him, and they strike the Rephaim in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the Zuzim in Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh Kiriathaim, 
and the Horites in their Mount Seir, to El-Paran, which is by the wilderness; 
and they turn back and come to En-Mishpat, which is Kadesh, and strike the whole field of the Amalekite, and also the Amorite who is dwelling in Hazezon-Tamar. 
And the king of Sodom goes out, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar; and they set in array for battle with them in the Valley of Siddim, 
with Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings with the five. 
And the Valley of Siddim is full of bitumen-pits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah flee, and fall there, and those left have fled to the mountain. 
And they take the whole substance of Sodom and Gomorrah, and the whole of their food, and go away; 
and they take Lot, Abram’s brother’s son (seeing he is dwelling in Sodom), and his substance, and go away. 
And one who is escaping comes and declares to Abram the Hebrew, and he is dwelling among the oaks of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner, and they are Abram’s allies. 
And Abram hears that his brother has been taken captive, and he draws out his trained servants, three hundred and eighteen, and pursues to Dan. 
And he divides himself against them by night, he and his servants, and strikes them, and pursues them to Hobah, which is at the left of Damascus; 
and he brings back the whole of the substance, and he has also brought back his brother Lot and his substance, and also the women and the people. 
And the king of Sodom goes out to meet him (after his turning back from the striking of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings who are with him), to the Valley of Shaveh, which is the king’s valley. 
And Melchizedek king of Salem has brought out bread and wine, and he is priest of God Most High; 
and he blesses him and says, “Blessed is Abram to God Most High, possessing the heavens and earth; 
and blessed is God Most High, who has delivered your adversaries into your hand”; and he gives to him a tenth of all. 
And the king of Sodom says to Abram, “Give to me the persons, and take the substance to yourself,” 
and Abram says to the king of Sodom, “I have lifted up my hand to YHWH, God Most High, possessing the heavens and earth— 
from a thread even to a shoe-strap I do not take of anything which you have, that you do not say, I have made Abram rich; 
save only that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men who have gone with me—Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre—they take their portion.” 
