Hebrews.
Chapter 13.
Let brotherly love remain. 
Do not be forgetful of hospitality, for through this some entertained messengers unaware. 
Be mindful of those in bonds, as having been bound with them, of those maltreated, as yourselves also being in the body. 
The marriage is to be honored by all, and the bed undefiled, for God will judge whoremongers and adulterers. 
Be without covetous behavior, being content with the things present, for He has said, “No, I will not leave, no, nor forsake you,” 
so that we boldly say, “The LORD is to me a helper, and I will not fear what man will do to me.” 
Be mindful of those leading you, who spoke to you the word of God, who, considering the outcome of their behavior, imitate their faith: 
Jesus Christ—the same yesterday and today and for all ages. 
Do not be carried away with strange and manifold teachings, for it is good that by grace the heart is confirmed, not with meats, in which they who were occupied were not profited; 
we have an altar from which they who are serving the Dwelling Place have no authority to eat, 
for of those beasts whose blood is brought for sin into the holy places through the chief priest—of these the bodies are burned outside the camp. 
For this reason, also Jesus—that He might sanctify the people through His own blood—suffered outside the gate; 
now then, may we go forth to Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach; 
for we have no abiding city here, but we seek the coming one. 
Through Him, then, we may always offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips, giving thanks to His Name. 
And do not be forgetful of doing good and of fellowship, for God is well-pleased with such sacrifices. 
Be obedient to those leading you, and be subject, for these watch for your souls, as about to give account, that they may do this with joy, and not sighing, for this is unprofitable to you. 
Pray for us, for we trust that we have a good conscience, willing to behave well in all things, 
and I call on you to do this more abundantly, that I may be restored to you more quickly. 
And the God of peace, who brought up the Great Shepherd of the sheep out of the dead—by the blood of a perpetual covenant—our Lord Jesus, 
make you perfect in every good work to do His will, doing in you that which is well-pleasing before Him, through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory through the ages of the ages! Amen. 
And I beg you, brothers, endure the word of the exhortation, for I have also written to you through few words. 
Know that the brother Timotheus is released, with whom I will see you, if he may come more shortly. 
Greet all those leading you, and all the holy ones. Those from Italy greet you. 
The grace is with you all! Amen.
