Nehemiah.
Chapter 3.
And Eliashib the high priest rises, and his brothers the priests, and they build the Sheep Gate; they have sanctified it, and set up its doors, even to the Tower of Meah they have sanctified it, to the Tower of Hananeel; 
and by his hand men of Jericho have built; and by their hand Zaccur son of Imri has built; 
and sons of Hassenaah have built the Fish Gate; they have walled it, and set up its doors, its locks, and its bars. 
And by their hand Merimoth son of Urijah, son of Koz, has strengthened; and by his hand Meshullam son of Berechiah, son of Meshezabeel, has strengthened; and by his hand Zadok son of Baana has strengthened; 
and by his hand the Tekoites have strengthened, and their majestic ones have not brought in their neck to the service of their Lord. 
And Jehoiada son of Paseah and Meshullam son of Besodeiah have strengthened the Old Gate; they have walled it, and set up its doors, and its locks, and its bars. 
And by their hand Melatiah the Gibeonite has strengthened, and Jadon the Meronothite, men of Gibeon and of Mizpah, belonging to the throne of the governor beyond the River. 
By his hand Uzziel son of Harhaiah of the refiners has strengthened; and by his hand Hananiah son of one of the compounders has strengthened; and they leave Jerusalem to the broad wall. 
And by their hand Rephaiah son of Hur, head of the half of the district of Jerusalem, has strengthened. 
And by their hand Jedaiah son of Harumaph has strengthened, and opposite his own house; and by his hand Hattush son of Hashabniah has strengthened. 
A second measure Malchijah son of Harim has strengthened, and Hashub son of Pahath-Moab, even the Tower of the Furnaces. 
And by his hand Shallum son of Halohesh, head of the half of the district of Jerusalem, has strengthened, he and his daughters. 
Hanun has strengthened the Valley Gate, and the inhabitants of Zanoah; they have built it, and set up its doors, its locks, and its bars, and one thousand cubits in the wall to the Refuse Gate. 
And Malchijah son of Rechab, head of the district of Beth-Haccerem, has strengthened the Refuse Gate; he builds it, and sets up its doors, its locks, and its bars. 
And Shallum son of Col-Hozeh, head of the district of Mizpah, has strengthened the Fountain Gate: he builds it, and covers it, and sets up its doors, its locks, and its bars, and the wall of the pool of Siloah, to the garden of the king, and to the steps that are going down from the City of David. 
After him Nehemiah son of Azbuk, head of the half of the district of Beth-Zur, has strengthened to opposite the graves of David, and to the pool that is made, and to the house of the mighty ones. 
After him the Levites have strengthened, and Rehum son of Bani; by his hand Hashabiah, head of the half of the district of Keilah, has strengthened for his district. 
After him their brothers have strengthened, and Bavvai son of Henadad, head of the half of the district of Keilah. 
And Ezer son of Jeshua, head of Mizpah, strengthens, by his hand, a second measure, from in front of the ascent of the armory at the angle. 
After him Baruch son of Zabbai has hurried to strengthen a second measure from the angle to the opening of the house of Eliashib the high priest. 
After him Meremoth son of Urijah, son of Koz, has strengthened a second measure, from the opening of the house of Eliashib even to the completion of the house of Eliashib. 
And after him the priests, men of the circuit, have strengthened. 
After them Benjamin has strengthened, and Hashub, opposite their house; after him Azariah son of Maaseiah, son of Ananiah, has strengthened near his house. 
After him Binnui son of Henadad has strengthened a second measure, from the house of Azariah to the angle, and to the corner. 
Palal son of Uzai strengthened from opposite the angle, and the tower that is going out from the upper house of the king that is at the court of the prison; after him Pedaiah son of Parosh strengthened. 
And the Nethinim have been dwelling in Ophel, to opposite the Water Gate at the east, and the tower that goes out. 
After him the Tekoites have strengthened a second measure, from opposite the great tower that goes out, and to the wall of Ophel. 
From above the Horse Gate the priests have strengthened, each opposite his house. 
After them Zadok son of Immer has strengthened opposite his house; and after him Shemaiah son of Shechaniah, keeper of the East Gate, has strengthened. 
After him Hananiah son of Shelemiah has strengthened, and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph, a second measure; after him Meshullam son of Berechiah has strengthened opposite his chamber. 
After him Malchijah son of the refiner has strengthened, to the house of the Nethinim, and of the merchants, opposite the Miphkad Gate, and to the ascent of the corner. 
And between the ascent of the corner and the Sheep Gate, the refiners and the merchants have strengthened. 
