2 Timothy.
Chapter 4.
I fully testify, then, before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who is about to judge the living and dead at His appearing and His Kingdom— 
preach the word; be earnest in season, out of season; convict, rebuke, exhort, in all long-suffering and teaching, 
for there will be a season when they will not endure the sound teaching, but they will heap up teachers according to their own desires—having an itching ear, 
and, indeed, they will turn away from hearing the truth, and they will be turned aside to the fables. 
But you—watch in all things; suffer evil; do the work of one proclaiming good news; make full assurance of your ministry, 
for I am already being poured out, and the time of my release has arrived; 
I have striven the good strife, I have finished the course, I have kept the faith; 
from now on there is laid up for me the garland of righteousness that the LORD—the Righteous Judge—will give to me in that day, and not only to me, but also to all those loving His appearing. 
Be diligent to come to me quickly, 
for Demas forsook me, having loved the present age, and went on to Thessalonica, Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia; 
only Lucas is with me; having taken Mark, bring him with you, for he is profitable to me for ministry; 
and I sent Tychicus to Ephesus; 
coming, bring the cloak that I left in Troas with Carpus and the scrolls—especially the parchments. 
Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil; may the LORD repay to him according to his works, 
of whom you also beware, for he has greatly stood against our words; 
no one stood with me in my first defense, but all forsook me (may it not be reckoned to them), 
but the LORD stood by me, and strengthened me, that the preaching might be fully assured through me, and all the nations might hear, and I was freed out of the mouth of a lion, 
and the LORD will free me from every evil work, and will save me—to His heavenly kingdom; to whom is the glory through the ages of the ages! Amen. 
Greet Prisca and Aquilas, and Onesiphorus’ household; 
Erastus remained in Corinth, and I left Trophimus ailing in Miletus; 
be diligent to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brothers. 
The Lord Jesus Christ is with your spirit. The grace is with you! Amen.
