1 Chronicles.
Chapter 2.
These are sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun, 
Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
Sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, three have been born to him of a daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er, firstborn of Judah, is evil in the eyes of YHWH, and He puts him to death. 
And his daughter-in-law Tamar has borne Perez and Zerah to him. All the sons of Judah are five. 
Sons of Perez: Hezron, and Hamul. 
And sons of Zerah: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara; all of them five. 
And sons of Carmi: Achar, troubler of Israel, who trespassed in the devoted thing. 
And sons of Ethan: Azariah. 
And sons of Hezron who were born to him: Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai. 
And Ram begot Amminadab, and Amminadab begot Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah; 
and Nahshon begot Salma, and Salma begot Boaz, 
and Boaz begot Obed, and Obed begot Jesse; 
and Jesse begot his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimea the third, 
Nethaneel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, 
Ozem the sixth, David the seventh, 
and their sisters Zeruiah and Abigail. And sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, and Joab, and Asah-El—three. 
And Abigail has borne Amasa, and the father of Amasa is Jether the Ishmaelite. 
And Caleb son of Hezron has begotten Azubah, Isshah, and Jerioth; and these are her sons: Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon. 
And Azubah dies, and Caleb takes Ephrath to himself, and she bears Hur to him. 
And Hur begot Uri, and Uri begot Bezaleel. 
And afterward Hezron has gone in to a daughter of Machir father of Gilead, and he has taken her, and he is a son of sixty years, and she bears Segub to him. 
And Segub begot Jair, and he has twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead, 
and he takes Geshur and Aram, the small villages of Jair, from them, with Kenath and its small towns, sixty cities—all these belonged to the sons of Machir father of Gilead. 
And after the death of Hezron in Caleb-Ephratah, then the wife of Hezron, Abijah, even bears to him Asshur, father of Tekoa. 
And sons of Jerahmeel, firstborn of Hezron, are: the firstborn Ram, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, Ahijah. 
And Jerahmeel has another wife, and her name is Atarah, she is mother of Onam. 
And sons of Ram, firstborn of Jerahmeel, are Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker. 
And sons of Onam are Shammai and Jada. And sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur. 
And the name of the wife of Abishur is Abihail, and she bears Ahban and Molid to him. 
And sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim; and Seled dies without sons. 
And sons of Appaim: Ishi. And sons of Ishi: Sheshan. And sons of Sheshan: Ahlai. 
And sons of Jada, brother of Shammai: Jether and Jonathan; and Jether dies without sons. 
And sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were sons of Jerahmeel. 
And Sheshan had no sons, but daughters, and Sheshan has a servant, an Egyptian, and his name is Jarha, 
and Sheshan gives his daughter to his servant Jarha for a wife, and she bears Attai to him; 
and Attai begot Nathan, and Nathan begot Zabad, 
and Zabad begot Ephlal, and Ephlal begot Obed, 
and Obed begot Jehu, 
and Jehu begot Azariah, and Azariah begot Helez, and Helez begot Eleasah, 
and Eleasah begot Sismai, and Sismai begot Shallum, 
and Shallum begot Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begot Elishama. 
And sons of Caleb brother of Jerahmeel: Mesha his firstborn, he is father of Ziph; and sons of Mareshah: Abi-Hebron. 
And sons of Hebron: Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema. 
And Shema begot Raham father of Jorkoam, and Rekem begot Shammai. 
And a son of Shammai is Maon, and Maon is father of Beth-Zur. 
And Ephah concubine of Caleb bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez; and Haran begot Gazez. 
And sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jotham, and Geshem, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph. 
The concubine of Caleb, Maachah, bore Sheber and Tirhanah; 
and she bears Shaaph father of Madmannah, Sheva father of Machbenah, and father of Gibea; and a daughter of Caleb is Achsa. 
These were sons of Caleb son of Hur, firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal father of Kirjath-Jearim, 
Salma father of Beth-Lehem, Hareph father of Beth-Gader. 
And there are sons to Shobal father of Kirjath-Jearim: Haroeh, half of the Menuhothite; 
and the families of Kirjath-Jearim: the Ithrite, and the Puhite, and the Shumathite, and the Mishraite. The Zorathite and the Eshtaolite went out from these. 
Sons of Salma: Beth-Lehem, and the Netophathite, Atroth, Beth-Joab, and half of the Menuhothite, the Zorite; 
and the families of the scribes, the inhabitants of Jabez: Tirathites, Shimeathites, Suchathites. They are the Kenites, those coming of Hammath father of the house of Rechab. 
