1 Chronicles.
Chapter 17.
And it comes to pass as David sat in his house, that David says to Nathan the prophet, “Behold, I am dwelling in a house of cedars, and the Ark of the Covenant of YHWH is under curtains”; 
and Nathan says to David, “All that is in your heart do, for God is with you.” 
And it comes to pass on that night that a word of God is to Nathan, saying, 
“Go, and you have said to My servant David, Thus said YHWH: You do not build for Me the house to dwell in. 
For I have not dwelt in a house from the day that I brought up Israel until this day, and I am going from tent to tent, and from the Dwelling Place. 
Wherever I have walked up and down among all Israel, have I spoken a word with one of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to feed My people, saying, Why have you not built a house of cedars for Me? 
And now, thus you say to My servant, to David, Thus said YHWH of Hosts: I have taken you from the habitation, from after the sheep, to be leader over My people Israel, 
and I am with you wherever you have walked, and I cut off all your enemies from your presence, and have made a name for you like the name of the great ones who are in the earth. 
And I have prepared a place for My people Israel, and planted it, and it has dwelt in its place, and is not troubled anymore, and the sons of perverseness do not add to wear it out as at first, 
indeed, even from the days that I appointed judges over My people Israel. And I have humbled all your enemies, and I declare to you that YHWH builds a house for you. 
And it has come to pass, when your days have been fulfilled to go with your fathers, that I have raised up your seed after you, who is of your sons, and I have established his kingdom; 
he builds a house for Me, and I have established his throne for all time; 
I am to him for a father, and he is to Me for a son, and I do not turn aside My kindness from him as I turned it aside from him who was before you, 
and I have established him in My house, and in My kingdom for all time, and his throne is established for all time.” 
According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so spoke Nathan to David. 
And David the king comes in and sits before YHWH, and says, “Who am I, O YHWH God, and what is my house, that You have brought me here? 
And this is small in Your eyes, O God, and You speak concerning the house of Your servant far off, and have seen me as a type of the man who is on high, O YHWH God! 
What more does David add to You for the honor of Your servant; and You have known Your servant. 
O YHWH, for Your servant’s sake, and according to Your own heart You have done all this greatness, to make known all these great things. 
O YHWH, there is none like You, and there is no god except You, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 
And who is as Your people Israel, one nation in the earth whom God has gone to ransom to Himself for a people, to make a great and fearful name for Yourself, to cast out nations from the presence of Your people whom You have ransomed out of Egypt? 
Indeed, You appoint Your people Israel to Yourself for a people for all time, and You, O YHWH, have been to them for God. 
And now, O YHWH, let the word that You have spoken concerning Your servant, and concerning his house, be steadfast for all time, and do as You have spoken; 
and let it be steadfast, and Your Name is great for all time, saying, YHWH of Hosts, God of Israel, is God to Israel, and the house of Your servant David is established before You; 
for You, O my God, have uncovered the ear of Your servant—to build a house for him, therefore Your servant has found desire to pray before You. 
And now, YHWH, You are God Himself, and You speak this goodness concerning Your servant; 
and now, You have been pleased to bless the house of Your servant, to be before You for all time; for You, O YHWH, have blessed, and it is blessed for all time.” 
