1 Chronicles.
Chapter 27.
And the sons of Israel, after their number, heads of the fathers, and princes of the thousands and of the hundreds, and their officers, those serving the king in any matter of the divisions, that are coming in and going out month by month throughout all months of the year, are twenty-four thousand in each division. 
Over the first division for the first month is Jashobeam son of Zabdiel, and twenty-four thousand are on his division; 
he was of the sons of Perez, and the head of all princes of the hosts for the first month. 
And over the division of the second month is Dodai the Ahohite, and Mikloth is also president of his division, and twenty-four thousand are on his division. 
Head of the third host, for the third month, is Benaiah son of Jehoiada, the head priest, and twenty-four thousand are on his division. 
This Benaiah is a mighty one of the thirty, and over the thirty, and his son Ammizabad is in his division. 
The fourth, for the fourth month, is Asahel brother of Joab, and his son Zebadiah after him, and twenty-four thousand are on his division. 
The fifth, for the fifth month, is the prince Shamhuth the Izrahite, and twenty-four thousand are on his division. 
The sixth, for the sixth month, is Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, and twenty-four thousand are on his division. 
The seventh, for the seventh month, is Helez the Pelonite, of the sons of Ephraim, and twenty-four thousand are on his division. 
The eighth, for the eighth month, is Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahite, and twenty-four thousand are on his division. 
The ninth, for the ninth month, is Abiezer the Antothite, of the Benjamite, and twenty-four thousand are on his division. 
The tenth, for the tenth month, is Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zerahite, and twenty-four thousand are on his division. 
Eleventh, for the eleventh month, is Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the sons of Ephraim, and twenty-four thousand are on his division. 
The twelfth, for the twelfth month, is Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel, and twenty-four thousand are on his division. 
And over the tribes of Israel: the leader of the Reubenite is Eliezer son of Zichri; of the Simeonite, Shephatiah son of Maachah; 
of the Levite, Hashabiah son of Kemuel; of the Aaronite, Zadok; 
of Judah, Elihu, of the brothers of David; of Issachar, Omri son of Michael; 
of Zebulun, Ishmaiah son of Obadiah; of Naphtali, Jerimoth son of Azriel; 
of the sons of Ephraim, Hoshea son of Azaziah; of the half of the tribe of Manasseh, Joel son of Pedaiah; 
of the half of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo son of Zechariah; of Benjamin, Jaasiel son of Abner; of Dan, Azareel son of Jeroham. 
These are the heads of the tribes of Israel. 
But David has not taken up their number from a son of twenty years and under, for YHWH had said He would multiply Israel as the stars of the heavens. 
Joab son of Zeruiah has begun to number, but has not finished; and there is wrath against Israel for this, and the number has not gone up in the account of the Chronicles of King David. 
And Azmaveth son of Adiel is over the treasures of the king; and Jonathan son of Uzziah is over the treasures in the field, in the cities, and in the villages, and in the towers; 
and Ezri son of Chelub is over workmen of the field for the service of the ground; 
and Shimei the Ramathite is over the vineyards; and Zabdi the Shiphmite is over what is in the vineyards for the treasures of wine; 
and Ba‘al-Hanan the Gederite is over the olives and the sycamores that are in the low country; and Joash is over the treasures of oil; 
and Shitrai the Sharonite is over the herds that are feeding in Sharon; and Shaphat son of Adlai is over the herds in the valleys; 
and Obil the Ishmaelite is over the camels; and Jehdeiah the Meronothite is over the donkeys; 
and Jaziz the Hagerite is over the flock; all these are heads of the substance that King David has. 
And Jonathan, David’s uncle, is counselor, a man of understanding, and he is also a scribe; and Jehiel son of Hachmoni is with the sons of the king; 
and Ahithophel is counselor to the king; and Hushai the Archite is the friend of the king; 
and after Ahithophel is Jehoiada son of Benaiah, and Abiathar; and the head of the host of the king is Joab. 
