2 Kings.
Chapter 21.
Manasseh is a son of twelve years in his reigning, and he has reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother is Hephzi-Bah; 
and he does evil in the eyes of YHWH, according to the abominations of the nations that YHWH dispossessed from the presence of the sons of Israel, 
and he turns and builds the high places that his father Hezekiah destroyed, and raises altars for Ba‘al, and makes an Asherah, as Ahab king of Israel did, and bows himself to all the host of the heavens, and serves them. 
And he has built altars in the house of YHWH, of which YHWH said, “In Jerusalem I put My Name.” 
And he builds altars to all the host of the heavens in the two courts of the house of YHWH; 
and he has caused his son to pass through fire, and observed clouds, and used enchantment, and dealt with a familiar spirit and wizards; he has multiplied to do evil in the eyes of YHWH—to provoke to anger. 
And he sets the carved image of the Asherah that he made in the house of which YHWH said to David and to his son Solomon, “In this house, and in Jerusalem, that I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I put My Name for all time; 
and I do not add to cause the foot of Israel to move from the ground that I gave to their fathers, only, if they observe to do according to all that I commanded them, and to all the Law that My servant Moses commanded them.” 
And they have not listened, and Manasseh causes them to err, to do evil above the nations that YHWH destroyed from the presence of the sons of Israel. 
And YHWH speaks by the hand of his servants the prophets, saying, 
“Because that Manasseh king of Judah has done these abominations—he has done evil above all that the Amorites have done who are before him, and also causes Judah to sin by his idols— 
therefore, thus said YHWH, God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing in calamity on Jerusalem and Judah, that whoever hears of it, his two ears tingle. 
And I have stretched out the line of Samaria over Jerusalem, and the plummet of the house of Ahab, and wiped Jerusalem as one wipes the dish—he has wiped, and has turned it on its face. 
And I have left the remnant of My inheritance, and given them into the hand of their enemies, and they have been for a prey and for a spoil to all their enemies, 
because that they have done evil in My eyes, and are provoking Me to anger from the day that their fathers came out of Egypt, even to this day.” 
And also, Manasseh has shed very much innocent blood, until he has filled Jerusalem mouth to mouth, apart from his sin that he has caused Judah to sin, to do evil in the eyes of YHWH. 
And the rest of the matters of Manasseh, and all that he did, and his sin that he sinned, are they not written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? 
And Manasseh lies with his fathers, and is buried in the garden of his house, in the garden of Uzza, and his son Amon reigns in his stead. 
Amon is a son of twenty-two years in his reigning, and he has reigned two years in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother is Meshullemeth daughter of Haruz of Jotbah, 
and he does evil in the eyes of YHWH, as his father Manasseh did, 
and walks in all the way that his father walked in, and serves the idols that his father served, and bows himself to them, 
and forsakes YHWH, God of his fathers, and has not walked in the way of YHWH. 
And the servants of Amon conspire against him, and put the king to death in his own house, 
and the people of the land strike all those conspiring against King Amon, and the people of the land cause his son Josiah to reign in his stead. 
And the rest of the matters of Amon that he did, are they not written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? 
And one buries him in his burying-place in the garden of Uzza, and his son Josiah reigns in his stead. 
