1 Chronicles.
Chapter 25.
And David and the heads of the host separate for service, of the sons of Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun, who are prophesying with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals; and the number of the workmen is according to their service. 
Of sons of Asaph: Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asharelah; sons of Asaph are by the side of Asaph, who is prophesying by the side of the king. 
Of Jeduthun, sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, and Shimei, and Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, by the side of their father Jeduthun; he is prophesying with a harp, for giving of thanks and of praise for YHWH. 
Of Heman, sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-Ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth; 
all these are sons of Heman, seer of the king in the things of God, to lift up a horn; and God gives fourteen sons and three daughters to Heman. 
All these are by the side of their father in the song of the house of YHWH, with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for the service of the house of God; by the side of the king are Asaph, and Jeduthun, and Heman. 
And their number, with their brothers taught in the song of YHWH—all who are intelligent—is two hundred and eighty-eight. 
And they cause lots to fall, charge next to charge, the small as well as the great, the intelligent with the learner. 
And the first lot goes out for Asaph to Joseph; the second, Gedaliah—him, and his brothers and his sons—twelve; 
the third, Zaccur, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the fifth, Nethaniah, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the sixth, Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the seventh, Jesharelah, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the eighth, Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the ninth, Mattaniah, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the tenth, Shimei, his sons and his brothers—twelve: 
eleventh, Azareel, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
for the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
for the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
for the fifteenth to Jeremoth, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the seventeenth to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the eighteenth to Hanani, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the nineteenth to Mallothi, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the twentieth to Eliathah, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the twenty-first to Hothir, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the twenty-second to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the twenty-third to Mahazioth, his sons and his brothers—twelve; 
the twenty-fourth to Romamti-Ezer, his sons and his brothers—twelve. 
