1 Kings.
Chapter 19.
And Ahab declares to Jezebel all that Elijah did, and all of how he slew all the prophets by the sword, 
and Jezebel sends a messenger to Elijah, saying, “Thus the gods do, and thus do they add—surely about this time tomorrow, I make your life as the life of one of them.” 
And he fears, and rises, and goes for his life, and comes to Beer-Sheba, that is Judah’s, and leaves his young man there, 
and he himself has gone a day’s journey into the wilderness, and comes and sits under a certain broom tree, and desires his soul to die, and says, “Enough, now, O YHWH, take my soul, for I am not better than my fathers.” 
And he lies down and sleeps under a certain broom tree, and behold, a messenger is reaching toward him and says to him, “Rise, eat”; 
and he looks attentively, and behold, at his bolster is a cake on burning stones, and a dish of water, and he eats, and drinks, and turns, and lies down. 
And the messenger of YHWH turns back a second time, and is reaching toward him, and says, “Rise, eat, for the way is too great for you”; 
and he rises, and eats, and drinks, and goes in the power of that food for forty days and forty nights, to the mountain of God—Horeb. 
And he comes in there, to the cave, and lodges there, and behold, the word of YHWH is to him, and says to him, “What are you doing here, Elijah?” 
And he says, “I have been very zealous for YHWH, God of Hosts, for the sons of Israel have forsaken Your covenant—they have thrown down Your altars, and they have slain Your prophets by the sword, and I am left, I, by myself, and they seek my life—to take it.” 
And He says, “Go out, and you have stood on the mountain before YHWH.” And behold, YHWH is passing by, and a wind—great and strong—is tearing mountains, and shattering rocks before YHWH, but YHWH is not in the wind; and after the wind is a shaking, but YHWH is not in the shaking; 
and after the shaking is a fire, but YHWH is not in the fire; and after the fire is a voice like a small whisper; 
and it comes to pass, at Elijah’s hearing it, that he wraps his face in his robe, and goes out, and stands at the opening of the cave, and behold, a voice speaks to him, and it says, “What are you doing here, Elijah?” 
And he says, “I have been very zealous for YHWH, God of Hosts; for the sons of Israel have forsaken Your covenant, they have thrown down Your altars, and they have slain Your prophets by the sword, and I am left, I, by myself, and they seek my life—to take it.” 
And YHWH says to him, “Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus, and you have gone in, and anointed Hazael for king over Aram, 
and you anoint Jehu son of Nimshi for king over Israel, and you anoint Elisha son of Shaphat, of Abel-Meholah, for prophet in your stead. 
And it has been, he who has escaped from the sword of Hazael, Jehu puts to death, and he who has escaped from the sword of Jehu, Elisha puts to death; 
and I have left in Israel seven thousand—all the knees that have not bowed to Ba‘al, and every mouth that has not kissed him.” 
And he goes there, and finds Elisha son of Shaphat, and he is plowing; twelve yoke are before him, and he is with the twelfth; and Elijah passes over to him, and casts his robe at him, 
and he forsakes the ox, and runs after Elijah, and says, “Please let me give a kiss to my father and to my mother, and I go after you.” And he says to him, “Go, turn back, for what have I done to you?” 
And he turns back from after him, and takes the yoke of the ox, and sacrifices it, and with the instruments of the ox he has boiled its flesh, and gives to the people, and they eat, and he rises, and goes after Elijah, and serves him. 
