John.
Chapter 15.
“I AM the true vine, and My Father is the vinedresser; 
every branch not bearing fruit in Me, He takes it away, and everyone bearing fruit, He cleanses by pruning it, that it may bear more fruit; 
you are already clean, because of the word that I have spoken to you; 
remain in Me, and I in you, as the branch is not able to bear fruit of itself, if it may not remain in the vine, so neither you, if you may not remain in Me. 
I AM the vine, you the branches; he who is remaining in Me, and I in him, this one bears much fruit, because apart from Me you are not able to do anything; 
if anyone may not remain in Me, he was cast forth outside as the branch, and was withered, and they gather them, and cast into fire, and they are burned; 
if you may remain in Me, and My sayings may remain in you, whatever you may wish you will ask, and it will be done to you. 
In this was My Father glorified, that you may bear much fruit, and you will become My disciples. 
According as the Father loved Me, I also loved you, remain in My love; 
if you may keep My commands, you will remain in My love, according as I have kept the commands of My Father, and remain in His love; 
these things I have spoken to you, that My joy in you may remain, and your joy may be full. 
This is My command, that you love one another, according as I loved you; 
greater love has no one than this, that anyone may lay down his life for his friends; 
you are My friends if you may do whatever I command you; 
I no longer call you servants, because the servant has not known what his lord does, and I have called you friends, because all things that I heard from My Father, I made known to you. 
You did not choose Me, but I chose you, and appointed you, that you might go away, and might bear fruit, and your fruit might remain, that whatever you may ask of the Father in My Name, He may give you. 
These things I command you, that you love one another; 
if the world hates you, you know that it has hated Me before you; 
if you were of the world, the world would have been cherishing its own, but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world—because of this the world hates you. 
Remember the word that I said to you: A servant is not greater than his lord; if they persecuted Me, they will also persecute you; if they kept My word, they will also keep yours; 
but all these things will they do to you, because of My Name, because they have not known Him who sent Me; 
if I had not come and spoken to them, they were not having sin; but now they have no pretext for their sin. 
He who is hating Me, hates My Father also; 
if I did not do among them the works that no other has done, they were not having sin, and now they have both seen and hated both Me and My Father; 
but—that the word may be fulfilled that was written in their law—They hated Me without a cause. 
And when the Comforter may come, whom I will send to you from the Father—the Spirit of truth, who comes forth from the Father, He will testify of Me; 
and you also testify, because you are with Me from the beginning.” 
