Leviticus.
Chapter 13.
And YHWH speaks to Moses and to Aaron, saying, 
“When a man has a rising, or scab, or bright spot in the skin of his flesh, and it has become a leprous plague in the skin of his flesh, then he has been brought to Aaron the priest, or to one of his sons the priests; 
and the priest has seen the plague in the skin of the flesh, and the hair in the plague has turned white, and the appearance of the plague is deeper than the skin of his flesh—it is a plague of leprosy, and the priest has seen him, and has pronounced him unclean. 
And if the bright spot is white in the skin of his flesh, and its appearance is not deeper than the skin, and its hair has not turned white, then the priest has shut up him who has the plague for seven days. 
And the priest has seen him on the seventh day, and behold, the plague has stood in his eyes, the plague has not spread in the skin, and the priest has shut him up for a second seven days. 
And the priest has seen him on the second seventh day, and behold, the plague has faded, and the plague has not spread in the skin, and the priest has pronounced him clean; it is a scab, and he has washed his garments, and has been clean. 
And if the scab spreads greatly in the skin, after his being seen by the priest for his cleansing, then he has been seen a second time by the priest; 
and the priest has seen, and behold, the scab has spread in the skin, and the priest has pronounced him unclean; it is leprosy. 
When a plague of leprosy is in a man, then he has been brought to the priest, 
and the priest has seen, and behold, a white rising in the skin, and it has turned the hair white, and a quickening of raw flesh is in the rising— 
it is an old leprosy in the skin of his flesh, and the priest has pronounced him unclean; he does not shut him up, for he is unclean. 
And if the leprosy breaks out greatly in the skin, and the leprosy has covered all the skin of him who has the plague, from his head even to his feet, to all that appears to the eyes of the priest, 
then the priest has seen, and behold, the leprosy has covered all his flesh, and he has pronounced him who has the plague clean; it has all turned white; he is clean. 
And in the day of raw flesh being seen in him, he is unclean; 
and the priest has seen the raw flesh, and has pronounced him unclean; the raw flesh is unclean—it is leprosy. 
Or when the raw flesh turns back, and has been turned to white, then he has come to the priest, 
and the priest has seen him, and behold, the plague has been turned to white, and the priest has pronounced clean him who has the plague; he is clean. 
And when flesh has in it, in its skin, an ulcer, and it has been healed, 
and there has been in the place of the ulcer a white rising, or a bright white spot, reddish, then it has been seen by the priest, 
and the priest has seen, and behold, its appearance is lower than the skin, and its hair has turned white, and the priest has pronounced him unclean; it is a plague of leprosy—it has broken out in an ulcer. 
And if the priest sees it, and behold, there is no white hair in it, and it is not lower than the skin, and has faded, then the priest has shut him up for seven days; 
and if it spreads greatly in the skin, then the priest has pronounced him unclean—it is a plague; 
and if the bright spot stays in its place—it has not spread—it is an inflammation of the ulcer; and the priest has pronounced him clean. 
Or when flesh has a fiery burning in its skin, and the quickening of the burning, the bright white spot, has been reddish or white, 
and the priest has seen it, and behold, the hair has turned white in the bright spot, and its appearance is deeper than the skin, it is leprosy; it has broken out in the burning, and the priest has pronounced him unclean; it is a plague of leprosy. 
And if the priest sees it, and behold, there is no white hair on the bright spot, and it is not lower than the skin, and it has faded, then the priest has shut him up for seven days; 
and the priest has seen him on the seventh day, and if it spreads greatly in the skin, then the priest has pronounced him unclean; it is a plague of leprosy. 
And if the bright spot stays in its place, it has not spread in the skin, and has faded; it is a rising of the burning, and the priest has pronounced him clean; for it is inflammation of the burning. 
And when a man (or a woman) has a plague in him, in the head or in the beard, 
then the priest has seen the plague, and behold, its appearance is deeper than the skin, and a thin, shining hair is in it, and the priest has pronounced him unclean; it is a scale—it is a leprosy of the head or of the beard. 
And when the priest sees the scaly plague, and behold, its appearance is not deeper than the skin, and there is no black hair in it, then the priest has shut up him who has the scaly plague for seven days. 
And the priest has seen the plague on the seventh day, and behold, the scale has not spread, and a shining hair has not been in it, and the appearance of the scale is not deeper than the skin, 
then he has shaved himself, but he does not shave the scale; and the priest has shut up him who has the scale for a second seven days. 
And the priest has seen the scale on the seventh day, and behold, the scale has not spread in the skin, and its appearance is not deeper than the skin, and the priest has pronounced him clean, and he has washed his garments, and has been clean. 
And if the scale spreads greatly in the skin after his cleansing, 
and the priest has seen him, and behold, the scale has spread in the skin, the priest does not seek for the shining hair—he is unclean; 
and if in his eyes the scale has stayed, and black hair has sprung up in it, the scale has been healed—he is clean—and the priest has pronounced him clean. 
And when a man or woman has bright spots in the skin of their flesh, white bright spots, 
and the priest has seen, and behold, white and faded bright spots are in the skin of their flesh—it is a freckled spot broken out in the skin; he is clean. 
And when a man’s head is polished, he is bald; he is clean; 
and if his head is polished from the corner of his face, he is bald of the forehead; he is clean. 
And when there is in the bald back of the head, or in the bald forehead, a reddish-white plague, it is a leprosy breaking out in the bald back of the head, or in the bald forehead; 
and the priest has seen him, and behold, the rising of the reddish-white plague in the bald back of the head, or in the bald forehead, is as the appearance of leprosy, in the skin of the flesh, 
he is a leprous man—he is unclean; the priest pronounces him utterly unclean; his plague is in his head. 
As for the leper in whom is the plague, his garments are torn, and his head is uncovered, and he covers over the upper lip, and he calls, Unclean! Unclean! 
He is unclean all the days that the plague is in him; he is unclean. He dwells alone; his dwelling is at the outside of the camp. 
And when there is a plague of leprosy in any garment—in a garment of wool, or in a garment of linen, 
or in the warp, or in the woof, of linen or of wool, or in a skin, or in any work of skin— 
and the plague has been greenish or reddish in the garment, or in the skin, or in the warp, or in the woof, or in any vessel of skin, it is a plague of leprosy, and it has been shown to the priest. 
And the priest has seen the plague, and has shut up that which has the plague for seven days; 
and he has seen the plague on the seventh day, and the plague has spread in the garment, or in the warp, or in the woof, or in the skin, of all that is made of skin for work, the plague is a fretting leprosy; it is unclean. 
And he has burned the garment, or the warp, or the woof, in wool or in linen, or any vessel of skin in which the plague is; for it is a fretting leprosy; it is burned with fire. 
And if the priest sees, and behold, the plague has not spread in the garment, or in the warp, or in the woof, or in any vessel of skin, 
then the priest has commanded, and they have washed that in which the plague is, and he has shut it up for a second seven days. 
And the priest has seen that which has the plague after it has been washed, and behold, the plague has not changed its aspect, and the plague has not spread—it is unclean; you burn it with fire; it is a fretting in its back-part or in its front-part. 
And if the priest has seen, and behold, the plague has faded after it has been washed, then he has torn it out of the garment, or out of the skin, or out of the warp, or out of the woof; 
and if it is still seen in the garment, or in the warp, or in the woof, or in any vessel of skin, it is a fretting; you burn it with fire—that in which the plague is. 
And the garment, or the warp, or the woof, or any vessel of skin which you wash when the plague has turned aside from them, then it has been washed a second time, and has been clean. 
This is the law of a plague of leprosy in a garment of wool or of linen, or of the warp or of the woof, or of any vessel of skin, to pronounce it clean or to pronounce it unclean.” 
