Matthew.
Chapter 22.
And Jesus answering, again spoke to them in allegories, saying, 
“The kingdom of the heavens was likened to a man, a king, who made wedding feasts for his son, 
and he sent forth his servants to call those having been called to the wedding feasts, and they were not willing to come. 
Again he sent forth other servants, saying, Say to those who have been called: Behold, I prepared my early meal, my oxen and the fatlings have been killed, and all things are ready, come to the wedding feasts; 
and they, having disregarded it, went away, one to his own field, and the other to his merchandise; 
and the rest, having laid hold on his servants, mistreated and slew them. 
And the king having heard, was angry, and having sent forth his soldiers, he destroyed those murderers, and their city he set on fire; 
then he says to his servants, The wedding feast indeed is ready, and those called were not worthy, 
be going, then, on to the cross-ways, and as many as you may find, call to the wedding feasts. 
And those servants, having gone forth to the ways, gathered all, as many as they found, both bad and good, and the wedding was filled with those reclining. 
And the king having come in to view those reclining, saw there a man not clothed with wedding clothes, 
and he says to him, Friend, how did you come in here, not having wedding clothes? And he was speechless. 
Then the king said to the servants, Having bound his feet and hands, take him up and cast forth into the outer darkness, there will be the weeping and the gnashing of the teeth; 
for many are called, and few chosen.” 
Then the Pharisees having gone, took counsel how they might ensnare Him in words, 
and they send to Him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, “Teacher, we have known that You are true, and the way of God in truth You teach, and You are not caring for anyone, for You do not look to the face of men; 
tell us, therefore, what do You think? Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar or not?” 
And Jesus having known their wickedness, said, “Why do you tempt Me, hypocrites? 
Show Me the tribute-coin.” And they brought to Him a denarius; 
and He says to them, “Whose is this image and the inscription?” 
They say to Him, “Caesar’s”; then He says to them, “Render therefore the things of Caesar to Caesar, and the things of God to God”; 
and having heard they wondered, and having left Him they went away. 
In that day there came near to Him Sadducees who are saying there is not a resurrection, and they questioned Him, saying, 
“Teacher, Moses said if anyone may die having no children, his brother will marry his wife, and will raise up seed to his brother. 
And there were with us seven brothers, and the first having married died, and having no seed, he left his wife to his brother; 
in like manner also the second, and the third, to the seventh, 
and last of all the woman also died; 
therefore in the resurrection, of which of the seven will she be wife—for all had her?” 
And Jesus answering said to them, “You go astray, not knowing the Writings, nor the power of God; 
for in the resurrection they do not marry, nor are they given in marriage, but are as messengers of God in Heaven. 
And concerning the resurrection of the dead, did you not read that which was spoken to you by God, saying, 
I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not a God of dead men, but of living.” 
And having heard, the multitudes were astonished at His teaching; 
and the Pharisees, having heard that He silenced the Sadducees, were gathered together to Him; 
and one of them, a lawyer, questioned, tempting Him, and saying, 
“Teacher, which is the great command in the Law?” 
And Jesus said to him, “You will love the LORD your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your understanding— 
this is a first and great command; 
and the second is like to it: You will love your neighbor as yourself; 
on these—the two commands—all the Law and the Prophets hang.” 
And the Pharisees having been gathered together, Jesus questioned them, 
saying, “What do you think concerning the Christ? Of whom is He Son?” They say to Him, “Of David.” 
He says to them, “How then does David in the Spirit call Him Lord, saying, 
The LORD said to my Lord, || Sit at My right hand, || Until I may make Your enemies Your footstool? 
If then David calls Him Lord, how is He his son?” 
And no one was able to answer Him a word, nor did any dare question Him from that day on. 
