2 Chronicles.
Chapter 10.
And Rehoboam goes to Shechem, for all of Israel has come to Shechem to cause him to reign. 
And it comes to pass, at Jeroboam son of Nebat—who is in Egypt because he has fled from the face of Solomon the king—hearing, that Jeroboam turns back out of Egypt; 
and they send and call for him, and Jeroboam comes in, and all of Israel, and they speak to Rehoboam, saying, 
“Your father made our yoke sharp, and now, make light some of the sharp service of your father, and some of his heavy yoke that he put on us, and we serve you.” 
And he says to them, “Yet three days—then return to me”; and the people go. 
And King Rehoboam consults with the aged men who have been standing before his father Solomon in his being alive, saying, “How are you counseling to answer this people?” 
And they speak to him, saying, “If you become good to this people, and have been pleased with them, and spoken to them good words, then they have been servants to you for all the days.” 
And he forsakes the counsel of the aged men that they counseled him, and consults with the boys who have grown up with him, those standing before him, 
and he says to them, “What are you counseling, and we answer this people that have spoken to me, saying, Make light some of the yoke that your father put on us?” 
And the boys who have grown up with him speak with him, saying, “Thus you say to the people who have spoken to you, saying, Your father made our yoke heavy, and you, make light some of our yoke; thus you say to them, My little finger is thicker than the loins of my father; 
and now, my father laid a heavy yoke on you, and I add to your yoke; my father disciplined you with whips, and I—with scorpions.” 
And Jeroboam comes in, and all the people, to Rehoboam on the third day, as the king spoke, saying, “Return to me on the third day.” 
And the king answers them sharply, and King Rehoboam forsakes the counsel of the aged men, 
and speaks to them according to the counsel of the boys, saying, “My father made your yoke heavy, and I add to it; my father disciplined you with whips, and I—with scorpions.” 
And the king has not listened to the people, for the revolution has been from God, for the sake of YHWH’s establishing His word that He spoke by the hand of Abijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam son of Nebat. 
And all Israel have seen that the king has not listened to them, and the people send back word to the king, saying, “What portion do we have in David? Indeed, there is no inheritance in a son of Jesse; go, each to your tents, O Israel! Now see your house, O David!” And all in Israel go to their tents. 
As for the sons of Israel who are dwelling in the cities of Judah—Rehoboam reigns over them. 
And King Rehoboam sends Hadoram, who is over the tribute, and the sons of Israel cast stones at him, and he dies; and King Rehoboam has strengthened himself to go up into a chariot to flee to Jerusalem; 
and Israel transgresses against the house of David to this day. 
