Acts.
Chapter 21.
And it came to pass, at our sailing, having been parted from them, having run direct, we came to Coos, and the succeeding day to Rhodes, and there to Patara, 
and having found a ship passing over to Phoenicia, having gone on board, we sailed, 
and having discovered Cyprus, and having left it on the left, we were sailing to Syria, and landed at Tyre, for there was the ship discharging the cargo. 
And having found out the disciples, we tarried there seven days, and they said to Paul, through the Spirit, not to go up to Jerusalem; 
but when it came that we completed the days, having gone forth, we went on, all bringing us on the way, with women and children, to the outside of the city, and having bowed the knees on the shore, we prayed, 
and having embraced one another, we embarked in the ship, and they returned to their own friends. 
And we, having finished the course, from Tyre came down to Ptolemais, and having greeted the brothers, we remained one day with them; 
and on the next day Paul and his company having gone forth, we came to Caesarea, and having entered into the house of Philip the evangelist—who is of the seven—we remained with him, 
and this one had four daughters, virgins, prophesying. 
And we remaining many more days, there came down a certain one from Judea, a prophet, by name Agabus, 
and he having come to us, and having taken up the girdle of Paul, having also bound his own hands and feet, said, “Thus says the Holy Spirit: The man whose is this girdle—so will the Jews in Jerusalem bind, and they will deliver him up into the hands of nations.” 
And when we heard these things, we called on him—both we, and those of that place—not to go up to Jerusalem, 
and Paul answered, “Why are you weeping, and crushing my heart? For I am ready, not only to be bound, but also to die at Jerusalem for the Name of the Lord Jesus”; 
and he not being persuaded, we were silent, saying, “The will of the LORD be done.” 
And after these days, having taken our vessels, we were going up to Jerusalem, 
and there went also of the disciples from Caesarea with us, bringing with them him with whom we may lodge, a certain Mnason of Cyprus, an aged disciple. 
And we having come to Jerusalem, the brothers gladly received us, 
and on the next day Paul was going in with us to James, all the elders also came, 
and having greeted them, he was expounding, one by one, each of the things God did among the nations through his ministry, 
and they having heard, were glorifying the LORD. They also said to him, “You see, brother, how many myriads there are of Jews who have believed, and all are zealous of the Law, 
and they are instructed concerning you, that you teach departure from Moses to all Jews among the nations, saying not to circumcise the children, nor to walk after the customs; 
what then is it? Certainly the multitude must come together, for they will hear that you have come. 
This, therefore, that we say to you, do. We have four men having a vow on themselves, 
having taken these, be purified with them, and be at expense with them, that they may shave the head, and all may know that the things of which they have been instructed concerning you are nothing, but you walk—yourself also—keeping the Law. 
And concerning those of the nations who have believed, we have written, having given judgment, that they observe no such thing, except to keep themselves both from idol-sacrifices, and blood, and a strangled thing, and whoredom.” 
Then Paul, having taken the men, on the following day, having purified himself with them, was entering into the temple, announcing the fulfilment of the days of the purification, until the offering was offered for each one of them. 
And as the seven days were about to be fully ended, the Jews from Asia having beheld him in the temple, were stirring up all the multitude, and they laid hands on him, 
crying out, “Men, Israelites, help! This is the man who, against the people, and the Law, and this place, is teaching all everywhere; and further, also, he brought Greeks into the temple, and has defiled this holy place”; 
for they had seen before Trophimus, the Ephesian, in the city with him, whom they were supposing that Paul brought into the temple. 
All the city was also moved and there was a running together of the people, and having laid hold on Paul, they were drawing him out of the temple, and immediately were the doors shut, 
and they seeking to kill him, a rumor came to the chief captain of the band that all Jerusalem has been thrown into confusion, 
who, at once, having taken soldiers and centurions, ran down on them, and they having seen the chief captain and the soldiers, left off beating Paul. 
Then the chief captain, having come near, took him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains, and was inquiring who he may be, and what it is he has been doing, 
and some were crying out one thing, and some another, among the multitude, and not being able to know the certainty because of the tumult, he commanded him to be carried into the stronghold, 
and when he came on the steps, it happened he was carried by the soldiers, because of the violence of the multitude, 
for the crowd of the people was following after, crying, “Away with him.” 
And Paul being about to be led into the stronghold, says to the chief captain, “Is it permitted to me to say anything to you?” And he said, “Do you know Greek? 
Are you not, then, the Egyptian who made an uprising before these days, and led the four thousand men of the assassins into the desert?” 
And Paul said, “I, indeed, am a man, a Jew, of Tarsus of Cilicia, a citizen of no insignificant city; and I implore you, permit me to speak to the people.” 
And he having given him leave, Paul having stood on the stairs, beckoned with the hand to the people, and there having been a great silence, he spoke to them in the Hebrew dialect, saying: 
