Deuteronomy.
Chapter 14.
“You are sons of your God YHWH; you do not cut yourselves, nor make baldness between your eyes for the dead; 
for you are a holy people to your God YHWH, and YHWH has fixed on you to be to Him for a people, a peculiar treasure, out of all the peoples who are on the face of the ground. 
You do not eat any abomination; 
this is the beast which you eat: ox, lamb of the sheep, or kid of the goats, 
deer, and roe, and fallow deer, and wild goat, and ibex, and antelope, and zemer; 
and every beast dividing the hoof, and cleaving the cleft into two hooves, bringing up the cud, among the beasts—you eat it. 
Only, this you do not eat, of those bringing up the cud, and of those dividing the cloven hoof: the camel, and the hare, and the hyrax, for they are bringing up the cud, but the hoof has not divided—they are unclean to you; 
and the sow, for it is dividing the hoof, and not bringing up the cud—it is unclean to you; you do not eat of their flesh, and you do not come against their carcass. 
This you eat of all which are in the waters: anything that has fins and scales you eat; 
and anything which does not have fins and scales you do not eat—it is unclean to you. 
Any clean bird you eat; 
and these are they of which you do not eat: the eagle, and the bearded vulture, and the osprey, 
and the kite, and the falcon, and the vulture after its kind, 
and every raven after its kind; 
and the ostrich, and the nightjar or male ostrich, and the seagull, and the hawk after its kind; 
the little owl, and the great owl, and the waterhen, 
and the pelican, and the Egyptian vulture, and the cormorant, 
and the stork, and the heron after its kind, and the hoopoe, and the bat. 
And every teeming thing which is flying—it is unclean to you; they are not eaten; 
any clean bird you eat. 
You do not eat of any carcass; you give it to the sojourner who is within your gates, and he has eaten it; or sell it to a stranger; for you are a holy people to your God YHWH. You do not boil a kid in its mother’s milk. 
You certainly tithe all the increase of your seed which the field is bringing forth year by year; 
and you have eaten before your God YHWH, in the place where He chooses to cause His Name to dwell, the tithe of your grain, of your new wine, and of your oil, and the firstlings of your herd, and of your flock, so that you learn to fear your God YHWH for all the days. 
And when the way is too much for you, that you are not able to carry it—when the place is too far off from you which your God YHWH chooses to put His Name there, when your God YHWH blesses you— 
then you have given it in money, and have bound up the money in your hand, and gone to the place on which your God YHWH fixes; 
and you have given the money for anything which your soul desires, for oxen, and for sheep, and for wine, and for strong drink, and for anything which your soul asks for, and you have eaten before your God YHWH there, and you have rejoiced, you and your house. 
As for the Levite who is within your gates, you do not forsake him, for he has no portion and inheritance with you. 
At the end of three years you bring out all the tithe of your increase in that year, and have placed it within your gates; 
and the Levite has come in—for he has no part and inheritance with you—and the sojourner, and the fatherless, and the widow, who are within your gates, and they have eaten, and been satisfied, so that your God YHWH blesses you in all the work of your hand which you do.” 
