Revelation.
Chapter 21.
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and the sea is no more; 
and I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of Heaven, made ready as a bride adorned for her husband; 
and I heard a great voice out of Heaven, saying, “Behold, the dwelling place of God is with men, and He will dwell with them, and they will be His peoples, and God Himself will be with them as their God, 
and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and there will be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying, nor will there be anymore pain, because the first things passed away.” 
And He who is sitting on the throne said, “Behold, I make all things new”; and He says to me, “Write, because these words are true and steadfast”; 
and He said to me, “It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. To him who is thirsting, I will give of the fountain of the water of life freely. 
The one who is overcoming will inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he will be My son. 
But to fearful, and unsteadfast, and abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all the liars, their part is in the lake that is burning with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.” 
And one of the seven messengers, having the seven bowls that are full of the seven last plagues, came and spoke with me, saying, “Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb,” 
and he carried me away in the Spirit to a mountain great and high, and showed me the great city, the holy Jerusalem, coming down out of Heaven from God, 
having the glory of God, and her light—like a most precious stone, as a jasper stone clear as crystal, 
also having a great and high wall, having twelve gates, and at the gates twelve messengers, and names written thereon, which are those of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel— 
at the east three gates, at the north three gates, at the south three gates, at the west three gates; 
and the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. 
And he who is speaking with me had a golden reed, that he may measure the city, and its gates, and its wall; 
and the city lies square, and the length of it is as great as the breadth; and he measured the city with the reed—twelve thousand stadia; the length, and the breadth, and the height of it are equal. 
And he measured its wall—one hundred forty-four cubits, the measure of a man, that is, of the messenger; 
and the building of its wall was jasper, and the city is pure gold—like to pure glass. 
And the foundations of the wall of the city have been adorned with every precious stone: the first foundation jasper, the second sapphire, the third chalcedony, the fourth emerald, 
the fifth sardonyx, the sixth sardius, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the eleventh jacinth, the twelfth amethyst. 
And the twelve gates are twelve pearls, each one of the gates respectively was of one pearl; and the street of the city is pure gold—as transparent glass. 
And I did not see a temple in it, for the LORD God, the Almighty, and the Lamb, are its temple. 
And the city has no need of the sun, nor of the moon, that they may shine in it; for the glory of God lightens it, and the lamp of it—the Lamb; 
and the nations will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth bring their glory and honor into it, 
and its gates will never be shut by day, for night will not be there; 
and they will bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it; 
and there may never enter into it anything defiling and doing abomination, and a lie, if not those written in the Lamb’s Scroll of Life. 
