The Book of Numbers.
Chapter 1.
And YHWH speaks to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the Tent of Meeting, on the first of the second month, in the second year of their going out of the land of Egypt, saying, 
“Take a census of all the congregation of the sons of Israel by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names—every male by their counted heads; 
from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host in Israel, you number them by their hosts, you and Aaron; 
and with you there is a man for a tribe, each is a head of the house of his fathers. 
And these are the names of the men who stand with you: for Reuben, Elizur son of Shedeur; 
for Simeon, Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai; 
for Judah, Nahshon son of Amminadab; 
for Issachar, Nathaneel son of Zuar; 
for Zebulun, Eliab son of Helon; 
for the sons of Joseph: for Ephraim, Elishama son of Ammihud; for Manasseh, Gamaliel son of Pedahzur; 
for Benjamin, Abidan son of Gideoni; 
for Dan, Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai; 
for Asher, Pagiel son of Ocran; 
for Gad, Eliasaph son of Deuel; 
for Naphtali, Ahira son of Enan.” 
These are those called of the congregation, princes of the tribes of their fathers; they are heads of the thousands of Israel. 
And Moses takes—Aaron also—these men, who were defined by name, 
and they assembled all the congregation on the first of the second month, and they declare their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names from a son of twenty years and upward, by their counted heads, 
as YHWH has commanded Moses; and he numbers them in the wilderness of Sinai. 
And the sons of Reuben, Israel’s firstborn—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, by their counted heads, every male from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Reuben, are forty-six thousand and five hundred. 
Of the sons of Simeon—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, its numbered ones in the number of names, by their counted heads, every male from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Simeon, are fifty-nine thousand and three hundred. 
Of the sons of Gad—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Gad, are forty-five thousand and six hundred and fifty. 
Of the sons of Judah—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Judah, are seventy-four thousand and six hundred. 
Of the sons of Issachar—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Issachar, are fifty-four thousand and four hundred. 
Of the sons of Zebulun—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Zebulun, are fifty-seven thousand and four hundred. 
Of the sons of Joseph: of the sons of Ephraim—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Ephraim, are forty thousand and five hundred. 
Of the sons of Manasseh—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Manasseh, are thirty-two thousand and two hundred. 
Of the sons of Benjamin—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Benjamin, are thirty-five thousand and four hundred. 
Of the sons of Dan—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Dan, are sixty-two thousand and seven hundred. 
Of the sons of Asher—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Asher, are forty-one thousand and five hundred. 
Of the sons of Naphtali—their births, by their families, by the house of their fathers, in the number of names, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host— 
their numbered ones, for the tribe of Naphtali, are fifty-three thousand and four hundred. 
These are those numbered, whom Moses numbered—Aaron also—and the princes of Israel, twelve men, each one has been the representative for the house of his fathers. 
And they are, all those numbered of the sons of Israel, by the house of their fathers, from a son of twenty years and upward, everyone going out to the host in Israel, 
indeed, all those numbered are six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty. 
And the Levites, for the tribe of their fathers, have not numbered themselves in their midst, 
seeing YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Only the tribe of Levi you do not number, and you do not take up their census in the midst of the sons of Israel; 
and you, appoint the Levites over the Dwelling Place of the Testimony, and over all its vessels, and over all that it has; they carry the Dwelling Place, and all its vessels, and they serve it; and they encamp around the Dwelling Place. 
And in the journeying of the Dwelling Place, the Levites take it down, and in the encamping of the Dwelling Place, the Levites raise it up; and the stranger who is coming near is put to death.” 
And the sons of Israel have encamped, each by his camp, and each by his standard, by their hosts; 
and the Levites encamp around the Dwelling Place of the Testimony; and there is no wrath on the congregation of the sons of Israel, and the Levites have kept the charge of the Dwelling Place of the Testimony. 
And the sons of Israel do according to all that YHWH has commanded Moses; so they have done. 
