Revelation.
Chapter 22.
And he showed me the river of the water of life, radiant as crystal, going forth out of the throne of God and of the Lamb 
in the midst of its street, and of the river on this side and on that—the Tree of Life, producing twelve fruits, yielding its fruit according to each month, and the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations; 
and there will no longer be any curse, and the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and His servants will serve Him, 
and they will see His face, and His Name is on their foreheads, 
and there will be no night there, and they have no need of the light of a lamp and of the light of the sun, because the LORD God gives them light, and they will reign through the ages of the ages. 
And he said to me, “These words are steadfast and true, and the LORD God of the holy prophets sent His messenger to show to His servants the things that must come quickly. 
Behold, I come quickly; blessed is he who is keeping the words of the prophecy of this scroll.” 
And I, John, am he who is seeing these things and hearing, and when I heard and beheld, I fell down to worship before the feet of the messenger who is showing me these things; 
and he says to me, “Behold—No! For I am your fellow servant, and of your brothers the prophets, and of those keeping the words of this scroll; worship God.” 
And He says to me, “You may not seal the words of the prophecy of this scroll, because the time is near. 
The one being unrighteous—let him be unrighteous still; and the filthy—let him be filthy still; and the righteous—let him do righteousness still; and the holy—let him be holy still. 
Behold, I come quickly, and My reward is with Me, to render to each as his work will be; 
I am the Alpha and the Omega—the Beginning and End—the First and the Last. 
Blessed are those washing their robes that the authority will be theirs to the Tree of Life, and they may enter into the city by the gates; 
and outside are the dogs, and the sorcerers, and the whoremongers, and the murderers, and the idolaters, and everyone cherishing and doing falsehood. 
I, Jesus, sent My messenger to testify to you these things concerning the assemblies; I am the root and the offspring of David, the radiant morning star! 
And the Spirit and the bride say, Come! And he who is hearing—let him say, Come! And he who is thirsting—let him come; and he who is willing—let him take the water of life freely. 
For I testify to everyone hearing the words of the prophecy of this scroll, if anyone may add to these, God will add to him the plagues that have been written in this scroll, 
and if anyone may take away from the words of the scroll of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the Scroll of Life, and out of the holy city, and the things that have been written in this scroll.” 
The One testifying to these things says, “Yes, I come quickly!” Amen. Come, Lord Jesus! 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ is with all the holy ones. Amen.
