Genesis.
Chapter 3.
And the serpent has been cunning above every beast of the field which YHWH God has made, and he says to the woman, “Is it true that God has said, You do not eat from every tree of the garden?” 
And the woman says to the serpent, “From the fruit of the trees of the garden we eat, 
but from the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, You do not eat of it, nor touch it, lest you die.” 
And the serpent says to the woman, “Dying, you do not die, 
for God knows that in the day of your eating of it—your eyes have been opened, and you have been as God, knowing good and evil.” 
And the woman sees that the tree is good for food, and that it is pleasant to the eyes, and the tree is desirable to make one wise, and she takes from its fruit and eats, and also gives some to her husband with her, and he eats; 
and the eyes of them both are opened, and they know that they are naked, and they sew fig-leaves, and make girdles for themselves. 
And they hear the sound of YHWH God walking up and down in the garden at the breeze of the day, and the man and his wife hide themselves from the face of YHWH God in the midst of the trees of the garden. 
And YHWH God calls to the man and says to him, “Where are you?” 
And he says, “I have heard Your sound in the garden, and I am afraid, for I am naked, and I hide myself.” 
And He says, “Who has declared to you that you are naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I have commanded you not to eat?” 
And the man says, “The woman whom You placed with me—she has given to me from the tree, and I eat.” 
And YHWH God says to the woman, “What is this you have done?” And the woman says, “The serpent has caused me to forget, and I eat.” 
And YHWH God says to the serpent, “Because you have done this, cursed are you above all the livestock, and above every beast of the field: on your belly you go, and dust you eat, for all days of your life; 
and I put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her Seed; He bruises your head, and you bruise His heel.” 
To the woman He said, “Multiplying I multiply your sorrow and your conception; you will bear children in sorrow, and your desire is toward your Man or husband, and He or he will rule over you.” 
And to the man He said, “Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and eat from the tree concerning which I have charged you, saying, You do not eat of it, cursed is the ground on your account; in sorrow you eat of it for all days of your life, 
and it brings forth thorn and bramble for you, and you have eaten the herb of the field; 
by the sweat of your face you eat bread until your return to the ground, for you have been taken out of it, for dust you are, and to dust you return.” 
And the man calls his wife’s name Eve, for she has been mother of all living. 
And YHWH God makes coats of skin for the man and his wife, and clothes them. 
And YHWH God says, “Behold, the man was as one of Us, as to the knowledge of good and evil; and now, lest he send forth his hand, and has also taken from the Tree of Life, and eaten, and lived for all time.” 
YHWH God sends him forth from the Garden of Eden to serve the ground from which he has been taken; 
indeed, He casts out the man, and causes the cherubim to dwell at the east of the Garden of Eden with the sword of flame whirling around to guard the way of the Tree of Life. 
