Exodus.
Chapter 19.
In the third month of the going out of the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt, in this day they have come into the wilderness of Sinai, 
and they journey from Rephidim, and enter the wilderness of Sinai, and encamp in the wilderness; and Israel encamps there before the mountain. 
And Moses has gone up to God, and YHWH calls to him out of the mountain, saying, “Thus you say to the house of Jacob, and declare to the sons of Israel: 
You have seen that which I have done to the Egyptians, and how I carry you on eagles’ wings and bring you to Myself. 
And now, if you really listen to My voice, then you have kept My covenant, and have been a special treasure to Me more than all the peoples, for all the earth is Mine; 
and you are to Me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation: these are the words which you speak to the sons of Israel.” 
And Moses comes, and calls for the elderly of the people, and sets before them all these words which YHWH has commanded him; 
and all the people answer together and say, “All that YHWH has spoken we do”; and Moses returns the words of the people to YHWH. 
And YHWH says to Moses, “Behold, I am coming to you in the thickness of the cloud, so that the people hear in My speaking with you, and also believe in you for all time”; and Moses declares the words of the people to YHWH. 
And YHWH says to Moses, “Go to the people and you have sanctified them today and tomorrow, and they have washed their garments, 
and have been prepared for the third day; for on the third day YHWH comes down on Mount Sinai before the eyes of all the people. 
And you have made a border for the people all around, saying, Take heed to yourselves, going up into the mountain or coming against its extremity; whoever is coming against the mountain is certainly put to death; 
a hand does not come against him, for he is certainly stoned or shot through, whether beast or man—it does not live; in the prolonging of the ram’s horn they go up into the mountain.” 
And Moses comes down from the mountain to the people, and sanctifies the people, and they wash their garments; 
and he says to the people, “Be prepared for the third day, do not come near to a woman.” 
And it comes to pass, on the third day, while it is morning, that there are voices, and lightnings, and a heavy cloud on the mountain, and the sound of a very strong horn; and all the people who are in the camp tremble. 
And Moses brings out the people from the camp to meet God, and they station themselves at the lower part of the mountain, 
and Mount Sinai is wholly in smoke from the presence of YHWH, who has come down on it in fire, and its smoke goes up as smoke of the furnace, and the whole mountain trembles exceedingly; 
and the sound of the horn is going on, and is very strong; Moses speaks, and God answers him with a voice. 
And YHWH comes down on Mount Sinai, to the top of the mountain, and YHWH calls for Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses goes up. 
And YHWH says to Moses, “Go down, protest to the people, lest they break through to YHWH to see, and many of them have fallen; 
and also the priests who are coming near to YHWH sanctify themselves, lest YHWH break forth on them.” 
And Moses says to YHWH, “The people are unable to come up to Mount Sinai, for You have protested to us, saying, Make a border for the mountain, then you have sanctified it.” 
And YHWH says to him, “Go, descend, then you have come up, you and Aaron with you; and the priests and the people do not break through to come up to YHWH, lest He break forth on them.” 
And Moses goes down to the people and speaks to them. 
