Revelation.
Chapter 5.
And I saw a scroll on the right hand of Him who is sitting on the throne, written within and on the back, sealed with seven seals; 
and I saw a strong messenger crying with a great voice, “Who is worthy to open the scroll and to loose its seals?” 
And no one was able in Heaven, nor on the earth, nor under the earth, to open the scroll, nor to behold it. 
And I was weeping much, because no one was found worthy to open and to read the scroll, nor to behold it, 
and one of the elders says to me, “Do not weep; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has overcome to open the scroll, and to loose its seven seals”; 
and I saw, and behold, in the midst of the throne, and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb standing as having been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the Seven Spirits of God, which are sent to all the earth, 
and He came and took the scroll out of the right hand of Him who is sitting on the throne. 
And when He took the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell before the Lamb, each one having harps and golden bowls full of incenses, which are the prayers of the holy ones, 
and they sing a new song, saying, “Worthy are You to take the scroll, and to open its seals, because You were slain, and You purchased us to God in Your blood, out of every tribe, and tongue, and people, and nation, 
and made them to be to our God kings and priests, and they will reign on the earth.” 
And I saw, and I heard the voice of many messengers around the throne, and the living creatures, and the elders—and the number of them was myriads of myriads, and thousands of thousands— 
saying with a great voice, “Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive the power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing!” 
And every creature that is in Heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and the things that are on the sea, and all things in them, I heard saying, “To Him who is sitting on the throne and to the Lamb—the blessing, and the honor, and the glory, and the might—through the ages of the ages!” 
And the four living creatures said, “Amen!” And the twenty-four elders fell down and they worship Him who is living through the ages of the ages. 
