Deuteronomy.
Chapter 15.
“At the end of seven years you make a release, 
and this is the matter of the release: every owner of a loan is to release his hand which he lifts up against his neighbor, he does not exact of his neighbor and of his brother, but has proclaimed a release to YHWH; 
of the stranger you may exact, but that which is yours with your brother your hand releases, 
except there is an end when no poor are with you; for YHWH greatly blesses you in the land which your God YHWH is giving to you for an inheritance to possess it, 
only if you listen diligently to the voice of your God YHWH, to observe to do all this command which I am commanding you today. 
For your God YHWH has blessed you as He has spoken to you; and you have lent to many nations, but you have not borrowed; and you have ruled over many nations, but they do not rule over you. 
When there is with you any poor of one of your brothers, in one of your cities, in your land which your God YHWH is giving to you, you do not harden your heart, nor shut your hand from your needy brother; 
for you certainly open your hand to him, and certainly lend him sufficiency for his lack which he lacks. 
Take heed to yourself lest there be a worthless word in your heart, saying, The seventh year is near, the year of release; and your eye is evil against your needy brother, and you do not give to him, and he has called to YHWH concerning you, and it has been sin in you; 
you certainly give to him, and your heart is not sad in your giving to him, for because of this thing your God YHWH blesses you in all your works and in every putting forth of your hand; 
because the poor does not cease out of the land, therefore I am commanding you, saying, You certainly open your hand to your brother, to your poor and to your needy one in your land. 
When your brother is sold to you, a Hebrew or a Hebrewess, and he has served you for six years, then in the seventh year you send him away free from you. 
And when you send him away free from you, you do not send him away empty; 
you certainly adorn him from your flock, and from your threshing-floor, and from your wine-vat; you give to him from that which your God YHWH has blessed you with, 
and you have remembered that you have been a servant in the land of Egypt, and your God YHWH ransoms you; therefore I am commanding you this thing today. 
And it has been, when he says to you, I do not go out from you, because he has loved you and your house, because it is good for him with you, 
then you have taken the awl, and have put it through his ear, and through the door, and he has been a perpetual servant to you; and you also do so to your handmaid. 
It is not hard in your eyes in your sending him away free from you; for his worth has been double the hire of a hired worker when he has served you six years; and your God YHWH has blessed you in all that you do. 
Every firstling that is born in your herd and in your flock—you sanctify the male to your God YHWH; you do not work with the firstling of your ox, nor shear the firstling of your flock; 
you eat it before your God YHWH year by year, in the place which YHWH chooses, you and your house. 
And when there is a blemish in it, or it is lame or blind, or has any evil blemish, you do not sacrifice it to your God YHWH; 
you eat it within your gates, the unclean and the clean alike, as the roe and as the deer. 
Only, you do not eat its blood—you pour it on the earth as water.” 
