1 Samuel.
Chapter 8.
And it comes to pass, when Samuel is aged, that he makes his sons judges over Israel. 
And the name of his firstborn son is Joel, and the name of his second Abiah, judges in Beer-Sheba: 
and his sons have not walked in his ways, and turn aside after the dishonest gain, and take a bribe, and turn aside judgment. 
And all the elderly of Israel gather themselves together, and come to Samuel at Ramath, 
and say to him, “Behold, you have become aged, and your sons have not walked in your ways; now, appoint a king to us, to judge us, like all the nations.” 
And the thing is evil in the eyes of Samuel when they have said, “Give a king to us, to judge us”; and Samuel prays to YHWH. 
And YHWH says to Samuel, “Listen to the voice of the people, to all that they say to you, for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected Me from reigning over them. 
According to all the works that they have done from the day of My bringing them up out of Egypt, even to this day, when they forsake Me, and serve other gods—so they are also doing to you. 
And now, listen to their voice; only, surely you certainly protest to them, and have declared to them the custom of the king who reigns over them.” 
And Samuel speaks all the words of YHWH to the people who are asking for a king from him, 
and says, “This is the custom of the king who reigns over you: he takes your sons, and has appointed for himself among his chariots, and among his horsemen, and they have run before his chariots; 
also to appoint for himself heads of thousands, and heads of fifties; also to plow his plowing, and to reap his reaping; and to make instruments of his war, and instruments of his charioteer. 
And he takes your daughters for perfumers, and for cooks, and for bakers; 
and your fields, and your vineyards, and your olive-yards—he takes the best, and has given to his servants. 
And he tithes your seed and your vineyards, and has given to his eunuchs, and to his servants. 
And your menservants and your maidservants, and the best of your young men and your donkeys, he takes, and has prepared for his own work; 
he tithes your flock, and you are for servants to him. 
And you have cried out in that day because of the king whom you have chosen for yourselves, and YHWH does not answer you in that day.” 
And the people refuse to listen to the voice of Samuel, and say, “No, but a king is over us, 
and we have been, even we, like all the nations; and our king has judged us, and gone out before us, and fought our battles.” 
And Samuel hears all the words of the people, and speaks them in the ears of YHWH; 
and YHWH says to Samuel, “Listen to their voice, and you have caused a king to reign over them.” And Samuel says to the men of Israel, “Go, each man, to his city.” 
