1 Corinthians.
Chapter 16.
And concerning the collection that is for the holy ones, as I directed to the assemblies of Galatia, so also you—do; 
on every first day of the week, let each one of you lay by him, treasuring up whatever he may have prospered, that when I may come then collections may not be made; 
and whenever I may come, whomsoever you may approve, through letters, these I will send to carry your favor to Jerusalem; 
and if it be worthy for me also to go, with me they will go. 
And I will come to you when I pass through Macedonia—for I pass through Macedonia— 
and with you, it may be, I will abide, or even winter, that you may send me forward wherever I go, 
for I do not wish to see you now in the passing, but I hope to remain a certain time with you, if the LORD may permit; 
and I will remain in Ephesus until the Pentecost, 
for a door has been opened to me—great and effectual—and withstanders are many. 
And if Timotheus may come, see that he may become without fear with you, for he works the work of the LORD, even as I, 
no one, then, may despise him; and send him forward in peace, that he may come to me, for I expect him with the brothers; 
and concerning Apollos our brother, I begged him much that he may come to you with the brothers, and it was not at all his will that he may come now, and he will come when he may find convenient. 
Watch, stand in the faith; be men, be strong; 
let all your things be done in love. 
And I beg you, brothers, you have known the household of Stephanas, that it is the first-fruit of Achaia, and they set themselves to the ministry to the holy ones— 
that you also be subject to such, and to everyone who is working with us and laboring; 
and I rejoice over the coming of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus, because these filled up the lack of you; 
for they refreshed my spirit and yours; acknowledge, therefore, those who are such. 
The assemblies of Asia greet you; Aquilas and Priscilla greet you much in the LORD, with the assembly in their house; 
all the brothers greet you; greet one another in a holy kiss. 
The salutation of me, Paul, with my hand; 
if anyone does not cherish the Lord Jesus Christ—let him be accursed! The LORD has come! 
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ is with you; 
my love is with you all in Christ Jesus! Amen.
