Matthew.
Chapter 16.
And the Pharisees and Sadducees having come, tempting, questioned Him, to show to them a sign from Heaven, 
and He answering said to them, “Evening having come, you say, Fair weather, for the sky is red, 
and at morning, Foul weather today, for the sky is red—gloomy; hypocrites, you indeed know to discern the face of the sky, but the signs of the times you are not able! 
An evil and adulterous generation seeks a sign, and a sign will not be given to it, except the sign of Jonah the prophet”; and having left them He went away. 
And His disciples having come to the other side, forgot to take loaves, 
and Jesus said to them, “Beware, and take heed of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees”; 
and they were reasoning in themselves, saying, “Because we took no loaves.” 
And Jesus having known, said to them, “Why reason you in yourselves, you of little faith, because you took no loaves? 
Do you not yet understand, nor remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many hand-baskets you took up? 
Nor the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many baskets you took up? 
How do you not understand that I did not speak to you of bread—to take heed of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees?” 
Then they understood that He did not say to take heed of the leaven of the bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees. 
And Jesus, having come to the parts of Caesarea Philippi, was asking His disciples, saying, “Who do men say I am—the Son of Man?” 
And they said, “Some, John the Immerser, and others, Elijah, and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.” 
He says to them, “And you—who do you say I am?” 
And Simon Peter answering said, “You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.” 
And Jesus answering said to him, “Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jona, because flesh and blood did not reveal it to you, but My Father who is in the heavens. 
And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build My Assembly, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it; 
and I will give to you the keys of the kingdom of the heavens, and whatever you may bind on the earth will be having been bound in the heavens, and whatever you may loose on the earth will be having been loosed in the heavens.” 
Then He charged His disciples that they may say to no one that He is Jesus the Christ. 
From that time Jesus began to show to His disciples that it is necessary for Him to go away to Jerusalem, and to suffer many things from the elders, and chief priests, and scribes, and to be put to death, and the third day to rise. 
And having taken Him aside, Peter began to rebuke Him, saying, “Be kind to Yourself, Lord; this will not be to You”; 
and He having turned, said to Peter, “Get behind Me, Satan! You are a stumbling-block to Me, for you do not mind the things of God, but the things of men.” 
Then Jesus said to His disciples, “If anyone wills to come after Me, let him disown himself, and take up his cross, and follow Me, 
for whoever may will to save his life will lose it, and whoever may lose his life for My sake will find it; 
for what is a man profited if he may gain the whole world, but of his life suffer loss? Or what will a man give as an exchange for his life? 
For the Son of Man is about to come in the glory of His Father, with His messengers, and then He will reward each according to his work. 
Truly I say to you, there are certain of those standing here who will not taste of death until they may see the Son of Man coming in His kingdom.” 
