2 Kings.
Chapter 15.
In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Azariah son of Amaziah, king of Judah, has reigned; 
he was a son of sixteen years in his reigning, and he has reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother is Jecholiah of Jerusalem, 
and he does that which is right in the eyes of YHWH, according to all that his father Amaziah did, 
only, the high places have not been removed—the people are still sacrificing and making incense in high places. 
And YHWH strikes the king, and he is a leper to the day of his death, and he dwells in a separate house, and Jotham son of the king is over the house, judging the people of the land. 
And the rest of the matters of Azariah and all that he did, are they not written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? 
And Azariah lies with his fathers, and they bury him with his fathers in the city of David, and his son Jotham reigns in his stead. 
In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zechariah son of Jeroboam has reigned over Israel in Samaria, six months, 
and he does evil in the eyes of YHWH as his fathers did; he has not turned aside from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat that he caused Israel to sin. 
And Shallum son of Jabesh conspires against him, and strikes him before the people, and puts him to death, and reigns in his stead. 
And the rest of the matters of Zechariah, behold, they are written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel. 
It is the word of YHWH that He spoke to Jehu, saying, “Sons of the fourth generation sit on the throne of Israel for you”; and it is so. 
Shallum son of Jabesh has reigned in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah, and he reigns a month of days in Samaria; 
and Menahem son of Gadi goes up from Tirzah and comes to Samaria, and strikes Shallum son of Jabesh in Samaria, and puts him to death, and reigns in his stead. 
And the rest of the matters of Shallum and his conspiracy that he made, behold, they are written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel. 
Then Menahem strikes Tiphsah, and all who are in it, and its borders from Tirzah, for it did not open to him, and he strikes it, and he has ripped up all its pregnant women. 
In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem son of Gadi has reigned over Israel in Samaria, ten years. 
And he does evil in the eyes of YHWH; he has not turned aside from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat that he caused Israel to sin, all his days. 
Pul king of Asshur has come against the land, and Menahem gives one thousand talents of silver to Pul, for his hand being with him to strengthen the kingdom in his hand. 
And Menahem brings out the silver from Israel, from all the mighty men of wealth, to give to the king of Asshur, fifty shekels of silver for each one, and the king of Asshur turns back and has not stayed there in the land. 
And the rest of the matters of Menahem and all that he did, are they not written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? 
And Menahem lies with his fathers, and his son Pekahiah reigns in his stead. 
In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah son of Menahem has reigned over Israel in Samaria, two years, 
and he does evil in the eyes of YHWH; he has not turned aside from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat that he caused Israel to sin. 
And Pekah son of Remaliah, his captain, conspires against him, and strikes him in Samaria, in the high place of the house of the king with Argob and Arieh; and fifty men of the sons of the Gileadites were with him, and he puts him to death, and reigns in his stead. 
And the rest of the matters of Pekahiah and all that he did, behold, they are written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel. 
In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekah son of Remaliah has reigned over Israel in Samaria, twenty years, 
and he does evil in the eyes of YHWH, he has not turned aside from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat that he caused Israel to sin. 
In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-Pileser king of Asshur has come, and takes Ijon, and Abel-Beth-Maachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and removes them to Asshur. 
And Hoshea son of Elah makes a conspiracy against Pekah son of Remaliah, and strikes him, and puts him to death, and reigns in his stead, in the twentieth year of Jotham son of Uzziah. 
And the rest of the matters of Pekah and all that he did, behold, they are written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel. 
In the second year of Pekah son of Remaliah, king of Israel, Jotham son of Uzziah, king of Judah, has reigned. 
He was a son of twenty-five years in his reigning, and he has reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother is Jerusha daughter of Zadok, 
and he does that which is right in the eyes of YHWH; he has done according to all that his father Uzziah did. 
Only, the high places have not been removed—the people are still sacrificing and making incense in high places; he has built the high gate of the house of YHWH. 
And the rest of the matters of Jotham and all that he did, are they not written on the scroll of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? 
In those days YHWH has begun to send Rezin king of Amram and Pekah son of Remaliah against Judah. 
And Jotham lies with his fathers, and is buried with his fathers in the city of his father David, and his son Ahaz reigns in his stead. 
