Exodus.
Chapter 9.
And YHWH says to Moses, “Go to Pharaoh, and you have spoken to him, Thus said YHWH, God of the Hebrews: Send My people away, and they serve Me, 
for if you are refusing to send them away, and are still keeping hold on them, 
behold, the hand of YHWH is on your livestock which are in the field, on horses, on donkeys, on camels, on herd, and on flock—a very grievous pestilence. 
And YHWH has separated between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt, and there does not die a thing of all the sons of Israel; 
and YHWH sets an appointed time, saying, Tomorrow YHWH does this thing in the land.” 
And YHWH does this thing on the next day, and all the livestock of Egypt die, and of the livestock of the sons of Israel not one has died; 
and Pharaoh sends, and behold, not even one of the livestock of Israel has died, and the heart of Pharaoh is hard, and he has not sent the people away. 
And YHWH says to Moses and to Aaron, “Take for yourselves the fullness of your handfuls—soot of a furnace, and Moses has sprinkled it toward the heavens, before the eyes of Pharaoh, 
and it has become small dust over all the land of Egypt, and it has become on man and on livestock a boil breaking forth with blisters in all the land of Egypt.” 
And they take the soot of the furnace, and stand before Pharaoh, and Moses sprinkles it toward the heavens, and it is a boil with blisters breaking forth on man and on beast; 
and the enchanters have not been able to stand before Moses because of the boil, for the boil has been on the enchanters, and on all the Egyptians. 
And YHWH strengthens the heart of Pharaoh, and he has not listened to them, as YHWH has spoken to Moses. 
And YHWH says to Moses, “Rise early in the morning, and station yourself before Pharaoh, and you have said to him, Thus said YHWH, God of the Hebrews: Send My people away, and they serve Me, 
for at this time I am sending all My plagues to your heart, and on your servants, and on your people, so that you know that there is none like Me in all the earth, 
for now I have put forth My hand, and I strike you, and your people, with pestilence, and you are hidden from the earth. 
And yet for this I have caused you to stand, so as to show you My power, and for the sake of declaring My Name in all the earth; 
still you are exalting yourself against My people—so as not to send them away; 
behold, I am raining very grievous hail about this time tomorrow, such as has not been in Egypt from the day of its founding and until now. 
And now, send, strengthen your livestock and all that you have in the field; every man and beast which is found in the field, and is not gathered into the house—the hail has come down on them, and they have died.” 
He who is fearing the word of YHWH among the servants of Pharaoh has caused his servants and his livestock to flee to the houses; 
and he who has not set his heart to the word of YHWH leaves his servants and his livestock in the field. 
And YHWH says to Moses, “Stretch forth your hand toward the heavens, and there is hail in all the land of Egypt, on man, and on beast, and on every herb of the field in the land of Egypt.” 
And Moses stretches out his rod toward the heavens, and YHWH has given voices and hail, and fire goes toward the earth, and YHWH rains hail on the land of Egypt, 
and there is hail, and fire catching itself in the midst of the hail, very grievous, such as has not been in all the land of Egypt since it has become a nation. 
And the hail strikes all that is in the field in all the land of Egypt, from man even to beast, and the hail has struck every herb of the field, and it has broken every tree of the field; 
only in the land of Goshen, where the sons of Israel are, there has been no hail. 
And Pharaoh sends, and calls for Moses and for Aaron, and says to them, “I have sinned this time—YHWH is the righteous, and I and my people are the wicked, 
make supplication to YHWH, and plead that there be no voices of God and hail, and I send you away, and you do not add to remain.” 
And Moses says to him, “At my going out of the city, I spread my palms to YHWH—the voices cease, and there is no more hail, so that you know that the earth is YHWH’s; 
but you and your servants—I have known that you are not yet afraid of the face of YHWH God.” 
And the flax and the barley have been struck, for the barley is budding, and the flax forming flowers, 
and the wheat and the rye have not been struck, for they are late. 
And Moses goes out from Pharaoh, from the city, and spreads his hands to YHWH, and the voices and the hail cease, and rain has not been poured out to the earth; 
and Pharaoh sees that the rain has ceased, and the hail and the voices, and he continues to sin, and hardens his heart, he and his servants; 
and the heart of Pharaoh is strong, and he has not sent the sons of Israel away, as YHWH has spoken by the hand of Moses. 
