Judges.
Chapter 17.
And there is a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name is Micah, 
and he says to his mother, “The eleven hundred pieces of silver which have been taken of yours, and of which you have sworn, and also spoken in my ears; behold, the silver is with me, I have taken it”; and his mother says, “Blessed is my son of YHWH.” 
And he gives back the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother says, “I had certainly sanctified the silver to YHWH, from my hand, for my son, to make a carved image, and a molten image; and now, I give it back to you.” 
And he gives back the money to his mother, and his mother takes two hundred pieces of silver, and gives them to a refiner, and he makes them a carved image, and a molten image, and it is in the house of Micah. 
As for the man Micah, he has a house of gods, and he makes an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrates the hand of one of his sons, and he is for a priest to him; 
in those days there is no king in Israel, each does that which is right in his own eyes. 
And there is a young man of Beth-Lehem-Judah, of the family of Judah, and he is a Levite, and he is a sojourner there. 
And the man goes out of the city, out of Beth-Lehem-Judah, to sojourn where he finds, and comes to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to work his way. 
And Micah says to him, “Where do you come from?” And he says to him, “I am a Levite of Beth-Lehem-Judah, and I am going to sojourn where I find.” 
And Micah says to him, “Dwell with me, and be for a father and for a priest to me, and I give ten pieces of silver to you for the days, and a suit of garments, and your sustenance”; and the Levite goes in. 
And the Levite is willing to dwell with the man, and the young man is to him as one of his sons. 
And Micah consecrates the hand of the Levite, and the young man is for a priest to him, and he is in the house of Micah, 
and Micah says, “Now I have known that YHWH does good to me, for the Levite has been for a priest to me.” 
