Mark.
Chapter 3.
And He entered again into the synagogue, and there was there a man having the hand withered, 
and they were watching Him, whether on the Sabbaths He will heal him, that they might accuse Him. 
And He says to the man having the hand withered, “Rise up in the midst.” 
And He says to them, “Is it lawful on the Sabbaths to do good, or to do evil? To save life, or to kill?” But they were silent. 
And having looked around on them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their heart, He says to the man, “Stretch forth your hand”; and he stretched forth, and his hand was restored whole as the other; 
and the Pharisees having gone forth, immediately, with the Herodians, were taking counsel against Him how they might destroy Him. 
And Jesus withdrew with His disciples to the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed Him, and from Judea, 
and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea and beyond the Jordan; and they around Tyre and Sidon—a great multitude—having heard how He was doing great things, came to Him. 
And He said to His disciples that a little boat may wait on Him, because of the multitude, that they may not press on Him, 
for He healed many, so that they threw themselves on Him, in order to touch Him—as many as had plagues; 
and the unclean spirits, when they were seeing Him, were falling down before Him, and were crying, saying, “You are the Son of God”; 
and many times He was charging them that they might not make Him apparent. 
And He goes up to the mountain, and calls near whom He willed, and they went away to Him; 
and He appointed twelve, that they may be with Him, and that He may send them forth to preach, 
and to have power to heal the sicknesses, and to cast out the demons. 
And He put on Simon the name Peter; 
and James of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, and He put on them names—Boanerges, that is, “Sons of thunder”; 
and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James of Alpheus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Zealot, 
and Judas Iscariot, who also delivered Him up; and they come into a house. 
And a multitude comes together again, so that they are not even able to eat bread; 
and those alongside Him having heard, went forth to lay hold on Him, for they said that He was beside Himself, 
and the scribes who are from Jerusalem having come down, said, “He has Beelzebul,” and, “By the ruler of the demons He casts out the demons.” 
And having called them near, He said to them in allegories, “How is Satan able to cast out Satan? 
And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot be made to stand; 
and if a house is divided against itself, that house cannot be made to stand; 
and if Satan rose against himself, and has been divided, he cannot be made to stand, but has an end. 
No one is able to spoil the vessels of the strong man, having entered into his house, if first he may not bind the strong man, and then he will spoil his house. 
Truly I say to you that all sins will be forgiven to the sons of men, and slanders with which they might have slandered, 
but whoever may slander in regard to the Holy Spirit has no forgiveness—throughout the age, but is in danger of continuous judgment; 
because they said, He has an unclean spirit.” 
Then His brothers and mother come, and standing outside, they sent to Him, calling Him, 
and a multitude was sitting around Him, and they said to Him, “Behold, Your mother and Your brothers seek You outside.” 
And He answered them, saying, “Who is My mother, or My brothers?” 
And having looked around in a circle to those sitting around Him, He says, “Behold, My mother and My brothers! 
For whoever may do the will of God, he is My brother, and My sister, and mother.” 
