Leviticus.
Chapter 22.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to Aaron and to his sons, and they are separated from the holy things of the sons of Israel, and they do not defile My holy Name in what they are hallowing to Me; I am YHWH. 
Say to them: Throughout your generations, any man who draws near, out of all your seed, to the holy things which the sons of Israel sanctify to YHWH, and his uncleanness is on him—indeed, that person has been cut off from before My face; I am YHWH. 
Any man of the seed of Aaron, and he is leprous or has discharging—he does not eat of the holy things until he is clean; and he who is coming against any uncleanness of a person, or a man whose seed from intercourse goes out from him, 
or a man who comes against any teeming thing which is unclean to him, or against a man who is unclean to him, even any of his uncleanness— 
the person who comes against it has even been unclean until the evening, and does not eat of the holy things, but has bathed his flesh with water, 
and the sun has gone in, and he has been clean, and afterward he eats of the holy things, for it is his food; 
he does not eat a carcass or torn thing, to become unclean with it; I am YHWH. 
And they have kept My charge, and bear no sin for it, that they have died for it when they defile it; I am YHWH sanctifying them. 
And no stranger eats of the holy thing; a settler with a priest and a hired worker does not eat of the holy thing; 
but when a priest buys a person, the purchase of his money, he eats of it, also one born in his house; they eat of his bread. 
And a priest’s daughter, when she is a strange man’s, she does not eat of the raised-offering of the holy things; 
but a priest’s daughter, when she is a widow, or cast out, and has no seed, and has turned back to the house of her father, as in her youth, she eats of her father’s bread; but no stranger eats of it. 
And when a man eats of a holy thing through ignorance, then he has added its fifth part to it, and has given it to the priest, with the holy thing; 
and they do not defile the holy things of the sons of Israel—that which they lift up to YHWH, 
or have caused them to bear the iniquity of the guilt-offering in their eating their holy things; for I am YHWH, sanctifying them.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel, and you have said to them: Any man of the house of Israel, or of the sojourners in Israel, who brings his offering near, of all his vows, or of all his willing offerings which they bring near to YHWH for a burnt-offering— 
you bring near at your pleasure a perfect one, a male of the herd, of the sheep or of the goats; 
nothing in which is blemish do you bring near, for it is not for a pleasing thing for you. 
And when a man brings a sacrifice of peace-offerings near to YHWH, to complete a special vow, or for a willing-offering, of the herd or of the flock, it is perfect for a pleasing thing: no blemish is in it. 
Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having an oozing sore or a defect of the eye, or itch, or scab—you do not bring these near to YHWH, and you do not make a fire-offering from them on the altar to YHWH. 
As for an ox or sheep that is deformed or stunted—you make it a willing-offering, but it is not pleasing for a vow. 
As for bruised, or beaten, or torn, or cut—you do not bring it near to YHWH; and in your land you do not do it. 
And you do not bring the bread of your God near from the hand of a son of a stranger, from any of these, for their corruption is in them; blemish is in them; they are not pleasing for you.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“When ox, or lamb, or goat is born, and it has been under its mother for seven days, then from the eighth day and from now on, it is pleasing for an offering, a fire-offering to YHWH; 
but an ox or sheep—you do not slaughter it and its young one in one day. 
And when you sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving to YHWH, you sacrifice at your pleasure; 
it is eaten on that day—you do not leave of it until morning; I am YHWH. 
And you have kept my commands and have done them; I am YHWH; 
and you do not defile My holy Name, and I have been hallowed in the midst of the sons of Israel; I am YHWH, sanctifying you, 
who am bringing you up out of the land of Egypt, to become your God; I am YHWH.” 
