Psalm.
Chapter 118.
Praise the LORD because he is good! His faithful love will last forever! 
Israel, say it: “His faithful love will last forever!” 
Aaron’s family, say it: “His faithful love will last forever!” 
You people worshiping the LORD, say it: “His faithful love will last forever!” 
I was in trouble, so I called to the LORD for help. The LORD answered and made me free. 
The LORD is with me, so I will not be afraid. No one on earth can do anything to harm me. 
The LORD is my helper. I will see my enemies defeated. 
It is better to trust in the LORD than to trust in people. 
It is better to trust in the LORD than to trust in great leaders. 
Many enemies surrounded me, but with the LORD’S power I defeated them. 
They surrounded me again and again, but I defeated them with the LORD’S power. 
They surrounded me like a swarm of bees, but they were quickly destroyed like a fast-burning bush. I defeated them with the LORD’S power. 
My enemy attacked me and almost destroyed me, but the LORD helped me. 
The LORD is my strength and my reason for singing. He saved me! 
You can hear the victory celebration in the homes of those who live right. The LORD has shown his great power again! 
The LORD’S arm is raised in victory. The LORD has shown his great power again. 
I will live and not die, and I will tell what the LORD has done. 
The LORD punished me, but he did not let me die. 
Gates of goodness, open for me, and I will come in and worship the LORD. 
Those are the LORD’S gates, and only good people can go through them. 
Lord, I thank you for answering my prayer. I thank you for saving me. 
The stone that the builders rejected became the cornerstone. 
The LORD made this happen, and we think it is wonderful! 
This is the day the LORD has made. Let us rejoice and be happy today! 
The people say, “Praise the LORD! The LORD saved us! 
Welcome to the one who comes in the name of the LORD.” The priests answer, “We welcome you to the LORD’S house! 
The LORD is God, and he accepts us. Tie up the lamb for the sacrifice and carry it to the horns of the altar.” 
Lord, you are my God, and I thank you. My God, I praise you! 
Praise the LORD because he is good. His faithful love will last forever. 
