Hosea.
Chapter 4.
People of Israel, listen to the LORD’S message. The LORD has something to say against those who live in this land: “The people in this land are not honest or loyal. They don’t really know God. 
They are always cursing, lying, killing, stealing, and committing adultery. They murder one person after another. 
So the country is like someone crying for the dead, and all of its people are weak. Even the animals of the field, the birds of the sky, and the fish in the sea are dying. 
No one should argue or blame another person. Priests, my argument is with you! 
You priests will fall in the daytime. And at night the prophet will also fall with you. I will also destroy your mother. 
“My people are destroyed because they have no knowledge. You priests have refused to learn, so I will refuse to let you be priests for me. You have forgotten the law of your God, so I will forget your children. 
They became proud. They sinned more and more against me, so I will change their honor to shame. 
“The priests fed on the people’s sins. They wanted more and more of their sin offerings. 
So the priests are no different from the people. I will punish them for the things they did. I will pay them back for the wrong things they did. 
They will eat, but they will not be satisfied. They will commit sexual sins, but they will not have babies. This is because they left the LORD and became like prostitutes. 
“Sexual sins, strong drink, and new wine ruin a person’s ability to think straight. 
My people are asking pieces of wood for advice. They think those sticks will answer them! They have chased after those false gods like prostitutes and have left their own God. 
They make sacrifices on the tops of the mountains and burn incense on the hills under oak trees, poplar trees, and elm trees. The shade under those trees looks nice. So your daughters lie under those trees like prostitutes, and your daughters-in-law commit sexual sins. 
“I cannot blame your daughters or your daughters-in-law for doing this, because your men go and have sex with the temple prostitutes and offer sacrifices with them. This is how foolish people destroy themselves. 
“Israel, just because you act like a prostitute doesn’t mean that Judah should feel guilty too. People, don’t go to Gilgal or Beth Aven. Don’t use the Lord’s name to make promises. Don’t say, ‘As the LORD lives …!’ 
The LORD has given many things to Israel. He is like a shepherd who takes his sheep to a large field with plenty of grass. But Israel is stubborn like a young cow that runs away again and again. 
“Ephraim has joined his idols, so leave him alone. 
Ephraim has joined their drunkenness. Let them continue to be prostitutes. Let them be with their lovers. 
They went to those gods for safety, and they have lost their ability to think. Their altars will bring them shame. 
