Hebrews.
Chapter 10.
The law gave us only an unclear picture of the good things coming in the future. The law is not a perfect picture of the real things. The law tells people to offer the same sacrifices every year. Those who come to worship God continue to offer those sacrifices. But the law can never make them perfect. 
If the law could make people perfect, those sacrifices would have already stopped. They would already be clean from their sins, and they would not still feel guilty. 
But that’s not what happens. Their sacrifices make them remember their sins every year, 
because it is not possible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. 
So when Christ came into the world he said, “You don’t want sacrifices and offerings, but you have prepared a body for me. 
You are not pleased with the sacrifices of animals killed and burned or with offerings to take away sins. 
Then I said, ‘Here I am, God. It is written about me in the book of the law. I have come to do what you want.’” 
Christ first said, “You don’t want sacrifices and offerings. You are not pleased with animals killed and burned or with sacrifices to take away sin.” (These are all sacrifices that the law commands.) 
Then he said, “Here I am, God. I have come to do what you want.” So God ends that first system of sacrifices and starts his new way. 
Jesus Christ did the things God wanted him to do. And because of that, we are made holy through the sacrifice of Christ’s body. Christ made that sacrifice one time—enough for all time. 
Every day the priests stand and do their religious service. Again and again they offer the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. 
But Christ offered only one sacrifice for sins, and that sacrifice is good for all time. Then he sat down at the right side of God. 
And now Christ waits there for his enemies to be put under his power. 
With one sacrifice Christ made his people perfect forever. They are the ones who are being made holy. 
The Holy Spirit also tells us about this. First he says, 
“This is the agreement I will make with my people in the future, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their hearts. I will write my laws in their minds.” 
Then he says, “I will forget their sins and never again remember the evil they have done.” 
And after everything is forgiven, there is no more need for a sacrifice to pay for sins. 
And so, brothers and sisters, we are completely free to enter the Most Holy Place. We can do this without fear because of the blood sacrifice of Jesus. 
We enter through a new way that Jesus opened for us. It is a living way that leads through the curtain—Christ’s body. 
And we have a great priest who rules the house of God. 
Sprinkled with the blood of Christ, our hearts have been made free from a guilty conscience, and our bodies have been washed with pure water. So come near to God with a sincere heart, full of confidence because of our faith in Christ. 
We must hold on to the hope we have, never hesitating to tell people about it. We can trust God to do what he promised. 
We should think about each other to see how we can encourage each other to show love and do good works. 
We must not quit meeting together, as some are doing. No, we need to keep on encouraging each other. This becomes more and more important as you see the Day getting closer. 
If we decide to continue sinning after we have learned the truth, then there is no other sacrifice that will take away sins. 
If we continue sinning, all that is left for us is a fearful time of waiting for the judgment and the angry fire that will destroy those who live against God. 
Whoever refused to obey the Law of Moses was found guilty from the testimony given by two or three witnesses. Such people were not forgiven. They were killed. 
So think how much more punishment people deserve who show their hate for the Son of God—people who show they have no respect for the blood sacrifice that began the new agreement and once made them holy or who insult the Spirit of God’s grace. 
We know that God said, “I will punish people for the wrongs they do; I will repay them.” And he also said, “The Lord will judge his people.” 
It is a terrible thing to face punishment from the living God. 
Remember the days when you first learned the truth. You had a hard struggle with much suffering, but you continued strong. 
Sometimes people said hateful things to you and mistreated you in public. And sometimes you helped others who were being treated that same way. 
Yes, you helped them in prison and shared in their suffering. And you were still happy when everything you owned was taken away from you. You continued to be happy, because you knew that you had something much better—something that would continue forever. 
So don’t lose the courage that you had in the past. Your courage will be rewarded richly. 
You must be patient. After you have done what God wants, you will get what he promised you. 
He says, “Very soon now, the one who is coming will come and will not be late. 
The person who is right with me will live by trusting in me. But I will not be pleased with the one who turns back in fear.” 
But we are not those who turn back and are lost. No, we are the people who have faith and are saved. 
