Proverbs.
Chapter 10.
These are the proverbs of Solomon: A wise son makes his father happy; a foolish one makes his mother sad. 
Wealth gained by doing wrong will not really help you, but doing right will save you from death. 
The LORD takes care of good people and gives them the food they need, but he keeps the wicked from getting what they want. 
Lazy hands will make you poor; hard-working hands will make you rich. 
A son who works hard while it is harvest time will be successful, but one who sleeps through the harvest is worthless. 
People say good things about those who live right, but the words of the wicked only hide their violent plans. 
Good people leave memories that bless us, but the wicked are soon forgotten. 
The wise accept instruction, but fools argue and bring trouble on themselves. 
Honest people can always feel secure, but lying cheaters will be caught. 
If you fail to speak the truth, trouble will follow. If you speak openly, peace will come. 
The words of good people are like a spring of fresh water, but the words of the wicked only hide their violent plans. 
Hatred causes arguments, but love overlooks all wrongs. 
Intelligent people speak words of wisdom, but fools must be punished before they learn their lesson. 
Wise people are quiet and learn new things, but fools talk and bring trouble on themselves. 
Wealth protects the rich, but poverty destroys the poor. 
What good people do brings life, but wicked people produce only sin. 
Those who accept correction show others how to live. Those who reject correction lead others the wrong way. 
People sometimes lie to hide their hatred, but saying bad things about someone is even more foolish. 
A person who talks too much gets into trouble. A wise person learns to be quiet. 
Words from good people are like pure silver, but thoughts from the wicked are worthless. 
Good people say things that help others, but the wicked die from a lack of understanding. 
It is the LORD’S blessing that brings wealth, and no hard work can add to it. 
Fools enjoy doing wrong, but the wise enjoy wisdom. 
The wicked will be defeated by what they fear, but good people will get what they want. 
The wicked are destroyed when trouble comes, but good people stand strong forever. 
Sending a lazy person to do anything is as irritating as vinegar on your teeth or smoke in your eyes. 
Respect for the LORD will add years to your life, but the wicked will have their lives cut short. 
What good people hope for brings happiness, but what the wicked hope for brings destruction. 
The LORD protects those who do right, but he destroys those who do wrong. 
Good people will always be safe, but the wicked will be forced out of the land. 
Those who live right say wise things, but people stop listening to troublemakers. 
Good people know the right things to say, but the wicked say things to make trouble. 
