1 Chronicles.
Chapter 3.
Some of David’s sons were born in the town of Hebron. This is a list of David’s sons: David’s first son was Amnon. Amnon’s mother was Ahinoam. She was from the town of Jezreel. The second son was Daniel. His mother was Abigail from Carmel in Judah. 
The third son was Absalom. His mother was Maacah, daughter of Talmai. Talmai was the king of Geshur. The fourth son was Adonijah. His mother was Haggith. 
The fifth son was Shephatiah. His mother was Abital. The sixth son was Ithream. His mother was Eglah, David’s wife. 
These six sons were born to David in Hebron. David ruled as king in Hebron for seven years and six months. He ruled as king in Jerusalem 33 years. 
These are the children born to David in Jerusalem: There were four sons from Bathsheba, the daughter of Ammiel. They were Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon. 
There were nine other sons. They were Ibhar, Elishua, Eliphelet, Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet. 
They were all David’s sons. Their sister was named Tamar. David also had other sons by his slave women. 
Solomon’s son was Rehoboam. Rehoboam’s son was Abijah. Abijah’s son was Asa. Asa’s son was Jehoshaphat. 
Jehoshaphat’s son was Jehoram. Jehoram’s son was Ahaziah. Ahaziah’s son was Joash. 
Joash’s son was Amaziah. Amaziah’s son was Azariah. Azariah’s son was Jotham. 
Jotham’s son was Ahaz. Ahaz’s son was Hezekiah. Hezekiah’s son was Manasseh. 
Manasseh’s son was Amon. Amon’s son was Josiah. 
This is a list of Josiah’s sons: The first son was Johanan. The second son was Jehoiakim. The third son was Zedekiah. The fourth son was Shallum. 
Jehoiakim’s sons were Jehoiachin, his son, and Zedekiah, his son. 
This is a list of Jehoiachin’s children after Jehoiachin became a prisoner in Babylon: His children were Shealtiel, 
Malkiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah. 
Pedaiah’s sons were Zerubbabel and Shimei. Zerubbabel’s sons were Meshullam and Hananiah. Shelomith was their sister. 
Zerubbabel had five other sons also. Their names were Hashubah, Ohel, Berekiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab Hesed. 
Hananiah’s son was Pelatiah. His son was Jeshaiah. His son was Rephaiah. His son was Arnan. His son was Obadiah. His son was Shecaniah. 
This is a list of Shecaniah’s descendants: Shemaiah. Shemaiah had six sons: Shemaiah, Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat. 
Neariah had three sons. They were Elioenai, Hizkiah, and Azrikam. 
Elioenai had seven sons. They were Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani. 
