2 Timothy.
Chapter 2.
So you, my son, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus. 
Also, the things that you have heard from me among many witnesses, commit the same to faithful men who will be competent to teach others also. 
You therefore are to endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. 
No one serving as a soldier gets entangled in the affairs of civilian life; he wants to please the one who enlisted him. 
Further, if anyone competes in athletics, he is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules 
—the hardworking farmer should be the first to receive of the fruits. 
Ponder what I am saying; may the Lord indeed give you understanding in it all. 
Keep thinking of Jesus Christ, raised from the dead, of David's seed; this is my gospel, 
for which I am suffering to the point of being in chains like a criminal, but the Word of God is not chained. 
This is why I endure it all: for the sake of the chosen ones, that they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus, with eternal glory. 
This is a trustworthy word: If, indeed, we died together, we will also live together; 
if we endure, we will also reign together; if we deny, He will also deny us; 
if we are faithless, He remains faithful —He is incapable of denying Himself. 
Keep reiterating these things, exhorting them before the Lord not to argue about words to no useful purpose—it just ruins the hearers. 
Make every effort to render yourself approved by God, a worker who does not need to be ashamed, handling the Word of the Truth correctly. 
But shun godless, empty chatter, because those who do it will become increasingly godless, 
and their word will spread like gangrene—among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus, 
who have wandered away from the Truth, saying that the resurrection has already occurred; and they overturn the faith of some. 
Nevertheless, the solid foundation of God stands firm, having this seal: “The Lord knows those who are His,” and let everyone who claims the name of the Lord keep away from unrighteousness. 
Now in a large house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay; some, to be sure, are for honor, but some are for dishonor. 
So if anyone cleanses himself from the latter, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified and useful to the Master, prepared for every good work. 
Flee the lusts of youth; but pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace, along with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart. 
Refuse foolish and ignorant arguments, knowing that they breed quarrels. 
Now a slave of the Lord should not quarrel but be gentle towards all, skillful at teaching, forbearing, 
correcting courteously those who oppose him, in hopes that God may grant them repentance leading to a real knowledge of Truth, 
and that they may retrieve their senses out of the devil's snare (having been taken captive by him to do his will). 
