2 Corinthians.
Chapter 10.
Now I, Paul, am myself appealing to you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ (I who am ‘humble when present’ among you, but ‘bold when absent’ toward you). 
Yes, I beg you, that when I am present I may not have to be bold with the confidence that I will ‘dare’ to visit upon some who think that we are walking in a fleshly manner. 
Well, we do walk about in flesh, but we do not wage war that way, 
because the weapons of our warfare are not physical, but are powerful in God for demolishing strongholds: 
demolishing sophistries and every arrogance that sets itself up against the knowledge of God; taking captive every thought to make it obedient to Christ; 
being ready to punish every act of disobedience, whenever your obedience is complete. 
Do you only look at the ‘face’ of things? If anyone has persuaded himself that he is Christ's, let him consider this again with himself, that just as he is Christ's, so also we are Christ's. 
Now even if I boast a little to excess about our authority (which the Lord gave us for building up, not to tear you down), I will not act ashamed, 
so as not to appear to agree that it is only with letters that I ‘terrify’ you. 
Because some say, “His letters are ‘heavy’ and forceful, but his physical presence is weak, and his speech can be disdained.” 
Let such a person consider this, that what we are in word by letters while absent is just what we will be in action when present. 
Now we do not dare to class or compare ourselves with some who commend themselves; but they, measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves with themselves, are without understanding. 
We, however, will not boast beyond proper limits, but will stay within the boundaries that God assigned to us, a field that includes you. 
For we are not overextending ourselves, as though we had not reached you, because we did indeed get to you with the Gospel of Christ; 
nor do we boast ‘off limits’ in the labors of others, but we have hope that as your faith grows our boundaries will be greatly expanded through you, 
so as to evangelize the regions beyond you (not to boast in work already done in someone else's field). 
“He who boasts, let him boast in the Lord.” 
Because it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but whom the Lord commends. 
