2 Corinthians.
Chapter 5.
Now then, we know that though our earthly, tent-like ‘house’ may be destroyed, we have a building from God (not a handmade house), eternal in the heavens. 
Further, in this one we do groan, longing to be clothed with our heavenly habitation; 
since, obviously, once clothed we will not be found naked. 
Yes, being in this ‘tent’ is a burden, so we groan—not enough to want to strip, but to be really clothed; that what is mortal may be swallowed up by the Life. 
Now it is God who has prepared us for this very purpose, who also has given us the down payment of the Spirit. 
So we are always confident, even knowing that while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord's home 
—we walk by faith, not by sight— 
indeed, we are confident in preferring to be away from the body and at home with the Lord. 
Yes, that is why we make it our aim (whether at home or away from it) to be well pleasing to Him. 
Because we must all be exposed before Christ's Judgment Seat, that each one may receive his due for the things he did while in the body, whether good or bad. 
Therefore, since we know the Lord's intimidation, we try to convince people. We are well known to God, and I hope in your consciences as well. 
We are not commending ourselves to you again, but are giving you an opportunity of boasting on our behalf, that you may have an answer for those who boast in appearance and not in heart. 
If we are ‘out of our senses’, it is for God; if we are of sound mind, it is for you. 
For Christ's love impels us, having concluded this: if One died for all it follows that all died; 
and He died for all so that those who now live should no longer live for themselves but for the One who died for all and was raised again. 
So then, from now on we regard no one from a fleshly perspective—even if we have ‘known’ Christ in this way, we do so no longer— 
so then, if anyone is in Christ he is a new creation; the old things have passed on; look, all has become new! 
And that ‘all’ is from the God who has reconciled us to Himself through Jesus Christ and given us the ministry of the reconciliation, 
namely that in Christ God was reconciling the world to Himself, not imputing their trespasses to them, including committing to us the message of this reconciliation. 
So then, we are Christ's ambassadors, as though God were making His appeal through us. We implore you on Christ's behalf: Be reconciled to God! 
Because He made the One who did not know sin to be sin on our behalf, so that in Him we might become God's righteousness. 
