Luke.
Chapter 2.
Now it happened in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that the whole inhabited world should be enrolled. 
This first census took place while Quirinius was governing Syria. 
So everyone was traveling, each to his own town, to enroll himself. 
So Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of Natsareth town, into Judea to the city of David, that is called Bethlehem, because he was of David's ‘house’, that is, line of descent, 
to enroll himself with Mary, the woman who had been betrothed to him, who was pregnant. 
So it happened that when they got there the days for her to give birth were completed; 
and she gave birth to her firstborn Son, wrapped Him in pieces of cloth and laid Him in the manger, because there was no room for them in the lodging place. 
Now there were shepherds in that same area, staying out in the field and keeping the nightly watches over their flock. 
When wow, an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. 
The angel said to them: “Do not be afraid because listen, I am announcing the most joyful news to you, which will be to all the people! 
You see, today, in David's city, a Savior was born to you, who is Lord Christ! 
And this is the sign to you: you will find a Baby wrapped in pieces of cloth, lying in a manger.” 
Suddenly a multitude of the heavenly army was with the angel praising God and saying, 
“Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace, good will toward mankind!” 
So when the angels went away from them into the sky the men, the shepherds, said to one another, “Hey, let's go to Bethlehem and see this event that has taken place, that the Lord made known to us!” 
So they went in a hurry and located both Mary and Joseph, and the Baby lying in the manger. 
And having seen they spread an exact account of the saying that had been spoken to them concerning this Child. 
All who heard marveled at the things told them by the shepherds. 
As for Mary, she treasured all these sayings, pondering them in her heart. 
The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God over all that they had heard and seen, just as it was told them. 
When eight days were completed so as to circumcise Him, His name was indeed called JESUS, the name given by the angel before He was conceived in the womb. 
And when the days of their purification according to the law of Moses were completed, they took Him to Jerusalem to present Him to the Lord 
(just as it is written in the law of the Lord, “Every male who opens a womb shall be called holy to the Lord”), 
and to offer a sacrifice according to what was specified in the Lord's Law, “a pair of turtledoves or two young pigeons”. 
Well now, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon; this man was righteous and devout, expectantly waiting for the Consolation of Israel, and Holy Spirit was upon him. 
(It had been revealed to him repeatedly by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death until he saw the Lord's Messiah.) 
So by the Spirit he came into the temple; and when the parents brought the Child Jesus in, to do concerning Him according to the custom of the law, 
Simeon took Him into his arms and blessed God and said: 
“Sovereign, now You can release your slave in peace, according to Your word, 
because my eyes have seen Your salvation, 
which You have prepared before the face of all peoples: 
a light for revelation to Gentiles, and the glory of Your people Israel.” 
And Joseph and His mother were marveling at the things being spoken concerning Him. 
Then Simeon blessed them, and said to Mary His mother: “Listen, this One is appointed to bring about the fall and rising of many in Israel, and to be a sign that is spoken against, 
so that the reasonings of many hearts may be revealed (furthermore, a sword will pass through your own soul also).” 
Also there was a prophetess Anna, a daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher—she was of a great age, having lived with a husband seven years from her virginity 
and having been a widow for about eighty-four years—who did not depart from the temple, serving God with fastings and petitions night and day. 
Well she, having come up at that very moment, started praising the Lord, and kept on speaking of Him to all those in Jerusalem who were looking for redemption. 
When they had completed everything, according to the law of the Lord, they went back to Galilee, to their own town, Natsareth. 
And the Child kept growing and being strengthened in spirit, being filled with wisdom; yes, the grace of God was upon Him. 
Now every year His parents would go to Jerusalem to the feast of the Passover; 
so when He was twelve years old they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast. 
When they had fulfilled the days, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem, but Joseph and His mother did not know it. 
Supposing Him to be in the caravan, they went a day's journey and then started looking for Him among their relatives and acquaintances. 
Not finding Him, they returned to Jerusalem seeking Him. 
So it happened that after three days they found Him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to them and asking them questions. 
(All who heard Him were astonished at His understanding and answers.) 
So upon seeing Him they were amazed, and His mother said to Him: “Son, why have you treated us like this? Look, your father and I have been searching for you in distress.” 
So He said to them: “Why were you seeking me? Didn't you know that I must be about my Father's concerns?” 
But they did not understand the statement that He made to them. 
Then He went down with them and came to Natsareth, and continued subordinating Himself to them; His mother kept all these sayings in her heart. 
And Jesus kept increasing in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men. 
