Revelation.
Chapter 8.
And when He opened the seventh seal there was a stillness in heaven for about half an hour. 
And I saw the seven angels who stood before God, and seven trumpets were given to them. 
And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer. He was given lots of incense so that he could offer it with the prayers of all the saints upon the golden altar that is before the throne. 
And the smoke of the incense with the prayers of the saints went up before God out of the angel's hand. 
Then the angel took the censer, filled it with fire from the altar, and threw it at the earth. And there were noises and thunders and lightnings and an earthquake. 
And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to trumpet. 
So the first one trumpeted, and there appeared hail and fire mixed with blood, and it the mixture was thrown at the earth, and a third of the earth was burned up; that is, a third of the trees was burned up and all green grass was burned up. 
So the second angel trumpeted, and something like a great burning mountain was thrown into the sea, and a third of the sea became blood. 
And a third of the creatures with souls in the sea died. And a third of the ships were destroyed. 
So the third angel trumpeted, and a great star fell out of the sky, burning like a torch, and it fell upon a third of the rivers, and on the springs of waters. 
The name of the star is called Wormwood; so a third of the waters were turned into wormwood, and many people died from the waters because they were made bitter. 
So the fourth angel trumpeted, and a third of the sun was struck, and a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of them was darkened; so a third of the day did not shine, and the night likewise. 
And I saw and heard an eagle flying in midheaven saying with a loud voice, three times: “Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitants of the earth because of the remaining trumpet blasts of the three angels who are about to trumpet!” 
