The Second Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians.
Chapter 1.
Paul, apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and brother Timothy, to the church of God that is in Corinth, together with all the saints throughout Achaia: 
Grace and peace to you from God our Father and Sovereign Jesus Christ. 
All praise to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassion and God of all encouragement, 
who encourages us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to encourage those who are in whatever affliction, by means of the encouragement with which we ourselves are encouraged by God. 
Because just as the sufferings of the Christ flow over into us, so also our encouraging overflows, through Christ. 
Now then, if we are afflicted, it is for the sake of your encouragement and deliverance, that are effective for enduring the same sufferings that we also are suffering 
(yes, our hope concerning you is steadfast); if we are encouraged, it also is for the sake of your encouragement and deliverance, since we know that you will share in the encouragement just as you do in the sufferings. 
And so, brothers, we do not want you to be in ignorance concerning the affliction that came upon us in Asia: we were under extreme pressure, beyond our strength, so that we despaired even of life. 
Yes, we ourselves have had the sentence of death within ourselves, so that we not place confidence in ourselves, but in the God who raises the dead; 
He did deliver us from that deadly peril, and still delivers; in whom we trust that He will keep on delivering, 
you also adding your cooperation in prayer, on our behalf; that thanks may be given by many persons for the gift bestowed on us by means of many, on your behalf. 
Now this is our boast: the testimony of our conscience that we have conducted ourselves in the world with openness and godly sincerity, not by fleshly wisdom but by the grace of God, and especially toward you. 
For we do not write you any other things than what you can read and understand; and I do hope that you will keep on understanding to the end 
(as indeed some of you have acknowledged) that we are your boast, just as you are ours, in the day of the Lord Jesus. 
It was in this confidence that I was planning to come by you first, 
and by you to proceed into Macedonia, and to come back to you from Macedonia (that you might benefit twice), and then to be sent by you on my way to Judea. 
Now then, when I was deciding this, I was not acting frivolously, was I? Or the things I decide, do I decide according to the flesh, so that with me there would be both “Yes, yes” and “No, no”? 
As God is faithful, our word to you was not “Yes” and “No”, 
because the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was proclaimed among you by us—by me and Silvanus and Timothy—was not “Yes” and “No”. In fact, with Him it has always been “Yes”, 
because all the promises of God in Him are “Yes”; indeed, in Him they are “Amen”, that there be glory to God through us. 
Now He who establishes us together with you into Christ, and who anointed us, is God, 
who also sealed us and gave us the down payment of the Spirit in our hearts. 
For my part, I call on God as witness, upon my soul, that it was to spare you that I have not yet returned to Corinth. 
(Not that we have control over your faith, but we work with you for your joy, for it is by faith that you stand firm.) 
