Romans.
Chapter 2.
Now then, you there, whoever you are who judges someone else for things you practice yourself—you condemn yourself and are inexcusable. 
Further, we know that God's judgment against those who practice such things is according to truth. 
So then, you there, you who judge those who practice such things while doing the same, do you really imagine that you will escape God's judgment? 
Or do you scorn the riches of His kindness, tolerance and longsuffering, not recognizing that the goodness of God is leading you toward repentance? 
Rather, due to your hardness and unrepentant heart, you are treasuring up wrath for yourself in the day of God's wrath and revelation and righteous judgment, 
who will repay each one according to his works: 
to those who seek for glory, honor and incorruption, by persevering in doing good—eternal life; 
but to those who, due to self-seeking, are actually disobeying the truth (while obeying the unrighteousness)—fury and wrath, 
tribulation and anguish, upon every human soul who works at the evil, whether Jew (first) or Greek; 
but glory, honor and peace to everyone who works the good, whether Jew (first) or Greek. 
Now there is no favoritism with God. 
For as many as have sinned without law will also perish without law; while as many as have sinned with law will be judged by law. 
For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law will be justified 
(indeed, whenever the ethnic nations that do not have law do by nature the things of the law, these, although not having law, are a law to themselves; 
who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their reasonings among themselves accusing or even excusing) 
in the day when God, according to my Gospel, will judge people's secrets by Jesus Christ. 
Look, you declare yourself a Jew, and rest on the Law, and boast in God, 
and know the Will, and approve the superior things, being instructed out of the Law. 
Further, you are confident that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those in darkness, 
an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of the immature, having in the Law the embodiment of knowledge and truth. 
You then, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach not to steal, do you steal? 
You who say not to commit adultery, do you adulterate? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? 
You who boast in the Law, do you dishonor God through the transgression of the Law? 
For, just as it is written: “The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you.” 
Now circumcision does have value if you keep the Law, but if you are a transgressor of the Law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. 
So if the uncircumcised keeps the righteous requirements of the Law, will not his uncircumcision be counted as circumcision? 
And will not the physically uncircumcised who fulfills the law judge you, complete with written code and circumcision, who are a transgressor of the Law? 
Because a person is not a true Jew who is only one outwardly, nor is true circumcision something outward in the flesh; 
but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is of the heart—in spirit, not letter—whose praise is not from men but from God. 
