Hebrews.
Chapter 3.
So then, holy brothers, you who share in the celestial calling, do contemplate the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus Christ! 
who was faithful to the One who appointed Him, as also was Moses in all HisF house. 
For this One has been counted worthy of more glory than was Moses, just as the builder of a house has more honor than the house itself 
—every house is built by someone, but He who built all things is God— 
also, Moses was indeed faithful as a servant in all His house, providing evidence of those things that would later be spoken, 
but Christ is faithful as a Son over His house, whose house are we, if, that is, we hold fast the confidence, even the boast, of the Hope firm to the end. 
Therefore—just as the Holy Spirit says: “Today, if you would hear His voice, 
do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, during the time of the testing in the desert, 
where your fathers tested me, proved me and saw my works for forty years. 
In consequence I became very angry with that generation and said, ‘Their heart always leads them astray; they have not known my ways.’ 
So I took an oath in my wrath, ‘As if they will ever enter my rest!’ ” 
—take care, brothers, that there not be a malignant heart of unbelief in any of you, so as to go away from the living God; 
rather, exhort yourselves every day, while it is called ‘today’, so that none of you be hardened through sin's deceitfulness. 
For we have become associates of the Christ, if, that is, we hold fast the beginning of the Endeavor firm to the end, 
while it is still being said, “Today, if you would hear His voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion.” 
So who were they who, upon hearing, rebelled? Really now, was it not all those who came out of Egypt by Moses? 
And with whom was HeF angry for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose corpses fell in the desert? 
Or to whom did He swear that they would not enter His rest, if not to those who disobeyed? 
So we see that they were not able to enter because of unbelief. 
