Hebrews.
Chapter 2.
So then, we really must pay the utmost attention to the things we have heard, so that we not drift away. 
For if the word spoken through angels became binding, and every violation and disobedience received a deserved penalty, 
how shall we escape if we are careless about that tremendous salvation?—it received its beginning through the Lord's declaration and was confirmed to us by those who heard HimS, 
God adding HisF attestation by signs, wonders, various miracles, and distributions of the Holy Spirit according to His own will. 
Because it is not to angels that He has subjected the coming inhabited earth, about which we are speaking; 
rather, there is a place where someone testified saying: “What is man that You are mindful of him, or son of man that you care for him? 
You made him lower than the angels, for a little while; You crowned him with glory and honor, 
You subjected all things under his feet.” It follows that in subjecting all things to him, He left nothing that is not so subjected. However, we do not yet see everything subjected to him, at present. 
But we do see Jesus, who ‘was made lower than the angels, for a little while’ (in order to suffer death), ‘crowned with glory and honor’—this, by the grace of God, so that HeS might taste death on behalf of everyone. 
Because it was appropriate to HimF, for whom are all things and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons into glory, to complete the Author of their salvation through sufferings. 
For both HeS who is sanctifying and those who are being sanctified are all from One, for which reason He is not ashamed to call them ‘brothers’, 
saying, “I will declare Your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will sing praise to You.” 
And again, “I will put my trust in HimF”; and again, “Here am I and the children whom God has given me.” 
Since, then, the children have flesh and blood as their share, HeS Himself likewise partook of the same, in order that through His death He might abolish the one who had the power of death—that is, the devil— 
and set free these the children who during their whole lifetime were subject to slavery through fear of death. 
(Now surely He does not assist angels, but He does assist Abraham's seed.) 
That is why He was obliged to become like those ‘brothers’ in all respects, so that He could be a merciful and faithful high priest, in what concerns God, with a view to making propitiation for the sins of the people. 
For in that in which He Himself endured suffering, having been tested, He is able to assist those who are being tested. 
