Revelation.
Chapter 7.
And after this I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, so that no wind should blow upon the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree. 
And I saw another angel ascending from the sun's rising, having the seal of the Living God. And he cried out with a loud voice to the four angels, to whom it had been granted to harm the earth and the sea, 
saying: “Do not harm the earth, nor the sea nor the trees, until we have sealed the slaves of our God on their foreheads.” 
And I heard the number of those who were sealed, one hundred and forty four thousand, sealed out of every tribe of the sons of Israel: 
From the tribe of Judah twelve thousand were sealed, from the tribe of Reuben twelve thousand, from the tribe of Gad twelve thousand, 
from the tribe of Asher twelve thousand, from the tribe of Naphtali twelve thousand, from the tribe of Manasseh twelve thousand, 
from the tribe of Simeon twelve thousand, from the tribe of Levi twelve thousand, from the tribe of Issachar twelve thousand, 
from the tribe of Zebulun twelve thousand, from the tribe of Joseph twelve thousand, from the tribe of Benjamin twelve thousand were sealed. 
After these things I looked, and wow, a great multitude that no one could number, from all ethnic nations and tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the Throne and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes and having palm branches in their hands. 
And they shouted with a loud voice saying, “Saved by our God who sits on the throne, and by the Lamb!” 
And all the angels stood around the Throne, and the elders and the four living beings, and they fell down before the Throne, on their faces, and worshiped God, 
saying: “Amen! The blessing and the glory and the wisdom and the thanksgiving and the honor and the power and the strength to our God for ever and ever! Amen.” 
And one of the elders reacted, saying to me, “Who are these that are clothed in the white robes, and where did they come from?” 
So I said to him, “My lord, you know.” So he said to me: “These are those who come out of the Great Tribulation—they washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. 
Therefore they are before the throne of God, and they serve Him day and night in His sanctuary. And He who sits on the throne will shelter them. 
They shall not hunger anymore, nor thirst anymore; the sun will absolutely not strike them, nor any heat; 
because the Lamb who is in the midst of the throne shepherds them and leads them to springs of waters of life. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.” 
