2 Thessalonians.
Chapter 2.
Now, brothers, concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered to Him, we urge you 
not to be quickly shaken from your conviction or disturbed, whether by a spirit or a word or a letter as from us, as though the Day of Christ has come. 
Do not let anyone deceive you by any means; because that day cannot come unless the rebellion comes first and the man of sin is revealed, the son of ruin, 
who opposes and exalts himself over everything that is called a god or an object of worship, to the point of taking his seat as God in God's sanctuary, proclaiming himself to be God. 
(Don't you remember that I used to tell you these things while still with you?) 
So now you know what is restraining, to the end that he may be revealed at his own time. 
For the mystery of the lawlessness is already at work; only He who now restrains will do so until He removes Himself. 
And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord will consume with the breath of His mouth and abolish by the splendor of His coming; 
that one's coming is according to the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders, 
and with all wicked deception among those who are wasting themselves, because they did not receive the love of the truth so that they might be saved. 
Yes, because of this God will send them an active delusion so that they will believe the lie 
and so that all may be condemned who have not believed the truth but have taken pleasure in wickedness. 
Now we are obligated to always give thanks to God about you, brothers loved by the Lord, because from the beginning God chose you into salvation, through sanctification of spirit and belief in truth, 
to which He called you through our gospel, so as to obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us, whether by word or by letter. 
Now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and our God and Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope, by grace, 
encourage your hearts and strengthen you in every good word and work. 
