Matthew.
Chapter 20.
“For the kingdom of the heavens is like a certain landowner who went out early in the morning to hire workers for his vineyard. 
And agreeing with the workers for a denarius a day he sent them into his vineyard. 
And going out about the third hour 9 a.m. he saw others standing idle in the marketplace. 
And he said to them, ‘You also go into the vineyard and I will give you whatever is right.’ So off they went. 
He went out again about the sixth hour, and the ninth, and did the same. 
Now about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing idle, and he says to them, ‘Why have you stood here idle all day?’ 
They say to him, ‘Because no one hired us.’ He says to them, ‘You also go into the vineyard, and you will receive whatever is right.’ 
So when evening had come the owner of the vineyard says to his foreman, ‘Call the workers and pay them their wage, beginning at the last to the first.’ 
The eleventh hour ones came and each received a denarius. 
So when the first ones came they supposed that they would receive more; yet each of them also received a denarius. 
When they received it they began grumbling against the landowner 
saying, ‘These last worked only one hour, and you made them equal to us who bore the burden and the heat of the day!’ 
But in answer he said to one of them: ‘Friend, I am not wronging you. Did you not agree with me for a denarius? 
Take what is yours and go. I wish to give to this last one just as to you. 
Or is it not permissible for me to do what I want with what is mine? Is your eye evil because I am good?’ 
Just so the last will be first, and the first last. For many are called, but few are chosen.” 
As Jesus was on His way to Jerusalem He took the twelve disciples aside on the road and said to them privately: 
“Listen! We are going up to Jerusalem and the Son of the Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and scribes; and they will condemn Him to death, 
and they will hand Him over to the Gentiles to mock, to scourge and to crucify. And on the third day He will rise!” 
Then the mother of Zebedee's sons approached Him, with her sons, and kneeling down she asked something from Him. 
So He said to her, “What do you wish?” She says to Him, “State that these my two sons may sit one on Your right and one on Your left in Your kingdom.” 
But in answer Jesus said: “You (pl.) do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup which I am about to drink, or to be baptized with the baptism that I am being baptized with?” They say to Him, “We are able.” 
And He says to them: “You will indeed drink my cup, and you will be baptized with the baptism that I am being baptized with, but to sit on my right and on my left is not mine to give; rather it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father.” 
Now when the ten heard it they were indignant at the two brothers. 
But summoning them Jesus said: “You know that the rulers of the nations lord it over them, and the great exercise authority over them; 
but it must not be so among you. Rather, whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant, 
and whoever wants to be first among you must be your slave; 
just like the Son of the Man—He did not come to be served but to serve, and to give His life as a ransom for many.” 
Now as they went on from Jericho a large crowd followed Him. 
And then, two blind men sitting alongside the road and hearing, “Jesus is passing by!” cried out saying, “Have mercy on us, Lord, Son of David!” 
So the crowd threatened them to be quiet, but they cried out all the more saying, “Have mercy on us, Lord, Son of David!!” 
Jesus stopped, called them and said, “What do you want me to do for you?” 
They say to Him, “Lord, that our eyes may be opened!” 
So Jesus had compassion and touched their eyes, and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed Him. 
