John.
Chapter 17.
Jesus spoke these things, raising His eyes to Heaven and saying: “Father, the hour has come! Glorify Your Son, so that Your Son also may glorify You, 
just as You gave Him authority over all humanity, so that He will give eternal life to all those whom You have given Him. 
Now eternal life is this: that they may know You, the only true God, and the One whom You sent—Jesus Christ. 
I have glorified You on the earth. I have finished the work that You have given me to do. 
So now, Father, You glorify me by Your side with the glory that I had along with You before the world existed! 
“I have revealed Your name to the men whom You have given me out of the world. They were Yours and You gave them to me, and they have kept Your word. 
They now know that everything You have given to me is from You; 
because I have given them the sayings which You have given to me; and they have received and known for sure that I came forth from You, and they have believed that You sent me. 
I am praying for them; I am not praying for the world but for those whom You have given me, because they are yours. 
Actually, all my things are Yours and Yours are mine, and I have been glorified in them. 
Now I am no longer in the world, yet these are in the world, and I am coming to You. “Holy Father, keep them in Your name which You have given to me, so that they may be one just as we are. 
While I was with them in the world I kept them in Your name. I protected those whom You gave me, and not one of them was lost except the son of perdition, so that the Scripture might be fulfilled. 
But now I am coming to You, and I speak these things in the world so that they may have my joy made full in them. 
“I have given them Your word; and the world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. 
I am not asking that You take them out of the world, but that You keep them from the malignant one. 
They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. 
Sanctify them by Your Truth; Your Word is Truth. 
Just as You sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world. 
And for their sakes I sanctify myself, so that they also may be sanctified in truth. 
“I pray not only for these, but also for those who believe into me through their word; 
that they all may be one, just as You, Father, are in me and I in You; that in Us they also may be one, so that the world may believe that You sent me. 
In fact, the glory that You gave to me I have given to them, so that they may be one just as We are one: 
I in them and You in me, so that they may be perfected into one; also so that the world may know that You sent me, and have loved them just as You have loved me. 
“Father, those whom You have given to me, I desire that they also may be with me where I am, so that they may observe my glory, which You have given me, because You loved me before the founding of the world. 
Righteous Father! Indeed the world has not known You, but I have known You; and these have known that You sent me. 
Yes, I have made Your name known to them and will make it known, so that the love with which You have loved me may be in them, and I in them.” 
