Luke.
Chapter 15.
Then all the tax collectors and ‘sinners’ were getting close to Him to hear Him. 
Well the Pharisees and the scribes started complaining, saying, “This man welcomes ‘sinners’ and eats with them.” 
So He told them this parable, saying: 
“What man among you, having a hundred sheep and losing one of them, does not abandon the ninety-nine in the wild and go after the lost one until he finds it? 
And upon finding it he joyfully puts it on his shoulders. 
And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost!’ 
I say to you that likewise there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous ones who have no need of repentance. 
“Or what woman having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp, sweep the house, and search carefully until she finds it? 
And when she finds it, she calls together her friends and neighbors saying, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I lost!’ 
Just so, I say to you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents.” 
Then He said: “A certain man had two sons. 
And the younger one said to the father, ‘Father, give me the appropriate share of the estate.’ So he divided the property between them. 
Not many days later the younger son, having converted it all, journeyed to a distant country; and there he squandered his wealth living dissolutely. 
But when he had spent it all, there was a severe famine throughout that country, and he began to be in need. 
Then he went and attached himself to a citizen of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed pigs. 
He would gladly have filled his stomach with the carob pods that the pigs were eating, but no one gave him anything. 
But when he came to himself he said: ‘How many of my father's hired servants have an abundance of bread, while I am dying of hunger! 
I will get up and go to my father and say to him: Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you, 
and I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me as one of your hired servants.’ 
“So he got up and went to his own father. But while he was still a good ways off, his father saw him and was moved with compassion—he ran and fell on his neck and kissed him! 
Then the son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you, and I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’ 
But the father said to his slaves: ‘Bring out the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet. 
And bring in and kill the fatted calf, and let us eat and celebrate; 
because this son of mine was dead and came to life; he was lost and is found!’ So they began to celebrate. 
“Now his older son was in the field; and as he came approaching the house he heard music and dancing. 
So he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant. 
He said to him, ‘Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him back safe and sound.’ 
So he became angry and refused to go in. Then his father came out and began to plead with him. 
But in answer he said to the father: ‘Just look at how many years I have been serving you without ever transgressing your commandment; yet you never gave me even a young goat that I might celebrate with my friends. 
But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your livelihood with prostitutes, you killed the fatted calf for him!’ 
So he said to him: ‘Son, you are always with me, and all that I have is yours. 
But it was right that we celebrate and be glad, because this brother of yours was dead and came to life; he was lost and is found.’ ” 
