Matthew.
Chapter 8.
So when He came down from the mountain large crowds followed Him. 
And then, a leper came and worshiped Him saying, “Lord, if You are willing, You can make me clean.” 
So reaching out His hand Jesus touched him, saying, “I am willing; be cleansed!” And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. 
And Jesus says to him: “See that you tell no one; but go, show yourself to the priest and offer the gift that Moses commanded, as a proof to them.” 
As He entered Capernaum a centurion came to Him, pleading with Him 
and saying, “Lord, my servant is lying at home paralyzed, being terribly tormented.” 
And Jesus says to him, “I will go and heal him.” 
But in answer the centurion said: “Lord, I am not worthy that you should come under my roof; but only speak a word and my servant will be healed. 
For I also am a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and to my slave, ‘Do this,’ and he does.” 
Upon hearing him Jesus marveled, and said to those who were following: “Assuredly I say to you, not even in Israel have I found such great faith! 
And I say to you that many will come from east and west and sit down with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of the heavens; 
but the sons of the kingdom will be thrown out into the darkness farthest away. There, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” 
Then Jesus said to the centurion, “Go; and let it be done for you just as you believed.” And his servant was healed in that very hour. 
Now when Jesus had come into Peter's house, He saw his mother-in-law laid up and burning with fever. 
So He touched her hand and the fever left her; and she got up and began to serve Him. 
And when evening came they brought to Him many who were demonized. And He cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were sick, 
so that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet should be fulfilled, namely: “He Himself took our infirmities and bore our diseases.” 
Seeing large crowds around Him Jesus gave an order to depart for the opposite shore. 
Then a certain scribe approaching said to Him, “Teacher, I will follow you wherever you may go.” 
So Jesus says to him, “The foxes have dens and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of the Man does not have where He may lay His head.” 
Then a different one of the disciples said to Him, “Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.” 
But Jesus said to him, “Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead.” 
Now when He got into the boat, His disciples followed Him. 
And then—a great tempest arose on the sea, so that the boat was covered by the waves. But He was sleeping. 
So the disciples came and awakened Him saying, “Lord, save us! We are perishing!” 
And He says to them, “Why are you cowardly, you little-faiths?” Then rising He rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. 
So the men marveled, saying, “What sort of being is this, that even the winds and the sea obey Him?” 
Upon His coming to the other side, to the region of the Gergesenes, two demonized men met Him, coming out from the tombs, very dangerous, so that no one could pass that way. 
And then—they cried out saying: “What do you have to do with us, Jesus, Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time?” 
Now a good way off from them there was a herd of many pigs feeding. 
So the demons kept imploring Him saying, “Since you are going to cast us out, permit us to go into the herd of pigs.” 
So He said to them, “Go!” And coming out they went off into the herd of pigs. And then—the whole herd of pigs rushed down the steep bank into the sea and died in the water! 
So the swineherds ran away, and going into the town they told everything, including about the demonized men. 
And then, the whole town went out to meet with Jesus; and upon seeing Him they begged Him to depart from their borders. 
