Revelation.
Chapter 19.
After these things I heard as it were the really loud voice of a great multitude in heaven saying: “Hallelujah! The salvation and power and glory of our God! 
Because His judgments are true and just, because He has judged the great whore who corrupted the earth with her fornication, and has avenged the blood of His slaves by her hand.” 
And a second voice said, “Hallelujah! Her smoke goes up for ever and ever!” 
And the twenty-four elders and the four living beings fell down and worshiped God, who sits on the throne, saying, “Amen, Hallelujah!” 
And a voice came from the Throne saying, “Praise our God, all you His slaves and those who fear Him, small and great!” 
And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude like the sound of many waters and like the sound of mighty thunderings saying: “Hallelujah! Because the Lord our God reigns, the Almighty! 
Let us rejoice and exult and give Him the glory, because the wedding of the Lamb has come, and His wife has prepared herself.” 
And it was granted to her to be dressed in fine linen, bright and pure, for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. 
And he says to me, “Write: ‘Blessed are those who are invited to the wedding banquet of the Lamb.’ ” And he says to me, “These are the true words of God.” 
And I fell at his feet to worship him, but he says to me: “Don't! I am your fellow slave and among your brothers who hold the testimony of Jesus. Worship God! For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.” 
I saw the heaven opened, and wow, a white horse! And the One who sits on it, called Faithful and True, both judges and makes war with righteousness. 
Now His eyes were a flame of fire and on His head were many diadems, having names written, besides a written name that no one knows except Himself; 
and He was clothed with a robe that had been dipped in blood, and His name is called The Word of God. 
And the armies in heaven, clothed in fine linen, white, clean, followed Him on white horses. 
And out of His mouth goes a sharp, two-edged sword, so that with it He may strike the nations. And He Himself will shepherd them with a rod of iron. And He Himself treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God, the Almighty. 
And He has a name written on His robe and on His thigh, King of kings and Lord of lords! 
And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried out with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in midheaven, “Come, gather together to the great dinner of God, 
so that you may eat flesh of kings and flesh of commanders and flesh of the mighty and flesh of horses along with their riders, even the flesh of all, both free and slave, both small and great.” 
And I saw the Beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war against the One riding the horse and against His army. 
So the Beast was captured, and with him the False prophet, the one who performed signs in his presence (by which he had deceived those who had received the mark of the Beast and those who worshiped his image). The two were thrown alive into the Lake of Fire that burns with brimstone. 
And the rest were killed by the sword that proceeds from the mouth of the One riding the horse. And all the birds were filled with their flesh. 
