John.
Chapter 19.
So then Pilate took Jesus and had Him flogged. 
And the soldiers twisted a crown out of poisonous thorns and put it on His head; they also threw a purple robe around Him 
and started saying, “Hail, O King of the Jews!” And they slapped Him repeatedly. 
Pilate then went out again and says to them, “Look, I am bringing him out to you so that you may know that I find no crime in him at all.” 
Then Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe; and Pilate says to them, “Look at the man!” 
Well when the chief priests and the operatives saw Him they shouted, saying, “Crucify! Crucify him!” Pilate says to them, “You take and crucify him, because I find no crime in him.” 
The Jews answered him, “We have a law, and according to our law he ought to die, because he made himself ‘Son of God’!” 
Hey, when Pilate heard this statement he was more afraid than ever! 
So back into the Praetorium he went and says to Jesus, “Where are you from?” But Jesus did not answer him. 
So Pilate says to Him: “Are you not speaking to me? Don't you know that I have authority to crucify you and authority to release you?” 
Jesus answered: “You would have no authority over me at all if it had not been given to you from Above. Therefore the one who handed me over to you has the greater sin.” 
From that moment Pilate really tried to release Him; but the Jews kept shouting, saying: “If you release this fellow you are no friend of Caesar's! Whoever makes himself a king is opposing Caesar!” 
Well, upon hearing this statement Pilate led Jesus outside and sat down on the judgment seat, in a place called ‘Stone Pavement’, while in Hebrew ‘Gabatha’ 
(now it was the day of preparation for the Passover; the hour was about six a.m.), and he says to the Jews, “Look at your king!” 
But they shouted, “Out! Out! Crucify him!” Pilate says to them, “Shall I crucify your king?” The chief priests answered, “We have no king but Caesar!” 
So then he handed Him over to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus and lead Him away. 
And carrying His cross He went out to the place called ‘Skull’, which in Hebrew is called ‘Golgotha’; 
there they crucified Him, and two others with Him, one on either side, with Jesus in the middle. 
Now Pilate had also written a notice, and put it on the cross; and the inscription was: JESUS THE NATSOREAN THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
So many of the Jews read this notice, because the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; further, it was written in Hebrew, Greek and Latin! 
So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, “Don't write, ‘The king of the Jews’, but that the fellow said, ‘I am the king of the Jews.’ ” 
Pilate answered, “What I have written, I have written!” 
Now when the soldiers had crucified Jesus they took His clothes and made four parts, a part for each soldier. They also took His tunic, but the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from the top. 
So they said among themselves, “Let's not rip it, but toss for it, to see whose it will be,” so that the Scripture might be fulfilled which says: “They divided my clothes among themselves, and for my clothing they cast a lot.” That is why the soldiers did these things. 
Now Jesus' mother and her sister, Mary of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene were standing by His cross. 
So Jesus, seeing His mother, and the disciple whom He loved standing by, He says to His mother, “Woman, there is your son!” 
Then He says to the disciple, “There is your mother!” And from that hour the disciple took her into his home. 
After this, knowing that everything was now accomplished so that the Scripture might be fulfilled, Jesus says, “I'm thirsty!” 
Now a vessel full of sour wine was sitting there; so they filled a sponge with sour wine, placed it on a hyssop, and put it to His mouth. 
Then, when He had received the sour wine, Jesus said, “Paid in full!!” And bowing His head He dismissed His spirit. 
Now then, because it was Preparation Day, so that the bodies should not remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a high day), the Jews requested Pilate that their legs might be broken and they be removed. 
Then the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first man and of the other one who had been crucified with Him. 
But upon coming to Jesus, they did not break His legs, since they saw that He had already died. 
But one of the soldiers pierced His side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out. 
And the one who saw has testified, and his testimony is true (yes, he knows he is telling the truth), so that you may believe. 
Because these things happened so that the Scripture should be fulfilled: “Not a bone of His will be broken.” 
And again another Scripture says: “They will look on Him whom they pierced.” 
After these things Joseph, the one from Arimathea (being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews), requested Pilate that he might remove the body of Jesus; and Pilate gave permission. So he came and removed Jesus' body. 
Now Nicodemus also came (the one who at first came to Jesus by night), bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds. 
Then they took Jesus' body and wrapped it in linen strips, with the aromatic spices, according to the burial custom of the Jews. 
Now at the place where He was crucified there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been buried. 
So that is where they put Jesus, because of the Jews' Preparation Day, since the tomb was nearby. 
