John.
Chapter 5.
After these things there was the feast of the Jews, so Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
Now in Jerusalem, by the Sheep Gate, there is a pool called Bethesda, in Hebrew, which has five porches. 
In them a large number of sick people were lying—blind, lame, paralyzed—waiting for the moving of the water; 
because an angel would go down from time to time into the pool and stir up the water—then the first one to get in after the stirring of the water became well of whatever disease that was holding him. 
Now there was a certain man there who had been sick for 38 years. 
Seeing this man lying there and knowing that he had already been sick a long time, Jesus says to him, “Do you want to get well?” 
The sick man answered Him, “Sir, I have no man to throw me into the pool when the water is stirred up, but while I am coming another gets in before me.” 
Jesus says to him, “Get up, pick up your pallet and walk!” 
Immediately the man became well and picked up his pallet and started to walk! 
But that day was a Sabbath, so the Jews said to the one who had been healed: “It's the Sabbath! You aren't allowed to carry the pallet.” 
He answered them: “The one who made me well—He said to me, ‘Pick up your pallet and walk.’ ” 
So they asked him, “Who is the man who said to you, ‘Pick up your pallet and walk’?” 
But the man who was cured did not know who it was, because Jesus had disappeared, there being a crowd in the place. 
After these things Jesus found him in the temple and said to him: “See, you are well. Don't sin any more, so that something worse doesn't happen to you.” 
The man went off and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well. 
So because of this the Jews began persecuting Jesus and trying to kill Him, because He was doing these things on the Sabbath. 
But Jesus answered them, “Until now, my Father works, I also work.” 
So because of this they wanted to kill Him all the more, because He was not only breaking the Sabbath but was even saying that God was His own Father, making Himself equal with God! 
Then Jesus answered and said to them: “Most assuredly I say to you, the Son is not able to do anything from Himself, except something He sees the Father doing; because whatever things He does, precisely these the Son also does. 
For the Father loves the Son and shows Him everything that He Himself is doing; and He will show Him greater works than these, so that you may marvel. 
Now just as the Father raises the dead and gives life, just so the Son also gives life to whom He wishes. 
In fact the Father does not judge anyone but has committed all the judging to the Son, 
so that all will honor the Son just as they honor the Father. Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent Him. 
“Most assuredly I say to you that the one listening to my word and believing on Him who sent me has eternal life; he will not go into judging but has moved out of the death into the Life. 
“Most assuredly I say to you that a time is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of the God, and those who listen will live. 
Because just as the Father has life in Himself, just so He gave to the Son also to have life in Himself; 
furthermore He gave Him the authority to pass judgment, because He is Son of Man. 
Do not marvel at this, because a time is coming in which all those in the graves will hear His voice 
and will come out—those who did good things into the resurrection of life, but those who practiced evil things into the resurrection of condemnation. 
I am not able to do anything from myself. As I hear, I judge, and my judging is just, because I do not seek my own will but the will of the Father who sent me. 
“If I testify about myself, my testimony is not valid. 
There is another who testifies about me, and I know that the testimony that He gives about me is true. 
You have sent to John and he has testified to the truth. 
Yet I do not accept the testimony from a man; but I say these things so that you may be saved. 
That man was a burning, shining lamp, and for a time you were willing to be glad in his light. 
But I have a greater testimony than John's, because the works that the Father gave me to complete—the very works that I am doing—they testify about me that the Father has sent me. 
“Further, the Father who sent me has Himself testified about me. You have neither heard His voice nor seen His form at any time. 
Nor do you have His word abiding in you, because you do not believe on the very one whom He sent. 
You examine the Scriptures because in them you think you have eternal life, yet they are the very ones that testify about me. 
But you are not willing to come to me so that you may have life. 
“I do not accept glory from people. 
Rather I have come to know you, that you do not have the love of God in you. 
I have come in my Father's name and you do not receive me; should another come in his own name, him you will receive. 
How can you believe, who receive glory from men and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? 
“Do not suppose that I will accuse you before the Father. Moses is the one who accuses you, on whom you have set your hope. 
Because if you really believed Moses you would believe me, because he wrote about me. 
But since you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my sayings?” 
