Luke.
Chapter 9.
Then He called the Twelve together and gave them power and authority over all the demons, and to cure diseases; 
and He sent them to proclaim the Kingdom of God and to heal the sick. 
And He said to them: “Take nothing for the journey—neither staffs nor knapsack nor bread nor money, neither have two tunics apiece. 
Whatever house you enter, stay there, and depart from there. 
But as many as do not receive you, when you depart from that town, shake off even the dust from your feet as a testimony against them.” 
So they set out and went around, village by village, evangelizing and healing everywhere. 
Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all the things being done by Him; and he was perplexed, because it was said by some that John had risen from the dead, 
and by some that Elijah had appeared, and by others that one of the ancient prophets had arisen. 
But Herod said, “John I beheaded; so who is this about whom I hear such things?” And he started trying to see Him. 
When the Apostles returned they reported to Him all that they had done. Then He took them and withdrew privately to a deserted place belonging to a town called Bethsaida. 
But the crowds, being aware, followed Him. So He received them and started speaking to them about the Kingdom of God, and He cured those who needed healing. 
Now when the day began to decline, the Twelve approached and said to Him, “Dismiss the crowd, so that they may go to the surrounding villages and their farms, lodge and find food; because we are in a deserted place here.” 
But He said to them, “You feed them!” So they said, “We have no more than five loaves and two fish—unless we go and buy food for all this crowd” 
(there were about five thousand men). But He said to His disciples, “Make them recline in groups of fifty!” 
They did so, making them all recline. 
Then He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven He blessed and broke them, and gave them to the disciples to set before the multitude. 
So they all ate and were filled, and twelve baskets of the pieces they left were taken up. 
Now it happened, as He was alone praying, that the disciples joined Him, and He questioned them, saying, “Who do the crowds say I am?” 
In answer they said, “John the Baptizer, but others say ‘Elijah,’ while others that one of the ancient prophets has arisen.” 
Then He said to them, “But you, who do you say that I am?” In answer Peter said, “The Christ of God!” 
But He strictly warned and commanded them to tell this to no one, 
saying, “The Son of the Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and the third day be raised up.” 
Then He said to everyone: “If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross, and follow me. 
Because whoever desires to ‘save’ his life will waste it, but whoever ‘wastes’ his life for my sake, he will save it. 
Further, what is a man profited if he gains the whole world, yet wastes or forfeits his very self? 
Yes, whoever is ashamed of me and of my words, the Son of the Man will be ashamed of Him, whenever He comes in the glory—His, and the Father's, and of the holy angels. 
However, I tell you truly: there are some standing here who will certainly not taste death until they see the Kingdom of God!” 
Now about eight days after these words, it happened that He took along Peter and John and James and went up on the mountain to pray. 
And as He prayed, the appearance of His face became different, and His clothing dazzling white. 
And then, two men started talking with Him, who were Moses and Elijah; 
they appeared in glory and were explaining His ‘departure’, that He was about to bring to fruition in Jerusalem. 
Now Peter and those with him were heavy with sleep; but becoming fully awake, they saw His glory, and the two men who stood with Him. 
Then it happened: as they were parting from Him, Peter said to Jesus: “Master, it is good for us to be here” and “Should we make three shelters: one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah?”—not knowing what he was saying. 
But as he was saying this a cloud came and overshadowed them; and they became afraid as they entered the cloud. 
And a Voice came out of the cloud, saying: “This is my beloved Son. Listen to Him!” 
When the Voice had ceased, Jesus was found alone. (They kept quiet and told no one in those days any of the things they had seen.) 
Now it happened on the next day, when they came down from the mountain, that a large crowd met Him. 
And then, a man from the crowd called out, saying: “Teacher, I beg you, look upon my son, for he is my only begotten. 
And oh, a spirit seizes him and he suddenly screams, and it convulses him with foaming, and it hardly departs from him, destroying him! 
And I begged your disciples to cast it out, but they could not.” 
Then in answer Jesus said: “O unbelieving and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and put up with you (pl)? Bring your (sg) son here!” 
But while he was still coming the demon threw him down and convulsed him. Then Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, healed the child, and gave him back to his father. 
Everyone was amazed at the majesty of God. But while all were marveling at all the things which Jesus did, He said to His disciples, 
“Let these words sink into your ears, because the Son of the Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men.” 
But they did not understand this saying; indeed it was concealed from them, in order that they should not perceive it; and they were afraid to ask Him about it. 
Then an argument started among them as to which of them would be the greatest. 
So Jesus, perceiving the reasoning of their heart, took a little child and had him stand beside Him, 
and said to them: “Whoever receives this little child in my name receives me; and whoever receives me receives Him who sent me. Further, he who is least among all of you, he will be great.” 
Then John reacted by saying, “Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him because he does not follow with us.” 
So Jesus said to him, “Do not forbid, because he who is not against us is for us.” 
Now it happened, as the days for His Ascension approached, that He set His face to go to Jerusalem, 
and He sent messengers ahead of Him. And as they went, they entered a village of the Samaritans, so as to prepare for Him. 
But they did not receive Him, because He was heading for Jerusalem. 
Well, when His disciples, James and John, saw this, they said, “Lord, do you want us to call fire down from heaven and consume them, just like Elijah did?” 
But He turned and rebuked them saying: “You do not know of what sort of spirit you are. 
Further, the Son of the Man did not come to destroy men's lives, but to save.” And they went to another village. 
Now as they journeyed on the road, it happened that someone said to Him, “Lord, I will follow you wherever you go.” 
So Jesus said to him, “The foxes have dens and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of the Man has no place to lay His head.” 
Then He said to another, “Follow me!” But he said, “Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.” 
Jesus said to him, “Let the dead bury their own dead, but you go and proclaim the Kingdom of God.” 
And another also said, “I will follow you, Lord, but first allow me to bid farewell to those who are at my house.” 
But Jesus said to him, “No one who puts his hand to ‘the plow’ and looks back is suitable for the Kingdom of God.” 
