1 Corinthians.
Chapter 3.
Brothers, I was not able to address you as spiritual, but as fleshly, as infants in Christ. 
I gave you milk and not solid food, because you were not ready yet. Alas, you are still not ready, 
because you are still fleshly! For since there is envy, strife and divisions among you, are you not carnal and acting like ordinary people? 
For when one says, “I am of Paul,” and another, “I am of Apollos,” are you not carnal? 
Who then is Paul, who is Apollos, but ministers through whom you believed, as the Lord has given to each one? 
I planted, Apollos watered, but God keeps making it grow. 
So then neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who makes it grow. 
Now he who plants and he who waters are at one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor. 
Yes, we are God's coworkers; you are God's ‘field’, God's ‘building’. 
According to the grace of God that was given to me, as a wise master builder I have laid a foundation, while another builds on it. But let each one be careful how he builds; 
for no one can lay any foundation other than what is laid, which is Jesus Christ. 
Now if anyone builds on this foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, 
the work of each will become evident; because the Day will make it clear, because it will be revealed by fire. Yes, the fire will test each one's work, of what sort it is. 
If the work that anyone built endures, he will receive a reward. 
If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss; but he himself will be saved, albeit so as through fire. 
Do you (pl) not know that you are a temple of God and the Spirit of God dwells in you? 
If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him; because God's temple, which you are, is holy. 
Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you seems to be wise in this age, let him become ‘foolish’ so that he may become wise. 
Because the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written: “He catches the wise in their craftiness”; 
and again, “The Lord knows the reasonings of the wise, that they are futile.” 
So then, let no one boast in men, for all things are yours: 
whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas, whether the world or life or death, whether things present or things to come—all are yours, 
and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's. 
