Acts.
Chapter 16.
So he came to Derbe and Lystra. Well now, a certain disciple was there named Timothy, son of a certain Jewish woman who believed, but his father was a Greek; 
he was well spoken of by the brothers in Lystra and Iconium. 
Paul wanted to have him go on with him, so he took and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those parts, because they all knew that his father was a Greek. 
As they were going through the cities they were delivering the dogmas to them, to keep—the ones that had been determined by the apostles and the elders in Jerusalem. 
So the congregations kept on being strengthened in the faith, and were increasing in number daily. 
Now when they had gone through Phrygia and the region of Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia, 
they approached Mysia and tried to go to Bithynia, but the Spirit did not permit them. 
So they bypassed Mysia and went down to Troas. 
A vision appeared to Paul during the night: a man of Macedonia was standing, appealing to him and saying, “Come over to Macedonia and help us.” 
So when he saw the vision, we immediately prepared to go over to Macedonia, concluding that the Lord had called us to evangelize them. 
So setting sail from Troas, we ran a straight course to Samothrace, and the next day to Neapolis; 
and from there to Philippi, which is the foremost city of that part of Macedonia, a colony. We stayed some days in that city. 
On the Sabbath day we went outside the city by a river, where prayer was customarily made, and sitting down we started speaking to the assembled women. 
A certain woman named Lydia, a dealer in purple cloth from the city of Thyatira, who worshiped God, really listened, whose heart the Lord opened to give heed to the things spoken by Paul. 
When she and her household were baptized, she appealed saying, “If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and stay.” So she persuaded us. 
Now it happened, as we were going to prayer, that a certain slave girl having a spirit of divination met us, who brought considerable profit to her owners by divination. 
Following Paul and Silas this girl kept calling out, “These men are servants of the Most High God, who are proclaiming to us the way of salvation!” 
She kept this up for many days! So Paul, becoming increasingly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit, “I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her!” And it came out that very hour. 
But when her owners saw that their hope of profit was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the market place to the rulers, 
and bringing them before the magistrates they said, “These men, being Jews, are agitating our city, 
and are advocating customs that are not lawful for us, being Romans, to receive or do.” 
The crowd joined in the attack against them, and the magistrates tore the clothes off of them and ordered a beating with rods. 
When they had laid many stripes on them, they threw them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them securely; 
who, having received such a charge, threw them into the inner cell and fastened their feet in the stocks. 
Well about midnight Paul and Silas were singing hymns to God in prayer; and the other prisoners were listening to them. 
Suddenly there was a great earthquake, enough to shake the foundations of the prison; immediately all the doors were opened and everyone's chains were loosed. 
But the jailer, awaking from sleep and seeing the prison doors open, drew sword, intending to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped. 
But Paul shouted out, “Don't harm yourself, because we are all here!” 
So calling for a light he ran in and fell down trembling before Paul and Silas. 
He then brought them out and said, “Sirs, what must I do to be saved?” 
So they said, “Believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved, you and your household.” 
Then they spoke the Word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. 
In that same hour of the night he took them aside and washed their wounds, and thereupon he and all his family were baptized. 
Then he brought them into his house and set a meal before them, and he was really rejoicing, having believed in God with his whole family. 
Now when it was day the magistrates sent the officers saying, “Let those men go.” 
So the jailer reported these words to Paul, “The magistrates have sent to release you; so now you can leave and go in peace.” 
But Paul said to them: “After severely beating us in public, although we were uncondemned Romans, they threw us into prison, and now do they toss us out on the sly? No way! Rather, let them come themselves and escort us out!” 
So the officers reported these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans; 
and they came and appealed to them, and leading them out they asked them to leave the city. 
So exiting the prison they entered Lydia's place, and upon seeing the brothers they encouraged them and departed. 
