John.
Chapter 4.
Now when Jesus knew that the Pharisees had heard, “Jesus is making and baptizing more disciples than John” 
(although Jesus Himself was not baptizing, but His disciples), 
He left Judea and went away into Galilee. 
Now He needed to go through Samaria; 
so He comes to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near the plot of land that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. 
Now Jacob's well was there; so Jesus, being worn out from the journey, sat as He was by the well. It was about 6 p.m. 
A woman of Samaria comes to draw water. Jesus says to her, “Give me a drink.” 
(His disciples had gone into the town to buy food.) 
So the Samaritan woman says to Him, “How can you, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, being a Samaritan woman?” (for Jews do not associate with Samaritans). 
Jesus answered and said to her: “If you knew the gift of God, and who is the one saying to you, ‘Give me a drink,’ you would have asked him and he would have given you living water.” 
The woman says to Him: “Sir, you don't even have a bucket, and the well is deep; so where do you get this living water? 
You aren't greater than our father Jacob, are you? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock.” 
Jesus answered and said to her: “Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again, 
but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never ever thirst; rather, the water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up into eternal life.” 
The woman says to Him, “Sir, give me this water! so that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw.” 
Jesus says to her, “Go, call your husband and come back here.” 
The woman answered and said, “I don't have a husband.” Jesus says to her: “You stated correctly that you do not have a husband, 
because you have had five husbands, and the one you have now is no husband of yours. You spoke the truth there!” 
The woman says to Him: “Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. 
Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, while you (pl) say that the place where one must worship is in Jerusalem.” 
Jesus says to her: “Woman, believe me, a time is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. 
You Samaritans worship what you do not know; we Jews worship what we do know, because the salvation is from the Jews. 
But the time is coming, in fact now is, when the genuine worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. Really, because the Father is looking for such people to worship Him. 
God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth.” 
The woman says to Him: “I know that Messiah is coming (who is called Christ). When He comes He will explain everything to us.” 
Jesus says to her, “I am He, the one who is talking with you!” 
At that point His disciples arrived, and they were amazed that He was talking with a woman; yet no one said, “What do you want?” or “Why are You talking with her?” 
So the woman left her water jar, went her way into the town, and says to the men: 
“Come see a man who told me everything I ever did! Could this be the Messiah?” 
So out they went from the town and started toward Him. 
Now in the meantime the disciples were urging Him saying, “Rabbi, eat.” 
But He said to them, “I have food to eat that you do not know about.” 
So the disciples started saying to one another, “Could someone have brought Him something to eat?” 
Jesus says to them: “My food is to do the will of Him who sent me and to complete His work. 
Do you not say, ‘There are four months before the harvest comes?’ Well I say, Look! Lift your eyes and observe the fields; they are white for harvest already! 
Now he who reaps receives pay and gathers fruit into eternal life, so that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together. 
Now the saying, ‘One is the sower and another the reaper,’ is true in this: 
I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored; others have labored and you have entered into their labors.” 
Now many of the Samaritans from that city believed into Him because of the word of the woman, testifying that “He told me everything I ever did!” 
So when the Samaritans came to Him they urged Him to stay with them; and He did stay there two days. 
Many more believed through His own word, 
and they kept saying to the woman, “It is not just because of what you said that we believe, because we ourselves have heard Him, and we know that this One is truly the Messiah, the Savior of the world!” 
So after the two days He departed from there and went on into Galilee. 
(For Jesus Himself testified that a prophet does not have honor in his own country.) 
So when He came into Galilee the Galileans welcomed Him, having seen all the things that He did in Jerusalem, at the festival; for they too had gone to the festival. 
So Jesus went again to Cana of Galilee, where He made the water wine. Now there was a certain royal official whose son was sick in Capernaum. 
When this man heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him and implored Him to come down and heal his son, for he was about to die. 
So Jesus said to him, “Unless you people see signs and wonders you will not believe!” 
The official says to Him, “Sir, come down before my child dies!” 
Jesus says to him, “Go; your son lives.” Well the man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and off he went. 
Now while he was still going down his slaves met him and reported saying, “Your son lives!” 
So he inquired of them the hour in which he got better. And they said to him, “Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.” 
So the father knew that it was at the exact hour in which Jesus told him, “Your son lives.” Both he himself and his whole household believed. 
Again, coming out of Judea into Galilee, Jesus performed this second miraculous sign. 
