Colossians.
Chapter 3.
Furthermore, since you were raised together with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, sitting at God's right; 
set your mind on the things above, not on those upon the earth, 
because you died and your life has been hidden with Christ in God. 
Whenever Christ, our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with Him in glory. 
Therefore put to death your members that are on the earth: fornication, filthiness, passion, evil desire, and the greediness that is idolatry. 
Because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of the disobedience, 
in which things you yourselves once walked when you lived in them. 
But now you must also rid yourselves of all these—anger, rage, malice, slander, obscene speech—out of your mouth. 
Do not lie to one another, since you have taken off the old man with his practices 
and have put on the new one, who is being renewed into real knowledge according to the image of his Creator, 
where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free; but Christ is all and in all. 
Therefore, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, put on hearts of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, patience; 
bearing with one another and forgiving each other, if anyone should have a complaint against another—just as the Christ forgave you, so you also must do. 
And above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfection. 
Let the peace of God rule in your hearts, into which also you were called in one body; and be thankful. 
Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom, and as you sing with grace in your heart to the Lord, with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. 
Whatever you may do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him. 
Wives, subordinate yourselves to your own husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. 
Husbands, love your wives and do not be embittered against them. 
Children, obey your parents in everything, because this is well pleasing in the Lord. 
Fathers, do not provoke your children so that they lose heart. 
Slaves, obey your masters (according to the flesh) in all things, not just when they are looking, as men-pleasers, but in sincerity of heart, fearing God. 
And whatever you do, give it all you've got, as to the Lord and not to men, 
knowing that it is from the Lord that you will receive the inheritance as a reward; because you serve the Lord Christ. 
(But he who does wrong will be repaid for this wrong, and there is no favoritism.) 
