Mark.
Chapter 16.
Now when the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices, in order to go and anoint Jesus. 
Very early on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb when the sun had risen. 
And they were saying among themselves, “Who will roll away the stone from the door of the tomb for us?” 
(because it was very large), but when they looked up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away! 
Upon entering the tomb they saw a young man dressed in a white robe sitting on the right side, and they were alarmed. 
But he said to them: “Don't be alarmed. You are looking for Jesus the Natsarene, who was crucified. He has risen! He isn't here! See, the place where they laid Him. 
But go, tell His disciples, also Peter: ‘He is going before you into Galilee; there you will see Him, as He said to you.’ ” 
Trembling and bewildered they went out and fled from the tomb; and they said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid. 
Having risen early on the first day of the week, Jesus appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom He had cast seven demons. 
She went and reported to those who had been with Him, as they were mourning and weeping. 
When they heard that He was alive and had been seen by her, they did not believe. 
After these things He appeared in a different form to two of them as they were walking, going into the country. 
So they returned and reported to the rest; neither did they believe them. 
Later He appeared to the eleven as they were reclining at the table; and He rebuked their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen Him after He had risen. 
Then He said to them: “Go to the whole world and proclaim the Gospel to all creation. 
He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who does not believe will be condemned. 
And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak with new languages; 
they will remove ‘snakes’; and if they drink anything deadly, it will not hurt them at all; they will lay hands on sick people, and they will get well.” 
So then, after the Lord had spoken to them, He was received up into heaven and sat down at God's right. 
And they went out and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them and confirming the message by the accompanying signs. Amen. 
