Matthew.
Chapter 4.
Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tested by the devil. 
And having fasted forty days and forty nights, afterward He was hungry. 
And coming to Him the tempter said, “Since you are the Son of God, command that these stones become loaves of bread.” 
But in answer He said, “It is written: ‘Man shall not live on bread alone, but by every word coming out of God's mouth.’ ” 
Then the devil takes Him into the holy city and sets Him upon the pinnacle of the temple, 
and says to Him, “Since you are the Son of God, throw yourself down; for it is written: ‘He will give orders to His angels about you, and they will lift you up on their hands, lest you strike your foot against a stone.’ ” 
Jesus said to him, “It is also written: ‘You shall not test the Lord your God!’ ” 
Again the devil takes Him to a very high mountain and shows Him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. 
And he says to Him, “All these things I will give to you, if You will fall down and worship me.” 
Then Jesus says to him: “Get behind me, Satan! For it is written: ‘You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve.’ ” 
Then the devil leaves Him, and then, angels came and began ministering to Him. 
Now hearing that John had been put in prison, Jesus departed into Galilee. 
And leaving Natsareth behind, He went and took up residence in Capernaum by the sea, in the regions of Zebulun and Naphtali; 
so that what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet should be fulfilled, namely: 
“Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations! 
The people sitting in darkness saw a great light, and upon those sitting in the place and shadow of death light has dawned.” 
From then on Jesus began to preach and to say, “Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens has come near.” 
And walking by the Sea of Galilee He saw two brothers, Simon (the one called Peter) and Andrew his brother, casting a circular net into the sea (for they were fishermen). 
And He says to them, “Follow me and I will make you fishers of men.” 
So leaving the nets immediately they followed Him. 
And going on from there He saw two other brothers, James (the one of Zebedee) and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. And He called them. 
So leaving the boat and their father immediately they followed Him. 
Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the Gospel of the Kingdom, and healing every disease and every illness among the people. 
So His fame went throughout all Syria; and they brought to Him all who were sick—suffering with various diseases and torments, and being demonized and being moonstruck, and paralytics—and He healed them. 
So large crowds followed Him—from Galilee and Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and beyond the Jordan. 
