Hebrews.
Chapter 4.
Therefore we should fear, since a promise of entering His rest still stands, lest any one of you should expect to have come short of it. 
Really, because we are continually hearing Good News just like they did, but the word that they heard did not profit them, since they were not intimately united with the faith of those who obeyed. 
Now we who have believed do enter that rest, just as He has said, “So I took an oath in my wrath, ‘As if they will ever enter my rest!’ ”—His works were certainly finished from the foundation of the world, 
because somewhere He has spoken about the seventh day like this, “And on the seventh day God rested from all His works,” 
while again, in this place, “As if they will ever enter my rest!” 
Therefore since it remains for some to enter into it, and those who formerly had the Good News proclaimed to them did not enter because of disobedience, 
He again designates a certain day, after such a long time, saying through David: “Today” (as was stated above), “Today, if you would hear His voice, do not harden your hearts.” 
Because if Jesus had given them rest, He would not have spoken afterward of another day. 
So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. 
Further, the one having entered into His rest has himself also rested from his own works, just as God did from His. 
Therefore, let us take pains to enter into that rest so that no one may fall through the same pattern of disobedience. 
Because the Word of God is living and efficient, and sharper than any two-edged sword, actually penetrating to the point of separating soul and spirit, joints and marrow; in fact, it is able to evaluate a heart's reflections and intentions. 
Nothing in all creation is hidden from His sight; rather all things are naked and open to the eyes of Him to whom we must give account. 
Therefore, since we have a Great High Priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the Confession. 
For we do not have a High Priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but He was tested in all points, in similar ways, without sin. 
So let us approach the throne of grace with confidence, that we may receive mercy and find grace, for timely help. 
