John.
Chapter 9.
Now as He was passing by He saw a man blind from birth. 
And His disciples asked Him saying, “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, in that he was born blind?” 
Jesus answered: “Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but so that the works of God might be displayed in him. 
I must accomplish the works of Him who sent me while it is day; night is coming when no one can work. 
While I am in the world, I am the Light of the world.” 
Upon saying these things He spat on the ground and made mud with the saliva, and spread the mud on the blind man's eyes. 
And He said to him, “Go wash in the pool of Siloam” (which is translated, ‘Sent’). So he went and washed, and came away seeing! 
Then the neighbors and those who previously had seen that he was blind started saying, “Isn't this the man who sat begging?” 
Others said, “This is he”; still others, “He is like him.” He kept saying, “I'm the one!” 
So they said to him, “How were your eyes opened?” 
He answered and said: “A man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, ‘Go to the pool of Siloam and wash.’ So when I went and washed, I saw!” 
Then they said to him, “Where is He?” He says, “I don't know.” 
They bring the man who was formerly blind to the Pharisees. 
(Now it was a Sabbath when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes.) 
So once again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. So he said to them, “He put mud on my eyes, and I washed, and I see.” 
Then some of the Pharisees said, “This man cannot be from God, because he does not keep the Sabbath,” Others were saying, “How can a sinful man do such signs?” And there was a division among them. 
So they address the blind man again, “What do you say about him, in that he opened your eyes?” He said, “He is a prophet.” 
However the Jews did not believe concerning him that he was blind and received sight until they summoned the parents of the one who had received sight. 
And they asked them saying: “Is this your son, whom you say was born blind? How then does he now see?” 
So his parents answered them and said: “We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind; 
but by what means he now sees we don't know, or who opened his eyes we don't know. He is of age. Ask him. He will speak for himself.” 
His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, because the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed Him to be Christ he would be barred from the synagogue. 
That is why his parents said, “He is of age; ask him.” 
So they summoned the man who had been blind a second time and said to him: “Give glory to God! We know that this man is a sinner.” 
So he answered and said: “That He is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, that having been blind I now see!” 
So they said to him again: “What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?” 
He answered them: “I already told you and you didn't listen. Why do you want to hear it again? You don't want to become His disciples too, do you?” 
They reviled him and said: “You are that fellow's disciple, but we are Moses' disciples. 
We know that God spoke to Moses; but this fellow—we don't know where he's from.” 
The man answered and said to them: “Why, this is remarkable—you don't know where He is from; yet He opened my eyes! 
Now we know that God doesn't listen to sinners; but if anyone is God-fearing and does His will, to him He listens. 
Since time began it was never heard that anyone opened the eyes of a person born blind. 
If this man were not from God he would not be able to do anything.” 
They answered and said to him, “You were totally born in sins, and you are teaching us?” And they expelled him. 
Jesus heard that they had expelled him, and finding him He said to him, “Do you believe into the Son of God?” 
He answered and said, “And who is He, Lord, that I may believe into Him?” 
So Jesus said to him, “You have both seen Him and He is the One who is speaking with you.” 
So he said, “Lord, I believe!” And he worshiped Him. 
And Jesus said, “I came into this world for judgment, so that those who do not see may see, and those who ‘see’ may become blind.” 
And some of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these words and said to Him, “We aren't blind too, are we?” 
Jesus said to them: “If you were ‘blind’ you would not have sin. But now you say, ‘We see,’ so your sin remains. 
