Acts.
Chapter 28.
Following the rescue, they learned that the island was called Malta. 
Now the natives showed us unusual kindness, in that they kindled a fire and welcomed us all, because it had begun to rain and was cold. 
But when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and placed them on the fire, because of the heat a viper came out and fastened itself on his hand. 
So when the natives saw the beast hanging from his hand, they started saying to each other, “This man must be a murderer, whom Justice has not allowed to live, even though rescued from the sea.” 
But he just shook the beast off into the fire and suffered no harm. 
Well they were expecting him to swell up, or suddenly fall down dead; but after waiting for quite a while and seeing nothing unusual happening to him, they changed their mind and started saying he was a god. 
Now in that region there were properties belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius, who welcomed us and in a friendly manner took care of us for three days. 
Well it happened that the father of Publius was sick in bed with fever and dysentery; Paul went in to him, prayed, and laying his hands on him, healed him. 
So, when this had happened, the rest of those on the island who had diseases started coming and being healed; 
who also honored us in many ways, and when we put to sea they provided the necessary things. 
Now after three months we put to sea in an Alexandrian ship that had wintered in the island, whose figurehead was ‘the Twin Brothers’. 
We put in at Syracuse and stayed there three days; 
from there we tacked back and forth and arrived at Rhegium. After one day a south wind sprang up, and on the second day we came to Puteoli, 
where we found brothers who urged us to stay there seven days—that was how we went toward Rome. 
And the brothers there, when they heard about our circumstances, came out to meet us as far as Appii Forum and Three Inns. When Paul saw them he thanked God and took courage. 
Now when we entered Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the commander; but Paul was allowed to live by himself, with the soldier who guarded him. 
It happened that after three days Paul called together the leaders of the Jews; and when they had assembled he said to them: “Men, brothers, though I had done nothing against ‘the people’ or the ancestral customs, still I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans, 
who, when they had examined me, were intending to release me, because I was not guilty of any crime deserving death. 
But when the Jews spoke against it, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar; not that I had anything about which to accuse my nation. 
For this reason therefore I asked to see you and speak with you; it is because of the hope of Israel that I am bound with this chain.” 
So they said to him: “We have neither received letters from Judea concerning you, nor have any of the brothers who came reported or spoken any evil about you. 
But we desire to hear from you what you think; because as for this sect, we know that it is spoken against everywhere.” 
So arranging a day with him, even more people came to him at his lodging, to whom he kept expounding from morning until evening: solemnly testifying about the Kingdom of God and trying to convince them concerning Jesus, from both the Law of Moses and the Prophets. 
Well some were persuaded by what had been said, and some kept refusing to believe. 
So being in disagreement among themselves they started to leave, after Paul had said this one word: “The Holy Spirit spoke correctly to our fathers through Isaiah the prophet, 
saying: ‘Go to this people and say, “You will keep on hearing, but never understand; you will keep on seeing, but never perceive”; 
because the heart of this people has become sluggish, and their ears are hard of hearing, and their eyes they have closed; in order that they not see with their eyes, nor hear with their ears, nor understand with their heart, nor turn back, so I could heal them.’ 
Therefore let it be known to you that the salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles; they will listen!” 
And when he had said these things the Jews went their way, having a great dispute among themselves. 
Paul stayed two whole years in his own rented house, and received all who came to see him, 
proclaiming the Kingdom of God and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ, with all boldness, without hindrance. 
