Acts.
Chapter 2.
When the day of Pentecost had come, they were all together with one purpose. 
And suddenly a roar came out of the sky, like the rushing of a violent wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. 
Fiery tongues appeared and were distributed to them, and it a tongue landed on each one of them. 
And they were all filled with Holy Spirit and began to speak different languages, as the Spirit was granting to them to speak out. 
Now there were devout men, Jews, from every nation under heaven, dwelling in Jerusalem. 
So when that roar occurred, the crowd came together, and was bewildered, because each one was hearing them speaking to him in his own dialect. 
So they were amazed and marveled, saying to one another: “Hey, aren't all these who are speaking Galileans? 
So how can each of us be hearing our own dialect in which we were born? 
Parthians and Medes and Elamites; those dwelling in Mesopotamia, in Judea and Cappadocia, in Pontus and Asia, 
in Phrygia and Pamphylia, in Egypt and the parts of Libya adjoining Cyrene; and visitors from Rome—both Jews and proselytes— 
Cretans and Arabians; we hear them declaring the great works of God in our own languages.” 
Yes they were all amazed and perplexed, saying one to another, “Whatever is going on?” 
But different ones were jeering, saying, “They are full of sweet wine!” 
So Peter, standing with the eleven, raised his voice and proclaimed to them: “Men—Jews and all who are dwelling in Jerusalem—let this be known to you; indeed, listen to my speech! 
Because these are not drunk, as you suppose (since it is only the third hour of the day), 
but this is what was spoken through the prophet Joel: 
‘It will be in the last days, says God: I will pour out from my Spirit upon all flesh; your sons and your daughters will prophesy; your young men will see visions; your old men will dream a dream. 
In those days I will indeed pour out from my Spirit upon my male slaves and upon my female slaves, and they will prophesy. 
I will show wonders in the heaven above and signs on the earth below: blood and fire and smoke vapor. 
The sun will be turned into darkness and the moon into ‘blood’ before the great and glorious day of the Lord will come. 
And it will be: whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved!’ 
“Men of Israel, listen to these words: Jesus the Natsorean, a man from God attested to you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by Him in your midst, as you yourselves well know, 
Him—being delivered up by the established purpose and foreknowledge of God—you murdered, having taken Him with lawless hands and crucified Him; 
whom God raised up, ending the labor pains of death, because it was not possible that He should be held by it. 
For David says concerning Him: ‘I always saw the Lord before my face, because He is at my right side so that I not be shaken. 
Therefore my heart was glad and my tongue rejoiced. Furthermore, even my flesh will repose upon hope, 
because You will not abandon my soul in Hades, nor will You allow Your Holy One to see decay. 
You have made known to me roads of life; with Your presence You make me full of gladness.’ 
“Men, brothers, be it permitted to speak to you plainly about the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. 
So then, he being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn to him with an oath that of the fruit, according to flesh, of his loins He would raise up the Messiah to sit on his throne, 
he foreseeing this spoke about the resurrection of the Messiah, that His soul was not abandoned in Hades, nor did His flesh see decay. 
“This Jesus God raised, to which we all are witnesses. 
Therefore, having been exalted to God's right hand, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, He poured out this that you now see and hear. 
Further, David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says: ‘The Lord said to my Lord: Sit at my right hand 
until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet.’ 
Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made Him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified!” 
Now upon hearing this they were cut to the heart and said to Peter, and the rest of the Apostles, “Men, brothers, what shall we do?!” 
So Peter said to them: “Repent and be baptized, each one of you, upon the name of Jesus Christ, for forgiveness of sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. 
For the promise is to you, and to your children, and to all who are far away—as many, that is, as the Lord our God may call.” 
With many different words he both testified and kept exhorting, saying, “Escape from this perverse generation!” 
Then those who gladly received his word were baptized, and that day about three thousand souls were added. 
And they continued steadfastly in the Apostles' teaching and in the fellowship, both in the breaking of the bread and in the prayers. 
Fear came upon every soul—many wonders and signs were taking place through the Apostles. 
Now all who believed were together and had all things in common; 
they started selling both possessions and goods and were distributing to all according as anyone had need. 
So day by day they continued steadfastly with one purpose in the temple and broke bread from house to house; they received their share of food with gladness and singleness of heart, 
praising God and having favor with all the people. And day by day the Lord added to the Church those who were being saved. 
