1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 5.
Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you do not need to be written to, 
for you yourselves know very well that the Day of the Lord comes just like a thief in the night. 
For whenever they say, “Peace and safety!” then sudden destruction is standing near them, like labor pains to a pregnant woman, and they will not escape. 
But you, brothers, are not in darkness so that this Day should come upon you like a thief. 
You are all sons of light and sons of day; we are not of night, nor of darkness. 
So then, let us not sleep, like the rest, but let us stay alert and sober; 
because those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, get drunk at night; 
but we being of day, let us be sober, putting on a breastplate of faith and love, and a helmet of hope of salvation. 
For God did not appoint us to undergo wrath but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
who died for us so that whether awake or asleep we may live together with Him. 
Therefore encourage one another and build each other up, as in fact you do. 
Now we urge you, brothers, to recognize those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you, 
and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves. 
Now we exhort you, brothers: admonish the disorderly, encourage the fainthearted, be supportive of the weak, be patient toward all. 
See that no one pays back bad for bad to anyone, but always pursue the good, both for one another and for all. 
Rejoice always! 
Pray continually! 
Give thanks in everything, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. 
Do not quench the Spirit! 
Do not disdain prophesies, 
but test everything; hold on to the good. 
Keep away from every form of evil! 
Now may the God of peace Himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
He who calls you is faithful, and He will do it. 
Brothers, pray for us. 
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. 
I adjure you by the Lord that this letter be read to all the holy brothers. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. 
