Matthew.
Chapter 28.
Now after the Sabbath, at the dawning of the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene, and the other Mary, came to see the tomb. 
Now then, a big earthquake had occurred, because an angel of the Lord, descending out of heaven, had come and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat on it! 
And his appearance was like lightning and his clothing as white as snow. 
So the guards were shaken for fear of him, and became like dead men. 
Now the angel spoke up and said to the women: “Do not be afraid! I know that you are looking for the Jesus who was crucified. 
He is not here, because He is risen, just like He said! Come, see the place where the Lord was lying. 
Now go quickly and tell His disciples that He is risen from the dead; and get this, He is going before you into Galilee; there you will see Him. There, I have told you!” 
So they went out quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to report to His disciples. 
But as they were going to report to His disciples, wow, Jesus met them saying, “Rejoice!” So approaching, they held His feet and worshiped Him. 
Then Jesus says to them: “Do not be afraid! Go report to my brothers that they must go to Galilee, and there they will see me.” 
Now while they were going, get this, some of the guard went into the city and reported to the chief priests all that had happened. 
When they had met with the elders and consulted together, they gave plenty of money to the soldiers 
saying: “Say that his disciples came at night and stole him while you were sleeping. 
And should this get to the governor, we will persuade him and make you safe.” 
So taking the money they did as they were instructed. Their tale is widely spread among the Jews until this day. 
The eleven disciples went into Galilee to the mountain that Jesus had indicated to them. 
When they saw Him they worshiped Him; but some doubted. 
And approaching Jesus asserted to them saying: “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 
As you go, make disciples in all ethnic nations: baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit; 
teaching them to obey everything that I commanded you; and take note, I am with you every day, until the end of the age!” Amen. 
