Acts.
Chapter 24.
Now after five days the high priest Ananias went down with the elders and a certain orator, Tertullus, and they informed the governor against Paul. 
So when he had been called in, Tertullus began his accusation, saying: “Seeing that by you we enjoy much peace, and your foresight has brought prosperity to this nation, 
we recognize this, most noble Felix, with full gratitude, always and everywhere. 
But so as not to detain you unduly, I would request that you be kind enough to hear us briefly. 
We have found this man to be a plague, a creator of discord among all the Jews throughout the world, a ringleader of the Natsorean sect, 
and he even tried to profane the temple; so we arrested him. 
By examining him yourself you may ascertain all these things of which we accuse him.” 
And the Jews also joined in the attack, affirming that these things were so. 
When the governor had nodded to him to speak, Paul answered: “Knowing, as I do, that you have been an equitable judge of this nation for many years, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself, 
because you can ascertain that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem to worship. 
They did not find me disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd—not in the temple, not in the synagogues, not around the city. 
Nor can they prove the things of which they now accuse me. 
But I do profess this to you, that according to the Way that they call a sect, that is how I worship the ancestral God, believing all things that stand written throughout the Law and the Prophets, 
having hope in God, which these themselves also look for, that there will be a resurrection of the dead, both the just and unjust. 
And this is why I apply myself to always have a clear conscience before both God and men. 
Now after many years I came to bring alms and offerings to my nation, 
in the midst of which certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, with neither crowd nor confusion. 
They are the ones that had to be here before you and make accusation, if they had anything against me. 
Or let these themselves say what wrong they found in me, when I stood before the council, 
unless it be for this one statement that I called out, standing among them, ‘Concerning the resurrection of the dead I am being judged by you today.’ ” 
Upon hearing these things Felix, having an accurate knowledge of the things concerning the Way, adjourned the proceedings and said, “When Lysias the commander comes down I will decide your case.” 
And he ordered the centurion that Paul should be kept in custody but have some freedom, and not to forbid any of his friends to provide for or to visit him. 
Now after some days, when Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was a Jewess, he sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith into Christ Jesus. 
But as he expounded on righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix became afraid and answered, “Go away for now; when I have occasion I will summon you.” 
At the same time he was also hoping that Paul would give him money, that he might release him; so he frequently summoned and conversed with him. 
But after two years, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus; so Felix, wanting to do the Jews a favor, left Paul in prison. 
