Matthew.
Chapter 19.
Now it happened, when Jesus had finished these words, that He departed from Galilee and went to the borders of Judea beyond the Jordan. 
And large crowds followed Him and there He healed them. 
The Pharisees also came to Him to test Him, saying to Him, “Is it permissible for a man to divorce his wife for just any cause?” 
So in answer He said to them: “Have you never read that the Creator at the beginning made them a male and a female? 
And He said, ‘For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall be turned into one flesh.’ 
So then, they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God joined together let not man separate!” 
They say to Him, “Why then did Moses command to give a certificate of divorce and to dismiss her?” 
He says to them: “Because of your hard-heartedness Moses permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it has not been so. 
And I say to you that whoever divorces his wife, except for fornication, and marries another commits adultery; and whoever marries a divorcee commits adultery.” 
His disciples say to Him, “If that's the situation of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry!” 
So He said to them: “Not all can assimilate this word, but those to whom it has been given. 
For there are eunuchs who were born that way, from their mother's womb; and there are eunuchs who were castrated by men; and there are eunuchs who castrated themselves for the sake of the kingdom of the heavens. He who is able to assimilate it, let him assimilate.” 
Then little children were brought to Him, that He might lay hands on them and pray; but the disciples rebuked them. 
So Jesus said, “Let the little children come to me and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of the heavens.” 
And after laying hands on them He moved on from there. 
And then, a certain one came and said to Him, “Good teacher, what good thing must I do so that I may have eternal life?” 
But He said to him: “Why do you call me good? No one is good except One, God. But if you want to enter into the life, keep the commandments.” 
He says to Him, “Which ones?” So Jesus said: “ ‘You shall not murder,’ ‘You shall not commit adultery,’ ‘You shall not steal,’ ‘You shall not give false witness,’ 
‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ ” 
The young man says to Him: “I have kept all these things since my youth. What do I still lack?” 
Jesus said to him, “If you want to be perfect, go sell your possessions and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come follow me.” 
So upon hearing that word the young man went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. 
Then Jesus said to His disciples: “Assuredly I say to you that only with difficulty will a rich person enter into the kingdom of the heavens. 
And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter into the kingdom of God.” 
Upon hearing it His disciples were really flabbergasted saying, “Who then can be saved?” 
So looking at them Jesus said, “With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.” 
Then Peter answered and said to Him: “See, we have left all and followed you. So what will we have?” 
So Jesus said to them: “Assuredly I say to you that in the Regeneration, when the Son of the Man sits on the throne of His glory, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 
And, everyone who left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or fields for my name's sake will receive a hundredfold, and will inherit life eternal. 
But many ‘first’ will be last, and ‘last’ first. 
