Romans.
Chapter 16.
I commend to you our sister Phoebe, who is a servant of the congregation in Cenchrea, 
so that you may receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints, and assist her in whatever matter she may need from you; for indeed she herself has been a helper of many, including my own self. 
Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, 
who risked their own necks for my life; to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the congregations of the Gentiles. 
And greet the congregation that is in their house. Greet my beloved Epaenetus, who is the first convert to Christ from Achaia. 
Greet Mary, who worked very hard for you. 
Greet Andronicus and Junias, my countrymen and my fellow prisoners, who are outstanding among the apostles, and who were in Christ before me. 
Greet Amplias, my beloved in the Lord. 
Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and my beloved Stachys. 
Greet Apelles, approved in Christ. Greet those who are of the household of Aristobulus. 
Greet Herodian, my countryman. Greet those who are of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord. 
Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, who have worked hard in the Lord. Greet the beloved Persis, who has worked very hard in the Lord. 
Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord, also his mother, and mine. 
Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brothers who are with them. 
Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, also Olympus and all the saints who are with them. 
Greet one another with a holy kiss. The congregations of Christ greet you. 
Now I exhort you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and offenses, contrary to the doctrine you have learned, and avoid them. 
Because such people do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly, and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the unsuspecting. 
I rejoice over you because your obedience has become known to all, but I want you to be wise as to what is good, yet innocent as to what is evil. 
The God of peace will quickly crush Satan under your feet! The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, as do Lucius, Jason and Sosipater, my countrymen. 
I, Tertius, who penned this letter in the Lord, greet you. 
Gaius, host to me and the whole congregation, greets you. Erastus, the city treasurer, greets you, as does brother Quartus. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with us all! Amen. 
