Romans.
Chapter 12.
Now then, brothers, I exhort you, in view of God's compassions, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy, satisfying to God—your intelligent duty. 
Yes, stop conforming to the pattern of this world; rather, be transformed by the renewing of your mind so as to be able to experience the good and satisfying and perfect will of God. 
Based on the grace given to me, I say to everyone among you not to set your sights higher than you should, but set them sensibly, as God has apportioned a measure of faith to each. 
Because just as in one body we have many parts, but all the parts do not have the same function, 
so we, who are many, are one body in Christ and individually members of one another. 
Since we have different spiritual gifts according to the grace that was given us, let us use them: if prophecy, according to the analogy of the Faith; 
if serving, in the serving; if teaching, in the teaching; 
if exhorting, in the exhortation; the sharer, with simplicity; the leader, with diligence; the mercy-shower, with cheerfulness. 
Love is to be genuine: abhorring the malignant; clinging to the good; 
showing family affection to one another in brotherly love; in honor preferring one another; 
not lagging in diligence; serving the Lord with an enthusiastic spirit; 
rejoicing in the hope; enduring the affliction; continuing steadfastly in prayer; 
distributing to the needs of the saints; practicing hospitality. 
Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse. 
Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. 
Regard each other as being on the same level—do not distinguish the upper classes, but associate with the lower classes; do not exalt yourself. 
Do not repay anyone evil for evil. Have regard for things that everyone considers to be good. 
If possible, what depends on you, live at peace with everyone. 
Dear ones, do not avenge yourselves; rather give place to the wrath; for it is written: “Vengeance is up to me; I will repay,” says the Lord. 
Therefore, “If your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him a drink; for in doing this you will heap coals of fire on his head.” 
Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome the evil with the good. 
