Revelation.
Chapter 2.
“To the messenger of the church in Ephesus write: “These things says He who holds the seven stars on His right hand, who walks about in the midst of the seven golden lampstands: 
‘I know your works, yes the labor, and your endurance, and that you cannot stand those who are evil. And you have tested those who claim to be apostles and are not, and found them to be liars; 
and you have born up and endured on account of my name, and not grown weary. 
“ ‘Nevertheless I have against you that you have left your first love. 
So think about from where you have drifted and repent, and do the first works, or else I will come at you swiftly and remove your lampstand out of its place—unless you do repent. 
But you do have this, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.’ 
“He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. To the one who overcomes I will grant to eat of the Tree of Life, which is in the midst of the Paradise of my God. 
“And to the messenger of the church in Smyrna write: “These things says the First and the Last, who became dead and came to life: 
‘I know your works and affliction and poverty (but you are rich), and the slander of those who claim to be Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. 
Do not fear any of the things that you are about to suffer: Take note, the devil is really about to throw some of you into prison, so that you may be tested, and you will have an affliction of ten days. Stay faithful until death and I will give you the crown of life.’ 
“He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. The one who overcomes will absolutely not be harmed by the second death. 
“And to the messenger of the church in Pergamos write: “These things says He who has the sharp two-edged sword: 
‘I know your works, and where you live, where Satan's throne is. And you hold my name fast and did not deny my faith during the days in which Antipas was my faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan lives. 
“ ‘Nevertheless I have a few things against you, because you have there adepts of the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balak to throw a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, to eat things offered to idols and to fornicate. 
Thus you also have adepts of the doctrine of the Nicolaitans as well. 
Repent! Or else I will come at you swiftly and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.’ 
“He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. To the one who overcomes I will grant to eat from the hidden manna. And I will give him a white pebble, and on the pebble a new name written, which no one knows except the receiver. 
“And to the messenger of the church in Thyatira write: “These things says the Son of God, He who has the eyes like a flame of fire and the feet like fine brass: 
‘I know your works—the love, the faith, the service—and your endurance; in fact your last works are greater than the first. 
“ ‘Nevertheless I have against you that you tolerate your wife Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess and teaches and deceives my slaves to fornicate and to eat things offered to idols. 
I even gave her time so that she might repent, but she does not want to repent of her fornication. 
So, I am throwing her into a sickbed and those adulterating with her into great affliction, unless they repent of her works. 
And I will execute her children; and all the churches will know that I am the One who searches minds and hearts, and I will give to each one of you according to your works. 
“ ‘Now to the rest of you who are in Thyatira I say—to as many as do not hold this teaching, those who have not known the depths of Satan, as they say—I will not put any other burden on you; 
just hold fast what you have until I come. 
And as for the one who overcomes and keeps my works until the end, I will give him authority over the nations; 
and he will shepherd them with a rod of iron; they will be smashed like clay pots 
—just as I have received from my Father. And I will give him the morning star.’ 
“He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. 
