1 Corinthians.
Chapter 4.
Let a man consider us like this: as Christ's subordinates and stewards of God's mysteries. 
Moreover, what is required of stewards is that each be found faithful. 
So to me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by a human court; in fact, I do not even judge myself. 
For I am conscious of nothing against myself, although I am not justified by this; it is the Lord who judges me. 
Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and expose the motives of the hearts. At that time the praise that comes to each will be from God. 
I have illustrated these things using myself and Apollos, brothers, for your sakes, so that you may learn from us not to think beyond what is written, that no one of you be puffed up in favor of the one against the other. 
Now who is distinguishing you? Or what do you have that you did not receive? So if you did indeed receive it, why do you boast as though you did not? 
You are already stuffed! You are already rich! You have become ‘kings’ without us! I could wish that you really did reign, so that we might be kings with you too! 
For I keep thinking that God has displayed us, the apostles, at the end of the line, like men sentenced to death; because we have been made a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men. 
We are fools for Christ while you are wise! We are weak but you are strong! You are esteemed, we are despised! 
To this very hour we go hungry and thirsty; we are poorly dressed, brutally treated, and wander homeless; 
yes, we labor, working with our own hands. Upon being reviled, we bless; upon being persecuted, we endure it; 
upon being slandered, we exhort. We have been made as the refuse of the world, the off-scouring of whatever, to this moment. 
I am not writing these things to shame you; I am admonishing you as my dear children. 
Because even if you were to have thousands of tutors in Christ, you would not have many fathers, because I am the one who begot you in Christ Jesus, through the Gospel. 
Therefore I am urging you, become my imitators. 
That is why I sent you Timothy, who is my beloved and faithful son in Sovereign, who will remind you of my ways in Christ, just as I teach everywhere in every congregation. 
Now some have been puffed up, as though I were not coming to you. 
But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord wills, and I will know, not the word of those who have been puffed up, but the power. 
Because the Kingdom of God is not in word but in power. 
What do you prefer? Shall I come to you with a rod, or in love and a gentle spirit? 
