1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 4.
Finally then, brothers, we urge and exhort you in the Lord Jesus: as you received from us how you ought to behave and please God, do so even more 
—you know what instructions we gave you through Sovereign Jesus. 
Now this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you stay away from fornication; 
that each of you know how to gain possession of his own ‘vessel’ in sanctification and honor, 
not in lustful passion (like the heathen who do not know God); 
that no one trespass and defraud his brother in this matter, because the Lord is the avenger of all such behavior, as, indeed, we have already told you and warned you. 
Because God did not call us for uncleanness, but by holiness. 
So then, the rejecter is not rejecting man, but God, the very One who gave you His Holy Spirit. 
Now about brotherly love you do not need to be written to, for you yourselves are taught by God to love one another, 
because in fact you are doing so toward all the brothers throughout Macedonia. Still, we exhort you to do even more, brothers, 
to make it a point to be peaceable and to mind your own business, to work with your hands (as we instructed you), 
so that outsiders may be well impressed by your life style, and that you may have no lack. 
Now then, brothers, we do not want you to be ignorant about those who have ‘fallen asleep’, so that you do not grieve like the rest, who have no hope. 
Because since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, just so will God bring with Jesus those who have fallen asleep in Him. 
For this we say to you by a word of the Lord, that we who are still alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will absolutely not precede those who have fallen asleep; 
because the Lord Himself—with a commanding shout, with the archangel's voice and with God's trumpet—will come down from heaven, and the dead in Christ will rise first; 
then we who are still alive, who are left, will be snatched up together with them in clouds to meet the Lord in the air. In precisely this way we will always be with the Lord. 
So then, comfort one another with these words. 
