Acts.
Chapter 5.
Now a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession 
and kept back part of the price for himself, his wife also being party to it; bringing a certain part he placed it at the Apostles' feet. 
So Peter said: “Ananias, on what basis has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back for yourself part of the price of the land? 
While it remained unsold was it not yours, and once sold was it not in your power? How is it that you have conceived this thing in your heart? You did not lie to men but to God.” 
Well upon hearing these words Ananias fell down and expired! (Great fear came on all who heard these things.) 
So the young men got up and wrapped him, and carrying him out they buried him. 
Now after an interval of some three hours his wife came in, not knowing what had happened. 
So Peter addressed her, “Tell me whether you sold the land for so much.” So she said, “Yes, for so much.” 
Peter said to her: “How is it that you have agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Look, the feet of those who buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out!” 
So she immediately fell down at his feet and expired! So upon entering the young men found her dead, and carrying her out they buried her beside her husband. 
So great fear came on the whole assembly and on all who heard these things. 
Now many signs and wonders were being performed among the people by the hands of the Apostles; and they were all in Solomon's Porch with one purpose. 
None of the rest dared to join them, but the people were magnifying them. 
Believers were increasingly added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women, 
to the point that they kept carrying the sick into the streets, placing them on cots and pallets, so that as Peter came by at least his shadow might fall on some of them. 
Further, the multitude from the surrounding cities also kept coming into Jerusalem, bringing sick people and those who were tormented by unclean spirits, and they were all healed. 
Then the high priest rose up, and all those with him (being the sect of the Sadducees); they were filled with jealousy 
and laid their hands on the Apostles and put them in the common prison. 
But, during the night an angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison, and leading them out he said, 
“Go, stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this Life.” 
So upon hearing it they entered the temple about daybreak and started to teach. Then the high priest and those with him arrived and convened the Sanhedrin, even all the council of elders of the sons of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought. 
Well, upon arriving the operatives did not find them in the jail, so they returned and reported, 
saying: “We certainly found the prison securely locked, and the guards standing in front of the doors, but upon opening them we found no one inside!” 
Now when the high priest, the captain of the temple, and the chief priests heard these words, they were really perplexed as to what the implications might be. 
But someone came and told them, “Hey, the men whom you put in the jail are standing in the temple and teaching the people!” 
Then the captain went with the operatives and brought them without violence, because they were afraid that the people might stone them. 
So bringing them they set them before the Sanhedrin; and the high priest addressed them 
saying: “Did we not emphatically command you not to teach in this name? Just look, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you intend to bring this man's blood on us!” 
So in answer Peter and the Apostles said: “One must obey God rather than men. 
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you murdered by hanging on a tree. 
Him God has exalted to His right hand as Prince and Savior, to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins. 
And we are witnesses to these statements about Him, as also is the Holy Spirit whom God has given to those obeying Him.” 
Well upon hearing it they became infuriated and started plotting to kill them. 
But someone in the council stood up (a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law respected by all the people) and commanded to put the Apostles out for a bit. 
He then said to them: “Men, Israelites, take heed to yourselves concerning these men, as to what you are about to do. 
For some time ago Theudas rose up, claiming to be somebody; with whom about four hundred men joined up; who was killed, and all who obeyed him were scattered and came to nothing. 
Later Judas the Galilean rose up, in the days of the census, and drew away many people after him. He also perished, and all who obeyed him were dispersed. 
So now I say to you, keep away from these men and leave them alone; because if this counsel or this work should be of men, it will be abolished; 
but if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow it—lest you even be found to be fighting against God!” 
Well they were persuaded by him, and summoned the Apostles; after beating them they commanded them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go. 
So they went out rejoicing from the presence of the council, in that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name of the Christ. 
And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not stop teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ. 
