Matthew.
Chapter 16.
The Pharisees and Sadducees came, and testing Him they asked Him to show them a sign from heaven. 
But in answer He said to them: “When it is evening you say, ‘Fair weather, for the sky is red’; 
and in the morning, ‘Today will be stormy, for the sky is red and overcast.’ Hypocrites! You know how to discern the face of the sky, but cannot discern the signs of the times. 
A malignant and adulterous generation seeks a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah.” And leaving them behind He went away. 
Upon arriving at the other side His disciples had forgotten to take bread. 
Then Jesus said to them, “Watch and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.” 
So they reasoned among themselves saying, “It's because we didn't bring any bread.” 
But Jesus, being aware, said to them: “You little-faiths! Why are you reasoning among yourselves because you didn't bring any bread? 
Do you not yet perceive nor remember the five loaves of the five thousand and how many baskets you took up? 
Nor the seven loaves of the four thousand and how many hampers you took up? 
How come you don't perceive that it wasn't about bread that I told you to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees?” 
Then they understood that He did not say to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and Sadducees. 
When Jesus came into the region of Caesarea Philippi He questioned His disciples saying, “Who do people say that I, the Son of the Man, am?” 
So they said, “Some say John the Baptizer, others Elijah, and still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets.” 
He says to them, “But you, who do you say that I am?” 
So in answer Simon Peter said, “You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God!” 
And in answer Jesus said to him: “Blessed are you, Simon son of Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in the heavens. 
And I further say to you that you are a stone, but on this bedrock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not withstand her. 
And I will give you (sg) the keys of the kingdom of the heavens, and whatever you bind on earth will have been bound in the heavens, and whatever you loose on earth will have been loosed in the heavens.” 
Then He ordered His disciples not to tell anyone that He was the Messiah. 
From then on Jesus began to show to His disciples that He had to go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised on the third day. 
So taking Him aside Peter began to rebuke Him saying: “Mercy to you, Lord! This shall not happen to you!” 
But turning He said to Peter: “Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling block to me, because you are not mindful of God's values, but of men's values.” 
Then Jesus said to His disciples: “If anyone desires to come after me, let him really deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. 
For whoever desires to save his life will waste it, but whoever ‘wastes’ his life on my account will find it. 
For what is a man profited if he gains the whole world but forfeits his life? Or what will a man give in exchange for his life? 
For the Son of the Man will certainly come in the glory of His Father with His angels, and then He will recompense each according to his performance. 
Assuredly I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of the Man coming in His kingdom.” 
