Luke.
Chapter 4.
Then Jesus, full of Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, 
where He was tested for forty days by the devil. He ate nothing at all during those days, so after they were completed He was hungry. 
So the devil said to Him, “Since you are Son of God, tell this stone to become bread!” 
Jesus answered him saying, “It is written: ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.’ ” 
And taking Him up on a high mountain, the devil showed Him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. 
The devil said to Him: “To you I will give all this authority, and their glory, because it has been handed over to me, and I give it to whomever I want to. 
So you, if you would worship before me, all will be yours.” 
In answer Jesus said to him: “Get behind me, Satan! It is written, ‘You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve!’ ” 
He also took Him to Jerusalem and set Him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to Him: “Since you are Son of God, throw yourself down from here; 
because it is written, ‘He will give His angels orders concerning you, to protect you,’ 
and, ‘They will carry you along on their hands, so you do not stub your foot on a stone.’ ” 
In answer Jesus said to him: “The statement stands, ‘You shall not test the Lord your God!’ ” 
Having finished every test, the devil departed from Him until an opportune time. 
Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee, and news about Him spread throughout the whole surrounding area; 
yes, He started teaching in their synagogues, being glorified by all. 
So He came to Natsareth, where He had been brought up; as was His custom He went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stood up to read. 
The book of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him, so unrolling the scroll He found the place where it was written: 
“The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He has anointed me to evangelize poor people. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim release to captives and recovery of sight to blind people, to send those who are oppressed out in freedom, 
to proclaim the Lord's favorable year.” 
Then, having rolled up the scroll and returned it to the attendant, He sat down. The eyes of everyone in the synagogue were fastened on Him, 
and He began by saying to them, “Today, this Scripture in your ears has been fulfilled.” 
(All were bearing witness to Him and were marveling at the gracious words that were coming out of His mouth; and they started saying, “Isn't this the son of Joseph?”) 
He said to them: “Doubtless you will quote this parable to me: ‘Physician, heal yourself!’—do here in your hometown the things we have heard were done in Capernaum.” 
Then He said: “Assuredly I say to you, no prophet is welcome in his hometown. 
Further, I can assure you that there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was shut for three years and six months and a severe famine came over all the land; 
yet Elijah was not sent to any of them, but to a widow woman in Sarepta, near Sidon. 
And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, yet not one of them was cleansed—just Naaman the Syrian.” 
Well, upon hearing these things everyone in the synagogue was filled with fury, 
and rising up they drove Him out of the town and took Him to the brow of the hill on which the town was built, in order to throw Him off the cliff. 
But He, passing through the middle of them, went on His way. 
Then He went down to Capernaum, a town in Galilee; He started teaching them on the Sabbaths. 
They kept on being amazed at His teaching, because His word was with authority. 
Now in the synagogue was a man having a spirit of an unclean demon; he cried out with a loud voice 
saying: “Ugh! What do you want with us, Jesus of Natsareth? Did you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God!” 
So Jesus rebuked him saying, “Be muzzled, and get out of him!” When the demon had thrown him down in the midst, it came out of him without harming him. 
Everyone was taken with amazement and they started conversing together, saying: “What is this word! For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out!” 
And the news about Him started going out to every place of the surrounding region. 
Then He left the synagogue and entered Simon's house. But Simon's mother-in-law was suffering with a high fever, and they requested Him on her behalf. 
So He stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her. Immediately she got up and began to serve them. 
Now when the sun was setting, all those who had any who were sick with various diseases brought them to Him; and He laid His hands on each one of them and healed them. 
Moreover, demons came out of many, crying out and saying, “You are the Christ, the Son of God!” But rebuking them He would not allow them to continue speaking, because they knew that He was the Messiah. 
Now at daybreak He departed and went to a deserted place; so the crowds started looking for Him and came to Him, and tried to keep Him from leaving them. 
But He said to them, “I must proclaim the good news of the Kingdom of God to the other towns also, because for this purpose I have been sent.” 
So He went preaching in the synagogues of Galilee. 
