John.
Chapter 16.
“I have spoken these things to you to avoid your being caused to stumble 
—they will excommunicate you; indeed, a time is coming when anyone who kills you will think he is offering God service! 
And they will do these things because they have not known either the Father or me. 
Now I have told you these things so that when the time comes you may remember that I told you about them; I did not tell you these things from the beginning because I was with you. 
“Now then, I am going away to Him who sent me, yet none of you asks me, ‘Where are you going?’ 
But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. 
Nevertheless I am telling you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, because if I do not go away the Enabler will not come to you, but if I do go I will send Him to you. 
“Now when He comes he will convict the world about sin and about righteousness and about judgment: 
first about sin, because they do not believe into me; 
then about righteousness, because I am going away to my Father and you will no longer see me; 
then about judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged. 
“I still have many things to say to you but you cannot bear it now. 
However, when He, the Spirit of the Truth, has come, He will guide you into all the truth; for He will not speak on His own, but He will speak whatever He hears. He will also communicate to you the things that are coming. 
He will glorify me because He will take of what is mine and communicate it to you. 
All that the Father has is mine; that is why I said that He takes from what is mine and will communicate it to you. 
“In just a little you will not see me, and in another little you will see me, because I am going to the Father.” 
Then some of His disciples said among themselves: “What is this that He is telling us, ‘In just a little you will not see me, and in another little you will see me,’ and because ‘I am going to the Father’?” 
So they said: “What is this ‘little’ that He mentions? We do not know what He is talking about.” 
Well Jesus knew that they were wanting to question Him and said to them: “Are you inquiring among yourselves about what I said, ‘In just a little you will not see me, and in another little you will see me’? 
Most assuredly I say to you that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice; you will become grieved, but your grief will be turned into joy. 
When a woman gives birth she has pain, because her time has come; but when the child is born she no longer remembers the anguish, for joy that a human being has been born into the world. 
So in your turn you are now experiencing grief, but I will see you again and your heart will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you. 
In that day you will not question me about anything. “Most assuredly I say to you that whatever you ask the Father in my name He will give you. 
Until now you have not asked anything in my name. Ask and you will receive, so that your joy may be made full. 
“I have told you these things using figures of speech, but a time is coming when I will no longer talk to you with figures of speech; rather I will tell you plainly about the Father. 
In that day you will ask in my name; I do not say to you that I will request the Father on your behalf, 
because the Father Himself is fond of you, in that you have become fond of me and have believed that I came forth from God. 
I did come forth from the Father and have come into the world. I am leaving the world again and am going to the Father.” 
His disciples say to Him: “Hey, now you are speaking plainly and using no figure of speech! 
Now we know that you know everything and don't need anyone to question you. By this we believe that you came forth from God.” 
Jesus answered them: “Do you believe now, really? 
Listen, an hour is coming, actually it has already arrived, that you will be scattered, each to his own, and you will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. 
I have spoken these things to you so that in me you may have peace. In the world you have oppression; but take heart, I have conquered the world!” 
