MADAM BOVARY

We were in study hall when the
Headmaster entered, followed by a “new boy” 
dressed in ordinary clothes and by a classmate who was 
carrying a large desk. Those who were asleep woke up, and every¬ 
one stood up as if taken imawares while at work. 

The Headmaster made us a sign to be seated; then, turning 
toward the master in charge of study hall: 

“Monsieur Roger,” he said in a low tone, “here is a student whom 
1 am putting in your charge. He is entering the fifth form. If his 
work and his conduct warrant it, he will be promoted to the upper 
forms, as befits his age.” 

Standing in the comer behind the door, so far back that one could 
scarcely see him, the new boy was a country lad of about fifteen, 
and taller th an any one of us. His hair was cut straight across his 
forehead like a village chorister s, his manner ingenuous and highly 
embarrassed. Although he was not broad in the shoulders, his suit 
coat of green cloth with black buttons must have been uncom¬ 
fortable for him aroimd the armholes, and exposed, below the 
edges of the cuffs, reddened wrists accustomed to being bare. EUs 
legs, in blue stockings, emerged from yellowish breeches pulled 
up very tight by his braces. He wore heavy shoes, badly polished 
and ornamented with nails. 

Recitations began. He listened to them with all his ears, attentive 
as if to a sermon, not even venturing to cross his legs or to lean on 
his elbow; and when the bell rang at two o’clock the study master 
was obliged to call his attention to it, to get him to take his place 
with us in line. 

It was our habit, upon entering a classroom, to throw down our 

S 



caps in order to leave our hands more free; the thing to do was, 
from the doorsill, to hurl them under the bench in such a way that 
they struck the wall, stirring up a great quantity of dust; that was 
the fashion. 

But, whether because he did not notice this maneuver or because 
he did not dare perform it, after the prayer was finished the new 
boy still held his cap upon his knees. It was one of those head 
coverings of a composite nature in which may be found elements 
of the woolen cap, the chapska, the roimd hat, the otter-fur cap 
and the cotton bonnet, one of those sorry objects, in short, whose 
mute ugliness has a certain depth of expression, like the face of 
an imbecile. Ovoid and stiffened with whalebones, it began wdth 
three circular sausage-rolls; then, separated by a red band, alternate 
lozenges of velvet and rabbit fur; there followed a land of sack 
which ended in a pasteboard polygon covered with a complicated 
design in braid, from which hung, at the end of a long and inadequate 
cord, a small gold thread ornament like a tassel. It was new; the 
visor gleamed. 

“Stand up,” the professor said. 

He stood; his cap fell. The whole class burst out laughing. 

He stooped to pick it up. The boy next to him pushed him with 
his elbow, causing him to drop it again; he picked it up once more. 

"'You had better extricate yourself from your cap,” said the pro¬ 
fessor, who was a man of wit. 

There was a shout of laughter from the students which so 
abashed the poor boy that he did not know whether he should 
hold his cap in his hand, leave it on the floor or put it on his head. 
He sat down again and placed it upon his knees. 

“Stand up,” the professor said, “and tell me your name.” 

The new boy, in a faltering voice, pronounced an unintelligible 
name. “Repeat itl” 

The same faltering syllables were heard, overridden by hoots 
from the class. 

“Louderl” the master shouted. “Louderl” 

The new boy, achieving a supreme resolution, then opened an 
inordinately large mouth and bawled at the top of his lungs, as if 
calling someone, the word **CharbovaTi.*^ 

There was an uproar which broke out upon the instant, rose in 

4 


crescendo, with piercing shrieks (we were shouting, howling, 
stamping, repeating: Charbovari! Charbovari!), then sank away into 
isolated notes, quieting with great difficulty, and suddenly swelling 
out again from time to time along the line of a bench where some 
stifled giggle still spurted up here and there like a carelessly ex¬ 
tinguished firecracker. 

However, under the rain of threatened extra tasks, order was 
gradually restored to the classroom, and the professor, having suc¬ 
ceeded in grasping the name of Chiles Bqyary, having had it dic¬ 
tated, spelled and reread, abrupTfy ordered the poor devil to go 
and sit on the dunce stool at the foot of the rostrum. He started to 
move, but hesitated. 

“What are you looking for?** the professor asked. 

“My cap . . .” the new boy said timidly, casting imeasy glances 
about him. 

“Five hundred lines for the whole classl” exclaimed in a furious 
voice, put a stop, like the Quos Ego, to a fresh outbreak. “Be still, 
now!” the professor added and, patting his forehead with the hand¬ 
kerchief he had just taken from his mortarboard: “As for you, new 
boy, you re to write the verb ridiculus sum for me, twenty times.” 

Then, in a gentler tone: 

“There, you'll find your cap. It hasn't been stolen.” 

Everyone was restored to calm. Heads bent above books, and 
the new boy remained for two hours in an exemplary position, al¬ 
though from time to time a random spitball, launched from a pen 
nib, came to splatter his face. He wiped it away with his hand and 
continued to sit motionless, his eyes lowered. 

That evening in study hall he took his sleeve guards from his desk, 
put his small effects in order and carefully ruled his paper. We saw 
him working conscientiously, looking up every word in the dic¬ 
tionary and taking infinite pains. Thanks, no doubt, to the good will 
he evidenced, he was not forced to go back to a lower form; foi 
although he had a passable knowledge of the rules, he had not 
the least elegance of style. It was the parish priest in his village who 
had started him in Latin, his parents having put off sending him 
away to school as long as possible, for financial reasons. 

C His father. Monsieur Charles-Denis-Bartholome Bovary, a for- L . 
mer assistant surgeon-major compromised in 1812, in a matter of f /! 

5 



conscription, and forced to leave the service, had then profited by 
his personal attributes to the extent of grasping on the fly a sixty- 
thousand-franc dowry offered in the form of a hosier s daughter who 
had fallen in love with his appearance. A handsome man, a brag¬ 
gart, jingling his spurs loudly, wearing sideburns which grew down 
to join his mustache, his fingers always laden &gt;vith rings, and 
dressed in gaudy colors, he had the look of a gallant with the easy 
friendliness of a traveling salesman. Once married, he lived for two 
or three years on his wife*s fortune, dining well, rising late, smoking 
great porcelain pipes, never coming home in the evening until after 
the theater, and frequenting cafes. The father-in-law died and left 
very little; he was outraged by this, set himself up as a textile 
manufacturer, lost some money at it, then retired to the country 
where he tried to making a living farming. But as he knew no more 
about cultivation than about fabrics, as he rode his horses rather 
than putting them to the plow, drank his cider by the bottle rather 
than selling it, ate the finest fowls from his poultry yard and greased 
his hunting boots with the bacon from his hogs, he was not slow 
to realize that it would be better to give up all speculation. &gt; 

Having an average income of two hundred francs a year, there¬ 
fore, he found for rent in the borderland between Caux and Picardy 
a sort of dwelling, half farm, half country seat; and, disillusioned, 
consumed with regrets, accusing heaven, jealous of all men, he went 
into retirement at the age of forty-five, disgusted with humanity, or 
so he said, and determined to live in peace. 

His.jyife had once been mad about him; she had loved him with a 
thou^n^ servile gestures which had alienated him from her even 
further. Formerly a gay woman, expansive and wholly affectionate, 
she had become, in growing older (like a wine gone fiat and turned 
to vinegar), difficult in temper, irritable, nervous. She had suffered 
so much, at first without complaint, when she saw him chasing after 
all the village wenches, and coming home to her every evening 
from a score of low haunts, surfeited and stinking of drinkl Then 
pride had rebelled. She had become silent, swallowing her rage 
in a mute stoicism which she preserved to her death. She was 
constantly in action, attending to his affairs. She went to lawyers, 
to the president, remembered the expiration dates of notes, secured 
extensions; and, at home, ironed, sewed, washed, supervised the 

6 



laborers, settled their accounts while Monsieur, without troubling 
himself over anything, forever immersed in a sullen drowsiness 
from which he emerged only to make disagreeable remarks to her, 
remained in the chimney comer, smoking and spitting into the 
ashes. 

When she had a child, he had to be put out to nurse. Returned 
home, the yoimgster was spoiled like a prince. The mother fed him 
on sweets; his father let him run about without shoes and, as a 
philosophical gesture, even said that he could just as well go naked, 
like animal children. In opposition to maternal tendencies, he had 
formed a certain virile ideal of childhood to which he tried to shape 
his son, wanting him to be brought up mggedly, in the Spartan 
manner, to develop a strong constitution. He sent him to sleep in an 
unheated room, taught him to swallow great drafts of rum and to 
insult processions. But, peaceful by nature, the boy responded 
poorly to his father’s efforts. His mother had him always at her 
heels; she cut out cardboard figures for him, told him stories, in¬ 
dulged in endless monologues with him, full of a melancholy gaiety 
and playful chatter. In the solitary life she led, she transferred to 
the child all her lost frustrated ambitions. She dreamed of high 
positions, she saw him already grown, handsome, inteUigent, 
established in the Department of Highways and Bridges or in the 
magistracy. She taught him to read, and even to sing two or three 
little ballads, accompanied by an old piano she had. But to all this 
Monsieur Bovary, httle interested in literary matters, said that it 
was not worth the trouble! Would they ever have the money to put 
him through government school, buy him an office or a business? 
Besides, with cheek, a man always gets along in the world. Madame 
Bovary bit her Ups, and the boy roamed the village at will. 

He followed the laborers about and chased crows, flinging clods 
of earth at them as they flew away. He ate mulberries along the 
ditches and drove turkeys with a switch, pitched hay at harvest 
time, wandered about the woods, played hopscotch in the church 
porch on rainy days and, on holy days, begged the beadle to let 
him 3ri[ng the bells in order to hang all the weight of his body on 
the great rope and feel hims elf carried off the ground by it. 

So he grew like an oak tree. He developed strong hands, a fine \ 
cobr. 


7 



When he was twelve his mother contrived to have his schooling 
started. The parish priest was put in charge of it. But the lessons 
were so short and so ill conducted that they could be of but little 
use. They were given in spare moments, hastily, standing in the 
sacristy between a baptism and a funeral; the rain would come to 
interrupt them, or a passing acquaintance. Besides, he was always 
pleased with him, even saying that the "younQ man" had an ex¬ 
cellent memory. 

Charles could not leave it at that: Madame was vehement. 
Ashamed, or, rather, wearied. Monsieur yielded without resistance, 
and they waited another year for the boy to have made his first 
Communion. 

A further six months passed; and, the following year, Charles 
was finally sent to the boys’ school in Rouen, where his father him¬ 
self took him, toward the end of October, at the time of the Saint- 
Romain fair. 

Through application he kept always about the middle of the 
class; once he even took first prize in natural history. But at the 
end of his third year his parents took him out of school to have 
him study medicine, convinced that he would be able to go on 
alone to his bachelor’s degree. 

His mother chose a room for him, on the fourth floor in the Eau- 
de-Robec, in the home of a dyer she knew. She made arrange¬ 
ments for his board, bought furniture—a table and two chairs— 
had an old cherry-wood bed sent on from home, and bought be¬ 
sides a small iron stove with a supply of wood to keep her poor 
child warm. Then she left, at the end of a week, with a thousand 
injimctions to behave himself properly, now that he was about to 
be abandoned to his own devices. 

The list of courses, which he read on the bulletin board, had a 
stupefying effect upon him; courses in anatomy, pathology, physi¬ 
ology, pharmacy, chemistry, botany, and clinical medicine, and 
therapeutics, not to mention hygiene and materia medica, all 
names whose etymdJogy was unfamiliar to him and which were 
like so many doonTopenlng into sanctuaries full of an august gloom. 

He understood nothing; it was in vain that he listened, he did 
not grasp anything. Still, he worked, he had boimd notebooks. He 
attended every coinse, he did not miss a single class. He accom- 

8 



plished his small daily chore in the manner of a riding-school horse 
which goes through its paces with bandaged eyes, ignorant of 
the labor it grinds out. 

To spare him expense, his mother sent him each week, by post, 
a piece of roast veal upon which he lunched when he had returned 
from his morning at the hospital, tramping all the way on foot. 
Afterwards he had to hurry to lessons, to the amphitheater, to the 
clinic, and back to his room through all those streets. In the evening, 
after a meager dinner with his landlord, he returned to his room 
and set to work again in his damp clothes which steamed on his 
body before the glowing stove. 

On fine summer evenings, at the hour when the warm streets 
are deserted, when servants play at shuttlecock on the doorsteps, he 
would open his window and lean on his elbows there. The river, 
which makes a sort of small ignoble Venice of this quarter of Rouen, 
flowed past beneath him, yellow, violet or blue between its bridges 
and gratings. Laborers, kneeling on the bank, washed their arms 
in the water. On poles rising above warehouse roofs, hanks of 
cotton were drying in the breeze. Opposite, beyond the roofs, the 
wide pure sky stretched, with a red sun setting. How good it must 
be at home! What coolness under the beech trees! And he widened 
his nostrils to breathe in the good country fragrance that could not 
reach this far. 

^ He grew thin, his body lengthened, and his face took on a sort 
of melancholy expression that made him almost interesting. 

Naturally, out of indifierence, he came to the point of ridding 
himself of all the resolutions he had made. Once he missed a clinic, 
the next day his class, and little by little, savoring his idleness, gave 
up his courses altogether. 

He fell into the habit of going to the tavern, and developed a 
passion for dominos. To shut himself up every evening in a dirty 
bar room, there to play on marble-topped tables with small bits 
of sheep-bone decorated with black spots, seemed a marveloiis 
gesture of freedom to him, one which raised him in his own 
estimation. It was like an initiation into the world, the introduction 
to forbidden pleasures; and, entering, he laid his hand upon the 
doorknob with an almost sensual delight Then many things re¬ 
pressed within him expanded; he memorized couplets which he 

9 



sang to the company, became enthusiastic over Beranger, learned 

to make punch and at last experienced love. 

Thanks to these preparatory exercises he made a complete Mure 

of his medical examinations. They were waiting for him at home, 

that very evening, to celebrate hix success! 

He set out on foot and stopped on the outskirts of the viUage, 

where he sent word to his mother to come, and told her everythmg. 
She made excuses for him, throwing the blame for his failure upon 
the injustice of the examiners, and fortified him somewhat by 

taking it upon herself to arrange matters. 

It was only five years later that Monsieur Bovary learned the 

truth; it was an old story, he accepted it, being unable, in any case, 

to imagine that any son of his could be a fool. 

So Charles returned to work and studied uninterrupte^y the 
subjects for his examination, all the questions of which he learned 
by heart in advance. He passed with a reasonably good grade. 
What a splendid day for his mother! She gave a great dinner party. 

Where should he go to practice? To Tostes. There was omy one 
elderly physician there. Madame Bovary had been awaiting his 
death for a long time, and the poor fellow had not yet taken this 
final step when Charles was installed across the street as his suc¬ 
cessor. , ... 

But having brou^t up her son, having made him study medicme 

and discovered Tostes for his practice was not all; he must have a 
wife. She found him one: the widow of a bailifiE from Dieppe, who 
was forty-five years old and had an income of twelve hundred 

livres. , j ti 

Although she was ugly, thin as a lath and pimpled like an 

adolescent, Madame Dubuc certainly did not lack suitors among 
whom to choose. To achieve her aim, Bovary’s mother was obliged 
to vanquish them all, and she very skilfully foiled even the mach¬ 
inations of a butcher who had the support of the priests. 

Charles had thought of marriage as an avenue to a better por¬ 
tion. imagining that he would be freer and would have the dis¬ 
position of his person and his money. But his wife was the master; 
in public he must say this, not say that, fast every Friday, dress 
as she saw fit, harass patients who failed to pay, at her order. She 
opened his lett^s, spied upon his activities, and listened throu^ 

10 



the wdll to the consultations he gave in his oflSce, when there were 
women there. 

She had to have her chocolate every morning, and endless 
attentions. She complained incessantly of her nerves, her chest, 
her various ailments. The sound of footsteps was painful to her; 
if he went away, solitude became intolerable to her; if he came 
back, it was undoubtedly to watch her die. In the evening when 
Charles came home she would thrust her long thin arms out from 
under the sheets, wind them around his neck and, having made him 
sit down on the edge of the bed, begin to tell him her troubles: 
he was neglecting her, he loved someone elsel She had been told 
very plainly that she would be unhappy; and she would end by 
asking him for a tonic and a little more love. 


11 



night at eleven o clock they 
were aroused by the sound of a horse stopping 
just in front of the door. The maid opened the atoc 
window and had a lengthy discussion with a man who stood 
below in the street. He had come in search of the doctor; he had 
a letter. Nastasie went shivering down the stairs and of^^ed e 
lock and the bolts, one by one. The man left his horse and, foUo^g 
the maid, entered the room abruptly just behind her. He took froin 
inside his gray-tufted woolen cap a letter wrapped m a scrap o 

cloth and handed it deUcately to Charles, who propp^ j ^ 
on his elbow to read it. Nastasie, standing near the bed, held toe 
lamp. Madame, out of modesty, remained with her face to the 

wall and presented her back. 

This letter, sealed with a bit of blue wax, begged Monsieur 
Bovary to come at once to the Les Bertaux farm to set a br^en 
leg. It is eighteen miles across country from Tostes to Les Ber¬ 
taux, by way of Longueville and Saint-Victor. The night was black. 
Madame Bovary feared some accident to her husband. So was 
decided that the groom would go on ahead. Charles would set 
out three hours later, at moonrise. A boy would be sent to meet 
him, to show him the way to the farm and open the gates before 

Vi *Tn 

At four o’clock in the morning Charles, weU muffled in his 
coat, started for Les Bertaux. Still drowsy with the warmth of 
sleep, he let himself be lulled by his mount’s placid trot. When it 
stopped of its own accord at one of those holes surrounded by 
thorn bushes which are dug at the sides of trails, Charles, waking 
with a start, would speedily recall the broken leg and try to recol¬ 
lect all that he knew about fractures. The rain was no longer falling: 

12 



day was beginning to break and, on the branches of leafless apple 
trees, birds perched motionless, ruffling their little feathers against 
the cold morning wind. The flat countryside stretched out as far 
as the eye could reach, and, at rare intervals, clumps of trees about 
farmhouses made dark purple stains on that vast gray surface which 
blended at the horizon into the bleak tones of the sky. Charles opened 
his eyes from time to time; then, his spirit wearying and sleep 
returning of itself, he soon lapsed into a sort of half-consciousness 
in which, his recent sensations intermingling with memory, he saw 
himself double, at once a student and a married man, lying in his 
bed as he had been doing shortly before and crossing an operating 
room as in the past. The warm odor of poultices blended in his 
mind with the fresh scent of dew; he heard the iron bed-curtain 
rings slide on their rods and the sound of his wife sleeping . . . 
As he was passing through Vassonville he caught sight of a young 
boy sitting on the grass at the edge of a ditch. 

“Are you the doctor?’* the child asked. And, at Charles’ reply, he 
took his wooden shoes in his hands and began to run ahead of him. 

The physician, riding along, came to the conclusion from his 
guide’s chatter that Monsieur Rouault must be a farmer in very 
easy circumstances. He had broken his leg the previous evening, 
returning from a Twelfth-night celebration at a neighbor’s. His wife 
had died two years before. He had only his daughter with him to 
help him keep house. 

The ruts were becoming deeper. They were nearing Les Bertaux. 
The youngster, slipping through a gap in the hedge, disappeared, 
then reappeared at the end of a barnyard to open the gate. The 
horse slipped on the wet grass; Charles lowered his head to pass 
beneath the branches. The watchdogs in the kennel barked and 
pulled at their chains. As he entered Les Bertaux his horse took 
fright and shied violently. 

It was a well-kept farm. In the stables, through open doors, one 
could see sturdy work horses eating placidly from new mangers. 
Along the side of the buildings stretched a large dung-heap with 
steam rising from it, and upon it, among the hens and turkeys, five 
or six peacocks, a luxury in the farmyards of Caux, were foraging. 
The sheepfold was long, the bam high, with walls smooth as the 
palm of a hand. Under the shed were two great wagons and four 

13 



plows, with their whips, their collars, their whole harness, its blu 
wool linings filmed over with the fine dust that sifted down from the 
grain lofts. The yard sloped up, planted with symmehicaUy placed 
trees, and the cheerful cackling of a flock of geese echoed up from 

the side of the pond. 

A young woman in a blue merino dress ornamented with tluree 
flounces came to the threshold of the house to receive Monsieur 
Bovary, whom she ushered into the kitchen where a great fire was 
roaring. The farmhands’ breakfast was bubbling over it smaU 
pots of various sizes. Some damp clothes were drj^g mside the 
hearth. The poker, the tongs and the nose of the bellows, aU o 
immense proportions, shone as if made of polished steel, wMe 
along the walls hung a plentiful array of cooking utensils m which 
were unevenly reflected the bright flame from the hearth and the 

first rays of the sun coming in at the window. 

Charles went up to the first floor to see the patient. He found him 
in bed, sweating under his covers and having thrown off his m^t- 
cap. He was a small stout man of fifty, with white skin and b^e 
eyes, bald on the top of his head and wearing earrings. At Ws side, 
on a chair, he had a large decanter of brandy, from which he 
poured from time to time to hearten his stomach; but the 
he saw the doctor his spirits fell and, instead of ciusing as he had 
been doing for the past twelve hours, he began to moan feebly. 

It was a simple fracture without any sort of complication. Charles 
could not have dared hope for anything easier. Then, recalling ms 
teachers manners at the bedside of the injured, he comforted toe 
patient with all sorts of soothing words, surgical caresses which 
are like the oil used for lubricating scalpels. For splints, a servant 
went and brought a bundle of laths from under the carriage house. 
Charles chose one, cut it into pieces and smoothed it with a frag¬ 
ment of broken glass, while the servant tore a sheet into binding 
strips and Mademoiselle Emma tried to sew pads. As it took her a 
great while to find her sewing basket, her father lost patience; she 
made no answer; but, while sewing, she pricked her fingers and 

raised them to her mouth to suck them. 

Charles was surprised by the whiteness of her fingernails. They 
were shiny, thin at the tips, more carefully cleaned than the Dieppe 
ivories, and almond-shaped. Her hand, however, was not beautiful, 

14 



not white enough, perhaps, and somewhat rough at the knuckles; 
it was also too long, and lacking in the soft variations of line in its 
contours. The thing about her that was beautiful was her eyes; 
although they were blue, they looked black because of their 
lashes, and her glance met yours frankly with a candid assurance. 

The treatment accomplished, the doctor was invited by Monsieur 
Rouault himself to “have a bite” before leaving. 

Charles went down to the ground-floor room. Two places, with 
silver cups, had been laid on a small table at the foot^of a great 
tester bed hung vinth printed material representing Turkish scenes. 
One caught the scent of orris root and damp sheets tliat drifted 
from the tall oak wardrobe facing the window. On the floor, in the 
comers, up-ended sacks of wheat were lined. This was the overflow 
from the near-by storeroom which was reached by three stone steps. 
As decoration for the room there hung on a nail, in the center of a 
wall from which the green paint was flaking away beneath the 
saltpeter, a head of Minerva in black pencil, framed in gilt and 
having below it, inscribed in Gothic letters: “For my dear Papa.” 

They spoke first of the patient, then of the weather, the extreme 
cold, the wolves that prowled the fields at night. Mademoiselle 
Rouault found life in the cotmtry any thin g but entertaining, par¬ 
ticularly now that she had almost the entire responsibility of man¬ 
aging the farm. As the room was cool, she shivered as she ate, 
which revealed her full lips that she was in the habit of nibbhng 
in moments of silence. 


Her throat rose out of a low white collar. Her hair, in two black 
bands, each of which looked like a single piece, they were so 
smooth, was parted in the middle in a fine line which deepened 
slightly, following the curve of the skull; and, barely revealing the 
tips of the ears, was drawn back into a loose knot at the back, 
with a wavy effect at the temples which the country doctor saw 
for the first time in his life. Her cheeks were pink. She wore a shell- 
rimmed .eyeglass, in a man's fashion, inserted between two buttons 
on her bodice. 


When Charles, after having gone back upstairs to say good-by to 
Monsieur Rouault, returned to the downstairs room before leaving, 
he found her standing with her forehead ag ains t the windowpane. 




staring into the garden where the bean-poles had been blown down 

by the wind. She turned. 

“Are you looking for something?” she asked. 

“My riding crop, please,” he answered. , , , j 

And he began to hunt about, on the bed, behind the dwrs, under 

chairs; it had fallen down between the grain sacks and the waU 
Mademoiselle Emma saw it; she leaned over the sacks 
Charles, out of gallantry, hastened to her and, as he too stretched 
out his arm in the same gesture, he felt his chest brush aga 
the girl’s back, curved beneath him. She straightened, deeply 
flush^, and glanced at him over her shoulder, handmg him his 


Instead of returning to Bertaux three days later, as he had 
promised, he went back the very next day, then reg^arly tw^ 
a week, not counting the unexpected visits he paid from time to 

time as if fortuitously. , 

For the rest, aU went well; healing progressed normally, and 

when, at the end of forty-six days, old Rouault was seen trymg to 
walk alone. Monsieur Bovary began to be considered a 
great ability. Old Rouault said that he could not have been better 
treated by the foremost doctors of Yvetot or even of Rouen. 

As for Charles, he made no effort to ask himself why he took 
such pleasure in going to Les Bertaux. Had he bought about it, 
he would no doubt have attributed his zeal to the gravity of the 
case, or perhaps to the profit he hoped to make irom it. Still, was 
it for this that his visits to the farm made a delightful excepbon 
among the poor activities of his life? On those days he arose e^ly, 
set off at the gallop, spurred his mount along, then dismounted to 
wipe his feet on the grass and pull on his black 
entering the house. He loved arriving at the farmyard, feeling the 
barred gate turn against his shoulder, vidth the rooster crowmg on 
the waD. the boys coming to meet him. He loved the barn and 
the stables; he loved old Rouault, who clasped him by &amp;e hand, 
calling him his savior; he loved Mademoiselle Emma's small wo^en 
shoes on the scrubbed flagstones of the kitchen; their heels 

made her a little taller and, when she walked in front of him, the 
wooden soles, briskly raised, slapped with a sharp sound agamst 

the leather sole of her slippers. 

16 



She always accompanied him to the doorstep. When his horse 
had not yet been brought up, she waited there. They had said 
good-by, they said nothing further; the fresh breeze played about 
her, lifting random curls of soft hair at the back of her neck, 
or teasing the apron strings that flapped like pennants behind 
her. Once, during the spring thaws, the trees were dripping in 
the yard, the snow was melting on the roofs of the buildings. She 
was standing on the doorsill; she went to fetch her umbrella, she 
opened it. The umbrella, of iridescent silk, with the sun shining 
through it, cast mobile reflections over the white sldn of her face. 
Beneath it, she smiled at the mild warmth; and drops of water 
could be heard falling one by one on the stretched silk. 

In the early days of Charles* visits to Les Bertaux, young Madame 
Bovary did not fail to investigate the patient, and she had even set 
aside a fine clean page for Monsieur Rouault in the double-entry 
account book she kept. But when she learned that he had a daugh¬ 
ter she investigated further; and she was informed that Mademoi¬ 
selle Rouault, brought up in the Ursuline convent, had received a 
fine education, as they say, and in consequence knew dancing, 
geography, drawing, embroidery and piano. This was the last strawl 

“So that*s the reason,” she said to herself, “for his having so 
cheerful an expression when he goes to see her, and for his putting 
on his new waistcoat at the risk of ruining it in the rain? Oh, that 
woman, that womani ...” 

And she detested her, instinctively. At first she relieved her 
feelings by making allusions. Charles did not imderstand them; 
then she took to making direct references which he let pass for 
fear of a storm; at length came point-blank tirades to which he 
did not know what to answer. How was it that he kept returning 
to Les Bertaux, since Monsieur Rouault was healed and those people 
had not yet paid? Ah, it was because there was a person there, 
a somebody who knew how to make conversation, an artist with the 
needle, a fine mind. That was what he liked: he had to have town- 
bred girlsl And she went on: 

“Old man Rouault's daughter, a town-bred girl! Go along with 
youl Their grandfather was a shepherd, and they have a cousin 
who almost had to go to trial for a wicked blow he struck during an 
argument She needn't put on all those airs, nor show up in chinch 

17 



on Sunday in a silk dress, like a countess. Besides, the pwr old 
fellow, if it hadn’t been for last year’s colza-seed crop, he d have 

been hard put to it to pay up his back taxes.” 

Out of lassitude, Charles ceased returning to Les Bertaux. 
Heloise had made him swear, with his hand on the Missal, that he 
would not go there again, after many sobs and tears and kisses, in 
a great explosion of love. So he obeyed; but the potency of hw 
desire protested against the servility of his behavior and, through 
a sort of ingenuous hypocrisy, he came to the conclusion that being 
forbidden to see her gave him, in a way, the right to love her. 
Besides, the widow was thin, she had long teeth; at all seasons 
she wore a smaU black shawl whose point came down between her 
shoulder blades; her bony figure was encased in gowns made like 
sheaths, too short, so that they exposed her ankles with the ties of 
her ample shoes crossed over gray stockings. 

Charles’ mother came occasionally to visit them, but after me 
first few days the daughter-in-law seemed to rouse her to irritation 
against her son; and then, like a pair of knives, they devoted them¬ 
selves to slashing him with their criticisms and observations. It was 
wrong of him to eat so much. Why always ofier a drop to drink 
to everyone who came along? What stubbornness, refusing to wear 

flannell 

It happened that early in the spring an attorney of IngouviUe, 
responsible for the widow Dubuc’s investments, set sail one fine 
high tide, taking with him all the money in his keeping. H61oise, 
it is true, still possessed her house in ^e Rue Saint-Fran^ois in 
addition to her share in a ship valued at six thousand francs; and 
yet, of all that fortune which had been so loudly vaunted, nothing, 
wii the exception of a little frumiture and a few clothes, had found 
its way into the household. The matter had to be investigated. 
The house in Dieppe was found to be riddled with mortgages 
down to its foundations; God alone knew how much she had 
invested with the notary, and her share in the ship amoimted to no 
more than a thoiisand 6cus. So she had lied, the virtuous creaturel 
In his exasperation, Monsieur Bovary senior smashed a chair on the 
stone floor, accused his vrife of having contrived their son’s misery 
by yoking him with a jade like that, whose hide wasn’t worth the 
harness. They went to Tostes. There were explanations. There were 

18 



scenes. Heloise, in tears, flinging herself into her husbands arms, 
implored him to defend her against his parents, Charles tried to 
speak up for her. The parents became angry and departed. 

But the blow had fallen. A week later, as she was hanging out 
linens in the yard, she was taken with a coughing spell and spat 
blood, and the following day, while Charles had his back turned, 
closing the window blind, she said, “Oh, my Godl” sighed and lost 
consciousness. She was deadi It was a frightful shock. 

When all was over at the cemetery, Charles returned home. He 
found no one downstairs; he went up to the first floor, into the 
bedroom, saw her dress still hanging on the wall at the foot of the 
alcove; then, leaning against the secretary, he remained until eve¬ 
ning, lost in a sorrowful ’■everie. After all, she had loved him. 




« 




(^NE morning Rouault came to 
bring Charles the payment for setting his leg: 
sixty-five francs in forty-sou pieces, and a hen turkey. 

He had heard of his sorroAv, and offered what consolation he could. 

“I know how it is,” he said, patting Charles on the shoulder. 1 
was like you. too. When I lost my poor late wife, I went mto toe 
fields to be alone; I dropped down at the foot of a tree, I c^ed, 
called out to God, I talked nonsense to him; I wanted to be like one 
of those swellings I saw on the branches, vnth worms crawling 
about inside them: dead. And when I thought that other men, at 
that moment, were with their good little wives, holding them close 
in their arms, I beat on the ground with my stick; I was so nearly 
mad that I didn't eat any more; the bare idea of going to the c^e 
disgusted me. you wouldn't believe it. Well, graduaUy, one day 
following another, a spring after a vrniter and an autumn on top of 
a summer, bit by bit. crumb by crumb, that passed; for it's gone, it 
has left me, it has sunk down, I should say—for something stol 
stays with you, deep dovm, like what you might call ... a weight, 
here, on the chest. But since we all come to that in the end, we 
shouldn't despair and wish to die because others are dead . . . You 
must shake it off. Monsieur Bovary; it vidll pass! Come to see us; 
my daughter thinks of you every now and then, you know, and she 
says in so many words that you're forgetting her. Spring will soon 
be here; we’ll have one of the rabbits in the warren shot to distract 

you a little.” 

Charles followed his advice. He returned to Les Bertaux. He 
found everything as it had been the previous day, that is to say 
five months before. The pear trees were already in blossom, and old 
Rouault, on his feet now. came and went, which added animation 

to the farm. 


20 



Believing that it was his duty to lavish every possible courtesy 
upon the doctor, because of his grief-stricken condition, he begged 
him not to take off his hat, spoke to him in a low voice as if he were 
ill, and even pretended to fly into a rage because special hght 
dishes such as chocolate pudding or stewed pears had not been 
prepared for him. He told stories. Charles caught himself laughing; 
but the memory of his wife, suddenly returning, sobered him. Coffee 
was brought in; he thought of her no longer. 

He thought of her less and less, in proportion as he became 
accustomed to hving alone. The novel pleasure of independence 
speedily made sohtude more endurable. Now he could change his 
meal times, come in or go out without giving reasons and, when 
he was thoroughly weary, stretch all four of his limbs out over his 
whole bed. So he pampered himself, indulged himself and accepted 
the consolations offered him. On the other hand, his wife's death 
had done him no harm professionally, for people had been repeating 
for a month: “The poor young man! What a tragedy!” His name 
had circulated, his practice had grovra; and, in addition, he could 
go to Les Bertaux with a clear conscience. He was possessed of an 
aimless optimism, a vague well-being; brushing his sideburns before 
the mirror, he found his face more attractive. 

One day he arrived at three o'clock; everyone was out in the 
fields; he entered the kitchen but at first did not see Emma; the 
shutters were closed. Through the wooden slats, the sunhght fell 
upon the stone floor in long thin stripes which broke upon the comers 
of furniture and went glancing up to the ceiling. On the table, 
flies crawled up the sides of glasses which had been used, and 
hummed as they drowned themselves in the cider left at the bot¬ 
tom. Daylight, coming down the chimney, turning the soot on the 
hearth-floor to velvet, gave a blue tone to the cold ashes. Between 
the window and the hearth, Emma was sewing; she was not wearing 
anything at her neck, small drops of perspiration stood on her 
bare shoulders. 

As in the country custom, she invited him to drink something. 
He declined, she insisted, and at length offered, laughing, to take a 
glass of liqueur with him. She went then to fetch a bottle of cura 9 ao 
from the cupboard, took out two small glasses, filled one to the rim, 
poured almost nothing into the other and, having touched it to his, 

21 



raised it to her lips. As it was almost empty, she leaned back to 
drink; and, her head thrown back, her bps parted, her tooat 
elongated, she laughed at being unable to taste 

tip of her tongue, thrust out between her dehcate teeth, hcked tmy 

drops from the bottom of the glass. . i • „ 

sL sat down again and took up her work a cotton ^‘^hing that 

she was darning: she worked with her head 

speak. Neither did Charles. The breeze, commg m under the door, 
pushed at a dust-curl on the flagstones; he watched't creep along, 
Ld heard only the inner throbbing of his head and the distant 
cackle of a hen laying eggs in the barnyard. From time to toe 
Emma cooled her cheeks by laying the palms of her hands against 
them, and afterwards cooled her palms on the won knobs of the 


great andirons. , , . . r 

She complained of being troubled, since the beginnmg of the 

season, by dizzy speUs; she asked whether sea-ba*ing would be 

beneficial; she began to talk about the convent. Charles about his 

school, their tongues loosened. They went up to her rwin. bhe 

showed him her old music books, the little volumes that had been 

given to her as prizes and the oak-leaf wreaths abandoned m the 

bottom drawer of a chest. She spoke of her mother, too, of the 

cemetery, and even showed him the border in the garden from 

which she cut flowers, on the first Friday of every month, to put on 

her grave. But the gardener they had was very inefficient; they were 

so poorly served! She would really have liked to live in town, even 

if it were just during the winter, although the length of the summer 

days perhaps made the country still more boring at that season— 

and, according to what she was saying, her voice was cle^, bitter 

or. suddenly lapsing into listlessness, trailing off in modulations that 

sank almost to a mumur, as if she were speaking to herself—now 

joyous, opening innocent eyes, now with eyelids half closed, her 

glance drowning in boredom, her thoughts wandering. 

That evening, returning home, Charles recalled one by one the 
phrases she had used, trying to remember, to complete the meaning 
of them, so that he might make himself a picture of that portion 
of life which she had led in the times when he had not yet known 
her. But he could never imagine her other than as he had seen her 
for the first time or as he had just left her. Then he began to 




wonder what would become of her, whether she would marry, and 
whom. Alas, old Rouault was very rich, and she ... so lovelyl 
But Emmas face kept returning to linger before his eyes, and a 
monotonous rhythm like the humming of a top kept droning in his 
ears: Still, if you were to marry! If you were to marry!” That night 
he did not sleep, his throat was tight, he was thirsty; he arose to 
go and drink from his carafe and he opened the window; the sky 
was covered with stars, a hot wind was blowing; in the distance 
dogs howled. He turned his head toward Les Bertaux. 

Thinking that after all he had nothing to lose, Charles resolved 
to ask when an opportunity offered; but each time it offered, fear 
of not finding suitable words glued his lips together. 

Old Rouault would not have been sorry to have someone relieve 
him of his daughter who was of practically no use to him in his 
house. Inwardly he made excuses for her, assuring himself that she 
had too much spirit for fanning, an occupation cursed by heaven, 
since one never saw a farmer become a millionaire. Far from having 
naade a fortime at it, the old fellow took a further loss every year: 
for while he excelled in the markets, where he took pleasure in all 
the tricks of the trade, farming itself, on the other hand, and the 
management of the farm proper, suited him less than anyone. He 
never willingly put his hand into his pocket, and yet spared no 
expense for anythmg to do with his manner of living, insisting upon 
being well fed, well warmed, well bedded. He loved strong cider, 
underdone roasts, coffee with brandy well whipped into it. He took 
his meals in the kitchen, alone, facing the fire, at a small table which 
was brought in all set, as at the theater. 

When he noticed that Charles showed a tendency to grow red 
in his daughter s presence, which indicated that one of these days 
he would ask for her hand, he ruminated over the whole matter 
in advance. He considered him somewhat puny, to be sure, and that 
was not the sort of son-in-law he would have wished for; but he 
was said to be well behaved, economical, very learned, and he 
would undoubtedly not haggle too much over the dowry. There¬ 
fore, since old Rouault was about to be forced to sell twenty-two 
acres of his property, as he owed a good deal to the mason, a good 
deal to the harness maker, as the shaft of the winepress needed 

repairing: 


23 



“If he asks me for her,” he thought, m g‘ve her to 
At Michaelmas, Charles came to spend three days at Les Bei^^ 
The last day had slipped past like the ones before, dwmdlmg 

quarter hour by quarter hour. Old Rouault went with 1^ wTrt 
of the property; they were walking along a sunken road, *ey were 
about to par^this was the moment. Charles gave hii^eU until the 

end of the hedgerow and at last, when they had p^sed it. 

“Monsieur Rouault,” he murmured, “I’d like to teU you somethmg. 

Thev stooned. Charles was silent. 

“WeU, teU your storyl Don’t I know all about itl” Monsieur Rouault 
said, laughing gently. „ rharles stam- 

““At'far as I’m concerned, I’d like nothing better,” the f^er 
continued. “Although I’m sure the girl agrees wi* me, still lU 
have to ask her how she feels about it. Go alonp I m J 

to the house. If it’s yes-listen, now-you needn t come back, be¬ 
cause there will be people there, and besides it would too ex^- 
ing for her. But so that you won t eat your heart out, ^ “ 

window shutter wide open: you can see it back there if you lean 

over the hedge.” 

And he walked away. 

Charles tethered his horse to a tree. He hastened to ^e up a 
position on the foothpath; he waited. A half hour passed, then he 
counted nineteen minutes by his watch. Suddenly there was the 
sound of something striking the wall; the shutter had been flung 

back, the latch was still swinging. , r- ui 

The next day at nine o’clock he was at the farm. Emma blushed 

when he came in, while forcing herself to laugh a Uttle, to ke^m 

countenance. Old Rouault embraced his future son-m-law. ’They 

began to talk over the financial arrangements; there was plenty ot 

time, however, since the marriage could not decently t^e place 

before the end of Charles’ year of mourning, or early the foUowmg 

*^^e winter passed in anticipation. Mademoiselle Rouault at¬ 
tended to her trousseau. Part of it was ordered from Rouen, and 
she designed shifts and nightcaps for herself from pattern that she 
borrowed. During the visits Charles paid to the farm, they talked 

24 



over preparations for the wedding, they dehberated over which 
room the dinner should be given in; they pondered the number of 
plates that would be needed, and what dishes should be served. 

Emma, for her part, would have liked to be married at midnight, 
by torchlight; but old Rouault would have nothing to do with 
this idea. So there was a wedding dinner to which forty-three per¬ 
sons came, at which they remained sixteen hours at table, which 
began again the following day and lingered on over the next few 
days. 





e&gt;^HE guests arrived early in car¬ 
riages, one-horse carts, two-wheeled wagon¬ 
ettes, ancient gigs without tops, leather-curtained vans, 
and the young folk from the nearest villages in wagons in which 
they stood upright in line, their hands clinging to the sides to keep 
from falling, going at a stiff trot and badly shaken about. Some 
came from ten leagues away, from Goderville, from Normanville 
and from Cany. All the relatives on both sides had been invited; 
estranged friends had been reconciled; acquaintances long lost to 
sight had been informed. 

From time to time the crack of a whip was heard beyond the 
hedge; then the barred gate would be opened: it was a cart arriv¬ 
ing. Galloping to the doorstep, it would pull up short and discharge 
its occupants, who sprang out on all sides, rubbing their knees 
and stretching their arms. The ladies, wearing bonnets, had on 
dresses styled after the city fashions, gold watch chains, tippets 
with the ends crossed and tucked in at the belt, or little colored 
fichus attached in back with a pin, which revealed the backs of 
their necks. The boys, dressed in imitation of their fathers, seemed 
uncomfortable in their new suits (many of them even had on the 
first pair of boots in their lives); one saw beside them, not uttering 
a word, in the white dress from her first Communion, lengthened 
for the occasion, some great girl of fourteen or sixteen, their cousin 
or older sister no doubt, flushed, bewildered, her hair sleek with rose- 
scented pomade, and in awful dread of soiling her gloves. 

As there were nowhere near enough grooms to unhitch all the 
carriages, the gentlemen turned back their cuffs and set about it 
themselves. According to their various social positions, they wore 
suits, frock coats, dress coats, jackets; good suits, surrounded by 
all the respect of a family, which issued from the wardrobes only 

26 



on state occasions; frock coats with great skirts floating in the 
breeze, with cylindrical neck-bands and pockets as roomy as sacks; 
jackets of coarse cloth which ordinarily were worn with some sort 
of round cap, its visor stiflFened with wire; short jackets with two 
buttons close together in back, like a pair of eyes, and tails that 
looked as if they had been cut out of a single block of wood, by a 
carpenter's ax. Some (but those, you may be sure, were to be seated 
at the extreme lower end of the table) even wore ceremonial 
blouses; that is: with the collar turned back over the shoulders, the 
back gathered in small pleats and the waist caught in very low by 
a stitched belt. 

And the shirts bulged like breast-plates on their chests. Every¬ 
one had a new haircut, the ears started from their heads, all were 
closely shaved; some, even, who had arisen before dawn, not hav¬ 
ing been able to see clearly to shave, had diagonal gashes under 
their noses or, along their jaws, spots as large as three-franc pieces 
where the skin had been scraped away and which the brisk air 
along the way had inflamed so that all those great white beaming 
faces were somewhat motUed with red patches. 

The town hall being no more than a mile from the farm, the 
party went there on foot and returned in the same manner after 
the ceremony had been performed at the church. The procession, 
compact at first like a single streamer of color winding through the 
countryside along the narrow path between green wheat fields, 
presently lengthened out and broke up into different groups which 
lingered, talking. The village fiddler walked at the head, his vio¬ 
lin adorned with a cascade of ribbons; next came the bride and 
groom, the relatives, the friends all jumbled together, and the chil¬ 
dren brought up the rear, amusing themselves by snatching the 
beards from stalks of oats, or by playing among themselves un¬ 
noticed. Emma's gown, being too long, dragged a little in back; 
from time to time she paused to lift it up, and then delicately, wdth 
her gloved fingers, she picked off the rough grass and little thistle 
burs, while Charles, empty-handed, waited for her to finish. Old 
Rouault, a new silk hat on his head and the cuffs of his black coat 
covering his hands down to the fingernails, had Madame Bovary 
senior on his arm. As for Monsieur Bovary who, inwardly despising 
all these people, had come simply dressed in a frock coat with a 

27 



row of miUtary-style buttons, he was doUng out 8^“*' 

ries to a young fair-haired peasant girl. She nodded, blushed, did 
not know what to answer. The other wedding guests chatted about 
their own affairs or played tricks on one another, stimulating toem- 
selves to gaiety in advance; and, listening closely, one could sM 
hear the whining of the fiddle which continued to play out into the 
country. When the fiddler noticed that everyone was far behind 
him, he paused for breath, rubbed his bow with rosm for some 
time so that the strings would squeal more loudly, and then began 
to walk again, lowering and raising the neck of his violin by turns, 

to mark the rhythm for himself. , ^ . r 

The table was set up under the wagon shed. On it were four 

rib roasts of beef, six chicken stews, veal in casserole, toe legs of 
Iamb and, in the middle, a fine roast sucking pig flanked by four 
spiced sausages. At the comers stood brandy, in decanters. Sweet 
cider in bottles pushed its thick froth up around the corks and all 
the glasses had been filled to the brim with wine in advance. Great 
plates of yellow cream, which quivered with a motion of their 
own at the slightest jar to the table, had messages to the newlyweds 
designed in nonpareil drawn on their smooth surfaces. A pastry 
cook had been sent for from Yvetot for the tarts and almond-cak^. 
As he was new in the country, he had taken great pains; and he 
himself brought in. at dessert, a masterpiece of construction which 
called forth cries of admiration. At the base, there was first a square 
of blue cardboard representing a temple with porticoes, colon¬ 
nades and plaster statuettes placed aU around in niches sprinkled 
with gold paper stars; then came the second layer, a dmgeon made 
of cake, surrounded by tiny fortifications of angehca, almond^ 
raisins, orange sections; and at last, on the highest layer, wmdi 
represented a green meadow with rocks and lakes made of jelly, 
and nut-shell boats, one saw a small Cupid, swinging in a chocolate 
swing, the two supports of which were topped off with two real 

rosebuds to represent balls. 

They ate until evening. When anyone was tired of sitting down, 
he rose to stroU about the yard or play a game of quoits in the 
bam, then he returned to the table. Some, toward the end, fell 
asleep and snored. But over coffee everyone came to life again; 
then they embarked upon songs, they executed feats of strength, 

28 



they lifted weights, they played games, they tried to lift the wagons 
on their shoulders, they told broad jokes, they embraced the ladies. 
That evening, when it was time to go, the horses, crammed to the 
nostrils with oats, rebelled at being put between the shafts; they 
kicked, they reared, their harness broke, their masters swore or 
laughed; and all night long in the moonhght, along the country 
roads, there were runaway carriages dashing at full gallop, bounc¬ 
ing in the ruts, leaping over the graveled stretches, hanging off 
embankments, with women leaning out over the Nvindow ledges to 
match at the reins. 

Those who stayed at Les Bertaux spent the night drinking in 
the kitchen. The children had fallen asleep on the benches. 

The bride had begged her father to see to it that she was spared 
the customary practical jokes. Nevertheless, one of their cousins, a 
fishmonger (who had even brought a pair of soles as a wedding 
present), was about to squirt water with his mouth through the 
keyhole when old Rouault arrived just in time to prevent him, and 
explained to him that his son-in-law’s important position did not 
permit taking such liberties. The cousin, however, yielded only 
with difiSculty to these arguments. Inwardly he accused old Rouault 
of being haughty, and he went to a comer to join four or five other 
guests who, having been served by accident with the less desirable 
pieces of meat several times in a row at table, were also convinced 
that they had been ill-treated, whispered about their host and 
covertly exchanged wishes for his ruin. 

Madame Bovary senior had not opened her mouth all day. She 
had not been consulted about the bride’s costume nor about the 
dinner arrangements; she retired early. Her husband, rather than 
following her, sent to Saint-Victor for cigars and smoked until day¬ 
break, drinking kirsch punch, a mixture xmfamiliar to the rest of 
the company, which was a source of even greater respect for him. 

Charles was not of a facetious nature; he had not shone during 
the reception. He responded ineptly to jokes, puns, double mean¬ 
ings, compliments and broad remarks which people had felt it their 
duty to address to him from the soup course on. 

The next day, on the other hand, he seemed another man. It 
was he whom one would have taken for the virgin of the day 
before, while the bride let nothing be seen from which any con- 

29 



elusions might be drawn. The most waggish of the guests could 
only comply, and they considered her, when she passed them, with 
immense concentration. But Charles made no pretense whatsoever 
He called her “my wife,” spoke to her with endearments, asked 
everyone for his opinion of her. wanted to be with her evety 
moment and frequently drew her away into the yard where he 
could be seen at a distance, among the trees, slipping his arm 
around her waist and continuing to walk half bent over her. brush¬ 
ing the sheer top of her bodice with his cheek. .-,,1 

Two days after the wedding the bride and groom left: Cha^s, 
because of his patients, was unable to stay away longer. Old 
Rouault sent them back in his own carriage, and accompamed 
them himself as far as Vassonville. There he embraced his daughter 

one last time, got down and returned on foot. ^ 

Monsieur and Madame Charles arrived in Tostes at six o clock. 
Neighbors posted themselves in windows to see their doctor s new 

The elderly maid came forward, greeted them, apologized be¬ 
cause dinner was not ready and urged Madame, while waiting, to 
make the acquaintance of her home. 


30 



e--/ HE brick front was precisely on 
the line of the street, or rather of the road. 

Behind the door were hung a cape with a small round 
collar, a bridle, a black leather cap and, on the floor in a comer, a 
pair of leggings still covered with dried mud. At the right was the 
combination dining and sitting room. A canary-yellow paper, set 
off by a garland of pale flowers at the upper border, rippled all 
over on its carelessly hung backing; white calico curtains edged in 
red galoon were crossed at the windows, and on the narrow mantel¬ 
piece above the hearth a clock in the shape of Hippocrates* head 
stood in all its splendor between two silverplate candlesticks under 
oval-shaped globes. 

On the other side of the hall was Charles* consulting room, a 
small room about six feet wide, with a table, three chairs and an 
oflBce armchair. Volumes of the Dictionnaire des Sciences Medi¬ 
cates, uncut, but with their bindings worn by all the successive 
sales through which they had passed, had the six shelves of a pine 
bookcase almost to themselves. During consultations, the odors of 
cooking penetrated through the wall, just as in the kitchen one 
could hear the patients coughing and retailing their whole case 
histories in the office. Next, opening directly into the back yard 
where the stable was, came a vast shabby room with a stove in it, 
which was now serving as woodshed, cellar, storeroom, crowded 
with ancient pieces of scrap iron, empty casks, disused farming 
implements, with a quantity of other dusty objects whose purpose 
it would have been impossible to guess. 

The garden, longer than it was wide, ran between two masonry 
walls masked by espaliered apricots down to a thorn hedge which 
divided it from the fields. In the center there was a sundial made 
of slates, on a masonry pedestal; four borders planted with scrawny 

31 



sweetbriars symmetricaUy inclosed the more useM square of *e 
kitchen gardeT At the far end, under the small flr trees, a plaster 

‘'“?m'ma‘^s^nt'’rpTo"dre bedrooms. The first was unfur^hed; but 
the second, which was the master bedroom, had a ™ah°gany bed 
in a red-curtained alcove. A shell-studded box decorated the chest 
of drawers; and, on the secretary near the window there was a 
bouquet of orange blossoms tied in white satin nbbons, stan^g 
in a pitcher. It was a bridal bouquet, the other wife s bouquetl She 
looked at it. Charles noticed it, he picked it up and took it tojhe 
attic while, seated in an armchair, Emma thought of her own bn 
Cuquet, which was put away in a cardboard box, and wondered 
dre^ily what would be done with it if perchance she happened 


’^e first days she amused herself with planning changes m her 
house. She removed the globes from the candlesticks, had new wa^- 
paper hung, the staircase repainted and garden s^ts built aU 
around the sundial; and even asked how to go about havmg a pool 
put in, with a fountain and goldfish. Presently her husband, know¬ 
ing that she liked to go for drives, found a secondhand c^age 
which, having been equipped with new lanterns and quilted leather 

mudguards, looked almost like a dogcart, ,, . , i 

. So he was happy and had not a care in the world. A m^l ^one 
with her, an evening stroU along the highroad, a touch of his h^d 
j on her hair, the sight of her straw hat hung on a window f^tening 
and many other things that Charles had never su^ected to be 
* sources of pleasure, now composed the continuity of his happmess. 
In bed in the morning, side by side on the pillow, he ^tched the 
sunlight shine on the golden down of her cheeks, half covered by 
the scalloped border of her cap. Seen so close, her eyes seemed 
larger to him, particularly when she blinked her eyelids, wa^g; 
black in shadow and dark blue in full light, they seemed to have 
successive layers which, heavier in the depths, became lifter as 
they rose to the surface of the cornea. His own eye lost itselt in 
their depths, and he saw himself there, in miniature, down to his 
shoulders, with the silk handkerchief covering his head and the top 
of his nightshirt open. He would get up. She would come to me 
window to see him go; and she would remain there, leaning on her 

32 


V 



elbows on the sill, between two potted geraniums, in her dressing- 
gown which hung loose about her. Mounted, Charles would throw 
her a kiss; with the sun on his shoulders and the morning breeze in 
his nostrils, his heart full of the night’s felicities, his spirit serene, 
his flesh content, he rode along ruminating over his happiness. 

Up to the present, what had been good in his life? His school 
days, when he had been shut up between those high walls, solitary 
in the midst of classmates richer or better in class than himself, 
who laughed at his accent, who ridiculed his clothes and whose 
mothers came to visit them in the parlor with pastries in their 
muffs? Or later, when he had been studying medicine and had 
never had enough in his purse to pay for a dance with some little 
working girl who might have become his mistress? After that he 
had lived for fourteen months with the widow, whose feet, in bed, 
had been cold as icicles. But now he possessed for life that lovely I 
woman whom he adored. The universe, for him, was no more than 
the silky ripple of her petticoat; and he would reproach himself 
for not being vrith her, he would be filled with desire to see her 
again; he would hurry back, run up the stairs with a beating heart. 
Emma would be dressing, in her room; he would come on silent 
feet, he would Idss the back of her neck, she would cry out. 

He could not refrain from continually han dlin g her comb, her 
rings, her scarf; sometimes he gave her great hearty kisses on the 
cheek, or it might be a row of little kisses all up her bare arm from 
fingertip to shoulder; and she would push him away, indulgent and 
wearied, as one does with an importunate child. 

Before she had married, she had thought herself in love; but the I 
happiness which ought to have resulted from that love having 
failed to materialize, she thou^t that she must have been mistaken. 
And Emma wondered just what was meant, in real life, by the 
words felicity, passion and intoxication, which had seemed so beau* 
tiful to her in books. 


33 




and she had dreamed of the bamboo hut, the 
Negro Domingo, Fide\e the dog, but most of all of the 
gentle friendship of some good little brother who climbs trees 
higher than church towers to pick you red fruits, or rims barefoot 

over the sand, bringing you a bird’s nest. 

When she had been thirteen years old, her father himself had 
taken her to the city to put her into the convent. They had stopped 
at an inn in the Saint-Gervais quarter, where they were served 
supper on painted china plates representing the story of Made¬ 
moiselle de La ValUere. The explanatory legends, obUterated in 
spots by knife scratches, had glorified religion, spiritual delicacy 

and the pomp of the Court. 

Far from being bored at the convent in her early days there, she 
had taken pleasure in the society of the good sisters who, to amuse 
her, took her into a chapel which was reached throu^ a long cor¬ 
ridor leading from the refectory. She had played very little during 
recreation hours, had understood her catechism thorou^y, and 
had always been the one to answer the vicars difficult questions. 
Living thus, without ever emerging from the temperate atmosphere 
of the classroom, and among those pale-faced women wearing 
chaplets with brass crosses, she had drowsed gently in the mystical 
languor exhaled by the scents of the altar, the coolness of the fonts, 
the radiance of the tapers. Rather than following the ritual, she 
looked at the blue-bordered religious vignettes in her book, and she 
loved the sick ewe, the Sacred Heart pierced by sharp arrows or 
the poor Jesus stumbling as he walked with his Cross. In her mind 

she searched for some vow to fulfil. 

When she went to confession she invented little sins, in order to 
stay there longer, kneeling in the shadows, her hands clasped, her 

34 



face pressed to the grille, with the priest’s whisper flowing over 
her. The references to promised husband, bride, celestial lover and 
eternal marriage which keep recurring in sermons roused unex¬ 
pected harmonies deep in her soul. 

In the evening, before prayers, they studied some religious book. 
During the week it might be a summary of the Gospels or the Abbe 
Frayssinous’ Conferences, and, on Sunday, passages from the G^nie 
du Christianisme, by way of relaxation. How she had listened, the 
first few times, to the sonorous lamentation of romantic melancholy, 
reiterated to all the echoes of earth and of eternity! If her child¬ 
hood had been spent in the back-shop of some market quarter, she 
would then perhaps have been vulnerable to the lyrical invasion of 
nature which ordinarily comes to us only through writers’ inter¬ 
pretations. But she knew the country too well; she knew the bleat¬ 
ing of the flocks, fresh milk, plows. Accustomed to tranquil scenes, 
^she turned away to the more rugged. She loved the sea only for its 
[ttempests, and green meadows only when they were scattered with 
I ruins. It was necessary for her to draw a sort of personal gain from 
things; and she rejected as useless all that did not contribute to the 
immediate response of her heart—being of a sentimental rather 
than artistic temperament, in search of emotions, not landscapes. 

There was an elderly spinster who came every month to the con¬ 
vent to do sewing. Befriended by the archbishopric as belonging to 
an old family of gentlefolk ruined during the Revolution, she took 
her meals at the good sisters’ table in the refectory and, after meals, 
had a few minutes’ chat with them before returning to her work. 
Frequently the students shpped away from study hall to go and 
visit her. She knew by heart the love songs of the century before, 
and sang them softly as she plied her needle. She told stories, 
brought news, ran errands for them in the town and, secretly, lent 
the older girls one of the novels she always carried in her apron 
pockets, and which the good woman herself lapped up a chapter 
at a time in the intervals of her work. They concerned nothing but 
love, lovers, mistresses, persecuted ladies wasting away in solitary 
pavilions, posthorses killed at every relay, steeds slaughtered on 
every page, gloomy forests, troubled hearts, vows, sobs, tears and 
kisses, moonlight sails, nightingales in thickets, gentlemen brave 
as lions, gentle as lambs, virtuous as nobody always well dressed, 

- 35 



who wept like urns. For six months, at the age of fifteen, Emma 
soiled her hands with that dust from old circulating libraries. Later, 
with Walter Scott, she conceived a fondness for things historical, 
dreamed of chests, guardrooms and minstrels. She would have liked 
to live in some ancient manor house, like those long-waisted chate¬ 
laines who, beneath the trefoil of a pointed arch, spent their days, 
elbow on parapet and chin in band, watching a horseman ride up 
at the gallop from the background on a black horse, a white plume 
in his hat. At that time she had a passion for Mary Stuart, and 
enthusiastic veneration for all illustrious or unfortunate women. 
Joan of Arc, Heloise, Agnds Sorel, la belle Ferronni^re and C16- 
mence Isaure stood out, for her. like comets against the twilight 
immensity of history, in which still ghttered here and there, but 
more lost in shadow and with no relation to one another. Saint 
Louis with his oak, Bayard dying, certain of Louis XI s ferocities, a 
little of Saint Bartholomew, Beamais* plume, and always the mem¬ 
ory of the painted plates on which Loxiis XIV had been extolled. 

In music class, in the ballads she sang, the only subjects were 
gold-winged angels, madonnas, lagoons, gondoliers: pacific com¬ 
positions which gave her glimpses, across the vapidness of style 
and the ill-advised harmonies, of the alluring phantasmagoria of 
emotional realities. Certain of her classmates had brou^t to the 
convent keepsakes which they had received as tokens of affection. 
They had to be kept hidden, it was a serious matter; they read 
them in the dormitory. Delicately fingering their exquisite satin 
coverings, Emma would fix her fascinated eyes on the names of 
the authors, usually counts or viscounts, who had signed at the 
foot of their compositions. 

She would shiver, her breath raising the tissue paper over the en¬ 
gravings which rose half folded and fell back gently against the 
page. There was a young man in a short cape, standing below the 
railing of a balcony, clasping in his arms a yoimg girl in a white 
dress with an alms purse at her girdle; or it might be anonymous 
portraits of English ladies with golden curls, who looked out at 
one with great clear eyes under their round straw hats. Some of 
them were displayed in carriages, slipping through parks where a 
greyhound bounded ahead of a carriage driven by two small 
postilions in white breeches. Others, dreaming on sofas, with an 

36 



opened note at hand, gazed at the moon through a partly open win¬ 
dow half covered by a black drapery. Innocents v^ith tears on their 
cheeks fed turtledoves from their lips through the bars of Gothic 
cages, or, smiling with their heads on one side, pulled the petals 
from a daisy with their pointed fingers turned up at the tips like 
Turkish slippers. And you were there, too, you sultans with hookas, 
lolling in the arms of dancing girls under leafy bowers, you Turkish 
sabers, Grecian headdresses, and you, especially, lurid landscapes 
of dithyrambic coimtries who often show us palms and pines at 
once, tigers at the right, a lion at the left, Tartar minarets on the 
horizon, Roman ruins in the foreground, then kneeling camels— 
the whole framed in a very tidy virgin forest, with a great perpen¬ 
dicular ray of sunlight trembling in the water upon which floating 
swans stand out, at great intervals, in white splotches on a steel- 
gray background. 

And the shade of the oil lamp hanging on the wall above Emma’s 
head would reflect its light upon all these pictures of the world 
which passed before her one after the other, in the silence of the 
dormitory, to the distant clatter of some belated cab that still 
rolled the boulevards. 

When her mother died she wept a great deal in the first few days. 
She had a funeral picture made for her out of the dead woman’s 
hair, and in a letter which she wrote to Les Bertaux, full of gloomy 
reflections upon hfe, she asked to be buried in the same grave, 
later. The good man thought she was ill and went to see her. Emma 
was inwardly gratified at feeling that she had arrived in one step at 
' that rare ideal of pallid existences to which mediocre spirits never 
J attain. So she let herself slip into meanderings in the Lamartine 
manner, listened to harps over the lakes, all the songs of dying 
j swans, all the f allin g leaves, the pure virgins who rise to heaven 
and the voice of the Eternal descanting in the valleys. She wearied 
of it, was unwilling to admit it, continued first out of habit, then 
out of vanity and was at length surprised to find herself comforted, 
and with no more grief in her heart than wrinkles on her brow. 

The good nuns, who had been so convinced of her vocation, 
became aware with great astonishment that Mademoiselle Rouault 
seemed to be escaping their guidance. Actually, they had so bur¬ 
dened her with offices, solitary meditation, novenas and sermonss 

37 



so thoroughly preached the respect owed to saints and martyrs and 
given so much good advice regarding physical modesty and spir¬ 
itual health that she behaved like a horse whom one pulls by the 
bridle: she stopped short and the bit slipped out of her teeth. That 
spirit, positive in the midst of its enthusiasms, which had loved the 
church for its flowers, music for the words of its romantic ballads 
and hterature for its appeal to the passions, rebelled when faced 
with the mysteries of faith, just as she became even more irritated 
by discipline which was something antipathetic to her tempera¬ 
ment. When her father took her out of the convent, no one was 
sorry to see her go. The mother superior even felt that she had 
become, during the last weeks, somewhat irreverent toward the 
Order. 

Returned home, Emma at first took pleasure in ordering the 
servants about, then developed a repugnance for the country and 
regretted her convent. When Charles came to Les Bertaux for the 
first time, she was at the point of considering herself completely 
disillusioned, having nothing more to learn, destined to feel nothing 
further. 

■ But eagerness for a change of conditions, or perhaps the irrita¬ 
tion caused by that man’s presence, had been enough to convince 
her that she at last possessed that great passion which xmtil then 
had hovered like a great pink-plumaged bird soaring in the splen¬ 
dor of poetic skies—and now she was unable to believe that the 
tranquillity in which she was living was the happiness of which she 
had dreamed. 


38 



7 




'evertheless, she sometimes 
thought that these were the most beautiful 
days of her life, the honeymoon, as they say. To savor 
the sweetness of them, she would doubtless have had to go to those 
countries of sonorous names where there is more languorous idle¬ 
ness in the days after marriagel There, in post chaises, shaded by 
blue silk curtains, one climbs at a foot-pace up precipitous paths, 
listening to the song of the postilion which echoes in the mountains 
with the sheep bells and the muted sound of a waterfall. At sunset 
one breathes the fragrance of lemon trees along the shores of the 
bays; then, in the evening, on the terrace of the villa, alone and 
with fingers intertwined, one gazes at the stars while making plans. 
It seemed to her that certain places on earth must produce happi¬ 
ness, like a plant which requires sun and grows poorly any place 
else. If only she could lean on the balcony of some Swiss chalet or 
seclude her melancholy in some Scottish cottage, with a husband 
dressed in a long-sldrted black velvet coat, and wearing boots of 
supple leather, a pointed hat and ruffles! 

Perhaps she might have wished to confide all these things in 

/ someone. But how to express an unanalyzable disquiet which 
changed aspect as clouds do, tormented by the wind? She lacked 
words, opportunity, courage. 

Yet if Charles had been receptive, if he had suspected her trou¬ 
ble, if his glance had even once coincided with her impulse, it 
seemed to her that a sudden overflow would have poured from her 
heart as the ripe fruit falls from a tree when one lays hand to it. 
But, in proportion to the growing intimacy of their life, an inner 
indifference developed, setting her apart from him. 

Charles conversation was flat as the sidewalk of the street, and 
the ideas of everyone he spoke to passed through it without excit- 

39 



ing emotion, laughter or contemplation. He had never been inter¬ 
ested. he said, in going to the theater to see the actors from Pans, 
when he lived in Rouen. He did not know how to swim, nor to 
fence, nor to shoot a pistol, and he was unable to explain to her a 
horseback riding term she came across one day in a novel. 

But on the other hand, shouldn’t a man know everythmg, ex^l 
in divers activities, initiate you into the forces of passion, fte 
refinements of life, all the mysteries? But he tau^t no^g, this 
one, knew nothing, desired nothing. He beUeved her to be happy; 
and she resented his calm, so firmly rooted, that placid dullness, 

even the happiness she gave him. 

Sometime she would make sketches; and it was a great source of 

amusement to Charles to stand there, watching her bend over her 
drawing-block, squinting in order to see her work better, or rolling 
baUs of bread crumbs on her thumb. As for the piano, the faster 
her fingers flew, the more he marveled. She struck the keys ^th 
assurance and ran from top to bottom of the keyboard wiAout 
pause. Thus shaken, the old instrument, whose strings were fray¬ 
ing, could be heard to the end of the village if the vnndow was 
open, and often the sherifFs clerk, passing on the hig^oad, bare¬ 
headed and in slippers, paused to listen, his paper in his hand. 

Emma, besides, knew how to run the house. She sent out the 
patients* statements of accounts in well-turned letters that ^d not 
smack of invoice. On Sundays when they had some neighbor to 
dinner, she contrived to serve attractive dishes, skilfully arr^ged 
pyramids of greengages upon vine leaves, served pots of jeUy 
turned out into dishes and even spoke of buying finger bowls for 
the dessert course. A great deal of respect reflected from aU this 

upon Bovary. i.. i£ 

The end result was that Charles set a higher value upon himselt 

for having such a wife. He pointed with pride, in the sitting room, 

to two pencil sketches of hers which she had had framed in 

large frames and hung against the paper on long green ropes. After 

Mass he could be seen on his doorstep with handsome tapestry 

slippers on his feet. 

He came home late, at ten o’clock, sometimes midmght. Then 
he would ask for something to eat, and as the maid had gone to 
bed, it was Emma who served him. He would take off his coat to 

40 



dine more comfortably. One after the other he would tell of all the 
people he had met, the villages to which he had been, the pre¬ 
scriptions he had written and, pleased with himself, he would eat 
the leftover beef, finish ofiF his cheese, crunch an apple, empty his 
decanter, then go to bed, he on his back and snore. 

As he had long been used to a nightcap, his silk handkerchief 
would not stay over his ears; so his hair, in the morning, was tum¬ 
bled about every which way and white with down from his pillow, 
the string of which came untied during the night. He always wore 
heavy boots which had at the instep two deep wrinkles extending 
obliquely up to the ankles, while the rest of the upper continued 
in a straight line, stretched as if by a shoe-tree. He said that they 
were ^'plenty good enough for the country.** 

His mother upheld him in this economy; for she came to see him 
as before, when there had been some fairly violent squall in her 
own home; and yet the elder Madame Bovary seemed prejudiced 
against her dau^ter-in-law. She found her “too refined in her airs 
for their financial position ; wood, sugar and candles “disappeared 
the way they do in a big mansion,” and the quantity of coal that 
was burned in the kitchen range would have been enough for 
twenty-five mealsl She arranged the younger woman s linens in the 
cupboards and taught her to keep a close watch on the butcher 
when he delivered the meat. Emma accepted these lessons; 
Madaine Bovary bestowed them profusely; and all day long the 
words Daughter and Mother were exchanged, accompanied by 
a slight quivering of the lips, each uttering pleasant words in a 
voice shaken with anger. 

In Madame Dubuc s time, the old lady had felt herself still to be 
the favorite; but now Charles’ love for Emma seemed to her a for¬ 
saking of her own tenderness, an encroachment upon what be¬ 
longed to her; and she observed her son’s happiness jn gloomy 
silence, like some poverty-stricken soul who peers through a win¬ 
dow at people seated aroimd the dinner table in his own former 
home. She kept reminding him, in the guise of recollections, of her 
strug^es and sacrifices and, comparing them to Emma’s negligence, 
came to the conclusion that he was most unreasonable to adore 
Emma in so exclusive a manner. 

Charles did not know what to answer; he respected his mother, 

41 



and he was infinitely in love with his wife; he considered the judg¬ 
ment of the one infalUble, and yet he found the other irreproach¬ 
able. When Madame Bovary had left he would try timidly, and in 
the same terms, to suggest one or two of the more painless observa¬ 
tions he had heard his mother make; Emma, proving to him with 
one word that he was in error, would send him back to his patients. 

Nevertheless, according to the theories in which she believed, 
she tried to inspire herself with love. By moonlight, in the garden, 
she would recite all the impassioned verses she knew by heart and, 
sighing, would sing him melancholy adagios; but afterwards she 
found herself as calm as before, and Charles seemed neither more 
loving nor more stirred by it. 

When she had thus struck her heart a few times with the steel 
without eliciting a spark, and, further, being incapable of under¬ 
standing what she did not experience, as of believing in anything 
which was not manifested in conventional forms, she had no diffi¬ 
culty in persuading herself that there was nothing exorbitant about 
Charles passion. His ardors had become regular; he embraced her 
at certain times. It was a habit among others, and like a dessert 
predictable in advance after the monotony of dinner. 

A gamekeeper, cured of a congested lung by Monsieur, had given 
Madame a small Italian greyhound; she took it for walks-for she 
did go out sometimes, in order to be alone for a moment and to 
escape briefly from the eternal sight of the garden and the dusty 
road. 

She would go as far as the Banneville beech grove, near the 
abandoned pavilion formed by an angle of the wall on the meadow 
side. In the ditch, among the grasses, there were reeds with long 
sharp-edged leaves. 

She would begin by glancing all about to see if anything had 
changed since the last time she had come. She rediscovered in the 
same places foxgloves and wall-flowers, clusters of nettles surroimd- 
ing large stones, and patches of lichen along the three windows 
whose shutters, forever closed, were rotting away on their rusty 
iron bars. Her thoughts, aimless at first, wandered idly as her grey¬ 
hound ran in circles about the meadow, went yapping after yellow 
butterflies, hunted shrew-mice nibbling wild poppies at the edge 
of a wheat field. Then little by little her ideas focused and, sitting 

42 



on the grass which she ruflaed with httle strokes of the tip of her 
parasol, Emma would reiterate to herself: 

“Why, dear God, did I get married?'’ 

She wondered if there might not have been some means, given 
other combinations of chance, of meeting another man; and she 
tried to imagine those events which had not occurred, that different 
hfe, that husband whom she did not know. No one, as a matter of 
fact, bore any resemblance to that man. He would have been hand¬ 
some, witty, distinguished, attractive, as those men undoubtedly 
were whom her former classmates at the convent had married. 
What were they doing now? In the city, with the sounds of the 
streets, the confused murmuring of theaters, and the highlights of 
balls, they led the sort of existence in which the heart dilates, the 
senses expand. But life for her was cold as an attic whose window 
faces north, and boredom, a silent spider, spun its webs in the 
shadow of every comer of her heart. She recalled the days when 
prizes had been distributed, when she had gone up to the platform 
to receive her small crowns. With her braided hair, her white dress 
and her soft woolen slippers showing beneath, she had had a 
charming look, and the gentlemen, when she returned to her place, 
had leaned forward to pay her compliments; the courtyard had 
been crowded with carriages, people had called their good-bys to 
her through the windows, the music master had greeted her in 

passing, with his violin case in his hand. How far away all that 
was! How far awayl 


She would call Djali, take him between her knees, stroke his long 
delicate head and say: 

Come, kiss your mistress, you who have no troubles.” 

pien, contemplating the melancholy expression of the slender 
animal as he yawned languidly, she would become tender and, 
comparing him to herself, would talk to him aloud, as-to s ome 
gfl^cted soul whom one comfo rts. 

But toward the end of September something extraordinary oc- 
cmied in her life; she was invited to La Vaubyessard, to the home 
of the Marquis d'Andervilliers. 

Secretary of State under the Restoration, the marquis, seeking to 
rehim to political life, had for some time been preparing his can- 
cy for the Chamber of Deputies. In the wdnter he made numer- 




ous distributions of Erewood and, in the General Council, ^ways 
vehemently demanded roads for his distrmt. Dui^g the hot 
weather he had had a mouth abscess which Charles had cured ^ 
if by a miracle by opening it with a lancet. His steward, sent to 
Tostes to pay for the operation, told him that evening that he had 
seen superb cherries in the doctor’s garden. Now cherry frees grew 
poorly at La Vaubyessard, Monsieur le Marqms asked Bovary for 
a few cuttings, made a point of thanking him personally, saw 
Emma, discovered that she had a pretty waist and had not m the 
least a peasant woman's manner, so that at the chateau it was not 
felt to be overstepping the limits of condescension nor, on the other 
hand, committing a social blunder to invite the young couple to 


One Wednesday at three o’clock. Monsieur and Madame Boyary, 
seated in their dogcart, set out for La Vaubyessard, vvith a large 
trunk strapped on behind and a hatbox fitted in behind the apron. 
In addition Charles had a cardboard box between his knees. 

They arrived at nightfaU, just as the park lanterns were begin¬ 
ning to be hghted, to show carriages the way. 


chateau, of modem con¬ 
struction in the Italian style, with two wings 
to the front and three entrances, stretched across the end 
of a vast sweep of lawn where several cows were grazing, among 
clumps of great wide-spaced trees, while borders of shmbs, rhodo¬ 
dendrons, syringas and hydrangeas curved their clusters of uneven 
foliage along the windings of the graveled drive. A river flowed 
beneath a bridge; through the mist one glimpsed thatched cottages 
scattered on a prairie bordered by two gentle wooded slopes, and 
beyond, in two parallel lines among clustered trees, stood the 
coach-houses and stables, relics preserved when the old chiteau 
had been tom down. 

Charles dogcart stopped before the center door; servants ap¬ 
peared; the marquis came forward and, offering arm to the 
doctors wife, led her into the vestibule. 

It was paved vrith marble slabs, it was very high-ceilinged and 
the sound of footsteps and voices reechoed there as in a church. 
Opposite, a straight flight of stairs went up, and at the left a gal¬ 
lery overlooking the garden led to the billiard room from which 
one heard, upon entering the door, the click of ivory balls. As she 
v^s crossing this room to reach the drawing-room, Emma saw 
about the table grave-faced men, their chins resting on high cravats, 

all of them wearing decorations and smiling silently as they made 
strokes with their cues. 

The marquis opened the dravring-room door; one of the ladies 
rose (it was the marquise herself), came to meet Emma and had 
her sit down beside her on a love seat, where she began to talk in 
a friendly manner as if she had known her for a long time. She was 
a woman of about forty, vrith fine shoulders, an arched nose, a 
drawling voice and wearing, that evening, a simple lace fichu which 

45 



fell to a point in back. A fair-haired young woman sat beside her 
in a high-backed chair; and several gentlemen with small flowers 
in their buttonholes were standing about the hearth talking with 
the ladies. 

At seven o'clock dinner was served. The men, being more numer¬ 
ous. sat at the flrst table in the vestibule, and the ladies at the 
second, in the dining room, with the marquis and marquise. 

Entering, Emma felt herself enveloped by a warm aroma com¬ 
pounded of the scent of flowers and fine linens, the smell of meat 
and the odor of truffles. The tapers in the candelabra reflected 
elongated flames in silver covers; cut crystal, lightly misted with 
vapor, sent back muted rays; bowls of flowers stood in line the 
whole length of the table and. on the broad-bordered plates, the 
napkins, folded into bishops bonnets, each held in the hollow be¬ 
tween its folds a small oval roll. The red claws of lobsters overhung 
the edges of platters; large fruits were heaped on beds of moss in 
openwork baskets; quail wore their feathers, steam rose; and, in 
knee breeches, silk stockings, white cravat and ruffle, grave as a 
judge, the butler, passing platters of carved meat between the 
shoulders of the guests, with a flick of his spoon served each with 
the piece he selected. On the great porcelain stove with brass rods, 
a statue of a woman muffled to the chin in draperies stared motion¬ 
less over the room full of people. 

Meanwhile, at the upper end of the table, alone among all these 
women, bent over his full plate, his napkin tied around his neck 
like a child's, an old man was eating, drops of gravy falling from 
his lips. He had bloodshot eyes and wore a small queue twisted up 
with a black ribbon. He was the marquis' father-in-law, the old 
Due de Laverdi^re, former favorite of the Comte d'Artois in the 
days of the hunting parties at Vaudreuil, at the Marquis de Con- 
flans* estate, and he had been, they said, Marie Antoinette's lover, 
between de Coigny and de Lauzan. He had led a life wild with 
debauch, full of duels, wagers, abducted women, had squandered 
his fortune and dismayed his family. A servant, standing behind his 
chair, spoke aloud into his ear the names of the dishes he pointed 
at, stammering; and Emma’s eyes kept returning incessantly, of 
their own accord, to that old man with his pendulous lips, as if to 

46 



something extraordinary and august. He had hved at Court, and 
slept in the beds of queensi 

Iced champagne was poured. Emma shivered over every inch of 
her sldn upon feeling that cold in her mouth. She had never seen 
pomegranates nor eaten bananas. Even the powdered sugar looked 
whiter and finer to her than it did elsewhere. 

Afterwards the ladies retired to their rooms to make ready for 
the ball. 

Emma dressed with the meticulous attention of an actress be¬ 
fore her debut. She arranged her hair as the hairdresser suggested, 
and slipped into her barege gown, laid out on the bed. Charles’ 
breeches were too tight in the waist. 

^The foot-straps are going to bother me when I dance,” he said. 

“Dance?” Emma said. 

“Yes!” 

“You re out of your mind I They’ll make fim of you. Stay in your 
place. Besides, it s more suitable for a doctor,” she added. 

Charles fell silent. He was pacing up and down, waiting foz 
Emma to finish dressing. 

He saw her from behind, in the mirror, between two candles. 
Her black eyes seemed blacker. The bands of her hair, gently 
puffed out over her ears, shone with blue lights; a rose in her 
chignon quivered on its mobile stem, with artificial dewdrops at the 
tips of its leaves. Her gown was pale saffron, trimmed with three 
clusters of miniature roses mingled with leaves. 

Charles went to Idss her on the shoulder. 

Let me alone,” she said. “You’re mussing me.” 

They heard a violin flourish and the sounds of a horn. She went 
downstairs, restraining an impulse to run. 

lie quadrilles had begun. Guests were arriving. People pushed 
against one another. She sat down near the door on a bench. 

When the dance was over, the floor was left free for groups of 
men who stood about, talking, and for liveried servants carrying 
^ge trays. Along the line of seated women, painted fans fluttered, 
bouquets half concealed smiles upon faces and gold-stoppered vials 
were toyed with by hands whose white gloves outlined the form of 
me fingernails and squeezed the flesh at the wrist. Ornaments and 
lace, diamond brooches, medallion bracelets, gleamed on bosoms, 

47 



whispered on bare arms. Hair was dressed flat across foreh^ds, 
twisted into a knot in back, and was crowned with garlands ot 
forget-me-nots, jasmine, pomegranate blossoms, feathery grassy or 
bluets, in clusters or in sprays. Peaceful in their places, mothers 

with intent faces wore red turbans. 

Emma s heart beat a little faster when, her partner holding her 

finger tips, she went to take her place in line and waited for the 
stroke of the bow to start the dance. But soon emotion vanished; 
and, swaying to the rhythm of the orchestra, she moved forward 
with delicate motions of the head. A smile rose to her lips at cer¬ 
tain graceful passages from the violin, which sometimes played 
alone while the other instruments were silent; the clear sound of 
gold coins could be heard as they were flung down on baize tables 
at one side; then all would take up the melody again, the cornet 
giving forth a sonorous note. Feet stepped in the measure, skirts 
billowed and rustled, hands joined and parted; the same eyes, 
lowering before you, returned to gaze into yours. 

A few of the men, perhaps fifteen, ranging from twenty-five to 
forty years of age, scattered among the dancers or standing tak¬ 
ing at doorways, were distinguished from the rest by a family 
look, whatever the differences in their ages, dress or features. 

Their suits, better made, seemed to be of a richer material, and 
their hair, drawn back in curls at the temples, given luster by finer 
pomades. They had the complexion of wealth, that white com¬ 
plexion which enhances the translucency of porcelains, the sheen of 
satin, the finish of beautiful furniture, and which keeps up its 
health by means of a discreet diet of exquisite foods. Their necks 
turned in comfort above low cravats; their long side-whiskers fell 
to their turned-back collars; they wiped their hps with handker¬ 
chiefs embroidered with large monograms, from which drifted a 
pleasant fragrance. Those who were begi nn ing to age had a youth¬ 
ful air, while there was an element of maturity upon the faces of 
the younger ones. In their indifferent Ranees was the serenity of 
passions daily gratified; and through their agreeable maimers pene¬ 
trated that particular brutality communicated by domination in 
fairly imexacting matters where force is employed and in which 
vanity takes pleasure: the handling of blooded horses and the so¬ 
ciety of abandoned women. 


48 



The air in the ballroom was heavy; the lamps were growing dim. 
The throng flowed into the billiard room. A servant climbed upon a 
chair and broke two windows; at the sound of glass splintering, 
Emma turned her head and saw in the garden, against the panes, 
the faces of peasants who were watching. Then the memory of Les 
Bertaux returned to her. She saw again the farm, the marshy pond, 
her father in shirt sleeves beneath the apple tree, and she saw her¬ 
self, as she had once been, skimming the cream from the earthen 
pans of milk in the dairy vnih her finger. But in the vivid brilliance 
of the present hour her past life, so clear until that time, faded 
away altogether, and she almost doubted having experienced it. 
She was here; then, surrounding the ball, there was only shadow, 
spread out over all the rest At that moment she was eating a 
maraschino ice in a silver-gilt cup which she held in her left hand, 
and she half closed her eyes, the spoon between her teeth. 

A lady near her dropped her fan. A dancer passed. 

“Would you be so kind. Monsieur,” the lady said, “as to pick up 
my fan? It’s behind this couch.” 

The gentleman bent and, as he was stretching out his arm, Emma 
saw the young ladys hand throw something white, folded into a 
triangle, into his hat. The gentleman, recovering the fan, offered it 
respectfully to the lady; she thanked him with a nod and began to 
sniff at her bouquet. 

After supper, at which were served many Spanish wines and 
Rhine wines, bisque soups and soups made with milk of almonds, 
Trafalgar puddings and all sorts of cold meats in aspic which 
quivered on the platters, the carriages began to leave, one after 
another. Pulling aside a comer of the muslin curtain, one saw the 
light of their lanterns slipping through the dark. The benches were 
deserted; a few card players still remained; the musicians cooled 
their fingers with the tips of their tongues; Charles was half asleep, 
his back propped against a door. 

At three o’clock in the morning the cotillion began. Emma did 
not know how to waltz. Everybody waltzed. Mademoiselle d’Ander- 
villiers herself, and the marquise; only the guests at the chateau 
were left, about a dozen persons. 

Nevertheless, one of the waltzers who was familiarly called “Vis- 
coimt,” and whose very open waistcoat seemed to be molded on 

49 



his chest came a second time to ask Madame Bovary to dance, 
assuring her that he would guide her and that she would acquit 

herself admirably. i.. i j 

They began slowly, then went more quickly. They whirled: 

everything whirled about them, the lamps, the furniture, the 
paneled walls, the floor, like a disc on a pivot As they passed close 
to doors, Emma's gown was blown against his breeches at the bot¬ 
tom; their legs wove in and out together; he lowered his eyes to 
her,' she raised hers to him; languor overcame her, she stopped. 
They began again; and vvdth a more rapid step the viscount, draw¬ 
ing her away, disappeared with her into the gallery, to the end of it 
where breathless, she all but £eU and for a moment rested her head 
against his chest. And then, still whirling, but more gently, he took 
her back to her seat; she leaned back against the wall and laid her 

hand over her eyes. 

When she reopened them, a lady seated on a tabouret m the 
middle of the salon had three waltzing partners on their knees be¬ 
fore her. She chose the viscount, and the violins began again. 

People watched them. They passed and returned, her body im¬ 
mobile, the chin lowered, and he always in the same pose, back 
arched, elbow curved, lips thrust out. She knew how to waltz, that 
womanl They continued for a long time, and tired out all the 

others. r i. a 

There were a few minutes more of talk and then, after the good 

nights, or rather good mornings, the guests went to bed. 

Charles pulled himself upstairs by the banister, his knees “were 
giving way under him.” He had spent five hours in a row standing 
at the tables, watching games of whist without understanding any¬ 
thing about it. He therefore gave a deep si^ of satisfaction when 

he had pulled off his boots. 

Emma pulled a shawl around her shoulders, opened the window 
and leaned on the sill. 

The night was black. A few drops of rain were falling. She 
breathed in the damp air that refreshed her eyelids. The music of 
the dance still rang in her ears, and she made an effort to keep her¬ 
self awake, to prolong the illusion of this luxurious life which she 

jnust soon abandon. 

Dawn broke. She gazed long at the windows of the chateau, 

50 



trying to guess which were the rooms of all those she had noticed 
the evening before. 

She would have liked to know their hves, enter into them, become 
part of them. 

But she was shivering with cold. She undressed and crept be¬ 
tween the sheets, huddling against Charles, who was sleeping. 

There were many people at breakfast. The meal lasted ten 
minutes; no hquids were served, which astonished the doctor. 
Afterwards Mademoiselle d'Andervilhers gathered up bits of 
brioche in a basket, to take them to the swans in the pools, and 
they went to walk in the warm conservatory where exotic plants, 
bristling with spines, rose tier upon tier in pyramids beneath hang¬ 
ing vases which, like overcrowded serpents* nests, let fall over their 
rims long tvidning green cords. The orangery, which lay at the end, 
led under cover to the outbuildings of the chateau. The marquis, 
to entertain the young lady, took her to see the stables. Above 
basket-shaped mangers, porcelain plaques bore the names of the 
horses. Each animal stirred in its stall when one passed close to it, 
clucking with the tongue. The floor of the harness room gleamed 
to the eye like the parquet of a drawing-room. Carriage harness 
hung in the center on two turning columns, and bits, whips, stir¬ 
rups, curb chains hned the walls. 

Charles, meanwhile, went to ask a servant to have his dogcart 
harnessed. It was brought to the doorstep and, all the luggage 
having been stowed within, the Bovarys spoke their farewells to 
the marquis and marquise and set out for Tostes. 

Emma, silent, watched the wheels turn. Charles, perched on the 
extreme edge of the seat, drove with bis two arms wide apart and 
the little horse ambled along between the shafts which were too 
vride for it. The limp reins slapped its rump, becoming damp with 
lather, and the box tied on behind the dog cart gave great rhythmic 
thumps against the body. 

They were on the heists of Thibourville when suddenly a 

group of horsemen passed them, laughing, with cigars in their 

mouths. Emma thought that she recognized the viscount; she 

turned and saw against the horizon only the motion of heads rising 

and falling according to the uneven cadence of the trot or the 
gallop. 


51 



About a mile farther on, they had to stop to mend with string the 
harness, which had parted. 

But Charles, giving it a last glance, saw something on the ground 
between the horse s legs; he picked up a cigar case embroidered 
all over in green silk and emblazoned in the middle like a carriage 

door. 

“There are even two cigars in it,” he said. “They’ll be for tonight, 
after dinner.” 

“So you smoke?” she asked. 

“Sometimes, when the opportunity comes my way.” 

He put his find in his pocket and whipped up the nag. 

When they arrived at home, dinner was not ready. Madame flew 

into a rage. Nastasie answered insolently. 

may leavel” Emma said. “We can do without you. Youre 

discharged.” 

There was onion soup for dinner, and a bit of veal cooked with 
sorrel. Charles, seated across from Emma, said, rubbing his hands 
cheerfully: 

“It’s a pleasure to be home againl” 

They heard Nastasie crying. He was rather fond of the poor girl. 
In other days she had kept him company through many evenings, 
in the idleness of his widowerhood. She had been his first patient, 
his earliest acquaintance in this part of the country. 

“Have you sent her away for good?” he asked at last, 

“Yes. Who’s to stop me?” she answered. 

They warmed themselves in the kitchen while their bedroom was 
being prepared. Charles began to smoke. He thrust his lips for¬ 
ward as he smoked, spat constantly and recoiled at each mouthful 

of smoke. 

“You’re going to make yourself sick,” she said contemptuously. 
He put down his cigar and hurried to drink a glass of cold water 
at the pump. Emma, catching up the cigar case, hastily pushed it 
to the back of the cupboard. 

The next day was a long day. She walked in her garden, going 
and coming on the same paths, pausing before the borders, before 
the fruit trees, before the plaster cur6. contemplating with amaze¬ 
ment all these tilings out of the past which were so familiar to her. 
How far away the ball seemed alreadyl What was it that had set 

52 



day before yesterday morning at such a distance from the evening 
of today? Her trip to Vaubyessard had made a chasm in her life, 
like those great gullies which a storm, in a single night, sometimes 
scoops out of a mountainside. Still, she resigned herself: she laid rev¬ 
erently away in the wardrobe her lovely gown, and even her satin 
slippers whose soles had been yellowed by the slippery wax of 
the dance floor. Her heart was like them: at the touch of wealth 
it had taken on something that would not be wiped away. 

So the memory of the ball became an obsession with Emma. 
Every Wednesday she reflected as she awoke: “Ah, one week ago 
. . . two weeks ago . , . three weeks ago, I was therel” And little by 
little, features became confused in her memory; she forgot the 
melodies of the quadrilles; she no longer saw so distinctly the 
rooms, the servants* liveries; some of the details slipped away but re¬ 
gret remained. 


53 



K^ften, when Charles had gone 
out, she would go to the cupboard and take 
the green silk cigar case from among the folded linens 

where she had left it. 

She would gaze at it, open it, and even snifE the fragrance of its 
lining, tobacco mingled with verbena. To whom did it belong? To 
the viscount. Perhaps it was a gift from his mistress. It had been 
embroidered on some rosewood frame, a delicate little implement 
kept hidden from all eyes, which had provided occupation for 
many hours, and over which the soft curls of the pensive needle¬ 
woman had hung. A breath of love had woven into the mesh of the 
canvas; each stroke of the needle had stitched a wish or a memory 
to it, and all those interwoven silk threads were but the continuity 
of the same silent passion. And then one morning the viscount had 
taken it away with him. Of what had they talked, while he leaned 
against the wide-topped chimney piece, between the vases of 
flowers and the Pompadour clocks? She was in Tostes. He was in 
Paris, by now; he was therel What was it like, this Paris? That 
magnificent name! She repeated it to herself half aloud, for the 
pleasure of it; it resounded in her ears like a great cathedral bell; 
it flamed before her eyes even on the labels of her pomade jars. 

At night, when the fishmongers in their carts passed under her 
windows singing Z/fl Marjolaine, she would awaken; and, listening 
to the noise of iron-sheathed wheels which, going out into the 
country, swiftly died away: 

"They will be there tomorrow,” she would think. 

And she followed them in imagination, climbing and descending 
hillsides, passing through villages, trundling along the highroad in 
the clear starlight. At the end of an indeterminate distance there 
always came a confused spot where her dream expired. Her eyes 

54 



becoming weary, at length she would close her eyelids, and see in 
the shadows jets of gas flame writhing in the wind, and the foot¬ 
boards of carriages maneuvering in great confusion before the en¬ 
trance of some theater. 

She immersed herself in La Corbeille, a woman*s journal, and in 
Le Sylphe des Salons. Omitting nothing, she consumed all the 
descriptions of first nights, race meetings and evening parties, be¬ 
came absorbed in the first appearance of a chanteuse, the opening 
of a shop. She knew the latest fashions, the address of good tailors, 
the days for the Bois or the Opera. In Eugene Sue she studied de¬ 
scriptions of furniture; she read Balzac and George Sand, seeking 
in them some vicarious assuagement of her personal yearnings. She 
even brought her book to the table, and turned the pages while 
Charles talked to her over the meal. The memory of hie viscount 
always recurred during her reading. She established similarities 
between him and the fictional characters. But the circle of which 
he was the center expanded little by little about him, and the 
aureole he wore, becoming separate from his face, spread farther 
out to illuminate other dreams. 

So Paris, vaster than the ocean, was reflected to Emma's eyes in 
an atmosphere of silver-gilt. The multitudinous life which seethed 
in that tumult was nevertheless divided into parts, classed by dis¬ 
tinct pictures. Emma discerned only two or three of them, which 
concealed all the others from her and represented, in themselves 
alone, the whole of humanity. The denizens of the ambassadorial 
world walked over gleaming floors, in salons paneled with mirrors, 
about oval tables covered with gold-fringed green velvet cloths. 
There were gowns with trains, deep mysteries, anguish masked 
beneath smiles. Next came the social sphere of duchesses: in it one 
was pale; one rose at four o'clock; the women—poor angels!—wore 
Brussels lace at the hem of their petticoats, and the men, their 
mental capacities misconstrued beneath a surface of futility, killed 
their horses in the course of their search for pleasure, went to Baden 
for the summer season and at length, nearing forty, married heir¬ 
esses. In the private rooms of restaurants where one went for mid¬ 
night suppers, the motley host of literary folk and actresses laughed 
in the candlelight. Prodigal as kings they were, full of idyllic ambi¬ 
tions and of fantastic dreams. Tte was an existence on a plane 

55 



above the others, between earth and heaven, beset by storms, with 
an element of the sublime. As for the rest of the world, it was lost, 
without any precise position, and as if nonexistent. Besides, the 
closer things were to her, the more she turned from them in her 
thoughts. Everything immediately surrounding her, dull country¬ 
side, imbecile common folk, mediocrity of life, seemed to her an 
exception in the world, a particular set of circumstances in which 
she found herself caught, while beyond stretched, as far as the eye 
could reach, the vast territory of delights and passion. She con¬ 
fused, in her longing, the sensual appeals of Ixixury with the joys 
of the heart, elegance of manners with delicacy of sentiment Did 
love not require, like tropical plants, especially prepared soil, a 
particular temperature? Memories by moonlight, long embraces, 
tears flowing over the hands one must forsake, all the fevers of the 
flesh and the languors of tenderness were, therefore, inseparable 
from the balconies of great chateaux where all was leisure, from a 
silk-curtained boudoir with a thick carpet, vases full of flowers, a 
bed raised upon a dais, from the sparkle of precious stones and the 

braid of liveries. 

The stable boy from the post-house who came every morning to 
groom the mare would walk dovim the corridor in his heavy wooden 
shoes; there were holes in his blouse, his feet were bare in his 
sabots. There was the groom in knee breeches vrith whom she must 
be content! When his work was finished, he did not come again all 
day, for Charles, upon his return, put the horse in the stable him¬ 
self. unsaddled and slipped the halter on. while the maid brought 
a bundle of straw and tossed it as best she could into the manger. 

To replace Nastasie, who at last departed from Tostes. shedding 
rivers of tears, Emma took into service a young girl of fourteen, an 
orphan, with a sweet face. She forbade her to wear dust-caps, 
taught her to address people in the third person, to bring a glass of 
water on a tray, to knock on doors before entering, and, with les¬ 
sons in ironing, starching, dressing her mistress, tried to make a 
ladies’ maid of her. The new maid obeyed without a murmur in 
order not to be discharged; and as Madame, out of habit, left the 
key in the sideboard, every evening F61icit6 helped herself to a 
small store of sugar which she ate all alone, in her bed, after having 
said her prayer. 


56 



In the afternoon, sometimes, she went to chatter with the post¬ 
boys across the street. Madame kept to her room, upstairs. 

She wore a very low-necked dressing gown that revealed, be¬ 
tween the edges of its shawl collar, a pleated shift \vith three gold 
buttons. Her belt was a braided silk rope with heavy tassels, and 
her small gamet-red slippers had large clusters of ribbon on the 
insteps. She had bought herself a blotting-case, some stationery, a 
pen and envelopes, although she had no one to write to; she would 
dust her what-not shelves, gaze at herself in the mirror, take up a 
book, then, dreaming between the lines, let it fall upon her knees. 
She wanted to travel or to return to her convent. She wished at 
once to die and to live in Paris. 

Charles, in snow and rain, rode about the back roads. He ate 
omelettes at farmhouse tables, thrust his arm into damp beds, re¬ 
ceived the tepid gush from a blood-letting in his face, listened to 
death rattles, examined basins, turned back a great deal of dirty 
linen; but every evening he found a leaping fire, a set table, com¬ 
fortable furniture and a charming wife, fastidiously dressed and so 
fragrant that he could not even tell whence the scent came, or 
whether it was not her skin that perfumed her shift. 

She enchanted him with a quantity of delicate details; now it 
was a new way of fashioning paper ruffles for the candlesticks, a 
flounce she had changed on her dress, or the extraordinary name of 
some quite simple dish which the maid had spoiled but which 
Charles swallowed to the last morsel with pleasure. In Rouen she 
saw ladies wearing clusters of charms on their watches; she bought 
some charms. She wanted two large blue glass vases on her mantel¬ 
piece and, some time later, an ivory workbox with a silver thimble. 
The less Charles understood these elegances, the more he yielded 
to their seduction. They added something to his sensual pleasure 
and to the charm of his home. They were like a gold dust sprinkled 
all along the little pathway of his life. 

He was healthy, he had a kind expression; his reputation was 
quite established. The countryfolk thought highly of him because 
he was not haughty. He caressed their children, never set foot in 
the tevem and, further, inspired confidence by his sense of respon¬ 
sibility. He was particularly successful in cases of ^atarrh and in 
chest ailments. In extreme dread of killing his pati^ts, Charles 

57 



actually ordered nothing but sedative potions, an occasional emetic, 
a footbath or leeches. It was not that surgery fri^tened him; he 
bled people freely, like horses, and for tooth extractions he had 
“tlie devil of a grip.*^ 

At length, in order to keep abreast of his profession, he took a 
subscription to La Ruche MSdicale, a new publication of which he 
had received the prospectus. He read a little of it after his dinner, 
but the warmth of the room, in conjunction with his digestive proc¬ 
esses, sent him to sleep at the end of five minutes; and he would 
sit there, his chin on his two hands and his hair flowing down like 
a horse’s mane to the base of the lamp. Emma would look at him, 
shrugging her shoulders. If only she had for a husband at least one 
of those men of taciturn enthusiasms who work over their books at 
night and at last, at sixty, when the age of rheumatism sets in, wear 
a cross upon their black, ill-made suits. She would have liked the 
name of Bovary, which was hers, to be illustrious, to see it dis¬ 
played in bookshops, repeated in newspapers, known by all of 
France. But Charles had no ambitionl A doctor from Yvetot with 
whom he had recently been in consultation had humiliated him 
somewhat, right at the patient’s bedside, in front of the assembled 
relatives. When Charles, that evening, told her about the episode, 
Emma flew into a great temper against the consultant. Charles was 
touched. He kissed her forehead, with tears in his eyes. But she 
was enraged with shame, she wanted to strike him, she went into 
the hall to open the window, and breathed deeply of the cool air 
to quiet herself. 

“What a sorry man, what a sorry man!” she muttered softly, bit¬ 
ing her hps. 

She felt constantly more exasperated with him. With age he was 
developing coarse habits; during dessert he whittled the corks of 
empty bottles; after eating he sucked his teeth; in swallowing his 
soup he made a disagreeable noise with each mouthful and, as he 
was beginning to grow stout, his eyes, small to begin with, seemed 
to be pushed up toward his temples by the pu£Bness of his cheeks. 

Sometimes Emma tucked the red edges of his knitted vest back 
under his waistcoat, readjusted his cravat, or tossed aside the 
stained gloves he was about to put on; and this was not, as he 
thought, for his sake; it was for her own, prompted by transferred 

58 



egotism, nervous irritation. Sometimes, too, she talked to him about 
things she had read, such as passages from a novel, a new play or 
an anecdote of the social world told in a news sheet; for after all 
Charles was a person, an ear always open, approval always ready. 
She confided many things to her wolfhound! She would have con¬ 
fided in the logs on the hearth, the pendulum of the clock. 

In the depths of her soul, meanwhile, she was waiting for an 
event. Like sailors in distress, she cast despairing eyes about the 
solitude of her life, searching the horizon mists for some distant 
white sail. She did not know what the circumstance might be, 
what wind would drive it to her, toward what shores it would take 
her, whether it would be a long-boat or a three-masted ship, laden 
with anguish or filled to the gunwales with delights. But each 
morning, upon waking, she hoped that day would bring it, and she 
listened to every sound, sprang up with a start, was astonished that 
it did not come; then, at sunset, more sorrowful every day, she 
began to yearn for the morrow. 

Spring came again. She had spells of being unable to breathe 
during the first warm days when the pear trees blossomed. 

At the beginning of July she counted on her fingers the weeks 

that still must pass before October, thinking that perhaps the 

Marquis d'Andervilliers would give another ball at Vaubyessard. 

But the whole month of September slipped by without either let¬ 
ters or visits. 

After the vexation of this disappointment, her heart remained 
empty once more, and the procession of days all alike began again. 

So they were going to follow one another, like this, in line. 

always identical, innumerable, bringing nothing! Other existences, 

(m as they might be, offered at least the chance of an event. 

Often one adventure might lead to endless variations, and the scene 

changed. But, for her, nothing happened; it was Gods will! The 

future was an unrelieved black corridor, with the door at the end 
closed fast. 

She abandoned her music. Why play? Who would listen? Since 
^e would never be able to sit in a short-sleeved velvet gown, at an 
Er^d piano, on a concert stage, striking the ivory keys with her 
a^le fingers, and feeling a murmur of ecstasy rise up around her 
like wind, it was not worth the trouble to undergo the tedium of 

59 



studying. She left her sketching blocks in the cupboard, and her 
tapestry frame. What was the use? What was the use? Sewing irri¬ 
tated her. 

“I’ve read everything,” she would say. 

And she went on, heating the fire tongs to red, or watching the 
rain fall. 

How sorrowful she was, on Sunday, when the bells rang for 
Vespersl She would listen in lethargic concentration to the broken 
notes of the bell tolling one by one. A stray cat on the rooftops 
would arch its back to the palhd rays of sunshine. The wind on the 
highway would lift eddies of dust. In the distance, sometimes, a 
dog would howl: and the bell, with measured stroke, would con¬ 
tinue its monotonous tolling which died away out over the country¬ 
side. 

Meanwhile the congregation would be leaving the church. The 
women in polished wooden shoes, the farmers in new blouses, the 
little children bounding aliead of them, bareheaded, would all 
return to their homes. And until nightfall, five or six men, always 
tlie same ones, would stay to play tavern-bush in front of the wide 
door of the inn. 

The winter was cold. Every morning the window panes were 
thick with frost and the light, falfing dull-white through them, as 
tlirough ground glass, sometimes did not vary all day long. The 
lamps had to be lighted at four o’clock in the afternoon. 

On fine days she went out to the garden. The dew would have 
left silvery lace on the cabbage plants, with long bright threads 
stretching from one to another. No birds were to be heard, every¬ 
thing seemed asleep, the fruit trees heaped with straw and the 
grapevine like a big sick serpent below the coping of the wall upon 
which, coming closer, one saw wood lice crawling on their multiple 
legs. Among the evergreens, near the hedge, the cur6 in his three- 
cornered hat read his breviary; he had lost his right foot, and the 
plaster, scaling away in the bitter cold, had left white scabs on his 
face. 

Then she would go back to the house, close the door, heap coal 
on the fire and, half fainting in the heat of the hearth, feel the 
heavier weight of boredom that settled over her. She might have 
gone down to talk with the maid, but reticence restrained her. 

60 



Every day at the same hour the schoolmaster, in his black silk 
cap, opened the shutters of his house, and the gamekeeper passed, 
wearing his saber over his blouse. Evening and morning, the horses 
from the post-house went down the street three by tliree to be 
watered at the pond. From time to time the door of the tavern 
tinkled its beU and, when there was any wind, one heard the two 
brass bowls that served as a sign for the barber’s shop creak on 
their rods. For decoration the shop had an ancient print showing 
hair styles pasted to one window, and a wax bust of a woman with 
yellow hair. He too, the barber, lamented his halted trade, his lost 
future, and, dreaming of a shop in some great city, like Rouen, for 
example, on the quay, near the theaters, he spent his time walking 
up and down, all day long, between the town hall and the church, 
gloomy, waiting for customers. When Madame Bovary raised her 
eyes she saw him always there, like a sentry on duty, with his 
Greek cap over his ear, and his stuff vest. 

Sometimes, in the afternoon, a man’s head appeared beyond the 
living-room windows, a swarthy face with black sideburns, which 
smiled a wide gentle smile with white teeth. At once a waltz would 
begin and, on top of the hand-organ, in a tiny drawing-room, 
dancers no taller than a finger, women in pink turbans, Tyrolians 
in short jackets, monkeys in black coats, gentlemen in knee breeches, 
would circle, circle among armchairs, couches, tables, reflected in 
bits of mirror bound at the edges with strips of gold paper. The 
man turned the handle, glancing right and left and up at the win- 
dpws. From time to time, squirting a long jet of brown saliva 
against the post, he would raise his knee under the instrument 
whose thick strap tired his shoulder; and, listless and dragging or 
joyous and quick, the music came tinkling from the box, through a 
rose taffeta curtain behind an elaborate brass scroll-work. They 
were the melodies that were being played in other places, at 
theaters, that were being sung in salons, to which people danced in 
the evening under gleaming cut-glass chandeliers, echoes of the 
great world that reached out to Emma. Endless sarabandes rolled 
in her head and, like a dancing girl over a flowered carpet, her 
thoughts leaped with the notes, swinging from dream to dream, 
from sorrow to sorrow. When the man had received a few coins in 
his cap, he would pull an old blue wool cover over his organ, raise 

61 



it to his back and move on vidth a heavy step. She would watch 
him go. 

But it was at meal times, above all, that she was unable any 
longer to endure her life, in that small downstairs sitting room, with 
the smoking stove, the creaking door, the sweating walls, the damp 
stone floor; it seemed to her that all the bitterness of existence was 
served on her plate and, along with the steam from the boiled beef, 
it penetrated to the farthest recesses of her spirit, like other 
nauseous aromas. Charles sat long over his meals; she would crack 
a few nuts or else, leaning on her elbow, amuse herself by drawing 

lines on the oilcloth with the tip of her knife. 

Now she neglected everything about the house, and the elder 
Madame Bovary, when she came to spend a part of Lent in Tostes, 
was vastly astonished at the change. Once so fastidious and refined, 
she would now literally go for whole days vidthout dressing, she 
wore gray stockings and used candles for light. She kept repeating 
tliat they had to economize since they were not rich, adding that 
she was perfectly content, perfectly happy, that Tostes was very 
pleasing to her, and other novel remarks which closed the mother- 
in-law's mouth. For the rest, Emma seemed no more disposed to 
follow her advice; on one occasion, Madame Bovary having seen 
fit to observe that employers ought to supervise their servants’ re¬ 
ligion, Emma had answered &gt;vith so angry an eye and so chilly a 
smile that the good woman meddled no further. 

Emma was becoming difiBcult, capricious. She would order spe¬ 
cial dishes for herself and not touch them, one day she would drink 
nothing but pure milk, and the following day cups of tea by the 
dozen. Often she would stubbornly insist upon not going out of the 
house; then she would be stifling, open the windows, put on a thin 
dress. When she had been thoroughly disagreeable to her servant, 
she would give her presents or send her to visit neighbors, just as 
she would sometimes flin g all the silver coins in her purse to the 
poor girl, although she was really not in the least tender-hearted 
nor easily accessible to others* emotion^ like most people bom of 
countryfolk, who always retain upon their spirits something of the 

callousness of the paternal hands. 

Toward the end of February, old Rouault himself, in memory 
of his cure, brought his son-in-law a superb goose, and stayed three 

62 



days in Tostes. Charles being occupied with his patients, Emma 
kept him company. He smoked in the bedroom, spat on the and¬ 
irons, talked about farming, calves, cows, fowl and the municipal 
council; with the result that she closed the door, when he had left, 
with a feeling of satisfaction that surprised even her. In addition, 
she never concealed her contempt for anything or anybody; and she 
sometimes undertook to express extraordinary opinions, criticizing 
what others praised and praising perverse or immoral things: which 
made her husband's eyes widen. 

Was this misery to last forever? Would she never emerge from 
it? She was just as good as all tfie women who led happy lives! 
At Vaubyessard she had seen duchesses with thicker waists and 
more common manners, and she cursed God's injustice; she would 
rest her head against the walls and weep; she coveted tumultous 
living, nights of masquerade, insolent pleasures with all the pas¬ 
sions she had not experienced, and which they must give. 

She grew pale and had palpitations of the heart. Charles admin¬ 
istered valerian and camphor baths. Everything that was tried 
seemed to irritate her further. 

On certain days she chattered with febrile exuberance; these 
exaltations were abruptly succeeded by torpor in which she sat 
without speaking, vrithout moving. Then the thing that roused her 
was sprinkling eau de cologne on her arms. 

As she was constantly complaining of Tostes, Charles assumed 
that the cause of her illness was very likely some local influence 
and, arrested by this idea, he thought seriously of setting up in 
practice elsewhere. 

From that time on, she drank vinegar to make herself lose 
weight, contracted a small dry cough and completely lost her appe¬ 
tite. 

It cost Charles some pain to abandon Tostes after four years 
there, and just when he was “beginning to make a go of it.” Still, 
if it had to be! He took her to Rouen to consult his former teacher. 
It was a nervous affliction; she should have a change of air. 

Having turned this way and that, Charles heard that in the 
Neufchdtel district there was a good-sized town named Yonville- 
I'Abbaye whose physician, a Polish refugee, had just decamped the 
previous week. He wrote to the local pharmacist to find out what 

63 



tlie population was, how far away the nearest doctor lived, what 
his predecessor’s annual income had been, and so forth; and, the 
replies being satisfactory, he resolved to move in the spring if 
Emma's health was not improved. 

One day while tidying out a drawer in anticipation of their de¬ 
parture, she pricked her fingers on something. It was the wire of 
her bridal bouquet. The orange blossoms were yellow vidth dust, 
and the satin ribbons with their silver piping were fraying at the 
edges. She flung it into the fire. It flamed up more quickly than 
dry straw. Then it was like a red shrub upon the embers, and was 
slowly consumed. She watched it bum. The small pasteboard berries 
exploded, the iron wires writhed, the silver braid melted; and the 
shriveled paper corollas, hovering above the hearthstone like black 



64 



PART TWO 




SR&lt; PRATAP COLLEGE LIBRARY 

SRINAGAR ( Kashmir ) 


date loaned 

Class No _ Book No. - - 

Acc. No. ___ 

„ Krrr.-a..t;,=r, 

♦hft hook Is kept over - time._ 



€-5^ onville-l'abbaye — so named 
because of an ancient abbey of the Capuchin 
order whose ruins no longer even exist—is a town about 
twenty-five miles from Rouen, between the Abbeville and Beauvois 
roads, at the bottom of a valley watered by the Rieule, a small river 
that flows into the Andelle. 

Here one is on the borders of Normandy, Picardy and Ile-de- 
France, a bastard country where the language is without typical 
accent as the landscape is without character. It is here that the 
worst Neufchatel cheeses of the whole district are made and, on 
the other hand, farming is costly because a great deal of manure 
is needed to fatten this friable soil, full of sand and pebbles. 

Yonville-rAbbaye, however, has remained stationary. Rather than 
improving upon methods of cultivation, the people there persist in 
grazing cattle, small as the return is, and the lazy town, withdraw¬ 
ing from the plain, has naturally continued to grow toward the 
river. One sees it from a distance, crouched along the bank, like a 
cowherd napping at the wateFs edge. 

A roadway planted with young aspens leads straight to the first 
houses of the region. They are inclosed within hedges, in the middle 
of yards full of scattered buildings, wine presses, wagon sheds and 
boileries standing about under bushy trees bearing ladders, poles 
or scythes propped against their branches. Thatched roofs, like fur 
caps pulled low over the eyes, overhang about a third of the low 
windows whose broad ciu^ed panes are decorated with a knob 
in the middle like the bottom of a bottle. An occasional scrawny 
pear tree clings to a plaster wall crossed by diagonal black timbers, 
and the ground floor doors have small swinging barriers to protect 

67 



them against young chickens who come to the threshold to peck at 
crumbs of dry bread moistened with cider. As one proceeds, the 
yards become narrower, the houses draw closer together, the hedges 
disappear; a bundle of ferns swings from the end of a broom handle 
below a window; there is a blacksmith's forge and then a wheel¬ 
wright, with two or three new carts outside, partly blocking the 
road. Then, through a wicket gate, appears a white house beyond a 
circle of lawn graced by a statue of Cupid, its finger at its lips; two 
cast-iron jars stand at either side of the doorstep; scutcheons gleam 
on the door; this is the lawyer’s house, and the finest in the dis¬ 
trict. 

The chiu-ch is on the other side of the street, twenty yards farther 
on, at the entrance to the square. The small cemetery that surrounds 
it, within a breast-high wall, is so well filled with graves that the 
older stones, sunk flat in the earth, form a continuous paving 
upon which the grass, of its own accord, has drawn regular green 
squares. 

The markets—that is, a tile roof supported by a score of posts— 
take up, in themselves, about half of Yonville’s public square. The 
town hall, constructed “from designs by an architect from Paris,” is 
a sort of Greek temple which stands on the comer, beside the 
pharmacist’s house. On the groimd floor it has three Ionic pillars 
and, on the first floor, a semicircular balcony, while the tympan 
that tops it is occupied by a Gallic cock with one foot planted on the 
Gharter and holding in the other the scales of justice. 

But what most draws the eye is Monsieur Homals’ pharmacy, op¬ 
posite the Lion d’Or inn. In the evening, particularly, when his oil 
lamp is lighted and the red and green glass jars that embellish his 
show window cast their two clear colors out over the ground, then, 
through them as if through Bengal-lights, the shadow of the phar¬ 
macist bending over his desk can be seen. His house is placarded 
from top to bottom with inscriptions in English script, in round 
hand, in print: “Waters of Vichy, Seitz and Barege, depuratives, 
Raspail remedy, Arabian racahout, Darcet pastilles, Regnault oint¬ 
ment, bandages, baths, health chocolates, etc.” And the sign, which 
takes up the whole width of the shop, says in letters of gold: 
Homais, Pharmacist. Then, at the rear of the shop, behind the great 
sealed scales upon the coimter, the word Laboratory is displayed 

68 



above a glass door which, halfway up from the floor, repeats once 
more the name Homais in gold letters on a black background. 

After that, there is nothing more to be seen in Yonville. The 
street (the only one), a rifle-shot in length and flanked by several 
shops, stops short at the turn of the road. If one leaves it on the 
right side and follows the foot of the Saint-Jean hills, one soon 
reaches the cemetery. 

During the cholera epidemic, to enlarge the cemetery, a section 
of the wall was knocked down and three acres of adjoining land 
were purchased; but all this new portion is almost uninhabited, the 
graves continuing, as before, to crowd toward the gate. The guard, 
who is also gravedigger and beadle of the chinch (thus deriving a 
double benefit from the parish's corpses), has availed himself of 
the vacant territory to plant potatoes. From year to year, however, 
his httle field shrinks and, when an epidemic occurs, he does not 
know whether he should rejoice over the deaths or mourn over the 
graves. 

“You live on the dead, LestiboudoisP the priest said to him at 
length, one day. 

This grim remark made him reflect; it stopped him for some time; 
but today he has again taken up the cultivation of his tubers, and 
even maintains with composure that they grow naturally. 

On the evening the Bovarys were to arrive in Yonville, the widow 
Lefran 9 ois, the mistress of the inn, was so extremely busy that 
she was perspiring in great drops as she stirred her stew pots. The 
following day was market day in the town. Meat must be cut up 
in advance, chickens cleaned, soup and coffee prepared. In addition, 
she had her boarders' meals, the doctor's, his wife's and his maid's 
to attend to; the billiard room resounded with shouts of laughter; 
three millers in the small sitting room were c allin g for someone to 
bring them brandy; the wood was flaming, the roast was crackling 
and, on the long kitchen table, among quarters of raw mutton, were 
piled stacks of plates that quivered to the vibrations of the block 
on which spinach was being chopped. From the back yard they 
heard the outcry of fowls that the servant was chasing to cut off 
their heads. 

A man in green leather house slippers, somewhat scarred by 
smallpox and wearing a velvet cap with a gold tassel, was warm- 

69 



ing his back at the hearth. His face expressed nothing but self- 
satisfaction, and his air was as unruflBed as that of the goldfinch 
hanging above his head in a wicker cage: it was the pharmacist. 

“Artemise!” the hostess cried. “Split some wood, fill the pitchers, 
bring some brandy, hurryl If I had at least some idea of what des¬ 
sert to offer the people you’re expectingl Heavenly days, the 
furniture-movers are starting up their racket in the billiard room 
againl And what about their van, left right in front of the door? 
The Hirondelle is likely to ram into it when it gets here! Call Polyte 
to put it away! . . . To think that since this morning they’ve made 
about fifteen stops. Monsieur Homais, and drunk eight pots of 
cider! . . . Why, they’re going to tear the table cover for me,” she 
went on, eying them from a distance, her basting spoon in her 
hand. 

“It would be no great loss,” Monsieur Homais answered. “You 
could buy another.” 

“Another billiard table!” the widow exclaimed. 

“Since that one’s no good any longer, Madame Lefran 9 ois, I 
repeat, you’re doing yourself an injury. You’re doing yourself a 
great injury! And besides, good players nowadays want narrow 
pockets and heavy cues. They don’t play the way they used to any 
more; everything’s changed! Look at Tellier . . 

The hostess reddened with vexation. 

The pharmacist added: 

“There’s no use talking; his billiard table is nicer than yours; 
and if it occurred to him, for example, to set up a patriotic pool for 
Poland or for the flood victims of Lyon . . .” 

“It’s not scoundrels like him who frighten us!” the hostess inter¬ 
rupted, shrugging her plump shoulders. “Get along with you. Mon¬ 
sieur Homais; as long as the Lion dOr stands, people will come to 
it. We’re not so badly off. Whereas one of these mornings you’ll see 
the Caf6 Frangais closed, with a fine notice stuck up on the shut¬ 
ters . . . Change my billiard table,” she continued, muttering to 
herself, “when it’s so convenient for sorting my laundry, and during 
the hunting season I’ve had as many as six guests sleeping on it! ... 
But that slowpoke Hivert hasn’t come yet!” 

“Are you waiting for him for yotir guests’ dinner?” the pharma¬ 
cist asked. 


70 



‘Waiting for him? And Monsieur Binet! On the stroke of six 
youll see him walk in, for he hasn’t an equal on earth for prompt¬ 
ness. He always has to have the same seat in the dining rooml 
You’d kill him sooner than get him to eat dinner anywhere elsel 
And fussy as he is, and so difficult about his ciderl He's not like 
Monsieur L4on; that one sometimes comes in at seven, or even 
seven-thirty; he simply doesn’t notice what he’s eating. What a nice 
young man! Never one word louder than another.” 

‘That’s because there’s a great deal of difference, you see, be¬ 
tween someone who’s had an education and a retired gunner 
turned tax-collector.” 

Six o’clock struck. Binet came in. 

He was dressed in a blue greatcoat, hanging straight down all 
around his lean body, and his leather cap, with earlaps tied up 
with strings on the top of his head, revealed under its raised visor 
a bald forehead ridged by constant wearing of the cap. He wore a 
black cloth waistcoat, a horsehair cravat, gray breeches and, in 
all seasons, well-polished boots which had two parallel swellings 
caused by bunions on his great toes. Not one hair escaped beyond 
the line of his blond fringe of whiskers which, following the con¬ 
tours of his lower jaw, framed his long sallow face, with its small 
eyes and arched nose, like the edging around a flower bed. Excel¬ 
ling at all card games, a good hunter and possessed of an elegant 
handwriting, he had in his home a lathe on which he took pleasure 
in turning napkin rings with which he cluttered his house, with the 
jealousy of an artist and the egotism of a common man. 

He made his way toward the small public room: but first it was 
necessary to eject the three millers from it; and all during the time 
it took to lay his place at table, Binet remained silent in his seat 
beside the stove; then he closed the door and removed his cap, as 
usual. 

“Tf he wears his tongue out, it won’t be vrith polite speeches,” the 
pharmacist said, as soon as he was alone with the hostess. 

“He never talks any more than that,” she said. “Last week two 
young traveling salesmen came here, yoimg fellows full of high 
spirits who spent the evening telling such a lot of funny stories, I 
laughed till I cried; well, he sat there like a dead fish, not saying 
a word.” 


71 



“Yes/’ the pharmacist said. “No imagination, no wit, nothing of 
what makes a man a social light.” 

“Still, they say he has means,” the hostess objected. 

“Means!” Monsieur Homais replied, “He! Means? In his line of 
work it’s possible,” he added in a calmer tone. 

And he went on: 

“Oh, I understand how a merchant who has a considerable trade, 
how a lawyer, a doctor, a pharmacist might become so absorbed 
that they turn queer or even morbid; there are cases of that in his¬ 
tory! But at least it’s because they have something on their minds. 
Look at me, for example, how many times it’s happened that I’ve 
been looking all over my desk for my pen, to write a label, and 
found that I had stuck it over my ear!” 

Meanwhile, Madame Lefran 9 ois went to the door to see if the 
Hirondelle was not arriving. She shivered. A man dressed in black 
came abruptly into the kitchen. One could make out, by the last 
glimmer of tv^ght, that he had a ruddy face and an athletic body. 

“What can I do for you. Monsieur le Cur6?” the mistress of the 
inn asked, lighting one of the brass candlesticks which were ranged 
in line on the mantelpiece. “Will you have something to drink? A 
drop of cassis, a glass of wine?” 

The clergyman declined most courteously. He had come in 
search of his umbrella, which he had forgotten the other day at the 
Ememont convent; and, after having requested Madame Lefran- 
gois to have it sent over to the presbytery during the evening, he 
left to go to the church, where the Angelus was ringing. 

When the pharmacist no longer heard the sound of his steps in 
the square, he found the priest’s conduct of a moment ago highly 
improper. That refusal to accept a bit of refreshment seemed to 
him one of the most revolting hypocrisies; all priests were given to 
tippling when no one was watching, and were trying to bring back 
the times of the tithe. 

The hostess came to her c\ir6’s defense: 

“Anyway, he could break four of you across his knee. Last year 
he help^ our folk bring the hay in; he carried as many as six 
bundles of it at a time, he’s that strongl” 

“Fine!” the pharmacist said. “So you send your daughters to con¬ 
fess to gay fellows with a constitution like that! If I were the 

72 


government, Td have the priests bled once a month. Yes, Madame 
Lefran 9 ois, every month an ample phlebotomy, in the interests of 
order and of morals.” 

“Oh, hush, Monsieur Homais! YouVe godless, you have no re¬ 
ligion.” 

The pharmacist answered: 

“I have a religion, my own religion, and I even have more re¬ 
ligion than all of them, with their mummery and hocus-pocus. I 
adore Godl I believe in the Supreme Being, in a Creator, what¬ 
ever He is, it doesn't matter to me, who has placed us here below 
to fulfil our duties as citizens and as fathers; but I don't need to go 
to church to kiss silver plates and empty my pocket to fatten a lot 
of humbugs who are better fed than we arel For one can honoi 
Him just as well in the woods, in a field, or even by contemplating 
the vault of the heavens, as the ancients did. My personal God 
is the God of Socrates, of Franklin, Voltaire and Beranger. I'm for 
the Profession of Faith of the Savoyard Vicar and the immortal 
principles of '89! So I don't admit any old codger of a God who 
walks in his garden with a cane in his hand, lodges his friends in 
the bellies of whales, dies with a groan and comes to life at the end 
of three days: absurdities in themselves and, furthermore, com¬ 
pletely opposed to all physical laws; which proves, by the way, 
that the priests have always been sunk in a mire of ignorance in 
which they force the populace to wallow with them.” 

He fell silent, looking about him for an audience, for in his 
enthusiasm the pharmacist had momentarily had the illusion of 
being in the midst of the municipal coimcil. But the mistress of the 
inn was no longer listening; she was concentrating on a distant 
soimd of wheels. The noise of a carriage was heard, mingled with 
the clatter of weary hoofs striking the ground, and the Hirondelle, 
at last, stopped before the door. 

Several of Yonville's citizens appeared in the square; they were 
all talking at once, asking for news, explanations and parcels: 
Hivert did not know which to answer. An accident had delayed 
him; Madame Bovary’s wolfhound had run away across country. 
They had whistled for it a good fifteen minutes. Hivert had even 
turned back for half a mile, thinking to catch sight of it at any 
minute; but in the end they had had to go on. Emma had criei 

73 



had lost her temper; she had blamed Charles for the misfortune. 
Monsieur Lheureux, the cloth merchant, who had been with them 
in the coach, had tried to console her with numerous examples of 
lost dogs recognizing their masters after many long years. He had 
heard of one, he said, who had returned to Paris from Constanti¬ 
nople. Another had gone more than a hundred miles in a straight 
line and swum across four rivers; and his own father had owned a 
poodle who, after twelve years of absence, had suddenly jumped up 
on him one evening in the street, as he was going to dinner in town. 




T^mma was first to get down, 
then Felicity, Monsieur Lheureiix, a nurse, 
and they were obliged to awaken Charles in his comer, 
where he had fallen into a deep sleep as soon as night had come. 

Homais introduced himself; he offered his compliments to 
Madame, his respects to Monsieur, said that he was charmed to 
have been able to be of service to them, and added with a cordial 
air that he had ventured to invite himself to dine with them, his 
wife being absent in any case. 

Madame Bovary, when she came into the kitchen, moved toward 
the fireplace. With the tips of two fingers she picked up her gown 
at the knee and, having thus raised it to her ankles, she held out 
to the flames, above the leg of mutton turning on the spit, her foot 
in its black boot. The firelight fell full upon her, its harsh brilliance 
picking out the weave of her dress, the regular pores of her white 
sldn and even the eyelids, which she closed over her eyes from time 
to time. A great red glow flickered over her, responsive to the 
breath of the wind which came in at the half-open door. 

From the other side of the hearth a fair-haired young man 
watched her silently. 

As he was extremely bored in Yonville, where he acted as clerk 
for Lawyer Guillaumin, Monsieur L6on Dupuis (for this was he, 
the Lion dO/s second regular guest) frequently put back his din¬ 
ner hour in the hope that some traveler would come to the inn with 
whom he could talk during the evening. On days when his chores 
were finished, for lack of anything else he could think of to do, he 
had to arrive at the exact hour and endure from soup to cheese the 
unrelieved society of Binet. So it was with joy that he accepted 
the hostess suggestion that he dine with the new arrivals, and they 

75 



moved to the large room where Madame Lefran9ois, out of osten¬ 
tation, had had the four places laid. 

Homais asked permission to keep on his Greek cap, for fear of 

coryza. 

Then, turning toward the lady beside him: 

“Madame must be a bit tired? One is so appallingly jounced 
about in our Hirondeller 

“That's true,” Emma answered. “But moving always amuses me. 

I love changes of scene.” 

“Its so tiresome, living shut up in one place,” the clerk sighed. 

“If you were like me,” Charles said, “always having to be on 
horseback . . 

“Why, there's nothing pleasanter, it seems to me,” Leon said, 
addressing Madame Bovary. ‘When one can do it,” he added. 

“Besides,” the apothecary said, “the practice of medicine isn't 
particularly difficult in our district, for the state of our roads per¬ 
mits the use of a carriage, and in general people pay quite well, the 
farmers being well off. In the medical line, aside from ordinary 
cases of enteritis, bronchitis, bilious attacks and so forth, we have 
occasional intermittent fevers at harvest time, but on the whole 
nothing much of a serious nature, nothing particularly noteworthy, 
except for a good deal of scrofula which undoubtedly comes of the 
deplorable hygienic conditions of our peasants' homes. Oh, you'll 
find plenty of prejudices to combat. Monsieur Bovary; plenty of 
stubbornness over habits which all the efforts of your science will 
come in conflict with every day; for people here still resort to no- 
venas, relics, the priest, rather than going naturally to the doctor or 
the pharmacist. Still the climate, strictly speaking, isn’t bad, and we 
even number a few nonagenarians in the community. The ther¬ 
mometer (I’ve made observations of it) goes down to four degrees 
in winter, and in the hot season goes up to twenty-five or thirty 
degrees Centigrade at most, which gives us a maximum of twenty- 
four Reaumur, or to put it another way, fifty-four Fahrenheit (an 
English measurement), no morel—and as a matter of fact, we’re 
sheltered from the north winds by the Argueil forest on the one 
hand; from the west winds by the Saint-Jean hills on the other; 
and yet this heat, which because of the water vapor given off by 
the river and the presence of a considerable number of cattle on 

76 



the plains, which exhale, as you know, a great deal of ammonia, 
that is to say nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen (no, just nitrogen and 
hydrogen), and which, sucking up the moisture of the earth, 
blending all these different emanations, uniting them in one bun¬ 
dle, so to speak, and combining itself with the electricity in the 
atmosphere, when there is any, could in the long run give rise to 
unhealthy miasmas, as in tropical countries—this heat, as I say, is 
nicely tempered on the side from which it comes, or rather the side 
from which it would come, that is to say the south, by the southeast 
winds which, having cooled themselves by blowing over the Seine, 
sometimes come to us all of a sudden like breezes from Russial” 

“Have you at least some nice walks in the vicinity?” Madame 
Bovary continued, talking to the young man. 

“Oh, very fewl” he answered. “There s a place called the Pasture 
on the top of the hill, o dge of the forest. I go there some¬ 

times on Sundays, and I ..^^y there with a book, watching the sun¬ 
set.” 

“I think there's nothing lovelier than a sunset,” she said, “but 
especially at the seashore.” 

“Oh, I adore the sea,” Monsieur Leon said. 

And then doesn t it seem to you,” Madame Bovary returned, 
that the mind sails more freely over that endless expanse, con¬ 
templation of which uplifts the spirit and brings thoughts of the 
infinite, the ideal?” 

“Its the same in mountainous country,” L^on said. “I have a 
cousin who traveled in Switzerland last year and who was telling 
me that you can t imagine the romance of the lakes, the charm of 
the waterfalls, the gigantic effect of the glaciers. You see incredibly 
tall pine trees, cottages hung on cliffs above torrents, and a thou¬ 
sand feet below you. whole valleys when the clouds part a little. 
Spectacles like those must fill you with rapture, make you feel like 
praying, make you ecstatic! So Tm no longer surprised by that 
famous musician who, in order to stir up his imagination more, 
used to go and play the piano in front of some very impressive scene.” 

“Are you musical?” she asked. 

“No, but Tm very fond of music.” 

“Don't toen to him, Madame Bovary,” Homais interrupted, lean¬ 
ing over his plate. “Its sheer modesty. Why come now, my dear 

77 



fellow, the other day in your room you were singing ‘L'Ange Gar- 
dien* to perfection. I heard you from my laboratory; you got it off 
like a professional.” 

lAon, indeed, Uved in the pharmacists house, where he had a 
small room on the second story, overlooking the square. He flushed 
at this compliment from his landlord, who had already turned 
back to the doctor and was enmnerating for him, one after the 
other, the leading citizens of Yonville. He told anecdotes, gave in¬ 
formation. Nobody knew exactly the extent of the lawyer s fortune, 
and “there was the Tuvache family who made a great deal of trou¬ 
ble.” 

Enuna said: 

“And what music do you prefer?** 

“Oh, German music, the sort that makes one dream.” 

“Are you famihar with the Italiens?** 

“Not yet, but I shall hear them next year when I go to live in 
Paris to finish my law courses.” 

“As I had the honor of informing your husband,” the pharmacist 
said, “in connection with that poor fellow Yanoda who ran away: 
thanks to the foolish things he did, you will find yourselves pos¬ 
sessed of one of Yonville’s most comfortable houses. One particu¬ 
larly convenient thing about it, for a doctor, is a door opening on 
the lane, which permits people to come and go vvdthout being 
seen. Besides, it's furnished with every housekeeping facility: laun¬ 
dry room, kitchen with pantry, family sitting room, orchard and so 
forth. He was the sort of chap who never counts the cost. He had 
an arbor built at the end of the garden, beside the water, just to 
drink beer in, in summer time, and if Madame likes gardening 
she'll be able to . . 

“My wife never bothers with it,” Charles said. “Although exercise 
is recommended for her, she prefers to stay in her room and read.” 

“Like me,” L6on observed. “As a matter of fact, what is better 
than to sit by the fire with a book while the wind shakes the 
window panes and the lamp flames up . . . ?” 

“Isn't it true?” she said, fixing her great black eyes, wide open, 
upon him. 

“One think s of no thin g," he continued, “the hours go by. Motion¬ 
less, you walk through the lands you seem to see, and your thought, 

78 



interweaving with the fiction, lingers over details or follows the 
outlines of adventures. It becomes involved with the characters; it 
seems that it is your heart that beats underneath their costumes.” 

Thats righti Thats righti” she said. 

“Has it ever happened to you,” Leon went on, “that you en¬ 
counter in a book a vague idea you once had, some cloudy image 
that returns from a distance, and a sort of complete analysis of 
your most formless emotion?” 

“I have experienced that,” she replied. 

“That’s why I am especially fond of the poets,” he said. “I find 
verse more dehcate than prose, and that it makes a much stronger 
appeal to the emotions.” 

“Still, it becomes wearisome in time,” Emma returned. “Right 
now I am just the opposite, I adore stories that come one after the 
other, in the same breath, and frighten one. I detest ordinary 
heroes and temperate emotions, as they appear in nature.” 

ActuaUy, it seems to me, the clerk said, “that those works which 
do not stir the heart miss the true aim of Art. It is so pleasant, 
among the disenchantments of life, to be able to escape in thought 
to noble characters, pure afEections and pictures of happiness. As 

for me, living here, far from the world, that is my only diversion; 
but Yonville offers so few resourcesl” 

Like Tostes, no doubt, Emma said. “So I was always a sub¬ 
scriber to lending libraries.” 

“If Madame will do me the honor of making use of it,” the 
pharmacist said, having just heard the last words, “I will place at 
her disposal my own library composed of the best authors: Vol¬ 
taire, Rousseau, Delille, Walter Scott, UEcho des Feuilletons, and 
so forth; and in addition I receive various periodicals every day, 
such as the Fanal de Rouen, since I have the privilege of being 
toeir correspondent for the districts of Buchy, Forges, Neufchatel, 
Yonville and the outlying regions.” 

They sat at table for two and a half hours; for Art^mise, the 
servant, carelessly dragging her list slippers over the stone floor, 
kept bringing dishes one after the other, forgot everything, under¬ 
stood nothing, and constantly left the door to the billiard room ajar 
so that it banged the wall with the tip of its latch. 

Unconsciously, while talking, lAon had set his foot on one of the 

79 



rungs of the chair in which Madame Bovary was sitting. She was 
wearing a little blue silk tie which gathered a pleated batiste collar 
into a ruff; and, according to the motions of her head, the lower 
part of her face was hidden in the material or emerged from it 
with a charming effect. It was thus, sitting side by side, while 
Charles and the pharmacist chatted together, that they entered into 
one of those vague conversations in which a chance phrase con¬ 
tinually brings one back to the fixed center of shared sympathy. 
Parisian theaters, titles of novels, new quadrilles, and the world of 
which they knew nothing, Tostes where she had lived, Yonville 
where they were, they examined them all, discussed them all until 
the end of dinner. 

When the coffee was served, F^licit^ went to prepare the bed¬ 
room in the new house, and the guests soon broke up the meeting. 
Madame Lefran9ois was asleep beside the ashes of the fire, while 
the stable boy, a lantern in his hand, was waiting for Monsieur and 
Madame Bovary, to lead them to their house. His red hair was 
tangled with wisps of straw, and he limped on his left leg. When 
he had picked up the curb's umbrella in his other hand, they 

started off. 

The town slept. 

The pillars of the market cast long shadows. The earth was all 
gray, as on a summer night. 

But, the physician*s house being but fifty yards from the inn, 
they had almost at once to wish one another good night, and the 
company parted. 

Emma, the moment she stepped into the entrance hall, felt the 
chill of plaster fall over her shoulders like damp cloth. The walls 
were new, and the wooden steps creaked. In the bedroom, on the 
second floor, a pallid light came in at uncurtained windows. One 
caught a glimpse of treetops and, beyond, the prairie, half sub¬ 
merged in the fog which curled like smoke in the moonlight along 
the course of the river. In the center of the room, jumbled together, 
were dresser drawers, bottles, curtain rods, gilded sticks, with 
mattresses on chairs and wash basins on the floor—the two men 
who had brought the furniture having negligently left everything 

there. 


80 



It was the fourth time that she had gone to bed in a strange 
place. The first had been the day of her entrance into the convent, 
the second that of her arrival in Tostes, the third at La Vaubyes- 
sard, the fourth here; and each one had seemed like the inaugura¬ 
tion of a new phase in her life. She did not believe that things 
could turn out to be the same in different places, and since that 
portion of life already lived had been unpleasant, undoubtedly 
what remained to be consumed would be better. 


81 




next morning, upon waking, 
she caught sight of the clerk in the square. She 
was in her dressing gown. He raised his head and made 
a gesture of greeting. She gave a hasty nod and closed the window 
again. 

L^on looked forward all day to six o’clock in the evening, but, 
entering the inn, he found only Monsieur Binet, at table. 

That dinner the evening before had been an outstanding event 
for him; up to then he had never talked for two hours in a row 
with a lady. How was it, then, that he had been able to express to 
her, and in such language, a quantity of things that he could not 
have said so well before? He was timid, normally, and maintained 
that reserve which partakes equally of modesty and dissimulation. 
In Yonville he was said to have “nice” manners. He listened to older 
men’s reasonings and did not seem at all excited over politics, a 
remarkable attribute for a young man. Then, too, he had certain 
talents, he painted in water colors, knew how to read music and, 
of his own free will, devoted himself to literature after dinner, when 
he was not playing cards. Monsieur Homais respected him for his 
education; Madame Homais was fond of him for his obliging na¬ 
ture, for he frequently accompanied the Homais children to the . 
garden, urchins who were always dirty, extremely poorly brought 
up and somewhat lymphatic like their mother. To take care of them 
they had, in addition to the maid, Justin, the pharmacy student, a 
distant relation of Monsieur Homais who had been taken into the 
house out of charity and who served at the same time as a servant. 

The apothecary proved to be the bert of neighbors. He gave 
Madame Bovary advice about the tradespeople, had his own cider 
dealer make a special trip, tasted the beverage himself and super¬ 
vised the careful storing of the cask in the cellar; he showed her, 

82 



too, how to go about securing a supply of butter at a low price, and 
made arrangements with Lestiboudois, the sacristan, who, aside 
from sacerdotal and mortuary functions, cared for the principal 
gardens of Yonville by the hour or by the year, according to the 
owners* wishes. 

It was not merely a need for outside interests that impelled the 
pharmacist to so much obsequious cordiality; he had a plan beneath 
it all 

He had contravened Article One of the law of Ventose 19th, year 
XI of the French Republic, which forbids any individual not pos¬ 
sessed of a diploma to practice medicine; with the result that, fol¬ 
lowing certain clandestine denunciations, Homais had been sum¬ 
moned to Rouen, to the presence of the public prosecutor in his 
private office. The magistrate had received him standing, ermine at 
his shoulders and his cap on his head. It was in the morning, before 
court. The stout boots of policemen were heard in the corridor, and 
a distant sound of heavy bolts being shot. The pharmacist*s ears 
sang in a way that made him think he was about to have an apo¬ 
plectic stroke; he seemed to see dungeon cells, his family in tears, 
the pharmacy sold, all the vials scattered far and wide; and he was 

obhged to go into a caf6 for a glass of rum and seltzer to restore 
his spirits. 

Gradually the memory of that admonition faded, and he con¬ 
tinued, as he had done before, to give consultations and anodynes 
in his back room. But the mayor had a grudge against him, some of 
his colleagues were jealous, he must go in fear of everyone; by ply¬ 
ing Monsieur Bovary with courtesies he hoped to win his gratitude 
and deter him from speaking out, later, if he should notice any- . 
thing. So every morning Homais took him the newspaper and often, 
in the afternoon, left the pharmacy for a moment to go and have 
a chat with the physician. 

Charles was gloomy; patients failed to come. He sat for long 
hours without speaking, went to sleep in his office or watched his 
wife sew. For distraction, he worked about his house like a hired 
man, and he even tried to paint the storehouse with a bit of color 
the housepainters had left behind. But he was obsessed with finan¬ 
cial matters. He had spent so much for repairs in Tostes, for 
Madame*s clothes and for moving that the whole marriage settle- 

83 



ment, more than three thousand ^cus, had melted away in two 
years. Then too, how many things had been damaged or lost in 
transit from Tostes to Yonville, to say nothing of the plaster cure 
which, falling out of the cart at one particularly bad bump, had 
shattered into a thousand fragments on the street of Quincampoixl 

A happier soiu-ce of concern came to divert him when he learned 
of his wife’s pregnancy. In proportion as her time drew nearer he 
cared for her more and more tenderly. This was another bond of 
the flesh being established, and rather like the extended sentiment 
of a more complex union. When, from a distance, he saw her lan¬ 
guid steps, and her waist turning indolently above uncorseted hips; 
when, face to face with her, he watched her, utterly relaxed, assum¬ 
ing attitudes of exhaustion as she sat in her armchair, then his 
happiness could not be contained; he would rise, kiss her, run his 
hands over her face, call her little mother, try to get her to dance 
and, half laughing, half crying, pour out upon her all sorts of caress¬ 
ing pleasantries that came into his mind. The idea of having 
fathered a child filled him with delight. Now nothing was lacking. 
He knew the whole course of human existence, and he sat down 

to it serenely, his two elbows on the table. 

Emma, at first, felt a vast astonishment, then she was anxious to 
be delivered in order to find out what it was like to be a mother. 
But, unable to spend as much money as she wanted or to have a 
bassinet with pink silk draperies and an embroidered hood, she lost 
all interest in the layette and, in an access of bitterness, ordered it 
all at once from a village seamstress without selecting or discussing 
anything. Thus she took no pleasure in those preparations by means 
of which a mother s tenderness is aroused in advance, and her affec¬ 
tion, from the start, was perhaps somewhat attenuated by it. 

However, since Charles kept talking about the baby at every 
meal, presently she began to think about it in a more consecutive 

manner. 

She hoped for a son; he would be strong and dark, and would be 
named Georges; and this idea of having a male as her child was 
like a hope of revenge for all her past impotence. A man, at least, 
is free; he can explore passions and continents, overcome obstacles, 
nibble at the most distant pleasures. But a woman is continually 
restrained. Inert and flexible at once, she is confronted with the 

84 



fragilities of the flesh and the restrictions of the law. Her will, like 
the veil of her hat caught back with a cord, flutters in every wind; 
there is always some desire urging her on, some convention restrain¬ 
ing her. 

She went into labor one Simday about six o’clock, at sunrise. 

“It’s a girir Charles said. 

She turned her head away and lost consciousness. 

Almost immediately Madame Homais hastened over to embrace 
her, and Madame Lefran 9 ois of the Lion dOr as well. The pharma¬ 
cist, a discreet man, merely called congratulations through the half¬ 
open door for the time being. He asked to see the baby and pro¬ 
nounced her well formed. 

During her convalescence Emma concentrated largely upon find¬ 
ing a name for her daughter. First she reviewed all those with 
Italian endings, such as Clara, Louisa, Amanda, Atala; she rather 
liked Galsuinde and was even fonder of Yseult or L^ocadie. Charles 
wanted the child to be named for his mother; Emma rebelled. They 
scanned the calendar from end to end and asked the advice of 
others. 

“Monsieur L^on,” the pharmacist said, “was astonished when I 
talked to him the other day to hear that you’re not choosing Made¬ 
leine, which is so fashionable just now.” 

But the elder Madame Bovary protested vehemently against this 
sinner’s name. Monsieur Homais’ personal preference was for those 
which recalled some great man, an illustrious feat or a generous 
conception, and it was according to this system that he had chris¬ 
tened his four children. Thus Napoleon represented glory, and 
Franklin liberty; Irma was perhaps a concession to romanticism, 
but Athalie expressed homage for the most immortal masterpiece of 
the French stage. For his philosophical convictions did not interfere 
with his artistic appreciation; he would have liked to crown Racine 
with his own hands and at the same time argue with him for a full 
quarter of an hour. 

At length Emma remembered that at La Vaubyessard she had 
heard the marquise call one young woman Berthe; from that time 
on, this was the chosen name and, as old Rouault was unable to 
come. Monsieur Homais was asked to be godfather. 'The evening 
of the ceremony there was a great dinner; the cur6 was there; 

85 



excitement ran high. Over the liqueurs. Monsieur Homais recited LtC 
Dieu des Bonnes Gens, Monsieur L6on sang a barcarole and the 
elder Madame Bovary, who was the godmother, a ballad of the days 
of the Empire; presently Monsieur Bovary senior insisted that the 
baby be brought down, and began to baptize her with a glass of 
champagne which he poured on her head. The cur6 wanted to 
leave: the ladies pleaded with him; Homais interceded, and they 
were able to get the clergyman to sit down again. 

Monsieur Bovary remained a month longer in Yonville, whose 
inhabitants he dazzled with a superb policeman’s cap trimmed in 
silver braid which he wore in the morning to smoke his pipe in the 
square. Having also the habit of drinking a great deal of brandy, 
he frequently sent the servant to the Lion d^Or to buy him a bottle 
which was charged to his son’s account; and he used up his daugh¬ 
ter-in-law’s entire supply of eau de cologne, scenting his handker¬ 
chiefs. 

She was not in the least displeased to have his company. He had 
traveled about the world: he would speak of Berlin, Vienna, Stras¬ 
bourg, of his days as an officer, of mistresses he had had, of great 
breakfasts he had attended; then, too, he was so friendly, and some¬ 
times, on the stairs or in the garden, he would clasp her around the 

waist, crying: 

“Charles, watch outl” 

Then the elder Madame Bovary became alarmed for her sons 
happiness and, fearing that her husband might eventually have an 
immoral influence upon the young woman s ideas, hastened to urge 
their departure. Perhaps she had more serious worries. Monsieur 

Bovary was a man who respected nothing. 

One day Emma was suddenly assailed by a desire to see her little 
girl, who had been put out to nurse with the carpenter s wife, and 
set out for RoUet’s home, which lay at the far end of the village, 
at the foot of the hill, between the highroad and the prairies. 
A heavy wind was blowing. Emma felt weak, walking; the gravel 
of the sidewalk hurt her; she was xmdecided whether she should 
not return home or go into some house to sit down. 

At this moment Monsieur L6on came out of a near-by door with 
a bundle of papers imder his arm. He came to greet her, and stood 
in the shade of the awning which jutted out in front of Lheureux 

86 



shop. Madame Bovary said that she was on her way to see her baby, 
but that she was beginning to feel tired. 

“So..Leon said, not venturing to pursue the subject. 

“Are you going somewhere on business?** she asked. 

And, upon the clerk*s reply, she begged him to accompany her. 
By evening, this was knovim all over Yonville, and Madame Tu- 
vache, the mayor*s wife, declared in her servant’s presence that 
“Madame Bovary was putting herself in a compromising position.” 

Both of them walked slowly, side by side, she leaning upon his 
arm and he shortening his stride to hers; before them a cloud of 
flies hovered, buzzing in the hot air. 

They recognized the house by an ancient walnut tree which 
shaded it. Low and roofed with brown tiles, it had a string of 
onions hung outside under the storeroom window. A few sticks, 
propped upright against the bramble fence, inclosed a square of 
lettuce plants, several rows of lavender and some sweet peas climb¬ 
ing upon poles. Dirty water trickled here and there over the soil, 
and all about were hung a number of nameless rags, woolen stock¬ 
ings, an Indian-red camisole and a wide sheet of thick canvas 
spread out along the hedge. At the sound of the gate, the nurse 
appeared, holding on her arm a baby who was nursing at her 
breast. By the other hand she dragged a wretched puny youngster, 
his face covered with scrofula, the son of a Rouen hosier, whom his 
parents, too busy with their trade, left in the country, 

“Come in,” she said. “Your little girl is asleep over there.” 

The ground-floor room, the only one in the house, had a wide 
uncurtained bed at one end, against the wall, while the kneading 
trough stood beside the window, one pane of which had been 
patched with blue paper. Emma’s baby was sleeping in a wicker 
cradle that stood on the ground. She picked her up, with the blanket 
that was wrapped around her, and began to sing softly, swaying 
her body. 

L4on prowled about the room; it seemed strange to him to see 
this lovely woman in her nankeen gown in the midst of all that 
poverty, Madame Bovary flushed; he turned away, thinking that 
perhaps his gaze had been somewhat impertinent. Then she put 
down the baby, who had just spit up on her collar. The nurse came 
at once to wipe it off, assuring her that it would not show. 

87 



“She does it to me all the time ” she said, “and I spend most of 
my time washing herl So if you d be so kind as to tell Camus the 
grocer to let me have a bit of soap when I need it? It would even 
be more convenient for you; I wouldn’t have to bother you. 

“Very well, very welll” Emma said. “Good-by, M^re Rollet. 

And she went out, wiping her feet at the threshold. 

The good woman accompanied her to the end of the yard, talk¬ 
ing all the while of the trouble she had getting up at night. 

“I’m so worn out sometimes that I fall asleep in my chair; so the 
least you could do would be to give me a nice poimd of ground 
coffee that would last me a month and I could drmk it with milk 
in the morning.” 

After having suffered the woman’s thanks, Madame Bovary left; 
and she was some little way down the path when, at the sound of 
wooden shoes, she turned her head: it was the nurse. 

“What is it?” 

The peasant woman, drawing her to one side behind an elm tree, 
then began to speak of her husband who, v^dth his work and the 
six francs a year which the captain . . . 

“Get to the point faster,” Emma said. 

“Well,” the nurse went on, sighing between each two words,'“I’m 
afraid he may get his feelings hurt, seeing me drink coffee all alone; 
you know, men . . 

“But you will have some,” Emma said, “I am going to give you 
somel . . . You’re making a nuisance of yourself.” 

“My poor dear lady, the trouble is that he gets terrible cramps in 
his chest as a result of his wounds. He says that even cider dis¬ 
agrees with him.” 

“Will you hurry, M^re Rolletl” 

"So,” she went on, dropping a curtsy, “if it wouldn’t be asking 
too much . . .” she curtsied again, “whenever you will be so good 
. . ” and her eyes pleaded ... “a little pitcher of brandy,” she said 
at last, “and HI mb your baby’s legs vrith it, they’re limp as a 
tongue.” 

Rid of the nurse, Emma took Monsieur Lion’s arm once more. 
She walked quickly for a while; then she slowed her pace, and her 
glance, which she had been directing straight ahead, fell upon the 
shoulder of the yoimg man, whose coat had a black velvet collar, 

88 



His chestnut hair hung down over it, flat and neatly combed. She 
noticed his fingernails, which were longer than was usual in Yon- 
ville. Keeping them in order was one of the clerk's chief occupa¬ 
tions; and for this purpose he kept a particular penknife in his desk 

drawer. 

They were speaking of a troupe of Spanish dancers who were 
expected soon in the Rouen theater. 

“Are you going?” she asked, 

“If I can,” he replied. 

Had they nothing else to say to one another? Still, their eyes were 
brimming with more serious talk; and while they forced themselves 
to find commonplace phrases, they felt an identical languor over¬ 
coming both of them; it was like a murmur from the soul, deep, 
uninterrupted, which rose above that of their voices. Overcome 
with astonishment at this pleasant new sensation, they did not think 
to mention it to one another or to seek its cause. Future delights, 
like tropical coastlines, project upon the immensity which precedes 
them their native lassitudes, a scented breeze, and one drowses in 
that intoxication without even troubling to search for the horizon 
which cannot yet be seen. 

At one spot the earth had given way beneath the trampling of 
cattle; they had to walk upon great green stones evenly spaced in 
the mucL Frequently she would pause for a moment to see where 
to set her foot; and, balancing on the unsteady rock, her elbows 
thrust out, bending forward at the waist, her eye irresolute, she 
would laugh over her fear of falling into the puddles of water. 

When they had reached the front of her garden, Madame Bovary 
pushed open the little gate, ran up the steps and disappeared. 

Li4on returned to his ofiBce. His employer was out; he glanced at 
the briefs, then trimmed a pen point, at last took his hat and left. 

He went to the Pasture, at the top of the Argueil hill, at the edge 
of the forest; he lay down on the ground imder the pine trees and 
looked at the sky through his fingers. 

“How bored I ami” he said to himself. “How bored I am!” 

He felt that he was to be pitied, living in this village with Homais 
for his friend and Monsieur Cuillaumin for his employer. This latter 
gentleman, utterly absorbed in business matters, wearing eyeglasses 
with gold temple-pieces and red whiskers over a white cravat, had 

89 



no appreciation of the finer aspects of the intellect, although he 
affected a rigid, English m ann er that had dazzled the clerk in 
earlier days. As for the pharmacist’s wife, she was the epitome of 
the good Norman wife, gentle as a sheep, cherishing her children, 
her father, her mother, her cousins, weeping for the ills of others, 
letting everything go about her house and detesting corsets—but so 
slow-moving, so dull to listen to, so common in appearance and so 
limited in conversation that, although she was thirty and he twenty, 
although they slept in adjoining rooms and he spoke to her every 
day, it had never occurred to him that she might be regarded as a 
woman, nor that she possessed any attributes of her sex beyond the 
dress. 

And other than these, who was there? Binet, a few merchants, 
two or three tavern-keepers, the priest, and finally Monsieur Tu- 
vache, the mayor, with his two sons, wealthy, siurly, obtuse folk, 
cultivating their land themselves, visiting back and forth within 
their own family, religious besides and utterly unendurable as com¬ 
panions. 

But against the common background of all these hiunan faces, 
Emma’s stood out, isolated and yet even more distant, for he sensed 
vague chasms between her and himself. 

In the beginning he had gone to her home several times, ac¬ 
companying the pharmacist. Charles had certainly not seemed 
extremely anxious to receive them; and L4on did not know what 
course to take between the fear of being overforward and the 
desire for an intimacy which he considered almost impossible. 



4 - 




FTER the first frosts, Emma 


forsook her bedroom for the sitting room, a 
long apartment with a low ceiling in which a gnarled 
coral plant stood on the chimney-piece, spreading its branches 
against the mirror. Sitting in her armchair beside the window, she 
would watch the village folk go by on the sidewalk. 

Leon, twice a day, went from his work to the Lion dOr; from a 
distance Emma would hear him coming; she would lean forward, 
listening; and the young man wotdd move past beyond the curtain, 
always dressed in the same fashion and without turning his head. 
But at twilight when, with her chin in her hand, she had abandoned 
her u nfinis hed needlework upon her lap, she often shivered at the 
sudden appearance of that shadow slipping by. She would stand 
up and order the maid to lay the table. 

Monsieur Homais would arrive during dinn er. Greek cap in 
hand, he would enter on silent feet in order not to disturb anyone, 
and always repeating the same phrase: “Good evening, everybodyl” 
Then, when he had taken his place beside the table, between hus¬ 
band and wife, he would ask the doctor for news of his patients, 
and Charles would consult with him about the probability of pay¬ 
ment. At eight o’clock Justin would come to find him to close the 
pharmacy. Then Monsieur Homais would eye him banteringly, 
particularly if F61icit6 was in the room, having noticed that his 
pupil was developing a fondness for the physician’s house. 

‘"This fine fellow of mine,” he would say, “is be ginnin g to 

have ideas. Devil take me if I don’t think he’s in love with your 
maidl” 


But a more serious fault, and one with which he was constantly 
reproaching him, was Justin's habit of listening to conversations. On 
Sunday, for example, it was impossible to get him to leave the 



drawing-room, to which Madame Homais had summoned him to 
fetch the children who were falling asleep in their chairs, pulling 
the oversized slip covers out of shape with their backs. 

There were not a great many people who came to these evening 
parties at the pharmacist’s, his backbiting and his political opinions 
having alienated various respectable persons from him, one after 
the other. The clerk never failed to be there. The moment he heard 
the bell he would hasten to Madame Bovary, take her shawl, and 
place the large felt slippers she wore over her shoes when there 
was snow to one side, under the pharmacy counter. 

To begin with, there would be a few games of trente-et-im; later 
Monsieur Homais would play 6cart6 with Emma; Leon, standing 
behind her, would give her advice. With his hands on the back of 
her chair, he would gaze at the teeth of her comb biting into her 
chignon. At every motion she made in playing her cards, her dress 
slipped up on her right shoulder. From her upswept hair a deep 
tan color crept down over her back and, gradually paling, was lost 
in the shadow. Below, her gown fell to her chair at either side, in 
soft puffs full of folds, and hung down to the floor. When L4on, 
occasionally, felt the sole of his boot come down upon it, he started 
as if he had stepped upon a person. 

When the card games were finished, the apothecary and the 
physician would play dominos, and Emma, changing places, would 
lean her elbows on the table and glance through the Illustration. 
She brought her own fashion magazine. L^on would sit beside her; 
together they looked at the pictures and waited for one another 
at the end of each page. Often she asked him to read poetry to 
her; L6on recited it in a drawling voice which he was careful to 
let die away over love passages. But the sotmd of the dominos 
disturbed her; Monsieur Homais was a good player, he beat 
Charles hands down. Then, having finished three hundred-point 
games, they would both stretch out before the hearth and lose 
no time falling asleep. The fire would die among its ashes; the 
teapot would be empty; L4on would go on reading, Emma listened, 
mechanically turning the lampshade upon which were painted 
pierrots in carriages, and tight-rope walkers with their balancing 
poles. L4on would stop, making a gesture toward his sleeping 
audience; then they would talk in low voices, and the conversation 

92 



between them would seem the more delightful for not being over¬ 
heard. 

So there grew up between them a sort of communion, a constant 
interchange of books and romantic verse; Monsieur Bovary, rarely 
a jealous man, was not alarmed by it. 

For his birthday he received a fine phrenological skull, all marked 
off into numbered squares down to the thorax, and painted blue. 
This was a token of respect from the clerk. He made many others, 
even going so far as to run errands for him in Rouen; and, a certain 
novelist^s book having made fashionable a craze for cactus plants, 
L4on bought several for Madame and brought them home on his 
lap in the Hirondelle, pricking his fingers all the way on their 
tough spines. 

She had a shelf with a railing hung outside her window to hold 
her potted plants. The clerk, too, had his hanging garden; they 
caught glimpses of one another, tending their flowers at their 
windows. 

Among the village windows there was one that was even more 
frequently tenanted, for on Sunday, from morning to night, and 
every afternoon in clear weather. Monsieur Binet’s lean profile was 
to be seen in an attic dormer, bending above his lathe whose 
monotonous snarling could be heard as far as the Lion (TOr. 

One evening, returning to his room, L4on found a velvet table 
cover with flowers and leaves embroidered in wool against its 
pale background. He called Madame Homais, Monsieur Homais, 
Justin, the children, the cook; he mentioned it to his employer; 
everyone wished to know the meaning of this table cover; why 
was the physician's wife making gifts to the clerk? It seemed very 
queer, and the general opinion was that she must be his mistress. 

He led people to believe it, he talked so constantly about her 
charms and her intelligence, to such an extent that one time Binet 
answered him brutally: 

*What does it matter to me, since I don't associate with herl" 

He tortured himself, trying to invent some way of making his 
declaration; and, forever vacillating between fear of offending her 
and shame at being so pusillanimous, he would weep with dis¬ 
couragement and desire. Then he would come to rigorous deci¬ 
sions; he would write letters which he tore up, set time limits for 

93 



hims elf which he kept postponing. Frequently he set out in the 
determination of daring all; but i'his resolution promptly forsook 
him in Emma’s presence, and when Charles, happening in, invited 
him for a drive in the dogcart, to go and call on some patient in 
the neighborhood, he would accept at once, bow to Madame and 
depart Her husband, after all, was something of hers, was he not? 

As for Emma, she did not examine herself to find out if she 
loved him . Love, she believed, shoxild strike suddenly, with 
thunder claps and fulgurations—a tornado out of the heavens 
which hurls itself upon life, turns it upside down, snatches away 
volition like leaves and sweeps the whole heart off to the abyss. 
She did not know that, on the terraces of houses, the rain makes 
lakes when the gutters are choked, and she might thus have re¬ 
mained in her security had she not suddenly discovered a fissure 
in the wall. 



r was one Sunday in February, 
an afternoon when it was snowing. They had 
all set out. Monsieur and Madame Bovary, Homais and 
Monsieur L^on, to see a textile mill that was being built in the valley, 
a mile and a half from Yonville. The apothecary had brought Napo¬ 
leon and Athalie with him to give them some exercise, and Justin 
accompanied them carrying umbrellas on his shoulder. 

Homais talked. He explained to the party the future importance 
of this establishment, calculated the strength of the flooring, the 
thickness of the walls, and greatly regretted not having a measuring 

stick, such as the one Monsieur Binet possessed, for his own per¬ 
sonal use. 


Emma, on his arm, leaned a little against his shoulder and gazed 
at the sim*s disc shedding its dazzling pale radiance afar in the 
mist; but she turned her head: Charles was there. He had his 
cap pulled down over his eyebrows, and his two thick lips were 
quivering, which added an element of stupidity to his expression; 
even his back, his placid back was irritating to see, and she found 
displayed there on his greatcoat all the dullness of his personality. 

While she was contemplating him, savoring thus in her irritation 
a sort of depraved gratification, L^on took a step forward. The 
cold which blanched his skin seemed to invest his face with a 
gentler languor; between his cravat and his neck, the collar of his 
shirt, somewhat loose, revealed the flesh beneath; the tip of an 
ear showed through locks of hair, and his great blue eyes, lifted 
to the clouds, seemed to Emma more limpid and more beautiful 
than those mountain lakes in which the sky reflects. 

“Little beasti” the apothecary shouted suddenly. 

And he ran toward his son, who had just leaped into a pile of 

95 



lime to paint his shoes white. At the scoldings heaped upon him, 
Napoleon began to howl, while Justin wiped off his shoes with a 
twist of hay. But he had needed a knife; Charles offered his. 

“So!” she thought. “He carries a knife in his pocket, like a 
peasant.” 

Frost was settling, and they turned back toward Yonville. 

That evening Madame Bovary did not go to her neighbors’, and 
when Charles had left, as soon as she felt herself to be alone, the 
comparison recommenced in the clarity of an almost immediate 
sensation and with that lengthening of perspective which memory 
gives to objects. Staring from her bed into the bright fire, she 
saw L^on again as he had been out there, standing upright, flicking 
his switch with one hand and with the other holding Athalie who 
was peacefully sucking a bit of ice. She found him charming; she 
could not tear her mind away from him; she recalled his other 
attitudes on other days, phrases he had said, the sound of his voice, 
his whole person; and she kept repeating, thrusting out her lips as 
if for a kiss: 

“Yes, charming, charming! ... Is he in love?” she wondered. 
“Then with whom? . . . Why, me!” 

Then the eternal lamentation began: “Oh, if heaven had only 
willed it! Why wasn’t it so? But what’s to prevent. . . ?” 

When Charles returned, at midnight, she pretended to wake up 
and, as he made a certain amount of noise undressing, she com¬ 
plained of a headache; then she asked carelessly what had hap¬ 
pened during the evening. 

“Monsieur L4on went up to his room early,” he said. 

She was unable to restrain a smile, and she fell asleep with her 
spirit full of a new enchantment. 

The next day at nightfall she received a visit from Monsieur 
Lheureux, the linen-draper. He was a very clever man, this shop¬ 
keeper. 

A Gascon by birth, but turned Norman, he combined his southern 
fluency with the cunning of Caux. His plump face, soft and beard¬ 
less, looked as if it had been dyed in a thin solution of licorice, 
and his white hair accentuated even further the intensity of the 
sharp glitter in his small black eyes. No one knew what he had 
been before: a peddler, some said, a banker in Koutot according 

96 



to others. What is certain is that he did in his head calculations 
complex enough to appall Binet himself. Polite to the point of 
obsequiousness, he always held himself slightly bent forward at 
the waist, in the attitude of one who is bowing or issuing an 
invitation. 

Having left his hat with its crepe band at the door, he placed 
a green pasteboard box upon the table and began by regretting, 
with many courteous expressions, that he had gone until now 
without making Madame’s acquaintance. A poor shop like his 
was not the sort to appeal to an elegant woman; he emphasized 
the words. Nevertheless, she had only to make her wishes known, 
and he would undertake to supply whatever she wanted, whether 
in notions or linens, millinery or novelties; for he went to town 
four times a month regularly. He had connections with the best 
houses. One could mention his name at the Trois Frires, the Barbe 
dOr or the Grand Sauvage; all these gentlemen knew him as well 
as the inside of their own pocketsi So today he had come to show 
Madame, in passing, various articles which he happened to have 
on hand, thanks to most unusual circumstances. And he drew from 
a box a half-dozen embroidered collars. 

Madame Bovary examined them. 

"I don't need anything," she said. 

Then Monsieur Lheureux delicately displayed three Algerian 
scarves, several packets of English needles, a pair of woven straw 
slippers and, finally, four coconut eggcups hand-carved by convicts. 
Then, with his two hands flat on the table, his neck stretched out, 
bending from the waist, open-mouthed, he followed Emma's glance, 
which wandered uncertainly among his merchandise. From time 
to time, as if to flick ofl a bit of dust, he snapped a fingernail 
against the silk of the scarves, imfolded to their full length; and 
they would rustle with a soft soimd, making the gold spangles 
in their fabric shimmer like little stars in the greenish glow of twi¬ 
light. 

"How much are they?” 

"Practically nothing,” he said. "Practically nothing; but there’s no 
hiury; whenever it’s convenient. We aren’t like money lenders!” 

She reflected for a few moments and, in the end, again thanked 
Monsieur Lheureux, who replied undisturbed: 

97 



‘Very well, well come to an understanding later on; I always 
get along with the ladies, that is except my ownl” 

Emma smiled. 

“This is just to let you know,” he said with a good-natured air, 
after his joke, “that it"s not money that worries me ... I would 
give you some, if need be.” 

She made a gesture of surprise. 

“Oh,” he said quickly and in a low voice, ‘1 wouldn’t have to go 
far to find it for you; you may count on that.” 

And all the while he repacked his box, he commented upon the 
doctor’s practice. 

‘1 suppose it’s the weather that causes these illnesses?” he said, 
glancing at the window with a frowning face. “I don’t feel ab¬ 
solutely right, myself; one of these days I’ll have to come and 
consult Monsieur about a pain in my back. Well, good-by, Madame 
Bovary; your humble servant, at your servicel” 

And he closed the door very gently behind him . 

Emma had her dinner served in her room, beside the fire, on a 
tray; she sat long over the meal; everything seemed good to her. 

“How wise I wasl” she said to herself, think ing of the scarves. 

She heard steps on the stairs: it was L^on. She rose and snatched 
from the top of the dresser the first of a pile of dust cloths to be 
hemmed. She seemed very much occupied when he appeared. 

The conversation languished, Madame Bovary abandoning it 
from moment to moment, while he him self remained as if utterly 
bewildered. Seated on a low chair by the hearth, he turned the 
ivory needle-case in his fingers; she plied her needle or, occasion¬ 
ally, ran her fingernail along the creases in the cloth. She did not 
speak; he fell silent, enchanted by her silence as he would have 
been by her words. 

“Poor boy!” she thought. 

“How have I offended her?” he wondered. 

At length, however, L4on said that he would have to go to 
Rouen one day soon, on an errand connected with his studies. 

“Your music subscription has run out, shall I renew it?” 

“No,” she answered. 

“Why?” 

“Because ...” 

98 



And, pursing her lips, she drew a long needleful of gray thread 
slowly through the cloth. 

That task annoyed L4on. Emma’s finger tips seemed to be getting 
roughened by it; a gallant phrase came into his head, but he did 
not risk saying it. 

“You’re giving it up, then?” he asked. 

“What?” she said sharply. “Music? Oh, Lord, yes! Haven’t I my 
house to keep, my husband to look out for, a thousand things, duties 
that have to come first!” 

She glanced at the clock. Charles was late. Then she posed as 
the anxious wife. Two or three times she repeated; 

“He’s so good!” 

The clerk was fond of Monsieur Bovary. But these evidences 
of tenderness toward him startled him in a disagreeable fashion; 
nevertheless he took up his praises, he knew how to get along 
with everyone, he said, and especially the pharmacist. 

“Ah, there’s a fine man,” Emma said. 

“Absolutely,” the clerk said. 

He began to talk about Madame Homais, whose extremely care¬ 
less attire usually set them laughing. 

“What does that matter?” Emma interrupted. “A good mother 
doesn’t bother about her clothes.” 

Then she relapsed into silence. 

It was the same in the days that followed; her speech, her man¬ 
ner, everything about her changed. She was seen taking her house¬ 
keeping seriously, going regularly to church and treating her serv¬ 
ant more strictly. 

She took Berthe back from the nurse. F61icit6 would bring her 
in when visitors came, and Madame Bovary would take the child’s 
clothes off to show her legs and arms. She affected to adore 
children; this one was her consolation, her joy, her obsession, and 
she accompanied her caresses with lyrical extravagances which, 
to anyone but the citizens of Yonville, would have recalled Sachette 
in Notre-Dame de Paris. 

When Charles came in he would find his slippers set to warm by 
the embers. Now his waistcoats were never without linings, or his 
shirts without buttons, and he even had the pleasure of con¬ 
templating all his nightcaps arranged in neat piles in the ward- 

99 



robe. She no longer sulked, as she used to do, over taking walks in 
the garden; whatever he suggested was always agreed to, even 
though she might not understand the whims to which she yielded 
without a murmur; and when Leon saw him beside the fire after 
dinner, his hands clasped across his paunch, his feet on the and¬ 
irons, his cheek flushed with digestion, his eyes moist with happi¬ 
ness, with the child creeping about on the carpet and that woman 
with her slender waist who came to kiss his forehead, leaning over 
the back of his chair: 

“What madness!” he thought. “And how am I to get to her?” 

At such times she seemed to him so virtuous and inaccessible 
that all hope, even the vaguest, forsook him. 

But by this renunciation he placed her in an extraordinary 
situation. She was absolved, for him, of the sensual qualities from 
which he had nothing to gain; and in his heart she rose higher 
and higher, withdrawing in the magnificent manner of a newly 
deified soul taking flight. It was one of those pure emotions which 
do not interfere with the process of living, which one cultivates 
for their rarity, and the loss of which is a greater affliction than 
the possession is cause for rejoicing. 

Emma lost weight, her cheeks paled, her face lengthened. With 
the black bands of her hair, her great eyes, her straight nose, her 
step light as a bird’s and her now almost continuous silence, did 
she not seem to be moving through life, scarcely touching it, and 
bearing upon her brow the obscure mark of some sublime pre¬ 
destination? She was so melancholy and so calm, at once so gentle 
and so remote, that in her presence one felt overcome by a glacial 
charm, as one shudders in churches imder the touch of flower- 
scents mingled with the chill of marble. Even the others were 
not proof against this fascination. The pharmacist said: 

“She’s a woman of great possibilities who wouldn’t be out of 
place in a sub-prefecture.” 

The middle-class women admired her thrift, the patients her 
courtesy, the poor her charity. 

But she was full of hungers, rage and hate. That gown with its 
straight folds concealed a heart in turmoil, and those reticent lips 
did not tell of its torments. She was in love with L4on, and she 
desired solitude in order to be able more conveniently to delight 

100 



in her image of him. The sight of his person interfered with the 
satisfying quahty of this communion. Emma quivered to the sound 
of his step; then, in his presence, the emotion collapsed and there 
remained only a vast astonishment which fell away into sorrow. 

Leon was not aware, when he left her house in despair, that 
she sprang from her chair behind him, to see him in the street. 
She worried over his comings and goings, she examined his face; 
she invented a whole long story as a pretext for visiting his room. 
The pharmacist’s wife seemed very fortunate to her because she 
slept under the same roof; and her thoughts kept alighting upon 
that house like the pigeons from the Lion (TOr, who came there to 
dip their pink feet and white wings in the rain gutters. But the 
more Emma became aware of her love, the more she suppressed 
it, so that it might not become apparent and in order to diminish 
it. She would have liked Leon to suspect it; and she would imagine 
circumstances, catastrophes which would have facilitated his doing 
so. What restrained her, no doubt, was indolence or fright, and 
modesty as well. She thought that she had repulsed him too far, 
that there was no longer time, that all was lost. Then pride, the 
joy of saying to herself, “I am virtuous,” and of watching herself 
in the mirror while she assumed attitudes of resignation consoled 
her a little for the sacrifice she believed that she was making. 

Then the appetites of the flesh, hunger for money and the 
melancholy of passion all were blended into a single torment; and, 
rather than shaking her thoughts free of it, she concentrated upon 
it the more, arousing herself with the pain of it and seeking new 
sources for it in all things. 

The exasperating thing to her was that Charles had not the air 
of suspecting her anguish. His conviction that he was making her 
happy seemed a witless insult, and his sense of security a further 
ingratitude. For whose sake, then, was she being virtuous? Wasn’t 
it for him, the obstacle to all felicity, the cause of all misery, and 
in a way the sharp-pronged buckle of the strap that was lashed 
about her? 

So she expended upon him alone the multiple hatreds that rose 
out of her lustrations, and each effort to lessen them served only 
to augment them; for that futile exertion added itself to the other 
sources of despair and contributed even further to her estrange- 

101 



ment from iiim. Her own natural gentleness gave her spasms of 
rebellion. Domestic mediocrity drove her to lustful fantasies, marital 
tenderness to adulterous desires. She would have liked Charles to 
beat her so that she might more justly detest him, and be revenged. 
She was alarmed sometimes by the appalling conjectures that 
arose in her mind; and she must go on smiling, listening to herself 
repeat that she was happy, pretend to be happy, let him believe 
that she was! 

She had moments of disgust, however, at this hypocrisy. Tempta¬ 
tions assailed her; to run away with Leon, somewhere, far away, 
to try to find a new destiny; but at once there would open in her 
mind a vague chasm, full of obscurity. 

“Besides, he doesn’t love me any more,” she would think. "What’s 
to become of me? What help can I hope for, what consolation, 
what relief?” 

She would lie crushed, panting, inert, sobbing in a whisper and 
with tears running down her face. 

"Why not tell Monsieur about it?” the servant asked her when 
she came into the room during these spasms. 

"It’s nerves,” Emma said. "You’re not to mention it to him, you 
would upset him.” 

"Ah yes,” Felicity said. "You’re just like Gu^rine, old Gu6rin the 
PoUet fisherman’s daughter, whom I knew in Dieppe before I came 
to you. She was so sad, so sad that to see her standing on her own 
doorstep had the same effect on you as a funeral crepe hung on the 
door. It seems her trouble was a sort of fog she had in her head, 
and the doctors couldn’t do anything for her, or the priest either. 
When it came over her too bad, she’d go down ail alone to the 
seashore, and lots of times the customs officer, making his rounds, 
used to find her stretched out flat on her face on the sand, crying. 
Then after her marriage that went away, they say.” 

"But in my case,” Enuna said, “it was after marriage that it 
came.” 


102 



C^NE evening when the window 
was open and when, seated on the sill, she 
had been watching Lestiboudois, the beadle, as he was 
trimming the shrubbery, she suddenly heard the Angelus ring out. 

To its repeated sounds, the young woman’s thoughts wandered 
among old memories of her youth and the convent. Nostalgia swept 
over her: she felt soft and utterly forlorn as a bit of down from a 
bird’s breast tiunbling in a tempest; and it was unconsciously that 
she turned her steps toward the church, intent upon some act of 
devotion, no matter what, so long as she might bend her soul to 
it, and all of existence melt away. 

On the square she met Lestiboudois returning; for, in order not 
to cut his day short, he preferred to interrupt his tasks, then resume 
them, with the result that he rang the Angelus whenever he found 
it convenient. Besides, the bells, when nmg earlier, informed the 
children of catechism time. Some of them who had arrived were 
already playing marbles on the gravestones in the cemetery. Others, 
astride the wall, were waving their legs, clipping off with their 
wooden shoes the great dusty nettles that grew between the low 
parapet and the last graves. 

“Where is the priest?" Madame Bovary asked a young boy who 
was amusing himself by shaking the turnstile in its overlarge hole. 

“He’s coming," he answered. 

And indeed, the presbytery door creaked, Abb6 Boumisien ap¬ 
peared; the children scrambled pellmell into the church. 

“Those ragamuffinsl" the clergyman murmured. “Always the 
samel” 

And, picking up a tattered catechism which he had just stumbled 
over: 


“The/ve no respect for anythingl" 

103 



But as soon as he caught sight of Madame Bovary: 

“Excuse me,” he said, “I didn’t recognize you.” 

He thrust the catechism into his pocket and paused, swinging 
the heavy key to the sacristy between two fingers. 

^ “How are you?” he added. 

“Not well at all,” Emma rephed. “I’m suffering.” 

“Well, so am I,” the clergyman said. “It’s amazing how these first 
hot days wear you out, isn’t it? But after all, what can you expect? 
We are bom to suffer, as Saint Paul said. But what does Monsieur 
Bovary have to say about it?” 

“Himl” she said with a contemptuous gesture. 

“Whatl” the good man said, dumfounded. “Hasn’t he prescribed 
anything for you?” 

“Oh,” Emma said, “earthly remedies are not what I need.” 

But the priest kept glancing into the church, where all the chil¬ 
dren, on their knees, were pushing at one another with their 
shoulders and tumbling over one another. 

She fixed pleading eyes on the priest. 

“You ...” she said. “You ease all torments.” 

“Ah, don’t speak to me about it, Madame Bovaryl This very 
morning I had to go to Bas-Diauville for a cow that had the bloat; 
they thought it was an evil spell. All their cows, I don’t know how 
. . . But pardon mel Longuemarre and Boudetl Confound it, will 
you stop!” 

And he darted abruptly into the church. 

The boys were crowding about the great pulpit, climbing over the 
precentor’s seat, opening the missal; others, on cat-feet, were about 
to venture into the confessional. But the cur6, erupting among 
them, scattered a hail of cuffs over them all. Catching them by the 
jacket collar, he lifted them off the floor and flung them down on 
their knees on the stone floor of the choir, forcefully, as if he were 
trying to plant them there. 

“Therel” he said when had returned to Emma, shaking out his 
big calico handkerchief, one comer of which he held between his 
teeth. “The farmers are certainly to be pitied.” 

“There are many others,” she replied. 

“Surelyl The laborers in cities, for example.” 

“They aren’t the ones ...” 

104 



‘'Excuse me I IVe known poor mothers of families there, virtuous 
women, I assure you, genuine saints, who even lacked bread.” 

“But those women,” Emma said, and the comers of her mouth 
twisted as she spoke, “those women. Monsieur le Cure, who have 
bread and have not...” 

“A fire in winter,” the priest said. 

“Oh, what does that matterl” 

“How^s that? What does it matter? It seems to me that when one 
is warm, well fed ... for after all ... ” 

“Oh, God! Oh, God!” she sighed. 

“You feel ill?"* he said, moving toward her with a look of uneasi¬ 
ness. “The digestion, very likely. You had better go home, Madame 
Bovary, and drink a cup of tea; that Avill fortify you, or even a glass 
of cool water with sugar in it.” 

“Why?” 

She seemed to have the air of one who rouses from deep 
meditation. 

“Why, you were rubbing your forehead. I thought you felt a 
fainting spell coming on.” 

Then, recollecting: 

“But you were asking me something. What was it, now? I don t 
remember.” 

“I? Nothing . . . nothing ...” Emma said. 

And her gaze, which she had been casting about her, came 
slowly down to rest upon the old man in the cassock. They stared 
at one another, face to face, without speaking. 

“In that case, Madame Bovary,” he said at length, “excuse me, 
but duty comes first, you know; Ill have to hurry with those 
rascals of mine.” 

And he entered the church, genuflecting in the doorway. 

Emma saw him move out of sight between the double row of 
pews, walking with heavy steps, his head tilted slightly toward 
one shoulder and his hands hanging half-open at his sides. 

Then she turned on her heels, all in one piece, like a statue on 
a pivot, and set out toward her house. But the cur6*s thick voice and 
the shrill voices of the children still came to her ears and continued 
on behind her: 

“Are you a Christian?” 


105 



"Yes, I am a Christian.” 

“What is a Christian?"* 

“One who, having been baptized . . . baptized . . . baptized."* 

She went upstairs, clinging to the banister and, when she had 
reached her room, let herself fall into a chair. 

The pallid light at the windowpanes faded slowly, wavering. 
Pieces of furniture in their places seemed to have become more 
immobile, and to lose themselves in shadow as in a twilight ocean. 
The hearth was dark, the clock ticked on and on, and Emma 
wondered vaguely at this tranquillity of things while there was 
such turmoil within herself. But there was little Berthe, between 
the table and the window, staggering on her knitted bootees and 
trying to reach her mother to clutch the ends of her apron strings. 

“Let me alone,” Emma said, pushing her away with her hand. 

Presently the little girl returned, standing even closer against 
her mother’s knees; and, leaning her arms across them, she raised 
her great blue eyes to Emma, while a thread of clear saliva dribbled 
from her lip onto the silk of the apron. 

“Let me alonel” the young woman repeated, thoroughly irritated. 

Her expression frightened the child, who began to cry. 

“Oh, will you let me alone!” she said, thrusting her aside with 
her elbow. 

Berthe tottered over to fall against the foot of the wardrobe, 
encountering the brass drawer-pull; she cut her cheek on it, blood 
flowed. Madame Bovary sprang to pick her up, broke the bell-pull, 
called the servant at the top of her voice and was about to burst 
into imprecations against herself when Charles appeared. It was 
dinner time; he came in. 

“Look, my dear,” Emma said to him in a calm voice. “The bab/s 
just hurt herself, playing on the floor.” 

Charles reassiured her, the injury was not serious, and went to 
get some diachylum. 

Madame Bovary did not go downstairs; she wanted to stay alone 
and watch over her child. Then, watching her sleep, what remained 
of her imeasiness was dissipated by degrees, and she came to the 
conclusion that she had been very silly and very kind to have be¬ 
come so distressed just now over so minor a matter. Berthe, indeed, 
was no longer sobbing. Her breathing now barely stirred the cotton 

106 



coverlet. Big tears stood at the comers of her half-closed eyelids, 
which revealed between tl|e lashes pale sunken pupils; the bandage, 
stuck to her cheek, pulled the stretched skin up at an angle. 

“It’s a strange thing, how ugly that child isl” Emma thought. 

At eleven o’clock when Charles returned from the pharmacy, 
where he had gone after dinner to rettim the remains of the 
diachylum, he found his wife standing beside the cradle. 

“Now, I’ve told you that it’s nothing,” he said, kissing her fore¬ 
head. “Don’t upset yourself, poor darling, you’ll make yourself sick.” 

He had stayed late at the apothecary’s. “I have something to say 
to you,” he had whispered to the clerk, who walked downstairs 
ahead of him. 

“Can it be that he suspects some thin g?” L4on wondered. His 
heart thudded and he became lost in conjecture. 

At last Charles, having closed the door, requested him to find 
out, himself, in Rouen what the price might be of a good daguerreo¬ 
type; it was a sentimental surprise he was preparing for his wife, 
a delicate attention, his portrait in a black suit. But he wanted first 
“to know what to expect”; this commission should not inconvenience 
Monsieur Leon, since he went to the city almost every week. 

With what object? Homais suspected some sort of “wild oats,” a 
love a£Eair. But he was mistaken; L6on was not pursuing any lady¬ 
love. He was more melancholy than ever, and Madame Lefran^ois 
was made well aware of it by the quantity of food he left on his 
plate these days. To find out more about it, she questioned the tax- 
collector; Binet replied in a haughty tone that he was not “in the 
pay of the police.” 

His companion, nevertheless, seemed to him to be behaving very 
oddly; for often Leon would throw himself back in his chair, flinging 
out his arms and complaining in vague terms of his existence. 

“It’s because you don’t take enough recreation,” the tax-collector 
said. 

“What sort?” 

“Well, if I were you, I’d get a lathe.” 

“But I don’t know how to turn on a lathe,” the clerk said. 

“Oh, that’s sol” the other said, caressing his jaw with an air of 
mingled disdain and satisfaction. 

L6on was weary of loving without result; then, too, he was 

107 

■P 


2^,1. i y 







beginning to feel that sense of discouragement caused by the con¬ 
stant repetition of the same life when no interest directs it and 
no hope sustains it. He was so bored with Yonville and the people 
of Yonville that the sight of certain persons, certain houses, irri¬ 
tated him beyond endurance. At length he wrote his mother a long 
detailed letter in which he explained his reasons for going im¬ 
mediately to live in Paris. She gave her consent. 

He did not hurry. Every day for an entire month Hivert trans¬ 
ported for him from Yonville to Rouen, from Rouen to Yonville, 
trunks, suitcases, parcels; and when Leon had replenished his ward¬ 
robe, had his three armchairs reupholstered, bought a supply of silk 
handkerchiefs, made, in a word, more preparations than for a trip 
around the world, he postponed his departure from week to week 
until he received a second maternal letter urging him to leave, 
since he so desired, before the vacations, in order to take his ex¬ 
amination. 

When the moment for the final embraces came, Madame Homais 
wept; Justin sobbed; Homais, as a strong man, concealed his emo¬ 
tion; he insisted upon carrying his friend's greatcoat, himself, to 
the gate of the lawyer, who was taking L6on to Rouen in his 
carriage. L6on had just time to say good-by to Monsieur Bovary. 

When he had reached the top of the staircase he paused, so 
breathless did he feel. At his entrance Madame Bovary sprang up 
quickly. 

“It’s me againl” Leon said. 

“I was sure of it!” 

She bit her lips and a tide of blood flooded up under her skin 
which flushed deep pink from the roots of her hair to the edge 
of her collar. She remained standing, one shoulder leaning against 
the woodwork. 

“Monsieur isn’t at home?” he asked. 

“He is out.” 

She repeated: “He is out.” 

There was a silence, then. They looked at one another; and 
their thoughts, mingling in an identical torment, were as if locked 
in an intimate embrace, like two pulsing bosoms. 

“I’d like to kiss Berthe good-by,” L6on said. 

Emma went down a few stairs and called F61icit6. 

108 



He cast an all-embracing glance about him, which lingered over 
the walls, the shelves, the hearth as if to penetrate every object 
and carry it away vidth him. 

But she returned, and the servant brought Berthe, who was 
waving a toy windmill upside down on the end of a string. 

Leon kissed her neck several times. 

“Good-by, poor child, good-by dear little girll Good-byl” 

He restored her to her mother. 

“Take her away,” she said to Felicity. 

They were left alone. 

Madame Bovary, her back turned, had her face pressed to a 
windowpane; Leon was holding his cap in his hand and kept 
striking it gently against his thigh. 

“It’s going to rain,” Emma said. 

“I have an overcoat,” he said. 

“Ah!” 

She turned away again, her chin lowered and her forehead 
advanced. The light glimmered over it as over marble, to the curve 
of the eyebrows, without revealing what Emma was watching on 
the horizon nor what she was thinking within herself. 

“Well then, good-by!” he sighed. 

She raised her head with an abrupt motion: 

“Yes, good-by ... Go now.” 

They moved toward one another: he held out his hand, she 
hesitated. 

“In the English fashion, then,” she said, forcing herself to laugh, 
and giving him her hand. 

L6on felt it between his fingers, and the very substance of all his 
being seemed to him to be distilled into that moist palm. 

Then he opened his hand; their eyes met once more, and he was 
gone. 

When he reached the market he paused and hid behind a pillar 
to gaze one last time at that white house with its four green shut¬ 
ters. He thought he saw a shadow behind the window in the 
bedroom; but the curtain, coming loose from its fastening as if of 
itself, slowly moved in long oblique folds which suddenly straight¬ 
ened out altogether, and then it hung straight, more motionless 
than a plaster -wall. L4on began to run. 

109 



next day was a dismal one 
for Emma. Everything seemed to her to be 
swathed in a black miasma that drifted confusedly across 
the surfaces of objects, and sorrow rushed into her spirit with soft 
moaning sounds, like the winter wind in a deserted castle. It was 
the sort of reverie one indulges in upon what will never come again, 
the lassitude that overcomes one after each task accomplished, that 
pain, in fact, which the interruption of any accustomed procedure 
causes one, the abrupt cessation of a prolonged vibration. 

As upon her return from La Vaubyessard with the quadrilles 
still eddying through her head, she was assailed by a dreary 
melancholy, a numb despair. L6on reappeared, taller, more hand¬ 
some, more polished, more indistinct; although he was parted from 
her he had not left her, he was here, and ihe walls of the house 
seemed to retain his shadow. She could not tear her eyes away 
from this carpet where he had walked, these empty chairs in which 
he had sat 

The river still flowed past, and idly pushed its little waves 
along the slippery bank. They had walked there many times, to 
that same murmur of ripples, over moss-covered stones. What 
good days of sunlight they had had! What good afternoons, alone 
in the shadows at the end of the gardenl He used to read aloud, 
sitting bare-headed on a rustic wooden bench; the cool prairie 
wind would flutter die pages of the book and the honeysuckle blos¬ 
soms of the arbor . . . Ah, he was gone, the one charm of her life, 
the one possible hope of felicityl Why had she not grasped that 
happiness when it was offered? Why not have held him back with 
both hands, on her knees, when he wished to go? And she cursed 
herself for not having given her love to L6on; she was thirsty for 
his lips. A desire seized her to run to him, fling herself into his 

110 



arms, say to him: "I am here; I am yoursl"’ But Emma became 
embarrassed in advance over the difficulties of such an enterprise, 
and her desires, aggravated by regret, became only the more 
ardent. 

From that time on this memory of Leon was a sort of focal point 
for her boredom; and the most distant memories as well as the 
most immediate events, what she had experienced and what she had 
imagined, her frustrated desires for physical gratification, her 
projects for happiness which crackled like dead branches in the 
wind, her sterile virtue, her fallen hopes, her marriage bed, she 
gathered up all, accepted all, made all serve to warm her sorrow. 

Nevertheless, the flames died down, whether because her inner 
resources became exhausted or because too much fuel had been 
heaped upon them. Little by little love was extinguished by ab¬ 
sence, regret smothered by habit; and that fiery glow which had 
washed her pale skies with purple sank away into shadow and was 
gradually obliterated. In the lethargic state of her consciousness, 
she even mistook repugnance toward her husband for a yearning 
for a lover, the scaldings of hatred for the rekindling of tenderness; 
but as the hurricane continued to blow and as passion was con¬ 
sumed to ashes, and as no help came, no sunlight broke through, 
on all sides lay black night, and she remained lost in a terrible 
cold which spread all through her. 

Then the bad days of Tostes began again. She considered herself 
far more wretched now, for she was experiencing grief in the cer¬ 
tainty that there would be no end to it. 

A woman who had imposed such great sacrifices upon herself 
could surely take comfort from indulging whims. She bought herself 
a Gothic prie-dieu, in one month she spent fourteen francs for 
lemons to whiten her fingernails; she wrote to Rouen to order blue 
cashmere for a dress; she selected the most beautiful of the scarves 
in Lheureux’ shop; she would tie it about her waist over her dress¬ 
ing-gown and, with the blinds closed and a book in her hand, she 
would lie stretched out on a couch in this costume. 

She frequently changed the fashion in which she dressed her 
hair: she did it in Chinese style, in soft curls, in neat braids; she 
parted it on the side and turned the ends \mder like a man’s. 

She took a notion to learn Italian: she bought dictionaries, a 

111 



grammar, a supply of white paper. She tried serious reading, his¬ 
tory and philosophy. Sometimes at night Charles awoke with a 
start, think ing that someone had come to fetch him for a patient: 

“Fm comingl” he would mumble. 

And it would be the sound of a match Emma was striking in 
order to relight the lamp. But it was with her reading as with 
her pieces of needlework which, half-finished, cluttered her chest 
of drawers; she would take them up, abandon them, go on to 
others. 

She had moments of unrestraint when she could easily have been 
incited to recklessness. One day she maintained, in opposition to 
her husband, that she could drink a full half-tumbler of brandy 
and, as Charles was foolish enough to defy her to do it, she swal¬ 
lowed the brandy to the last drop. 

In spite of her giddy airs (as the women of Yonville described 
them), Emma still did not seem happy, and habitually wore at the 
comers of her mouth that immobile contraction which creases the 
faces of elderly spinsters and of those disappointed in their ambi¬ 
tions. She was utterly pale, white as linen; the skin of her nose was 
drawn toward the nostrils, her eyes gazed at one with a vague 
expression. Having discovered three gray hairs at her temples, she 
spoke of how she was growing old. 

Often fainting spells overcame her. One day she even spat blood, 
and as Charles hastened to her, showing his concern: 

"Oh, nonsensel” she said. “What's the difference?” 

Charles went to take refuge in his office; and he wept, seated in 
his desk chair beneath the phrenological chart, with his elbows on 
the table. 

Then he wrote to his mother, asking her to come, and they had 
long conferences together about Emma. 

What was the solution? What was to be done, since she refused 
any treatment? 

“Do you know what your wife needs?” the elder Madame Bovary 
said. “Forced occupation, manual laborl If she were forced to earn 
her own living, like so many others, she wouldn't have these vapors, 
which come of a lot of notions she's got into her head, and of the 
idleness she lives in.” 

“Still, she keeps busy,” Charles said, 

112 



“Oh, she keeps busyl Doing what? Reading novels, bad books, 
works that are against religion and in which the authors make fun 
of priests with quotations from Voltaire. But all that sort of thing 
goes a long way, my poor boy, and anyone who has no religion 
always turns out badly.” 

So it was decided that Emma was to be prevented from reading 
any more novels. The undertaking did not seem an easy one. The 
good woman undertook to see to it herself; she would, when she 
passed through Rouen, go in person to the circulating library and 
give notice that Emma was terminating her subscription. Would 
they not have the right to notify the police, if the library persisted 
just the same in its faculty as poisoner? 

The farewells of the mother-in-law and daughter-in-law were 
short. During the three weeks they had been left together they had 
not exchanged four words, aside from inquiries and formal phrases 
when they met at table or before going to bed. 

Madame Bovary left on a Wednesday, which was market day in 
Yonville. 

Emma was leaning on her elbows at her window (she sat there 
often: in the provinces, the window takes the place of theaters and 
promenades), and she was amusing herself watching the noisy 
multitude of rustics when she caught sight of a gentleman dressed 
in a green velvet coat. He had yellow gloves on his hands, although 
he was wearing heavy gaiters; and he was making his way toward 
the doctor's house, followed by a peasant walking with lowered head 
and a look of being plunged in thought. 

“May I see the doctor?” he asked Justin, who was chatting with 
F61icit6 on the doorstep. 

And, taking him for the servant of the house: 

“Tell him that Monsieur Rodolphe Boulanger of La Huchette is 
here.” 

It was not out of property vanity that the new arrival had added 
the explanatory phrase to his name, but in order to introduce him¬ 
self more acciurately. La Huchette, as a matter of fact, was an estate 
near Yonville, the chUteau of which he had just acquired, along 
with two farms that he cultivated himself without, however, going 
to too much trouble. 

Charles came into the sitting room. Monsieur Boulanger intro- 

113 



duced his man, who wanted to be bled because he felt ants crawl¬ 
ing aU over his body.” 

“That will purge me ” he kept insisting in the face of all argu¬ 
ments. 

Bovary, therefore, brought a band and a basin and asked Justin 
to hold it. Then, addressing the already blanched villager: 

“Don't be afraid, my good fellow.” 

“No, no,” the other answered. “Go right ahead,” 

And with a swaggering air he held out his thick arm. At the 
prick of the lancet the blood spurted and splattered against the 

mirror. 

“Hold the basin closerl” Charles exclaimed. 

“Damn!” the peasant said. “You’d swear it was a Httle fountain 
running. What red blood I’ve got! That should be a good sign, 
isn’t it?” 

“Sometimes,” the physician said, “the patient doesn’t feel any¬ 
thing at first, then faintness sets in, more particularly with husky 
people like this man.” 

At these words the farmer dropped the small box he was turning 
between his fingers. A sudden jerk of his shoulders made the back 
of the chair creak. His hat fell to the floor. 

‘T was expecting thaC Bovary said, applying his finger to the 

vein. 

The basin began to tremble in Justin’s bands; his knees wobbled, 
he turned pale. 

“My wife! My wife!” Charles called. 

Instantly she ran downstairs. 

“Vinegar!” he cried. “Oh, Lord, two at once!” 

And in his emotion he was barely able to apply the compress. 
“It’s nothing,” Monsieur Boulanger said with the utmost tran- 

quilhty, taking Justin imder the arms. 

And he seated him on the table, propping his back against the 

wall. 

Madame Bovary began to remove his cravat He had a knot in 
the strings of his shirt; she took several minutes, moving her light 
fingers at the young boy’s neck; then she poured a little vinegar on 
her batiste handkerchief; she dampened his temples with it in little 
pats and she blew on it, delicately. 

114 



The plowman recovered consciousness; but Justin’s syncope con¬ 
tinued, and his pupils disappeared up under the pale siurounding 
membranes, like blue flowers in milk. 

“We should hide that from him,” Charles said. 

Madame Bovary took the basin, to put it under the table; in the 
motion she made as she bent over, her dress (a summer dress with 
four flounces, yellow, long-waisted, fuU-skirted), swept out about 
her on the stone floor of the sitting room; and as Emma, crouching 
down, wavered a little in stretching out her arms, the puffs of mate¬ 
rial sank in here and there, with the swaying of her body. 

When Justin had left, pulling his clothes back on, they talked a 
little about faints. Madame Bovary had never experienced one. 

“That’s extraordinary for a lady!” Monsieur Boulanger said. “On 
the other hand, there are many very sensitive men. For instance, 
at a duel once, I saw one of the seconds lose consciousness just from 
hearing the pistols loaded.” 

Meanwhile Monsieur Boulanger dismissed his hired man, urging 
him to set his mind at rest now that his whim had been attended to. 

“It brought me the pleasure of making your acquaintance,” he 
added. And he looked at Emma as he spoke. 

Then he laid three francs on the comer of the table, bowed 
casually and went out. 

He was soon on the other side of the river (this was his road back 
to La Huchette): and Emma caught sight of him on the prairie, 
walking beneath the poplars, slowing his steps from time to time 
Like someone who is meditating. 

“She is very attractive!” he was thinkin g. “She is very attractive, 
that doctor’s wife. Fine teeth, black eyes, a pretty foot and dressed 
like a Parisian woman. Where the devil does she come from? Where 
in the world did he find her, that fellow?” 

Monsieur Rodolphe Boulanger was thirty-four years old; he was 
cynical in temperament and keen of intellect, having in addition 
been much in the company of women and being thoroughly expe- \ 
rienced with them. This one had seemed pretty to him; so he mused 
about her and about her husband. 

“I think he is very stupid. She’s undoubtedly tired of him. He 
has dirty fingernails and a three-day beard. While he’s trotting 
about to his patients, she stays home darning socks. And she is 

115 



bored, she’d like to live in the city, dance the polka every evening! 
Poor little thing. She’s gaping for love like a carp on the kitchen 
table for water. After three gallant remarks she’d adore you, I’m 
sure of it! It would be lovely, charming . . . Yes, but how to get rid 
of her afterwards?” 

Then the disadvantages of pleasure, glimpsed in anticipation, 
made him, by force of contrast, think of his mistress. She was an 
actress whom he kept, in Rouen; and, when he had lingered over 
this image with which, even in memory, he was surfeited: 

“Ah, Madame Bovary is much prettier,” he thought, “and above 
all, fresher. Virginie is beginning to get decidedly too fat. She’s 
so tiresome about her pleasures. And besides, what a mama for 
shrimp!” 

The countryside was deserted, and Rodolphe heard about him 
only the rhythmic whisper of grasses brushed by his boots and the 
distant shrilling of crickets lying close under the oat-stalks; he was 
reenvisioning Emma in the sitting room, dressed as he had seen 
her, and he was stripping ofi her garments. 

“Oh, I shall have her!” he cried, smashing a lump of earth in 

front of him with one blow of his stick. 

And at once he fell to studying the strategic aspect of the under¬ 
taking. He wondered: 

‘Where shall we meet? And how? We’ll have the brat on our 
hands all the time, and the maid, the neighbors, the husband, all 
sorts of annoying problems. Oh, rubbish! he said. Its too much 
of a waste of time.” 

Then he began again: 

“It’s because she has eyes that bore into your heart like gimlets. 
And that pale coloring! ... I who adore pale women!” 

By the top of the Argueil hill he had come to his decision. 

“All that’s left to do is find opportunities. Well, then. I’ll call on 
them a few times. I’ll send them some game, some fowl; I’ll have 
myself bled if necessary; we will become friends. I’ll invite them 
to visit me.. .. Oh, by jove!” he added, “the Agricultural Exposition 
is coming soon; she will be there. I’ll see her. That’s the time to begin, 
and boldly, for that is the surest way.” 


116 





came, indeed, that much- 
publicized Exposition! Early on the morning 
of that solemn occasion all the inhabitants, on their door¬ 
steps, were discussing the preparations; the pediment of the town 
hall had been wreathed with garlands of ivy; a tent had been set 
up in a meadow for the festivities and, in the center of the square, 
in front of the church, a sort of bomb-throwing device was to 
greet the arrival of Monsieur le Pr^fet and the names of the prize¬ 
winning farmers. The National Guard from Buchy (there was none in 
Yonville) had come to swell the ranks of the firemen, of whom 
Binet was the chief. That day he was wearing a collar even higher 
than usual; and, belted into his tunic, his torso was so rigid and 
immobile that all the vital part of his organism seemed to have 
descended into his two legs, which rose in cadence, in one single 
movement, at a smart pace. As rivalry flourished between the tax- 
collector and the colonel, both were putting their men through 
their drill, at one side, to show off their prowess. 

Never had there been such a display of pomp! Many of the 
citizens had washed down their houses the evening before; tricol¬ 
ored flags hung at half-open windows; all the taverns were 
crowded; and, in that brilliant weather, the starched bonnets, the 
gold crosses and colored fichus looked whiter than snow, reflected 
the clear sunlight and relieved with occasional splashes of color 
the somber monotony of dark coats and blue jackets. 

The throng poured into the main street from both ends of the 
town. It overflowed out of side streets, paths and houses, and from 
time to time one heard doors slam shut behind women in lace 
gloves, sallying forth to see the festivities. But the jubilation which 
brightened every face seemed to depress Madame Lefran 9 ois, hostess 
of the inn. Standing on her kitchen steps she kept muttering: 

117 



“What nonsense! What nonsense witli their canvas shack! Do 
they think the prefect will be perfectly comfortable, eating his din¬ 
ner out there in a tent, like a circus clown?*" 

The apothecary passed. He had on a black coat, nankeen 
breeches, beaver shoes and, as an extraordinary gesture, a hat—a 
low-crowned hat. 

“Your servant!’* he said. “Excuse me, Tm in a hurry.” 

“Oh, you’re going over there?” she said with an air of disdain. 

“Yes, I’m going,” the apothecary answered, astonished; “am I not 
one of the advisory committee?” 

The widow Lefran^ois gazed at him for a few moments, and at 
length answered, smiling: 

“That does make a difference. But what has farming got to do 
with you? Do you know anything about it?” 

“Certainly I know something about it, since I’m a pharmacist, 
that is to say, a chemist. And chemistry, Madame Lefran 9 ois, hav¬ 
ing as its object the understanding of the reciprocal and molecular 
action of all the elements in nature, it follows that agriculture 
should be included in its domain.” 

The hostess did not once take her eyes from the door of the Caf6 
Fran^ais and the pharmacist continued: 

“If only God would make chemists of our farmers, or at least if 
they would listen to the advice of science! I, for instance, have 
recently vsnritten a little opus, a monograph of more than seventy- 
two pages, entided: On Cider, Its Manufacture and Its Effects, 
followed by a Few New Observations upon the Subject, which I 
sent to the Agricultural Society of Rouen; which earned me the 
honor of being included among its members, in the agriculture 
division, apple-study section. Well now, if my work had been made 
available to the public . . .” 

But the apothecary paused, Madame Lefrangois seemed so pre¬ 
occupied. 

“Look at them!” she said. “Its impossible to understand. A low 
tavern like that!” 

And, Avith shrugs of her shoulders that stretched the stitches of 
her sweater across her bosom she gestured with both hands toward 
her rival’s restaurant, from which the sound of singing was now 
issuing. 


118 



“Furthermore, he wont last long,” she added. “Before a week's 
out, it will all be over.” 

Homais fell back with amazement. She came down her three 
steps and, speaking into his ear; 

“What, you didn’t know that? They're going to attach his prop¬ 
erty this week. It’s Lheureux who’s making him sell out. He has 
ruined him with notes.” 

“What an appalling catastrophe!” cried the apothecary, who 
always had fitting expressions for every imaginable set of circum¬ 
stances. 

The hostess then began to tell him the story, which she had 
through Theodore, Monsieur Guillaumin’s servant, and much as 
she detested Tellier, she censured Lheureux. He was an inveigler, 
a sneak. 

“Oh, look,” she said, “there he is, over at the market: he’s speaking 
to Madame Bovary, who is wearing a green hat! She’s on Bou¬ 
langer’s arm, too.” 

“Madame Bovary!” Homais said, “I must hurry over and pay my 
respects. Perhaps she’d be pleased to have a seat inside the inclos¬ 
ure, under the peristyle.” 

And, without listening to Madame Lefran 9 ois, who was calling 
him back to tell him her story at greater length, the pharmacist moved 
off at a rapid pace, a smile on his face and his legs strutting, dis¬ 
tributing many salutations to right and to left and taking up a large 
amount of space with the ample tails of his black coat, which 
floated in the breeze behind him . 

Rodolphe, having caught sight of him from afar, had taken to a 
more rapid gait; but Madame Bovary got out of breath; so he 
slowed and said to her, smihng, in a cynical tone: 

“It’s just to avoid that coarse man; you know, the apothecary.” 

She nudged him with her elbow. 

What does that mean? he wondered. And he studied her out of 
the comer of his eye as they continued to walk. 

Her profile was so placid that one could discover nothing from 
it. It stood out in the full daylight, within the oval of her hood 
with its pale ribbons like the leaves of rushes. Her eyes with their 
long upturned lashes gazed straight ahead of her and, although 
fully open, they seemed somewhat narrowed by the cheeks, because 

119 



of the blood that pulsed gently below her delicate skin. A rosy 
flush crossed the bridge of her nose. She carried her head tipped 
toward her shoulder, and one could see between her lips the trans¬ 
lucent edges of her white teeth. 

“Is she making fun of me?'' Rodolphe wondered. 

This gesture on Emma’s part seemed, however, to have been no 
more than a warning; for Monsieur Lheureux was walking with 
them, speaking to them from time to time as if in an attempt to 
enter into conversation. 

“A superb dayl Everybody is out! The wind is in the east.” 

And Madame Bovary made him no more answer than did Ro¬ 
dolphe, while at the least motion they made he drew closer, saying, 
‘T beg your pardon?” and raising his hand to his hat. 

When they were in front of the marshal’s house, rather than fol¬ 
lowing the road as far as the barrier, Rodolphe turned off abruptly 
into a path, drawing Madame Bovary with him; he called out: 

“Good-by, Monsieur Lheureux! We’ll see you later.” 

“How you sent him about his business!” she said laughing. 

‘Why let other people force themselves on me?” he returned. 
“And since I’m fortunate enough to be with you, today . . 

Emma blushed. He did not finish his sentence. Then he spoke of 
the fine weather and the pleasure of strolling over grass. A few 
daisies were in bloom. 

“Here are some pretty Easter-flowers,” he said, “they make 
oracles for all country lovers.” 

He added: 

“Shall I pick some? What do you think?” 

“Are you in love?” she asked, coughing a little. 

“Oh, well, who knows?” Rodolphe answered. 

But it was time for the judging, and the fanners, one by one, 
were filing into a sort of amphitheater formed by a long rope run¬ 
ning between sticks. Cattle were there, their noses pointing toward 
the rope, making an irregular line with their uneven rumps; sloth¬ 
ful hogs rooted in the earth with their snouts; calves bawled; sheep 
bleated. Bare-armed plowmen clung to the bridles of prancing 
stallions which were whinnying, wide-nostriled, in the direction of 
the mares. The mares stood quietly, heads and tails drooping, while 
their foals rested in their shadow or came occasionally to suck. 

120 



Meanwhile, between the two rows, gentlemen were walking for¬ 
ward at a ponderous gait, examining each animal, then consulting 
together in low voices. One of them, who seemed to be the most 
important, took notes in a notebook as he walked. He was the 
president of the judging committee: Monsieur Derozerays of La 
Panville. The moment he recognized Rodolphe he came forward 
eagerly and said, smiling amiably: 

"How*s this. Monsieur Boulanger, you*re deserting us?*" 

Rodolphe protested that he was going to come. But when the 
president had disappeared: 

“My Lord, no,” he said, “Tm not going: your company is more 
to my taste than his.” 

And, mocking the exposition all the while, he showed the guard 
his blue visitor’s pass in order to move about more freely, and even 
paused occasionally before some handsome “specimen” which 
Madame Bovary did not admire in the least. He noticed this, and 
then began to make jokes about the Yonville ladies, their costumes; 
then he made his excuses for the carelessness of his own. 

“Besides,” he added, “when one lives in the country . . 

“Everything is a waste of effort,” Emma said. 

“That’s truel” Rodolphe replied. “To think that not one single one 
of these fine fellows is capable of even appreciating the cut of a 
suitl” 

Then they talked about provincial mediocrity, of the existences 
stifled by it, illusions lost in it. 

“So,” Rodolphe said, “I sink deeper and deeper into melan¬ 
choly . , ” 

“You!” she exclaimed with astonishment. “But I thought you were 
very gay.” 

“Oh, yes, in appearance, because in the midst of a group I can 
put a jester s mask on my face; and yet how many times, at sight of 
a cemetery in the moonlight. I’ve wondered if I wouldn’t be better 
off going to join those who have nothing to do but sleep . . .” 

“Oh? And your friends?” she said. “You don’t think about them?” 

“My friends? Who are they? Have I any? Who bothers about 
me?” 

And he accompanied these last words with a sort of whistling 
breath between his lips. 


121 



But they were obliged to separate from one another because of 
a great structure of piled chairs which a man was carrying behind 
tliem. Madame Bovary again took Rodolphe*s arm; he continued 
as if speaking to himself: 

“Yes, iVe missed so muchl Always alone. Ah, if I had had an aim 
in life, if I could have found affection, if I had discovered some¬ 
one . . . Oh, how I should have poured out all the energy of 
which Tm capable, I should have overcome everything, broken 
down everythin gl’' 

“Just the same, it seems to me that youre not to be pitied in 

the least,” Emma said. 

“Oh, you think so?” Rodolphe said. 

“Because after all . . she went on, “you are free.” 

She hesitated. “Rich.” 

“Don’t make fun of me,” he said. 

And she was swearing that she had not been making fun when 
a cannon shot resounded; at once everyone pushed pellmell toward 

the village. 

At length, at the end of the square, a big hired coach appeared, 
drawn by two lean horses which a driver in a white hat lashed by 
turns with his whip. Binet had just time to shout: Atw; armssr and 
the colonel to echo him . . . There was a rush toward the stacked 
arms. And, after a shoulder-arms during which the clank of mus¬ 
ket-slings traveling down the line sounded like a copper kettle 
rolling downstairs, all the firearms were grounded. 

Then a man was seen descending from the coach, dressed in a 
black coat with silver braid, bald in front, wearing a tuft of hair 
at the back, with a sallow complexion and a most benignant ex¬ 
pression. His eyes, very large and heavy-lidded, were half closed to 
gaze at the throng, as he lifted his pointed nose and made his 
sunken mouth smile. He recognized the mayor by his sash and in¬ 
formed him that Monsieur le Pr4fet had b^n imable to come. He, 
himself, was a member of the prefectoral council; then he added 
a few apologies. Tuvache answered with courteous remarks, the 
other confessed his embarrassment; and they remained'so, face to 
face and their foreheads almost touching, with the members of the 
judging committee, the municipal council, the prominent citizens, 
the National Guard and the crowd all about them. 

122 



Meanwhile Rodolphe, with Madame Bovary, had gone up to the 
first floor of the town hall, into the council chamber, and as it was 
empty he had declared that this would be a good place for enjoy¬ 
ing the spectacle more comfortably. He took three stools from 
around the oval table beneath the bust of the King, and, having 
brought them over to the window, they sat down side by side. 

There was agitation on the platform, long whispered consulta¬ 
tions, conferences. At length Monsieur ie Conseiller arose. It was 
now known that his name was Lieuvain, and his name was re¬ 
peated from one mouth to another through the crowd. When he 
had collected a few papers and held them above his eyes in order 
to see better, he began: 

“Gentlemen: 

“First permit me (before speaking to you of the object of today’s 
gathering, and this sentiment will, I am sure, be shared by you 
all), permit me, I say, to render justice to the higher administra¬ 
tion, to the government, to the monarch, gentlemen, to our sov¬ 
ereign, to that beloved King to whom no branch of public or 
private prosperity is indifferent, and who guides the chariot of State - 
among the incessant perils of a stormy sea with a hand at once so 
firm and so wise, respecting peace as well as war, industry, com¬ 
merce, agricultiure and the arts.” 

“I ought to move back a Httle,” Rodolphe said. 

“Why?” Emma said. ^ 

But just then the councilor's voice rose to an extraordinary note; 
he was declaiming: 

“The time is no longer, gentlemen, when civil discord bloodied 
our public squares, when the householder, the lawyer, even the , 
laborer, falling into a peaceful sleep at night, trembled for fear of j 
being suddenly awakened by the sound of fire alarms, when the ' 
most subversive maxims audaciously gnawed at the foundations ...” 

“Because I might be seen from below,” Rodolphe said. “Then 
for the next two weeks I should have to make apologies, and with 
my bad reputation . . 

“Oh, you’re slandering yourselfl” Emm a said. 

“No, no, it’s abominable, I swear it is.” 

m 



"But, gentlemen,” the councilor continued, “if, banishing from 
my memory these gloomy pictures, I rest my eyes once more upon 
the present condition of our fair country: what do I see? Every¬ 
where commerce and the arts are flourishing; everywhere new lines 
of communication, like so many new blood vessels in the body of 
the State, are establishing new relationships; our great manufactur¬ 
ing centers have resumed their activity; religion, more firmly 
planted, smiles into all hearts; our ports are full, confidence is 
reborn, and at last France breathes again! . . 

“Besides,” Rodolphe added, “perhaps there is a reason for it, 
from the world’s point of view.” 

"How do you mean?” she said. 

“Well,” he said, "don’t you know that there are souls forever in 
torment? They must have alternate dream and action, the purest 
passions and the most violent satisfactions, and that way one stum¬ 
bles into all sorts of whims, of foUies.” 

She gazed at him then as one stares at a traveler who has 
journeyed through extraordinary lands, and said: 

"We haven’t even that source of distraction, we poor women!” 

“A sorry distraction, for one doesn’t find happiness in it.” 

"But does one ever find it?” she asked. 

“Yes, it comes some day,” be answered. 

“And that is the thing you have understood,” the councilor was 
saying. “You, farmers and country laborers; you, peaceful pioneers 
of a wholly civilized work; you, men of progress and morality! You 
have understood, I say, that political storms are truly even more 
dreadful than atmospheric disturbances . . 

“It comes some day,” Rodolphe repeated, “some day, all of a 
sudden, when one despairs of it. Then the horizons roll open, it’s 
like a voice crying 'Here it isl’ You feel a need to confide your life 
to that person, to give her everything, sacrifice everything to her! 
You don’t need to explain to one another, you know by intuition. 
You’ve seen each other in dreams. [And he gazed at her.] At last, 
there it is, the treasure you’ve searched for so long, there, in front 
of you; it shines, it sparkles. Yet you still doubt, you don’t dare 

124 



believe in it; you go on being dazzled by it, like someone coming 
out of the shadows into the light.” 

And as he finished speaking, Rodolphe added pantomime to the 
words, he passed his hand over his face like a man seized with a 
dizzy spell! then he let it fall upon Emma*s, She drew hers away. 
But the councilor was still reading: 

“And who should be astonished at that, gentlemen? Only he 
who is blind enough, deep enough (I am not afraid to say it) deep 
enough in the prejudices of another age and to the 

maintenance of the State, the fruit of respect for law and the ful¬ 
fillment of duty . . 

“That again!” Rodolphe said. “Always duty, I’m bored to death 
with words like that. They’re a lot of old imbeciles in flannel vests, 
and hypocrites in foot-warmers and rosaries who are forever chant¬ 
ing ‘Duty, duty!’ in our ears. Well, Lord, duty is feeling what is 
great, cherishing what is beautiful, and not accepting all the con¬ 
ventions of society, along with the ignominies it imposes on us.” 

“Still . . . still . . Madame Bovary objected. 

“No, no! Why prate against the passions? Aren’t they the only 
beautiful things on earth, the source of heroism, of enthusiasm, of 
poetry, music, art, in fact of everything?” 

i “But surely you have to pay some attention to the world’s opinion 
&amp;nd obey its moral code,” Emma said. 

' “Ah, but there are two,” he answered. “The small, conventional 
man-made one, the one that’s continually changing and that bawls 
so loudly, stirs up a commotion lower down, close to the earth, 
like that assembly of imbeciles you see out there. But the other, 
the eternal one is all about and above, like the countryside that 
surrounds us and the blue sky that gives us light.” 

Monsieur Lieuvain had just wiped his mouth with his handker¬ 
chief. He went on: 

“And who am I, gentlemen, to point out to you here the useful¬ 
ness of agriculture? For who is it that supplies us with the necessi¬ 
ties of life? Who provides our nourishment? Is it not the farmer? 
The farmer, gentlemen, who, sowing the fruitful furrows of the 
fields with industrious hands . . 

125 



Rodolphe had drawn closer to Emma, and he said in a low voice, 
speaking rapidly: 

“Doesn’t this conspiracy on the part of the world revolt you? Is 
there a single sentiment which it does not condemn? The most 
noble instincts, the purest sympathies are persecuted, slandered, 
and if two poor souls should finally come together, everything is 
organized to prevent them from uniting. Still, they try, they beat 
their wings, they call out to one another. Oh, no matter what 
happens, sooner or later, in six months, ten years, they will be 
united, they will love one another, because fate wills it and be¬ 
cause they were bom for each other.” 

He had his arms crossed upon his knees and thus, raising his face 
to Emma, he gazed at her fixedly, from very close. She noticed 
small gold streaks in his eyes, radiating out all around his black 
pupils, and she even caught the odor of the pomade that glistened 
on his hair. Languor overcame her then, she remembered the 
viscount who had taught her to waltz at La Vaubyessard and 
whose beard, like this hair, had given off that scent of vanilla and 
lemon; and, automatically, she half closed her eyelids, the better to 
breathe it in. But as she made this geshne, leaning back in her 
chair, she caught sight of the old diligence, the Hirondelle, in the 
distance, far out on the horizon, slowly moving down the slope of 
tile Leux, trailing behind it a long plume of dust. It was in that 
yellow coach tliat Leon had so often returned to her; and by that 
same road that he had gone forever! She seemed to see him op¬ 
posite her, in his window, then everything became confused, clouds 
swirled about her; it seemed to her that she was circling again in 
the waltz, imder the blaze of cut glass chandeliers, in the viscount s 
arms, and that Leon was not far away, that he was going to come 
. . . and yet she still was breathing the scent of Rodolphe's po¬ 
made beside her. So the pleasure of this sensation mingled with her 
desires of other days and, like grains of sand xmder a gust of wind, 
they seethed in the subtle emanations of the perfume which was 
diffused through her spirit. She widened her nostrils several times, 
vigorously, to draw in the fragrance of the ivy around the columns. 
She drew off her gloves and dried her palms; then, with her hand¬ 
kerchief, she fanned her face, while through the pounding of her 

126 



temples she heard the murmur of the crowd and the voice of the 
councilor chanting his phrases. 

He was saying: 

“Continuel Perseverel Listen neither to the suggestions of estab¬ 
lished routine nor to the overhasty counsels of a reckless empirism! 
Concentrate above all upon the improvement of soil, upon good 
feeds, upon the development of equine, bovine, ovine and porcine 
strains! Let these agricultural expositions be for you like pacific 
arenas where the victor, as he leaves, will hold out his hand to the 
vanquished and fraternize with him in the hope of a better suc- 
cessl And you, ancient servants, humble servitors whose painful 
labors no government up to this day has taken into consideration, 
come and receive the reward of your mute virtures, and be con¬ 
vinced that the State, henceforth, has its eyes fixed on you, that it 
is encouraging you, that it is protecting you, that it will render jus¬ 
tice to your righteous claims and lighten, so far as is in its power, 
the burden of your painful sacrificesr 


Monsieur Lieuvain then sat down; Monsieur Derozerays rose, em¬ 
barking upon another speech. Rodolphe, with Madame Bovary, 
talked of dreams, presentiments, magnetism. From magnetism Ro¬ 
dolphe gradually arrived at affinities and, while Monsieur le Presi¬ 
dent was citing Cincinnatus at hLs plow, Diocletian planting his • 
cabbages and the Chinese emperors inaugurating the year with 
days of sowing, the young man was explaining to the yoxmg 
woman that those irresistible attractions had their origins in some 
previous existence. 

“Take us,'" he said, “why did we meet? What chance vrilled it? 
The truth is that, across the distance, like two rivers that flow to 
meet one another, our particular slopes forced us toward each 
other.'' 

And he grasped her hand; she did not withdraw it. 

“Together for good fanningr the president shouted. 

Rodolphe pressed her hand, feeling it warm and tremulous as a 
captive turtledove that wishes to regain its wings; bu^ whether 
because she was making an effort to free it or because she was 
responding to that pressure, her fingers moved; he cried: 



“Oh, thank you! You aren't driving me away! You are kind! You 
understand that Tm yours. Let me see you, let me look at you!” 

A breath of wind coming in at the windows rippled the cover on 
tlie table, and below, in the square, all the peasant women's wide 
sunbonnets rose like the wings of agitated white butterflies. 

“Use of oleaginous meal-cakes,” the president continued. 

Rodolphe did not speak. They gazed at each other. An over- 
whelnriing desire made their dry lips tremble; and softly, involun¬ 
tarily, their fingers intertwined. 

The ceremony was over; the crowd dispersed; and now that the 
speeches had been read, everyone returned to his own rank and all 
was restored to normal: masters berated servants and servants beat 
the animals, indifferent victors who returned to the stable, green 
wreaths between their horns. 

Meanwhile, the National Guardsmen had mounted to the first 
floor of the town hall, with brioches strung on their bayonets and 
the batallion’s drum laden with a basket of bottles. Madame Bovary 
took Rodolphe's arm; he escorted her back to her home; they 
parted in front of her door; then he went to stroll alone in the 
meadow while awaiting the hour of the banquet. 

The feast was long, noisy, ill-served; people were so closely 
packed that it was diflBcult to move one’s elbows, and the nar¬ 
row planks that served as benches all but cracked beneath the 
weight of the guests. They ate heartily. Everyone was intent upon 
getting his fair share. Sweat ran down all their foreheads; and a whit¬ 
ish vapor, like the mist over a river on an autumn morning, drifted 
above the table, between the hanging lanterns. Rodolphe, his back 
resting against the side-drop of the tent, was thinkin g so deeply of 
Emma that he heard nothing. Behind him, servants were piling up 
soiled plates on the turf; his neighbors spoke to him, he did not 
answer; his glass was refilled, and silence settled over his thoughts 
in spite of the swelling tumult. He dreamed over the words she 
had said and the shape of her lips; her face shone in the insignia on 
shakos as in a magic mirror; the folds of her gown hung down 
along the walls and days of love stretched out to infinity in the vista 
of the future. 

He saw her again that evening during the fireworks; but she was 
with her husband, Madame Homais and the pharmacist, who was 

128 



worldng himself up over the danger of stray rockets and kept leav¬ 
ing the group from moment to moment to go and give Binet advice. 

Emma, silent, leaned gently against Charles’ shoulder; then, rais¬ 
ing her chin, she would follow the luminous trail of the rockets 
across the back sky. Rodolphe watched her by the light of the 
street lamps which had been lighted. 

Gradually they dimmed. The stars came out. A few drops of rain 
fell. She tied her fichu over her bare head. 

Just then the councilor’s hired coach drove out of the inn yard. 
His driver, who was drunk, immediately fell into a doze, and they 
saw him from a distance, over the hood, between the two lanterns, 
the mass of his body swinging right and left according to the pitch¬ 
ing of the springs. 

"Truly,” the apothecary said, "drunkenness ought to be attacked 
with the utmost severityl I should like to see the names of all those 
who become intoxicated with alcoholic beverages during the week 
inscribed weekly on a bulletin board by the door of the town hall. 
Besides, statistically speaking, it would make a sort of legible record 
to which one could refer as needed , . . But excuse me.” 

And he hurried ofi once more toward the captain. 

The latter was returning to his house. He was going to have a 
look at his lathe. 

“Perhaps it wouldn’t do any harm,” Homais told him, "to send 
one of your men, or go yourself . . 

"Let me alone,” the tax-collector answered. "Everything is all 
rightl” 

“Be reassured,” the apothecary said, rejoining his friends. "Mon¬ 
sieur Binet has guaranteed to me that precautions were taken. No 
sparks have fallen. The pumps are full. Let us go and sleep.” 

“Mercy, I need some sleepi” said Madame Homais, who was 
yawning frequently. “But never mind, we had a lovely day for our 
celebration.” 

Rodolphe repeated in a low voice and vrith an ardent glance: 

“Oh, yes, lovelyl” 

And, having wished one another good night, they turned away. 


129 





IX weeks slipped by. Rodolphe 
did not return. At last, one evening, he ap¬ 
peared. “Better not go again for some time, it would be 
a mistake.” And at the end of that week he had left on a hunting trip. 

After the hunting trip he had thought that it was too late, then 
he reasoned: 

“But if she loved me at first sight she ought, out of impatience 
to see me again, to love me more. So lets go on with itl” 

And he came to the conclusion that his calculations had been 
correct when, upon entering the sitting room, he saw Emma turn 
pale. 

She was alone. Day was fading. The small muslin curtains at the 
windows deepened the twilight, and the gilding on the barometer, 
struck by a ray of sunlight, set flames gleaming in the mirror in 
the interstices between the coral branches. 

Rodolphe remained standing; Emma barely responded to his first 
courteous phrases. 

I have had business to attend to,” he said. “I have been ill.” 
‘Seriously?” she cried. 

“Well,” Rodolphe said, sitting down on a footstool beside her, 
“no! ... It was just that I didnT want to come back.” 

“Why?** 

“Can’t you guess?” 

He gazed at her again, but in so ardent a m ann er that she low¬ 
ered her head, flushing. He went on: 

“Emma . . 

“Monsieurl” she said, drawing back a little. 

“There, you see,” he said in a melancholy tone, “I was right not 
to want to come back; for that name, that name that fills my soul 
and slipped off my tongue, you forbid me to use iti Madame Bo- 

130 


€€' 


Ui 



• • • 


Besides, it*s not your 


varyl , . . Oh, everybody calls you that! 
name, it's another's ” 

He repeated: 

“Another's!” 

And he hid his face in his hands. 

“Yes, I think of you constantly . . . The memory of you plunges 
me in despair! Oh, forgive me! I'll go away . . . Good-by! I shall 
go far away, so far that you will never hear anyone speak of me 
again . . . and yet . . . today ... I don't know what force it was 
that drove me to you again. For one doesn’t struggle against 
heaven, one doesn’t resist the smile of the angels! One lets oneself 
be carried away by what is beautiful, charming, adorable!” 

This was the first time that Emma had heard these things said; 
and her vanity, like one relaxing in a steam bath, stretched lan¬ 
guorously and in every part, in the warmth of these words. 

But even if I haven t come,” he continued, "even if I haven't 

been able to see you, at least I have looked often at the things 

around you. At ni^t, every night, I would get up, come here, stare 

at your house, the roof shining in the moonlight, the trees in the 

garden swaying at your window, and a little lamp, a ray of light 

shining through the windovi^anes in the shadow. Ah, you had no 

idea that a poor wretched creature was there, so near and vet 
so far . . 

She turned toward him with a sob. 

“Oh, you are good!” she said. 

“No, I love you, that's all. You don't doubt it! Tell me you don't. 
One word, just one word!” 

And Rodolphe let himself slip almost imperceptibly from the 

footstool to the floor; but the soimd of wooden shoes came from the 

kitchen, and the door of the sitting room, he noticed, was not 
closed. 

Be charitable enough,” he went on, rising, “to satisfy a whim 
of mine.” 

It was to visit his house; he wanted to get to know her better; 

and, as Madame Bovary saw no objection, they were both rising 
when Charles came in. 

“Good evening. Doctor,” Rodolphe said. 

The physician, flattered by this unexpected title, launched into 

131 



obsequious phrases, and the other profited by the opportunity to 
recover himself somewhat. 

“Madame was speaking to me about her health,** he said then. 

Charles interrupted him: he, himself, was deeply concerned 
about it; his wife’s depression was recurring. Then Rodolphe asked 
whether horseback riding might not be good exercise for her. 

“Certainlyl Excellent, the very thingl . . . There’s an idea. You 
should follow it, my dear.” 

And, as she protested that she had no horse. Monsieur Rodolphe 
ofiered one of his; she declined his offer; he did not insist; then, in 
order to explain his visit, he told Charles that his plowman, the one 
who had been bled, was still having dizzy spells. 

“I’ll drop in and see him,” Bovary said. 

“No, no. I’ll send him to you. We will come, it will be more con¬ 
venient for you.” 

“Very well. Thank you.” 

And, as soon as they were alone: 

“Why didn’t you accept Monsieur Boulanger’s offer, it was so 
gracious of him?” 

She assumed a sulky air, produced a thousand excuses and finally 
declared that “it might look odd.” 

“Ob, what do I care about that!” Charles said, whirling about. 
“Health comes first. You are wrong.” 

‘Well, and how do you expect me to ride, when I have no habit?” 

“You must order one!” he said. 

The riding habit decided her. 

When the costume was ready, Charles wrote to Monsieur Bou¬ 
langer that his wife had changed her mind, and that he was count¬ 
ing upon his kindness. 

The next day, at noon, Rodolphe appeared before Charles* door 
with two saddle horses. One wore pink pompoms at its ears and a 
buckskin sidesaddle. 

Rodolphe had put on high supple leather boots, thinking that 
she had undoubtedly never seen any like them; Emma was, indeed, 
enchanted \vith his appearance when he came into the hall in his 
long velvet coat and white woolen breeches. She was ready, she 
was waiting for him. 

Justin slipped out of the pharmacy to see her, and the pharma- 

132 



cist, too, interrupted his work. He gave advice to Monsieur Bou¬ 
langer. 

“An accident happens so quickly! Be careful! Your horses are 
probably spirited!*’ 

She heard a noise above her head: it was Felicite tapping on the 
windowpane to amuse httle Berthe. The child blew a kiss; her 
mother answered with a gesture with the handle of her crop. 

“Have a nice ride!” Monsieur Homais cried. “Prudence is the 
chief thing. Prudence!” 

And he waved his newspaper, watching them move away. 

The moment it felt the earth under its feet, Emma’s horse broke 
into a gallop; Rodolphe galloped beside her. From time to time 
they exchanged a word. Her face lowered slightly, her hand held 
high and her arm outstretched, she gave herself up to the rhythm 
of the motion which rocked her in the saddle. 

At the foot of the hill Rodolphe loosened the reins; they set off 
together as if upon a signal; then, at the top, the horses suddenly 
halted and her great blue veil sank down again. 

It was early October. There was a haze over the land. Trails of 
mist lay along the horizon, against the curves of hills; others, dis¬ 
solving, drifted up and were lost to sight. Beside them, on the grass 
beneath the pine trees, a dusky light was diffused in the mild 
atmosphere. The earth, rust-red like snuff, deadened the sound of 
footsteps; and as they walked the horses kicked fallen pine cones 
ahead of them with the tips of their shoes. 

In this fashion Rodolphe and Emma followed the fringe of the 
woods. She turned away from time to time to avoid his glance, and 
then she saw nothing but the lines of pine-tree trunks, the uninter¬ 
rupted procession of which made her feel slightly giddy. The horses 
snuffled. The leather of the saddles creaked. 

Just as they entered the forest the sun came out. 

“God is favoring us!” Rodolphe said. 

“You think so?” she said. 

“Let’s go on. Let’s go on,” he said. 

He clicked his tongue. Their mounts moved faster. 

Long ferns growing along the edge of the path tangled in 
Emma’s spur. Rodolphe, as he rode, would lean down and pull 
them off each time. At other times, in order to avoid branches, he 

133 



would ride close to her, and Emma felt his knee press against her 
leg. The sky had become blue. The leaves did not stir. There were 
wide spaces full of heather in bloom; and patches of violets alter¬ 
nated with the interlacing leaves of trees which were gray, tawny 
or golden according to the variety of foliage. Often they heard in 
the imderbrush a small flutter of wings, or it might be the hoarse 
unalarmed call of the crows which rose from the oak trees. 

They dismounted. Rodolphe tethered the horses. She walked 
ahead of him over the moss, between the old ruts of the trail. 

But her long skirt impeded her, even though she picked it up by 
the train and carried it, and Rodolphe, walking behind her, saw 
between that black cloth and the black boot the sheemess of her 
white stocking which seemed to him a hint of nudity. 

She paused. "Tm tired," she said. 

“Come, try again,” he said. “Comagel” 

Then, a hundred yards farther on, she stopped again; and 
through her veil which fell from her mannish hat obliquely down 
to her hips, he could discern her face in a blue-tinted transparency, 
as if she were swimming imder azure waves. 

“Where are we going?” 

He did not answer. She was breathing in short broken gasps*. 
Rodolphe kept glancing about him and gnawing his mustache. 

They came upon a wider clearing where trees had been felled. 
They sat down upon an overturned tree trunk, and Rodolphe began 
to speak to her of his love. 

At first he did not alarm her with his compliments. He was calm, 
sober, melancholy. 

Emma listened, her head lowered, pushing at chips of wood with 
her toe. 

But at the phrase: “Our destinies are now one, arent they?” “Oh, 
nol” she replied. “You know very well. It*s impossible.” 

She stood up to go. He caught her wrist. She stopped. Then, hav¬ 
ing gazed at him for a few moments with ardent moist eyes, she 
said rapidly: 

“Oh, let*s not talk about it any more . . . Where are the horses? 
Let*s go back.** 

He made a gesture of anger and frustration. She kept repeating: 
‘Where are the horses? Where are the horses?** 

134 



Then, smiling a strange smile, his pupils staring, his teeth 
clenched, he advanced upon her, stretching out his arms. She drew 
back, trembling. She stammered: 

“Oh, youre frightening me! Youre making me feel ill! Let’s go 
back.” 

“If it has to be that way,” he said, his expression changing. 

And he at once resumed his affectionate, respectful, timid man¬ 
ner. She gave him her arm. They turned back. He said: 

“What came over you then? ^^y? I didn’t imderstand. You must 
have misunderstood. To me you are like a madonna on a pedestal, 
in a high place, serene and immaculate. But I need you in order to 
live! I need yom eyes, your voice, your thoughts. Be my friend, my 
sister, my angel!” 

And he stretched out his arm and slipped it around her waist 
She made a nerveless effort to draw away. He supported her so, as 
they walked. 

But they heard the two horses browsing among the leaves. 

“Oh, a httle longer!” Rodolphe said. “Let’s not go. Stay!” 

He drew her farther away, around a small pond where algae 
made green freckles on the ripples. A few faded water lilies floated 
motionless among the rushes. At the soimd of their footsteps over 
the grass, frogs hopped away to hide. 

“Its not right, it’s not right!” she kept saying. “I am insane to 
listen to you.” 

“Why? . .. Emma. Emma!” 

Oh, Rodolphe! . . .” the young woman murmmed reluctantly, 
leaning against his shoulder. 

The stuff of her sldrt clung to the velvet of his coat, she arched 
her white throat which swelled with a sigh and, half fainting, 
drowned in tears and hiding her face, with a long shudder she gave 
herself up. 

The shadows of evening were f allin g; horizontal sunlight, slip¬ 
ping between branches, dazzled her eyes. Here and there, all about 
her among the leaves or on the groimd, luminous spots shivered 
like hu mmin g-bird feaOiers lost in flight. Silence lay over every¬ 
thing; a sweetness seemed to issue from the trees; she felt her heart 
begin to beat again and the blood course through her flesh like a 
stream of milk. Then she heard, far in the distance beyond the 

135 



woods, upon the other hills, an indistinct and prolonged cry. a 
voice that lingered on, and she listened to it silently as it blended 
like music with the last vibrations of her aroused nerves. Rodolphe, 
a cigar between his teeth, was mending one of the bridles which 
had broken, with his penknife. 

They returned to Yonville, by the same road. They saw again 
their horses* tracks in the mud, side by side, and the same bushes, 
the same stones in the grass. Nothing round about them had 
changed; and yet for her something more momentous had occurred 
than if the mountains had been moved. Rodolphe leaned over from 
time to time and took her hand to kiss it. 

She was charming on horseback! Sitting straight, with her slen¬ 
der waist, her bent knee against her horses’s mane, and her color 
heightened a little by the fresh air. in the red glow of evening. 

Entering Yonville she caracoled in the street. 

People watched her from their windows. 

Her husband, at dinner, thought that she looked well; but she 
seemed not to hear when he asked about her ride; and she sat 
there, with her elbow at the edge of her plate, between the two 

lighted candles. 

“Emma!” he said. 

‘Whatr 

“Well, I passed by Monsieur Alexandre’s this afternoon; he has 
an old mare that’s still in fine condition, only a little bit broken- 
kneed, and that I’m sure could be bought for a hundred 6cus . . 

He added: 

“Thinking it would please you, I spoke for her ... I bought her 

.. . Did I do right? Tell me.” 

She nodded assent; then, a quarter of an hour later: 

“Are you going out this evening?” she asked. 

“Yes. Why?” 

“Oh, no reason, my dear.” 

And the moment she had got rid of Charles she went up to shut 
herself in her room. 

At first it was like a dizziness; she saw the trees, the paths, the 
ditches, Rodolphe, and she felt again the pressure of his arms 
while the leaves quivered and the rushes whispered. 

But catching sight of herself in the mirror, she was startled at her 

136 



own appearance. Never had her eyes been so large, so black or of 
such depth. Some subtle emanation diffused over her person had 
transfigured it. 

She repeated to herself: “I have a loverl A lover!” reveling in the 
thought as in a new puberty to which she had attained. So at last 
she was going to experience those joys of love, that fever of happi¬ 
ness of which she had despaired. She was on the threshold of some 
miraculous territory where all would be passion, ecstasy, delirium; 
a blue-tinted immensity surrounded her, pinnacles of emotion glit¬ 
tered in the light of her thoughts, ordinary existence was visible 
only in the distance, far away, in the shadow, through the spaces 
intervening between these heights. 

Then she recalled the heroines of books she had read, and the 
lyrical host of those adulterous wives began to sing in her memory 
with the voices of sisters, enchanting her. She herself seemed to 
become an actual part of these imaginings and to realize the long 
reverie of her youth as she took her place among this category of 
amorous women whom she had so envied. Further, Emma felt the 
gratification of revenge. Had she not suffered enough! But now she 
was triumphant, and love, so long repressed, burst forth without 
reserve, with joyous effervescence. She savored it without remorse, 
without disquiet, without alarm. 

The following day passed in a new delight. They exchanged 
vows. She told him her sorrows. Rodolphe interrupted her with 
kisses; and she asked him, gazing at him through half-closed eye¬ 
lids, to call her again by her name and to repeat that he loved her. 
This was in the forest, as it had been the day before, in a wood¬ 
cutters hut. The walls of it were made of straw and the roof came 
down so low that one had to stand bent over. They were seated 
close beside one another on a bed of dry leaves. 

From that day on they wrote to each other regularly every eve¬ 
ning. Emma took her letter to the end of the garden near the river, 
leaving it in a fissure of the retaining wall. Rodolphe came there to 
get it and left another, wjiich she always accused of being too short. 

One morning when Charles had gone out before dawn, she was 
seized with an impulse to see Rodolphe at once. She could reach 
La Huchette quickly, stay there an hour and be back in Yonviile 
while everyone was still asleep. This idea made her breathless with 








desire; presently she found herself in the middle of the praine, 
walking along swiftly without looking behind her. 

Day was beginning to break. From a distance Emma recognized 
her loveFs house with its two swallowtail weathervanes standing 

out black against the pale dawn light. 

Beyond the courtyard of the farm stood a main building which 
must be the chateau. She entered it as if the walls had parted of 
themselves at her approach. A broad straight staircase led up to the 
hall. Emma turned the handle of a door and suddenly, at the far 
end of the room, saw a man sleeping. It was Rodolphe. 

She cried out. 

“You’re herel You’re here!" he repeated. “How did you manage 
to come? . . . Oh, your dress is wetl" 

“I love you,” she answered, throwing her arms around his neck. 

That first piece of recklessness having succeeded, now every time 
Charles went out early, Emma quickly dressed and tiptoed down 
the stairs that led to the water’s edge. 

But when the cattle bridge was raised, she had to follow the 
walls that ran along the riverside; the bank was slippery; in order 
not to fall, she clung to clumps of withered wallflowers. Then she 
picked her way across plowed fields where she kept sinking in, 
stumbling and miring her thin shoes. Her kerchief, tied over her 
head, fluttered in the wind over the pasture lands; she was afraid 
of the bulls, she would begin to run; she would arrive out of breath, 
her cheeks pink, her whole body exhaling a fresh scent of green 
growing things, sap and open air. Rodolphe was still sleeping at 
that hour. It was like a spring morning coming into his room. 

The yellow curtains hanging at the vrindows let a dim golden 
light fall gently into the room. Emma would grope her way, blink¬ 
ing her eyes, while drops of dew clinging to her braids made a sort 
of topaz aureole all about her face. Rodolphe, laughing, would 
pull her to him and press her against his heart. 

Later, she would examine the room, open the doors of furniture, 
comb her hair with his comb and look at herself in his shaving 
mirror. Often she went so far as to hold in her teeth the stem of a 
large pipe which lay on the night table among lemons and bits of 
sugar, beside a pitcher of water. 

138 



Their farewells required a full quarter of an hour. Then Emma 
would cry; she would have liked never to leave Rodolphe. Some¬ 
thing stronger than herself kept urging her toward him, to such an 
extent that one day, seeing her arrive unexpectedly, he frowned 
like someone who is vexed. 

“What is the matter?” she said. “Are you ill? Tell mel” 

At length he declared with a serious air that her visits were be¬ 
coming indiscreet and that she was putting herself in a compromis¬ 
ing position. 


139 



^^^RADUALLY these fears of Ro- 
dolphe’s were communicated to her. Love 
had overwhelmed her at first; she had thought of nothing 
beyond that. But now that it was indispensable to her life she 
dreaded losing any part of it, or even allowing it to be touched by 
anxiety. Whenever she went back to him now she cast uneasy 
glances all about her, watching each form that passed on the hori¬ 
zon and each window in the village from which she might be seen. 
She listened to footsteps, cries, the sound of cartwheels; and she 
would stop short, paler and more tremulous than the poplar leaves 
quivering above her head. 

One morning as she was returning in this manner, she suddenly 
thought she saw the long barrel of a rifie which seemed to be 
trained upon her. It stuck out obliquely from a small thicket half 
hidden among the tall grasses on the edge of a ditch. Emma, about 
to faint with terror, nevertheless went forward, and a man emerged 
from the thicket like those devils on a spring that jump up out of 
boxes. He had gaiters buckled up to his knees, his cap pulled 
down over his eyes, shaking lips and a red nose. It was Captain 
Binet, lying in wait for wild duck. 

‘Tou should have spoken from a distance!” he cried. ‘When you 
see a gun you must always call out.” 

The tax-collector was trying by this means to dissemble the fright 
he had just had; for. a prefectoral edict having forbidden duck 
shooting except from a boat. Monsieur Binet, despite his respect for 
the law, was in the process of breaking it. Thus at every instant he 
kept thinking that he heard the game warden approaching. But this 
uneasiness interfered with his pleasinre and, all alone in his blind, 
he had been congratulating himself upon his good fortune and his 
cunning. 


140 



At sight of Emma he appeared to be relieved of a great weight, 
and at once, embarking upon conversation: 

“It s not warm, there’s a nip in the air.” 

Emma did not answer. He went on: 

“And you must have gone out very early?” 

‘"Yes,” she said, stammering, “I’m on my way back from the 
nurse’s house where my Uttle girl is.” 

“Ah, good, goodl As for me. I’ve been here since daybreak, just 
as you see me; but the weather is so beastly that unless one has the 
bird right at the end of . . .” 

“Good day. Monsieur Binet,” she interrupted, turning on her heel. 

“Your servant, Madame,” he replied dryly. 

And he returned to his blind. 

Emma regretted having left the tax-collector so abruptly. Doubt¬ 
less he would draw unfavorable conclusions. The story about the 
nurse was the worst excuse, everyone in Yonville being perfectly 
well aware that the little Bovary girl had returned to her parents’ 
home a year before. Besides, no one lived in this neighborhood; 
the road led only to La Huchette; so Binet must have guessed 
whence she was coming, and he would not hold his tongue, he 
would gossip, that was certain! She spent the whole day torment¬ 
ing her mind with the invention of every imaginable falsehood, and 
having the image of that imbecile vrith his game bag constantly 
before her eyes. 

After dinner, Charles, seeing her troubled, insisted upon taking 
her to the pharmacy by way of diversion; and the first person she 
saw there was that man again, the tax-collector! He was standing 
before the counter, full in the light from the red glass jar, and he 
was saying: 

“I want half an ounce of vitriol, please.” 

“Justin,” the apothecary called, “bring the sulphuric acid.” 

Then, to Emma, who was about to go up to Madame Homais’ 
apartments: 

“No, stay here, it’s not worth the trouble of going up; she’ll be 
right down. Warm yourself at the stove while you wait . . . excuse 
me . . . good evening. Doctor,” (for the pharmacist took great 
pleasure in pronouncing that word doctor, as if in addressing it to 
another he caused something of the pomp he found in it to reflect 

141 



upon himself.) . . Take care, Justin, donT upset the mortars! Go 
and fetch some chairs from the little room, instead; you know^very 
well the armchairs in the drawing-room aren t to be disturbed. 

And Homais was hastening out from behind the coimter to return 
his armchair to its place when Binet asked him for a half ounce of 
acid of sugar. 

“Acid of sugarK" the pharmacist said disdainfully. “I don't know 
it, never heard of it! Perhaps you want oxahc acid? It's oxalic, isn t 

itr 

Binet explained that he needed a corrosive in order to compound 
a metal polish with which to remove the rust from various hunting 
equipment. Emma shivered. The pharmacist began: 

“Really, the weather is not propitious, because of the humidity.” 

“There are people, however,” the tax-collector said with a sly 
look, “who manage to put up with it.” 

She was suffocating. “Give me . . .” 

“At this rate he'll never go,” she thought. 

“. . . half an ounce of resin and of turpentine, four ounces of 
yellow wax and an ounce and a half of charcoal, please, for cleaning 
the polished leather of my equipment.” 

The apothecary was beginning to measure off the wax 
Madame Homais appeared with Irma in her arms, Napoleon?at her 
side and Athalie following her. She went and sat dovra oh the 
velvet-covered bench against the window, and the boy squatted on 
a footstool while his elder sister prowled about the box of jujubes, 
near her dear papa. He himself was filling funnels and corking 
bottles, sticking on labels, making up packets. They were silent 
around him, and only the occasional clatter of weights in the scales 
was to be heard, along with a few low-voiced words from the 
pharmacist, instructing his pupil. 

“How is your young one?” Madame Homais asked suddenly. 

“Silence!” her husband exclaimed, writing figures in his copy¬ 
book. 

“Why didn't you bring her?” she went on in a lower tone. 

“Shi” Emma said, gesturing toward the apothecary. 

Monsieur Binet, intent upon checking over the addition, had 
probably not heard. At last he went out. Then Emma, relieved, 
sighed deeply. 


142 



“How heavily you’re breathingl” Madame Homais said. 

“Oh, because it’s so warm,” she answered. 

In consequence they decided, the next day, to arrange their meet¬ 
ings; Emma wanted to bribe her servant with a gift; but it would 
be safer to find some quiet house in Yonville. Rodolphe promised 
to look for one. 

All during the winter, three or four times a week, in the black 
of night, he came to the garden. Emma had purposely taken away 
the key to the gate, which Charles believed to have been lost. 

To attract her attention, Rodolphe would fling a handful of sand 
against her blinds. She would spring up; but sometimes she had to 
wait, for Charles had a passion for chatting beside the fire, and he 
went on and on. 

She would be consumed with impatience; if her eyes had had 
the power, they would have made him jump out the window. At 
length she would begin preparing for bed; then she would take up 
a book and continue to read tranquilly, as if the reading amused 
her. But Charles, already in bed, would call to her. 

“Come, Emma,” he would say. “It’s time.” 

“Yes, I’m coming,” she would answer. 

Meanwhile, as the candles bothered his eyes, he would turn 
tow®(i the wall and fall asleep. She would shp out, holding her 
breath, smiling, tremulous, half dressed. 

Rodolphe had a great cloak; he would wrap her up in it from 
head to toe and, with his arm about her waist, would draw her 
without speaking to the far end of the garden. 

It was under the arbor, on that same crumbling wooden bench 
from which L6on, long before, had gazed at her so ardently during 
the summer evenings. She never thought of him now. 

Stars gleamed through the leafless branches of the jasmine. Be¬ 
hind them they heard the river flowing past and, from time to time, 
the creaking of dried rushes on the bank. Great pools of shadow 
spread out here and there in the obscurity, and sometimes, all 
shivering with a simultaneous motion, they would rise and fall like 
vast black waves rolling up to break over them. The chill of the 
night made them cling the more closely together; the sighs from 
their lips seemed deeper; their eyes, barely visible to one another, 
seemed larger and, in the midst of the silence, words were softly 

143 



spoken which feU upon the spirit with crystalline clarity and re- 

echoed there in multiple vibrations. 

When the night was rainy, they went to take refuge in the con¬ 
sulting room, between the cart-shed and the stable. She would 
light one of the kitchen candles which she had hidden behind the 
books. Rodolphe made himself perfectly at home there. The sight of 
the bookcase and the desk, in fact of the whole room, aroused his 
mirth; and he was unable to refrain from making numerous jokes 
about Charles, which annoyed Emma. She would have liked to see 
him more serious, and even more dramatic when the occasion arose, 
like that time when she had thought she heard the soimd of ap¬ 
proaching footsteps in the lane. “Someone is comingl” she said. 

He blew out the light. 

“Have you your pistols?** 

“What forr 

“Why ... to defend yourself,** Emma said. 

“Against your husband? Ah, the poor fellowl*’ 

And Rodolphe finished his sentence with a gesture that signified: 

“I'd smash him with one blow of my fist.** 

She was lost in admiration of his courage, although she sensed 
in it a sort of indelicacy and frank crudity that shocked her. 

Rodolphe reflected deeply over this pistol episode. If she had 
been speaking seriously, he thought, that was extremely ridiculous, 
even disagreeable, for he, personally, had no reason to hate that 
well-meaning fellow Charles, not being what is called consumed 
with jealousy—and, in this connection, Emma had made him a 
solemn vow which he also felt to be not in the best taste. 

In addition, she was becoming highly sentimental. They had had 
to exchange miniatures; they had cut locks of one another's hair, 
and now she was asking for a ring, a genuine wedding ring, as a 
token of eternal union. She often spoke to him about the bells of 
evening or “the voices of nature”; then she would talk about her 
own mother and his. Rodolphe had lost his mother twenty years 
before. Emma comforted him for it, nevertheless, in affected lan¬ 
guage such as one might use to a forlorn child, and even went so 
far as to say to him sometimes, gazing at the moon: 

“I*m sure that up there, together, they are smiling on our love.” 

But she was so prettyl He had possessed so few women of such 

144 



candor! This love devoid of licentiousness was something new to 
him, and something which, drawing him out of his easy habits, 
flattered his pride and his sensuality at the same time. Emma’s ex¬ 
altation, which his good common sense scorned, seemed charming 
to him in his heart, since she directed it to himself. Later, sure of 
being loved, he took no more pains, and insensibly his manner 
changed. 

He no longer offered, as he had once done, those words so tender 
that they made her cry, nor those violent caresses that drove her 
to frenzy; with the result that their great love in which she lived 
submerged seemed to dwindle away about her, like the waters of 
a river being absorbed by its bed, until she saw the slimy bottom. 
She refused to believe it; she redoubled her tenderness, and Ro- 
dolphe concealed his indifference less and less. 

She did not know whether she regretted having yielded to him 
or, on the other hand, if she did not long to adore him all the more. 
The humiliation of feeling herself to be weak turned to a bitterness 
that was tempered by physical pleasure. It was not an attachment; 
it was something like a constant seduction. He dominated her. She 
was almost afraid of him. 

On the surface, however, all was more serene than ever, Rodolphe 
having succeeded in conducting the affair according to his own 
fancy; and at the end of six months, when spring came, they found 
themselves together like two married people placidly keeping alive 
a domestic flame. 

It was the time of year when old Rouault sent his goose in 
memory of his mended leg. The gift always came accompanied by 
a letter. Emma cut the string that fastened it to the hamper and 
read the following lines: 

My dear children: 

I hope that the present will find you in good health and that diis 
one will be as good as the others; for it seems, if I may say so, a bit 
more tender and heavier. But the next time I am going to give you 
a cock, unless you have some preference for hens, and please send 
me back the basket, along with the other two. I had bad luck with 
my wagon-shed, the roof of it flew up into the trees one night 
when the wind was high. The harvest wasn’t too wonderful. Really 

145 



I don’t know when I will come to visit you. It s so difficult for me 
to leave the house now that I’m alone, my poor Emmal 

And here there was an interval between the lines, as if the good 
man had laid down his pen to dream a little. 

I learned from a peddler who had a tooth pulled this winter, 
traveling through your part of the country, that Bovary was still 
working hard. That doesn’t surprise me, and he showed me his 
tooth; we took a cup of coffee together. I asked him if he had seen 
you, he told me no, but that he had seen two horses in the stable, 
from which I assume that business is good. So much the better, my 
dear children, and may God send you every imaginable blessing. 

It grieves me that I have not yet seen my beloved granddaughter 
Berthe Bovary. I planted a plum tree for her in the garden imder 
your window, and I won’t let anybody touch it except to make 
preserves for her later on, and I’ll keep them in the cupboard for 
her, for when she comes here. 

Good-by, my dear children. I embrace you. my daughter, you, 
too, my son-in-law, and a kiss on both cheeks for the baby. 

I am, with affection, 

Your loving father, 

Theodore Rouault. 

She remained for several minutes holding the coarse paper be¬ 
tween her fingers. It was a tangle of spelling errors, and Emma 
searched out the loving thought that prattled through them like a 
hen half hidden in a thorn hedge. The vwiting had been blotted 
with ashes from the hearth, for a little gray dtist drifted out of the 
letter onto her dress, and she almost seemed to see her father 
bending toward the fireplace to pick up the tongs. How long it had 
been since she had sat beside him, on the stool in the chimney 
comer, getting the end of a stick to take fire in the great flame from 
cracklhig sea-rushesl . . . What happiness in those days! What free¬ 
dom, what hope, what abimdance of illusions! Nothing of them was 
left, now. She had expended them on all the adventures of her 
spirit, throughout all the successive phases, in virginity, in mar¬ 
riage and in love—losing them thus along the course of her life, 

146 



day after day, like a traveler who leaves something of his wealth 
at each of the inns along the way. 

But what was making her so miserable? Where was the extraordi¬ 
nary catastrophe that had overwhelmed her? And she raised her 
head, looking about her as if to seek the source of what was making 
her suffer. 

A ray of April sunhght danced on the porcelains of the what-not; 
the fire was burning; she felt the softness of the carpet under her 
slippers; the day was clear, the air mild, and she heard her child 
lau ghin g aloud. 

As a matter of fact, the little girl was then rolling on the lawn in 
the midst of the grass that was being dried for hay. She was lying 
flat on her stomach on top of a stack. Her nurse was holding her 
by the skirt. Lestiboudois was raking near by, and each time he 
came close to her she would lean over, waving her two arms in 
the air. 

“Bring her to mel” her mother said, running forward to kiss her. 
“How I love you, my darlingl How I love youl” 

Then, noticing that her earlobes were a little dirty, she quickly 
rang for warm water and washed her, changed her underthings, her 
stockings, her slippers, asked a thousand questions about her health 
as if upon returning from a journey and at length, kissing her again 
and weeping a little, she restored her to the hands of the servant 
who was left highly astonished at this excess of affection. 

That evening Rodolphe found her more serious than usual. 

“She will get over it,” he decided. “It*s a whim.” 

And he missed three consecutive meetings. When he returned, 
she acted cold and almost scornful. 

“Ah, you’re wasting your time, my sweet., 

And he pretended not to notice her melancholy sighs, nor the 
handkerchief she was twisting. 

It was then that Emma repentedl 

She even wondered why she had been detesting Charles, and 
whether it might not have been better to be able to love him. But 
he showed no great response to these renewals of affection, so that 
she was left considerably frustrated in her notion for self-sacrifice 
until the apothecary, just at the right time, happened to offer her 
an opportunity. 


147 



Jj 

had recently read an article 
in praise of a new method for treating club¬ 
foot; and, as he was an upholder of progress, he con¬ 
ceived the patriotic idea that Yonville, in order to Tceep abreast, 
ought to perform talipes operations. 

“Because,” he said to Emma, “what risk is there? Observe” (and 
he enumerated tlie advantages of the attempt on his fingers): “al¬ 
most certain success, relief and improvement in the appearance 
of the patient, a reputation quickly made for the surgeon. Why 
shouldn't your husband, for instance, want to help out poor Hip- 
polyte, over at the Lion &lt;fOr? Don't forget that he would be sure 
to tell all the visitors about his cure, and besides” (Homais lowered 
his voice and glanced about him) "what's to prevent me from send¬ 
ing a little note about it to the newspaper? Well, my Lord, an 
article goes round . . . it's talked about ... in the end it's like a 
snowball! And who knows? Who knows?” 

Indeed, Bovary might be successful; she saw no evidence that he 
was not an able man, and what a satisfaction for her to have urged 
upon him an undertaking from which his reputation and his fortune 
might be made. All she asked was to have something more stable 
than love to lean upon. 

Charles, importuned by the apothecary and by her, allowed him¬ 
self to be convinced. He sent to Rouen for Doctor Duval's book, 
and every evening, with his head between his hands, he buried 
himself in study. 

While he was studying equinus, varus and valgus, that is to say 
strephocatopody, strephendopody and strephexopody (or, to' put it 
better: the various malformations of the foot, whether twisted 
down, inward or outward), along with strephypopody and strephan- 
opody (in other words: torsion below and curvature on top), Mon- 

148 



sieur Homais was exhorting the handy-man of the inn, by all man¬ 
ner of arguments, to undergo the operation. 

“YouU barely feel it, a shght pain perhaps; it’s a mere prick like 
a minor bleeding, less severe than the removal of certain corns.” 
Hippolyte, pondering, rolled stupid eyes. 

“Besides,” the pharmacist went on, “it doesn’t make any differ¬ 
ence to me. It’s for you, out of pure humanityl I should like to see 
you, my friend, rid of your hideous deformity and that tvidsting of 
the lumbar region which, whatever you claim, must hamper you 
considerably in the performance of your work.” 

Then Homais described to him how much more cheerful and 
active he would feel afterwards, and even gave him to understand 
that he would find himself more attractive to women, and the stable 
boy began to grin foohshly. Then he attacked his vanity: 

“Aren’t you a man, for heaven’s sake? What would have happened 
if you had had to serve, to go and fight for your country? . . . Oh, 
Hippolytel” 

And Homais moved away, declaring that he did not understand 
that stubbornness, that blindness that denied itself the benefits of 
science. 

The unfortimate fellow yielded, for it was like a conspiracy. 
Binet, who never meddled in the affairs of others, Madame Lefran- 
9ois, Artemise, the neighbors and even the mayor, Monsieur Tu- 
vache, everybody urged him, preached to him, made him ashamed 
of himself; but what eventually decided him was that “it wouldn’t 
cost anything.” Bovary even took it upon himself to provide the 
equipment for the operation. This generosity had been Emma’s idea, 
and Charles agreed to it, telling himself in his heart that his wife 
was an angel. 

With the pharmacist’s advice, then, and after three false starts, 
he had constructed by the blacksmith, with the aid of the locksmith, 
a sort of box weighing about eight poimds, in which no amount of 
iron, wood, sheet-metal, leather, screws and nuts was spared. 

Meanwhile, in order to know which tendon to cut for Hippolyte, 
he had first to determine which type of clubfoot he had. 

His foot made an almost straight line with his leg, which did not 
prevent it from being turned inward, so that it was a talipes equinus 
combined with a slight varus, or perhaps a slight varus with a pro- 

149 



nounced tendency toward the equinus. But with this talipes equinus, 
literally as large as a horse’s hoof with its homy skin, prominent 
tendons, thick toes on which blackened toenails were like horse¬ 
shoe nails, the clubfooted boy raced about like a stag from morning 
to night. One was constantly seeing him in the square, skipping 
around the wagons, throwing his uneven hip forward at every step. 
He seemed even more active with that leg than with the other. 
Through use it had developed something like the moral qualities of 
patience and energy, and when he was given heavy work to do he 
rested his weight upon it by preference. 

Now. since it was a talipes equinus, it was necessary to cut the 
Achilles tendon, leaving it until later to deal with the Hbialis an¬ 
terior muscle to correct the vams: for the physician did not dare 
risk performing both operations at once, and he was even trembling 
in advance with the fear of injuring some vital area of which he 
was unaware. 

Certainly neither Ambroise Par6, applying the principle of imme¬ 
diate ligature of an artery for the first time since Celsus, after an 
interval of fifteen hundred years; nor Dupuytren, about to open an 
abscess through a thick layer of brain tissue; nor Gensoul, when he 
performed the first ablation of the maxilla, had so irregular a heart¬ 
beat, so tremulous a hand, so tense a state of mind as Monsieur 
Bovary as he approached Hippolyte, his scalpel in his fingers. And 
just as in a hospital, there lay on a table at one side a heap of 
gauze sponges, waxed sutures, many bandages, a pyramid of band¬ 
ages, all the bandages the apotiiecary’s establishment afiorded. It 
was Monsieur Homais who, early that morning, had organized all 
these preparations, as much to impress the multitude as to give 
himself any illusions. Charles thrust his scalpel into the skin; a 
sharp crack was heard. The tendon was cut, the operation over. 
Hippolyte could not get over his surprise; he leaned over Bovary’s 
hands to cover them with kisses. 

"Come now, calm down,” the apothecary said. "You can show 
your gratitude toward your benefactor later onl” 

And he went downstairs to tell the results to five or six curious 
people who had taken up a position in the courtyard and who 
imagined that Hippolyte would appear walking straight. Then 
Charles, having strapped his patient into the mechanical device, 

150 



returned home where Emma, all anxiety, was waiting for him on 
the doorstep. She flung herself upon his neck; they sat down at 
table; he ate a great deal and even insisted upon having a cup of 
coffee with his dessert, a debauch which he permitted himself only 
on Sundays, when there were guests. 

The evening was delightful, full of talk, of shared dreams. They 
spoke of their future fortunes, of improvements to be introduced 
into their household; he saw his reputation expanding, his well¬ 
being increasing, his wife loving him forever; and she felt the 
gratiflcation of being refreshed by a new, saner, more virtuous 
emotion, of feeling at last some affection for this poor boy who 
adored her. For a moment the thought of Rodolphe passed through 
her mind; but her eyes returned to Charles: she even noticed with 
surprise that his teeth were not at all ugly. 

They were in bed when Monsieur Homais, despite the cooks 
protests, came abruptly into the room holding in his hand a freshly 
written sheet of paper. It was the announcement he intended for 
the Fanal de Rouen. He had brought it for them to read. 

“Read it yourself,” Bovary said. 

He read: 

“Despite the prejudices which still cover part of the face of 
Europe hke a net, ihe light is nevertheless beginning to penetrate 
to our countrysides. It was thus that, on Wednesday, our little city 
of Yonville found itself the stage for a surgical operation which was 
at the same time an act of philanthropy. Monsieur Bovary, one of 
our most distinguished practitioners . . 

“Oh, that’s too mucbl That’s too muchl” Charles said, choking 
with emotion. 

“Why no, not at alll What do you meanl . . . operated upon a 
clubfoot ... I didn’t put the scientific term because, you know, in 
a newspaper , . . perhaps not everybody would understand; the 
masses must ...” 

“Quite so,” Bovary said. “Go on.” 

“I continue,” the pharmacist said. “Monsieiu* Bovary, one of our 
most distinguished practitioners, operated upon a clubfooted pa¬ 
tient named Hippolyte Tautain, for twenty-five years the stable boy 
at the Lion dOr hotel, kept by Madame Lefran9ois, on the Place 
d’Armes. The novelty of the undertaking and the interest attached 

151 



to the subject had attracted such an assembly of people that ^ere 
was literally a throng at the door of the estabhshment. In addition, 
the operation proceeded as if by magic and barely a few drops of 
blood came up to the skin as if to announce that the rebel tendon 
had at last yielded to the efforts of skill. The patient (we state it 
de visu) experienced no pain, a strange thing. His condition at pres¬ 
ent leaves nothing to be desired. Everything leads to the belief that 
the period of convalescence will be short, and even—who knows?— 
at the next village festival we may see our good Hippolyte taking 
part in Bacchic dances, in the midst of a chorus of merry comrades, 
and thus demonstrating to all eyes, by means of his vigor and his 
capers, the completeness of his cure. All honor, then, to generous 
savantsl Honor to those indefatigable spirits who consecrate their 
waking hours to the improvement or the healing of their racel 
Honor, thrice honorl Is this not an occasion for crying that the blind 
shall see, the deaf hear, the lame walk? But what fanaticism used 
to promise its own chosen ones, science now accomplishes for all 
men. We will keep our readers informed of the successive phases 
of this remarkable cure.” 

For all this, five days later, Madame Lefrangois arrived utterly 
distracted, crying: 

“Helpl Hes dyingl . . . Im going out of my mindl” 

Charles dashed to the Lion dOr, and the pharmacist, who caught 
sight of him passing in the square, without a hat, deserted the 
pharmacy. He appeared himself, panting, red in the face, uneasy, 
and asking of all those who were climbing up the stairs: 

“So what is the matter with our interesting tahped?** 

He was writhing, the taliped, in appalling convulsions, with the 
result that the mechanical device in which his leg was encased 
struck against the wall as if to batter it down. 

With many precautions to avoid altering the position of the limb, 
the box was then removed and a frightful spectacle exposed. The 
shape of the foot was indistinguishable in such a swelling that the 
entire simface of the skin seemed about to rupture, and it was cov¬ 
ered with bruises caused by the famous appliance. Hippolyte had 
already complained of pain from it; they had paid no attention; 
they were now forced to admit that he had not been completely 
mistaken and they left him free for a few hours. But scarcely had 

152 



the pain of the oedema subsided when the two learned men judged 
it time to restore the limb to the apphance, squeezing it even more 
tightly to hasten matters. Then, three days later, Hippolyte being 
unable to endiure it any longer, they removed the apparatus once 
more, being vastly astonished by the results they discovered. A hvid 
tumefaction extended down the leg, with blisters here and there 
from which oozed a black exudate. This was taking a serious turn. 
Hippolyte was beginning to become annoyed about it, and Madame 
Lefrangois installed him in the small sitting room near the kitchen 
so that he might at least have some distraction. 

But the tax-collector, who dined there every day, complained 
bitterly at having such surroundings; so Hippolyte was moved to 
the billiard room. 

He lay there, groaning under his coarse blankets, pale, his beard 
grown long, his eyes hollow and, from time to time, turning his 
sweating head on the dirty pillow slip, upon which flies kept alight¬ 
ing. Madame Bovary came to see him. She brought him cloths for 
his poultices, and consoled him, encouraged him. Aside from this, 
he did not lack company, particularly on market days when the 
peasants gathered about him, shooting billiard balls, fencing with 

their cues, smoking, drinking, singing, shouting. 

“How do you feel?” they would say, slapping him on the shoulder. 
“Ah, you re not bragging, by the looks of thingsl Well, its your own 
fault. You should have done this, done that.” 

And they would tell him stories of people who had all been 
healed by other remedies than his; then, as a sort of consolation, 
they would add: 

“The trouble is you listen too much. Get upl You're pampering 
yourself like a king. Oh, never mind, you old rascall You don t feel 
weU.” 

Indeed, the gangrene was climbing higher and higher. Bovary 
was ill over it himself. He came every hour, every moment. Hip¬ 
polyte would gaze at him with eyes full of terror and babble, 
sobbing: 

“When am I going to be well? . . . Oh, save me! . . . How miser¬ 
able I ami How miserable I ami” 

And the doctor would leave, always prescribing a moderate diet. 

“Don't pay any attention to him, my boy,” Madame I_iefran9ois 

153 



would say. “TheyVe already tortured you good and plenty. You re 
going to make yourself even weaker. Come on now, eatl” 

And she would offer him a rich broth, a mutton chop or a rasher 
of bacon, and sometimes httle glasses of brandy which he had not 
the energy to raise to his hps. 

The inexorable putrefaction kept creeping up from the extrem¬ 
ities toward the abdomen. In vain they varied potions and changed 
poultices, the muscles wasted away more every day, and at length 
Charles answered with an aflSrmative nod when M^re Lefran9ois 
asked if she might not, as a last resort, send for Monsieur Canivet 
of Neufchatel, who was a celebrity. 

A doctor of medicine, fifty years old, enjoying a fine position and 
with confidence in himself, the consultant did not trouble to sup¬ 
press a scornful laugh when he saw that leg, gangrenous to the 
knee. Then, having stated baldly that it must be amputated, he 
went to the pharmacist's to rail against the asses who had managed 
to reduce an unfortunate man to such a condition. Shaking Mon¬ 
sieur Homais by the button of his coat he vociferated in the phar¬ 
macy. 

'That sort of thing is one of those Parisian inventionsi Those are 
the ideas of those gentlemen in the Capital! IPs like strabism, 
chloroform and lithotrity, a lot of monstrosities that the govern¬ 
ment ought to forbid. Straightening clubfeet! Can clubfeet be 
straightened? It’s like trying to make a hunchback straight.” 

Monsieur Homais suffered, listening to this oration, and he 
masked his discomfort under a courtiers smile, having need of 
Monsieur Canivet whose orders sometimes reached Yonville; so he 
did not come to Bovary’s defense, did not even utter one conunent, 
and, abandoning his principles, sacrificed his dignity to the more 
important considerations of his trade. 

This leg amputation by Doctor Canivet was a considerable event 
in the village. All the inhabitants rose earlier that day, and the 
Main Street, although crowded with people, had something lugu¬ 
brious about it, as if it were a matter of a criminal execution. At 
the grocer’s there were arguments about Hippolyte’s illness; the 
shops sold nothing, and Madame Tuvache, the mayors wife, did 
not move from her window, because of her impatience to see the 
surgeon arrive. 


154 



Bovary, meanwhile, did not dare stir from his house. He stayed 
downstairs in the sitting room, seated beside the lightless hearth, 
his nhin on his chest, hands clasped, eyes staring. What a calamity, 
he thought, what a disappointment! Yet he had taken every imag¬ 
inable precaution. Fate had taken a hand in it. No matter; if Hip- 
polyte should die, later, it was he who would have murdered him. 
And then what excuse could he give, on his rounds, when he was 
questioned? Perhaps, after all, he had made a mistake somewhere? 
He searched his mind, foxmd nothing. But the most famous sur¬ 
geons often made mistakes. That was what people were never will¬ 
ing to believel They were going to laugh, instead, abuse him! It 
would spread to Forges, to Neufchatel, to Rouen, everywhere! Who 
knew, colleagues might write articles against himl A controversy 
would result, he would have to answer in the newspapers. Hippolyte 
might even sue him. He saw him self dishonored, ruined, lost. And 
his imagination, beset by a multitude of hypotheses, tossed among 
them like an empty cask swept out to sea and rolling with the 
waves. 

Emma, opposite, watched him; she did not share in his humilia¬ 
tion, she was experiencing another: it was in having deluded herself 
with the idea that such a man could amount to anything, as if she 
had not already had s uffi cient evidence of his mediocrity twenty 

times over. 

Charles was pacing back and forth in her room. His boots clat¬ 
tered on the wooden floor. 

‘"Sit down,” she said, “you re making me nervous.” 

He sat down. 

How, then, had she managed (she who was so intelligent) to de¬ 
ceive herself again? Further, what abominable mania led her to 
destroy her own existence, thus, through continual sacrifices? She 
remembered all her instinctive desires for luxury, all the privations 
of her spirit, the meannesses of marriage, of housekeeping, her 
dreams falling into the mud like wounded swallows, all that she 
had yearned for, all that she had denied herself, all that she might 
have had! And why? Why? 

In the midst of the silence that lay over the village a piercing 
scream rent the air. Bovary turned pale as if about to faint. She 
frowned in a nervous reaction, then continued. It had been for him, 

155 



all the time, for this creature, for this man who understood nothing, 
felt nothing! For there he sat, quite calmly, and without even sus¬ 
pecting that the ridicule attached to his name was henceforth going 
to sully her as well as him self. She had made efforts to love him, 
and she had repented, weeping, for having given herself to another. 

“But perhaps it was a vagusl” Bovary, who was thinking deeply, 
exclaimed abruptly. 

At the unexpected shock of this phrase falling upon her train of 
thought like a leaden ball into a silver dish, Emma, shuddering, 
raised her head to discover what he meant; and they stared at one 
another silently, almost dumfounded at seeing one another, so 
remote were they in their minds. Charles contemplated her with 
the troubled look of a drunken man, while listening, motionless, to 
the last screams of the patient which followed one another in pro¬ 
tracted modulations cut short by piercing shrieks, like the distant 
bellowing of some animal having its throat cut. Emma bit her 
blanched lips and, rolling between her fingers a nodule of coral 
which she had broken off, she fixed upon Charles the burning points 
of her pupils, like two fiery arrows aimed to fly. Everything about 
him antagonized her now, his face, his dress, the things he did not 
say, his entire person, his very existence. She repented of her past 
virtue as if of a crime, and what remained of it crumbled away 
under the furious blows of her pride. She reveled in all the evil 
ironies of triumphant adultery. The memory of her lover returned 
to her with intoxicating charms; she plunged her soul into it, im¬ 
pelled toward that image with new rapture; and Charles seemed 
to her as divorced from her life, as irrevocably absent, as impossible 
and annihilated as if he had died and imdergone his death agony 
before her eyes. 

There was a sound of footsteps on the sidewalk. Charles looked; 
and, through the lowered Venetian blind, at the comer of the mar¬ 
ket place, in full sunlight, he saw Doctor Canivet &gt;viping his fore¬ 
head with his handkerchief. Homais, behind him, was carrying a 
great red box in his hand, and they were both moving in the direc¬ 
tion of the pharmacy. 

Then, out of sudden tenderness and discouragement, Charles 
turned to his vvdfe, saying: 

“Kiss me, my dear!” 


156 



“Let me alonel” she said, scarlet with anger. 

“What is the matter? What is it?” he repeated, amazed. “Calm 
yourself, get hold of yourself. You know I love you . . . Come, now! 
“Enough!” she cried with a terrible air. 

And, miming from the room, Emma slammed the door so vio¬ 
lently that the barometer leaped from the wall and shattered on the 

floor. 

Charles sank into his armchair, overcome, racking his brains over 
what might be the matter with her, imagining a nervous ailment, 
weeping and feeling vaguely about him something malign and in¬ 
comprehensible. 

When Rodolphe came to the garden that evening, he found lus 
mistress waiting for him at the foot of the steps, on the lowest stair. 
They embraced, and all their bitterness melted like snow in the 
warmth of that kiss. 


157 







HEY began to love one another 
again. Frequently Emma would even write 
him a letter suddenly in the middle of the day; then 
she would signal through the window to Justin who, hastily unty¬ 
ing his canvas apron, would speed off to La Huch^tte: Rodolphe 
would come; it was for the purpose of telling him that she was 
bored, that her husband was revolting and existence hideous! 

"Is there anything I can do about it!” he cried one day, out of 
patience. 

“Ah, if you would! ...” 

She was sitting on the ground at his feet, her hair hanging loose, 
her eyes far away. 

“What, then?” Rodolphe said. 

She sighed: ‘We could go and live somewhere else . . . some¬ 
where ...” 

“You really are out of your mind!” he said, laughing. “Is it pos- 
sible?*' 

She kept dwelling upon it; he seemed not to imderstand and 
changed the subject. What he did not imderstand was all this 
bother over something so simple as love. She had a motive, a 
reason, a sort of auxiliary to her affection. 

This fondness, indeed, increased daily in proportion to her aver¬ 
sion for her husband. The more she yielded herself to the one, the 
more she detested the other; never had Charles seemed so revolting 
to her, had such blunt fingers, so dull a mind, such common man¬ 
ners as after her meetings with Rodolphe, when they were left 
together. Then, while acting the wife and the virtuous woman, she 
would be afire with the thought of that head with its black hair 
turning in a curl over the tanned brow, of that figure at once so 
sturdy and so elegant, of that man, in fact, who possessed so much 

158 



experience in judgment, so much passion in desire! It was for him 
that she filed her fingernails with a sculptor s precision, and that 
there was never enough cold cream on her skin or patchouli in her 
handkerchiefs. She loaded herself with bracelets, rings, necklaces. 
When he was expected she filled her two great blue-glass vases with 
roses, and arranged her room and her person like a courtesan await¬ 
ing a prince. The servant had constantly to be washing linens; and 
all day long Felicite did not stir from the kitchen, where young 
Justin, who often kept her company, would sit watching her work. 

His elbow on the long board she used for ironing, he would ex¬ 
amine avidly all those feminine items spread out around him: 
dimity petticoats, fichus, collars and pantalettes with drawstring 
tops, full at the hips and narrowing in at the bottom. 

“What is that for?” the boy would ask, passing his hand over 
crinolines or hooks and eyes. 

“Haven’t you ever seen anything?” F61icit6 would answer, laugh¬ 
ing. “As if your lady, Madame Homais, didn’t wear the same 
thingsl” 

“Oh, well, yes. Madame Homaisl” 

And he would add in a meditative tone; 

“Is she a woman like Madame?” 

But F61icit6 was becoming impatient over seeing him hover about 
her this way. She was six years older, and Theodore, Monsieur 
Guillaumin’s servant, was beginning to court her. 

“Let me bel” she would say, pushing aside her pot of starch. 
“Go and steal almonds instead. You’re always hanging around 
women; before you get mixed up in that sort of thing, you naughty 
little boy, you’d better wait till you have a beard on your chin.” 

“Now, don’t be angry. I’m going to go do her boots for you.” 

And at once he would reach over to the window ledge for Emma s 
shoes, all crusted with mud—the mud of the rendezvous—which 
came away in powder at his touch, and which he watched drift 
gently upward in a ray of sunlight. 

“How scared you are of hurting them!” said the cook, who did 
not take such pains when she cleaned them herself because the 
moment the material no longer looked new, Madame gave them to 
her. 

E mma had in her wardrobe a quantity of shoes which she used 

159 



as carelessly as she pleased, without Charles' allowing himself the 
least comment. 

In the same manner he spent three hundred francs for a wooden 
leg which she considered it fitting to present to Hippolyte. 

The lower part of it was finished off with cork and there were 
joints with springs, a complex mechanism covered vath a black 
pants-leg, which ended in a polished boot. But Hippolyte, not 
daring to use so fine a leg for every day, begged Madame Bovary to 
get him another, more suitable one. The physician, of course, again 
paid the expense of this new acquisition. 

After that the stable boy began to work again. One saw him 
about the village as before, and when Charles heard from a dis¬ 
tance the sharp sound of his stick on the pavement, he hurriedly 
took another path. 

It was Monsieur Lheureux, the merchant, who had undertaken 
to fill these orders; it gave him an opportunity to see Emma fre¬ 
quently. He would talk to her about new merchandise from Paris, 
about a thousand feminine novelties, seemed extremely obliging 
and never pressed her for money. Emma gave herself up to that 
easy way of satisfying all her fancies. Thus, she wanted to give Ro- 
dolphe a very handsome whip that was offered in an umbrella 
shop in Rouen. The follovring week. Monsieur Lheureux laid it 
upon her table for her. 

But the next day he presented himself at the house with a bill 
for two hundred and seventy francs, not counting the centimes. 
Emma was greatly embarrassed: all the drawers of the secretary 
were empty; more than two weeks' wages were owing Lestiboudois, 
two quarters' to F61icit6, numerous other obligations besides, and 
Bovary was impatiently awaiting payment from Monsieur Dero- 
zerays, who was in the habit of settling his account each year around 
Saint Peter's Day. 

At first she succeeded in putting Lheureux off; then he lost pa¬ 
tience: his creditors were after him, he lacked capital and, if he 
did not recover some of it, he would be obliged to take back from 
her all the articles she had bought. 

‘*Well, take them back,” Emma said. 

“Oh, you're joking!” he answered. “The only thing I regret is the 
whip. Upon my word, I'll ask Monsieur for it.” 

160 



“No, no!” she said. 

“Ah, now Fve got you!” Lheureux thought. 

And, convinced of his discovery, he left, repeating half aloud and 

with his slight habitual lisp: 

“Very well, we shall see. We shall seel” 

She was considering how to extricate herself when the cook, 
coming in, laid a small roll of blue paper on the mantel; it was 
from Monsieur Derozerays. Emma seized it, opened it. There were 
fifteen napoleons inside. It was the payment of his account. She 
heard Charles on the stairs; she flung the gold into her drawer and 
took the key. 

Three days later Lheureux appeared again. 

“I have an arrangement to suggest to you, he said. If, instead 
of paying the amount agreed upon, you would like to take . , . 
“Here it is,” she said, dropping four napoleons into his hand. 

The merchant was dumfounded. Then, to conceal his disappoint¬ 
ment, he launched into excuses and offers of services all of which 
Emma refused; then she stood for several minutes fingering, in her 
apron pocket, the two five-franc pieces he had returned to her. She 
was promising herself that she would economize, in order to pay 
back later ... 

“Oh, nonsense!” she thought “He*ll never think of it again.” 

In addition to the crop with the silver-gilt handle, Rodolphe had 
received a seal with the device: Atnot tiel Cor; also, a scarf for his 
neck and a cigarette case exactly like the Viscounts, which Charles 
had picked up long before in the road, and which Emma still saved. 
Yet these gifts humiliated him. He refused several of them; she in¬ 
sisted, and in the end Rodolphe yielded, finding her tyrannical and 

overforward. 

Then, too, she had strange ideas: 

“When midnight strikes,” she would say, “you must think of me.” 
And if he admitted having failed to think of her, there were re¬ 
proaches in plenty, always ending with the inevitable words: 

“Do you love me?” 

“Why, yes, of course I love you,” he would answer. 

“Very much?” 

“Certainly.” 


161 



‘"You’ve never loved any other, have you?” 

“Do you think I came to you a virgin?” he exclaimed, laughing. 

Emma wept, and he forced himself to comfort her, enlivening 
his protestations with jokes. 

“Oh, it’s just that I love you sol” she would say. “I love you so 
much that I can’t do without you, do you realize that? Sometimes, 
in my longing to see you again, all the furies of love tear at me. 
I wonder: "Where is he? Perhaps he is talking to other women? 
They smile at him, he moves closer . . . ' Oh, nol None of them 
attracts you, isn’t that so? There are more beautiful women, but 
I know how to love better. I’m your slave and your concubinel You 
are my king, my idol! You are good, you are handsome, you are 
intelligent, you are strong!” 

He had had to listen to these things so many times that they no 
longer had any novelty for him. Emma was like all mistresses; 
and the charm of newness, slipping down little by little like a gar¬ 
ment, revealed unclothed the eternal monotony of passion which 
has always the same forms and the same language. He did not 
discern, this man so full of the practical, the dissimilarity of emo¬ 
tions beneath the similarity of expressions. Because lustful or 
mercenary lips had murmured like phrases to him, he believed but 
little in the candor of hers; they ought to let up a little, he thought, 
exaggerated turns of speech conceal mediocre affections: as if the 
fulness of the soul might not sometimes overflow in the emptiest 
metaphors, since no one, ever, can give the exact measurements of 
his needs, nor of his conceptions, nor of his suffering, and the 
human word is like a cracked caldron upon which we beat out 
melodies fit for making bears dance when we are trying to move 
the stars to pity. 

But, with that critical superiority possessed by one who, in no 
matter what undertaking, holds himself back, Rodolphe found 
other pleasures to exploit in this love. He considered all modesty 
misplaced. He treated her without ceremony. He made of her a 
pliant and corrupt thing. It was a sort of idiot attachment, full of 
wonder for him, of sensual pleasure for her, a blissfulness that 
wrapped her in languor; and her spirit sank into that intoxication 
and drowned there, a shriveled thing, like the Duke of Clarence 
in his cask of Malmsey. 


162 



Solely from the effect of her amorous habits, Madame Bovary’s 
manner changed. Her glances became bolder, her speech freer; 
she was even so imconventional as to go out walking with Monsieur 
Rodolphe, a cigarette in her mouth as if to defy the world; in the 
end, those who had still doubted doubted no more when they saw 
her descend from the Hirondelle one day, her waist pinched in by 
a waistcoat, in the masculine manner; and Madame Bovary, Charles 
mother, who had come to take refuge with her son after a shocking 
scene with her husband, was not the least scandalized of the village 
women. Many other things offended her: to begm with, Charles 
had paid no attention to her advice about the prohibition of novels; 
then, the “atmosphere of the house” displeased her; she took the 
liberty of commenting and there were lost tempers, particularly 

one time when it was a question of Fehcit6. 

The evening before, Madame Bovary the elder, crossing the cor¬ 
ridor, had caught her in the company of a man, a man of about 
forty, with a dark coUar, who, at the sound of her steps, had quickly 
sUpped out of the kitchen. At this Emma began to laugh; but the 
good woman flew into a rage, declaring that rather than ridiculing 
standards of behavior, one ought to watch over those of servants. 

“What sort of world do you come from?” the daughter-in-law 
said, with so insolent a look that Madame Bovary asked her if she 

were not defending her own actions. 

“Get outl” the young woman said, springing up. 

“Emma! . . . Mother!” Charles cried, to bring them to their 

senses. 

But they had both lost all control in their exasperation. Emma 

stamped her foot, repeating: 

“Oh, what breeding! What a peasant! 

He ran to his mother; she was beside herself; she kept stam¬ 
mering: “She's insolent! Giddy! Worse, perhaps!” 

And she insisted upon leaving at once, if the other would not 
come and apologize to her. Charles returned to his wife and im¬ 
plored her to yield: he fell on his knees; in the end she answered: 
“Very well, Fm coming.” 

Indeed, she did hold out her hand to her mother-in-law with the 
dignity of a marquise, saying: 

“Forgive me, Madame.” 


163 



Then, going back upstairs to her room, Emma flung herself face 
down on the bed and cried like a child, her head burrowed into 
the pillow. 

They had agreed, she and Rodolphe, that in the case of an 
extraordinary occurrence she would attach a small strip of white 
paper to the window blind, so that if by chance he happened to be 
in Yonville he would hurry to the little street behind the house. 
Emma made the signal; she had been waiting for three-quarters 
of an hom when she suddenly caught sight of Rodolphe at the 
corner of the market buildings. She was tempted to open the 
window, to call to him; but he had already disappeared. She 
relapsed into despair. 

Soon, however, it seemed to her that someone was walking back 
and forth on the sidewalk. It was he, without a doubt; she went 
downstairs, crossed the cointyard. He was there, outside. She 
flung herself into his arms. 

“Be careful,” he said. 

“Oh, if you knewl” she said. 

And she began to tell him everything, in haste, without coherence, 
exaggerating the facts, inventing many of them, and interspersing 
parentheses so lavishly that he understood nothing of what she 
said. 

“Now, now, my poor angel, be brave, it will be all right, be 
patient.” 

“But it’s been four years now that IVe been patient and sufEeredl 
. . . A love like ours ought to be avowed before heavenl They’re 
tortining me. I can’t stand any more. Take me awayl” 

She pressed herself against Rodolphe. Her eyes, full of tears, 
glimmered like flames under water; her throat breathed in short 
gasps; never had he loved her so much, with the result that he lost 
his head and said; 

“What shall we do? What do you want?” 

“Take me awayl” she cried. “Take me awayl . . . Oh, I beg youl” 

And she clung to his mouth as if to snatch from it the imantici- 
pated consent which was breathed out in a kiss. 

“But ...” Rodolphe began. 

“Well, what?” 

“Yom" daughter?” 


164 



She considered for a few moments, then answered: 

“Well take her with us, I’m afraid.” 

“What a woman!” he thought, watching her move away. 

For she had slipped back into the garden. Someone was calling 

her. 

The elder Madame Bovary, in the days that followed, was vastly 
astonished at the metamorphosis of her daughter-in-law. In truth, 
Emma displayed more docility, and even carried deference to the 
lengths of asking her for a recipe for pickling gherkins. She was 
hving as if submerged in anticipatory savoring of her coming 
happiness. It was an incessant subject of conversations with Ro- 
dolphe. She would lean against his shoulder, she would murmur: 

“Ah, when we are in the mail-coach! . .. Do you think about that? 
Is it possible? It seems to me that the moment I feel the coach set 
out it will be as if we were going up in a balloon, as if we were 
starting out for the clouds. Do you realize that I m coxmting the 

days? . . . What about you?” 

Never had Madame Bovary been so beautiful as during those 
days; she had that indefinable beauty which is the result of joy, 
ardor, success, and which is no more than the harmony of tempera¬ 
ment with circumstances. Her desires, her sorrows, the experience 
of pleasure and her illusions, forever young, had gradually devel¬ 
oped her as rich soil, rain, air and sunhght do flowers, and now at 
last she bloomed in the fullness of her nature. Her eyelids seemed 
shaped expressly for her long loving glances in which the pupils 
were lost, while a deep breath widened her narrow nostrils and 
lifted the soft comer of her lips, lightly shadowed by a trace of 
black down. One would have said that an artist versed in corrup¬ 
tion had arranged the knot of hair low on her neck: it was rolled 
into a heavy mass, carelessly, after the casual fashion of adultery 
which daily loosened it. Her voice now took on softer inflections, 
her figure, too; something subtle and penetrating was exhaled from 
the very folds of her gown and the arch of her foot. Charles, as in 
the first days of their marriage, found her enchanting and utterly 
irresistible. 

When he came home in the middle of the night he did not dare 
to wake her. The porcelain night-lamp sent a circle of tremulous 
light to the ceiling, and the closed curtains of the little cradle 

165 



made a sort of white hut swelling up out of the shadow at the 
side of the bed. Charles would look at them. He would think that 
he heard his child’s light breathing. Ah, how pretty she would be, 
later on, at fifteen, when, looking like her mo^er, she would wear 
wide-brimmed straw hats in the summer time, as she didl From a 
distance they would be taken for sisters. He imagined her working 
beside them in the evening, in the lamplight; she would embroider 
slippers for him; she would take an interest in the housekeeping; 
she would fill the whole house with her grace and her merriment. 

Emma was not sleeping; she pretended to be asleep; and, while 
he dozed off at her side, she would rouse herself with other dreams. 

By four horses going at a gallop, she had been carried away a 
week before to a new country whence they would never return. 
They went on, went on, their arms about one another, not speaking. 
Often, from a mountain height, they suddenly caught sight of some 
magnificent city with domes, bridges, sailing vessels, groves of 
lemon trees and white marble cathedrals whose pointed spires were 
topped with storks’ nests. And then, one evening, they reached a 
fishing village where brovim nets were drying in the wind along 
the shore and beside the cottages. It was here that they settled 
down to live; they would live in a low flat-roofed house shaded by 
a palm tree, at the far end of a bay beside the sea. They would sail 
in a gondola, swing in a hammock; and their life would be easy 
and ample as their silk garments, warm and starry as the soft 
nights at which they would gaze. 

She had sent for Monsieur Lheureux and told him: 

“I shall need a cloak, a big cloak with a long collar, interlined.” 

“You’re going on a trip?” he asked. 

No, but . . . never mind, I’m counting on you, do you imder- 
stand? And quickly.” 

He bowed. 

‘T shall also need a trunk,” she went on. “Not too heavy . . , con¬ 
venient.” 

“Yes, yes, I understand. About ninety-two centimeters by fifty, 
the way they’re making them now.” 

“And a suitcase.” 

“There is definitely,” Lheureux thought, “some kind of carrying- 
on behind all this.” 


166 



“And here,” Madame Bovary said, pulling her watch from her 
belt, “take this: you can pay yourself out of it.” 

But the storekeeper cried that she was mistaken; they knew one 
another; did he doubt her? This was childish! However, she insisted 
that he at least keep the chain, and Lheureux had already put it 
into his pocket and was leaving when she called him back. 

“You’re to leave everything at your shop. As for the cloak—” she 
seemed to ponder—“no, don’t bring that, either; just give me the 
name of the tailor and tell them to hold it ready for me.” 

It was the following month that they were to go. She was to leave 
from Yonville as if for a shopping trip to Rouen. Rodolphe would 
have reserved seats, secured passports and even written to Paris 
to engage the whole coach as far as Marseilles where they would 
buy a carriage and, from there, proceed without stopping, by the 
Genes road. She would have taken care to send her luggage to 
Lheureux* shop, whence it would be taken directly to the Hiron- 
delle, so that no one would suspect anything; and, in all this, the 
question of her child had never come up. Rodolphe avoided speak¬ 
ing of it; perhaps she did not think of it. 

He wanted two more weeks ahead of him for settling a few 
business matters; then, at the end of one week, he demanded two 
more, then he said that he was ill; later he went on a trip; the 
month of August passed and, after all these delays, they agreed 
to fix irrevocably upon the fourth of September, a Monday. 

At length the Saturday, two days before, arrived. 

Rodolphe came in the evening, earlier than usual. 

“Are you ready?" she asked him. 

“Yes.” 

They strolled all around one of the flower beds, then, and went 
to sit down near the terrace, on the coping of the wall. 

“You are sad,” Emma said. 

“No. Why?" 

And yet he was looking at her oddly, in a tender manner. 

“Is it because of going away?” she asked. “Leaving the things 
you are fond of, your life here? Oh, I understand . . . But as for 
me, I have nothing in the world, you are everything to me. So I 
shall be everything to you. I’ll be a family, a country to you; I’ll 
take care of you, I’ll love you.” 


167 



“How lovely you arel” he said, clasping her in his arms. 

“Truly?’' she said with a voluptuous laugh. “Do you love me? 
Swear it, then.” 

“Do I love you! Do I love you! I adore you, my love!” 

The moon, fully round and crimson, was rising from the earth 
beyond the prairie. Emma, her eyes half closed, drew deep sighing 
breaths of the cool wind that was stirring. They did not speak, 
so lost were they in the flood tide of reverie. 

“This beautiful night!” Rodolphe said. 

“We will have others,” Emma said. 

And, as if speaking to herself: 

'Tes, it will be good to travel . . . Yet why is my heart sad? 
Is it dread of the unknown . . . the efiect of habits left behind . . . 
or is it ... ? No, it s too much happiness. How weak I am, am t 
not? Forgive me!” 

“There is still time!” he cried. “Think it over. You will regret it, 
perhaps.” 

“Never!” she said impetuously. 

And, moving closer to him: 

“What unhappiness can come to me? There is no desert, no 
precipice, no ocean that I would not cross with you. As we go on 
together it will be like an embrace, closer and more complete every 
day. We will have nothing to trouble us, no cares, no obstacle. 
We will be alone, all to ourselves, forever . . . Say something, 
answer me.” 

He had been replying at regular intervals: “Yes . . . Yes . . She 
was stroking his hair with her hands, and she kept repeating in a 
childish voice, in spite of great tears that rolled down: 

“Rodolphe! Rodolphe! . . . Ah, Rodolphe, my darling Rodolphe!” 

Twelve o’clock struck. 

“Midnight!” she said. “So now it s tomorrow. One more day!” 

He rose to go; and, as if this gesture of his had been the signal 
for their flight, Emma suddenly assumed an air of gaiety. 

“You have the passports?” 

“Yes.” 

“You’re not forgetting anything?” 

“No.” 

“You’re sure?” 


168 


J 



“Certainly.” 

“It’s the Hotel de Provence, isn’t it, where you’ll be waiting for 
me ... at noon!” 

He nodded. 

“Until tomorrow, then!” Emma said, in one last embrace. 

And she watched him go. 

He did not turn back. She ran after him and, leaning over toward 
the water’s edge between the bushes: 

“Until tomorrow!” she cried. 

He was already on the other side of the river, walking rapidly 
over the prairie. 

After a few minutes Rodolphe stopped; and when he saw her 
with her white dress gradually fade away in the shadows like a 
ghost, he was overcome by such a palpitation of the heart that he 
leaned against a tree to keep from falling. 

“What a fool I am!” he said, swearing violently. “Never mind, 
she made a lovely mistress.” 

And at once Emma’s beauty, along with all the pleasures of that 
love, appeared to him again. At first he softened, then he rebelled 
against her. 

“For after all,” he exclaimed, gesticulating, “I can’t expatriate 
myself, be burdened with a child.” 

He told himself these things to strengthen him further in his 
purpose. 

“And besides, the nuisance, the expense . . . Oh, no, no, a thou¬ 
sand times no! That would have been too stupid!” 




169 



JS 


more than arrived home, 

Rodolphe sat down abruptly at his desk, 
beneath the stag’s head mounted upon the wall. But 
when he had the pen in his fingers he was unable to find words, so 
that, leaning on his two elbows, he fell to thinking deeply. Emma 
seemed to him to have withdrawn into a distant past, as if the 
resolution to which he had come had suddenly placed an immense 
space between them. 

In order to recover something of her, he went to the cupboard 
at the head of his bed to get out the old Rheims biscuit-box in 
which he habitually kept his letters from women, and from it 
drifted an odor of damp rust and withered roses. First he saw a 
pocket handkerchief covered with small faded stains. It was hers, 
once she had had a nosebleed while they were out walking; he no 
longer remembered it. Next, with all its comers dog-eared, the 
miniature Emma had given him; her costume seemed pretentious 
to him, and her glance pathetically theatrical; then, through study¬ 
ing this image and summoning the memory of the model, he found 
that Emma’s features gradually became confused in his recollection, 
as if the living face and the painted one, rubbing against one 
another, had become mutually obliterated. At length he read some 
of her letters; they were full of explanations concerning their 
journey, short, technical and hurried as business memoranda. He 
wanted to look at the long ones again, those of earlier days; to 
find them, at the bottom of the box, Rodolphe pushed all the others 
aside; and he began to paw mechanically through that jumbled heap 
of papers and objects, coining across bouquets, a garter, a black 
mask, pins and locks of hair—quantities of hair!—some dark, some 
fair; there was even some clinging to the clasp of the box, breaking 
when it was opened. 


170 



Thus wandering idly among his keepsakes, he studied the hand¬ 
writings and styles of the letters, as varied as their spelling. They 
were tender or merry, facetious, melancholy; there were some that 
asked for love and others that asked for money. An occasional word 
recalled a face, a certain gesture, the sound of a voice; sometimes, 
however, he could remember nothing. 

Actually these women, thronging simultaneously into his mind, 
obstructed one another and dwarfed one another as if subjected 
to a common leveling process of love which equalized them. So 
taking a handful of their mixed letters, he amused himself for 
several minutes letting them cascade from his right hand to his 
left. At last, bored and drowsy, Rodolphe went to put the box 
away again in the cupboard, saying to himself: “What nonsense! . . 

Which summed up his attitude; for pleasures, like students in a 
school yard, had so trampled his heart that no green thing grew 
there, and those who passed that way, more heedless than children, 
did not even leave their names scratched into the wall as they did. 
“Come now,” he said to himself, ‘let’s get started.” 

He wrote: 

Be brave, Emma, he brave! I cannot bring myself to ruin 
your life . . . 

“After all, that’s true,” Rodolphe thought. “I am acting in her 
interest; 1 am honest.” 

Have you soberly weighed your decision? Do you realize 
into what abyss I was dragging you, poor angel? The answer 
is no, isnt it? You were going along, confiding and reckless, 
believing in happiness, in the future . . . Ah, unfortunate crea¬ 
tures that we are! Insane! 

Rodolphe paused here to seek some valid excuse. 

“Suppose I told her that my whole fortune is lost? . . . Oh, no, 
besides that wouldn’t present any obstacle. This would just begin 
all over again later on. Can women like that be made to listen to 
reason?” 

He pondered, then added: 

I shall not forget you, believe me, and I shall always have 
a deep devotion for you; but one day, sooner or later, this ardor 
would have cooled, that is the way of human nature! Weari¬ 
ness would have come to us, and who knows but that I might 

171 



even have suffered the hideous torment of watching your re¬ 
morse and participating in it myself, since 1 should have been 
the cause of it. The mere thought of sorrow coming to you 
tortures me, Emma. Forget me! Why did I have to meet you? 
Why were you so beautiful? Wtw it my fault? Oh, dear God, 
no, no! Accuse only fate! 

“There’s a word that always has an efiect,” he thought. 

Oh, if you had been one of those frivolous-hearted women 
such as one sees, then certainly, out of vanity, I could have 
attempted an affair without danger to you. But that wonderful 
exaltation which is at once your charm and your scourge, pre¬ 
vented you from understanding, adorable woman that you are, 
the falseness of our future position. I too had not considered 
it at first, and 1 was relaxing in the shade of that ideal happi¬ 
ness as in that of the manchineel tree, without foreseeing the 
consequences. 

“Perhaps she is going to think that it’s out of avarice I’m giving 
her up . . . Oh, never mind, so much the worsel I’ve got to get it 
over with.” 

The world is cruel, Emma. Wherever we might have gone, 
it would have hounded us. You would have had to face in¬ 
discreet questions, slander, contempt, perhaps deliberate insult 
Insult to you! Oh! . . . And I who wanted to put you on a 
throne! who will carry the thought of you like a talisman! For 
I am going to punish myself with exile for all the harm I have 
done you. I am going away. Where? I do not know, 1 am mad. 
Good-by! Always be kind. Keep the memory of the unfortunate 
soul who was your ruin. Teach my name to your child, that 
she may repeat it in her prayers. 

The two candle flames were trembling. Rodolphe rose to shut 
the window and, when he had sat down again: 

“I believe that’s all. Ah, there’s still this, for fear she might come 
trying to start me ofE again:” 

1 shall be far away when you read these sad lines; for I want 
to run away as quickly as possible, to avoid the temptation of 
seeing you again. No weakness! I shall return; and perhaps 
some day we will talk together quite coolly about our old love 
affair. Adieu! 


172 


And there was a last farewell, divided into two words: A Dieu! 
which he considered to be in excellent taste. 

‘'How am I to sign myself, now?** he wondered. “Your devoted 
... No. Your friend? . .. Yes, that s it.” 

Your friend. 

He reread his letter. It seemed good to him. 

‘Toor little thin g!” he thought with sudden tenderness. “She’s 
going to think me more unfeeling than a stone; there should be a 
few teardrops on it, but I can’t cry; it’s not my fault.” Then, having 
poured some water into a glass, Rodolphe dipped his finger into it 
and let one big drop fall from above, making a pale spot on the 
ink; after that, as he was about to seal the letter the Amor nel Cor 
seal came to hand. 

“It’s hardly appropriate under the circumstances . . . Oh, non¬ 
sense! What’s the difference?” 

After which he smoked three pipes and went to bed. 

The next day when he arose (at about two o’clock, he had slept 
late), Rodolphe had a basket of apricots picked. He laid the letter 
in the bottom, under some vine leaves, and immediately ordered 
Girard, his manservant, to deliver it tactfully to Madame Bovary. 
He made use of this means of corresponding with her, sending 
her fruit or game according to the season. 

‘If she asks you for news of me,” he said, “you’re to tell her that 
I’ve left on a journey. You must deliver the basket to her, herself, 
into her own hands . . . Go along, and be careful!” 

Girard put on his new blouse, tied his handkerchief over the 
apricots and set off tranquilly on the road to Yonville, walking with 
great heavy strides in his big hobnailed clogs. 

When he reached her house, Madame Bovary, with F61icit4, was 
arranging a bimdle of linen on the kitchen table. 

“Here is something our master sent you,” the manservant said. 

She was overcome by apprehension and, searching in her pocket 
for some coins, she stared at the peasant with a haggard eye, 
while he, for his part, gazed at her dumfounded, not imderstanding 
why such a gift should so move anyone. He left at last. F41icit6 
remained. Emma could endure no longer; she hurried into the 
sitting room, as if to leave the apricots there, turned out the 
basket, snatched away the leaves, foimd the letter, opened it and, 

173 



as if there had been a terrible fire behind her, she ran to her room, 
utterly dismayed. 

Charles was there, she saw him; he spoke to her, she heard 
nothing, and she continued swiftly up the stairs, breathless, be¬ 
wildered, distracted-and still holding that horrible sheet of paper 
that crackled in her fingers like a strip of sheet metal. On the 
second floor she paused in front of the storeroom door, which was 
closed. 

Now she tried to calm herself; she remembered the letter; she 
must finish it, she did not dare. Besides, where? How? Someone 
would see her. 

“Ah, no,” she thought, “here I'll be safe.” 

Emma pushed open the door and went in. 

The roof-tiles sent down a thick heat which pressed upon her 
temples and stifled her; she dragged herself to the closed dormer 
window, pulled back its bolt, and the dazzling light flooded in. 

Opposite, beyond the rooftops, the open country stretched as far 
as the eye could reach. Below, beneath her, the village square was 
empty; the pebbles of the sidewalk glittered, the weather vanes 
on the houses stood motionless; at the comer of the street a kind 
of snoring sound interspersed with strident modulations came from 
a lower story. It was Binet working at his lathe. 

She leaned against the window embrasure and reread the letter 
with sneering anger. But the more she fixed her attention upon it, 
the more confused her ideas became. She was seeing him again, 
she was waiting for him, she was encircling him with her arms; 
and palpitations of the heart, which was beating beneath her 
breast in great strokes like the clapper of a bell, came swiftly one 
after the other at unequal intervals. She cast her eyes all about 
her in the hope that the earth might be crumbling to ruin. Why 
not make an end of it? What was there to hold her back? She was 
free. And as she leaned forward, she stared at the stones of the street, 
muttering: “Nowl Nowl” 

The luminous streak that reflected up from below was drawing 
the weight of her body toward the abyss. It seemed to her that the 
whirling earth of the square was rising up along the walls, and 
that the floor was tipping forward like a pitching ship. She stood 
on the extreme edge, almost hanging, surrounded by vast space. 
The blue of the sky flooded into her, the wind eddied through her 

174 



vacant head, she had only to give up, to let herself go; and the 
snarling of the lathe went on and on like a furious voice which 
was calling her. 

“My wifel My wifel” Charles shouted. 

She paused. “Where are you? Come here!” 

The thought that she had just escaped death all but made her 
faint with terror; she closed her eyes; then she shuddered at the 
touch of a hand on her sleeve: it was Felicite. 

“Monsieur is waiting for you, Madame. Dinner is served.” 

And she must go down, she must sit at the tablel 

She tried to eat. The bites of food strangled her. Then she un¬ 
folded her napkin as if to examine its weave and actually tried to 
concentrate upon this effort, to count the threads of the material. 
Suddenly the memory of the letter returned to her. Had she lost 
it? Where should she look for it? But her spirit was so overcome 
by lassitude that she could never have invented a pretext for leaving 
the table. Then, too, she had become cowardly; she was afraid 
of Charles; he knew everything, that was sure! Indeed, strangely 
enough, he spoke these words: 

“It seems we won’t be seeing Monsieur Rodolphe soon.” 

“Who told you?” she said, trembling. 

“Who told me?” he repUed, somewhat surprised by her abrupt 
tone. “It was Girard, I met him just now at the door of the Cafd 
Frangais. He has gone on a trip, or is going to go.” 

She caught her breath. 

“What’s so surprising? He goes away like that from time to 
time for diversion, and by Jove I think he’s right. When one has a 
fortune and is a bachelor! ... Besides, he has a fine time, our friend 
does. He’s quite a fellow! Monsieur Langlois was telling me . . . ” 

He fell silent, out of propriety, because the servant came. 

She replaced in the basket the apricots scattered on the side- 
table; Charles, not noticing his wife’s flush, had her bring them 
to him, took one and bit it. 

“Oh, perfect!” he said. “Here, taste.” 

And he held out the basket which she gently pushed away. 

“Smell them, then: what an aroma!” he said, passing them back 
and forth imder her nose several times. 

“I’m choking!” she cried, leaping to her feet. 

But, by means of sheer will power this spasm was overcome. 

175 



"It’s nothing,” she said, “it’s nothing. It’s my nerves. Sit down, 
eat.” For she dreaded being questioned, watched over, never left 
alone again. 

Charles, to obey her, had sat down again and was spitting 
apricot pits into his hand and then dropping them onto his plate. 

Suddenly a blue tilbury drove past in the square at a fast trot. 
Emma cried out and fell rigid to the floor, backward. 

Rodolphe, indeed, had decided after deep reflection to leave for 
Rouen. Now, as there is no other road from La Huchette to Buchy 
than the one through Yonville, he had had to drive through the 
village, and Emma had recognized him by the light of the lanterns 
which sliced through the twilight like a lightning flash. 

The pharmacist, at the tumult that was heard from the house, 
hurried over. The table, vrith all the plates upon it, had been over¬ 
turned; gravy, meat, knives, the salt cellar and the oil cruet were 
strewed about the room; Charles was calling for help; Berthe, 
terrified, was screaming: and F41icit4, whose hands were shaking, 
was unlacing Madame, who was having convulsive spasms all along 

her body. 

“I am going to run and get a bit of aromatic vinegar from my 
laboratory,” the apothecary said. 

Then, as she reopened her eyes, inhaling from the vial: 

“I was sure of it,” he said. "This would wake the dead for you.” 

“Speak to us!” Charles was saying. “Speak to us. Wake up. It's 
me, your Charles who loves you. Do you know me? Look, here's 
your little girl: put your aims around her.” 

The child stretched out her arms to her mother to put them 
around her neck. But, turning her head away, Emma said in a 

broken voice, “No, no . . . nobody.” 

She lost consciousness again. They carried her to her bed. 

She lay there, stretched out, her mouth open, her eyes closed, 
her hands flat, motionless and white as a wax statue. From her 
eyes streams of tears crept slowly down to the pillow slip. 

Charles stood at the foot of the alcove and the pharmacist, 
beside him, maintained that thoughtful silence which it is proper 
to keep on the serious occasions of life. 

“Set your mind at rest,” he said, touching his elbow, ‘T think the 

paroxysm is over.” 

'Tes, she's relaxing a little now,” Charles answered, watching her 
sleep. “Poor woman . . . poor woman! She's had a relapse!” 

176 



Then Homais asked how the accident had occurred. Charles 
rephed that it had come over her all of a sudden while she was 
eating apricots. 

“Extraordinary!” the pharmacist said. “But it may be that apricots 
have caused syncope. There are natures that are so sensitive to 
certain odors. It might be a rewarding question to study, as much 
from the pathological aspect as from the psychological. Priests are 
aware of the importance of it, theyVe always mixed aromatics with 
their ceremonies, IPs intended to stupefy your intellect and bring 
on a state of exaltation, a thing that is easily accomplished, in any 
case, with persons of the female sex, who are more delicate than 
others. Cases have been cited who faint at the smell of burned corn, 
fresh bread ...” 

“Take care you don’t wake her,” Bovary said softly. 

“And not only are human beings aflFected by these anomalies,” 
the apothecary continued, “but animals as well. For instance, you 
are not unfamiliar with the singularly aphrodisiac eflFect produced 
by nepeta cataria, commonly known as catnip, on the feline race; 
and, on the other hand, to quote an example I know to be authentic, 
Bridoux (one of my old classmates, now established in the Rue 
Malpalu) owns a dog who is seized with convulsions whenever he 
is confronted with a snuffbox. He even used to conduct the ex¬ 
periment frequently, in the presence of his friends, at his summer¬ 
house in the Bois Guillaume. Can one believe that a simple ster¬ 
nutatory could cause such ravages in the organism of a quadruped? 
It’s extremely curious, isn’t it?” 

“Yes,” said Charles, who was not listening. 

“That proves to us,” the other went on, smiling with an air of 
benign complacency, “the innumerable irregularities of the nervous 
system. As regards Madame, she had always, I confess, seemed to 
me to be a true sensitive plant. In view of which, my dear friend, 
I do not recommend any of the so-called remedies which, under 
pretext of attacking the symptoms, attack the constitution. No, no 
vain medication. Diet, thaPs the whole thingl Sedatives, emollients, 
antacids. Then, too, don’t you think it might perhaps help to appeal 
to the imagination?” 

“In what? How?” Bovary said, 

“Ah, that’s the question! That is definitely the question. As I was 

177 



reading just the other day in the newspaper, the English put it: 
That is the questionr 

But Emma, rousing, cried out: “The letter? The letter?** 

They thought her delirious; she was, from midnight on: brain 
fever had set in. 

For forty-three days Charles did not leave her side. He forsook 
all his patients; he id not go to bed; he was continually taking 
her pulse, applying mustard plasters, cold compresses. He sent 
Justin to Neufchatel to get ice; the ice melted on the way back; 
he sent him again. He called Monsieur Canivet in consultation; he 
sent to Rouen for Doctor Larivi^re, his former professor; he was 
in despair. The most terrifying thing to him was Emma*s prostra¬ 
tion; for she did not speak, heard nothing and seemed not even 
to suffer—as if her body and her soul were resting together after 
all their disturbances. 

Toward the middle of October she was able to sit up in bed 
with pillows behind her. Charles wept when he saw her eat her 
first jam-tart. Strength returned to her; she could get up for a few 
hours during the afternoon and, one day when she felt better, he 
tried to get her to walk around the garden on his arm. The sand 
of the paths was all but hidden under dead leaves; she walked, 
one foot after the other, dragging her slippers and, leaning against 
Charles* shoulder, she continued to smile. 

They walked thus to the end of the garden, by the terrace. She 
drew herself up slowly, shaded her eyes with her hand to see: 
she looked out, far out; but on the horizon were only a few great 
grass-fires smoking on the hills. 

“You*re going to tire yourself, my dear,” Bovary said. 

And, urging her gently toward the arbor: 

“Sit down on this bench: you will be all right.** 

“Oh, no, not there! Not there!** she said in a faltering voice. 

She lost consciousness, and from that evening on her illness 
recommenced, with more uncertain symptoms, it is true, and a more 
complex nature. Now she felt pain at her heart, now in her breast, 
her head, her limbs; she was attacked by spasms of vomiting in 
which Charles thought he recognized the first symptoms of cancer. 

And on top of all this, the poor fellow had money worries! 


178 




msT, he did not know how he 
was to reimburse Monsieur Homais for all the 
medications bought from him; and although, as a doctor, 
he need not have p^id for them, still he was embarrassed over this 
obligation. Then the household expenses, now that the cook was in 
charge, were shocking; it rained bills in the house; the shopkeepers 
were muttering; Monsieur Lheureux in particular kept harassing 
him. As a matter of fact, when Emma's illness was at its height, 
Lheureux, profiting by the circumstances to increase his bill, had 
promptly delivered the cloak, the dressing-case, two trunks instead 
of one, a quantity of other things. In vain Charles repeated that he 
did not need them, the merchant replied arrogantly that all these 
articles had been ordered from him and that he would not take 
them back; besides, it would vex Madame during her convalescence; 
Monsieur had better think it over; in short, he was determined to 
go to court rather than give up his rights and take back his mer¬ 
chandise. Charles immediately ordered them sent back to his shop; 
F61icit6 forgot; he had other concerns on his mind; they did not 
think of it again; Monsieur Lheureux returned to the attack and, 
threatening and whining by turns, maneuvered in such a manner 
that in the end Charles signed a six-month’s note. But scarcely had 
he signed this note when an audacious idea occurred to him: it 
was to borrow a thousand francs from Monsiexn: Lheureux. So, 
with an embarrassed air, he asked if there were not some way of 
obtaining this sum, adding that it would be for one year and at 
whatever rate of interest was required. Lheureux hastened to his 
shop, brought back the 6cus and dictated another note in which 
Bovary stated that he was to pay, on the first day of the following 
September, the sum of one thousand and seventy francs, which, 
added to the one hundred and eighty already stipulated, made 
precisely twelve hundred and fifty. 

179 



Charles wondered several times how, during the next year, he 
was to repay all that money; and he racked his brains, imagined 
expedients such as appealing to his father or selling something. But 
his father would turn a deaf ear, and he himself had nothing to 
sell. Then he found himself in such difficulties that he promptly 
put out of his mind so disagreeable a subject for meditation. He 
reproached himself for neglecting Emma because of it; as if, all 
his thoughts rightfully belonging to his wife, failing to think about 
her continually would have been robbing her of something. 

It was a harsh winter. Madame’s convalescence was long. When 
the weatlier was fair they pushed her over to the window in her 
armchair, the window that overlooked the square, for she now had 
an aversion for the garden, and the blind on that side remained 
always closed. She wanted the horse sold; what she had once loved 
was now disagreeable to her. All her ideas seemed limited to 
caring for herself. She would lie in bed nibbling at small light 
meals, ring for the servant to inquire about tisanes or to chat with 
her. Meanwhile the snow on the market roofs cast a motionless 
white light into the bedroom; later there was the falling rain. And 
Emma awaited daily, with a kind of anxiety, the inevitable recur¬ 
rence of the most minute events, which nevertheless meant nothing 
to her. The most important was the arrival of the Hirondelle, in 
the evening. Then the hostess of the inn would call out and other 
voices answer while Hippolyte^s torch, as he reached up to the 
luggage carrier for boxes, was like a star in the gloom. At noon 
Charles came in; later he went out; then she would take a cup of 
broth and, about five o’clock, at dusk, the children who were re¬ 
turning from school, dragging their wooden shoes along the side¬ 
walk, would all strike the slats of the shutters with their rulers, 
one after the other. 

It was at this hour that Monsieur Boumisien came to visit her. 
He would ask after her health, bring her news and ply her with 
religion in a coaxing little talk that was not without charm. The 
mere sight of his cassock comforted her. 

One day when, at the height of her illness, she had believed 
herself to be dying, she had asked for Commimion; and, in pro¬ 
portion as the preparations for the sacrament were made in the 
room, as the chest of drawers, littered with medicine bottles was 

180 



arranged as an altar, and Felicite strewed dahlia flowers on the 
floor, Emma felt some potent force pass over her which relieved her 
of all her pain, all perception, all emotion. Her flesh, unburdened, 
no longer had weight, a new life was beginning; it seemed to her 
that her being, rising up toward God, was about to dissolve in 
that love like burning incense which is dissipated in smoke. Holy 
water was sprinkled on the sheets of her bed; the priest lifted the 
white host from the sacred pyx; and it was swooning with celestial 
joy that she thrust out her lips to accept the offered body of the 
Saviour. Her spirit, rigid with pride, at last relaxed in Christian 
humility; and, savoring the pleasure of being weak, Emma con¬ 
templated within herself the destruction of her own will, which was 
destined to leave a wide doorway open for the incoming of grace. 
She wanted to become a saint. She bought rosaries, she wore 
amulets; she longed for an emerald-studded reliquary to keep in 
her room at the head of her bed, to receive her nightly kiss. 

As for the memory of Rodolphe, she had thrust it far down to 
the bottom of her heart, and there it remained, more solemn and 
more immobile than a king's mummy in a subterranean vault. 
From this embalmed passion drifted an emanation which, permeat¬ 
ing all things, gave a caressing fragrance to the immaculate at¬ 
mosphere in which she wished to live. When she knelt at her 
Gothic prie-dieu, she spoke to God in the same sweet words she 
had once murmured to her lover in the outpourings of adultery. 
It was for the purpose of inducing belief; but no sensation of 
rapture descended to her from heaven; and she would rise, her 
legs wearied, with a vague consciousness of having been vastly 
cheated. This quest, she felt, was but an added merit; and in the 
pride of her piety, Emma compared herself to those great ladies 
of other days who, sweeping the embroidered trains of their long 
gowns so majestically, had retreated into solitude, there to shed 
at Christ's feet all the tears of hearts wounded by life. 

Then she dedicated herself to extravagant acts of charity; she 
sewed garments for the poor; she sent firewood to women in child¬ 
birth; and Charles, returning to the house one day, found three 
beggars in the kitchen, seated around the table eating soup. She 
sent for her little girl, whom her husband had sent back to the 
nurse during her illness. She insisted upon teaching her to read; 

181 



no matter how Berthe wept she did not become irritated. This 
was the course of resignation she had adopted, a universal in¬ 
dulgence. Her language on all subjects was full of graceful expres¬ 
sions. Madame Bovary senior found nothing to criticize. 

In addition to the company of her mother-in-law, who strength¬ 
ened her somewhat with her rectitude and her sober manners, 
Emma had other visitors almost every day. There were Ma¬ 
dame Langlois, Madame Caron, Madame Dubreuil, Madame Tu- 
vache and regularly, from two to five, the excellent Madame Homais, 
who had never been willing to believe any of the scandalous 
rumors which were circulated about her neighbor. The Homais 
children also came to see her; Justin accompanied them. He would 
come up to the bedroom with them and stand there, near the door, 
motionless, not speaking. There were even times when Madame 
Bovary, forgetting about him, began to dress. She commenced by 
pulling the comb out of her hair, shaking her head in an abrupt 
motion; and the first time he saw that cascade of hair which hung 
down below her knees as its black coils unwound, it was for him, 
poor boy, like suddenly being admitted to something extraordinary 
and new, the splendor of which terrified him. 

Emma, of course, did not notice his silent intentness nor his 
timidity. She never suspected that love, vanished from her life, 
was throbbing there beside her, beneath that coarse cotton shirt, 
in that adolescent heart laid open to the emanations of her beauty. 
In addition, she now surrounded everything with such indifference, 
she used words so affectionate and glances so scornful, manners 
so contradictory, that there was no longer any distinguishing be¬ 
tween selfishness and charity, nor between corruption and virtue. 
One evening, for example, she flew into a rage with her servant, 
who had asked to be allowed to go out and was stammering as she 
searched for a pretext. Suddenly: 

“So youVe in love with him?"^ she said. 

And, without waiting for an answer from F61icit6, who was 
blushing, she added sorrowfully: 

“Go ahead, go to him. Have a good time!” 

Early in the spring she had the garden changed all around, from 
one end to the other, in spite of Bovary^s comments; nevertheless 
he was happy at seeing her manifest any sort of volition. She gave 

182 



further evidences of it as her recovery progressed. First she found 
a way of ejecting Mere Rollet, the nurse, who had formed the habit, 
during her illness, of coming too often to the kitchen with her two 
charges and her boarder, who had the appetite of a cannibal. Then 
she shook off the Homais family, dismissed all the other visitors 
one after another and even frequented the church less assiduously, 
to the vast approval of the apothecary, who said amiably: 

“You were turning into a priest!” 

Monsieur Boumisien called every day, as before, after catechism 
class. He preferred to sit outdoors to take the air “in the bower,* as 
he called the arbor. It was the hour at which Charles usually came 
home. The men would feel warm; cider would be brought, and they 
would drink together to Madame’s complete recovery. 

Binet would be there, or rather a little lower down, at the ter¬ 
race wall, fishing for crayfish. Bovary would invite him to take a 
little refreshment, and he was expert at uncorking bottles. 

“What you have to do,” he would say, casting a satisfied glance 
about him and out to the far edges of the countryside, is to hold 
the bottle straight up and down on the table, so, and after the wires 
are cut, work the cork up gently, gently, a little at a time, the way 
they do with seltzer water in restaurants.” 

But often during his demonstration the cider would spurt out 
full in their faces, and then the priest, with a gelatinous laugh, 
never failed to produce his joke: 

“Its goodness leaps to the eye!” 

Indeed, he was a good fellow, and was not even shocked by the 
pharmacist, who was advising Charles, one day, to take Madame to 
the theater in Rouen to hear the celebrated tenor Lagardy, by way 
of distraction. 

This notion of going to the theater rapidly took root in Bovary s 
mind; for he at once spoke of it to his wife, who at first refused, on 
the ground of fatigue, the trouble, the expense; but for once in his 
life Charles did not yield, so convinced was he that this diversion 
would be beneficial to her. He could see no obstacle to it; his 
mother had sent three himdred francs upon which he had not 
counted, there was nothing enormous about his current debts, and 
the expiration date of his notes to Monsieur Lheureux was so far 
away that he did not have to think about them. Imagining, in addi- 


183 



tion, that she was prompted by scruples, Charles insisted the more; 
with the result that in the end, under pressure, she was persuaded. 
And the next day at eight oclock they were packed into the 

Hirondelle. 

The apothecary, who had nothing to keep him in Yonville, but 
considered himself under obligation not to set foot out of it, sighed 
as he watched them go. 

“Well, have a good trip,” he said to them, “lucky mortals that 
you arel” 

Then, addressing Emma, who was wearing a blue silk dress with 
four flounces: 

“You look as pretty as a picture. You re going to cut quite a figure 
in Rouenl” 

The diligence stopped at the Crowc-Rowge hotel in the Place 
Beauvoisine. It was one of those inns such as are found in all 
provincial suburbs, with large stables and small bedrooms. Charles 
immediately set about getting seats. He confused the stage boxes 
with the galleries, the pit &gt;vith the boxes, demanded explanations, 
did not understand them, was sent from the box oflBce to the direc¬ 
tor, returned to the inn, went back to the theater and in this man¬ 
ner strode the whole length of the town several times, from the 
theater to the boulevard. 

Madame bought herself a hat, gloves, a bouquet. Monsieur was 
greatly afraid of missing the curtain; and, without having had time 
to swallow a cup of soup, they presented themselves at the doors 
of the theater, which were still closed. 


184 




crowd stood against the wall, 
packed symmetrically in between balustrades. 

At the comers of the adjacent streets gigantic posters 
repeated in baroque characters: *‘Lucia di Lammermore . . . La- 
gardy . . . Opera . . . etc.” It was a fine evening; everyone felt the 
heat; perspiration started out under curled hair, drawn handker¬ 
chiefs all patted at flushed foreheads; and from time to time a mild 
wind blowing up from the river softly stirred the edges of canvas 
awnings hung over taproom doors. 

For fear of appearing ridiculous, Emma insisted on taking a stroll 
upon the promenade overlooking the port before going inside, and 
Bovary, out of prudence, held the tickets in his hand, in his breeches 
pocket, which he kept pressed against his side. 

Her heartbeat quickened in the lobby. She smiled involuntarily 
with vanity, seeing the crowd which pushed through the other cor¬ 
ridor, off to the right, while she walked up the stairs to the dress 
circle. She took a child s pleasure in pushing the wide upholstered 
doors with her finger; she breathed deeply of the dusty odor of 
the corridors and, when she was seated in her box, she arched her 
back with the grace of a duchess. 

Meanwhile, the orchestra's candles were lighted; the chandelier 
was lowered from the ceiling, shedding a sudden gaiety over the 
hall with the sparkling of its prisms; then the musicians came in, 
one after the other, and there was a prolonged hubbub of base 
horns snoring, violins screeching, comets hooting, flutes and flag¬ 
eolets whining. But three knocks were heard on the stage; a roll of 
drums began, the brasses added a few chords and the curtain, ris¬ 
ing, revealed a country landscape. 

She foimd herself among the readings of her youth, set down in 
the midst of Walter Scott. She seemed to hear through the mist the 

185 



sound of Scottish bagpipes echoing over the heather. Too, the 
memory of the novel facilitating her understanding of the libretto, 
she followed the plot phrase by phrase, while indefinable thoughts 
which kept returning to her were at once dissipated by gusts of 
music. She gave herself up to the lulling of melodies and felt her¬ 
self vibrate throughout her whole being as if the violin bows were 
being drawn across her nerves. She had not eyes enough for staring 
at the costumes, the stage settings, the characters, the painted trees 
that rippled as one walked, and the velvet tarn o'shanters, the 
cloaks, the swords, all these things of the imagination which moved 
among the harmonies as in the atmosphere of another world. 

Edgar Lagardy appeared. He had that splendid pallor which 
lends something of the majesty of marble to the ardent races of the 
Midi. His vigorous frame was laced into a brown doublet; a small 
carved dagger swung on his left thigh, and he cast languishing 
glances, flashing his white teeth. It was said that a Polish princess, 
listening to him sing one evening on the shore at Biarritz where 
he was recalking rowboats, had fallen in love with him. She had 
ruined herself for him. He had deserted her for other women, and 
this romantic reputation was of no small service to his arbstic re¬ 
nown. The diplomatic troubadour even took great pains always to 
have a poetic phrase about the fascination of his person and the 
sensibility of his soul inserted into the notices. A fine voice, an 
imperturbable composure, more temperament than intelligence and 
more magniloquence than lyricism combined to enhance that ad¬ 
mirable mountebank character, part hairdresser and part toreador. 

From the first scene he enraptured the audience. He pressed 
Lucia in his arms, he left her, he returned, he seemed to be in 
despair, he indulged in outbursts of anger, then in elegiac warblings 
of infinite sweetness, and the notes welled from his bare throat, in¬ 
terspersed with sobs and tears. Emma leaned forward to gaze at 
him, scratching the velvet of the box with her nails. She filled her 
heart with those melodious lamentations which swelled to the ac¬ 
companiment of the double-basses like the cries of the shipwrecked 
in the tumult of a storm. She recognized all the intoxication and 
anguish of which she had come close to dying. The voice of the 
singer seemed to her no more than the echo of her own conscious¬ 
ness, and that illusion which cast its spell over her, something out 

186 



of her own life. But no one on earth had loved her with such a love. 
He had not wept, like Edgar, that last night in the moonlight when 
they had said to each other: “Tomorrow; tomorrow! , . The theater 
resounded to applause; the entire stretto was begun again; the 
lovers sang of flowers on their grave, of vows, exile, destiny, hope, 
and when they sighed the final farewell, Emma gave a sharp cry 
which was lost in the last chords. 

All her impulse toward disparagement fell away beneath the 
poetry of the role which was taking possession of her and, drawn 
toward the man by the illusion of the character, she tried to imagine 
his life, that resounding, extraordinary, splendid life which she too 
could have led if chance had willed it. They would have met, they 
would have fallen in lovel With him she would have traveled from 
capital to capital through all the kingdoms of Europe, sharing his 
troubles and his pride, gathering up the flowers that were flung to 
him, embroidering his costumes with her own hands; then, every 
evening, from the depths of a box, behind the gold-latticed grille, 
with parted lips she would have received the outpourings of that 
spirit which would have sung for her alone; from the stage, while 
acting his part, he would have looked at her. But now a kind of 
frenzy gripped her: he was looking at her, that was certaini She 
wanted to run to his arms, to take refuge in his strength as in the 
incarnation of love itself, and to say to him, to cry out to him: 
“Take me, carry me away, let us gol Yours, yours, all my ardors and 
all my dreamsl” 

The curtain dropped. 

The odor of gas blended with exhaled breath; the breeze from 
the fans made the atmosphere more stifling. Emma wanted to go 
out; the throng choked the corridors and she fell back into her 
chair with palpitations suffocating her. Charles, afraid of seeing her 
faint, hurried to the refreshment room to get her a glass of orgeat. 

He had great difficulty in regaining his seat, for his elbows were 
jostled at every step because of the glass he was holding in his 
hands, and he even spilled three-quarters of it over the shoulders 
of a woman in evening dress who, feeling the cold liquid trickle 
down her back, screamed like a peacock, as if she were being mur¬ 
dered. Her husband, a mill owner, flew into a rage with the clumsy 
fellow and, while she was mopping at the spots on her beautiful 

187 



cheiTy-colored tafiFeta gown with his handkerchief, he kept mutter¬ 
ing about indemnity, expense and reimbursement in a surly tone. 
Eventually Charles reached his wlfe*s side, completely out of breath, 
saying: “My word, I thought I’d have to stay therel There’s a crowd... 
a crowdl” 

He added: 

“Try to guess whom I met up there? Monsieur Leonl” 

Leonr 

“Himselfl He is going to come and pay his respects to you.” 

And, as he was finishing the words, die former clerk from Yon- 
ville entered the box. 

He held out his hand with the casual manner of a gentleman: 
and Madame Bovary automatically laid hers in it, doubtless obey¬ 
ing the attraction of a stronger will. She had not felt it since that 
spring evening when the rain had fallen on green leaves while they 
said good-by, standing beside the window. But quickly recalling 
herself to the proprieties of the situation, with an effort she shook 
off the torpor of memories and began to stammer swift phrases. 

“Ah, good evening . . . What, you’re here?” 

“Silence!” cried a voice from the pit, for the third act was be¬ 
ginning. 

“So you’re in Rouen?” 

“Yes.” 

“Since when?” 

“Put them out! Put them out!” 

Faces were turning toward them; they fell silent. 

But from that moment on, she no longer listened; and the chorus 
of the guests, the scene between Ashton and his servant, the great 
duo in D major, all took place at a distance for her, as if the in¬ 
struments had become less sonorous and the characters more re¬ 
mote: she was remembering the card games at the pharmacist’s and 
the walk to the nurse’s house, reading in the arbor, quiet talks 
beside the hearth, all of that pathetic love, so quiet and so long, so 
discreet, so tender, which she had meanwhile forgotten. Why 
was it returning, then? What combination of circumstances was 
restoring it to her life? He stood behind her, his shoulder leaning 
against the partition; and from time to time she felt herself shiver 
under the warm breath from his nostrils which stirred her hair. 

188 



‘"Does this amuse you?’' he said, bending so close to her that the 
tip of his mustache brushed her cheek. 

She answered carelessly: 

“Oh, Lord, nol Not particularly.” 

Then he proposed that they leave the theater to go and have ices 
somewhere. 

“Not yet, lets stayl” Bovary said. “Her hair has come undone: 

that’s a sign it’s going to be tragic.” 

But the mad scene held no interest for Emma, and the soloist’s 

voice sounded exaggerated to her. 

“She screams too loudly ” she said, turning to Charles, who was 

listening. 

“Yes . . . perhaps ... a bit,” he said, undecided between his own 
frank pleasure and the respect he paid his wifes opinions. 

Then Leon said, sighing: “It’s so warm . , ,” 

“Insupportable, reallyl” 

“Axe you uncomfortable?” Bovary asked. 

“Yes, I’m stifling: let’s leave.” 

Monsieur Leon delicately laid her long lace shawl over her shoul¬ 
ders, and they all three went to sit on the quay, in the fresh air, 
in front of the plate-glass window of a caf6. First they spoke of 
nothing but her illness, although Emma interrupted Charles from 
time to time, for fear, she said, of boring Monsieur Leon; then he 
told them that he had come to spend two years in one of Rouen’s 
leading oflBces, in order to familiarize himself with legal matters, 
which were different in Normandy from those dealt with in Paris. 
He asked after Berthe, the Homais family, Madame Lefrangois; and, 
as they had nothing further to say to one another in her husband’s 
presence, the conversation soon came to a halt. 

People coming out of the theater passed by on the sidewalk, 
humming or bawling at the tops of their lungs: O bel ange, ma 
Luciel Then L6on, posing as a dilettante, began to talk music. He 
had heard Tamburini, Rubini, Persian!, Grisi; and, beside them, 
Lagardy, despite his great outbursts of sound, was worth nothing. 

“Still,” Charles interrupted, nibbling his rum sherbet in small 
bites, “they claim that he is absolutely marvelous in the last act; 
Tm sorry we left before the end, because it was beginning to inter¬ 
est me.” 


189 



“After all,” the clerk said, “he’ll be giving another performance 
soon.” 

But Charles replied that they were leaving the next day. 

“Unless ” he added, turning to his wife, “you’d like to stay on 

alone, my darling?” 

And, changing tactics in view of this unexpected opportunity 
that was being ofiered to his aspirations, the young man embarked 
upon praise of Lagardy in the last act. It was something superb, 
sublimel Then Charles insisted: 

“You can come home Sunday. Come now, make up your mind to 
do it. If you have the least idea in the world that it helps you, 
you’re wrong to leave.” 

Meanwhile, the tables about them were emptying; a waiter came 
discreetly to hover near them; Charles, understanding, pulled out 
his purse; the clerk caught him by the arm, and even did not forget 
to leave two silver coins extra, which he rang against the marble. 

“I’m really distressed,” Bovary murmured, “at the money you . . 

The other made a negligent gesture, full of cordiality and, tak¬ 
ing his hat: 

“It’s understood, then, tomorrow at six?” 

Charles protested again that he could not be absent any longer; 
but that there was nothing to prevent Emma ... 

“Well. . she stammered with a curious smile, “Tm not sure .. 

“All right, you think it over, we’ll see, sleep on it.” 

Then to L6on, who was walking with them: 

“Now that you’re here in our part of the world, I hope you’ll 
come sometimes and ask us for a dinner?’ 

The clerk agreed that he would not fail to do so, having to go 
to Yonville in any event on a case for his office. And they parted in 
front of the Passage Saint-Herbland, just as eleven-thirty was strik¬ 
ing from the cathedral. 


190 



PART THREE 


SR» PRATAP COLLEGE LIBRARV 

SRINAGAR C Kashmir ) 


date loaned 

Class No.^ -- Book No. - 

ACC. /N/0.__-- 

This book may dav 

charge wiH be levied at the rate ot i 

the book is kept over • time. _ — 





ing his law, had to a certain extent frequented 
the Chaumiere, where he had achieved a very agreeable 
measure of success among the grisettes, who considered him to have 
a “distinguished air.” He was the most proper of students: he wore 
his bair neither too long nor too short, did not go through his whole 
trimester^s allowance on the first day, and kept on good terms with 
his professors. As for riotous living, he had always abstained from 
it, as much from timidity as from delicacy. 

Often, when he sat rea din g in his room, or, in the evening, be¬ 
neath the lindens of the Luxembourg, he let his law book fall to 
the ground, and the memory of Emma returned to him. But little 
by little this emotion had faded, and other emotions accumulated 
above it, although it still persisted beneath them; for L4on had not 
lost all hope, and there was something like an uncertain promise 
that hovered in the future for him, like a golden fruit hanging from 
some fantastic tree. 

Then, seeing her again after three years of absence, his passion 
reawoke. He must, he thought, resolve to try to possess her. Besides, 
his timidity had been rubbed off in contact with reckless com¬ 
panions, and he had returned to the provinces contemptuous of all 
who did not, with gleaming foot, tread the asphalt of the boule¬ 
vards. 

Faced with a Parisian woman dressed in lace, in the drawing¬ 
room of some illustrious surgeon, a personage with decorations and 
carriages, the poor derk would doubtless have trembled like a 
child; but here in Rouen, on the quay, with this country-doctor s 
wife, he felt at ease, convinced in advance that he would dazzle 

193 



her. Self-assurance depends upon the environment in -which it is 
placed: one does not use the same manner of speech on the draw¬ 
ing-room floor as in the servant's quarters, and a wealthy woman 
seems to have about her, to defend her virtue, all her banknotes, 
like a coat of mail, within the lining of her bodice. 

Upon taking leave of Monsieur and Madame Bovary, the evening 
before, Leon had followed them at a distance down the street; then, 
having seen them stop at the Croix Rouge, he had turned on his 
heel and spent the night devising a plan. 

The next day, therefore, at five o’clock, he entered the inn kitchen, 
his throat tight, his cheeks pale, and armed with that coward’s reso¬ 
lution which stops at nothing. 

“Monsieur is not here,” a servant answered. 

This seemed a good omen. He went upstairs. 

She was not disturbed at his arrival; on the contrary, she apolo¬ 
gized for having forgotten to tell him where they were stopping. 

“Oh, I guessed,” L6on said. 

“How?” 

He claimed to have been guided to her by chance, by instinct. 
She began to smile and at once, to retrieve his blunder, L6on told 
her that he had spent the morning asking for her in all the hotels 
in town, one after the other. 

“So you decided to stay?” he added. 

“Yes,” she said, “and I was wrong. One shouldn’t become accus¬ 
tomed to impossible pleasures when one has a thousand obligations 
all about . . 

“Oh, I can imagine.” 

“Well, no, because you’re not a woman.” 

But men also had Aeir frustrations, and the conversation began 
upon a number of philosophical reflections. Emma was eloquent on 
the poverty of earthly affections and the eternal solitude in which 
the heart remains wrapped. 

For the sake of making an impression, or through ingenuous 
imitation of the melancholy that evoked his own, the young man 
declared himself to be constantly very unhappy in his studies. The 
procedure irked him, other vocations attracted him and his mother 
never ceased tormenting him, in every letter. They became more 
and more specific about the sotnces of their unhappiness, each, as 

194 



he talked, growing proportionately rather intense in this progressive 
confidence. But sometimes they hesitated before the complete dis¬ 
closure of their thoughts, while yet seeking to design phrases that 
would reveal them. She did not confess her passion for another 
man; he did not say that he had forgotten her. 

Perhaps he no longer recalled his suppers after the ball, with 
women in carnival costume; and doubtless she did not remember 
those rendezvous of other days, when she had run through the 
standing grasses, in the morning, to her lover’s chateau. The noises 
of the town barely reached them; and the room seemed small, as if 
made for the purpose of holding their solitude the more closely. 
Emma, in a dimity peignoir, rested the heavy knot of her hair 
against the back of an old armchair; the yellow wallpaper made 
a sort of golden background behind her: and her bare head was 
reflected in the mirror, with the white part in the center and the 
tips of her ears showing below its smooth bands. 

“But forgive me,” she said. “This is wrong of me, I’m boring you 
with my eternal complaintsl” 

“No, never. Neverl” 

“If you knew,” she went on, raising to the ceiling her beautiful 
eyes in which tears stood, “all that I have dreamedl” 

“And II Oh, I have suEered a lot. Often I used to go out, I would 
walk, drag myself along the quays, trying to lose myself in the noise 
of the crowd yet unable to shake off the obsession that pursued me. 
On the boulevard, in an art dealer s shop, there’s an Italian etching 
that represents a Muse. She is draped in a tunic and she is look¬ 
ing at the moon, with forget-me-nots in her unbound hair. Some¬ 
thing kept incessantly driving me there; I’ve stayed there for hours 
on end.” 

Then, in a quivering voice: 

“She looked a little like you.” 

Madame Bovary turned her head away, that he might not see 
upon her lips the irresistible smile she felt rising to them. 

“Often,” he went on, “I used to write letters to you and then tear 
them up.” 

She did not reply. He continued: 

“Sometimes I would imagine that chance would bring you here. 
I thought I recognized you on street comers: and I’d run after all 

195 



the cabs in which I saw a shawl or a veil like yours blowing in the 
window . . 

She seemed determined to let him speak without interrupting 
him. Crossing her arms and lowering her face, she stared at the 
rosette on her slipper, and at intervals she made little movements 
of her toes inside their satin. 

Nevertheless, she sighed: 

“The most dreary thing of all is dragging out a useless existence 
as I do, isn’t it? If our sorrows could be of use to someone, we 
could console ourselves in the thought of sacrifice.” 

He began to praise virtue, duty and silent abnegation, having 
himself an incredible need of devotion which he was unable to 
satiate. 

“I should like very much to be a nun in a hospital,” she said. 

“Unfortunately, men haven’t any of these holy callings,” he an¬ 
swered, “and I don’t see any other vocation anywhere . . . except, 
perhaps, a doctor’s . . .” 

With a slight shrug of the shoulders, Emma interrupted him to 
comment sorrowfully upon the illness of which she had failed to 
die; what a pity, she would not be suffering nowl L4on promptly 
envied the “quiet of the grave,” and one evening he had even gone 
so far as to write his will, requesting to be buried in that handsome 
velvet-banded coverlet which he had received from her; for it was 
thus that they would have liked to be, each of them constructing 
an ideal to which they were now adjusting their past lives. In addi¬ 
tion, the spoken word is a roller that always spreads emotions out. 

But, at this invention concerning the coverlet: 

“Why so?” she asked. 

“Why?” He hesitated. “Because I loved you very much.” 

And, congratulating himself upon having cleared the obstacle, 
Leon, from the corner of his eye, studied her expression. 

It was like the sky when a gust of wind drives away the clouds. 
The cumulus of sorrowful thoughts which had been darkening them 
seemed to be withdrawn from her blue eyes; her whole face glowed. 

He waited. At length she said: 

“I always suspected it . . 

Then they recalled to one another the small events of that far¬ 
away existence, the pleasure and melancholies of which they had 

196 



just, through a single word, revived. He remembered the clematis 
arbor, the gowns she had worn, the furniture in her room, her 
whole house. 

"And our poor cactus plants, what became of them?*' 

“The cold killed them last winter.” 

“Oh, how IVe thought of them, you know? Often I used to see 
them again, the way they used to be, with the sun falling on the 
blinds on summer mornings . . . and I would glimpse your two bare 
arms moving among the flowers.” 

“Poor dearl” she said, holding out her hand to him. 

Leon at once pressed his hps to it. Then, when he had taken a 
deep breath: 

“In those days you were to me a sort of indescribable, incompre¬ 
hensible force that enslaved my life. One time, for instance, I came 
to your house; but I suppose you donT remember?” 

“Yes, I do,” she said. “Go on.” 

“You were downstairs, in the vestibule, ready to go out, standing 
on the bottom step; you had on a hat with little blue flowers, too; 
and without any invitation from you, in spite of myself, I went with 
you. Yet every minute I was more and more conscious of my blun¬ 
der, and stfll I went on walking near you, not daring actually to 
follow you, and not wanting to leave you. When you would go into 
a store I would wait in the street and watch you through the win¬ 
dow, taking off your gloves and counting out the money on the 
counter. Afterwards you rang at Madame Tuvache^s house, the door 
opened for you and I was left like an idiot in front of the big heavy 
door which had fallen closed behind you.” 

Madame Bovary, listening to him, was startled at being so old; 
all these things which were reemerging seemed to her to enlarge 
her existence; it made what seemed like vast emotional stretches to 
which she was carried back; and she kept saying from time to time 
in a low voice and with half-closed eyelids: 

“Yes, that’s true . . . that’s true . . . that’s true . . 

They heard eight o’clock strike from the various clocks of the 
Beauvoisine quarter, which is full of boarding houses, churches and 
big abandoned hotels. They were no longer talking; but they felt, 
as they looked at one another, a ringing in their heads, as if some 
audible force were radiated mutually by their fixed eyes. They had 

197 



linked hands; and the past, the future, reminiscences and dreams, 
all were blended in the charm of this enchantment. Night was thick¬ 
ening over the walls on which still shone, half lost in the shadows, 
the raw colors of four lithographs representing four scenes from 
La Tour de Nesle, with a legend below in French and in Spanish. 
Through the window one saw a comer of black sky between pointed 
roofs. 

She rose to light two candles on the chest of drawers, then came 
to sit down again. 

“Well. . . ?” L^on said. 

“Well she answered. 

And he was wondering how to resume the intermpted conversa¬ 
tion when she said: 

“Why is it that no one, up to now, has ever expressed such 
feelings to me?'' 

The clerk protested that ideal natures were diffi cult to \mder- 
stand. He had loved her from the very first glance; and he was in 
despair when he thought of the happiness they would have had if, 
by the mercy of fate, they had met sooner and joined themselves 
together in an indissoluble union. 

“I have thought of that sometimes,^ she said. 

“What a dreaml” L6on murmured. 

And, delicately fingering the blue fringe of her long white sash, 
he added: 

“What is there to prevent our beginning all over . . 

“No. No, my dear,” she answered. “I am too old .. . you are too 
young ... forget mel Other women will love you . . . you will love 
them.” 

“Not as I do youl” he cried. 

“Child that you arel Come now, be good. I want you tol” 

She outlined the impossibilities of their love for him, and how 
he must confine himself, as before, to the limits of a merely 
brotherly affection. 

Was it seriously that she spoke thus? Doubtless Emma herself 
did not know, absorbed in the charms of seduction and the neces¬ 
sity of defending herself against it; and, gazing at the young man 
with a gentle glance, she repulsed the timid caresses his shaking 
hand attempted. 


198 



*Ah, forgive me!” he said, drawing back. 

And Emma was overtaken by a vague alarm in the face of this 
timidity, more dangerous to her than Rodolphe*s boldness when 
he had advanced upon her, his arms outstretched. Never had any 
man looked so handsome to her. An exquisite candor was expressed 
in his demeanor. He lowered his long fine eyelashes which curled 
back. His soft-skinned cheek was flushed—she thought—with desire 
of her, and Emma felt an insuperable impulse to lay her hps against 
it. Then, leaning toward the clock, as if to look at the time: 

"Goodness, how late it is!” she said. “How weVe been chatteringl” 

He understood the suggestion and looked for his hat. 

“I even forgot the play because of it Poor Bovary, leaving me 
behind on purpose for that! Monsiem Lormaux, of the Rue Grand- 
Pont, was to have taken me with his wife.” 

And the opportunity was lost, for she was to leave the next day. 

“Really?” L6on said. 

“Yes.” 

“But IVe got to see you again,” he said. “I had something to tell 
you . . 

“What?” 

“Something . . . important, serious. Oh, no, after all, youTe not 
going, it s impossible! If you knew . . . Listen to me . . . Didn’t you 
understand me? Didn’t you guess . . . ?” 

“Why, you talk very well,” Emma said. 

“Ah, jokesi No more, enoughl Have pity, let me see you again • .. 
once, just one time.” 

“WeU . . ” 

She paused; then, as if upon second thought: “Oh, not here!” 

“Wherever you like.” 

“Will you . . She seemed to reflect, then, in a short tone: “To¬ 
morrow, at eleven o'clock, in the cathedral.” 

“I’ll be there!” he cried, seizing her hands, which she puRed 
away. 

And, as they were both standing, he behind her, and Emma low¬ 
ering her head, he bent forward and pressed his lips long to the 
nape of her neck. 

“Why, you must be mad! Ah, you’re mad!” she said with small 
deep laughter, while the kisses were multiplied. 

199 



Then, thrusting his head forward across her shoulder, he seemed 
to seek her eyes’ consent. They fell upon him, full of a frigid dignity. 

Leon fell back three steps, to leave. He hesitated on the threshold. 
Presently he whispered in a quavering voice: 

“Tomorrow.” 

She answered with a nod, and vanished like a bird into the ad¬ 
joining room. 

That evening Emma wrote an interminable letter to the clerk, in 
which she excused herself from the rendezvous; now all was over, 
and for the sake of their happiness they should never meet again. 
But when the letter was sealed, since she did not know Lion’s ad¬ 
dress, she found herself very much embarrassed. 

“I shall give it to him myself,” she thought. “He will come.” 

The next morning L^on, humming on the balcony, his window 
open, polished his dress shoes himself, and with several coats of 
wax. He put on white breeches, thin stockings, a green coat, sprin¬ 
kled his handkerchief with every scent he owned; then, having had 
his hair curled, uncurled it in order to give it more natural elegance. 

“Its still too early!” he thought, glancing at the barbers cuckoo 
clock, which said nine o’clock. 

He read an old fashion paper, went out, smoked a cigar, walked 
back three blocks, thought that it was time and slowly made his 
way toward the Notre-Dame cathedral courL 

It was a fine summer morning. Pieces of silver-plate gleamed in 
goldsmiths’ shops, and the light that fell obliquely upon the cathe¬ 
dral cast bright reflections on the cracks of the gray stones; a flock 
of birds eddied about in the blue sky, around the trefoiled beU 
turrets; the square, clamorous with voices, smelled of the flowers 
that edged its pavement, roses, jasmin, violets, narcissus and tube¬ 
roses, unevenly alternated with patches of moist herbs, of catnip 
and of chickweed for the birds; the fountain, in the center, was 
gurgling, and beneath large umbrellas, among cantaloupes heaped 
up in pyramids, bare-headed vendors were twisting bunches of vio¬ 
lets up in paper. 

The young man bought one of them. It was the first time he had 
bought flowers for a woman, and his chest, as he sniffed at them, 
swelled with pride, as if this homage which he directed toward 
another were reflected back upon himself. 


200 



Still, he was afraid of being overseen; resolutely he entered the 
church. 

At that moment the beadle was standing on the threshold, in the 
center of the left portal, beneath the Marianne Dansant, his feather 
plume on his head, his rapier at his thigh, his stick in his fist, more 
majestic than a cardinal and glittering like a sacred pyx. 

He strode toward L6on and, with that smile of coaxing benignity 
which churchmen assume when they question children: 

"Monsieur, I presume, is not from hereabouts? Monsieur wishes 
to see the interesting features of the church?"* 

“No,” the other said. 

And first he took a tiu-n about the interior of the church. Then 
he went to look out over the square. Emma was not here. He went 
back up to the choir. Never had life seemed so good to him. Soon, 
now, she was going to come, charming, agitated, glancing behind 
her for eyes that might be following—and with her flounced dress, 
her gold lorgnon, her thin slippers, with all sorts of exquisite details 
which he had not experienced, and in the ineffable allurement of 
virtue upon the point of yielding. Like a boudoir the church, in its 
vastness, was prepared for her; the vaults bent down to receive in 
the shadows the confession of her love: the stained windows 
gleamed to light her face, and the censers were burning that she 
might appear like an angel, in perfumed smoke. 

Still she did not come. He sat down in a seat and his eyes fell 
upon a blue window representing boatmen carrying baskets. He 
looked at it for a long time, attentively, and he counted the scales 
on the fish and the buttonholes in the doublets while his thoughts 
wandered in search of Emma. 

The beadle, at one side, was inwardly becoming incensed with 
this individual who took the liberty of a dmiri ng the cathedral alone. 
He seemed to him to be behaving in a monstrous fashion, to be 
stealing from him in a way, and almost to be committing a sacrilege. 

But a whisper of silk over the flagstones, a hat brim, a black shawl 
... It was shel L4on sprang up and hurried to meet her, 

Emma was pale. She was walking rapidly. 

“Read this!” she said, handing him a paper. “Oh, no!” 

And she snatched her hand from him abruptly, to go into the chapel 
of the Virgin where, kneeling beside a chair, she began to pray. 

201 



The young man was irritated by this bigoted caprice; then, never¬ 
theless, he found a certain charm in seeing her thus, in the midst of 
a rendezvous, lost in prayer like an Andalusian marquise; after this 

he speedily became bored, for she went on and on. 

Emma was praying, or rather forcing herself to pray, in the hope 
that some sudden resolution would come down to her from heaven; 
and, in order to summon divine aid, she was filling her eyes with the 
splendors of the tabernacle, she breathed in the fragrance of full¬ 
blown white rocket-flowers and bent her ear to the silence of the 
church, which only accentuated the tumult of her heart. 

She stood up again, and they were about to leave when the beadle 

walked quickly up to them, saying: 

“Madame, I presume, is not from hereabouts? Madame would like 
to see the interesting features of the church?^ 

“Nor the clerk cried. 

“Why not?** she asked. 

For she was clinging with her wavering virtue to the Virgin, the 

sculptures, the tombs, every opportunity that offered. 

Therefore, that they mi^t “take it in order,*" the beadle led them 
to the entrance, off the square, where, pointing with his stick to a 
great circle of black flagstones without inscriptions or carvings: 

“This,” he said majestically, “is the circumference of the beauti¬ 
ful Amboise bell. It weighed forty thousand pounds. It was wi&amp;out 
equal in all Europe. The workman who cast it died of joy . . 

“Let us leave,” L6on said. 

The fellow started off again; then, returning to the chapel of the 
Virgin, he flung out his arms in a synthetic gesture of demon^a- 
tion and, more prideful than a country landowner showing you his 

fruit trees: 

“—this simple stone covers Pierre de Br6z6, lord of La Varenne 
and Brissac, Grand Marshal of Poitou and Governor of Normandy, 
died in the Battle of Montlh6ry, July 16th, 1465.” 

L6on. biting his lips, stamped his feet. 

“And, over to the right, this gentleman all covered with armor, 
on a prancing horse, is his grandson Louis de Br6z6, lord of Breval 
and Montchauvet, Count de Maulevrier, Baron de Mauny, King's 
Chamberlain, Knight of the Order, and also Governor of Normandy, 
died July 23, 1531. a Sunday as the inscription notes; and below. 

202 



that man preparing to descend into the grave represents exactly the 
same man. It is not possible to see a more perfect portrayal of the here¬ 
after, is it?” 

Madame Bovary took out her lorgnon. Leon, immobile, watched 
her, no longer even making an efFort to say a single word, to make 
a single gesture, so discouraged did he feel before this dual atti¬ 
tude of idle chatter and indifference. 

The eternal guide continued: 

“Beside him, this kneehng woman who is weeping is his wife, 
Diane de Poitiers, Countess of Br6z6, Duchess of Valentinois, bom 
in 1499, died in 1566; and at the left, that one with the baby in her 
arms is the Holy Virgin. Now, turn this way: here are the Amboise 
tombs. They were both cardinals and archbishops of Rouen. This 
one was one of King Louis XILs ministers. He did a great deal for 
the cathedral. In his will it was found that he had left thirty thou¬ 
sand 6cus to the poor.” 

And without pausing, talking all the while, he herded them into 
a chapel crowded with balustrades, moved several of them aside 
and uncovered a sort of block that might well have been a poorly 
executed statue. 

“Once it decorated Richard the Lionhearted’s tomb,” he said with 
a long groan. “It was the Calvinists, Monsieur, who reduced it to 
this condition. Out of wickedness, they buried it in the earth, under 
the Bishop’s Episcopal seat. Look, here is the door by which he 
goes to his house. Monseigneur does. Let us move on and see the 
Gargouille windows.” 

But L4on abmptly drew a coin from his pocket and grasped 
Emma by the arm. The beadle remained utterly diunfounded, not 
imderstanding this impetuous munificence when there were still so 
many things left for the stranger to see. So, calling him back: 

“Hey, Monsieur! The spire, the spire . . 

“No, thank you,” L4on said. 

“Monsieur is making a mistake. It is four hundred and forty feet 
high, nine less than the Great Pyramid of Egypt. It is all cast iron, 
it ” 

L6on fled; for it seemed to him that his love, which for the past 
two hours had been immobilized in the church like the stones, was 
now about to be dissipated like smoke through that kind of truncated 

203 



funnel with its oblong framework, a sort of openwork chimney 
which perches so grotesquely upon the cathedral, like the extrava¬ 
gant endeavor of some whimsical foimdryman. 

‘"Where are we going?” she asked. 

Without answering, he continued to stride along at a rapid gait, 
and Madame Bovary was already dipping her finger in the holy 
water when they heard behind them a great breathless panting 
regularly pimctuated by the thumping of a cane. L6on turned. 

“Monsieurr 

"Whatr 

And he recognized the beadle, carrying under his arm and bal¬ 
anced against his belly about a score of heavy bound volumes. 
They were works which ""dealt with the cathedral. 

"Imbecile!” Leon growled, flinging out of the church. 

A street urchin was lounging in the cathedral court 


‘"Go fetch me a cab.” 

The boy set off like a bullet along the Rue des Quatre-Vents; 
then they were left alone for a few minutes, face to face and some¬ 
what embarrassed. 

"‘Oh, L6onI . . . Really ... I don t know ... if I should . . 

She gave a forced smile. Then, with a serious air: 

"‘Ifs very improper, you know.” 

“In what way?’" the clerk answered. ""Its done in Paris!” 

And this observation, like an irresistible argument, convinced her. 

Meanwhile, the cab had not arrived. L4on was afraid that she 
might go back into the church. At last the cab appeared. 

“At least go out by the North door!” the beadle, who had re¬ 
mained on the threshold, called to them, “to see the Resurrection, 
the Last Judgment, Paradise, King David and the Reprobates in the 


flames of hell.” 

“Where is Monsieur going?” the cab driver asked. 

"Wherever you like,” L^on said, urging Emma into the carriage. 
And the heavy vehicle started off. 

It went down the Rue Grand-Pont, crossed the Place des Arts, 
the Quai NapoUon, the Pont Neuf and stopped short before the 

statute of Pierre Corneille. 

“Go on!” said a voice which issued from the interior. 

The carriage set off again and, from the Carr^four La Fayette, 


204 



letting itself be carried along by the downward slope, it entered 
the railway station at the full gallop. 

“No, no, straight ahead!” cried the same voice. 

The cab emerged from the gates and presently, reaching the 
drive, trotted leisurely between the great elms. The driver mopped 
his brow, put his leather cap between his knees and drove the car¬ 
riage out to the far side of the footpath, to the water’s edge, beside 
the grass. 

It followed along the river, on the towpath paved with dry 
gravel, and, for some time, toward Oyssel, beyond the islands. 

But suddenly it shot forward through Quatremares, Sotteville, 
the Grande-Chaussee, the Rue d’Elbeuf, and came to its third stop 
before the Jardin des Plantes. 

“Go on!” the voice shouted more furiously. 

And at once, resuming its course, it passed through Saint-Sever, 
by the Quai des Curandiers, by the Quai aux Meules, once more 
across the bridge, through the Place Champ-de-Mars and behind 
the hospital gardens where old men in black coats stroll in the sun¬ 
shine along a terrace all green with ivy. It went back up the Boule¬ 
vard Bouvreuil, ran along the Boulevard Cauchoise, then wandered 
over the whole of Mont-Riboudet as far as Deville. 

It returned; and then, without object or direction, it meandered 
at random. It was seen at Saint-Pol, at Lescure, at Mont Gargan, 
at the Rouge-Mare and the Place du Gaillardbois; Rue Maladrerie, 
Rue Dinanderie, in front of Saint-Romain, Saint-Vivien, Saint- 
Maclou, Saint-Nicaise—in front of the Customs House—at the Basse- 
Vielle-Tour, the Trois Pipes and the Cimitiere Monumentale. From 
time to time the driver, from his perch, fltmg despairing glances at 
the taverns. He did not imderstand what frenzy of locomotion drove 
these individuals to insist upon not stopping. He tried several times, 
and at once heard behind him exclamations of rage. So he whipped 
up his two lathered nags with renewed vigor but without a care 
for the bumps, Imching this way and that, not caring, demoralized 
and almost weeping with thirst, fatigue and misery. 

And on the quays, in the midst of the carts and barrels, and in 
the streets, at boundary comers, the townspeople stared open- 
mouthed before this sight so extraordinary in the provinces, a car¬ 
riage with drawn blinds which kept continually appearing in this 

205 



fashion, more tightly closed than a tomb and tossing about like a 
rowboat. 

Once, in the middle of the day, far out in the country, just when 
the sun beat most strongly against the ancient silver-plated lanterns, 
a bare hand slipped between the small yellow cloth curtains and 
flung out scraps of tom paper which were scattered in the wind 
and settled down farther on, like white butterflies, in a field of red 
clover all in blossom. 

Then, near six o’clock, the carriage stopped in a small street of 
the Beauvoisine quarter, and a woman stepped out of it who walked 
with her veil lowered, without turning her head. 


4 


206 





REIVING at the inn, Madame 
Bovary was astonished not to see the dili¬ 
gence. Hivert, who had waited fifty-three minutes for 
her, had at length gone along. 

Nothing, on the other hand, obliged her to leave; but she had 
given her word that she would return this very evening. Besides, 
Charles was expecting her; and already she felt in her heart that 
languid docihty which is, for many women, like the punishment 
and the ransom price of adultery combined. 

Quickly she packed her bag, paid the bill, took one of the car¬ 
riages in the courtyard and, hurrying the groom, urging him on, 
asking every minute for the time and the number of kilometers put 
behind them, succeeded in catching the Hirondelle on the outskirts 
of Quincampoix. 

The moment she was seated in her comer she closed her eyes 
and opened them again at the bottom of the slope, where she caught 
sight of F61icit6, who was standing watch in front of the marshal's 
house. Hivert reined in his horses, and the cook, pulling herself up 
to the seat, said mysteriously: 

*^adame, you must go straight to Monsieur Homais' house. It's 
for something urgent.” 

The village was silent as usual. At the street comers there were 
little pink moimds that steamed in the air, for it was preserving 
time, and everybody, in Yonville, put up her preserves on the same 
day. But in front of the pharmacist’s shop a far larger heap was 
to be admired, one which surpassed the others with the superiority 
which an apothecary’s laboratory ought to have over common 
stoves, a general necessity over individual fancies. 

She went in. The big armchair was overturned, and even the 
Fanal de Rouen was lying on the floor, spread out between the two 


207 







pestles. She pushed open the door to the passage; and, in the middle 
of the kitchen, among brown jars full of seeded currants, of grated 
sugar, sugar in lumps, scales on the table, pots on the fire, she saw 
all the Homais*s, large and small, wearing aprons that came up to 
their chins and holding forks in their hands. Justin, standing, was 
hanging his head and the pharmacist was shouting: 

‘'Who told you to go and look in the caphamaum?"’ 

“What is it? What is the matterr 

“What is the matter?’' the apothecary said. “We are making pre¬ 
serves: they are cooking; but they were about to boil over because 
of cooking up too fast, and I asked for another pot. So he, out of 
slackness, out of laziness, went and took from the key where it hung 
in my laboratory, the key of the caphamauml” 

This was the pharmacist’s name for a closet up under the roof, 
full of utensils and merchandise for his profession. Often he spent 
long hours alone there, labeling, decanting, retying; and he con¬ 
sidered it in the nature of a true sanctuary, whence presently 
emerged, compounded by his own hands, all sorts of pills, tablets, 
tisanes, lotions and potions which went to spread his renown about 
the surrounding districts. No one in the world set foot there; and 
he regarded it so highly that he swept it out himself. Indeed, if 
the pharmacy, open to all comers, was the place where he displayed 
his pride, the caphamaiim was the refuge in which, egotistically 
concentrating, Homais deUghted in the exercise of his predilections; 
so Justin’s stupidity seemed to him monstrous in its irreverence; 

and, redder than the currants, he repeated: 

“Yes, of the caphamauml The key that locks up the acids and 
the caustic alkalis. To have gone and taken a pot from the stock, 
a covered pot, and one which I perhaps shall never usel Everything 
has its importance in the delicate operations of our art. What the 
devill You have to make distinctions and not use for practically 
domestic purposes what is designed for pharmaceutical. Ifs as if 
one carved a chicken with a scalpel, as if a magistrate ... 

“Now, calm yourselfl” Madame Homais said. 

And Athalie, pulling at his coat: 

‘Tapa, Papal” , . i 

“No, let me alone,” the pharmacist cried. “Do you know the nsk 

208 



you were r unnin g, you, Justin? Didn t you see anything in the corner, 
at the left, on the third shelf?*' 

“I—don't know,” the boy stammered. 

“Oh, so you don't know. Well, I knowl You saw a bottle, blue 
glass, sealed with yellow wax, that contained a white powder, and 
on which I had even written: Dangerous. And do you know what was 
in it? Arsenic! And you go and touch that, take a pot that’s right 
beside it!” 

“Beside it!” Madame Homais shrieked, clasping her hands. “Beside 
arsenic? You might have poisoned us all!” 

And the children began to scream as if already they felt atrocious 
pains in their entrails. 

But Emma, turning toward Madame Homais: 

“You sent for me ...” 

“Oh, dear God!” the good woman interrupted with a saddened 
expression. “How can I tell you? . . . It's bad news.” 

She did not finis h. The apothecary was thundering: 

“Empty it, clean it out, take it back, hurry up!” And, shaking 
Justin by the collar of his blouse, he caused a book to fall from 
his pocket. 

The boy bent down; Homais was quicker and, having picked 
up the volume, he stared at it, his eyes squinting, his jaw dropped. 

“Marital . . . Love,** he said, separating the two words slowly. 
“Ah, very good, very good! Very nice! And pictures! . . . Oh, this 
is too much!” 

Madame Homais stepped forward. 

“No, don't touch it!” 

The children wanted to see the pictures. 

“Leave the room!” he said imperiously. And they left. 

First he walked up and down in great strides, keeping the book 
open in his fingers, rolling his eyes, strangling, tumid, apoplectic. 
Then he went straight to his pupil and, planting himself in front 
of him, with his arms folded: 

“So you have all the vices, have you, yoimg scoundrel? Take care, 
you're on a down-grade! It didn't occur to you that this, this vile 
book, might have fallen into my children's hands, cast a spark 
into their brains, sullied Athalie's purity, corrupted Napoleon! He 

209 



is already formed like a man. Are you at least quite sure they 
haven’t read it? Can you guarantee to me ...” 

"But after all. Monsieur,” Emma said, "you had something to 

tell me?” 

“That’s right, Madame . . . Your father-in-law is dead.” 

Indeed, Monsieur Bovary senior had died two days before, 
suddenly, of an attack of apoplexy, upon rising from the table; and 
out of an excess of solicitude for Emma’s sensibility, Charles had 
requested Monsieiu: Homais to break this horrible news to her 
carefioUy. 

He had meditated his speech, he had rounded it, polished it, 
made it rhythmic; it was a masterpiece of prudence and transition, 
of fine style and delicacy; but anger had triumphed over rhetoric. 

Emma, giving up hope of learning any details, then left the 
pharmacy; for Monsieur Homais had resumed the course of his 
vituperations. He was becoming calmer, however, and now was 
grumbling in a paternal tone while fanning himself with his Greek 

cap. 

“It’s not that I disapprove entirely of the work. The author was a 
doctor. There are certain scientific aspects to it that it’s not bad 
for a man to be familiar with and, I might venture to say, that a 
man must know. But later on, later on! At least wait until you’re 
a man yourself and until your constitution is fully developed.” 

At Emma’s knock, Charles, who was waiting for her, came 
forward with his arms outstretched and said to her with tears in 

his voice: 

"Oh, my darling ...” 

And he bent down gently to kiss her. But at the touch of his lips 
the memory of the other seized her, and she passed her hand 
over her face, shuddering. 

At the same time she replied: "Yes, I know... I know ...” 

He showed her the letter in which his mother told of the occur¬ 
rence, without the slightest sentimental hypocrisy. Her one regret 
was that her husband had not received the succor of religion, 
having died in Doudeville, in the street, on the threshold of a caf6, 
after a patriotic dinn er with some retired ofiBcers. 

Emma handed back the letter; then, at dinner, prompted by 
tact, she aEected some repugnance. But, as he urged her, she began 

210 



resolutely to eat, while Charles, opposite her, remained frozen in 
crushed attitude. 

From time to time, raising his head, he sent her a long look full 
of distress. Once he sighed: 

**1 should have liked to see him once more.” 

She was silent. Presently, realizing that she must say something: 

“How old was your father?” 

“Fifty-eight!” 

“Ahl” 

And that was all. 

A quarter of an hour later, he added: 

“What about my poor mother? What*s to become of her, now?” 

She made a gesture of ignorance. 

Seeing her so taciturn, Charles supposed her to be grief-stricken, 
and he forced him self not to speak further, in order not to aggravate 
that grief which moved him. However, shaking off his own: 

“Did you have a good time yesterday?"* he asked. 

“Yes.” 

When the cloth had been removed, Bovary did not rise. Nor did 
Emma; and the longer she contemplated it, the more the monotony 
of this spectacle gradually banished all pity from her heart. To her 
he seemed paltry, weak, a cipher, in fact, a sorry figure of a man 
in every way. How to get rid of him? What an interminable eve¬ 
ning! Something stupefying as opium smoke was numbing her. 

They heard from the vestibule the sharp sound of wood on the 
floorboards. It was Hippolyte bringing Madame*s luggage. 

In order to set it down he painfully described a quarter circle 
with his wooden leg. 

“He doesn't even think about'it any longer!” she said to herself, 
watching the poor devil whose thick red hair was drenched with 
sweat. 

Bovary was fumbling in his purse for a copper; and, without 
seeming to recognize all the humiliation there was for him in the 
mere presence of that man who stood there like the personified 
reproach of his incurable disability: 

“Well, you have a pretty bouquet!” he said, noticing L6on*s 
violets on the mantelpiece. 


211 



“Yes,” she said indifferently. “Its a bunch of flowers I bought 

awhile ago . . . from a beggar.” 

Charles picked up the violets and, cooling his tear-reddened eyes 
upon them, delicately sniffed at them. She quickly took them from 
his hand and went to put them in a glass of water. 

The next day, Madame Bovary, the mother, arrived. She and 
her son wept a great deal. Emma, upon pretext of orders to give, 
withdrew. 

The following day they had to consult together about matters 
concerning the bereavement. They went, with their work-boxes, 
to sit at the water s edge, in the arbor. 

Charles thought about his father, and was astonished at feeling 
so much affection for that man whom he had believed he liked only 
moderately, up to the present. The elder Madame Bovary thought 
of her husband. The worst days out of the past seemed enviable 
to her now. Everything was submerged in the instinctive regret of 
so long a habit; and from time to time, as she phed her needle, 
a large tear would creep down the length of her nose and hang 
there for a moment. 

Emma thought that barely forty-eight hours before, they had 
been together, remote from the world, plimged in intoxication, and 
without eyes enough for gazing at one another. She tried to re¬ 
capture the most minute details of that vanished day. But the 
presence of her mother-in-law and husband kept frustrating her. 
She would have liked to hear nothing, see nothing, in order not 
to interfere with the recollection of love which kept getting lost, no 
matter what she did, in these external sensations. 

Suddenly they saw Monsieur Lheureux, the shopkeeper, coming 

through the gate. 

He had come to offer his services “in connection with the tragic 
occiurence.” Emma answered that she felt she could do without 
them. The merchant did not consider himself rebuffed. 

“My profound apologies,” he said. “I should like a word in 

private.” 

Then, in a low voice: 

‘Tfs about that matter . . . you know?” 

Charles became crimson to the ears. 

“Ah, yes . . . certainly.” And, in his confusion, turning to his 
wife: “CouldnT you be Ae one, my dear . . . ?” 

212 



She seemed to understand, for she rose, and Charles said to his 
mother, “It's nothing, some household detail most likely.” 

He was extremely unw illin g that she should know the story of 
the note, dreading her comments. 

As soon as they were alone. Monsieur Lheureux began, in rather 
bald terms, to congratulate Emma upon the inheritance, then to 
speak of indifferent matters, of espaliered fruit trees, the harvest 
and his own health, which was always “so-so, not good not bad.” 
As a matter of fact, he worked like five hundred devils, although 
no matter what people said, he didn't make enough to buy butter 
for his bread. 

Emma let him talk. She had been so monstrously bored for the 
past two daysl 

“And here you are, quite recovered?” he continued. “My word, 
I saw your poor husband in a fine state! He’s a great fellow, even 
though we did have some difficulties between us.” 

She asked what difficulties, for Charles had concealed the dispute 
over the merchandise from her. 

“Why, you know very well!” Lheureux said. “It was over those 
things you wanted, the traveling cases.” 

He had pulled his hat low over his eyes and, with his hands 
behind his back, smiling and lisping, was staring her in the face 
in an imbearable manner. Did he suspect anything? She was left 
bevidldered, assailed by all sorts of apprehensions. In the end, how¬ 
ever, he resumed: 

“We patched things up, and I was coming to suggest another 
arrangement to him.” 

It was to renew the note signed by Bovary; Monsieur, after all, 
might act as he saw fit; he should not torment himself, particularly 
now that he was about to have a host of anxieties. 

“And it would even be better for him to pass the obligation along 
to somebody else, to you for instance; that could easily be done, 
with a power of attorney, and then we would have little dealings 
between the two of us ... ” 

She did not understand. He fell silent. Then, proceeding to 
business, Lheureux declared that Madame could not do without 
buying one thing from him. He was going to send her a length of 
black barege, twelve yards, to make a dress. 

“What you have on is good enough for the house. You need 

213 



another for calling. I saw that, myself, at first glance, when I came. 

I have an American's eye.” 

He did not send the material; he brought it. Then he returned 
for the measurements; he came back upon other pretexts, en¬ 
deavoring each time to make himself obliging, helpful— erdeoffing 
himself,” as Homais would have said-and always insinuating into 
Emma’s ears a few bits of advice about powers of attorney. He did 
not mention the note. She did not think of it; early in her con¬ 
valescence Charles had indeed told her something about it; but so 
many anxieties had been troubling her mind that she no longer 
remembered it. Besides, she was careful not to open any discussion 
of money matters; the elder Madame Bovary was surprised by 
this, and attributed the change of nature to the religious leanings 

she had acquired while she was ill. 

But as soon as the other woman had left, Emma lost no time in 
astonishing Bovary by her practical common sense. He was to make 
inquiries, verify the mortgages, find out whether an auction or a 

liquidation sale was to take place. 

She quoted technical terms at random, uttered the potent words: 
order, the future, foresight, and constantly exaggerated the dif¬ 
ficulties of inheritance: to such an extent that one day she showed 
him a blanket authorization to "direct and administer his affairs, 
make all loans, sign and endorse all notes, pay all sums, etc.” She 
had profited by Monsieur Lheureux’ lessons. 

Charles, innocently, asked where this paper came from. 

"From Monsieur Guillaumin.” And, with the greatest composure 
in the world, she added: "I haven’t too much confidence in him. 
Lawyers have such a bad reputation. Perhaps we ought to consult 
, . , We don’t know anybody except . . . Oh, nobody! 

“Outside of L6on,” said Charles, who was meditating. 

But it was difficult to come to an understanding by means of 
correspondence. She offered, therefore, to make the trip. He thanked 
her, but refused. She insisted. A fencing-match of courtesies ensued. 
At length she cried in a tone of pretended mutiny: 

"No, I insist, I am going!” 

"How good you are!” he said, kissing her brow. 

The next day she set out in the HirondeUe to go to Rouen and 
consult Monsieur L6on; and she stayed there three days. 

214 




^--/hey were three full, exquisite, 
shining days, a true honeymoon. They stayed 
at the Hotel de Boulogne, overlooking the port. And 
there they lived, blinds drawn, doors closed, with flowers on 
the floor and iced sweet drinks brought to them from morning 
on. 

At evening they engaged a covered boat and went to dine on 
an island. 

It was the hour when one hears, along the docks, the calkers* 
mallets against the hulls of ships. Tar-smoke drifted up among the 
trees, and on the surface of the river one saw large oily circles 
rising and falling unevenly imder the piurple hght of the sun, like 
floating plaques of Florentine bronze. 

They would move downstream in the midst of moored craft 
whose long oblique cables brushed lightly against the top of the 
boat 

The sounds of the city gradually died away, the rattle of carts, 
the tumult of voices, the barking of dogs on the bridges of the 
ships. She would imtie her hat, and they would land on their 
island. 

They sat in the low-ceilinged room of a tavern which had black 
nets hung at its door. They ate fried smelts, cream and cherries. 
They lay down in the grass; they embraced, alone among the 
poplars; and they wished that they might live forever, like two 
Robinsons, in this small spot which seemed to them, in their bliss, 
the most magnificent on earth. It was not the first time they had 
seen trees, blue skies, grass, that they had heard water flowing and 
the breeze whispering in leaves; but doubtless they had never 
admired these things, as if nature had not existed before, or had 
only begun to be beautiful since the gratifying of their desires. 

215 



At nightfall they would go back. The boat would skirt the islands. 
They would recline in the bottom, both hidden in shadow, saying 
nothing. The square oars creaked in their iron locks; and the sound 
stood out against the silence like the ticking of a metronome, while 
the hawser which dragged astern never ceased its small gentle 
slapping at the water. 

Once the moon came out; then they did not fail to turn phrases, 
finding that fixed star melancholy and full of poetry; she even began 
to sing: 

“One night, dost thou remember? we were sailing ...” 

Her voice, harmonious and thin, was lost over the waves; and 
the wind picked up quavers which L^on heard pass like a flutter 
of wings about him. 

She was sitting opposite him, leaning against the bulkhead 
where the moonlight fell through one of the open shutters. Her 
black dress, its folds fanning out, made her taller, thinner. She 
had her head thrown back, her hands clasped, her eyes raised to 
the sky. Now and then the shadow of the willows hid her alto¬ 
gether, then she would suddenly appear again, like a vision in the 

moonlight. 

In spite of everything, they had to separatel The farewells were 
sorrowful. He was to send 1^ letters in care of M^re RoUet; and 
she gave such precise directions regarding the double envelope 
that he vastly admired her amorous guile. 

“Then you assure me that everything is in order?” she said in a 

last kiss. 

“Yes, certainlyl” But why in the world, he wondered afterwards, 
returning home alone through the streets, did she set such store by 
this power of attorney? 


210 



4 - 


t&gt;^EFORE long Leon was assum¬ 
ing an attitude of superiority toward his 
friends, forgoing their company and completely neglect¬ 
ing his briefs. 

He waited for his letters; he read them over and over. He wrote 
to her. He called up her image with all the force of his desire and 
his memories. Rather than diminishin g through absence, this desire 
to see her again increased, to such an extent that one Saturday 
morning he slipped away from his office. 

When, from the top of the rise, he caught sight of the church 
spire in the valley with its steel pennant turning in the wind, he 
felt that delight mingled with triumphant vanity and egotistical 
tenderness which millionaires must feel when they return to visit 
their native villages. 

He prowled about her house. A light was burning in the kitchen. 
He waited for her shadow behind the curtains. Nothing appeared. 

Madame Lefran 9 ois, seeing him, made loud outcries, and thought 
him ‘‘taller and thinner,” whereas Art^mise, on the contrary, foxmd 
him ‘Trigger and browner.” 

He dined in the small room, as before, but alone, without the 
tax-collector; for Binet, weary of waiting for the Hirondelle, had 
unconditionally advanced his meal time an hour, and now dined 
precisely at five, still c laimin g that most of the time “the old rattle¬ 
trap was late.” 

L4on came to a decision; he went to knock at the physician’s 
door. Madame was in her room, from which she did not come down 
until a quarter of an hour later. Monsiem seemed delighted to see 
him again; but he did not stir from the house that evening nor all 
the following day. 

He saw her alone, in the evening, very late, in the little street 

217 



behind the garden—in the httle street, just as it had been with 
the otherl It was storming, and they talked under an umbrella, 
by lightning flashes. 

Their separation was becoming intolerable. 

“Death would be better,” Emma said. 

She twisted herself over his arm, weeping. 

“Good-by, good-by . . . When shall I see you again?” 

They turned back to embrace once more; and it was then that 
she promised him to find soon, by some means, a permanent pre¬ 
text for seeing him freely—at least once a week, Emma thought 
likely. She was brimming with optimism in any case. Some money 
was about to come to her. 

Thus she bought for her room a pair of wide-striped yellow 
curtains, the cheapness of which Monsieur Lheureux had vaunted 
to her; she dreamed of a carpet, and Lheureux, declaring that “it 
wasn't like drinking the sea dry,” politely imdertook to provide her 
with one. She could no longer do without his services. Twenty 
times a day she sent for him, and he would drop everything im¬ 
mediately, without a murmur. Further, no one understood why 
M^re Rollet lunched at her house every day, and even paid her 
special visits. 

It was about this time—that is, toward the beginning of winter— 
that she seemed to be seized by a great musical enthusiasm. 

One evening while Charles was listening, she began the same 
piece four times over, each time expressing vexation with herself, 
while he, without noticing any difference, cried: 

“Bravo! . . . Very good! . . . Go along with you, you're wrong!” 

“Oh, no, it's terrible! My fingers are rusty.” 

The next day he begged her to “play something for him again.” 

“Very well. Just to please you.” 

And Charles admitted that she had fallen off somewhat. She 
mistook the key, she stumbled; then, stopping short: 

“Ah, that's enough! I'd have to take lessons, but ...” She bit her 
lips and added: “Twenty francs a lesson, that's too dear.” 

“Yes, it is, a little ...” Charles said, chuckling foolishly. “How¬ 
ever, it seems to me you might be able to do it for less; there are 
artists without reputations who are often better than the famous 
teachers.” 


218 



“Name one,” Emma said. 

The next day when he came home he gave her a sly glance, and 
at length could not resist saying: 

“How stubborn you are sometimesi I was in Barfeucheres today. 
Well, Madame Liegard assured me that her three daughters, who 
are at La Misericorde, were taking lessons averaging about fifty 
sous apiece, and from a famous teacher besidesl” 

She shrugged her shoulders and no longer opened her piano. 
But when she passed it (if Bovary happened to be tliere), she 
would sigh, “Oh, my poor pianol” 

And when callers came she did not fail to mention the fact that 
she had given up music and now could not go back to it, for 
financial reasons. They pitied her, then. It was a shame! She had 
such a nice talent. They even spoke to Bovary about it. They 
shamed him, particularly the pharmacist: 

“Youre making a mistake. Natural talents should never be 
allowed to lie fallow. Besides, consider, my dear friend, that by 
urging Madame to study, you will economize later on yoiu: child’s 
musical education! In my opinion, mothers ought to teach their 
children themselves. That’s one of Rousseau’s theories, still a bit 
new, perhaps, but it will triumph in the end I feel sure, like 
maternal breast-feeding and vaccination.” 

So Charles returned once more to this question of the piano. 
Emma answered bitterly that it would be more worth while to sell 
it. To see the departure of that poor piano which had caused him 
so much prideful satisfaction was for Bovary like the indefinable 
suicide of a part of herself. 

“If you’d like to ...” he would say, from time to time, “one les¬ 
son, that wouldn’t be so ruinous, after all.” 

“But lessons,” she would answer, “are profitable only if kept up.” 

And that was how she went about securing her husband’s per¬ 
mission to go to the city once a week to visit her lover. At the end 
of a month she was even considered to have made considerable 
progress. 


219 



was Thursday. She would 
rise and dress silently, in order not to awaken 
Charles, who would have made comments upon her 
getting ready too early. Then she would walk up and down; she 
would stand at the windows and look out at the square. The dawn 
light crept in among the pillars of the market-place, and the phar¬ 
macist’s house, with its shutters closed, flaunted the bold letters of 
its sign in the pale light of daybreak. 

When the clock pointed to a quarter past seven she would go 
over to the Lion dOr, where Art^mise, yawning, would come to 
open the door. She woxild blow up for Madame the embers buried 
under the ashes. Emma would wait alone in the kitchen. From 
time to time she would step out. Hivert would be hitching up 
without haste, and, in addition, listening to Madame Lefran 9 ois 
who, thrusting her nightcapped head out through a small window, 
was charging him with errands enough and giving him explanations 
enough to turn the wits of any other man. 

Emma would stamp the soles of her shoes against the courtyard 
pavement. 

At last, when he had eaten his soup, put on his cloak, lighted 
his pipe and taken his whip in his fist, he would take his place 
tranquilly upon the driver’s seat. 

The Hirondelle set off at a leisurely trot and, for about two 
miles, kept stopping here and there to take on passengers who 
stood waiting for it at the side of the road, before courtyard gates. 
Those who had given notice the day before kept it waiting; some 
were even still in bed in their houses; Hivert would call, shout, 
curse, then he would clamber dovm from his seat and go to beat 
loudly on the doors. The wind whistled in through the tattered 
curtains. 


220 



Meanwhile, the four passenger seats filled up; the carriage rolled 
along, the rows of apple trees passed one after the other; and the 
road, between its two long ditches filled with yellow water, ran 
constantly ahead, narrowing toward the horizon. 

Emma knew it from end to end; she knew that after a pasture 
came a sign-post, then an elm tree, a bam or road-worker’s hut; 
sometimes, in order to surprise herself, she would even close her 
eyes. But she never lost the clear consciousness of tlie distance 
still to be covered. 

Eventually brick houses began to appear, the ground mmbled 
beneath the wheels, the Hirondelle rolled between gardens in 
which, through wickets, one saw statues, trailing myrtle, sculptured 
yews or a seesaw. Then, in the twinkling of an eye, the city came 
into view. 

To her, something dizzying emanated from these massed ex¬ 
istences, and her heart swelled amply with it, as if the hundred 
and twenty thousand souls which throbbed there had all at once 
sent forth the vapors of the passions she attributed to them. Her 
love expanded in the presence of the city, and was filled with 
tumult by the vague humming that rose from it. 

They paused at the gate; E mm a would imbuckle her overshoes, 
put on fresh gloves, adjust her shawl and, twenty yards farther on, 
she would descend from the Hirondelle. 

By this time the city was waking. Clerks in Greek caps were 
polishing the show windows of shops, and women carrying baskets 
on their hips called out piercingly at intervals on street comers. 
She walked with her eyes on the ground, brushing close to the 
walls and smiling with delight beneath her lowered black veil. 

For fear of being seen, she did not ordinarily take the shortest 
way. She hurried through dark side streets, and emerged bathed 
in perspiration near the lower end of the Rue Nationale, by the 
fountain which stands there. This is the quarter given over to the 
theater, to taverns and girls. Often a cart passed close to her, bear¬ 
ing some quivering stage-set. Aproned waiters sprinkled sand over 
flagstones, between green shrubs. One smelled absinthe, cigars and 
oysters. 

She would turn down a street; she would recognize him by the 
curly hair escaping from under bis hat 

m 



Leon would continue to walk along the sidewalk. She would 
follow him to the hotel; he would go upstairs, open a door, enter 
. . . what an embrace! 

Then, after the kisses, words poured out. They told one another 
the sorrows of the week, the presentiments, the anxieties over let¬ 
ters; but now all was forgotten, and they gazed at one another 
face to face, with sensuous laughter and tender endearments. 

The bed was a large mahogany bed shaped like a boat. The red 
silk curtains which hung down from the ceiling curved close to 
the broad headboard; and nothing in the world was so beautiful 
as her dark head and her white skin standing out against that 
crimson color when, in a gesture of modesty, she drew her bare 
arms together, hiding her face in her hands. 

The warm room with its discreet carpet, its whimsical ornaments 
and its tranquil light seemed expressly suited to the intimacies of 
passion. The curtain rods ended in arrowheads, the brass clothes 
hooks and the large balls of the andirons gleamed suddenly, if the 
sunlight shone in. On the mantelpiece, between the candlesticks, 
there were two of those great pink shells in which one hears the 
sound of the sea when one holds them against the ear. 

How they loved this good room full of gaiety in spite of its some¬ 
what faded splendor! They always found the furniture in its ac¬ 
customed places, and sometimes hairpins which she had forgotten, 
the Thursday before, under the base of the clock. They lunched 
before the fire, on a small side table inlaid with rosewood. Emma 
carved, serving morsels onto his plate while going through all sorts 
of playful tricks; and she would laugh with a deep-toned voluptuous 
laugh when the froth of the champagne overflowed the slender 
glass onto the rings on her fingers. They were so utterly lost in 
possession of each other that they beheved themselves to be in 
their own home, there to live until death, like two married people 
eternally young. They said our room, our carpet, our armchairs, she 
even said “my slippers”—a gift from L6on, a fancy she had taken. 
They were rose satin slippers, edged with swansdown. When she 
sat on his lap her leg, too short to reach the floor, hung in the 
air; and the delicate shpper, which had no back, climg to her bare 
foot only by the toes. 

He was savoring for the first time the inexpressible delicacy of 

222 



feminine daintinesses. Never had he encountered that grace of 
speech, that conservativeness in dress, those postures of a languid 
dove. He admired the exaltation of her soul and the lace of her 
skirt. Furthermore, was she not a woman of the world, and a 
married woman—a true mistress, in fact? 

Through the variety of her moods, mystic or gay by turns, talk¬ 
ative, taciturn, passionate, indifferent, she went on rousing in him 
a thousand desires, summoning instincts or reminiscences. She was 
the lover in every novel, the heroine of every drama, the vague she 
of every poem. Often, gazing at her, it seemed to him that his soul, 
going out to her, shattered like a wave upon the contours of her 
head and flowed down, drawn into the whiteness of her bosom. 

He would crouch on the floor in front of her; and, his elbows 
on her knees, would stare at her with a smile, his brow held up 
to her. 

She would lean toward him and murmur, as if stifled with 
emotion: 

“Oh, don’t stir, don’t speakl Look at me. Something comes from 
your eyes that is so sweet, that does me so much goodl” 

She would call him child: 

“Child, do you love me?” 

And she never heard his answer, in the impatience of his lips 
rising to meet her mouth. 

On the clock there was a small bronze Cupid who simpered, 
encircling a gilt wreath with his arms. They laughed over him 
many times, but when they had to part, everything seemed serious 
to them. Motionless, facing one another, they repeated: 

“Until Thursdayl Until Thursdayl” 

Suddenly she would take his head between her two hands, kiss 
him quickly on the forehead, crying, “Good-byl” and dart down the 
stairway. 

She would go to a hairdresser in the Rue de la Com4die to have 
her hair rearranged. Night was f allin g; the gas was being lighted 
in the shop. 

Then she would go out. She walked back up the streets; she 
reached the Croix Rouge; she put on her overshoes which she had 
hidden that morning beneath one of the stagecoach seats, and 
huddled in her seat among the impatient passengers. Some of them 

223 



got out at the bottom of the slope. She would be left alone in the 
coach. 

Beside the downward road there was a poor devil wandering 
along vvath his stick in the midst of all the diligences. An assortment 
of rags covered his shoulders, and an ancient battered beaver hat, 
bulging out like a basin, hid his face; but when he pulled it off he 
revealed, in place of eyelids, two gaping bloodshot sockets. The 
flesh hung out in red tatters; and from it oozed moisture which 
dried to a green scurf r unnin g down to his nose, the black nostrils 
of which sniffled convulsively. In speaking to anyone he tipped his 
head back with an idiot laugh; then his bluish eyeballs, rolling in 
a continuous motion, turned up toward his temples, at the edges 
of the open sores. 

He sang a little song as he followed the carriages: 

“Warm sun s hinin g up above 
Makes a young girl dream of love.” 

And throughout the rest of it were birds, sunlight and green 
leaves. 

Sometimes he appeared suddenly behind Emma, bareheaded. 
She would draw back with a cry. Hivert would joke with him. He 
would urge him to take a booth at the Saint-Romain fair, or else 
ask him, chuckling, how his sweetheart was. 

At home, Charles was waiting for her; the Hirondelle was always 
late on Thursday. At last Madame camel She barely kissed the little 
girl. Dinner was not ready, no matter! She forgave the cook. The 
girl seemed to be permitted every liberty, now. 

Often her husband, noticing her pallor, asked if she did not 
feel ill. 

“No,” Emma would say. 

“But you re very strange this evening,” he would insist, 

“Oh, it's nothing, it's nothingl” 

There were even days when, no more than returned home, she 
would go up to her room; and Justin, who often happened to be 
there, would move about with silent steps, more skilled at waiting 
upon her than an excellent lady's maid. He placed matches, the 
candlestick, a book, laid out her nightdress, turned down the bed. 

224 



“Go along,” she would say. “That*s fine, go on!” 

For he would stand there, his hands hanging and his eyes staring, 
as if caught in the innumerable filaments of a sudden trance. 

The following day was frightful, and the ones that came after 
even more intolerable because of Emma’s impatience to recapture 
her happiness—a fierce desire inflamed by familiar images, which, 
on the seventh day, would be joyfully released in Leon s caresses. 
His own ardors were concealed beneath transports of wonder and 
gratitude. Emma savored this love in a prudent and concentrated 
manner, nourished it by every artifice of her tenderness and was 
apprehensive that it might be lost later on. 

She often said to him, with melancholy gentleness in her voice: 

“Ah, you’ll leave me . . . you’ll get married! You'll be like the 
others.” 

He demanded: “What others?” 

“Why, men,” she answered. 

Then she would add, pus hin g him away with a sorrowful gesture: 
“You are all scoundrels.” 

One day when they were talking philosophically of earthly disil- 
lusionments, she was inspired to say (in order to experiment with 
his jealousy, or perhaps yielding to an insuperable need of outlet) 
that once, before him, she had loved someone, “not like you! she 
went on hurriedly, swearing by her daughter’s head that “nothing 
had happened.” 

The young man believed her, but nevertheless questioned her 
to find out what had been the other man’s trade. 

“He was a ship’s captain, my darling ” 

Was this not the way to forestall any investigation, and at the 
same time raise herself to a very lofty position by this invented 
fascination exercised upon a man who must have been valiant by 
nature and accustomed to respect? 

Then the clerk felt the instability of his position; he longed for 
epaulettes, medals, titles. All that sort of thing should appeal to 
her; he was aware of her spendthrift habits. 

Yet Emma was silent about many of her extravagant desires, sucdi 
as her yearning for a blue tilbury drawn by an English horse and 
driven by a groom in high-topped boots, to take her to Rouen. 
It was Justin who had suggested the fancy to her by begging her 

225 



to take him into service as a houseman; and although this privation 
did not diminish the joy of arriving at each rendezvous, it did 
aggravate the bitterness of the journey home. 

Often, when they were speaking of Paris together, she would 
murmur at last: 

“Ah, how lovely it would be if we could live there!” 

“Aren’t we happy?” the young man would return gently, stroking 
her hair. 

“Yes, of course,” she would say. “I’m foolish: kiss me!” 

Toward her husband she was more charming than ever, made 
pistachio creams for him and played waltzes after dinner. He con¬ 
sidered himself, therefore, the most fortunate of mortals, and 
Emma was living without any apprehensions when one evening, 
abruptly: 

“It’s Mademoiselle Lempereur who’s giving you lessons, isn’t it?” 

^‘Yes.” 

“Well, I saw her just now at Madame Li^geard’s,” Charles went 
on. “I spoke to her about you: she doesn’t know you.” 

It was like a thimderclap. She answered, however, in a natural 
manner: 

“Oh, I suppose she must have forgotten my name.” 

“But perhaps in Rouen,” the doctor said, “there are several 
Mesdemoiselles Lempereur who are piano teachers?” 

“It’s possible.” 

Then, eagerly: “Why, I even have her receipts, look here!” 

And she went to the secretary, rummaged in all the drawers, 
mixed up papers and in the end so thoroughly lost her head that 
Charles urged her strongly not to go to so much trouble over those 
miserable receipts. 

“Oh, rU come across them,” she said. 

Indeed, the very next Friday, Charles, putting on his boots in 
the dark closet where his clothes were kept, felt a sheet of paper 
between the leather and his sock; be took it out and read: 

“Received, for three months’ lessons plus various supplies, the 
sum of sixty-five francs. F41ice Lempereur, professor of music.” 

“How the devil did it get into my boots?” 

“It must have fallen out of the old cardboard box full of bills 
that’s on the edge of the shelf.” 


226 



From this moment on, her life was no more than an amalgama¬ 
tion of lies in which she wrapped her love as if in veils, to hide it. 

It was a necessity, a fixation, a pleasure, to such a point that if 
she said that she had walked down the right-hand side of a street 
the day before, it should be assumed that she had taken the left- 
hand side. 

One morning when she had just left, rather lightly dressed as 
usual, there was a sudden snowfall; and as Charles was looking at 
the weather through the window, he caught sight of Monsieur 
Boumisien in Mayor Tuvache’s dogcart which was taking him to 
Rouen. He went downstairs, therefore, to intrust to the clergyman 
a heavy shawl, in order that he might deliver it to Madame as soon 
as he reached the Croix Rouge. Boumisien had no more than ar¬ 
rived at the inn when he asked where the doctor’s wife from Yonville 
was. The innkeeper replied that she rarely came to his establish¬ 
ment. That evening, in consequence, meeting Madame Bovary in 
the Hirondelle, the priest told her about his difficulties, without, 
however, see min g to attach any importance to it; for he launched 
into praise of a preacher who was working wonders at the cathedral 
just then, and whom all the women were flocking to hear. 

Nevertheless, although he had not asked for explanations, others, 
later on, might be less discreet. So she found it expedient to stop in 
at the Croix Rouge every Thursday, so that the good folk from her 
village who saw her on the stairs would suspect nothing. 

One day, however. Monsieur Lheureux met her coming out of 
the Hotel de Boulogne on L6on*s arm; and she was frightened, 
assuming that he would gossip. He was not so stupid. 

But three days later he came into her room, closed the door and 
said: 

“I need money.” 

She declared that she was unable to give him any. Lheureux 
overflowed with lamentations, and recalled all the kindnesses he 
had shown. 

In fact, of the two notes signed by Charles, Emma had so far 
paid but one. As for the second, the shopkeeper at her request had 
consented to replace it with two others, and even these had been 
renewed on a very long term. Then he drew from his pocket a 
list of merchandise unpaid for: the curtains, the carpet, material 

227 



for covering armchairs, several dresses and various toilet articles, 
the value of which came to the sum of about two thousand francs. 

She hung her head; he went on: 

“Well, if you haven't cash, you have property." 

And he mentioned a wretched hovel situated in Bameville, near 
Aumale, which brought in very little return. It had once been part 
of a small farm sold by Monsieur Bovary, senior, for Lheureux 
knew everything, even to tbe number of acres and the names of 
the neighbors. 

“In your place," he said, Td discharge my debts, and I'd still 
have the rest of the money over.” 

She brought up the difficulty of finding a buyer; he held out 
hope of finding one; but she asked how she must go about getting 
the authority to sell. 

“Haven’t you the power of attorney?” he answered. 

These words came to her like a breath of fresh air. 

“Leave the note with me,” Emma said. 

“Oh, it’s not worth troubling about,” Lheureux said. 

He came back the following week and boasted of having at last, 
after going to great lengths, unearthed a certain Langlois who had 
for a long time been coveting the property without stating his 
price. 

“Never mind the pricel” she exclaimed. 

On the contrary, she must wait, sound the fellow out. The matter 
was worth the trouble of a journey and, as she could not undertake 
this journey, he offered to go to the spot and interview Langlois. 
Upon his return he announced that the buyer offered four thousand 
francs. 

Emma glowed at this news. 

“Frankly,” he added, “it’s a good price.” 

She received half the sum immediately and, when she went 
to settle her account, the merchant said to her: 

“On my honor, I hate to see you give up so important a sum all 
at once.” 

She gazed at the bank notes; and, dreaming of the illimitable 
number of rendezvous these two thousand francs represented: 

“Whatl How?” she stammered. 

“Oh,” he said, laughing with a good-natured air, “you put what- 

228 



ever you like toward the bills. Don’t I understand household 
matters?" 

And he stared at her intently, while holding in his hand two 
long papers which he slipped back and forth between his fingers. 
At length, opening his notecase, he spread out on the table four 
bills, payable to order, each for one thousand francs. 

“Sign this for me,” he said, “and keep everything.” 

She protested, shocked. 

“But if I give you what’s left over,” Monsieur Lheureux replied 
brazenly, “that’s doing you a service, isn’t it?” 

And, picking up a pen, he wrote at the bottom of the bill: Re¬ 
ceived of Madame Bovary four thousand francs. 

“What’s worrying you, since in six months you’ll receive the 
balance from your sale, and I’ve set the expiration date of the final 
note for after that payment?” 

Emma was somewhat bewildered by these calculations, and her 
ears were ringing as if gold pieces, bursting from their sacks, were 
clinking all about her, on the floor. At last Lheureux explained that 
he had a bosom friend Vin^art, a banker in Rouen, who would cash 
these four notes, then he him self would return to Madame the 
surplus over the actual debt 

But instead of two thousand francs, he brought only eighteen 
hundred, for his friend Vin 9 art (of course) had taken out two hun¬ 
dred in payment of expenses and commission. 

'Then he casually asked for a receipt. 

“You understand—in business—sometimes . . . And with the date, 
please, the date.” 

Now a new horizon of realizable fancies opened out before 
Emma. She was prudent enough to put aside a thousand ecus with 
which the fiirst three notes were paid as they expired; but the 
fourth, by chance, came to the house on a Thmrsday, and Charles, 
dumbfounded, patiently awaited his wife’s return for an explanation. 

If she had not told him about this note, it was in order to spare 
him domestic worries; she sat on his knees, caressed him, cooed, 
made a lengthy enumeration of all the indispensable items bought 
on credit 

“Anyway, you’ll admit that in view of the quantity, it’s not too 
expensive.” 


229 



Charles, at his wits* end, soon had recourse to the eternal Lheu- 
reux, who swore to arrange matters if Monsieur would sign two 
notes, one of them for seven hundred francs, payable in three 
months. In order to be able to do this, Charles wrote a pathetic 
letter to his mother. Rather than sending her answer, she came her¬ 
self; and when Emma asked whether he had got anything out of 
her: 

“Yes,” he said. “But she insists on seeing the bill.” 

The next day at dawn Emma hurried to Monsieur Lheureux to 
beg him to make out another statement which would be for not 
more than a thousand francs; for, in order to show the one for four 
thousand, she would have had to confess the sale of the real estate, 
a negotiation discreetly handled by the merchant and actually not 
known until later. 

In spite of the very low price of each article, Madame Bovary 
did not fail to find the outlay disproportionate. 

“Couldn’t you do without a carpet? Why have the armchairs 
recovered? In my day, we had just one armchair in a house, for the 
old people—at least that’s the way it was in my mother’s house, and 
she was an honest woman, I assure you— Everyone can’t be richl 
No fortune is proof against waste. I’d blush to pamper myself the 
way you do, and yet I’m old, I need comfortsl . .. And more, morel 
Clothes, claptrapl What, lining-silk at a hundred francs, when 
there’s jaconet to be had for ten sous, even eight sous, that does 
perfectly welll” 

Emma, leaning back in the love seat, answered as serenely as 
possible: 

“Oh, Madame, enoughl Enoughl” 

The other woman continued to preach, predicting that they 
would end up in the poorhouse. In any case, it was Bovary’s fault. 
Fortunately he had promised to cancel that power of attorney . . . 

“What?” 

“Oh, he swore to me that he would,” the good woman said. 

Emma opened the window, called Charles, and the poor fellow 
was obliged to admit the promise forced out by his mother. 

Emma disappeared, then speedily returned, majestically holding 
out a thick sheet of paper. 

“Thank you,” the old woman said, 

230 



And she flung the power of attorney on the fire. 

Emma began to laugh a strident, shrill, prolonged laugh: she was 

having a hysterical attack. 

“Oh, my God!” Charles cried. “Look, you re wrong, too! You come 

here making scenes with her ... 1” 

His mother, shrugging, insisted that “that was all put on. 

But Charles, rebelling for the first time, came to his wife s de¬ 
fense, with the result that Madame Bovary insisted upon leaving. 
She went the next morning and, upon the threshold, as he was 

trying to deter her, she answered: 

“No, nol You love her better than me, and you’re right, that’s 
natural. Aside from that, it’s so much the worse for you, you’ll 
seel .. . Keep welll- For it will be some time before I come again, 

as you say, to make scenes with her.” 

For all this, Charles remained none the less highly abashed in 
Emma’s presence, as she did not conceal the grudge she bore him 
for having lacked confidence; it took much pleading before she 
would consent to resume her power of attorney, and he even went 
with her to Monsieur Guillaumin’s office to have a second one 

drawn up for her, exactly like the first. 

“I understand that,” the lawyer said. A man of science can t be 

bothered with the practical details of life. 

And Charles felt comforted by this soothing observation which 
gave to his weakness the flattering aspect of a superior preoccu¬ 
pation. 

What an outpointing, the following 'Thursday at the hotel, in their 
room, with L6onl She laughed, cried, sang, danced, had ices sent 
up, insisted upon smoking cigarettes, seemed to him to be extrava¬ 
gant but adorable, superb. 

He did not know what reaction of her whole being it was that 
drove her to fling herself more recklessly into the joys of living. She 
became irritable, greedy and sensual; she walked in the streets with 
him, her head held high, without fear, she said, of being com¬ 
promised. Sometimes, however, Emma shuddered at the thought of 
meeting Rodolphe; for it seemed to her that, although they had 
parted forever, she was not completely deUvered from her sub¬ 
jection. ^ 

One evening she did not return to Yonville. Charles lost his head 

231 



over it, and little Berthe, refusing to go to bed vidthout her mother, 
sobbed as if to rupture her chest. Justin had set out at random upon 
the road. Monsieur Homais had left the pharmacy because of it. 

At length, at eleven o’clock, unable to endure any longer, Charles 
hitched up his dogcart, leaped in, whipped up his horse and 
reached the Croix Rouge at close to two in the morning. No one 
there. He thought that perhaps the clerk had seen her; but where 
did he live? Charles, fortunately, recalled his employers address. 
He hurried to it. 

Day was beginning to break. He made out a scutcheon above a 
door; he knocked. Someone, without opening the door, called out 
the desired information, adding a number of insulting observations 
upon those who disturbed people at night. 

The house in which the clerk lived had neither bell, knocker nor 
porter. Charles beat on the shutters vrith his fist. A policeman hap¬ 
pened to pass; at this he took fright and went away. 

“I’m mad,” he thought. “Probably they asked her to stay for din¬ 
ner at Monsieur Lormeaux’.” 

The Lormeaux family no longer lived in Rouen. 

“She must have stayed to look after Madame Dubreuil. Oh, 
Madame Dubreuil died ten months ago! Where is she, then?” 

An idea came to him. In a caf6 he asked for the Annuaire and 
quickly looked up the name of Mademoiselle Lempereur, who lived 
in the Rue de la Renelle-des-Marocuiniers, number 74. 

As he was turning into this street, Emma herself appeared at the 
far end; he fell upon, rather than embraced her, crying: 

“What kept you, yesterday?” 

“I was taken ill.” 

“With what? Where? How?” 

She brushed her hand across her forehead and answered: 

“At Mademoiselle Lempereur’s.” 
was sure of itl I was going there.” 

“Oh, it would be a waste of time,” Emma said. “She just went 
out a little while ago. But from now on, don’t worry. I’m not free, 
you know, if I feel that the least delay upsets you this way.” 

It was a sort of Ucense she gave herself, not to be troubled in her 
escapades. She took advantage of it as she pleased, fully. When the 
desire to see L6on took her, she would go upon any pretext what- 

232 




Lheureux confronts Madame Bovary with her accounts. 


SR\ PRATAP COLLEGE LIBRARY 

SRINAGAR ( Kashmir ) 

DATE LOANED 

Class No _ Booh No. _ 

Acc. No. __ 

This book may be kept for 14 days. An over - due 
charge will be levied at the rate of 10 Raise for each day 
the book Is kept over - time. 


ever, and as he would not be expecting her that day, she would go 
to his office in search of him. 

This was a great delight, the first few times; but soon he no 

longer concealed the truth, which was that his employer was com- 

% 

plaining bitterly of these interruptions. 

“Oh, nonsense! Come along,” she said. 

And he would shp out. 

She wanted him to dress all in black and grow a goatee on his 
chin, to resemble Lotiis XII’s portraits. She wished to see his room, 
foimd it mean; he blushed over it, she paid no attention, then ad¬ 
vised him to buy curtains like hers and, when he protested the 
expense: 

“Ah, you set store by your little gold pieces!” she said, laughing. 
Each time, Leon was obliged to tell her everything he had done 
since their last meeting. She demanded poems, poems to her, a 
“love ode” in her honor; he was never able to find a rhyme for the 
second line, and in the end he copied a sonnet from a keepsake. 

It was less from vanity than from the sole object of pleasing her. 
He did not argue with her ideas; he accepted all her tastes; he 
became her mistress rather than she his. She used tender words and 
kisses that took his soul away. Where, then, had she learned this 
corruption, almost immaterial in its depth and dissimulation? 


233 



oi^^uRiNG the trips he made to see 
her, L4on had frequently dined at the phar¬ 
macist’s, and felt himself obliged by courtesy to invite 
him in return. 

“Gladly!” Monsieur Homais had answered. ‘In any case, I need 
a bit of relaxation, for I’m getting in a rut here. We’ll go to the 
theater, to a restaurant, we'll do the town!” 

“Oh, my dear!” Madame Homais murmured tenderly, alarmed by 
the vague perils he was about to court. 

“Well, what? You think I’m not ruining my health sufficiently, 
living among the constant emanations of the pharmacy? That’s a 
woman’s character for you: they’re jealous of science, then they’re 
opposed to one’s taking legitimate recreation. Never mind, count 
on me, one of these days I'll show up in Rouen and well make the 
chips fly, the two of us.” 

Formerly the apothecary would have been most careful to avoid 
using such an expression; but now he was developing a sportive 
and Parisian manner which he considered in excellent taste, and 
like his neighbor Madame Bovary, he questioned the clerk eagerly 
about the customs of the capital, he even spoke slang to impress 
the ... common people, saying “shanty,” “swell,” “high-hat,” “Breda- 

street” and “I’m off” for “I am going.” 

Thus, on Thursday, Emma was surprised, in the Lion dOr 
kitchen, to meet Monsieur Homais in traveling costume, that is: 
wrapped in an old cloak which no one knew him to possess, while 
in one hand he carried a suitcase and in the other the foot-warmer 
from his establishment. He had told no one of his plans, for fear 
of alarming the public by his absence. 

The thought of seeing again the places in which his youth had 
been spent must have inspired him, for all along the way he never 

234 



ceased chattering; then, barely arrived, he sprang from the coach 
to go in search of Leon; and the clerk struggled in vain. Monsieur 
Homais dragged him off to the great Normandie restaurant, which 
he entered majestically without removing his hat, considering it 
highly provincial to uncover his head in a public place. 

Emma waited three-quarters of an hour for Leon. At length she 
hurried to his office and, lost in all sorts of conjectures, accusing 
him of indifference and reproaching herself for her weakness, she 
spent the afternoon pressed to the windows. 

At two o’clock the men were still seated at table, face to face. 
The great room was emptying; the stovepipe, shaped like a palm 
tree, spread out its gilded fronds against the white ceiling; and near 
them, behind the plate glass window, in full sunlight, a small jet 
of water bubbled in a marble basin in which, among the water 
cress and asparagus, three torpid lobsters stretched out toward some 
quail, all piled in a heap, on their backs. 

Homais was enjoying himself hugely. Although he was even 
more intoxicated with luxury than with good cheer, still the Pomard 
wine had stimulated his wits somewhat, and by the time the runi 
omelet appeared he was expounding immoral theories about women. 
What attracted him above all was “smartness.” He adored an ele¬ 
gant costume in a well-fumished room, and as far as fleshly charms 
went, was not averse to a “morsel.” 

L^n was watching the clock with despair. The apothecary was 
drinking, eating, talking. 

“You must have plenty of privacy in Rouen,” he said suddenly. 
“Anyway, your sweethearts don’t live far away.” 

And, as the other reddened: 

“Come now, be frank. Can you deny that in Yonville , . . 

The young man stammered. 

“. . . at Madame Bovary’s house, you were courting . . . ?” 

“Well, whom?” 

“The maid!” 

He was not joking; but, vanity prevailing over discretion, L6on 
protested in spite of himself. Besides, he liked only dark-haired 
women. 

“I agree with you,” the pharmacist said. “They have more tem¬ 
perament.” 


235 



And, leaning to his friend's ear, he outlined the symptoms by 
which one could tell that a woman had temperament. He even em¬ 
barked upon an ethnographical digression: German women were 
vaporish, French women wanton, Italian women passionate, 

“And Negresses?” the clerk asked. 

“That’s an artist’s taste,” Homais said. “-Waiter! Two demi- 


tdSSCS*” 

“Shall we go?” L6on said at last, becoming impatient 
“Yes.” 

But before leaving, he insisted upon seeing the proprietor of the 


establishment and offering him a few compliments. 

Then the young man, in order to be alone, declared that he had 

business to attend to. 

“Ah, I shall escort you!” Homais said. 

And, while walking down the streets with him, he kept chatter¬ 
ing of'his wife, his children, their future and his pharmacy, de¬ 
scribing the decadence in which it had formerly been and the point 
of perfection to which he had raised it. 

Arrived before the Hotel de Boulogne, L6on left him abruptly, 
dashed upstairs and found his mistress in great emotional agitation. 

At the pharmacist’s name, she flew into a passion. However, he 
kept heaping up good excuses; it was not his fault, didn t she know 
Monsieur Homais? Could she believe that he preferred his com¬ 
pany to hers? But she turned away; he held her back; and, sinking 
to his knees, he encircled her waist with his arms in a languorous 

pose full of concupiscence and supplication. 

She was standing; her great blazing eyes stared at him gravely 
and in an almost frightening manner. Then tears clouded them, her 
pink eyelids closed down, she yielded her hands and L6on was 
raising them to his lips when a servant appeared to inform Monsieur 

that someone was asking for him. 

“You will come back?” she said. 


‘Tes.” 

“But when?” 

‘TUght away.” 

‘It’s a dodge,” the pharmacist said, catching sight of Leon. 1 
wanted to interrupt that visit, it seemed to be annoying you. Let’s 
go to Bridoux’ and have a glass of gams.” 

236 



L6oii swore that he must return to his ofiBce. Upon this, the 
apothecary made jokes about red tape and legal procedure. 

“Leave Cujas and Barthole for a bit. What the devil, who's to 
stop you? Be bold! Lets go to Bridoux'; you can see his dog. It’s 
very curious!” 

And as the clerk still resisted: 

“Then Ill go with you. Ill read a newspaper while I wait for 

you, or rU look through a law book.” 

Leon, shuined by Emma’s fiury. Monsieur Homais’ chatter and 
perhaps the weight of the luncheon, remained undecided and as if 
under the spell of the pharmacist who kept repeating: 

“Let’s go to Bridoux’. It’s only a step from here, in the Rue 
Malpalu.” 

So, out of cowardice, out of stupidity, out of that indefinable 
sentiment which forces us into the most antipathetic actions, he let 
himself be taken to Bridoux* house; and they found him in his small 
yard, superintending three boys who were panting as they turned 
the great wheel of a machine for making seltzer water. Homais 
gave them advice; he embraced Bridoux; they drank gams. Twenty 
times lAon tried to get away; but the other caught him back by 
the arm, saying: 

“Right away! I’m coming. We’ll go to the Fanal de Rouen, to see 
those gentlemen. I’ll introduce you to Thomassin.” 

He extricated himself, however, and raced back to the hotel. 
Emma was no longer there. 

She had just left, enraged. She detested him now. This breach of 
his word at their rende 2 wous seemed an outrage to her, and she 
sought still other reasons for breaking off with him: he was in¬ 
capable of heroism, feeble, ordinary, softer than a woman, greedy, 
besides, and pusillanimous. 

Then, becoming calmer, she eventually discovered that she had 
probably been unjust to him. But vilifying those we love always 
alienates us from them to a certain extent. Idols should not be 
touched: the gilding comes off on the hands. 

Because of this, they began to talk oftener of things unrelated to 
their love; and, in the letters Emma sent him, she spoke of flowers, 
poems, the moon and stars, artless resources of a diminished pas¬ 
sion which seeks to revivify itself by means of all external stimuli. 


237 






She continually promised herself, for her next journey, a pro¬ 
found rapture; afterwards she would admit to herself that she had 
felt nothing extraordinary. This disappointment was speedily sub¬ 
merged beneath renewed optimism, and Emma would return to 
him more ardent, more avid. She would undress roughly, tearing 
at the thin lacing of her bodice, which rustled down aroxmd her 
hips like a ghding adder. She would go on tiptoe in her bare feet to 
see once more if the door was closed, then, in a single movement, 
let all her garments fall together; and, pale, speechless, grave, she 
would flatten herself against his chest with a prolonged shudder. 

To L6on, however, there was on that brow drenched with cold 
drops, on those stammering lips, in those frenzied eyes, in the em¬ 
brace of those arms, something extreme, indefinable and depressing 
which seemed to slip between them, subtly, as if to separate them. 

He did not dare question her; but, discovering her to be so expe¬ 
rienced, he told himself that she must have passed through every 
ordeal of suffering and pleasure. What had once charmed him now 
alarmed him a little. In addition, he was in revolt against the ab¬ 
sorption of his personality, every day more pronounced. He bore 
Emma a grudge for this constant victory. He even forced hnnself 
not to love her; then, at the click of her boot heels, he felt himself 
go slack, like drunkards at sight of strong liquor. 

She did not fail, it is true, to lavish all sorts of attentions upon 
him, from delicacies for the table to artful details of dress and 
languishing glances. She brought roses from Yonville in her bosom 
and flung them in his face, showed imeasiness over his health, gave 
him advice about his conduct and, in order to hold him the more 
surely, hoping that heaven perhaps would take a hand in it, she 
hung a medal of the Virgin aroimd his neck. Like a virtuous mother, 
she inquired about his friends. She would say to him: 

“Don’t see them, don’t go out, don’t think of anything but us; 

love me!” 

She would have liked to be able to superintend his whole life, 
and the notion came to her of having him followed in the streets. 
Near the hotel there was always a kind of vagabond who accosted 
travelers and who would not refuse ... But her pride rebelled. 

“So much the worse, let him deceive me, what do I care? Am I 

dependent upon him?” 


238 



One day when they had parted early, and as she was returning 
alone by way of the boulevard, she glimpsed the walls of her con¬ 
vent; then she sat down on a bench in the shadow of the elms. 
What serenity in those days! How she yearned for those inefiFable 
sentiments of love which she had tried, in imitation of books, to 
envision for herself. 

The first months of her marriage, her rides on horseback in the 
forest, the waltzing viscount and Lagardy singing all passed once 
more before her eyes . . . And suddenly L6on appeared to her in 
the same remoteness as the others. 

“Still, I love himl’^ she said to herself. 

It made no difference. She was not happy, had never been. 
Whence, then, came this insuflBciency on the part of life, this in¬ 
stantaneous decay of things upon which she leaned? ... If some¬ 
where there existed a creature strong and handsome, a valiant 
nature full at once of ardor and of delicacies, a poet’s heart beneath 
an angel’s form, a lyre with brazen strings ringing out elegiac nup¬ 
tial songs to the heavens, why, by chance, should she not find him? 
Oh, what an impossibility! In any case, nothing was worth the effort 
of search; everything lied. Each smile concealed a yawn of boredom, 
each joy a malediction, every pleasure its own disgust, and the most 
ardent kisses left upon the lips only an unrealizable longing for a 
higher gratification. 

A metallic rattle was drawn out in the air and four strokes 
sounded from the convent bell. Four o’clock! And it seemed to her 
that she had been here, on this bench, for an eternity. But an in¬ 
finity of passions can be contained in a minute, like a crowd in a 
small space. 

Emma lived utterly immersed in hers, and troubled no more 
about money than an archduchess. 

Once, however, an unpleasant looking man, rubicund and bald, 
came to her house, stating that he had been sent by Monsieur Vin- 
^art, of Rouen. He withdrew the pins which closed the side pocket 
of his long green coat, thrust them into his cuff and politely held 


out a paper. 

It was a note for seven hundred francs, with her signature, which 
Lheureux, over all her protests, had made over to Vin^art’s order. 


dispatched 


239 



Thereupon the stranger, who had remained standing, castmg to 
right and to left inquisitive glances which his heavy pale eyebrows 

concealed, asked with an innocent air: 

“What answer shall I take Monsieur Vin 9 art?" 

“Well,” Emma said, “tell him ... I haven t got it It will be next 

week . He’ll have to wait . . . yes, next week.” 

And the fellow left without uttering a word. 

But the following day. at noon, she received a protest; and the 
sight of the stamped document upon which was di^layed in sev¬ 
eral places and in large letters: Mmtre Hareng, Sherifi of Buchy, so 
terrified her that she ran with all speed to the cloth merchant. 

She found liim in his shop, tying up a parcel. 

“Your servantl” he said. “At your disposal. 

Lheureux none the less went on with his task, aided by a young 
girl of about thirteen, somewhat humpbacked, who served both as 

his errand girl and as his cook, , r i_ i. v 

Then, clattering his sabots over the floorboards of the shop, he 

led Madame upstairs to the first floor and ushered her into a nar¬ 
row office in which a heavy deal table supported several account 
books, guarded transversely by a padlocked iron bar. Agamst the 
wall, beneath some samples of calico, one glimpsed a safe, but ot 
such dimensions that it must have contained something beyond 
notes and silver. Monsieur Lheureux, as a matter of fact, acted as 
a pawnbroker, and it was here that he kept Madame Bovary s gold 
chain, as well as the earrings of poor P^re Tellier who, forced at 
last to sell, had bought a meager stock of grocer’s goods in Q^- 
campoix where he was dying of his catarrh in the midst of candles 

less yellow than his face. 

Uieureux sat down in his ample rush-bottomed armchair, saying: 
"What’s new?” 

"Look here.” And she showed him the paper. 

‘Well, what can I do about it?” 

Upon this she lost her temper, recalling the promise he had given 
her not to make her notes over to others; he agreed. 

“But I was forced into it myself; the knife was at my throat. 
"And what is going to happen nowr she said. 

“Oh, it’s very simple: a court order, and then seizure . . . and its 

all overl” 


240 



She restrained herself, in order not to strike him. She asked him 
gently if there were not some way to appease Monsieur Vingart. 

“Oh, my, yes, appease Vingart! You don’t know him; he’s more 

ruthless than an Arab.” 

Nevertheless, Monsieur Lheureux must take a hand in the matter. 
"Listen, it seems to me that up to now iVe been pretty good to 

you” 

And, opening one of his registers: "Look here. 

Then, nmning his finger up the page: 

"Let’s see . . . let’s see . . . August third, two hundred francs . . . 
June seventeenth, one hundred and fifty . . . March twenty-third, 
forty-six ... In April.. 

He paused, as if fearing to make some blunder. 

"To say nothing of the notes signed by Monsieur, one for seven 
hundred francs, another for three hundred! As for your little instal¬ 
ment payments, the interest, that keeps going on and on, it s getting 
confusing. I won’t have anything more to do with it! 

She wept, she even called him "her kind Monsieur Lheureux. 
But still he kept coming back to “that dog Vin^art. In any case, he 
hadn’t a penny, nobody was paying him these days, they were rob¬ 
bing him, a poor shopkeeper like himself couldnt make advances. 

Emma fell silent; and Monsieur Lheureux, who was nibbling the 
feather of a quill pen, must have been made uneasy by her silence, 
for he went on: 

"If I had at least some repayment one of these days, I might be 
able . . 

"As far as that goes,” she said, "as soon as the balance from 
Bameville comes in . . ” 

"Whatr 

And, upon learning that Langlois had not yet paid, he seemed 
greatly surprised. Then, in a honeyed voice: 

“And we’re agreed, you say . . . 

“Oh, whatever you like!” 

At this, he closed his eyes to reflect, wrote down a few figures 
and, declaring that he would be in for a great loss, that it was a 
ticklish business and that he was bleeding himself, he dictated four 
notes, each for two hundred and fifty francs, their expiration dates 

spaced a month apart. 


241 



'‘Provided Vm 9 art will listen to me! Anyway, it's understood, I 

don't go back on my word, I'm square as a brick. 

After this he casually showed her several new articles of mer¬ 
chandise, but not one of them, in his opinion, was worthy of 
Madame. 

"When I think that here is dress goods at seven sous a meter, 
and guaranteed fast colorl And yet they swallow that! We don’t 
mention what it’s made of, naturally . . Trying, by this confes¬ 
sion of sharp dealing with others, to convince her completely of his 

probity. 

Then he called her back to show her three ells of guipure lace 
which he had come across recently "at an auction.” 

“Isn’t it beautifuil” Lheureux said. “It’s used a lot just now. for 

antimacassars, that’s the style.” 

And, swifter than a juggler, he wrapped the lace in blue paper 
and put it into Emma's hands. 

“At least let me know ...” 

“Oh, no hurry,” he said, turning on his heel. 

That evening she urged Bovary to write to his mother, to have 
her send them immediately the enHre remainder of the inheritance. 
'The mother-in-law replied that she no longer had anything: ihe 
liquidation was terminated, and there was left for them, in addition 
to Barneville, six hundred livres a year which she would forward 
to them punctually. 

Then Madame sent bills to two or three patients, and soon made 
ample use of this method, which was successful. She was always 
careful to add a postscript: “Do not mention this to my husband, 
you know how proud he is . . . My apologies . . . Yours sin¬ 
cerely ...” There were several complaints; she intercepted them. 

To make money she began to sell her old gloves, her old hats, 
old scrap iron; and she bargained rapaciously-her peasant blood 
drove her to make a profit. Then, on her trips to the city, she bought 
up secondhand trinkets which Monsieur Lheureux, in the absence 
of anything else, would certainly take from her. She bought herself 
ostrich feathers, Chinese porcelain and chests; she borrowed from 
F61icit6, from Madame Lefrangois, from the hostess of the Croix 
RougCy from everyone, no matter where. With the money she 
eventually received from Barneville she paid off two notes, the 

242 



remaining fifteen hundred francs melted away. She borrowed again, 
and so it went on. 

Sometimes, it is true, she tried to calculate, but she discovered 
things so exorbitant that she was unable to believe in them. Then 
she would begin again, speedily become confused, abandon the 

whole matter and think no more about it. 

The house was very gloomy now. One saw merchants leaving it 
with furious faces. There were handkerchiefs hanging on the stoves; 
and httle Berthe, to Madame Homais great horror, wore stockings 
with holes in them. If Charles timidly risked a comment, she an¬ 
swered brutally that it was not her fault. 

Why these spasms of rage? He explained everything by her 
former nervous illness; and, reproaching himself for having taken 
her afiaictions for faults, he accused himself of selfishness, wanted 

to run and embrace her. 

“Oh, no!" he thought. “I’d annoy her ” 

And he stayed where he was. 

After dinner he would walk alone in the garden; he would take 
little Berthe on his knees and, spreading out his medical journal, 
try to teach her to read. The child, who never studied, would 
promptly open great sorrowful eyes and begin to cry. Then he 
would comfort her; he would go and get water in the watering can 
for her to make rivers in the sand, or break off branches of pri\^t 
to plant trees in the flower beds, which did httle damage to the 
garden, all choked as it was with taU weeds; so many days’ wages 
were owing to Lestiboudois! Then the child would feel cold and 

ask for her mother. 

“CaU your nurse,” Charles would say. “You know, darling, your 

mama doesn’t want to be disturbed. 

Autumn was beginning and already the leaves were falling . . . 
as they had done two years before, when she had been illl 
would it all end? . . . And he would go on walking, his hands 

behind his back. . , 

Madame stayed in her room. No one went up there. She remained 

there all day long, torpid, barely dressed, and from time to time 

fighting tablets of harem incense which she had bought in Rouen, 

in an Algerian’s shop. In order not to have that sleepmg man 

stretched out beside her at nighty she finally managed, by s owing 

243 



her distaste, to relegate him to the second floor; and she would read 
until moniing, extravagant books in which were orgiastic images 
and scenes of bloodshed. Often terror would grip her, she would 
cry out. Charles would hasten to her. 

“Ah, go awayl’’ she would say. 

Or at other times, more ardently afire vrith that intimate flame 
which adultery fed, panting, shaken, consumed with desire, she 
would open her window, breathe in the cold air, shake her heavy 
hair out to the wind and, gazing at the stars, yearn for some 
princely love affair. She would think of him, of L^on. At such 
times she would have given anything for a single one of those 
clandestine meetings which appeased her. 

Those were her days of festivity. She wanted them to be mag¬ 
nificent! And, when he was unable to bear the expense alone, as 
happened nearly every time, she generously made up the balance. 
He tried to get her to understand that they would be as comfortable 
elsewhere, in some more modest hotel; but she found objections. 

One day she drew from her handbag six small silver-gilt spoons 
(they were old Rouaults wedding gift), requesting him to go 
immediately and take them to the pavrashop for her; and L6on 
obeyed, although this proceeding was distasteful to him. He was 
afraid of compromising himself. 

Then, thinking it over, he decided that his mistress was acquiring 
strange habits, and that it would perhaps not be unwise to part 
from her. 

As a matter of fact, someone had sent his mother a long anony¬ 
mous letter to warn her that he was “ruining himself with a married 
woman”; and at once the good woman, envisioning the eternal 
bugbear of all families, the vague pernicious creature, the siren, 
the monster who dwells fantastically in the depths of love, wrote 
to Lawyer Dubocage, his employer, who handled the matter per¬ 
fectly. He kept L6on for three-quarters of an hour, trying to open 
his eyes, to warn him of the abyss. Such an intrigue might prove 
injurious to his setting up in practice later on. He begged him to 
break it off, and if he would not make this sacrifice in bis own 
interest, let him at least do it for Dubocage! 

L6on had at length sworn never to see Emma again; and he 
regretted not having kept his word, considering all the embarras- 

244 



ment and talk that woman could still bring down upon him, not 
to mention his fellow clerks jests which were recounted the next 
morning around the stove. Then, too, he was about to become 
chief clerk; it was time to be serious. He therefore renounced the 
flute, exalted sentiments, imagination: for every ordinary man, in 
the fire of his youth, if only for one day, one minute, has beUeved 
himself capable of tremendous passions, of lofty enterprises. The 
commonest hbertine has dreamed of sultanas; every notary bears 

within himself the rehcs of a poet. 

He was bored, now, when Emma suddenly burst out sobbing 
against his chest; and his heart, like those persons who can endure 
only a certain amount of music at one dose, became dull with 
indifference to the outcries of a love whose delicacy he no longer 
perceived. 

They knew one another too well to feel that wonder of possession 
which multiphes the joy of it a hundredfold. She was as disgusted 
with him as he was weary of her. Emma was rediscovering in 

adultery all the platitudes of marriage. 

But how to shake free of it? It was in vain that she felt humfliated 
by the baseness of such gratification, she clung to it out of habit, 
or out of corruption; and every day she became the more obstinately 
set upon it, draining every pleasure by wishing it to be too intense. 
She reproached L^on for her disappointed hopes, as if he had 
betrayed her; and she even longed for a catastrophe which would 
bring about their separation, since she had not the courage to make 
the decision. 

For all this, she continued to write amorous letters to him in 
pursuance of the conviction that a woman should always write to 
her lover. 

But, while writing, she envisioned another man, a phantom con¬ 
trived out of her most ardent memories, the most beautiful pas¬ 
sages in her books, her most intense desires; and in the end he 
became so real, so accessible that she quivered, marveling over it, 
without, however, being able to imagine him clearly, so indistinct 
did he become, like a god, beneath the abundance of his attributes. 
He dwelt in the blue-white coimtry where silken ladders swing from 
balconies, imder the breath of flowers, in the radiance of the moon, 

245 



She felt him near her, he was going to come and sweep her away 
entirely, in a kiss. Afterwards she would fall back flat, crushed; 
for these spasms of unreal love exhausted her more than great 
debauches. 

She now felt an incessant and universal numbness. Frequently 
she even received writs on stamped paper at which she scarcely 
glanced. She would have liked to live no longer, or to sleep con¬ 
stantly. 

On the day of mid-Lent she did not retrim to Yonville; in the 
evening she went to the masked ball. She put on velvet breeches 
and red hose, vidth a clubbed wig and a cocked hat over one ear. 
She danced wildly all night, to the frenzied sound of the trom¬ 
bones; a circle formed about her; and in the morning she found 
herself on the peristyle of the theater among five or six masque¬ 
raders, women in stevedore’s costume or sailors, some of Lion’s 
friends, who were discussing going to supper. 

The caf^s in the neighborhood were full. Down by the docks 
they found one of the most undistinguished restaurants, the 
proprietor of which opened a small room for them on the fourth 
floor. 

The men whispered in a comer, doubtless consulting about the 
expense. There was a clerk, two medical students and an errand 
boy: what society for herl As for the women, Emma quickly real¬ 
ized by the quaUty of their voices that they must almost all be of 
the lowest class. Then she was frightened, pushed back her chair 
and lowered her eyes. 

The others began to eat. She did not eat; her forehead was 
burning, her eyelids prickled and her skin was like ice. Inside her 
head she still felt the ballroom floor leaping to the rhythmic pulsa¬ 
tion of a thousand dancing feet. Then the odor of the punch com¬ 
bined with cigar smoke made her dizzy. She was fainting: they 
carried her to the window. 

Day was beginning to break, and a great splash of crimson was 
spreading over the pale sky over toward Sainte-Catherine. The livid 
river shivered in the wind; there was no one on the bridges; the 
street lamps were dying. 

Meanwhile she revived and happened to think of Berthe, who 
was sleeping back in Yonville, in the maid’s room. But a cart full 

246 



of iron rods passed, casting a deafening metallic vibration against 
the house walls. 

She slipped away abruptly, got rid of her costume, told Leon 
that he must go back, and at last was left alone at the Hotel de 
Boulogne. Everything, including herself, was insupportable to her. 
She yearned to go, escaping like a bird, to recover her youth 
somewhere, far away, in the immaculate spaces. 

She went out, she crossed the boulevard, the Place Cauchois and 
the Faubourg, to an open street which overlooked the gardens. 
She walked rapidly, the fresh air quieted her; and little by little 
the faces of the crowd, the masks, the quadrilles, the chandeliers, the 
supper, those women, all vanished like mists blown away. Then, 
returning to the Croix Rouge, she flung herself on the bed in the 
small second-story room where there were illustrations from La 
Tour de Nesle. At four o*clock that afternoon Hivert woke her. 

When she reached home Felicity showed her a gray paper behind 
the clock. She read: 

“In pursuance of the bond, in formal executory notice of a 
judgment ...” 

What judgment? The day before, indeed, someone had brought 
another paper of which she was unaware; so she was dumfounded 
at these words: 

“Order, in the name of the King, law and justice, to Madame 
Bovary ...” 

Then, skipping several lines, she read: 

“Within not more than twenty-four hours.” What? “To pay the 
total sum of eight thousand francs.” And, farther down: ‘To this 
she shall be constrained by every legal means, and notably by the 
authorized seizure of her fiimishings and effects.” 

What to do?... It was to be within twenty-four hours; tomorrow! 
Lheureux, she thought, was very likely trying to frighten her again; 
for she suddenly recognized all his machinations, the aim of his 
obliging behavior. What reassured her was the exaggeration of the 
amount. 

However, by buying, not paying, borrowing, signing notes, then 
renewing those notes which grew larger at each renewal, she had 
eventually prepared for Monsieur Lheureux a capital which he 
was impatiently awaiting for his speculations. 

247 



She presented herself at his shop with a casual air. 

“Do you know what has happened? Its a joke, I supposel” 
“No” 

“Why so?** 

He turned slowly and said to her, folding his arms: 

“Did you think, my dear lady, that I was going to be your pro¬ 
vider and banker until the end of the world, just for the love of 
God? I’ve got to get back what I’ve laid out. Let’s be justl” 

She protested the amount of the debt 

"Too badl The court recognized it There’s a judgment You were 
notified. Besides, it isn’t me, it’s Vin9art** 

“Couldn’t you , . . 

“Oh, no, nothingl” 

“But . . . still . . . let’s talk it over.** 

And she ranted; she had knovra nothing ... it was a surprise ... 
“Whose fault is that?” Lheureux said, bowing ironically. “While 
I’m slaving like a black, myself, you’re enjoying yourself.’* 

“Ah, no moraiizingl” 

“It never hurts,” he answered. 

She was humble, she pleaded with him; and she even laid her 
lovely hand, white and long, on the merchant’s knee. 

“Let me alonel Anyone would think you were trying to seduce 

&gt;9 

me. 

"You’re a scoundrell” she cried. 

“Oh, oh, how you go onl” he returned, laughing. 

“I’m going to let people know what you are. I’ll tell my hus¬ 
band ...” 

“Very well. Personally, I’ll have something to show your husband.” 
And Lheureux drew from his safe a receipt for eighteen hundred 
francs which she had given him at the time of Vingart’s cashing 
her note. 

“Do you think,” he added, “that he wont understand your theft, 
the poor dear man?” 

She sank back, more stunned than she would have been by a 
blow from a club. He walked back and forth between the window 
and the desk, repeating: 

“Oh, I’ll show him ... I’ll show him ...” 

Then he came close to her again and, in a gentle voice: 

248 



“It’s not amusing, I know; after all, nobody has died of it, and 
since it’s the only way left for you to return my money ...” 

“But where will I get any?” Emma said, wringing her hands. 
“Oh, nonsense! With friends like yours!” 

And he stared at her in a manner so knowing and so terrible 
that she shuddered through and through. 

“I promise you,” she said, “I’ll sign ...” 

“I’ve had enough of your signatures!” 

“I’ll sell ... ” 

“Come now!” he said, shrugging. “You haven’t anything left.” 
And he shouted through the 
shop: 

“Annette! Don’t forget the three remnants of number 14.” 

The servant appeared; Emma understood and asked “how much 
money it would take to put a stop to all legal action.” 

“It’s too late.” 

“But if I brought you several thousand francs, a quarter of the 
whole, a third, almost all?” 

“No, no, it’s useless.” 

He pushed her gently toward the stairs. 

“I implore you. Monsieur Lheureux, a few more days!” 

She was sobbing. 

“Oh, fine! Tears!” 

“You’re driving me to despair.” 

“That doesn’t worry me particularly,” he said, closing the door. 


Judas window that opened into the 


249 


fcxHE was stoical the next day 
when Monsieur Hareng, the sheriff, with two 
witnesses, came to her home to make the o£Bcial in¬ 
ventory for the seizure. 

They began in Bovarys office and did not write down the 
phrenological head, which was considered as an instrument of his 
profession”; but they counted the plates in the kitchen, the pots, 
the chairs, the candlesticks and, in her room, all the trinkets in the 
whatnot. They examined her dresses, the linens, the dressing-room; 
and her existence, even to its most intimate recesses, was spread 
out like a corpse for autopsy, before the eyes of these three men. 

Monsieur Hareng, buttoned into a meager black suit, wearing a 
white cravat and badly stretched trouser-straps, kept repeating 
from time to time: 

‘‘With your permission, Madame? With your permission?” 

Frequently he gave vent to exclamations: 

“Charming! . . . Very prettyl” 

Then he would return to writing, dipping his pen into the horn 
inkwell he held in his left hand. 

When they had finished with the rooms they went up to the 

storeroom. 

There she kept a desk in which Rodolphe s letters were locked. 
It had to be opened. 

“Ah, a correspondence!” Monsieur Hareng said with a discreet 
smile. “But allow mel I must be assured that the box contains 
nothing else.” 

And he tipped the papers slightly, as if to make die gold coins 
fall out from among them. Then indignation seized her, seeing that 
coarse hand with fingers soft and red as slugs, resting upon those 
pages over which her heart bad beaten. 

250 



At last they were gone! F^licite returned. She had sent her out 
to stand guard and intercept Bovary; and they quickly installed 
the bailiflTs deputy in the attic, where he swore to stay. 

During the evening, Charles seemed anxious to her. Emma 
watched him with a glance full of anguish, thinking that she saw 
accusations in the wrinkles of his face. Then when her eyes fell 
upon the hearth decorated with Chinese screens, on the wide cur¬ 
tains, on the armchairs, on all those things, in fact, which had 
alleviated the bitterness of her life, remorse took hold of her, or 
rather a vast regret which passion, far from assuaging it, served 
to augment. Charles placidly stirred the fire, his feet on the and¬ 
irons. 

There was one moment when the bailiff*s man, doubtless be¬ 
coming bored in his hiding place, made a little noise. 

“Someone's walking upstairs?** Charles said. 

"No,** she said. "It*s a shutter left open, the wind is moving it.” 

The following day, a Sunday, she left for Rouen in order to 
visit all the bankers whose names she knew. They were in the 
country or traveling. She did not become discouraged, and of those 
whom she was able to see she asked money, protesting that she 
must have it, that she would pay it back. Some of them laughed 
in her face; all refused. 

At two o'clock she hurried to Lion's room, knocked at his door. 
It was not opened. At length he appeared. 

“What brings you here?** 

“It's disturbing youl” 

“No ... but ... ** 

And he confessed that the landlady did not like her lodgers 
to entertain "women.” 

“I have to talk to you,” she said. 

At this, he reached for his key. She stopped him. 

“Oh, no. The other place. Our room.” 

And they went to their room in the Hotel de Boulogne. 

Upon arriving, she drank a large glass of water. She was ex¬ 
tremely pale. She said; 

“L4on, you’re going to do me a favor.” 

And, shaking him by his two hands which she was squeezing 
tightly, she added: 

251 



“Listen to me, I need eight thousand francs ” 

“You must be madf" 

“Not yet.” 

And at once, relating the story of the seizure, she explained her 
predicament to him; for Charles was ignorant of everything: her 
motlier-in-law detested her, old Rouault could do nothing; but he, 
Leon, was going to set out to find this indispensable sum . . . 

“How do you expect. . . ?” 

“How cowardly youre actingl” she cried. 

Then he said stupidly: 

“You’re exaggerating the trouble. Perhaps with a thousand 6cus 

or so that fellow of yours will calm down.” 

A further reason for trying to do something; it was not possible 
that he should not find three thousand francs. Besides, L6on could 
pledge himself in her place. 

“Go, try, you must! Oh, try, try! I’ll love you very much!” 

He went out, returned at the end of an hour and said with a 
solemn face: “I’ve been to three people ... uselessly! 

Then they remained sitting face to face at the two sides of the 
hearth, motionless, not speaking. Emma shrugged her shoulders, 
tapping her foot. He heard her mutter: 

“If I were in your place. I’d certainly find itl” 

“Where, then?” 

“At your office!” 

And she stared at him. 

An infernal boldness was radiated from her blazing eyeballs, 
and the eyelids drew together in a manner lascivious and inciting, 
so that the yoimg man felt himself weaken under the mute in¬ 
sistence of this woman who was urging him to crime. Then he took 
fright and, to avoid any elucidation, he struck his forehead, ex¬ 
claiming: 

“Morel ought to return tonight! He won’t refuse me, I hope 
(this was one of his friends, the son of a very rich wholesale 
merchant), “and I’ll bring it to you tomorrow ” he added. 

Emma did not appear to receive this hope with as much joy as 
he had imagined. Did she suspect the lie? He went on, flushing: 

“However, if you haven't seen me by three o’clock, don’t expect 
me any longer, my darling. I must go, now. Good-by!” 

252 



He pressed her hand, but he felt it utterly inert. Emma had no 
longer strength for any emotion. 

Four o^clock struck; and she rose to start back to Yonville, 
obedient as an automaton to the impulse of habit. 

Everything, both within herself and without, was forsaking her. 
She felt lost, revolving at random in illimitable depths; and it was 
almost with joy that she saw, upon reaching the Croix Rouge^ the 
good Homais watching a great box of pharmaceutical supplies 
being loaded on the Hirondelle. 

“Delighted to see youl” he said, offering Emma his hand to help 
her into the Hirondelle. 

When the blind man appeared as usual at the foot of the hill, 
he exclaimed: 

“I can*t understand the authorities* tolerating such sinful in¬ 
dustries! These unfortunates ought to be locked up, forced to take 
up some trade. Upon my honor, Progress moves at a snail’s pace! 
We’re floundering in the utmost barbarism.” 

And, familiar as he was with the poor devil, he feigned to be 
seeing him for the flrst time, then asked him in a paternal tone: 

“Have you had that horrible aflhction long, my friend? Instead of 
getting drunk in taverns, you’d do better to follow a diet.” 

The blind man went on with his song; he seemed, in any case, 
all but imbecile. At length Homais opened his purse. 

“Look here, here’s a sou, give me back two farthings: and don’t 
forget my advice, you’ll find yourself the better for it.” 

Hivert took the liberty of voicing some doubt of its eflBcacity. 
But the apothecary guaranteed that he would cure him himself 
with an antiphlogistic ointment he had compounded, and he gave 
his address: 

“Monsieur Homais, near the market, well enough known.” 

Emma, overcome with disgust, flimg him a five-franc piece over 
her shoulder. It was her whole fortune. It seemed splendid to her 
to cast it away in this maimer. 

The sight of familiar objects moving past before her eyes 
gradually distracted Emma from her present distress. An intolerable 
fatigue overwhelmed her, and she reached home stupefied, dis¬ 
couraged, almost asleep. 

“Whatever is to come, let it cornel” she thought. 

253 



And yet, who knew? Why, between one moment and the next, 
should some extraordinary event not occur? Lheureux might even 

She was awakened at nine o^clock in the morning by a sound of 
voices in the square. There was a crowd gathered about the market 
building to read a great notice pasted to one of the posts, and she 
saw Justin climbing upon a stone block and tearing at the notice. 
But just then the game warden laid his hand upon the boy s collar. 
Monsieur Homais emerged from the pharmacy, and M^re Le- 
fran^ois, in the center of the crowd, appeared to be making a 


harangue. . err» t. r* 

"Madame, Madamel'' F^licite cried, coming in. Its a shame. 

And the poor girl, greatly upset, handed her a piece of yellow 

paper she had just tom off the door. Kmma read at a glance that 

all her possessions were up for sale. 

At this, they stared at one another in silence. Servant and mistress 

had no secrets from one another. Presently Felicity sighed: 

“If I were you, Madame, Vd go to Monsieur Guillaumin.” 


“You think so?” 


And this question meant: 

“You who know the household through the servant, has the 


master ever spoken of me?” 

“Yes, go to him, you 11 be doing the right thing.” 

She dressed, put on her black dress and her jet-beaded hood; 
and, in order not to be seen (there were always many people in 
tlie square), she made her way around the village, by the path at 


the water s edge. t. v 

She reached the lawyer s gate completely out of breath; the sky 

was overcast and a few flakes of snow were falling. 

At the sound of the bell, Theodore, in a red waistcoat, appeared 

on the doorstep; he came to open the gate for her almost familiarly, 

as if for an acquaintance, and ushered her into the dining room. 

A wide porcelain stove was muttering below a cactus which 

filled the niche and, in black wooden frames against the imitation- 

oak wallpaper, hung Steubens Esmerelda and Schopms Potiphar. 

The laid table, two silver chafing dishes, the crystal doorknobs, the 

floor and the furniture all gleamed with a meticulous, English 




cleanliness; the windows were decorated, in each comer, with 
colored glasses. 

“Here is a dining room such as I should have,” Emma thought. 
The lawyer came in, clutching his dressing-gown ornamented 
with palms against his body wdth his left arm, while with the other 
hand he took off and quickly replaced his brown velvet cap, pre¬ 
tentiously cocked to the right side, from which fell the ends of 
three blond locks of hair that, growing out of the occipital region, 
surroimded his bald pate. 

After offering her a seat, he sat dowm to breakfast, apologizing 
profusely for the discourtesy, 

“Monsieur,” she said, “I wanted to ask you ...” 

“What, Madame? I am hstening.” 

She began to explain her predicament. 

Monsieur Guillaumin was aware of it, being secretly associated 
with the dry-goods merchant, from whom he always obtained the 
capital for the mortgage loans he was requested to make. 

He knew, therefore—and better than she—the long tale of all 
those notes, small at first, bearing various names as endorsements, 
spaced at long-term intervals and continually renewed until the 
day when, assembling all the nonpayment protests, the merchant 
had instructed his friend Vin^art to institute in his own name what¬ 
ever proceedings were necessary, not wishing to earn the reputation 
of a shark among his fellow citizens. 

She punctuated her story with recriminations against Lheureux, 
recriminations to which the notary responded from time to time 
with a noncommittal word. Eating his chop and drmking his tea, 
he kept ducking his chin into his sky-blue cravat, pierced by two 
diamond pins attached with a fine gold chain, and smiling a singular 
smile in a sugaay and ambiguous manner. But, noticing that her 
feet were damp: 

“Come closer to the stove . . . higher up, against the porcelain. 
She was afraid of dirtying it. The notary went on in a gallant . 
tone: 

‘‘Beautiful things don't hann anything.” 

Then she made an attempt to appeal to his emotions and, be¬ 
coming emotional herself, she reached the point of telling him 
about the stringencies of her household, her penny-pinchings, her 

255 



needs. He understood that: an elegant womanl And, wthout in¬ 
terrupting his eating, he turned toward her completely, so that 
he was brushing his knee against her shoe, the sole of which was 

curling as it steamed upon the stove. 

But when she asked him for a thousand ecus, he pursed his lips, 
then observed that he was extremely sorry not to have had the 
management of her fortune earlier, for he had a hundred very con¬ 
venient methods, even for a lady, of turning money to account. 

It would almost certainly have been possible to invest in excellent 
speculations, eitlier in the Grumesnil peat-bogs or in Le Havre 
real estate; and he left her consumed with rage at the thought of 
tlie fantastic sums she would undoubtedly have made. 

“How is it,” he went on, “that you didn*t come to me?” 

“I don’t quite know,” she said. 

“Why, eh? Did I scare you so much? But I’m the one to be 
pitied. We scarcely know one another! Just the same, I’m very 
devoted to you: you wont doubt that any more, I hope?* 

He stretched out his hand, took hers, pressed a Voracious kiss 
upon it, then kept it upon his knee; and he played dtelicately with 
her fingers while showering her with comforting words. 

His flat voice murmured like a flowing stream; a spark glittered 
in his pupil through the reflection of his glasses, and his hands 
crept into Emma’s sleeve to stroke her arm. She felt across her 
cheek the exhalations of uneven breathing. This man was embar¬ 
rassing her horribly. 

She sprang to her feet and said: “Monsieur, I’m waiting! 

“For what?” the notary said, suddenly becoming extremely pale. 

“That money.” 

“But ...” Then yielding to the irruption of a too violent desire: 
“Very well, yes! ...” 

He was dragging himself toward her on his knees, unmindful of 

his dressing-gown. 

“Please, stay. I love you!” 

He clutched her around the waist. 

A tide of crimson surged up into Madame Bovary’s face. She 
drew back with a terrible expression, crying: 

“You’re taking impudent advantage of my trouble, Monsieur! 

I am to be pitied, not bought.” 


250 



And she swept out. 

The lawyer was left utterly dumfounded, his eyes fixed upon his 
handsome tapestry slippers. They had been a love-gift. The sight 
of them at length consoled him. In addition, he reflected that such 

an affair would have involved him too deeply. 

“What a villain, what a vile creaturel . . . What beastliness! she 
kept repeating to herself as she sped on nervous feet under the 
aspens along the road. The disappointment of failure accentuated 
the indignation of her outraged virtue: it seemed to her that 
Providence was concentrating upon hoimding her and, at this 
thought, vanity coming to bolster up her ego, never had she had so 
much esteem for herself, so much contempt for others. She was 
transported by a spirit of belligerence. She would have liked to 
strike out at men, spit in their faces, beat them all to pulp; and she 
continued to stride rapidly ahead, pale, quivering, enraged, search¬ 
ing the empty horizon with tear-filled eyes and, after a fashion, 

reveling in the hatred that was strangling her. 

When she came within sight of her house, a lethargy overcame 
her. She could go no farther; yet she must; besides, where was 

there to go? 

Felicit6 was waiting for her at the door. Well?* 

“No,** Emma said. 

And for a quarter of an hour they discussed together the various 
people in Yonville who might perhaps be willing to help her. But 
each time Felicit6 named someone, Emma replied: 

“Is it likely! They wouldn*tl” 

“And Monsieur about to come homel 
“I know , . . Leave me alone.** 

She had tried everything. Now there was nothing further to 
do; and so when Charles came in she was going to say to him: 

“Go back. That carpet you’re walking on isn’t ours any more. 
In your house you do not own one piece of fumitme, one pin, 
one straw, and it is I who have ruined you, poor man! 

Then a great sob would come, then he would weep copiously 
and in the end, the first shock over, he would forgive. 

“Yes,” she murmured, setting her teeth, “he will forgive me, he 
who could never have enough millions to offer me to make me pardon 
him for having known me . . . neverl Neverl 

257 



This idea of Bovary's superiority over her infuriated her. Then, 
too, whether she confessed or did not confess, sooner or later, 
tomorrow, he would know about the disaster just the same; so 
she must look forward to that horrible scene and endure the burden 
of his magnanimity. The desire came to her to go back to Lheureux: 
what was the use? To write to her father: it was too late; and 
perhaps now she was regretting not having yielded to the other, 
when she heard a horse’s hooves in the alley. It was he, he was 
opening the gate, he was whiter than the plaster wall. Plunging 
down the stairs, she fled out into the square; and the mayor s wife, 
who was chatting with Lestiboudois in front of the church, saw 
her go into the tax-collector s house. 

She hurried over to tell Madame Caron. These two ladies climbed 
up into the attic and, concealed by some linens stretched out upon 
poles, placed themselves conveniently for seeing the whole interior 
of Binet’s house. 

He was alone in his attic, absorbed in copying in wood one of 
those indescribable ivories composed of crescents, of spheres fitted 
into one another, the whole thing straight as an obelisk and serving 
no purpose whatever; and he was cutting the last piece, he was 
within reach of the goal! In the half-light of his workshop the 
golden dust streamed from his chisel like a trail of sparks beneath 
the shoes of a galloping horse: the two wheels spun, rumbled; 
Binet smiled, his chin tucked down, his nostrils distended, and 
seemed lost in one of those moments of utter happiness which 
doubtless attend only unimportant endeavors that divert the in¬ 
telligence with easy diflBculties and gratify it by a realization beyond 
which there is nothing further to aspire to. 

*'Ah, there she is!” Madame Tuvache said. 

But it was impossible, because of the lathe, to hear what she was 
saying. 

At last the ladies thought that they caught the word francs, .and 
Madame Tuvache whispered: 

“She’s pleading with him, to get a delay for her payments.” 

‘It looks that way,” the other returned. 

They saw her walking back and forth, examining the napkin 
rings, the candlesticks, the banister knobs hung against the walls, 
while Binet stroked his beard with satisfaction. 

258 



“Could she have come to order something from him?” Madame 
Tuvache said. 

“But he doesn t sell anythingl” her companion objected. 

The tax-collector seemed to be listening, squinting his eyes as if 
he did not imderstand. She continued in a gentle pleading manner. 
She moved closer; his breast rose and fell rapidly; they were no 
longer talking. 

“Is she making advances to him?” Madame Tuvache said. 

Binet was red to his ears. She took his hands. 

“Oh, this is too much!” 

And tmdoubtedly she was suggesting something abominable to 
him; for the tax-collector—he was courageous, after all, he had 
fought at Bautzen and at Lutzen, taken part in the French cam¬ 
paign and even been “put up for the cross —suddenly, as if at 
sight of a serpent, sprang back to quite a little distance, exclaiming. 

“What are you thinking of, Madame? ...” 

“Women like that ought to be whipped!” Madame Tuvache said. 

“Where has she got to?** Madame Caron said. 

For she had disappeared during these words; then, catching 
sight of her running along the Main Street and turning to the right 
as if to reach the cemetery, they lost themselves in conjecture. 


“M^re Rollet,” she said, upon arriving at the nurse s house, ‘Tm 
stifling! Unlace me.” 

She fell across the bed; she was sobbing. M^re Rollet covered 
her with a petticoat and remained standing beside her. Then, as 
she did not answer, the good woman moved away, took up her 

spinning wheel and began to spin flax. 

“Oh, stop iti” Emma muttered, thinking that she heard Binet s 

lathe. 

“What is the matter with herF' the nurse wondered. “Why has 


she come here?” 

She had hurried here, driven by a sort of horror which impeUed 

her away from her house. j u* f 

Lying on her back, motionless and staring, she discerned obj^ts 

only vaguely, althou^ she applied her attention to them with imot 

persistence. She stared at the scaly spots on the wall, at two its 

of firewood smoking end to end, at an elongated spider which was 

259 



crawling in a crevice of the beam above her head. At last she 
collected her wits. She remembered . . . One day, with L6on . , . 
Oh, how far away that wasl . . . The sun was shining on the river 
and the clematis breathed out its fragrance . . . Then, swept along 
by her memories as by a seething torrent, she presently came upon 
a recollection of the previous day. 

‘‘What time is it?*" she asked. 

Mere RoUet went out, raised the fingers of her right hand in 
the direction where the sky was brightest and returned vrithout 
haste, saying: 

“Almost three.” 

“Ah, thank you, thank youl” 

For he was going to come. That was certainl He would have 
found the money. But perhaps he would go to the house, not 
suspecting that she was here; and she ordered the nurse to hurry 
there and bring him back. 

“Make hastel” 

“But my dear lady, Tm going, Tm goingl” 

Now she was astonished that she bad not thought of him im¬ 
mediately; yesterday he had given his word, he would not break 
it; and already she saw herself at Lheureux' shop, spreading out 
her three banimotes on his desk. Then she must invent a story for 
explaining matters to Bovary. What should it be? 

Meanwhile, the nurse was taking a long time about returning. 
But as there was no clock in the cottage, Emma feared that she 
might be exaggerating the length of the time. She began to walk 
about the garden, step by step; she strolled the length of the hedge, 
in the path, and turned back eagerly, hoping that the good woman 
might have come back by another way. At last, tired of waiting, 
beset by suspicions which she kept rejecting, no longer knowing 
whether she had been there for a century or for a minute, she sat 
down in a comer, closed her eyes and thrust her fingers into her 
ears. The gate creaked: she leaped up; before she could speak, 
M^re Rollet had said: 

“There’s nobody at your house!” 

“What?” 

“Oh, nobody at alll And Monsieur is crying. He*s calling for you. 
The/re looking for you.” 


260 



Emma made no answer. She was panting, rolling her eyes about 
her, while the peasant woman, terrified by her expression, in¬ 
stinctively drew back, believing her to be mad. All at once she 
struck her forehead, cried out, for the memory of Rodolphe, like 
a great lightning flash in a murky night, had darted across her 
mind. He was so good, so tactful, so generous! And besides, if he 
hesitated to do her this favor, she would certainly be able to force 
him to do it by recalling to him, in one single glance, their lost 
love. She set off, therefore, toward La Huchette, without realizing 
that she was hastening to offer herself to the one who had once so 
deeply offended her, without the least misgiving of this prostitu¬ 
tion. 


4 


261 



she walked she wondered: 

"What am I going to say? Where shall I be¬ 
gin?” And the farther she advanced, the more she 
recognized the bushes, the trees, the rushes on the hillside, the 
chateau beyond. She found herself caught up once more in the 
sensations of her first love, and her poor repressed heart expanded 
with them, hungrily. A mild wind blew in her face; the snow, 
melting, was falling drop by drop from the buds onto the grass. 

She entered, as before, by the small gate of the park, then reached 
the main courtyard, bordered by a double row of thick-leaved 
lindens. They swayed their long branches, whispering. The hounds 
in the kennel all barked, and the tumult of their voices reverberated 
without anyone’s appearing. 

She went up the long straight staircase with its wooden balusters 
that led to the passage floored with dusty stone from which opened 
several bedrooms in a row, as in monasteries or inns. His was at 
the extreme far end, at the left. When she came to lay her fingers 
upon the knob her strength abruptly forsook her. She was afraid 
that he might not be there, she almost hoped that he would not, and 
yet here was her only hope, her last chance of rescue. She stood 
for a minute collecting herself and, strengthening her courage with 
the recognition of immediate necessity, she went in. 

He was sitting by the fire, his feet on the mantel, smoking a pipe. 

"Why, it’s you!” he said, bluntly. 

"Yes, it’s I . . . Rodolphe, I’d like to ask your advice.” 

And, despite all her efltorts, it was impossible for her to open 
her lips. 

‘“You haven’t changed, you’re still charming.” 

“Oh,” she returned bitterly, “they’re sorry charms, my dear, since 
you scorned them.” 


262 



He embarked, then, upon an explanation of his behavior, excusing 
himself in imprecise terms, being unable to invent anything better. 

She gave herself up to his words, even more to his voice and 
the sight of him; so that she gave the appearance of believing—or 
perhaps did believe—in the pretext for their having broken ofiF; it was 
a secret upon which depended the honor and even the life of a 
third person. 

“No matter” she said, gazing at him sorrowfully. “I suffered a 
great deal.” 

He answered in a philosophical tone: 

“Life is like that.” 

“Has it at least been good to you since our parting?” Emma 
asked. 

“Oh, neither good . . . nor bad.” 

“Perhaps it would have been better never to have parted. 

“Yes .. . perhaps.” 

“You think so?” she said, moving closer. 

And she sighed: 

“Oh Rodolphe, if you knewl I loved you sol” 

It was then that she took his hand, and they stood for a time 
with their fingers entwined—like the first day, at the Exposition! 
Out of an impulse of pride, he struggled against the stirring of 
his emotions. But, collapsing upon his breast, she said: 

“How did you expect me to live without you? One can t break 
the habit of happiness! I was desperate. I thought I would die! 
m tell you all about it, you will see. And you, you ran away 
from me ...” 

For during the past three years he had carefully avoided her, 
out of that natural cowardice which characterizes the strong sex; 
and Emma continued with graceful gestures of the head, more 
artful than an amorous cat: 

“You love other women, admit it. Oh, I understand them, you 
see, I excuse them; you must have seduced them the way you 
seduced me. You’re a man! You have everythmg it takes to make 
women love you. But we’ll begin all over, wont we? Well love 
each other. See, I’m laughing. I’m happy! . . . Say something! 

And she was exquisite to see, with tears trembling in her eyes 
like raindrops in a blue chalice. 

263 



He drew her to his knees, and with the back of his hand he 
stroked the sleek bands of her hair in which a last ray of sunlight 
reflected in the clear twUight like a golden arrow. She bent her 
head to him; at last he kissed her eyeUds, gently, just touching 

them with his lips. 

“Why, you ve been cryingl” he said. “Why?” 

She burst out sobbing. Rodolphe thought that it was the violent 
release of her love; as she remained silent, he took this silence for 

a last vestige of modesty, and he cried: 

“Oh, forgive me! You are the only one for me. IVe been stupid 

and wicked! I love you. I’ll always love you. What is the matter? 

Tell me!” He dropped to his knees. 

Wery well! ... I am ruined, Rodolphe. Youre going to lend me 

three thousand francs.” 

“Why . . . but ...” he said, slowly rising to his feet, while his 

features assumed a grave expression. 

“You know,” she went on rapidly, “that my husband invested his 

whole fortune with a lawyer; he has run away. We’ve borrowed; 
the paUents aren’t paying their bills. Besides, the liquidation isn’t 
finished; we’ll have plenty later on. But today, for want of three 
thousand francs, we’re going to be sold up; right now, to very 
instant; and counting on your friendship, I came to you.” 

“Ah,” thought Rodolphe who had suddenly become very white, 

“that’s why she camel” 

Presently he said very quietly: 

“I don’t have it, dear lady.” 

He was not lying. Had he had it, he would doubtless have given 
it, although it is normally distasteful to make such fine gestures: 
a financial demand being the coldest and most estranging of all 

the ill winds that beset love. 

At first she stood for a few moments staring at him. 

“You haven’t got it!” 

She repeated several times: 

‘Tou haven’t got it! ... I should have spared myself this final 
shame. You’ve never loved me. You’re no better than the others!” 
She was betraying herself, she was destroying herself. 

Rodolphe interrupted her, declaring that he was “feeling the 

pinch” himself. 


264 




Charles, awake, thought always of Madame Bovary. 




SRI pratap college library 

SRINAGAR (Kashmir) 


C/a$s No, 
Acc, No, 


date loaned 

- Book No. 


charJewiMbf lewed aUh^rato oMo“p *1’ t" ' ‘'‘'® 

the boo k fs kept over - time, ” Palse for each day 


“Ah, I pity youl” Emma said. “Yes, a great deal.” 

And, fixing her eyes upon an embossed rifle that glittered in the 
trophy case: 

“But when one is poor, one doesn^t put money into gunstocks. 
One doesn't buy a clock inlaid with mother-of-pearl,” she added, 
pointing to the buhl clock, “nor silver handles for one's whips—” 
she touched them— “nor watch charms. Oh, he wants for nothing! 
Even a liquor cabinet in his bedroom; for you love yourself, you 
live nicely, you have a chateau, farms, woods, you ride to hounds, 
you take trips to Paris . . . Yes, when it wouldn't take more than 
this,” she cried, snatching his cuff links from the mantelpiece, “than 
the least of these trifles! One could raise money on them . . . Oh, 
I don't want them! Keep them.” 

And she flung the two cuff links away, their gold chains snapping 
as they struck the wall. 

“But as for me, I would have given you everything, I would have 
sold everything, I would have worked with my hands, I would have 
gone out begging in the streets, for a smile, for a look, for the sake 
of hearing you say ‘Thank you!' And there you sit placidly in your 
easy-chair, as if you hadn't already made me suffer enough. If it 
hadn't been for you, I could have lived happily, do you know that? 
What made you do it? Was it a bet? Still, you used to love me, you 
said so . . , And again just now . . . Oh, it would have been better 
to send me away. My hands are warm with your kisses, and there, 
on the carpet, is the spot where you swore an eternity of love, at 
my knees. You made me believe in it: for two years you kept me in 
the most magnificent, the most wonderful dream , . . Isn’t that so? 
Our plans to go away, you remember? Oh, your letter, your letter! 
It broke my heart. And then, when I return to him , to this man who 
is rich, happy, free, to beg for help which anyone in the world 
would give, pleading and offering him all my love again, he casts 
me aside, because it would cost him three thousand francs!” 

“I haven’t got it,” Rodolphe returned with that perfect calm 
which is held like a shield over repressed anger. 

She left. The walls were quaking, the ceiling was crumbling in; 
and she went back down the long path, stumbling over heaps of 
dead leaves whirled up by the wind. At last she reached the hollow 
in front of the gate; she broke her fingernails on the fastening, so 

265 



great was her haste to open it. Then, a hundred yards farther on, 
breathless, about to fall, she stopped; and, turning back, she saw 
once more the impassive mansion, with its park, its gardens, its 
three courtyards, and all the windows of its front face. 

She remained plunged in a stupor, having no further conscious¬ 
ness of herself beyond the pulsing of her arteries which she seemed 
to hear emanating like muffled music that filled the countryside. 
The soil beneath her feet was more yielding than a wave, and the 
plowed lands looked to her like vast brown billows rolling in. All 
that was in her mind, memories, thoughts, came flying out at once, 
in a single instant, like the thousand fragments of a firework. She 
saw her father, Lheiureux* offlce, their bedroom at home, another 
landscape. Madness was taking hold of her, she was frightened and 
presently succeeded in collecting herself, although in a confused 
fashion; for she did not remember the cause of her horrible condi¬ 
tion, the question of money. She suffered only for her love, and felt 
her spirit forsake her through the memory of it as the wounded, 
dying, feel life flow out through the bleeding wound. 

Night was f allin g, crows were flying. 

It suddenly seemed to her that flame-colored globules were burst¬ 
ing in the air like exploding bullets falling to earth, and whirling, 
whirling down to melt into the snow among the branches of the 
trees. In the center of each of them, Rodolphe's face appeared. They 
multiplied, they came closer, entered into her; everything vanished. 
She recognized the lights of houses, glowing afar in the mist. 

Now her predicament, like a chasm, opened out before her. She 
was panting as if her lungs were about to burst. Then, in a frenzy 
of heroism that rendered her almost joyful, she ran down the hill¬ 
side, crossed the cattle-bridge, the path, the lane, the market-place, 
and reached the front of the pharmacist's shop. 

There was no one there. She was about to go in, but someone 
might come at the sotmd of the bell; and, slipping through the gate, 
holding her breath, feeling along the walls, she made her way to 
the door of the kitchen where a candle, standing on the stove, was 
burning. Justin, in shirt sleeves, was carrying out a dish. 

“Ah, they're having dinner. Wait a little.” 

He retinned. She tapped on the window. He came out. 

“The key! The one for upstairs, where the 

266 


• • • 



‘Whatr 

And he stared at her, utterly aghast at the pallor of her face, 
which stood out white against the black background of the night. 
She seemed extraordinarily beautiful to him, and awe-inspiring as 
a spirit; without understanding what she wanted, he had a pre¬ 
sentiment of something terrible. 

But she went on swiftly, in a low voice, in a soft, dissolving voice: 

“I want it. Give it to me!” 

As the partition was thin, one could hear the clatter of forks 
against plates in the dinin g room. 

She pretended that she wanted to kill the rats that prevented her 
from sleeping. 

“I*d have to let Monsieur know.” 

“No. Stay here.” 

Then, with an air of indiEerence: 

“It*s not worth the trouble. Ill tell him about it later. Come, light 
the way for me.” 

She went into the passage from which opened the laboratory 
door. Against the wall hung a key labeled Capharnaum. 

“Justinl” the apothecary called, becoming impatient. 

“Let s go up.” 

And he followed her. 

The key turned in the lock, and she went straight to the thir d 
shelf, so accurately did her memory guide her, snatched up the blue 
jar, pulled out the stopper, thrust her hand in and, bringing it out 
full of a white powder, she instantly put it to her mouth. 

“Stop!” he screamed, flin ging himself upon her, 

“Be quiet! Someone might come .. 

He was desperate, he tried to call out. 

“Don't say anything about it. Everything will be blamed on your 
master,” 

Then she turned away, suddenly at peace, and almost in the 
serenity of a duty accomplished. 

When Charles, overwhelmed by the news of the seizure, had re¬ 
turned home, Emma had just gone out. He cried out, wept, lost 
consciousness, but she did not come back. Where could she be? He 
sent F6hcit6 to Homais' house, to Monsieur Tuvache's, to Lheu- 
reux’, to the Lion dOr, everywhere; and, in moments of respite from 

267 



his anguish, he saw his reputation destroyed, their fortune lost, 
Berthe’s future ruined! By what cause? . . . Not a word! He waited 
until six o’clock that evening. At last, no longer able to endure it, 
and imagining that she must have gone to Rouen, he went out on 
the highroad, walked more than a mile, met no one, waited again and 
then walked home. 

She had returned. 

“What has happened? . . . Why? . . . Explain to me . . 

She sat down at her desk and wrote a letter which she sealed 
deliberately, adding the date and the hour. Then she said in a 
solemn tone: 

“You’re to read that tomorrow; until then, please, do not ask me 
a single question. No, not oneP 

“But. . 

“Oh, let me alone!” 

And she stretched out full length on her bed. 

An acrid flavor which she tasted in her mouth aroused her. She 
caught a glimpse of Charles and closed her eyes again. 

She concentrated intently upon herself, to discover if she were 
not in pain. But no, nothing yet! She heard the ticking of the clock, 
the crackle of the fire, and Charles’ breathing, as he stood beside 
the bed. 

“Ah, death is a small thing!” she thought. “I am going to go to 
sleep, and it will all be over.” 

She drank a mouthful of water and turned toward the wall. 

That vile taste of ink persisted. 

“I’m thirsty . . . Oh, I’m so thirsty!” she sighed. 

‘What is wrong with you?” Charles asked, holding a glass out to 
her. 

“Nothing . . . Open the vvdndow. I’m smothering.” 

And she was overcome by a spasm of nausea so sudden that she 
had barely time to snatch her handkerchief from under the pillow. 

“Take it away!” she said sharply. “Throw it out.” 

He questioned her; she did not answer. She lay motionless, for 
fear that the least movement might make her vomit. Meanwhile she 
felt an icy chill creeping up from her feet to her heart. 

“Ah, this is the beginning,” she murmured. 

‘What did you say?” 


268 



She rolled her head in a small gesture full of anguish, opening 
her jaws again and again as if something very heavy lay upon her 
tongue. At eight o’clock the vomiting recommenced. 

Charles noticed that in the bottom of the basin there was a sort 
of white granular substance clinging to the porcelain sides. 

“That’s odd! That’s queer,” he kept repeating. 

But she said in a loud voice: 

“No, you’re mistaken.” 

Delicately, then, and almost as a caress, he passed his hand over 
her abdomen. She gave a shrill scream. He drew back, terrified. 

Then she began to moan, feebly at first. A prolonged shudder 
shook her shoulders, and she became paler than the sheet into 
which her clenched fingers dug. Her uneven pulse was now all but 
imperceptible. 

Drops of perspiration stood on her bluish face, which looked as 
if it had been congealed in the effluvium of some metallic vapor. 
Her teeth rattled, her distended eyes wandered vaguely about her, 
and to all questions she responded only with a shake of the head; 
she even smiled two or three times. Gradually her moaning became 
louder. A hollow scream was forced from her; she insisted that she 
was feeling better and that she would get up very soon. But she 
was seized with convulsions; she cried out: 

“Oh, my God, this is agonyl” 

He fell to his knees beside her bed. 

“Tell me, what have you eaten? For the love of heaven, speak!” 
And he gazed at her with eyes in which there was a tenderness 
such as she had never seen. 

“Well; then, there . . . there! . . .” she said in a faint voice. 

He sprang to the secretary, forced the lock and read aloud: “No 
one is to be blamed ...” He stopped, brushed his hand across his 
eyes and read again. 

“What! Help! Someone come!” 

And he was able only to repeat the word: “Poisoned; poisoned!” 
F61icit6 ran to Homais, who shouted it out in the square; Madame 
Lefrangois heard it at ihe Lion dOr; some folk rose from their beds 
to tell their neighbors, and all night long the village was awake. 

Distraught, babbling, barely able to stand, Gharles was circling 
about the bedroom. He knocked against furniture, tore at his hair, 

269 



and never had the pharmacist believed that so appalling a spectacle 
could exist. 

He returned to his shop to write to Monsieur Canivet and to 
Doctor Larivi^re. He lost his head; he made more than fifteen false 
starts. Hippolyte set off for Neufch4tel, and Justin prodded Bovary*s 
horse so violently with his heels that he left it in the Bois-Guillaume 
hills, foundered and three-quarters dead. 

• Charles tried to consult his medical dictionary; he could not see 
it, the lines danced before his eyes. 

“Calm downl” the apothecary said. “It*s just a matter of adminis¬ 
tering a powerful antidote. What poison is it?” 

Charles showed the letter. It was arsenic. 

“Well, then,** Homais said, “we*ll have to make an analysis of it” 

For he knew that, in all cases of poisoning, an analysis should be 
made; and Bovary, who did not imderstand, replied: 

“Oh, make it, make iti Save her . . .” 

Then, returning to her side, he sank down upon the carpel and 
remained there, sobbing, his head pressed against the edge of her 
bed. 

“Don't cry,” she said to him. “Soon I shan’t be tormenting you 
any more.” 

‘Why? What made you do it?” 

“I had to, my dear,” she answered. 

‘Weren’t you happy? Is it my fault? But I did everything I could.” 

“Yes . . . that’s true . . . you are good.” 

And she stroked his hair with her hand, slowly. The sweetness of 
this sensation added unbearably to his burden of grief; he felt his 
whole being crumble within him with despair at the thought that 
he must lose her just when she was evidencing more love for him 
than ever before; and he could think of no thin g; he did not know, 
he did not dare, the urgency of immediate decision completing his 
disorder. 

She was done, she thought, with all the treacheries, the vilenesses, 
the desires that had tormented her. She hated no one, now; a twi¬ 
light of confusion was settling down over her mind, and of all 
earthly noises Emma no longer heard any but the intermittent 
lamentation of that poor heart, soft and indistinct, like the last dying 
echo of a symphony. 

270 



“Bring the little girl to me ” she said, pushing herself up on one 
elbow. 

“You re not sick any more, are you?** Charles asked. 

“No, nor 

The child came, grave and still half asleep in the maids arms, 
her bare feet showing beneath her long white nightdress. She stared 
with astonishment about the room in all its disorder, blinking her 
eyes, dazzled by the candles that were burning on every piece of 
furniture. They must have reminded her of New Year*s or mid- 
Lenten mornings when, wakened thus by candlelight, she came 
early to her mother*s bed to receive her gifts, for she began to ask: 
“Where is it. Mother?** 

And, as no one spoke: 

“But I don*t see my little slipper!** 

F^licite bent over the bed with her, while she still kept looking 
toward the hearth. 

“Did nurse take it?** she asked. 

And at this name which carried her back to the memory of her 
adulteries and her disastrous afEairs, Madame Bovary turned her head 
away as if in disgust at another stronger poison that rose again to 
her lips. Berthe, meanwhile, remained perched on the bed. 

“Oh, how big your eyes are. Mother! How pale you are, how 
you're sweating!** 

Her mother stared at her. 

“I*m scared!** the child said, shrinking back. 

Emma took her hand to kiss it; she struggled free. 

“That's enough, take her away!** cried Charles, who was sobbing 

in the alcove. 

After this the symptoms subsided briefly; she seemed less agi¬ 
tated; and, at each insignificant word, at each rise and fall of her 
breast, now somewhat quieter, he took fresh hope. When at last 
C aniv et appeared, he flung hims elf weeping into his arms. 

“Ah, it*s you! Thank you, you are kind! But everythmg is improv¬ 
ing. See, look at her .. .** 

His colleague was not in the slightest degree of this opmion and 
—as he himself put it—^without “beating about the bush, he ordered 
an emetic in order to empty the stomach entirely. 

Immediately she began to vomit blood. Her lips pinched more 

271 



tightly together. Her limbs were contracted, her body covered with 
brown spots, and her pulse slipped beneath the fingers like a 
stretched wire, like a harp string about to snap. 

Then she began to scream, horribly. She cursed the poison, 
heaped invectives upon it, pleaded with it to hurry, and pushed 
away with her stiffened arms all that Charles, more anguished than 
she, forced himself to make her drink. He was standing, his hand¬ 
kerchief at his lips, weeping, his throat rattling, strangled by sobs 
that shook him to his heels; F^licite was scurrying here and there 
about the room; Homais, immobile, was sighing deeply, and Mon¬ 
sieur Canivet, still retaining his composure, was nevertheless be¬ 
ginning to feel concerned. 

“The devil! . . . still, she's purged, and the moment the cause is 
removed . . 

“The effect ought to disappear," Homais said. "Obviously.” 

“Save her!” Bovary exclaimed. 

So, without listening to the pharmacist, who was once more ven- 
tmring the hypothesis: “It may be a therapeutic paroxysm,” Canivet 
was about to administer the antidote again when the crack of a 
whip was heard; all the windows shivered and a traveling-coach 
pulled at full speed by three horses mud-spattered to the ears, came 
sweeping around the comer of the market building. It was Doctor 
Lariviere. 

The apparition of a god would not have called forth more emo¬ 
tion. Bovary flung up his hands, Canivet stopped short and Homais 
removed his Greek cap long before the doctor entered. 

He belonged to the great surgical school of idealistic practitioners 
sprung from Bichat's example in that generation, now vanished, 
surgeons who, cherishing their art with a fanatical love, practiced 
it with enthusiasm and wisdom. In his hospital everyone quaked 
when he became angry, and his students venerated him to such an 
extent that, when barely established, they forced themselves to 
imitate him as closely as possible; so that, throughout the neighbor¬ 
ing towns, one kept seeing again and again, upon them, his long 
quilted merino greatcoat and his ample black coat, the imbuttoned 
cuffs of which partly covered his firm-skinned hands, fine hands 
which never wore gloves, as if in order to be more prompt in search¬ 
ing out pain. Scorning decorations, titles and academies,, dedicated 

272 



to the poor and sick, liberal, fatherly with the unfortunate and 
practicing virtue without believing in it, he might almost have 
earned the reputation of a saint if the keenness of his wit had not 
made him feared like a demon. His glance, more penetrating than 
his scalpels, probed straight to your soul and cut out any falsehood 
among the allegations and reticences. And so he proceeded, full of 
that simple majesty which is the gift of the consciousness of a great 
talent, of fortime, and of forty years* hard-working and irreproach¬ 
able existence. 

On the threshold he frowned, seeing Emma*s cadaverous face as 
she lay stretched on her back, her mouth open. Then, while seeming 
to listen to Canivet, he stroked his upper lip with his forefinger, re¬ 
peating: 

“That*s right, that’s right.” 

But he made a slow gesture with his shoulders. Bovary noticed it: 
they looked at one another; and this man, although so accustomed 
to Ae sight of grief, was unable to restrain a tear which fell upon 
his ruffled shirt-bosom. 

He insisted upon taking Canivet into another room. Charles fol¬ 
lowed him. 

“She’s very sick, isn’t she? What if we applied mustard plasters .. . 
something! You find something to do for her, you who have saved so 
many!” 

Charles flung his two arms around the other man and gazed at him 
with a frenzied, pleading look, half collapsed against his chest. 

“Come now, be brave, my poor fellow! There’s nothing further to 
do.” 

And Doctor Larivi^re turned away. 

“You’re going?” 

“I wiU be back.” 

He went out, as if to give an order to his coachman, accompanied 
by Canivet, who was no more anxious than he to have Emma die on 
his hands. 

The pharmacist joined them in the square. He was tempennentally 
incapable of parting from these celebrated gentlemen. He therefore 
begged Monsieur Larivi^re to do him the immense honor of accept¬ 
ing an invitation to breakfast. 

Justin was speedily dispatched to get pigeons from the Lion tTOf, 

273 



all the chops there were in the butcher shop, cream from Tuvache, 
eggs from Lestiboudois. and the apothecary himself helped in the 

preparations. 

He saw fit, after the first bites, to supply some details about the 
tragedy: 

“I insisted, Doctor, upon attempting an analysis, and primo, I deli¬ 
cately inserted into a test tube ... ^ 

“It would have been more to the point,” the surgeon said, “to 

insert your fingers into her throat. 

His colleague remained silent, having just received, privately, a 
strong reprimand on the subject of his emetic, with the result that 
the good Canivet, so arrogant and verbose in the case of the clubfoot, 
was extremely retiring today; he kept smiling constantly in an ap¬ 
proving manner. 

At last Monsieur Larivi^re was about to leave, when Madame 
Homais asked for a consultation for her husband. He was thickening 
his blood by falling asleep every evening after diimer. 

“Oh, I shouldn’t think his blood was too thick.” 

And, smiling a little over this unnoticed emphasis, the doctor 
opened the door. But the pharmacy was crammed with people, and 
he had great difficulty in extricating himself from Monsieur Tuvache, 
who feared a chest ailment for his wife because she made a habit of 
spitting into the ashes; then from Monsieur Binet who sometimes 
felt sudden hunger pangs, and from Madame Caron who had itch- 
ings; from Lheureux who had dizzy spells; from Madame Lefran^ois 
who had heartburn. At length the three horses dashed away, and the 
general opinion was that he had not been at all obliging. 

Public attention was distracted by the appearance of Monsieur 
Bournisien, who was passing through the market building with the 

holy oils. 

Homais, as he owed to his principles, compared priests to carrion 
crows, attracted by the odor of death; the sight of a clergyman was 
personally distasteful to him, for the cassock made him think of the 
shroud, and he reviled the one partly because of his horror of the 
other. Nevertheless, not recoiling in the face of what he called his 
“mission,” he returned to Bovary’s house in the company of Canivet, 
whom Monsieur Larivike, before leaving, had strongly urged to 

do so. 


274 



The room, when they entered, was full of gloomy solemnity. Upon 
the worktable, covered with a white napkin, were five or six small 
balls of cotton in a silver dish, beside a large crucifix, between two 
lighted candles. Emma, her chin sunk upon her breast, had her eye¬ 
lids stretched abnormally wide; and her poor hands crept over the 
sheet in that hideous soft gesture of the dying, who seem to try in 
advance to pull the shroud about them. Pale as a statue, his eyes red 
as coals, Charles, tearless, stood facing her at the foot of the bed, 
while the priest, kneeling on one knee, muttered low-voiced words. 

She turned her face slowly, and seemed overcome with joy at sud¬ 
denly seeing the violet stole, possibly rediscovering in the midst of 
a singular quiescence the lost ecstasy of her first mystical ardors 
mingled with visions of eternal bliss which were beginning. 

The priest rose to take up the crucifix; she stretched her neck then, 
like one suffering from thirst and, pressing her lips to the body of 
the Man-God, with her full dying strength she bestowed upon it the 
most genuine kiss of love she had ever given. Next he recited the 
Misereatur and the IndulgentUiin, dipped his right thumb in the oil 
and began the extreme unctions: first upon the eyes which had so 
coveted all earthly splendors; then upon the nostrils, hungry for warm 
breezes and voluptuous fragrances; then upon the mouth which had 
opened for falsehood, which had moaned from vanity and cried out 
in lust; then upon the hands, which had reveled in soft touches, and 
last upon the soles of the feet, once so swift when she had run to 
the gratification of her desires, and which now would walk no longer. 

The cur6 wiped his fingers, flung the bits of oil-soaked cotton into 
the fire and returned to sit beside the dying woman to tell her that 
she was now about to join her sufferings to those of Jesus Christ and 

to abandon herself to divine mercy. 

As he ended his exhortations, he tried to put into her hand a holy 
taper, symbol of the celestial glories with which she would soon be 
surrounded. Emma, too weak, could not close her fingers, and had it 
not been for Monsieur Boumisien the taper would have fallen to the 

floor. 

Meanwhile her pallor had lessened, and her face had an expres¬ 
sion of serenity, as if the sacrament had healed her. 

The priest did not fail to remark upon this, he even went so far 
as to explain to Bovary that sometimes the Lord prolonged life for 

275 



certain persons when He considered it expedient for their salvation; 
and Charles recalled a day when, close to death like this, she had 

received Communion. 

“Perhaps we shouldn’t give up hope,” he thought. 

Indeed, she was looking all about her, slowly, like one rousing 
from a dream; then, in a distinct voice, she asked for her mirror, and 
she remained leaning over it for some time, until the moment when 
great tears clouded her eyes. At this, she let her head fall back, 
sighing deeply, and sank down upon the pillow. 

At once her breast began to rise and fall rapidly. Her tongue 
protruded out of her mouth to its full length; her eyes, rolling up, 
dimmed like two lamp globes burning out, so that one might have 
thought her already dead had it not been for the terrifying accelera¬ 
tion of her ribs, shaken by furious breathing, as if the soul were 
leaping to get free. Felicite knelt before the crucifix, and the phar¬ 
macist himself bent a little at the knees, while Monsieur Canivet 
gazed vaguely out into the square. Bournisien had resumed praying, 
his face bowed against the edge of the bed, with his long black 
cassock trailing out behind him into the room. Charles was at the 
other side, kneeling, his arms stretched out toward Emma. He had 
taken her hands and was pressing them, quivering at each beat of 
her heart as if in reaction to the collapse of a ruin. The louder the 
rattling breath became, the more the priest speeded his orisons: 
they mingled with Bovary s stifled sobs, and sometimes all seemed 
to be submerged in the hollow muttering of Latin syllables that 

tolled like a passing-bell. 

Suddenly a sound of heavy wooden shoes was heard on the side¬ 
walk, and the tapping of a stick; and a voice was raised, a raucous 

voice which sang: 

♦ “Warm sun shining from above 

Makes a young girl dream of love.” 

Emma reared up like a galvanized corpse, her hair hanging, her 
eyeballs fixed, staring. 

“Diligently gathering 
Ears the scythe has mowed to earth, 

276 



My Nanette goes, bending low 
Toward the soil that gave them birth ” 

“The blind man!” she screamed. 

And she began to laugh, a shocking, phrenetic, despairing laugh, 
seeming to see before her the beggar’s hideous face rising up like 
a horror amid the eternal night. 

“Strong that day the wind did blow. 

Up her petticoat did go!” 

A convulsion flung her back upon the mattress. Everyone gathered 
about her. She was dead. 


277 




. j 




•y ^ 



e-3&lt;i&gt;FTER anyone’s death, there is 
always a sort of stupefaction that sets in, so 
difficult is it to realize this actuality of nothingness and 
to resign oneself to belief in it. When he became aware of her im¬ 
mobility, however, Charles flung himself upon her, crying: 

“Good-byl Good-byl” 

Homais and Canivet dragged him from the room. 

“Control yourselfl” 

“Yes,” he said, struggling free, “I will be reasonable, I won’t do 
any harm. But let me alone. I want to see her, she s my wifel 

And he burst into tears. 

“Cry ” the pharmacist said, ‘let nature take its course; it will 
relieve you.” 

Charles, become weaker than a child, let himself be taken down¬ 
stairs, into the sitting room, and soon Monsieur Homais returned to 
his own home. 

In the square he was accosted by the blind man who, having 
dragged himself to Yonville in the hope of the antiphlogistic oint¬ 
ment, was asking each passer-by where the apothecary lived. 

“Oh, finel As if I hadn’t other fish to fryl Well, I’m sorry, come 
back later.” 

And he hurried into the pharmacy. 

He had to write two letters, compound a sedative for Bovary, 
invent a story that might serve to conceal the poisoning and write 
it up as an article for the Fanal, not to mention the customers who 
were waiting to get information; and when the folk of Yonville had 
all heard his tale of the arsenic she had mistaken for sugar in 
making a vanilla cream, Homais returned once more to Bovary’s 

house. 

He found him alone (Monsieur Canivet had just left), seated in an 

278 



armchair beside the window, and gazing with an idiot stare at the 
flagstones of the floor. 

“Now you must fix the time for the ceremony,” the pharmacist said. 

“Why? What ceremony?” 

Then, in a stammering and frightened voice: 

“Oh, no. Do I have to? No, I want to keep her.” 

Homais, to keep in countenance, took a pitcher from the whatnot 

and watered the geraniums. 

“Ah, thank you,” Charles said. “You re kind.” 

And he did not finish, smothering imder a wave of memories the 

pharmacist’s gesture recalled to him. 

At this, to distract him, Homais thought it advisable to say a few 
words about horticulture; plants required moisture. Charles nodded 
in sign of agreement. 

“Anyway, the fine weather will be here soon, now. 

“Ah!” Bovary said. 

“Well, welll There’s Monsieur Tuvache going by.” 

Charles repeated like an automaton: 

“Monsieur Tuvache going by.” 

Homais did not dare say anything further about funeral arrange¬ 
ments; it was the priest who succeeded in resigning him to it. 

He locked himself in his ofBce, took up a pen and, after sobbing 
for a time, he &gt;vrote: 

“I want her buried in her wedding dress, with white shoes, a gar¬ 
land on her head. Her hair is to be spread out over her shoulders; 
three cofBns, one of oak, one of mahogany, one of lead. No one is 
to talk to me, I shall be strong. She is to be laid on a big piece of 

green velvet. I want it done that way. Do it.” 

The gentlemen were vastly astonished by Bovary’s romantic no¬ 
tion, and the pharmacist promptly went to say to him: ^ 

“This velvet seems a superfluity to me. Besides, the expense . . . 
“Is it any of your business?” Charles shouted. “Let me alone! 

You didn’t love her. Go awayl” 

The priest took his arm to make him take a walk about the garden. 
He spoke of the vanity of earthly things. God was very gr^t, very 
good; one should submit to His decrees without complaint, even 

thank Him. 

Charles buKt out in blasphemies. “I curse Him, your God! 

279 



“The spirit of rebellion is still in you,” the clergyman sighed. 

Bovary was far away. He was walking \vith great strides along 
the wall beside the fruit trees, and he was grinding his teeth, cast¬ 
ing looks of malediction toward heaven; but not even a single leaf 
stirred for all that. 

A fine rain was falling. In the end, Charles, whose chest was bare, 
began to shiver; he went back to the house and sat down in the 
kitchen. 

At six o’clock the sound of iron-boimd wheels was heard in the 
square: it was the Hirondelle arriving; and he leaned his head against 
the windowpane, watching all the passengers climb down one after 
another. Felicite spread a mattress for him in the parlor; he flung 
himself upon it and fell asleep. 

Although a philosopher, Monsieur Homais respected the dead. So, 
without cherishing any resentment toward Charles, he returned that 
evening to watch beside the body, bringing with him three books 
and a pad of paper for taking notes. 

Monsieur Boumisien was there, and two tall candles were burning 
at the head of the bed which had been pulled out of the alcove. 

Charles entered and, moving toward the bed, he slowly drew 
back the curtains. 

Emma lay with her head bent toward her right shoulder. The 
corner of her mouth, which hung open, made a sort of black hole 
in the lower part of her face, her two thumbs were still bent in 
upon the palms of her hands; a kind of white dust sprinkled her 
eyelids, and her eyes were beginning to disappear beneath a viscous 
film that resembled a thin fabric, as if spiders had spun a web over 
them. The sheet was hollowed between her breasts and her knees, 
sloping up from there to the tips of her toes; and it seemed to Charles 
that immeasurable masses, that an enormous weight was pressing 
down upon her. 

He placed himself opposite her in order to see her better, and he 
lost himself in this contemplation which was no more painful for 
being profound. 

He kept remembering stories of catalepsy, the miracles of mag¬ 
netism; and he told himself that by wishing it with the utmost con¬ 
centration he might perhaps succeed in reviving her. Once he leaned 

280 



toward her and cried aloud: “Emma, Emmal” His breath, violently 
expelled, made the candle flames flicker against the wall. 

At dawn, Madame Bovary, his mother, arrived; Charles was seized 
by a fresh outburst of tears as he embraced her. She tried, as the 
pharmacist had done, to make a few comments upon the expenses 
of the burial. He flew into so furious a rage that she fell silent, and 
he even persuaded her to go immediately to the city to buy what 
was necessary. 

Charles remained alone all afternoon; Berthe had been taken to 
Madame Homais, Felicity kept to her room upstairs, with Madame 
Lefran 9 ois. 

That evening he received visitors. He rose, shook hands, unable 
to speak, then the newcomer sat down beside the others who made 
a wide half-circle before the hearth. Heads down and ankles on 
knees, they jiggled their legs, sighing deeply at intervals; and every¬ 
one was immeasurably bored, yet they vied with one another as to 
who would stay longest. 

Upon his arrival, the cur6 asked how Monsieur was feeling; and, 
at the apothecary s reply, he said: 

“The blow is still too recent, you see.” 

At this Homais congratulated him upon not being in a position, 
like other people, to lose a dearly beloved companion; from which 
evolved an argument on the celibacy of priests. 

“For it's not natural,” the pharmacist said, “for a man to do with¬ 
out women. There are instances of crimes . . . 

“But for goodness' sake!” the clergyman shouted. “How do you 
expect a married man to keep the secrets of the confessional, for 
instance?” 

The sound of incessant baying rose and fell, somewhere far away. 
“Do you hear a dog howling?” the pharmacist said. 

“They claim dogs smell death,” the priest answered. “It s like bees: 
they fly out of the hive when people die.” Homais did not correct 
these superstitions, for he had fallen asleep. 

Monsieur Boumisien, being sturdier, continued for some time to 
move his lips softly; dien, very gradually, he dropped his chin, let 
fall his thick black book and began to snore. 

Charles did not wake them, coming in. It was the last time. He 

had come to say good-by to her. 

281 



The watermarks shimmered on the satin gown, white as moon¬ 
light. Emma was vanishing beneath it; and it seemed to him that, 
flowing out beyond herself, she was being lost, dissipated in things 
that pressed in: in tlie silence, in the darkness, in the wind that blew 
past, in the damp fragrances that rose from below. 

Then, suddenly, he saw her in the garden at Tostes, on the bench, 
in front of the thorn hedge, or in Rouen, in the streets, on the 
threshold of their house, in the courtyard at Les Bertaux. He heard 
again the laughter of young men making merry, dancing under the 
apple trees; the room was full of the scent of her hair, and her gown 
shivered in his arms with a sound of sparks. That was the same, 
the same onel 

He stood long, remembering thus all the vanished delights, her 
attitudes, her gestures, the quality of her voice. After one moment 
of despair, another came to him, and another and another, inex¬ 
haustibly, like the waves of an incoming tide. 

He was seized by a terrible curiosity: slowly, with the tips of his 
fingers, quaking, he raised her veil. But he gave a cry of horror 
which waked the other two. They drew him downstairs, into the 
sitting room. 

Later F61icit6 came to say that he was asking for a lock of hair. 

“Cut one ofi,'' the apothecary said. 

And, as she did not dare, he came forward himself, scissors in 
hand. He was shaking so violently that he pierced the skin of the 
temples in several places. At last, stiffening himself against emotion, 
Homais slashed two or three times at random, leaving white patches 
among that beautiful black hair. 

The pharmacist and the cur6 plunged once more into their occu¬ 
pations, not without falling asleep from time to time, for which they 
mutually reproached each other at each new awakening. Then Mon- 
sieiu- Boumisien sprinkled the room with holy water and Homais 
scattered a httle chlorine on the floor. 

Felicity had taken care to set out for them, on the chest of draw¬ 
ers, a bottle of brandy, a cheese and a large brioche. So at four 
o clock in the morning the apothecary, who could stand it no longer, 

sighed: 

“My word, Td take a little sustenance with pleasurel” 

The clergyman did not have to be coaxed; he went out to say 

282 



his Mass, returned; then they ate and clinked glasses, snickering a 
little without knowing why. stimulated by that sourceless gaiety 
which lays hold of us after periods of sadness: and. at the last little 
glass, the priest said to the pharmacist, slapping him on the shoulder: 

“We*ll end up understanding each otherl 

Downstairs, in the vestibule, they met the workmen who were 
arriving. Then, for two hours, Charles was forced to endure the 
torture of the hammer resounding on the boards. After that she was 
brought down in an oak cofHn, which was encased in the two others, 
but as the bier was too large, the spaces had to be stuffed with wool 
from a mattress. At last, when the three caskets had been planed, 
nailed, soldered, she was placed on view before the door; the house 
was flung open, and the folk of Yonville began to pour in. 

Old Rouault arrived. He fainted in the square upon catching 

sight of the black pall. 


283 





macist s letter until thirty-six hours after the 
event; and out of consideration for his sensibility. Mon¬ 
sieur Homais had composed it in such a fashion that it was im¬ 
possible to know what to believe. 

He reached the point of supposing that this was perhaps a prac¬ 
tical joke, an act of revenge on someone's part, the notion of a man 
in a prankish mood; and besides, if she were dead, one could tell. 
He came in sight of the village; they saw him pounding along, 
leaning flat over his horse, which he was flogging mercflessly and 
whose saddle girths were flecked with blood. 

When he regained consciousness he fell weeping into Bovary s 

arms. ^ 

“My daughter! Emma, my child! Explain to me . . . 

And the other answered through sobs: 

“I don't know, I don't know. It's a curse!" 

The apothecary separated them. 

“These horrible details are futile. I'll inform Monsieur of them. 
Here are people coming. Dignity, confound it! A philosophical 

attitude!” 

The poor young man wanted to appear strong, and he repeated 
several times: “Yes . . . courage! 

“Well,” cried the old man, “I’ll have that, by God! I'm going to 
go with her to the end.” 

The bell was tolling. All was ready. They had to start. 

And, sitHng side by side in a choir stall, they saw the three 
cantors pace constantly back and forth, chanting psalms. The bass 
horn rumbled, full-throated. Monsieur Boumisien, in full panoply, 
sang in a shrill voice; he saluted the tabernacle, raised his hands, 
stretched out his arms. Lestiboudois moved about the church with 

284 



his strip of whalebone; the casket stood near the lectern, between 
four rows of tapers. Charles had an impulse to stand up and put 

them out. 

They chanted, they knelt, they rose again, there was no end to 
itl He remembered that once, in the early days, they had attended 
Mass together, and they had sat on the other side, at the right, 
against the wall. The beU began again. There was a great scraping 
of chairs. The pallbearers slipped their three poles under the casket, 

and they left the church. 

Just then Justin appeared on the doorstep of the pharmacy. He 

went back inside at once, pale, tottering. 

The black pall, sown with white teardrops, lifted from time to 
time, exposing the casket. The weary pallbearers walked more 
slowly; and she advanced by continuous jerks, like a small boat that 

pitches at every wave. 

They arrived at the cemetery. 

The men continued on to the far end, to a spot in the grass 
where the grave had been dug. 

They ranged themselves all aroimd it; and while the priest spoke, 
the red earth flung out on the edges kept trickling down at the 

comers, soundlessly, incessantly. 

Then, when the four ropes had been adjusted, the casket was 
pushed over them. He watched it sink down. It kept sinking forever. 

At last a bump was heard; the ropes came creaking up. Now 
Boumisien took the spade held out to him by Lestiboudois; with 
his left hand, while sprinkling holy water ^vith his right, he vig¬ 
orously prodded a large shovelful; and the wood of the coflBn, 
stmck by the pebbles, made that ghastly sound which seems to us 

to be the reverberation of eternity. 

The priest passed the aspergill to his neighbor. It was Monsieur 
Homais. He shook it gravely, then handed it to Charles, who sank 
to his knees in the earth and cast handfuls of it into the grave, 
crying, "Good-byl” He threw her kisses; he dragged himself toward 

the grave to be buried there with her. 

He was led away; and he soon became quieter, experiencing, 

perhaps, like everyone else, the vague satisfaction of being done 

with it. , 

Old Rouault, returning to the house, began placidly to smoke 

285 


a 



pipe; which Homais, in his inner consciousness, considered most 
unsuitable. In the same spirit he observed that Monsieur Binet had 
refrained from appearing, that Tuvache “had dodged out after the 
Mass, and that Theodore, the notary's servant, was wearing a blue 
suit, “as if he couldn’t have got hold of a black one, since it's cus¬ 
tomary, damn it!” And, in order to communicate his observations, 
he kept moving from group to group. Everyone was deploring 
Emma's death, particularly Lheureux, who had not failed to be 
present at the burial. 

“That poor little womanl What a grief to her husbandl” 

The apothecary answered: 

“If it had not been for me, you know, he would have made a 

tragic attempt upon his own life.” 

“Such a good personl And to think that I saw her in my shop 

only last Saturday.” 

“I didn’t have the time,” Homais said, “to prepare a few words 
which I would have cast upon her grave.” 

Upon returning to the house, Charles undressed and old Rouault 
put on his jacket again. It was new, and as he had frequently wiped 
his eyes on the sleeves during his ride, some of the color had nm 
onto his face; and the traces of tears made trails in the layer of 
dust that dirtied it. 

Charles' mother was with them. They were all silent. At length 
the old man sighed: 

“You remember, my friend, how I came to Tostes one time when 
you had just lost your first wife. I consoled you then. I found 
something to say; but now ...” 

Then, with a long groan which lifted his chest: 

“Ah, this is the end for me, 1 tell youl I saw my wife go . . . 
next my son . . . and now my daughter, today.” 

He insisted upon returning at once to Les Bertaux, saying that 
he would be unable to sleep in this house. He even refused to see 
his granddaughter. 

“No, no, it would make me too sad. Only you give her a big kiss 
for me. Good-by . . . you're a good boy. And besides. I'll never 
forget this,” he said, tapping his thigh. “Never fear! You'll still get 
your goose.” 

That evening Charles and his mother, despite their weariness, 

286 



sat very late talking together. They spoke of days gone by and of 
the future. She would come to live in Yonville, she would keep 
house for him; they would never part again. She was artful and 
caressing, inwardly rejoicing at reclaiming an affection of w^h 
she had been deprived for so many years. Midnight struck, ihe 
village was silent, as usual, and Charles, wakeful, was still thinking 

Rodolphe, who had been hunting all day long to distract himself, 
slept tranquiUy in his chiteau; and Leon, in the city, slept too. 

There was one other who, at that hour, was not asleep. 

Upon the grave, among the pine trees, a child was on 

his knees, and his chest, bursting with sobs, heaved in the shadows 
under the pressure of a vast sorrow, softer than the moonhght and 
more unfathomable than the night. Suddenly the gate crewed. It 
was Lestiboudois; he had come in search of his spade which he 
had left behind earlier. He recognized Justin scaling the wall, an 
knew then what the truth was about the malefactor who had been 

stealing his potatoes. 


287 



yy 

had the little girl 

brought back the next day. She asked for her 
mother. They told her that she was away, that she would 
bring back toys. Berthe spoke of her again several times; then, at 
length, she no longer thought of her. The child's gaiety over¬ 
whelmed Bovary, and he had to submit to the pharmacists intoler¬ 
able consolations. 

Soon the financial difficulties began again, Monsieur Lheureux 
once more egging on his friend Vingart, and Charles pledged enor¬ 
mous sums; for he would never consent to allow one least article 
which had belonged to her to be sold. His mother was exasperated 
by this. He became more angry than she. He had changed entirely. 
She left the house. 

Then everyone began to take advantage. Mademoiselle Lem- 
pereur demanded payment for six months lessons, although £mma 
had never taken a single one (despite the receipted bill she had 
shown Bovary): it had been an agreement between the two women; 
the lending library demanded payment for a three-year subscrip¬ 
tion; Mere Rollet demanded payment for having delivered a score 
of letters; and, as Charles requested an explanation, she had the 
delicacy to answer: 

“Oh, I don’t know anything about it, it was business.” 

At each debt he paid, Charles thought that this was the end of 
them. Others kept coming in, endlessly. 

He tried to collect overdue payments for professional visits. He 
was shown the letters his wife had sent out. Then he was obliged 
to apologize. 

F61icit4 now wore Madame's dresses; not all, for he had kept 
some of them, and he would go and lock himself up in her dressing- 
room and look at them; she was of almost the same build, often 

288 



Charles, seeing her from behind, was gripped by an illusion and 

cried out: 

“Oh, stay! Stay!” 

But at Pentecost she departed from Yonville, carried off by 
Theodore, and stealing all that was left of the wardrobe. 

It was about this time that Madame Dupuis, widow, had the 
honor of announcing “the marriage of her son, Monsieur L4on 
Dupuis, lawyer of Yvetot, to Mademoiselle Leocadie Leboeuf, of 
Bondeville.” Charles, among the congratulations he offered him, 
wrote this phrase: 

“How happy my poor wife would have been! 

One day when, wandering aimlessly about the house, he had 
gone up to the attic, he felt beneath his shpper a wad of thin 
paper. He opened it and read: “Be brave, Emma, be brave! I cannot 
bring myself to min your life.” It was Rodolphe s letter, fallen to 
the floor among some boxes, which had remained there and which 
the draft from the dormer window had blown toward the door. 
And Charles stood motionless and gaping in that same spot where 
long before, even paler than he, Emma, in despair, had wished to 
die. At length he discovered a small R at the foot of the second 
page. Who was it? He remembered Rodolphe's attentions, his sud¬ 
den disappearance and the air of constraint he had had on the two 
or three occasions when he had met him since. But the respectful 

tone of the letter deceived him. 

“Perhaps they loved each other platonically,” he thought. 

In any case, Charles was not one of those who delve to the 
bottom of things; he shrank from proofs, and his uncertain jealousy 

was lost in the immensity of his sorrow. 

People must have adored her, he thought. Certainly all men had 
desired her. She seemed the more beautiful to him for that; and 
because of it he conceived a lasting, furious desire that intensifled 
his despair and had no limit, because it was now incapable of being 

fCdlizcd* 

To please her, as if she were still alive, he adopted her predilec¬ 
tions, her ideas; he bought himself polished boots, he formed the 
habit of wearing white cravats. He waxed his mustache, he signed 
demand notes, as she had done. From beyond the grave she was 

corrupting him. 


289 



He was obliged to sell the silverware, piece by piece, then he 
sold the drawing-room furniture. All the rooms became barren; but 
the bedroom, her bedroom, remained as before. After his dinner, 
Charles would go there. He would push the round table in front 
of the fire, and bring up her easy-chair. He would sit down opposite. 
A candle would be burning in one of the gilded candlesticks. 
Beside him, Berthe colored pictiures. 

Now no one came to visit them; for Justin had run away to Rouen 
where he had become a grocer*s boy, and the apothecary s children 
associated less and less with the Httle girl. Monsieur Homais was 
not anxious, considering the difference in their social positions, that 
the intimacy should be continued. 

The blind man, whom he had been unable to cure with his oint¬ 
ment, had returned to the Bois-Guillaume hill, where he related 
the pharmacist’s vain attempt to passengers, to such a point that 
Homais, when he traveled to the city, hid himself behind the 
Hirondelle's curtains in order to avoid facing him. He reviled him; 
and, in the interests of his own reputation, wishing to be rid of him 
at all costs, he directed a hidden attack against him which revealed 
the deptli of his intelligence and the atrociousness of his vanity. 
For six consecutive months there appeared in the Fanal de Rouen 
short paragraphs to this effect: 

“All persons who set forth toward the fertile lands of Picardy 
will undoubtedly have noticed, upon the Bois-Guillaume rise, a 
wretched creature afficted with a horrible facial sore. He impor¬ 
tunes you, persecutes you and levies an actual tax upon the passen¬ 
gers. Are we still in the monstrous times of the Middle Ages, when 
beggars were permitted to spread in our public squares the leprosies 
and scrofulas they had brought back from the CrusadesF* 

Or: 

“Despite the laws against beggary, the outskirts of our great 
cities continue to be infested by bands of paupers. One sees some 
of them who operate individually and who are not, perhaps, the 
least dangerous. What are our lawmakers thinking ofF" 

Then Homais invented anecdotes: 

“Yesterday, on the Bois-Guillaume rise, a skittish horse ...” And 
there followed the tale of an accident caused by the presence of 
the blind man. 


290 



He succeeded in getting him jailed. But he was released. He 
began again, and Homais too began again. It was a battle. He won 
the victory; for his enemy was condemned to perpetual seclusion 
in a poorhouse. 

This success emboldened him; and from that time on not a dog 
was run over in the district, not a bam burned down, not a woman 
beaten but he at once informed the public of it, always guided by 
love of progress and hatred of priests. He drew comparisons be¬ 
tween primary schools and lay-brothers, to the detriment of the 
latter, recalled Saint Bartholomew in connection with a grant of 
one himdred francs made to the church and denoimced abuses, 
laimched campaigns. This was his own word. Homais was under¬ 
mining; he was becoming dangerous. 

He was stifling, however, within the narrow confines of journal¬ 
ism, and soon he needed the space of a book, an opusl So he composed 
General Statistics of the Yonville District, followed by Climatic 
Observations, and statistics impelled him toward philosophy. He 
became preoccupied with great questions: social problems, morali- 
zation on the lower classes, pisciculture, rubber, railroads and the 
like. He reached the point of blushing at being a middle-class 
citizen. He affected the “artistic manner,” he smoked! He bought 
himself two elegant Pompadour statuettes to decorate his drawing¬ 
room. 

Charles and he made a trip together to Rouen to look at tomb¬ 
stones at a monument-maker^s, accompanied by an artist, a painter 
named Vaufrylard, a friend of Bridoux* who constantly made puns. 
At last, having examined a himdred designs, ordered an estimate 
and made a second trip to Rouen, Charles decided upon a mauso¬ 
leum which was to bear upon bodi of its principal sides ‘*a genie 
holding an extinguished torch.” 

One strange thing was that Bovary, while thinking constantly of 
Emma, was forgetting her; and he was in despair at feeling that 
image escape hrom his memory in the midst of the efforts he was 
making to retain it. Each ni^t, however, he dreamed of her; it 
was always the same dream: he was moving toward her, but when 
he came to embrace her she crumbled away to putrescence in his 
arms. 

t In spite of the sparing fashion in which Bovary lived, he was far 

291 



from being able to pay off his old debts. Lheureux refused to renew 
any of his notes. Seizure became imminent. Then he appealed to 
his mother, who consented to let him take out a mortgage on her 
possessions, but added lengthy recriminations against Emma; and 
she asked, in return for her sacrifice, a shawl which had escaped 
F61icit6's ravages. Charles refused it. They quarreled. 

She made the first overtures toward patching it up by suggesting 
that she take the little girl to live with her and help her about the 
house. Charles agreed to this. But, at the moment of her departure, 
all courage forsook him. This time the break was definite, complete. 

As his other ties disappeared, he clung more and more closely 
to the love of his child. Yet she caused him concern, for she coughed 
sometimes, and had red patches over her cheekbones. 

Opposite him, flourishing and merry, paraded the family of the 
pharmacist, to whose satisfaction they all contributed. Napoleon 
was assisting him in the laboratory, Athalie was embroidering him 
a Greek cap, Irma was cutting out circles of paper to cover jelly 
jars, and Franklin could recite the table of Pythagoras in one 
breath. He was the happiest of fathers, the most fortunate of men. 

An error! A secret ambition was gnawing him: Homais desired 
the Cross. He was not lacking in claims to it: 

First, at the time of the cholera, having been distinguished by a 
limitless devotion to duty; second, having published, and at my 
own expense, various works of public benefit, such as . . . (and 
he recalled his monograph entitled: C/pon Cider, Its Manufacture 
and Its Effects; further, some observations on the laniferous plant- 
louse which had been sent to the Academy; his volume of statistics 
and even his pharmacist s thesis); not to mention that I am a mem¬ 
ber of several learned societies (he was a member of one). 

‘"Anyway,” he cried, making a pirouette, “if it's only to make 
me conspicuous at fires!” 

Then Homais bowed to Power. He rendered Monsieur le Pr^fet 
great services, secretly, in the elections. He sold himself, indeed, 
prostituted himself. He even addressed to the King a petition in 
which he appealed to him to “see that justice was done him”; he 
called him “our good king” and compared him to Henry IV. 

And every morning the apothecary flung himself upon the news¬ 
paper to discover his nomination in it; it did not materialize. At 

292 



last, no longer counting upon it, he had a grassplot designed in 
his garden, representing the star of honor, with two small twisted 
streamers of grass coming down from the top to imitate the rib¬ 
bons. He would walk around it, his arms folded, meditating upon 
the ineptitude of the government and the ingratitude of mankind. 

Out of respect, or out of a sort of sensuality which caused him 
to be deliberate about his investigations, Charles had not yet 
opened the secret compartment of the rosewood desk which Emma 
had been accustomed to use. Eventually, one day, he seated him¬ 
self before it, turned the key and pushed the spring. All of Leon s 
letters were there. No more doubt, this time! He devoured them 
down to the last one, fumbled in all the comers, all the furniture, 
all the drawers, behind the walls, sobbing, crying out, distracted, 
mad. He discovered a box, smashed it with a blow of his foot. 
Rodolphe s portrait leaped out at him, full in the face, in the midst 
of tumbled love letters. 

People were astonished at his loss of heart. He no longer went 
out, received no one, even refused to go and see his patients. It 
was said, therefore, that he ‘'shut himself up to drink. 

Sometimes, however, an inquisitive person would crane over the 
garden hedge and be shocked at seeing that man with his long 
beard, covered with filthy garments, wild-eyed, weeping aloud as 
he walked. 

On summer evenings he would take his little girl with him and 
lead her to the cemetery. They would retmm after nightfall, when 
there was no other light in the square than Binet’s dormer window. 

Still, the gratification of his grief was incomplete, for he had no 
one about him who shared it; and he paid visits to Mere Lefrangois 
in order to talk about her. But the innkeeper listened with only 
one ear, having troubles of her own, for Monsieur Lheureux had 
just estabhshed the Favorites de Commerce, and Hivert, who en¬ 
joyed a great reputation as a runner of errands, was demanding 
a wage rise and threatening to take service “with the Competitors. 

One day when he had gone to the Argeuil market to sell his 

horse—his last resource—he met Rodolphe. 

They paled upon catching sight of one another. Rodolphe, who 
had merely sent his card, first stammered a few apologies, then 
became bolder and even carried self-confidence to the length of 

293 



inviting him to have a bottle of beer at the tavern (it was very 
warm, it was in the month of August). 

Leaning on his elbows opposite him, he chewed his cigar as he 
talked, and Charles lost hims elf in reverie, faced with those features 
that she had loved. He seemed to recapture something of her. It 
was an amazing thing. He would have liked to be that man. 

The other continued to talk farming, cattle, fertilizer, plugging 
with banal phrases every gap into which an allusion might slip. 
Charles was not listening to him; Rodolphe became aware of this, 
and traced the passage of his memories upon the mobility of his 
features. They were crimsoning little by little, the nostrils fluttered 
rapidly, the lips were quivering; there was even an instant when 
Charles, full of a somber rage, fixed his eyes upon Rodolphe, who 
interrupted himself in a sort of terror. But soon the same gloomy 
lassitude reappeared upon his face. 

“I don’t bear you a grudge,” he said. 

Rodolphe remained silent. And Charles, his head in his two 
hands, went on in a stifled voice and with the resigned accent of 
infinite grief; 

“No, I don’t bear you a grudge any morel” 

He even added a great observation, the only one he had ever 
made: 

“It was the fault of destinyl” 

Rodolphe, who had directed that particular destiny, thought 
him very good-natured for a man in his situation, comical even, 
and a bit vile. 

The next day Charles went to sit on the bench in the arbor. Day¬ 
light filtered in through the trellis; vine leaves traced their shadows 
on the sand, the jasmin breathed out its fragrance, the sky was 
blue, flies were buzzing about the flowering lilies, and Charles was 
smothered like an adolescent beneath the vague amorous eflluvia 
that swelled his grieving heart. 

At seven o’clock little Berthe, who had not seen him all afternoon, 
came to fetch him for dinner. 

He was sitting with his head tipped back against the wall, his 
eyes closed, his mouth open, and held in his hands a long lock of 
black hair. 

“Come, Papa!” she said. 


294 



And, thinking that he wanted to play, she pushed at him gently. 
He fell to the ground. He was dead. 

Thirty-six hours later, at the apothecary's request, Monsieiu* 
Canivet came. He opened the body and found nothing. 

When everything had been sold, there remained twelve francs 
seventy-five centimes, which served to pay for Mademoiselle 
Bovary's journey to her grandmother. The good woman died within 
the year; old Rouault was paralyzed, it was an aunt who took 
charge of the girl. She is poor, and sends her to a cotton mill to 
earn her living. 

Since Bovary*s death, three doctors have followed one another 
in Yonville, without being able to succeed, so prompt has Monsieur 
Homais been to open fixe upon them. He is building up a spectacu¬ 
lar practice; authority deals kindly with him and public opinion 
protects him. 

He has just received the cross of the Legion of Honor. 


295 



SRI PRATAP COLLEGE LIBRARY 

SRINAGAR ( Kashmir ) 

DATE LOANED 

Class No, _ Book No. __ 

Acc, No. 


This book may be kept for 14 days. An over - due 
charge will be levied at the rate of 10 Raise for each day 
the book Is kept over - time. 



SRI PRATAP COLLEGE LIBRARY 

SRINAGAR ( Kashmir ) 

DATE LOANED 

Class No, _ Book No. __ 

Acc, No. 


This book may be kept for 14 days. An over - due 
charge will be levied at the rate of 10 Raise for each day 
the book Is kept over - time. 



SRI PRATAP COLLEGE LIBRARY 

SRINAGAR ( Kashmir ) 

DATE LOANED 

Class No, _ Book No. __ 

Acc, No. 


This book may be kept for 14 days. An over - due 
charge will be levied at the rate of 10 Raise for each day 
the book Is kept over - time. 



SRI PRATAP COLLEGE LIBRARY 

SRINAGAR ( Kashmir ) 

DATE LOANED 

Class No, _ Book No. __ 

Acc, No. 


This book may be kept for 14 days. An over - due 
charge will be levied at the rate of 10 Raise for each day 
the book Is kept over - time.