ZECHARIAH.
Chapter 12.
This is a message from Yahweh concerning Israel. Yahweh is the one who stretched out the sky, who created the earth, and who ◄gave life to humans/caused humans to be alive►. This is what he says: 
“I will soon cause Jerusalem to be like MET a cup full of very strong alcoholic drink, and the people of other nations who drink it will stagger around. And they will come and attack Jerusalem and the other towns in Judah. 
At that time, the armies of all the nations will gather to attack Jerusalem, but I will cause the leaders of Judah to be like SIM a very heavy rock, and all who try to lift it will be badly injured. 
At that time I will cause every one of their enemies’ horses to panic, and their riders to become crazy. I IDM will protect the people of Judah, but I will cause all their enemies’ horses to become blind. 
Then the leaders of Judah will say to themselves, ‘The people in Jerusalem are strong because the Commander of the armies of angels is their God.’ 
At that time I will enable the leaders of Judah to be like SIM a pan containing hot coals that is put in a woodpile to set iit on fire, or like SIM a burning torch that is put in a field of ripe grain to set it n fire. The leaders of Judah and their army will destroy the people of the surrounding nations in all directions. But the people of Jerusalem will remain safe. 
And I, Yahweh, will protect the tents of the soldiers in other places in Judah before I rescue the people of Jerusalem, in order that the leaders of Jerusalem DOU will not be honored more than the people in other places in Judah are honored. 
At that time, I will protect MET the people of Jerusalem. When that happens, even the weakest people in Jerusalem will be strong like King David was. And the descendants MTY of David will rule the people like I would, as though an angel sent from me, Yahweh, was their leader. 
At that time, I will prepare to destroy all the nations that attack Jerusalem.” 
“I, Yahweh, will cause the descendants MTY of King David to act very kindly and mercifully. They will look at me, the one who has been stabbed, and they will cry bitterly, like people cry for a firstborn son who has died DOU. 
At that time, many people in Jerusalem will be crying bitterly, like people cried when King Josiah was killed in the battle at Hadad-Rimmon on the Megiddo Plain. 
Many people in Judah will cry, each family by themselves: the male descendants of David by themselves, and their wives by themselves, the male descendants of David’s son Nathan by themselves, and their wives by themselves, 
the male descendants MTY of Levi by themselves, and their wives by themselves, the male descendants of Levi’s grandson Shimei by themselves, and their wives by themselves, 
and all the other members of the kings’ clans and the priests’ clans by themselves, and their wives by themselves.” 
