JOB.
Chapter 42.
Then Job replied to Yahweh. He said, 
“I know that you can do everything and that no one can stop you from doing what you want to do. 
You asked me, ‘◄Who are you, who by speaking ignorantly, question what I plan to do?/You have no right to question what I plan to do by speaking ignorantly.►’ RHQ It is true that I spoke about things that I did not understand, things that are very wonderful/marvelous, and therefore I am not able to know them. 
You said to me, ‘Listen while I talk to you. I want to ask you some questions, so prepare yourself to answer them.’ 
I had heard about you previously, but now it is as though I have seen you with my own eyes. 
Therefore I ◄am ashamed of/withdraw► what I said, and I sit in dust and ashes to show that I am sorry for what I said.” 
After Yahweh said these things to Job, he said to Eliphaz, “I am angry with you and your two friends, Bildad and Zophar, because what my servant Job said about me was right/true, but what you have spoken about me was not right/true. 
So now you must take to Job seven young bulls and seven rams and kill them and burn them on the altar as a sacrifice for yourselves. Then Job will pray for you, and I will do what he requests me to do, and I will forgive you for speaking wrongly about me. I will not punish you, even though you deserve to be punished, because what you said about me was not right/true, but what Job said about me was right/true.” 
So Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar did what Yahweh commanded them to do, and Yahweh did what Job requested him to do for the three of them. 
After Job prayed for his three friends, Yahweh healed him and caused him to become rich again. Yahweh gave him twice as many things as he had before. 
Then all his brothers and sisters, and all the people who had known him before, came to his house, and they ate a meal together. They consoled/comforted DOU him because of all the troubles that Yahweh had allowed him to experience. 
Then Yahweh blessed Job in the second half of his life more than he had blessed him in the first half of his life. He now acquired/owned 14,000 sheep, 6,000 camels, 2,000 oxen, and 1,000 female donkeys. 
And he also had seven more sons and three more daughters. 
He named the first daughter Jemimah, he named the second daughter Keziah, and he named the third daughter Keren-Happuch. 
In all of Uz land there were no young women who were as beautiful as the daughters of Job, and Job declared that they would inherit some of his possessions, just like their brothers would inherit some. 
After that, Job lived 140 more years. Before he died, he ◄saw/enjoyed being with► his great-great-grandchildren. 
He was very old DOU when he died. 
