2 KINGS.
Chapter 2.
When Yahweh was about to take the prophet Elijah up to heaven in a ◄whirlwind/twisting wind►, Elijah and his fellow prophet Elisha were traveling south from Gilgal town. 
Elijah said to Elisha, “Stay here, because Yahweh has told only me to go to Bethel town.” But Elisha replied, “Just as certainly as Yahweh lives and you live, I will not leave you!” So they went down together to Bethel. 
A group of prophets came to Elisha and Elijah before they entered the town, and they asked Elisha, “Do you know that Yahweh is going to take your master/boss Elijah away from you today?” Elisha answered, “Certainly I know that, but don’t talk about it!” IDM 
Then Elijah said to Elisha, “Stay here, because Yahweh has told only me to go to Jericho.” But Elisha replied again, “Just as certainly as Yahweh lives and you live, I will not leave you!” So they went together to Jericho city. 
As they neared Jericho, a group of prophets who were from there came to Elisha and said to him, “Do you know that Yahweh is going to take your master/boss Elijah away from you today?” He answered again, “Certainly I know that, but don’t talk about it!” IDM 
Then Elijah said to Elisha, “Stay here, because Yahweh has told only me to go to the Jordan River.” But again Elisha replied, “As certainly as Yahweh lives and you live, I will not leave you!” So they continued walking together. 
Fifty men from a group of prophets who were from Jericho also went, but they watched from a distance as Elijah and Elisha stopped at the edge of the Jordan River. 
Then Elijah rolled up his cloak and struck the water with it. A path opened up for them through the river, and they walked across as though they were on dry ground. 
When they came to the other side, Elijah said to Elisha, “What do you want me to do for you before ◄I am taken away/Yahweh takes me away►?” Elisha replied, “I want to receive twice as much of your power as you have had, (OR enable me to very powerfully continue your ministry).” 
Elijah replied, “You have asked for something which is difficult for me to cause to happen. But, if you see me when ◄I am taken from you/Yahweh takes me from you►, you will get what you are requesting. But if you do not see me, then you will not get it.” 
As they were walking and talking, suddenly a chariot that had fire surrounding it, pulled by horses which also had fire surrounding them, appeared. The chariot driver drove the chariot between Elijah and Elisha and separated them. Then Elijah was taken up to heaven in a ◄whirlwind/twisting wind►. 
Elisha saw it. He cried out, “My father/master! My father/master! The chariots of us Israeli people and their drivers have taken my master away!” They disappeared into the sky, and Elisha never saw Elijah again. Then Elisha tore his own robe into two pieces to show that he was sad. 
Elijah’s cloak had fallen off when he was taken away, so Elisha picked it up and returned to the bank of the Jordan River. 
He rolled up the cloak and struck the water with it, and cried out, “Will Yahweh, the God who enabled Elijah to perform miracles, enable me to do similar things?” Then the water separated, and a path opened up for him, and Elisha went across. 
When the group of prophets from Jericho saw what happened, they exclaimed, “Elisha now has the power that Elijah had!” MTY They walked over to him and bowed down in front of him. 
One of them said, “Sir, if you permit us, 50 of our strongest men will go and search for your master on the other side of the river. Perhaps the Spirit of Yahweh has left him on some mountain or in some valley.” Elisha replied, “No, do not send them.” 
But they kept insisting. Finally he was tired of saying “No,” and he said, “Okay, send them.” So 50 men searched for three days, but they did not find Elijah. 
They returned to Jericho, and Elisha was still there. He said to them, “I told you that you should not go, because you would not find him!” RHQ 
Then the leaders of Jericho city came to talk with Elisha. One of them said, “Our master, we have a problem. You can see that this is a very nice place to live in. But the water is bad, and as a result, crops will not grow on the land.” 
Elisha said to them, “Put some salt in a new bowl and bring the bowl to me.” So they brought it to him. 
Then he went out to the spring from which the people in the town got water. He threw the salt into the spring. Then he said, “This is what Yahweh says: ‘I have made this water good/pure. No longer will anyone die, from having drunk this water, and now crops will be able to grow.’” LIT 
And the water became pure, just as Elisha said it would be. Since that time it has always remained pure. 
Elisha left Jericho and went up to Bethel. As he was walking along the road, a group of young boys from Bethel saw him and started to make fun of him. They continued shouting, “Go away, you bald-headed man!” 
Elisha turned around and looked/glared at them. He asked Yahweh to ◄curse them/do something bad to them►. Immediately two bears came out of the woods and mauled forty-two of them. 
Elisha left Bethel and went to Carmel Mountain, and after that he returned to Samaria city. 
