HOSEA.
Chapter 5.
“Listen, you priests! And you other Israeli people, you also pay attention! And you who are members of the king’s family, you also need to listen, because I am going to judge you! Your worshiping idols has been like MET a trap for the people at Mizpah town; it has been like MET a net spread out to catch people at Tabor Mountain. 
You have done many evil things, so I will punish all of you. 
I know everything about the people of Israel; nothing that they have done is hidden from me. Because the people of Israel have given themselves to worshiping idols like MET prostitutes give themselves to the men they sleep with, they have become unacceptable to me. 
Because they like to do evil things, they will not return to me, their God. Like prostitutes who have abandoned their husbands MET, they have IDM abandoned MET me; they do not even know me, Yahweh. 
It is as though their being proud testifies PRS against them. The sins that the people of Israel have committed are like a heavy load that causes them to stumble, and the people of Judah stumble with them. 
They will come to worship me, Yahweh, bringing their herds of sheep and cattle, but they will not be able to find me, because I have abandoned them. 
They have abandoned me; and their children do not belong to me MET. So they will not be able to celebrate their festivals at the new moons because I will destroy them and the crops in their fields. 
Blow the rams’ horns in Gibeah town and blow the trumpets in Ramah town! Warn the people at Beth-Aven town; you warriors of the tribe of Benjamin, lead the troops into the battle. 
Israel will be ruined on the day that I destroy them. What I am telling to the tribes of Israel will certainly happen. 
Because the leaders of Judah seized some land that belonged to Israel, they are like SIM those who move boundary markers to get more land for themselves; so I will punish them severely MET. 
And the people of Israel will suffer greatly when I punish them, because they are very determined to worship idols. 
I will destroy the people of Israel like SIM ◄larvae of moths/cockroaches► destroy wool, and I will cause the people of Judah to be like SIM rotten wood. 
When the leaders of Israel and Judah saw that the people were suffering because of what their enemies were doing to them MET, they sent messages to the great King of Assyria requesting his help. But he cannot help you; he cannot cause you to stop suffering, because I am the one who is punishing Israel and Judah. 
I will become like SIM a lion DOU to both nations; I will attack them and tear them to pieces. I will drag them away, and no one will be able to rescue them. 
After that, I will return to my place in heaven until they admit that they have sinned MTY and return to me; when they will experience many troubles, they will request me to help them.” 
