SONG OF SONGS.
Chapter 4.
My darling, you are beautiful, you are very beautiful! Underneath your veil, your eyes are as gentle as MET doves. Your long black hair moves from side to side like SIM a flock of black goats moving down the slopes of Gilead Mountain. 
Your teeth are very white like SIM a flock of sheep whose wool has just been ◄shorn/cut off► and that have come up from being washed in a stream. You have all of your teeth; none of them is missing. 
Your lips are like SIM a scarlet ribbon, and your mouth is lovely. Beneath your veil, your round, rosy/red cheeks are like SIM the halves of a pomegranate. 
Your long neck is beautiful like SIM the tower of King David that was built using layers/rows of stone. The ornaments on your necklaces are like 1,000 HYP shields that are hanging on the walls of a tower; each one belongs to a warrior. 
Your breasts are as beautiful SIM as two ◄fawns/young gazelles► that eat grass among lilies. 
Until dawn tomorrow morning and the nighttime shadows/darkness disappear, I will lie close to your breasts that are like MET hills that are covered with incense DOU. 
My darling, you are completely beautiful; your body is perfectly formed! 
My bride, it is as though you are in MET Lebanon far away, where I cannot reach you; come back to me. It is as though you are inaccessible MET on the top of Hermon Mountain or the nearby peaks. Come from where the lions have their dens and where the leopards live on the mountains. 
My bride DOU, you who are dearer to me than my sister, you have captured my affection IDM by only once quickly looking at me, and by one strand of jewels in your necklace. 
My bride, your love for me is delightful! It more delightful than wine! And the fragrance of your perfume is more pleasing than any spice! 
Being kissed by you is as enjoyable as eating MTY honey; your kisses are as sweet as milk mixed with honey. The aroma of your clothes is like SIM the aroma of cedar trees in Lebanon. 
My bride, you who are dearer to me than MET my sister, you are like MET a garden that is locked in order that other men cannot enter it; you are like MET a spring or a fountain that is covered in order that others may not drink from it. 
You are like MET an orchard of pomegranate trees full of delicious fruit, and plenty of plants that produce henna and nard spices, 
and saffron and calamus and cinnamon and many other kinds of incense, and myrrh and aloes and many other fine spices. 
You are like MET a fountain in a garden, like MET a spring of clear water that flows down from the mountains of Lebanon. 
I want the north wind and the south wind to come, and blow on my garden, in order that the fragrance of the spices will spread through the air. Similarly, I want the one who loves me to come and enjoy cuddling up to me like MET, EUP someone comes into a garden and enjoys eating the fruit that grows there. 
