JOB.
Chapter 30.
“But now men who are younger than I am make fun of me— men whose fathers I greatly despised, with the result that I would not even have allowed them to help my dogs guard my sheep. 
They were men who were old and ◄weak/worn out►; so ◄what could I gain from them working for me?/I would have gained nothing from them working for me.► RHQ 
They were very poor and hungry, with the result that they chewed on roots at night in dry and desolate places. 
They pulled up plants in the desert and ate them and warmed themselves by burning the roots of broom trees. 
Everyone shouted at them as though they were thieves and expelled them from their areas. 
They were forced to live in caves in the hills, in holes in the ground, and in the sides of cliffs. 
In the bushes they howled like animals because they were hungry, and they huddled together under thornbushes. 
They were people without good sense, whose names no one knows; they have been expelled from the land where they were born. 
“And now their children sing songs to make fun of me. They tell jokes about me. 
They are disgusted with me, and they usually stay away from me, but when they see me, they are happy to spit in my face. 
Because it is as though MET God has cut my bowstring, he has caused me to be unable to defend myself, and he has humbled me, and my enemies have done to me whatever they wanted. 
◄Gangs/Groups of violent youths► attack me and force me to run away; they prepare to destroy me. 
They prevent me from escaping, and they do not need anyone to help them (OR, there is no one to help me). 
It is as though I am a city wall and SIM they have broken through the wall, and they have come crashing down on me. 
I am very terrified; My dignity/honor has been taken away as though SIM it has been blown away by the wind, and my prosperity has disappeared like SIM clouds disappear. 
“And now I SYN am about to die IDM; I suffer every day. 
My bones ache during the night, and the pain that torments me never stops. 
It is as though God seizes my clothes and chokes me with the collar of my coat. 
He has thrown me into the mud; I am not worth anything more than dust and ashes. 
“I cry out to God, but he does not answer/help me; I stand up and pray, but he does not pay any attention. 
He acts very cruelly toward me; with all of his power MTY he causes me to suffer. 
He allows the wind to lift me up and blow me away, and he tosses me up and down in a violent storm. 
I know that he will cause me to die, which is what happens to everyone MTY who is alive. 
“When people experience disasters, and they sit on a pile of ruins and cry out for help, others surely RHQ reach out their hand to help them. 
That is what I did previously. I wept for people who were experiencing troubles, and I felt sorry for poor/needy people. 
But when I expected good things to happen to me, evil things happened; when I waited for light/happiness, all I experienced was darkness/unhappiness MET. 
I am very distressed IDM, all the time; I suffer every day. 
I go about very discouraged; I stand up and plead for people to help me. 
My wailing sounds as sad as MET the cries of jackals/foxes and ostriches. 
My skin has become dark/black and is peeling off, and I have a fever which causes my body to feel like it is burning. 
Previously, I played joyful music on my harp and with my flute, but now I play only the sad music of those who mourn.” 
