SONG OF SONGS.
Chapter 6.
You who are the most beautiful of all the women, where has the one who loves you gone? If you tell us which RHQ direction he went, we will go with you to search for him. 
The one who loves me has now come to me, who am like MET, EUP his garden, He has come to enjoy my ◄charms/physical attractions► which are like MET, EUP spices, to enjoy cuddling up to me EUP, MET, and kissing my lips, which are like MET lilies. 
I belong to the one who loves me, and the one who loves me belongs to me; he enjoys kissing my lips like MET a shepherd enjoys taking care of his sheep. 
My darling, you are beautiful, like SIM Tirzah the capital city of Israel and Jerusalem the capital city of Judah are beautiful; you are as exciting MET as a group/battalion of troops holding up their banners. 
Quit looking at me like that, because your eyes excite me very much. Your long black hair moves from side to side like SIM a flock of black goats moving down the slopes of Gilead Mountain. 
Your teeth are very white like SIM a flock of sheep whose wool has just been shorn and that have come up from being washed in a stream. You have all of your teeth; none of them is missing. 
Beneath your veil, your cheeks are like SIM the halves of a pomegranate. 
Even if a king had 60 queens and 80 ◄concubines/slave wives► and more young women than anyone can count, 
none of them would be like my dove, who is perfect, you who are your mother’s only daughter, whom your mother considers to be very precious. Other young women who see you say that you are fortunate, and the queens and concubines recognize that you are very beautiful. 
Who is RHQ this woman who is as delightful as SIM the dawn, as fair/delightful to look at as the light of the moon, as exciting as a group/battalion of troops holding up their banners? 
I went down to some walnut trees to look at the new plants that were growing in the valley. I wanted to see if the grapevines had budded or if the pomegranate trees were blooming. 
But before I realized it, my desire to make love caused me to be as excited as a prince riding in a chariot. 
You who are the perfect one, come back to us, in order that we may see you! Why do you want to look at this woman who is perfect, like SIM you like to watch two rows/lines of people dancing? 
