EZEKIEL.
Chapter 25.
Some time later, Yahweh gave me another message. He said, 
“You human, turn toward where the Ammon people-grouplives, and prophesy aboutwhat will happen to them. 
Say about them, ‘This is what Yahweh the Lord says: You shouted joyfully when my templein Jerusalem was destroyed, and when the country/land of Israel was ruined, and when the people of Judah were ◄exiled/forced to go► to Babylonia. 
Therefore, I am going to allow you to be conquered by people who will come from the east. They will set up their tents in your country and live there. And they will eat the fruit from yourfruit trees and drink the milkfrom your cattle. 
I will causeyour capital city Rabbah to become a pasture for camels, and the rest of Ammon to becomeonly a resting place for sheep. Then you will know that I, Yahweh, have the power to do what I say that I will do. 
This is what I, Yahweh the Lord, say: You clapped your handsjoyfully and stomped your feet, and laughed because you despised the people in the land of Israel. 
Therefore, I will use my power MTY against you, and I will enable other nations toconquer you and take away your valuable possessions. I will destroy you completely DOU, with the result that you no longer will be a nation. When that happens, people will know that I, Yahweh, have the power to do what I say that I will do.’ ” 
This is also what Yahweh the Lord says: “The people of  Moabsouth of Ammon and the people of Seirsouth of Moab despised Israel and said, ‘The people MTY of Israel have becomeas unimportant as all the other nations!’ 
Therefore, I will destroy the cities that protect the borders of Moab, starting at Beth-Jeshimoth, Baal-Meon, and Kiriathaim, the finest cities in Moab. 
I will enable people from the east to conquer Moab and also to conquer Ammon. As a result, I will cause that Ammon will no longer be remembered by other nations. 
I will also punish the people of  Moab. When that happens, they will know that I, Yahweh, have the power to do what I say that I will do.” 
This is also what Yahweh the Lord says: “You people of Edom are guilty of getting revenge on the people MTY of Judah. 
Therefore this is what I, Yahweh the Lord, say: I will use my power against the people of Edom and will get rid of their men and their animals. I will ruin the land from Teman region in central Edom to Dedan region in the south of Edom, and many of their men will be killed bytheir enemies swords. 
The Israeli people will use their power MTY to get revenge on the people of Edom. They will show the people of Edom that I have been angry with them, and I will punish MTY them. The people of Edom will experience my getting revenge on them. Then they will know that I, Yahweh the Lord, have the power to do what I say that I will do.” 
This is also what Yahweh the Lord says: “The Philistia people-group wanted very much to get revenge on the people of Judah. They very maliciously wanted to destroy Judah. 
Therefore this is what I, Yahweh the Lord, say: I am about to use my power MTY against the Philistia people. I will get rid of the Kereth people-group and all those who live along the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. 
By the way I punish them, I will get great revenge on them and show that I am angry with them. And when I get revenge on them, they will know that I, Yahweh the Lord, have the power to do what I say that I will do.” 
