NEHEMIAH.
Chapter 11.
The Israeli leaders and their families settled in the sacred city, Jerusalem. The other people ◄cast lots/threw marked stones► to determine which family from each ten families would live in Jerusalem. The other people continued to live in the other towns and cities in Judea. 
Those people asked God to bless those who volunteered to be among the 10% who  moved to Jerusalem. 
Some of the priests, some of the other descendants of Levi, some of the temple workers, and the descendants of King Solomon’s servants, and many of the other people lived on their own property in the towns where their ancestors had lived. 
But some people from the tribes of Judah and Benjamin decided to live in Jerusalem. One of them from the tribe of Judah was Athaiah. He was the son of Uzziah, who was the son of Zechariah, who was the son of Amariah, who was the son of Shephatiah, who was the son of Mahalalel, who was a descendant of Judah’s son Perez. 
Another one from the tribe of Judah was Maaseiah, who was the son of Baruch, who was the son of Colhozeh, who was the son of Hazaiah, who was the son of Adaiah, who was the son of Joiarib, who was the son of Zechariah, who was a descendant of Judah’s son Shelah. 
There were 468 men who were descendants of Perez who were valiant/courageous soldiers who lived in Jerusalem. 
One of the men of the tribe of Benjamin who decided to live in Jerusalem was Sallu, the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jeshaiah. 
Two of Sallu’s relatives, Gabbai and Sallai, also settled in Jerusalem. Altogether, 928 people from the tribe of Benjamin settled in Jerusalem 
Their leader was Joel, son of Zichri. The official who was second in command in Jerusalem was Hassenuah. 
The priests who settled in Jerusalem were Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jakin, 
Seraiah, the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub who had previously been  the Supreme Priest. 
Altogether, 822 members of that clan worked in the temple. Another priest who settled in Jerusalem was Adaiah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah. 
Altogether, there were 242 members of that clan who were leaders of the clan who settled in Jerusalem. Another priest who settled in Jerusalem was Amashsai the son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer. 
There were 128 members of that clan who were valiant soldiers who settled in Jerusalem. Their leader was Zabdiel the son of Haggedolim. 
Another descendant of Levi who settled in Jerusalem was Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni. 
Two others were Shabbethai and Jozabad, who were prominent men who supervised the work outside the temple. 
Another one was Mattaniah, the son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph. Mattaniah directed the temple choir when they sang the prayers to thank God. His assistant was Bakbukiah. Another one was Abda, the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun. 
Altogether, there were 284 descendants of Levi who settled in Jerusalem. 
The men who guarded the temple gates were Akkub and Talmon and 172 of their relatives who settled in Jerusalem. 
The other Israeli people including priests and other descendants of Levi lived on their own property in other towns and cities in Judea. 
But the temple workers lived on Ophel Hill in Jerusalem. They were supervised by Ziha and Gishpa. 
The man who supervised the other descendants of Levi who helped the priests and lived in Jerusalem was Uzzi, the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica. Uzzi belonged to the clan of Asaph, the clan that was in charge of the music in the temple. 
The king of Persia had commanded that the clans should decide what each clan should do to lead the music in the temple each day. 
Pethahiah, the son of Meshezabel, who was from the clan of Zerah and a descendant of Judah, was the ambassador of the Israelis to the king of Persia. 
Some of the people who did not settle in Jerusalem lived in villages close to their farms. Some from the tribe of Judah lived in villages near Kiriath-Arba, Dibon, and Jekabzeel cities. 
Some lived in Jeshua city, in Moladah city, in Beth-Pelet city, 
in Hazar-Shual city, and in Beersheba city and the villages near it. 
Others lived in Ziklag city, in Meconah city and the villages near it, 
in En-Rimmon city, in Zorah city, in Jarmuth city, 
in Zanoah city, in Adullam city, and in the villages near those cities. Some lived in Lachish city and in the nearby villages, and some lived in Azekah town and the villages near it. All of those people lived in Judea, in the area between Beersheba in the south and Hinnom Valley in the north, at the edge of Jerusalem. 
The people of the tribe of Benjamin lived in Geba city, Micmash city, Aija city which is also known as Ai, Bethel city and in nearby villages, 
in Anathoth city, in Nob city, in Ananiah town, 
in Hazor city, in Ramah city, in Gittaim city, 
in Hadid city, in Zeboim town, in Neballat town, 
in Lod town, in Ono town, and in Craftsmen’s Valley. 
Some of the groups of rhe descendants of Levi who had lived in Judea were sent to live with the people of the tribe of Benjamin. 
