1 CHRONICLES.
Chapter 15.
David commanded his workers to build some houses for him in Jerusalem. He also told them to set up a tent in which to put the Sacred Chest. 
He said, “Only the descendants of Levi are permitted to carry God’s Sacred Chest, because they are the ones whom God chose to carry it and to serve him forever.” 
David summoned all the people of Israel to come to Jerusalem. He wanted the Sacred Chest of Yahweh to be put in the place that he had made for it. 
He summoned the descendants of Aaron, who was the first Supreme Priest, and the other descendants of Levi. 
120 descendants of Kohath, who was Levi’s second son, came, with Uriel their leader. 
There were 220 descendants of Merari, Levi’s third son, who came, with Asaiah their leader. 
There were 130 descendants of Gershon, Levi’s first son, who came, with Joel their leader. 
There were 200 people from Elizaphan’s clan who came, with Shemaiah their leader. 
There were 80 people from Hebron’s clan who came, with Eliel their leader. 
And there were 112 people from Uzziel’s clan who came, with Amminadab their leader. 
David summoned the priests Zadok and Abiathar and these other descendants of Levi: Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab. 
David said to them, “You are the leaders of the clans descended from Levi. You and the other descendants of Levi must purify yourselves, in order to be able to do this special work for Yahweh. You must bring the Sacred Chest of Yahweh, the God of us Israelis, up to the place that I have made for it here in Jerusalem. 
The first time that we tried to bring it, we did not ask Yahweh how we should carry it {it should be carried}. You descendants of Levi were not the ones who carried it, so Yahweh our God punished us.” 
Then the priests and the other descendants of Levi performed the rituals to purify themselves, in order that it would be proper for them to do the work of carrying the Sacred Chest of Yahweh, the God of us Israeli people. 
The descendants of Levi inserted the poles into the rings on the Sacred Chest so that with them, they could carry the Sacred Chest on their shoulders, like Moses had commanded, and like Yahweh had said that they should. 
David told the leaders of the descendants of Levi to appoint some of their relatives to sing joyful songs and play lyres, harps, and cymbals while they were carrying the Sacred Chest. 
So they appointed Heman and his relatives Asaph and Ethan. Heman was the son of Joel; Asaph was the son of Berekiah. Ethan, a descendant of Merari, was Kushaiah’s son. 
There was also another group of descendants of Levi who were appointed: Zechariah, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, and two of the Sacred Tent gatekeepers, Obed-Edom and Jeiel. 
Heman, Asaph and Ethan sang, and also played bronze cymbals. 
Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah, and Benaiah played lyres. 
Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom, Jeiel and Azaziah played harps. 
Kenaniah, the leader of the descendants of Levi, directed the singing because he was very skilled at doing that. 
Berekiah and Elkanah were two of the men who guarded the Sacred Chest. 
The priests Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer were appointed to blow trumpets in front of the Sacred Chest. Obed-Edom and Jehiah also guarded the Sacred Chest. 
David and the Israeli leaders and the officers who commanded 1,000 soldiers went to bring the Sacred Chest back from Obed-Edom’s house. They were very joyful as they brought it to Jerusalem. 
God helped the descendants of Levi who carried the Sacred Chest of Yahweh; therefore David and the leaders sacrificed seven bulls and seven ◄rams/male sheep► to thank him. 
All the descendants of Levi who carried the Sacred Chest, all the singers, and Kenaniah, the man who directed those who sang, wore robes of fine white linen and sacred vests made of fine linen. David also wore a sacred vest made of white linen. 
So all of the Israeli people joined in bringing the Sacred Chest up to Jerusalem. They shouted joyfully, while the musicians blew horns and trumpets, and played cymbals, lyres, and harps. 
While they were bringing the Sacred Chest into Jerusalem, Saul’s daughter Michal watched them, looking out of a window. When she saw King David dancing and celebrating, she despised him. 
