LEVITICUS.
Chapter 13.
Yahweh said this to Aaron and Moses/me: 
“When someone has on his skin a swelling or a rash or a shiny/bright spot that may become ◄contagious/a dreaded skin disease►, he must be brought to Aaron or to one of his sons who are also priests. 
The priest must examine that part of the person’s skin. If the hair in that area has become white and it appears that the sore is deeper than just on the skin, it is a contagious skin disease. When the priest sees that, he must declare that the person must stay away from other people MTY. 
If the spot on the person’s skin is white but it does not appear that the sore is deeper than just on the skin, the priest must tell him to stay away from other people for seven days. 
Then the priest must examine the person again. If the priest sees that the sore has not changed and has not spread, he must tell the person to stay away from people for seven more days. 
Then the priest must examine him again. If the sore has faded and has not spread, the priest will allow him to be with other people again; it is only a rash. After the person washes his clothes, he will be allowed to be with other people again. 
But if the sore spreads after the priest has examined him, he must go to the priest again. 
The priest will examine him; and if the sore has spread to more of the skin, it is a contagious skin disease, and the priest will declare that he must stay away from other people. 
When anyone has a contagious skin disease, he must be brought to the priest. 
The priest must examine him. And if there is a white swelling in the skin that has caused the hair in that swelling to become white, and if the flesh in that area is painful/sensitive, 
it is a permanent skin disease, and the priest will declare that he must stay away from other people. The priest does not need to tell that person that he must avoid other people, because other people already are wanting to stay away from him. 
‘If the disease spreads all over someone’s body, and the priest examines that person and sees that it is covering his skin from his head to his feet, 
and it has caused all his skin to become white which will indicate that the disease has ended, the priest will declare that the person does not have to stay away from other people. 
But if the person has open sores and they are very painful/sensitive, he has a contagious skin disease, 
and when the priest sees that, he will declare that the person must stay away from other people. 
But if the person’s flesh changes and becomes white, he must go to the priest again. 
The priest must examine him again; and if the sores have become white, the priest will declare that the person who had been infected is now permitted to be with other people again. 
‘Then someone has a boil on his skin and it has healed, 
but in the place where the boil was a white swelling or a bright/shiny spot appears, he must go to the priest. 
The priest must examine it. And if it seems to be deeper than just on the skin, and if the hair in that spot has become white, it is a contagious skin disease that has appeared where the boil had been. And the priest will declare that the person must stay away from other people. 
But when the priest examines it, if there is no white hair in that spot and it is only on the surface of the skin and has become less bright/shiny, then the priest will order him to stay away from other people for seven days. 
But if it is spreading, it is contagious and the priest will declare that the person must stay away from other people. 
But if that spot is unchanged and has not spread, it is only a scar from the boil, and the priest will declare that the person is permitted to be with other people again. 
‘Then someone has a burn on his skin and a bright/shiny or white spot appears, and the flesh in that area is sensitive/painful, 
the priest must examine the spot. If the hair in that spot has turned white and it seems to be deeper than just on the surface of the skin, it is a contagious skin disease that has appeared where the burn was, and that person must stay away from other people. 
But when the priest examines it and sees that there is no white hair in that spot and it is only on the surface of the skin, and has faded, the priest will declare that the person must stay away from people for seven days. 
On the seventh day, the priest will examine him again. If the sore is spreading, it is a contagious skin disease, and the priest will declare that the person must stay away from other people. 
However, if the spot is not changed and has not spread but has faded, it is only a scar from the burn, and the priest will declare that the person is permitted to be with other people again. 
‘If a man or a woman has a sore on his head or on his chin, 
the priest must examine it. If it appears to be deeper than just on the surface of the skin, and the hair in that spot has thinned out and has become yellowish, it is a contagious skin disease that causes itching. And the priest will declare that the person must stay away from other people. 
But when the priest examines that kind of sore, if it seems to be only on the surface of the skin and there is no healthy hair in it, the priest will tell the person to stay away from other people for seven days. 
On the seventh day, the priest will examine the sore again. If it has not spread and if there is no yellow hair in that spot and if it appears to be only on the surface of the skin, 
the person must shave the hair near the sore but not the hair on the sore. And the priest will tell him to stay away from other people for seven more days. 
On the seventh day, the priest will examine that spot again. If it has not spread and it appears to be only on the surface of the skin, the priest will declare that the person is permitted to be with people again. The person must wash his clothes, and then he can be with other people. 
But if the sore later spreads, 
the priest must examine him again. If the itch/sore has spread, the priest does not need to look for yellow hair, because it is clear that the person has a contagious skin disease. 
However, if the priest thinks that the spot has not changed, and healthy hair is growing in that area, it is clear that the itch has healed, and the priest will declare that the person is permitted to be with other people again. 
‘Then a man or a woman has white spots on the skin, 
the priest should examine them. But if the spots are dull white, it is only a rash, and the priest will declare that the person is permitted to be with other people. 
‘If a man loses the hair on any part of his head, he does not need to stay away from other people. 
But if he gets a bright/shiny sore on his bald head or on his forehead, he has a contagious skin disease. 
The priest must examine him. If the swollen sore is a bright spot like the spot on someone who has a contagious skin disease, 
the priest will declare that the man has a contagious skin disease and must not be with other people. 
‘Anyone who has a contagious skin disease must wear torn clothes and not comb his hair. When he is near other people, he must cover the lower part to his face and call out, “o not come near me! I have a contagious skin disease!” 
He is not allowed to be with other people as long as he has the disease. He must live alone, outside the camp.’” 
“Sometimes a person’s clothing gets mildew on it. It may be clothing that is woven from wool or made from linen or from leather. 
If the contaminated/mildewed part is greenish or reddish, it is a spreading mildew, and it must be shown to the priest. 
The priest will examine it, and then put it in a separate place by itself for seven days. 
On the seventh day he must examine it again. If the mildew has spread, it is clear that it is a type of mildew that destroys clothing, and that clothing must not be worn again. 
The owner must burn completely the item that has the mildew in it, whatever kind of item it is. 
But when the priest examines it, if the mildew has not spread, 
he will tell the person who owns it to wash it. Then he must put it in a separate place for another seven days. 
Then the priest will examine it again. If the color of the mildew has not changed, even though it has not spread, that item must not be worn again. It does not matter if the mildew is on the inside of the clothing or on the outside; it must be burned. 
But when the priest examines it after it has been washed, if the mildew has faded, he must tear out that part that had the mildew in it. 
But if the mildew reappears in that item, it is clear that it is spreading, and the whole item must be burned. 
But after the clothing is washed and the mildew disappears, it must be washed again, and then it can be worn again. 
Those are the regulations concerning mildew on things made of wool or linen or leather, for deciding whether those things can continue to be worn or not.” 
