SONG OF SONGS.
Chapter 2.
I am like MET a flower/rose from the Sharon Plain, and like MET a lily that grows in a valley. 
Among the other young women, the one whom I love is like MET a lily growing among thorns! 
And among the other men, you, the man who loves me, are like MET an apple/fruit tree that grows in the forest. You are like a tree whose shadow protects me from the sun, and your being close to me EUP is like MET eating sweet fruit. 
You led me to the ◄banquet room/room where we could make love►, and it is evident that you love me very much. 
Refresh me and strengthen me with your lovemaking like I am refreshed by eating MET, EUP raisins and other fruit, because I very much desire that you love me even more. 
Put your left arm under my head and with your right arm hold me close. 
You young women of Jerusalem, solemnly promise me, while the does and gazelles are listening, that you will not disturb us while we are making love until we are ready to quit. 
I hear the voice of the man who loves me. It is as though MET he is leaping over the mountains and skipping over the hills 
like SIM a deer or a gazelle. Now he is standing outside the wall of our house, looking in the window, and peering through the ◄lattice/wooden strips inside the window frame►. 
He spoke to me and said, “You whom I love, get up; my beautiful one, come with me CHI! 
Look, the ◄winter/cold season► is ended; the rain has stopped; 
flowers are blooming throughout the country/land. It is now time to sing; we hear the doves cooing. 
There are young/new figs on the fig trees, and there are blossoms on the grapevines and their fragrance fills the air. You whom I love, get up; my beautiful one, come with me! 
You are like MET a dove that is hiding far from me in an opening/crack in the rocky cliff. Show me your face, and allow me to hear your voice, because your voice is sweet-sounding and your face is lovely CHI.” 
There are other men who are like MET little jackals/foxes that ruin vineyards; do not allow those men to attack me. 
You who love me, I belong to you and you belong to me, and you experience pleasure when you kiss my lips like MET a shepherd enjoys taking care of his sheep. 
You who love me, come and be like SIM a gazelle or like a young deer on the hills of Bether, and then flee like a deer at dawn tomorrow morning, when the darkness fades. 
