DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 29.
These are the things that the Israelis were required to do to keep the agreement that Yahweh was making with them. Moses/I commanded them to keep this agreement when they/we were in the Moab region on the east side of the Jordan River. This was in addition to the agreement that Yahweh had made with them/us at Sinai Mountain. 
Moses/I summoned all the Israeli people and said to them, “You saw SYN for yourselves what Yahweh did to the king of Egypt and to his officials and to his entire country. 
You SYN saw all the plagues that Yahweh caused them to experience, and all the various miracles DOU that Yahweh performed. 
But until now, Yahweh has not enabled you to understand the meaning of all that you have seen and heard. 
For 40 years Yahweh has led you while you traveled/walked through the desert. During that time, your clothes and your sandals have not worn out. 
You did not have bread to eat or wine or other fermented/strong drinks to drink, but Yahweh took care of you, in order that you would know that he is your God. 
“nd when we came to this place, Sihon, the king who ruled in Heshbon city, and Og, the king who ruled the Bashan region, came with their armies to attack us, but we defeated them. 
We took/conquered their land and divided it among the tribes of Reuben and Gad, and half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
“o faithfully keep all of this agreement, in order that you will be successful in everything that you do. 
Today all of us are standing in the presence of Yahweh our God. The leaders of all our tribes, our elders, our officials, all you Israeli men, 
your wives, your children, and the foreigners who live among you and cut wood for you and carry water for you, are here. 
We are here today to promise to keep this solemn agreement with Yahweh. 
He is making this agreement with you in order to confirm that you are his people, and that he is your God. This agreement is what he promised you, and which is what he vowed to give to your ancestors Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. 
This agreement is not only with you. 
He is making this agreement with us who are here today and also with our descendants who are not yet born. 
“ou remember the things that our ancestors suffered in Egypt, and how they traveled through the land that belonged to other nations after they came out of Egypt. 
In those countries they saw those disgusting idols made of wood and stone and decorated with silver and gold. 
So be sure that no man or woman or family or tribe that is here today turns away from Yahweh our God, to worship/serve the gods of those nations. Doing that would be like a root of a plant that would grow among you and bear poisonous and bitter fruit MET. 
“e sure that no one here today who hears this agreement thinks, ‘Everything will go well with me, even if I stubbornly do what I want to.’ If you are stubborn likethat, the result will be that Yahweh will eventually get rid of all of you, both good people and evil people MET. 
Yahweh will not forgive anyone who is stubborn like that. Instead, he will be extremely angry DOU with that person, and that person will experience all the curses that I have told you about, until Yahweh gets rid of that person and his family IDM. 
From all the tribes of Israel, Yahweh will separate that individual. Yahweh will cause him to experience all the disasters that I have listed in the agreement that states the things that Yahweh will do to curse those who disobey the laws that I have written in this scroll/book. 
“n the future, your descendants and people from other countries will see the disasters and the illnesses that Yahweh has caused to happen to you. 
They will see that all your land has been ruined by burning sulfur and salt. Nothing will have been planted. Not even weeds will grow there. Your land will resemble Sodom and Gomorrah cities, and Admah and Zeboiim cities, which Yahweh destroyed when he was very angry DOU with the people who lived there. 
And the people from those other nations will ask, ‘Why did Yahweh do this to this land? Why was he very angry with the people who lived here?’ 
“hen other people will reply, ‘It is because they refused to keep the agreement that Yahweh, the God whom their ancestors worshiped, had made with them when he brought them out of Egypt. 
Instead, they served/worshiped other gods that they had never worshiped before, gods that Yahweh had told them not to worship. 
So, Yahweh became very angry with the Israeli people in this land, and he caused them to experience all the disasters that their leader warned them about. 
Yahweh became extremely angry DOU with them and took/yanked them MET out of their land and banished them into another land, and they are still there.’ 
“There are some things that Yahweh our God has ◄kept secret/not revealed►, but he has revealed his laws to us, and he expects us and our descendants to obey them forever.” 
