JOB.
Chapter 10.
“I am tired of living. And I will not be silent and stop saying what I am complaining about. Instead, being very unhappy, I will speak IDM. 
I will say to God, ‘Do not say that I must be punished; instead, tell me what wrong you are saying that I have done. 
Does it seem to be good for you to oppress me, to abandon me, whom you created, and instead, to help wicked people to do the things that they plan to do? 
Do you understand things the way that we humans do? 
◄Do you live for only a few years, like we do?/You certainly do not live for only a few years, like we do.► RHQ 
So, why do you RHQ continue to search for my faults? Why do you hunt for my sins? 
You know that I am not guilty, and that no one can rescue me from your power MTY. 
“'With your hands you created me and shaped/formed my body; but now you are deciding that you should not have done that, and you are destroying me. 
Do not forget that you made me from a piece of clay; are you going to cause me to become dirt again RHQ? 
You certainly RHQ directed/controlled it when I was conceived, and you formed me inside my mother’s womb MET. 
You fastened my bones together with sinews, and then you covered them with flesh inside my skin. 
You have caused me to be alive, and you have faithfully loved me, and you have carefully ◄preserved me/kept me alive►. 
“'But you ◄kept secret/did not reveal► what you were planning to do to me; I am certain that you were planning to do these things to me. 
You were watching to see if I would sin, in order that if I sinned, you would refuse to forgive me. 
If I am a wicked man, I hope/wish that terrible things will happen to me. But even if I am righteous, I still must bow my head and feel ashamed, because I am very disgraced and feel miserable. 
And if I am proud, you hunt me like SIM a lion hunts for some animal to kill, and you act powerfully to injure me. 
You constantly find more witnesses to testify that I have done what is wrong, and you continually become more angry/perturbed with me. It is as though you are always bringing new troops to attack me. 
“'God, why did you allow me to be born? I wish/desire that I had died before anyone SYN saw me. 
I consider that it would have been better if I had been carried directly from my mother’s womb to the grave than for me to live. 
I think that RHQ there are only a few days for me to remain alive; so ◄allow me to be alone/stop attacking me►, in order that I may be a little cheerful 
before I go to the place from which I will never return, where it is always gloomy and very dark DOU, 
a place of darkness and dark shadows, where everything is confused/disordered, where even a small amount of light there is like darkness (OR, there is no light, only darkness).’” 
