GENESIS.
Chapter 36.
◄Here is/I will now give you► a list of the descendants of Esau, whose other name was Edom. 
Esau married three women from the Canaan region: Adah, the daughter of Elon from the Heth people-group; Oholibamah, who was the daughter of Anah and granddaughter of Zibeon from the Hiv people-group; 
and Basemath, who was the daughter of Ishmael and sister of Nebaioth. 
Esau’s wife Adah gave birth to Eliphaz. Basemath gave birth to Reuel. 
Oholibamah gave birth to Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. All these sons of Esau were born while he was living in the Canaan region. 
Jacob and Esau had very many possessions. The result was that they needed more land for their livestock. The land where they were living was not big enough for both of them. They had too much livestock. So Esau, whose other name was Edom, had taken his wives and sons and daughters and all the other members of his household, his sheep and goats and his other animals, and all the other things he had obtained in Canaan land, and they had moved to an area that was away from Jacob. 
They went to live in the Seir hilly area. 
◄Here is/I will now give you► another list of the male descendants of Esau. He was the ancestor of the Edom people-group who live in the Seir area. 
Esau’s wife Adah gave birth to Eliphaz, and Esau’s wife Basemath gave birth to Reuel. 
The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz. 
Esau’s son Eliphaz also had a ◄concubine/female slave whom he took as a secondary wife►. Her name was Timna. She gave birth to Amalek. Those six men were grandsons of Esau’s wife Adah. 
Reuel’s sons were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. They were grandsons of Esau’s wife Basemath. 
Esau’s wife Oholibamah, who was the daughter of Anah and granddaughter of Zibeon, gave birth to three sons: Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. 
◄Here is/I will now give you► a list of the people-groups who were descendants of Esau. His oldest son Eliphaz was the ancestor of the Teman people-group, the Omar people-group, the Zepho people-group, the Kenaz people-group, 
the Korah people-group, the Gatam people-group, and the Amalek people-group. They were descendants of Eliphaz and of Esau’s wife Adah. They lived in the Edom region. 
The sons of Esau’s son Reuel were ancestors of the Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah people-groups. They were descended from Esau’s wife Basemath. They also lived in Edom. 
The sons of Esau’s wife Oholibamah, whose mother was Anah, were ancestors of the Jeush, Jalam, and Korah people-groups. 
That is the list of the sons of Esau, and the people-groups who were their descendants. 
◄This is/I will now give you► a list of the descendants of Seir, who belonged to the Hor people-group, who were the first people-group who lived in the Edom region: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, 
Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. Those seven men became ancestors of people-groups. Each of the people-groups had the same name as the name of their ancestor. 
The sons of Lotan were Hori and Heman and Lotan’s sister was Timna. 
The sons of Shobal were Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam. 
The sons of Zibeon were Aiah and Anah. This Anah was the one who discovered the hot springs in the desert while he was taking care of his father Zibeon’s donkeys. 
Anah had two children—a son named Dishon and a daughter named Oholibamah. 
Dishon’s sons were Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Keran. 
Ezer’s sons were Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan. 
Dishan’s sons were Uz and Aran. 
The people-groups who were descendants of Hor lived in the Seir/Edom region. The names of the people-groups are Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. 
These are the names of the kings who ruled in Edom before any kings ruled over Israel. 
Beor’s son Bela became the first king in Edom. The city where he lived was named Dinhabah. 
When Bela died, Zerah’s son Jobab/became the king. He was from Bozrah city. 
When Jobab died, Husham became the king. He was from the region where the Teman people-group lived. 
When Husham died, Bedad’s son Hadan became the king. Husham’s army fought the army of the Midian people-group in the Moab region and defeated them. The city where Husham lived was Avith. 
When Hadad died, Samlah became the king. He was from Masrekah town. 
When Samlah died, Shaul became the king. He was from Rehoboth town along the Euphrates river. 
When Shaul died, Achbor’s son Baal-Hanan became king. 
When Achbor’s son Baal-Hanan died, Hadad became king. The city where he lived was named Pau. His wife’s name was Mehetabel. She was the daughter of Matred, who was the daughter of Me-Zahab. 
◄Here is/I will now give you► a list of all the people-groups that were descendants of Esau: Timna, Alvah, Jetheth, Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon, Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar, Magdiel, and Iram. They all lived in the Edom region. The land where each people-group lived got the same name as the name of the people-group. 
