1 SAMUEL.
Chapter 3.
While he was still a boy, Samuel was working for Yahweh while Eli supervised him. At that time there were very few messages that anyone received from Yahweh, and very few people saw visions that Yahweh gave them. 
By that time Eli’s eyes were very weak; he was almost blind. One night he was sleeping in his room, 
and Samuel was sleeping in the sacred tent, where the chest that contained the Ten Commandments was kept. While the sacred lamp was still burning, 
Yahweh called, “Samuel! Samuel!” Samuel replied, “I’m here!” 
Then he got up and ran to Eli. He said to him, “I am here, because you called me!” But Eli replied, “No, I did not call you. Go back to your bed.” So Samuel went and lay down again. 
Then Yahweh called again, “Samuel!” So Samuel got up again and went to Eli and said, “I am here, because you called me!” But Eli said, “No, my son, I did not call you. Go back and lie down.” 
At that time Samuel did not yet know that  Yahweh could speak to him, because Yahweh had not previously revealed anything to him. 
After Samuel lay down again, Yahweh called him a third time. So again Samuel got up and went to Eli and said, “I am here, because you called me!” Then Eli realized that it was Yahweh who was calling the boy. 
So he said to Samuel, “Go and lie down again. If someone calls you again, say ‘Speak to me, Yahweh, because I am listening!’ ” So Samuel went and lay down again. 
Then Yahweh came and stood there and called as he had done the other times, “Samuel! Samuel!” Then Samuel said, “Speak to me, because I am listening!” 
Then Yahweh said to Samuel, “Listen carefully. I am about to do something here in Israel that will shock/horrify IDM everyone who hears about it. 
When that happens, I will punish Eli and his family. I will do to them everything that I said that I would do. 
His sons have shown great disrespect for me by the disgraceful things they have done, and Eli did not restrain them. So I told him that I would punish his family forever. 
I solemnly promised to Eli’s family, ‘You will never be able to avoid the consequences for your sin, even if you give me sacrifices or offerings.’ ” 
Samuel lay down again until morning. Then he got up and opened the doors of the Sacred Tent as usual. He was afraid to tell Eli about the vision that Yahweh had given him. 
But Eli called him and said, “Samuel, my son!” Samuel answered, “I am here!” 
Eli asked him, “What was it that Yahweh told you? Do not conceal it! I want God to punish you severely if you do not tell me everything that he said to you.” 
So Samuel told him everything. He did not refuse to tell him anything. Then Eli said, “He is Yahweh. I am willing for him to do what he thinks is best.” 
As Samuel grew up, Yahweh helped him, and caused everything to ◄come true/happen► that Samuel predicted. 
So all the people of Israel, from the northern end of the country to the southern end, realized that Samuel was truly a prophet of Yahweh. 
Yahweh continued to appear to Samuel in Shiloh and give messages to him. 
