EXODUS.
Chapter 36.
“Bezalel and Oholiab, and all the other men to whom Yahweh has given ability and enabled them to understand how to do all the work to make the Sacred Tent, must make everything just as Yahweh has commanded.” 
So Moses/I summoned Bezalel and Oholiab and all the other skilled men to whom Yahweh had given special ability and who wanted to do some of the work. 
Moses/I gave them all the things that the people had brought as offerings to Yahweh for making the Sacred Tent. But the people continued bringing more things every morning. 
As a result, the skilled men who were doing various things to make the Sacred Tent came to Moses/me 
and said, “The people are bringing more than we need to do the work that Yahweh has commanded us!” 
So Moses/I gave the skilled men this message that was proclaimed throughout the camp: “No one should bring anything more as an offering to make the Sacred Tent!” When the people heard that, they did not bring anything more. 
What they had already brought was enough to do all the work. In fact, it was more than was needed! 
All the most skilled men among the workmen made the Sacred Tent. They made it from ten strips of fine linen, and carefully embroidered it using blue, purple, and red yarn/thread to make figures that resembled the winged creatures. 
Each strip was ◄14 yards/twelve meters► long and ◄2 yards/1.8 meters► wide. 
They sewed five strips together to make one set, and they sewed the other five strips together to make the other set. 
For each set, they made loops of blue cloth and fastened them on the outer edge of the strip, at the end of each set. 
They put 50 loops on the edge of the first set, and 50 loops on the edge of the second set. 
They made 50 gold clasps/fasteners, to fasten both of the sets together. In that way, the inside of the Sacred Tent was as though it was one piece. 
They made a cover for the Sacred Tent from eleven pieces of cloth made from goats’ hair. 
Each piece of cloth was ◄15 yards/13.5 meters► long and ◄2 yards/1.8 meters► wide. 
They sewed five of these pieces of cloth together to make one set, and they sewed the other six pieces of cloth together to make another set. 
They made 100 loops of blue cloth. They fastened 50 of them to the outer edge of the one set and they fastened 50 to the outer edge of the other set. 
They made 50 bronze clasps/fasteners and joined the two sets together with them. In that way it formed one cover. 
They made two more covers for the Sacred Tent. They made one from rams’ skins that had been ◄tanned/dyed red►, and they made the top cover from goatskin leather. 
They made 48 frames from acacia wood and set them up to support the covers for the Sacred Tent. 
Each frame was ◄15 feet/4.5 meters► long and ◄27 in./66 cm.► wide. 
They made two projections at the bottom of each frame. These were for fastening the frames to the bases underneath them. Each frame had these projections. 
The skilled workmen made twenty frames for the south side of the Sacred Tent. 
They made 40 silver bases to go underneath them. Two bases went under each frame. The projections on each frame fit into these bases. 
Similarly, they made 20 frames for the north side of the Sacred Tent. 
They made 40 silver bases for them also, with two bases for under each frame. 
For the rear of the Sacred Tent, on the west side, they made six frames. 
They also made two extra frames, one for each corner of the rear of the Sacred Tent, to provide extra support. 
The two corner frames were joined from the bottom to the top (OR, joined at both the bottom and the top). At the top of each of the two corner frames they fastened a gold ring for holding the crossbar. 
In that way, for the rear of the Sacred Tent there were eight frames, and there were 16 bases, two bases under each frame. 
The workmen made 15 crossbars from acacia wood. 
Five of them were for the frames on the north side of the Sacred Tent, five for the south side, and five for the frames at the rear of the Sacred Tent, the west side. 
The crossbars on the north, south, and west sides of the Sacred Tent were fastened to the middle of the frames. The two long crossbars extended from one end of the Sacred Tent to the other, and the crossbar on the west side extended from one side of the Sacred Tent to the other side. 
The workmen covered the frames with gold and fastened gold rings to the poles. The crossbars were put into the rings. The crossbars were also covered with gold. 
They made a curtain from fine white linen. Skilled craftsmen embroidered it with blue, purple, and red yarn/thread, making designs that resembled the winged creatures. 
They suspended/hung the curtain from four posts that were made from acacia wood and covered with gold. They set each post in a silver base. 
They made a curtain to cover the entrance of the Sacred Tent. They made it from fine linen, and a skilled weaver embroidered it with blue, purple, and red yarn/thread. 
To support this curtain, they also made five posts from acacia wood and fastened gold clasps/fasteners to them. They completely covered the posts with gold. They also made a bronze base for each of those posts. 
