REVELATION.
Chapter 5.
I saw that there was a scroll in the right hand of the one who was sitting on the throne. The scroll was written on its outside as well as on its inside, and it was sealed {Someone had written on the outside as well as on the inside of the scroll and sealed it} with seven seals. 
I saw a strong angel who was announcing in a loud voice, “◄The person who is worthy to break the seals of the scroll and then to open it should come to do it!/Who is worthy to break the seals of the scroll and then to open it?►” RHQ 
But no created being in heaven nor any created being on the earth nor any created being under the earth was able to open the scroll and see what was written on it. 
I cried loudly because there was no one worthy to do that. 
But one of the elders said to me, “Do not cry any longer! Look, the one who is called the Lion from the tribe of Judah, the Messiah who is the descendant of King David, has overcome Satan! As a result, he is worthy to break the seven seals on the scroll and open it!” 
Then I saw Jesus, the one who is like a MET sacrificial lamb, standing there. He stood near the throne, in the midst of the four living creatures and the elders. It appeared that he had been killed {that people had killed him}, but he was alive again. He had seven horns on his head, and he had seven eyes that symbolize the Spirit of God who has all kinds of power (OR, who is also symbolized as seven spirits). He sends God’s Spirit out into all the earth. 
He came and took the scroll from the right hand of the one who sits on the throne. 
When he took the scroll, the four living creatures and the 24 elders ◄prostrated themselves/knelt down► before Jesus, the one who is like a lamb, to worship him. They each had a harp, and they had golden bowls full of incense that represents the prayers of God’s people. 
The living creatures and the elders sang a new song. They sang: You are worthy to receive the scroll and to open its seals, because you were killed, and because you redeemed/bought people for God from every tribe, language MTY, people-group, and nation with the blood that flowed from your body when you died. 
You have caused them to become a people over whom our God rules, and to become priests who serve him, and they will rule on MTY the earth. 
As I continued to look, I heard the voices of many angels around the throne and around the living creatures and the elders. There were millions of them, a crowd so large that no one could count them. 
They were singing in a loud voice: “The one who is like a lamb was killed {whom his enemies killed} but he became alive again. He is worthy that all created beings acknowledge that he is infinitely powerful, infinitely rich, infinitely wise, and infinitely strong! He is worthy of being honored and praised by all created beings!” 
I also heard every creature that is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the ocean, every creature in all those places, saying (OR, singing): “We must forever praise and honor the one who sits on the throne and the one who is like a lamb, May they reign with complete power forever!” 
The four living creatures said, “◄Amen!/May it be so!►” Then the elders prostrated themselves and worshipped God and Jesus. 
