Isaiah.
Chapter 60.
Stand up and shine, for your light has come; the glory of the Lord has risen on you. 
Even though darkness covers the earth, and deep darkness covers the people, the Lord has risen to shine on you, and his glory appears over you. 
Nations will come to your light, and kings will come to the brightness of your shining dawn. 
Look all around you, and see everyone gathering and coming to you—your sons returning from far away, your young daughters being carried on the hip. 
Then you will see and shine brilliantly, your heart will beat wildly for joy, for the riches that cross the sea, the wealth of the nations, will be brought to you. 
Long caravans of camels will cover the land, young camels of Midian and Ephah. All the people of Sheba will come to you carrying gold and frankincense, shouting praises to the Lord. 
All the flocks of Kedar will be brought to you, the rams of Nebaioth will be placed at your disposal. I will accept them as they are sacrificed on my altar, and I will glorify the Temple where I'm honored. 
What are these flying like a cloud, flying like pigeons returning to their roost? 
Coming from the islands that trust in me, these are ships led by those of Tarshish, bringing your children home from far away, carrying with them silver and gold. They come to honor of the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, for he has made you glorious. 
Foreigners will rebuild your walls, and their kings will work for you. Even though I did hit you when I was angry with you, now I will be kind and merciful to you. 
Your gates will always be kept open. They won't ever be shut, day or night, so the wealth of the nations can be brought to you, with their kings being led along in a procession. 
Any nation or kingdom that does not serve you will be completely destroyed. 
The glory of Lebanon will come to you: cedars, acacias, and myrtle trees, to make my Temple beautiful and to honor the place I choose to live. 
The children of those who persecuted you will come and bow before you; everyone who looked down on you will bow down at your feet and will call you the City of the Lord, Zion of the Holy One of Israel. 
Once you were abandoned and despised, somewhere people didn't go, but now I will make you a place to be proud of forever, a joy to every generation. 
Nations will provide you with what you need, kings will take care of you as if you were their own children. You will know that I, the Lord, am your Savior and Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob. 
I will bring you gold instead of bronze, silver instead of iron, bronze instead of wood, and iron instead of stone. I will appoint Peace as your watchman, and Goodness as your leader. 
There won't be any more violence in your land, no more devastation and destruction within your borders. You will call your walls Salvation, and your gates Praise. 
You won't need the light of the sun during the day, or the light of the moon at night, for the Lord your God will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory. 
Your sun will never set, and your moon will never wane, for the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your time of mourning will end. 
All your people will be good, and they will own the land forever. They are the shoot I have planted with my hands, and they will reveal my glory. 
The smallest of your families will increase to a thousand, and the most insignificant will become a great nation. I am the Lord; at the right time I will do this quickly. 
