Ezekiel.
Chapter 25.
A message from the Lord came to me, saying, 
“Son of man, face towards the Ammonites and prophesy against them. 
Tell the Ammonites to listen to the message from the Lord God, for this is what the Lord God says: Because you said, ‘Oh good!’ when my sanctuary was made unclean, when the country of Israel was turned into a wasteland, and when the people of Judah were taken into exile, 
this is why I will make you subject to the people of the East. They will make camp and set up their tents right where you live. They will eat your fruit and drink your milk. 
I will make Rabbah a camel pasture, and Ammon a sheep-pen. Then you will know that I am the Lord. 
For this is what the Lord God says: Because you clapped your hands and stamped your feet in a celebration of hate over what happened to Israel, 
this is why I will reach out and attack you, and hand you over to be looted by other nations. I will wipe you out so completely that you will no longer exist as a nation. I will destroy you, and then you will know that I am the Lord. 
This is what the Lord God says: Because the people of Moab and Seir said, ‘Look, the people of Judah are just like everybody else,’ 
that's why I will open Moab's border to attack, including Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim, the country's famous cities. 
I will hand Moab over to the people of the East for them to rule so that will no longer exist as a nation just like the Ammonites. 
This is how I'm going to punish the Moabites, and they will know that I am the Lord. 
This is what the Lord God says: Because Edom committed serious sins by taking vicious revenge on the people of Judah, 
this is why the Lord God says: I will reach out to attack Edom and destroy all its people and animals. I will turn it into a wasteland. All the way from Teman in the north to Dedan in the south they will die by the sword. 
I will take revenge on the Edomites through my people Israel. They will deal with the Edomites so that they experience my anger. Then they will know what my vengeance is like, declares the Lord God. 
This is what the Lord God says: Because the Philistines in their hatred repeatedly took revenge on Judah, trying to destroy the people, 
this is why the Lord God says: Watch out! I'm going to reach out to attack the Philistines, and I will wipe out the Kerethites and destroy those who are left along the coast. 
My revenge against them will be severe as I punish them in my anger. Then they will know that I am the Lord, when they experience my anger.” 
