Exodus.
Chapter 26.
Make ten curtains for the Tabernacle of finely-spun linen, using blue, purple, and crimson threads. Have them embroidered with cherubim by someone who is skilled. 
Each curtain is to measure twenty-eight cubits long by four cubits wide, and all the curtains are to be the same size. 
Join five of the curtains together, and then do the same to the other five. 
Use blue material to make loops on the edge of the last curtain of both sets. 
Make fifty loops on one curtain and fifty loops on the last curtain of the second set, lining up the loops with each another. 
Then make fifty gold clips and join the curtains together with the clips, so that the Tabernacle will be a single structure. 
Make eleven curtains of goat hair as a tent to cover the Tabernacle. 
Each of the eleven curtains is to be the same size—thirty cubits long by four cubits wide. 
Join five of the curtains together as one set and the other six as another set. Then fold the sixth curtain in two at the front of the tent. 
Make fifty loops on the edge of the last curtain in the first set, and fifty loops along the edge of the last curtain in the second set. 
Make fifty bronze clips and put them in the loops to join the tent together as a single cover. 
The extra half-curtain of this tent covering will be left to hang over the back of the Tabernacle. 
The tent curtains will be a cubit longer on every side, and the extra length will hang over the sides of the Tabernacle so it is all covered. 
Make a covering for the goat hair tent from tanned ram skins, and place an extra covering of fine leather over that. 
Make an upright framework of acacia wood for the Tabernacle. 
Each frame is to be ten cubits long by one and a half cubits wide. 
Each frame will have two pegs so the frames can be connected to each other. Make all the frames of the Tabernacle like this. 
Make twenty frames for the south side of the Tabernacle. 
Make forty silver stands as supports for the twenty frames using two stands per frame, one under every frame peg. 
Similarly for the north side of the Tabernacle, make twenty frames 
and forty silver stands, two stands per frame. 
Make six frames for the back (west side) of the Tabernacle, 
along with two frames for its two back corners. 
Join these corner frames at the bottom and at the top near to the first ring. This is how you are to make the two corner frames. 
In total there will be eight frames and sixteen silver stands, two under each frame. 
Make five crossbars of acacia wood to hold together the frames on the south side of the Tabernacle, 
five for those on the north, and five for those at the back of the Tabernacle, to the west. 
The central crossbar which is placed halfway up the frames will run from one end to the other. 
Cover the frames with gold, and make gold rings to hold the crossbars in place. Cover the crossbars with gold too. 
Assemble the Tabernacle following to the design you were shown on the mountain. 
Make a veil out of blue, purple, and crimson thread, and finely-spun linen, embroidered with cherubim by someone who is skilled. 
Using gold hooks hang it from four posts of acacia wood covered with gold, held up by four silver stands. 
Place the veil under the clips and take the Ark of the Testimony inside behind the veil. The veil will separate the Holy Place from the Most Holy Place. 
Put the atonement cover on the Ark of the Testimony in the Most Holy Place. 
Place the table outside the veil on the north side of the Tabernacle and put the lampstand opposite it on the south side. 
Make a screen for the entrance to the tent using blue, purple, and crimson thread, and finely-spun linen. Have it embroidered. 
Make five posts of acacia wood with gold hooks to hang the screen, and cast five bronze stands to hold them. 
