Galatians.
Chapter 5.
Christ set us free so we could have real freedom. So stand firm and don't get burdened down again by a yoke of slavery. 
Let me, Paul, tell you bluntly: if you rely on the way of circumcision, Christ will be of absolutely no benefit to you. 
Let me repeat: every man who is circumcised has to keep the whole of the law. 
Those of you who think you can be made right by the law are cut off from Christ—you have abandoned grace. 
For through the Spirit we trust and wait in hope to be made right. 
For in Christ Jesus being circumcised or uncircumcised doesn't achieve anything; it's only trust working through love that matters. 
You were doing so well! Who got in the way and prevented you from being convinced by the truth? 
This “persuasion” certainly isn't from the one who calls you. 
You only need a little bit of yeast to raise the whole batch of dough. 
I'm confident in the Lord that you won't change the way you think, and that the one who is confusing you will face the consequences, whoever he is. 
As for me, brothers and sisters, if I were still advocating circumcision—why am I still persecuted? If that was true, it would remove the issue of the cross that offends people so much. 
If only those who are causing you trouble would go even further than circumcision and castrate themselves! 
You, my brothers and sisters, were called to freedom! Just don't use your freedom as an excuse to indulge your sinful human nature—instead serve one another in love. 
For the whole law is summed up in this one command, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” 
But if you attack and tear into one other, watch out that you don't completely destroy yourselves! 
My advice is to walk by the Spirit. Don't satisfy the desires of your sinful human nature. 
For the desires of the sinful nature are opposed to the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are opposed to the sinful nature. They fight one another, so you don't do what you want to do. 
But if the Spirit leads you, you're not under the law. 
It's clear what the sinful human nature produces: sexual immorality, indecency, sensuality, 
idolatry, sorcery, hatred, rivalry, jealousy, anger, selfish ambition, dissension, heresy, 
envy, drunkenness, feasting, and similar things. As I warned you before so I warn you again: nobody who behaves like this will inherit the kingdom of God. 
But the Spirit produces fruit such as love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, trust, 
gentleness, self-control—and there's no law against these kinds of things! 
Those who belong to Christ Jesus have nailed to the cross their sinful human nature, together with all their sinful passions and desires. 
If we live in the Spirit we should also walk in the Spirit. 
Let's not become boastful, or irritate and envy one another. 
