1 Corinthians.
Chapter 16.
Now about “collecting money for fellow-believers.” I'm giving you the same instructions for you to follow as I did to the churches in Galatia. 
On the first day of the week everybody should set aside some money you've earned. I don't want there to be any collections to have to be made when I'm with you. 
When I get there I will write recommendation letters for whoever you choose, and they will take your donation to Jerusalem. 
If it works out for me to go too, they can come with me. 
After I've been to Macedonia, I plan to come and visit you. I pass that way through Macedonia 
and I may stay with you for a while, perhaps spend the winter, and then you can send me on my way to wherever I'm headed. 
This time I don't want to come and see you for just a short time. I hope I can stay for a while with you, if that's what the Lord permits. 
However, I will stay on at Ephesus until Pentecost, 
because a tremendous door of opportunity has opened up for me there, though there are plenty who oppose me. 
Now if Timothy arrives, make sure that he has nothing to fear by being with you, for he's working for the Lord just as I am. 
Don't let anyone look down on him. Cheerfully send him on his way so he can come and see me—the brothers and sisters and I are waiting for him. 
As for our brother Apollos: I urged him to go and see you together with the other believers, but he wasn't willing to go at the moment. He'll come and visit when he gets the chance. 
Stay alert. Stand firm in your trust in God. Take courage. Be strong. 
Whatever you do, do it in love. 
You know that Stephanas and his family were among the first converts in Achaia, and they dedicated themselves to helping God's people. I'm pleading with you, my brothers and sisters, 
to respect their leadership, and everyone who helps the work with such dedication. 
I'm delighted that Stephanas, Fortunatas, and Achaicus have arrived here, for they did what you weren't able to. 
They have been a great source of encouragement to me, and to you. People like that deserve your recognition. 
The churches of Asia send their greetings. Aquila and Priscilla, along with the church that meets in their home, send their best wishes. 
All the brothers and sisters here send their greetings. Greet one another affectionately. 
I Paul write this greeting with my own hand. 
Anyone who doesn't love the Lord should be excluded from the church. Come Lord! 
May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
My love to all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen. 
