Isaiah.
Chapter 43.
But now this is what the Lord says to Jacob, the one who created you; to Israel, the one who formed you: “Don't be afraid! I have saved you! I have called you by name; you are mine! 
When you walk through the water, I will be with you; and when you go through the rivers, they won't flood over you. When you walk through fire, you will not be burned; the flames will not set you on fire. 
For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I gave Egypt to pay for your freedom; I traded Ethiopia and Seba for you. 
Because you are so valuable to me, because I honor you, and because I love you, I give people in exchange for you, nations in exchange for your lives. 
Don't be afraid, for I am with you! I will bring you and your children from the east and the west, and gather you together. 
I will tell the north, ‘Hand them over!’ and the south, ‘Don't stop them!’ Bring my sons back from far away and my daughters from distant lands. 
Bring back everyone who bears my name, those I created for my honor, those I formed and made. 
Bring back those who have eyes but are blind, those who have ears but are deaf. 
Have all the nations gather together! Have all the peoples assemble! Who among them could have said this, and predict what was going to happen? Have them bring their witnesses to prove that they're right. Then have them listen, and say, ‘It's true!’ 
However, you are my witnesses, the Lord declares, and my chosen servant, so that you can think about it, and believe me and understand that I am God. No god preceded me, and none will come after me. 
I, yes I am the Lord, and there is no Savior apart from me. 
I predicted what was going to happen, then I saved you, then I announced it—there was no foreign god among you that did this. You are my witnesses that I am God, declares the Lord. 
I am God from the beginning. No one can snatch anybody from my hand. No one can reverse what I do. 
This is what the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, says: For your sake I will send attackers against Babylon and bring them down. All the Babylonians will be like fugitives, escaping in the ships they're so proud of. 
I am the Lord, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, and your King. 
This is what the Lord says, the one who makes a way through the sea, a path through the mighty waters; 
the one who brought out a great army with it horses and chariots and lay them down, never to rise again, snuffed out like a burning wick. 
But don't dwell on the past; don't concentrate on what happened back then. 
Just look at something new I'm going to do now! In fact it's started already. Can't you see it? Yes, I'm making a way through the wilderness, rivers in the desert! 
The wild animals will be grateful to me, the jackals and the owls, because I'm providing water in the wilderness, rivers in the desert, so my people, my chosen people, can drink. 
I made this people for myself so that through their praise for me they could make me known. 
But you haven't called on me for help, Jacob. You've grown tired of me, Israel. 
You haven't brought me sheep for burnt offerings; you haven't honored me with your sacrifices. I haven't burdened you by asking for grain offerings; I haven't tired you out by demanding incense. 
You haven't used your money to buy scented calamus; you have not pleased me with the fat of your sacrifices. Instead you have burdened me with your sins, and tired me out with your guilt. 
I, yes I am the God who wipes out your sins because of who I am, and who doesn't remember your sins any more. 
Remind me of the evidence so we can come to a decision together! Present your case to prove that you're right! 
Your very first father sinned, and your leaders rebelled against me. 
So I treated the priests of the sanctuary with contempt, and I handed Jacob over to be destroyed, and Israel to be scorned.” 
