2 Samuel.
Chapter 7.
By now the king was comfortable in his palace and the Lord had given him peace from all the enemy nations around him. 
So he said to Nathan the prophet, “Look at me—I live in a palace made of cedar, but the Ark of God is still in a tent.” 
“Go ahead, do whatever you want, for the Lord is with you,” Nathan told the king. 
But that night the Lord spoke to Nathan and told him, 
“Go and tell my servant David, This is what the Lord says: Should you be the one to build a house for me to live in? 
For I have never lived in a house, from the time I led the Israelites out of Egypt up till now. I have always moved from place to place, living in a tent and a Tabernacle. 
But in all those travels with all of Israel did I ever ask any Israelite leader I'd ordered to take care of my people, ‘Why haven't you built a cedar house for me?’ 
So then, tell my servant David this is what the Lord Almighty says. It was me who took you from the fields, from looking after sheep, to become a leader of my people Israel. 
I have been with you wherever you've gone. I have destroyed all your enemies right in front of you, and I will make your reputation as great as the most famous people on earth. 
I will choose a place for my people Israel. I will settle them there and they won't be disturbed anymore. Evil people won't persecute them as they used to, 
from the time I placed judges in charge of my people. I will defeat all of your enemies. Also I want to make it clear that I the Lord will build a house for you. 
For when you come to the end of your life and join your ancestors in death, I will bring to power one of your descendants, one of your sons, and make sure his kingdom is successful. 
He will be the one to build me a house, and I will make sure his kingdom lasts forever. 
I will be a father to him, and he will be a son to me. If he does wrong, I will discipline him with the rod like people do, like a parent punishing a child. 
But I will never take away my kindness and love from him, as I did in the case of Saul who I removed before you. 
Your house and your kingdom will last forever; your dynasty will be secure forever.” 
This is what Nathan explained to David—everything he was told in this divine revelation. 
Then King David went and sat down in the presence of the Lord. He prayed, “Who am I, Lord God, and what is significant about my family, that you have brought me to this place? 
God, you talk as if this was a small thing in your eyes, and you also have spoken about the future of my house, my family dynasty. Is this your usual way of dealing with human beings, Lord God? 
What more can I, David, tell you? You know exactly what your servant is like, Lord God. 
You're doing all this for me and you have explained it to me, your servant, and because of your promise and because it's what you want to do. 
How great you are, Lord God! There really is no-one like you; there is no other God, only you. We have never heard about anyone else. 
Who else is as fortunate as your people Israel? Who else on earth did God go and redeem to make his own people? You gained a wonderful reputation for yourself by all the tremendous, amazing things you did in driving out other nations and their gods before your people as you redeemed them from Egypt. 
You made your people Israel your own forever, and you, Lord, have become their God. 
So now, Lord God, please ensure that what you have said about me and my house happens, and is confirmed forever. Please do as you have promised, 
and may your true nature be honored forever, with people declaring, ‘The Lord Almighty is Israel's God!’ May the house of your servant David continue to be there in your presence. 
Lord Almighty, God of Israel, you have revealed this to me, your servant, telling me, ‘I will build a house for you.’ That's why your servant has had the courage to pray this prayer to you. 
Lord Almighty, you are God! Your words are truth, and you are the one who has promised these good things to your servant. 
So now, please bless your servant's house that it may continue in your presence forever. For you have spoken, Lord God, and with your blessing the house of your servant will be blessed forever.” 
