Numbers.
Chapter 30.
Moses told the tribal leaders of Israel, “This is what the Lord commands: 
If a man makes a solemn promise to the Lord, or pledges to do something by swearing an oath, he must not break his promise. He must do everything he said he would. 
If a woman who's young and still living in her father's house makes a solemn promise to the Lord or pledges to do something by swearing an oath 
and her father finds out about her promise or pledge but doesn't say anything to her, all the promises or pledges she has sworn to do will stand. 
But if her father disallows them as soon as he finds out, then none of her promises or pledges remain valid. The Lord will release her from keeping them because her father has disallowed them. 
If a woman marries after having made a solemn promise or sworn an oath without thinking 
and her husband finds out about it but doesn't say anything to her right away, all the promises or pledges she has sworn to do will stand. 
But if her husband disallows them when he finds out about it, then none of her promises or oaths remain valid and the Lord will release her from keeping them. 
Every solemn promise made by a widow or a woman who is divorced must be kept. 
If a woman living with her husband makes a solemn promise to the Lord or pledges to do something by swearing an oath, 
and her husband finds out about her promise or pledge but doesn't say anything to her and doesn't disallow them, then none of her promises or pledges remain valid. 
But if her husband disallows them as soon as he finds out about it, then none of her promises or oaths remain valid. The Lord will release her from keeping them because her husband has disallowed them. 
Her husband may also confirm or disallow any solemn promise or pledge the woman may make for self-denial. 
But if her husband doesn't ever say a word to her about it, then he is assumed to have confirmed all the solemn promises and pledges she has made. 
However, if he disallows them some time later after finding out about them, then he will bear the responsibility for her breaking them.” 
These are the regulations that the Lord gave to Moses regarding the relationship between a man and his wife, and between a father and a daughter who is young and still living at home. 
