Exodus.
Chapter 18.
Moses' father-in-law Jethro, the priest of Midian, heard about everything God had done for Moses and his people the Israelites, and how the Lord had led them out of Egypt. 
When Moses had sent home his wife Zipporah, his father-in-law Jethro had welcomed her, 
together with her two sons. One son was named Gershom, for Moses had said, “I have been a foreigner in a foreign land.” 
The other son was named Eliezer, because Moses had said, “The God of my father was my helper, and saved me from death at Pharaoh's hand.” 
Moses' father-in-law Jethro, together with Moses' wife and sons, came to see him in the desert at the camp near the mountain of God. 
Moses was told beforehand, “I, your father-in-law Jethro, am coming to see you together with your wife and her two sons.” 
Moses went out to meet his father-in-law and bowed down and kissed him. They asked each other how they were and then went into the tent. 
Moses told his father-in-law about everything the Lord had done to Pharaoh and the Egyptians on behalf of the Israelites, about all the troubles they had experienced on the way, and about how the Lord had saved them. 
Jethro was delighted to hear about all the good things the Lord had done for Israel when he'd saved them from the Egyptians. 
Jethro announced, “May the Lord be blessed, who saved you from the Egyptians and from Pharaoh. 
This is so convincing to me that the Lord is greater than all other gods, for he saved the people from the Egyptians when they acted so arrogantly towards the Israelites.” 
Then Jethro presented a burnt offering and sacrifices to God, and Aaron came with all the elders of Israel to eat a meal with him in God's presence. 
The following day Moses sat as a judge for the people, and they presented their cases to him from morning to evening. 
When his father-in-law saw everything that Moses was doing for the people, he asked, “What's all this you're doing for the people? Why are you sitting alone as judge, with everyone presenting their cases to you from morning to evening?” 
“Because the people come to me to ask God for his decision,” Moses replied. 
“When they argue over something, the case is brought before me to decide between one them, and I explain to them the God's laws and regulations.” 
Jethro told him, “What you're doing is not the best. 
You, and these people who come to you, are all going to wear yourselves out, because the workload is far too heavy. You can't handle it alone. 
So please listen to me. I'm going to give you some advice, and God will be with you. Yes, you must continue to be the people's representative before God, and take their cases to him. 
Go on teaching them the laws and regulations. Show them how to live and the work they are to do. 
But now you should choose men who are competent from among the people, men who respect God and who are trustworthy and not corrupt. Put them in charge of the people as leaders of thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens. 
These men are to judge the people on a continuing basis. Major issues they can bring to you, but they can decide all the small matters themselves. In this way your burden will be made lighter as they share it with you. 
If you follow my advice, and if it's what God tells you to do, then you will be able to survive, and all these people can go home satisfied that their cases have been heard.” 
Moses listened to what his father-in-law said and followed all his advice. 
So Moses chose competent men from all of Israel and put them in charge of the people as leaders of thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens. 
They acted as judges for the people on a continuing basis. They brought the difficult cases to Moses, but they would judge the small matters themselves. 
Then Moses sent Jethro on his way, and he went back to his own country. 
