Proverbs.
Chapter 27.
Don't boast about what you're going to do tomorrow, because you don't know what the day may bring. 
Let others praise you, not you yourself; someone else, not you personally. 
Stone may be heavy, and sand may weigh a lot, but the annoyance caused by stupid people is the biggest burden of all. 
Fury may be fierce and cruel, anger may be a destructive flood, but who can withstand jealousy? 
Open criticism is better than hidden love. 
A friend's honest comments may hurt you, but an enemy's kisses are over the top. 
If you're full up, you can't face honey; but if you're starving, even bitter food tastes sweet. 
Having to leave home is like a bird having to leave its nest. 
Perfume and scented oils make you feel happy, but good advice from a friend is even better. 
Don't give up on your friends or your family's friends. Don't go to a relative's house when you've got trouble. A friend nearby is more useful than a relative far away. 
My son, make me happy by being wise, so I can respond to anyone who criticizes me. 
If you're sensible you see danger coming and get out of the way; but stupid people just keep going and suffer the consequences. 
If someone guarantees a stranger's debt with their cloak, be sure to take it! Make sure you have whatever is pledged to an immoral woman! 
If when you get up every morning you shout a loud hello to your neighbors, they will see that as a curse! 
An argumentative wife is as irritating as constant dripping on a rainy day. 
Trying to stop her is like trying to make the wind stop or trying to hold olive oil in your hand. 
An iron blade is sharpened with an iron tool, and one person's mind is sharpened by another's. 
Those who care for a fig tree eat its fruit, and those who care for their master are rewarded. 
Just as water reflects your face, your mind reflects who you really are. 
In the same way that the grave and destruction are never satisfied, human desire is never satisfied. 
Just as a crucible tests silver, and a furnace tests gold, people are tested by the praise they receive. 
Even if you ground stupid people in a mortar, crushing them like grain with the pestle, you can't get rid of stupidity from them. 
You should know the condition of your flocks really well and take good care of your herds, 
for wealth doesn't last forever—is a crown passed down through all generations? 
Once the hay is cut, and the new growth begins, and fodder from the mountains is gathered, 
and the lambs have provided you wool to make clothing, and the sale of goats have paid for a field, 
there'll be enough milk from your goats to feed you, your family, and your servant girls. 
