Proverbs.
Chapter 4.
Listen, sons, to a father's instruction; pay attention and discover what makes sense, 
for what I am passing on to you is reliable. Don't reject my teachings. 
When I was a son with my father—a tender young boy, my mother's only child— 
he was the one who taught me. He told me, “Pay attention to the words I say and keep them in mind; do what I tell you and you will live. 
Get wisdom, find out what makes sense. Don't forget my words or reject them. 
Don't give up on wisdom for she will keep you safe. Love wisdom and she will protect you. 
The first thing in becoming wise is to get wisdom! Whatever else you gain, gain insight. 
Treasure wisdom, and she will praise you; embrace her, and she will honor you. 
She will place on your head a wreath of grace; she will present to you a crown of glory.” 
Listen, my son, if you accept what I tell you, then you will live a long life. 
I have explained to you the way of wisdom; I have guided you along the right paths. 
Nothing will block your way when you walk, you won't stumble when you run. 
Hold on to these instructions—don't let them go. Protect them, for they are life's foundation. 
Don't go the way of the wicked or follow the example of those who do evil. 
Avoid that way completely. Don't go there! Turn away, and walk on. 
Evil people won't rest until they've done something wrong; they can't sleep unless they've tripped someone up. 
For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence. 
The way of life of the good is like the light of the sunrise, glowing brighter and brighter until the full light of day shines out. 
But the way of life of the wicked is like complete darkness; they don't even know what they're tripping over. 
My son, pay attention to what I tell you; listen to the words I'm saying. 
Don't lose sight of them; think about them deeply, 
for they are life to anyone who finds them, and make the whole body healthy. 
Most of all, protect your mind, for everything in life flows from it. 
Don't ever lie, and don't say anything dishonest. 
Focus on what's ahead of you; look at what's in front of you. 
Pay attention to the path you decide to follow, and you'll be safe wherever you go. 
Don't deviate to the right or the left, and turn away from evil. 
