Genesis.
Chapter 14.
At that time Amraphel was king of Shinar, and he allied himself with Arioch, king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer, king of Elam, and Tidal, king of Goiim. 
They attacked Bera, king of Sodom, Birsha, king of Gomorrah, Shinab, king of Admah, Shemeber, king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (otherwise known as Zoar). 
All these in the second group joined forces in the Valley of Siddim (the Dead Sea valley). 
They had been under the rule of Chedorlaomer for twelve years, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled against him. 
In the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer invaded, along with the kings in his alliance. They defeated the Rephaites in Ashteroth-karnaim, the Zuzites in Ham, the Emites in Shaveh-kiriathaim, 
and the Horites in their hill country of Seir, all the way to El-paran, near the desert. 
Then they swung back through and attacked En-mishpat (otherwise known as Kadesh) and conquered the whole country belonging to the Amalekites, as well as the Amorites who lived in Hazazon-tamar. 
Then the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Admah, the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (otherwise known as Zoar) marched out and prepared for battle in the Valley of Siddim. 
They fought Chedorlaomer, king of Elam, Tidal, king of Goiim, Amraphel, king of Shinar, and Arioch, king of Ellasar—four kings on one side against five on the other. 
There were many tar pits in the Valley of Siddim, and as the defeated kings of Sodom and Gomorrah ran away, some of their men fell into them while the rest ran to the hills. 
The invaders took from Sodom and Gomorrah all their possessions and food and left. 
They also captured Lot, Abram's nephew, and his possessions, because he was living in Sodom. 
But one of those captured escaped and went and told Abram the Hebrew what had happened. Abram was living by the oaks of Mamre the Amorite, whose brothers were Eshcol and Aner. All of them were Abram's allies. 
When Abram found out that his nephew had been captured, he called together 318 fighting men who had been born in his household and chased after them all the way to Dan. 
There he divided his men into groups and attacked at night, defeating the enemy and chasing them as far as Hobah, north of Damascus. 
Abram recovered all that had been taken, including Lot and his possessions, and also brought back the women and others who had been captured. 
When Abram returned after defeating Chedorlaomer and his allies, the king of Sodom came out to meet him at the Valley of Shaveh (or Valley of the King). 
Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought out bread and wine. He was a priest of the Most High God. 
He blessed Abram, telling him, “May Abram be blessed by the Most High God, Creator of heaven and earth. 
May the Most High God be praised, who handed your enemies over to you.” Then Abram gave Melchizedek one tenth of everything. 
The king of Sodom told Abram, “Let me have the people back, and you can keep everything else for yourself.” 
But Abram replied to the king of Sodom, “I raise my hand, making a solemn promise to the Lord, the Most High God, Creator of heaven and earth, 
that I refuse to take anything belonging to you, not a single thread or a sandal strap. Otherwise you might claim, ‘It was me who made Abram rich!’ 
I won't take anything except what my men have eaten, and the share for those who accompanied me—Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre. Let them have their share.” 
