Proverbs.
Chapter 14.
Every wise woman builds her house, but the stupid woman tears it down with her own hands. 
Those who live right respect the Lord, but those who live dishonestly despise him. 
What stupid people say punishes their pride, but what wise people say will protect them. 
Without oxen, the manger is empty, but a good harvest comes through the ox's strength. 
A trustworthy witness doesn't lie, but a false witness is deceptive. 
It's pointless for a scoffer to look for wisdom, but knowledge comes easily to someone who understands. 
Stay away from stupid people—you won't learn anything from them. 
Sensible people use their wisdom to decide where they're going, but the foolishness of stupid people is treacherous. 
Stupid people laugh at sin, but good people want forgiveness. 
The individual's mind alone knows its sadnesses, and no one else can share its happiness. 
The house of wicked people will be destroyed, but the tent of good people will prosper. 
There's a way that seems to be right, but in the end it's the way of death. 
Even when you're laughing you can be feeling sad—joy can end in grief. 
Disloyal people are repaid for what they do, and good people are rewarded. 
Stupid people believe whatever they're told, but sensible people think about what they're doing. 
Wise people are careful and avoid evil, but stupid people are confidently reckless. 
Quick-tempered people act foolishly, while people who make evil plans are hated. 
The inheritance of stupid people is stupidity, but sensible people are rewarded with knowledge. 
Evil people bow down before good people, and the wicked bow down at the doors of those who do right. 
The poor are hated even by their neighbors, while the rich have many friends. 
People who look down on their neighbors are sinners, but those who are kind to the poor are blessed. 
Aren't people who plan to do evil wrong? But those who plan to do good have trustworthy love and faithfulness. 
There's profit in hard work, but chatting just leads to poverty. 
The wise are rewarded with wealth, but stupid people are rewarded with stupidity. 
A truthful witness saves lives, but a false witness is treacherous. 
People who honor the Lord are completely safe; he will protect their children. 
Respecting the Lord is like a fountain of life, so you can avoid the snares of death. 
The glory of a king is the number of his subjects, for a ruler is nothing without them. 
If you're slow to get angry, you're very wise; but if you have a short fuse you glorify stupidity. 
A peaceful mind makes your body healthy, but jealousy makes your bones rot. 
Anyone who oppresses the poor insults their Maker, but anyone who is kind to the needy honors him. 
Wicked people are brought down by their own evil actions, but those who live right are confident even in death. 
Wisdom is at home in a mind that understands, but it's not found among stupid people. 
Doing right makes a nation successful, but sin is a disgrace to any people. 
A servant who acts wisely is appreciated by the king, but he gets angry with a servant who acts disgracefully. 
