PSALMS.
Chapter 107.
Thank the Lord, for he is good! His trustworthy love continues forever! 
Let those the Lord has saved say that they are saved; those he has rescued from the power of the enemy. 
He has gathered them together from distant lands, from the east and the west, the north and the south. 
They wandered in the desert wilderness, unable to find a way to a city where they could live. 
Hungry and thirsty, they became very discouraged. 
Then they cried out to the Lord to help them in their troubles, and he saved them from their suffering. 
He led them along a straight way to a city where they could live. 
Let them praise the Lord for his trustworthy love, and for all the wonderful things he does for people. 
For he gives drink to those who are thirsty, and food to those who are hungry. 
Some sat in complete darkness, prisoners of misery and bound with iron chains, 
for they had rebelled against what God had said; they had rejected the guidance of the Most High. 
So he humbled their pride with the troubles of life; they tripped over and no one was there to stop them falling. 
Then they called out to the Lord for help in their troubles, and he saved them from their suffering. 
He brought them out of complete darkness, he broke their chains to pieces. 
Let them praise the Lord for his trustworthy love, and for all the wonderful things he does for people. 
For he breaks down the bronze doors, and cuts through the iron bars. 
They were stupid because they rebelled; they suffered for their sins. 
They didn't want to eat; they were at death's door. 
Then they called out to the Lord for help in their troubles, and he saved them from their suffering. 
He gave the command and he healed them; he saved them from the grave. 
Let them praise the Lord for his trustworthy love, and for all the wonderful things he does for people. 
Let them present thank offerings and sing with joy about what he has done. 
Those who set sail in ships, crossing the seas to earn their living, 
they have seen the Lord's incredible power at work—the wonderful things he did in the deepest oceans. 
He only had to speak to cause a stormy wind that stirred up towering waves, 
lifting the ships high in the air and then plunging them down. The sailors were so terrified that their courage melted away. 
They staggered around, falling from side to side like drunks—all their seamanship skills were useless. 
Then they cried out to the Lord to help them in their troubles, and he saved them from their suffering. 
He calmed the storm, the waves were quiet. 
The sailors were so happy when it all calmed down, and he brought them to the harbor they wanted. 
Let them praise the Lord for his trustworthy love, and for all the wonderful things he does for people. 
Let them say how wonderful he is in front of the whole congregation and the elders. 
He dries up rivers and turns the land into a desert; the water springs stop flowing and the earth turns dry and dusty. 
Fruitful ground becomes a salty wasteland because of the wickedness of those living there. 
But he also turns around and makes pools of water in the desert, and makes water springs flow in a dry and dusty land. 
He brings hungry people to live there—a place they can build their cities. 
They sow their fields and plant their vineyards, producing a good harvest. 
He takes care of them, and their numbers increase dramatically—their cattle too! 
When they become few, brought low by oppression, misery, and sorrow, 
He pours out his contempt on their leaders, making them wander, lost in the wilderness. 
But he lifts the poor out of their troubles, and makes their families as big as flocks. 
Those who live right will observe what is happening and be glad, but the wicked will be silenced. 
Those who are wise will pay attention to all this, and thoughtfully reflect on the Lord's trustworthy love. 
