Job.
Chapter 15.
Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, 
“Would a wise man answer with such empty ‘knowledge’ that is just a lot of hot air? 
He wouldn't argue with unprofitable speeches using words that do no good. 
But you are doing away with the fear of God, and destroying communion with him. 
It's your sins that are doing the talking, and you are choosing deceptive words. 
Your own mouth is condemning you, not me; your own lips are testifying against you. 
Were you the very first person to be born? Were you born before the hills were created? 
Were you there listening in God's council? Does wisdom only belong to you? 
What do you know that we don't? What do you understand that we don't? 
We have among us old, gray-haired people much older than your father! 
Are the comforts God provides too little for you? Are God's gentle words not enough for you? 
Why do you let yourself be carried away by your emotions? 
Why do your eyes flash in anger that you turn against God and let yourself speak this way? 
Who can say they are clean? Which human being can say that they do what is right? 
Look, God doesn't even trust his angels—even the heavenly beings are not pure in his sight! 
How much less pure are those who are unclean and corrupt, drinking in sin like water! 
If you are ready to listen to me, I will show you. I will explain my insights. 
This is what wise men have said, confirmed by their ancestors, 
those who to whom alone the land was given before foreigners ever were there. 
The wicked writhe in pain all their lives, through all the years these oppressors survive. 
Terrifying sounds fill their ears; even when they think they're safe, the destroyer will attack them. 
They don't believe they will escape the darkness—they know a sword is waiting for them. 
They wander around looking for food, asking ‘Where is it?’ They know that their day of darkness is close at hand. 
Misery and torment overwhelm them like a king preparing for battle. 
They shake their fists in God's face, defiantly challenging the Almighty, 
insolently attacking him with their shields. 
They have become fat in their rebellion, their bellies bloated with fat. 
But their cities will become desolate; they will live in abandoned houses that are crumbling into ruins. 
They will lose their riches, their wealth will not endure, their possessions will not spread over the earth. 
They will not escape from the darkness. Like a tree whose shoots are burned up in a forest fire, the breath of God will blow him away. 
They should not trust in things that are worthless, for their reward will be worthless. 
This will be paid in full before their time has come. They are like tree branches that wither, 
like vines that lose their unripe grapes, or olive trees that lose their flowers. 
For those who reject God are barren, and fire will burn up the homes of those who love bribes. 
They plan trouble and produce evil, giving birth to deception.” 
