Numbers.
Chapter 33.
This is a record of the journeys made by the Israelites as they left Egypt in their tribal divisions led by Moses and Aaron. 
Moses recorded the different parts of their journey as instructed by the Lord. These are the journeys they made listed in order from where they started: 
The Israelites left Rameses on the fifteenth day of the first month, the day after the Passover. They set out in triumph as all the Egyptians watched. 
The Egyptians were burying all their firstborn that the Lord had killed, for the Lord had brought down his judgments on their gods. 
The Israelites left Rameses and set up camp at Succoth. 
They moved on from Succoth and set up camp at Etham, on the edge of the desert. 
They moved on from Etham, turning back towards Pi-hahiroth, opposite Baal-zephon, and set up camp near Migdol. 
They moved on from Pi-hahiroth and crossed through the middle of the sea into the desert. They traveled on for three days into the Desert of Etham and set up camp at Marah. 
They moved on from Marah and arrived at Elim, where there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees, and set up camp there. 
They moved on from Elim and set up camp beside the Red Sea. 
They moved on from the Red Sea and set up camp in the Desert of Sin. 
They moved on from the Desert of Sin and set up camp at Dophkah. 
They moved on from Dophkah and set up camp at Alush. 
They moved on from Alush and set up camp at Rephidim. There wasn't any water there for the people to drink. 
They moved on from Rephidim and set up camp in the Sinai Desert. 
They moved on from the Sinai Desert and set up camp at Kibroth-hattaavah. 
They moved on from Kibroth-hattaavah and set up camp at Hazeroth. 
They moved on from Hazeroth and set up camp at Rithmah. 
They moved on from Rithmah and set up camp at Rimmon-perez. 
They moved on from Rimmon-perez and set up camp at Libnah. 
They moved on from Libnah and set up camp at Rissah. 
They moved on from Rissah and set up camp at Kehelathah. 
They moved on from Kehelathah and set up camp at Mount Shepher. 
They moved on from Mount Shepher and set up camp at Haradah. 
They moved on from Haradah and set up camp at Makheloth. 
They moved on from Makheloth and set up camp at Tahath. 
They moved on from Tahath and set up camp at Terah. 
They moved on from Terah and set up camp at Mithkah. 
They moved on from Mithkah and set up camp at Hashmonah. 
They moved on from Hashmonah and set up camp at Moseroth. 
They moved on from Moseroth and set up camp at Bene-jaakan. 
They moved on from Bene-jaakan and set up camp at Hor-haggidgad. 
They moved on from Hor-haggidgad and set up camp at Jotbathah. 
They moved on from Jotbathah and set up camp at Abronah. 
They moved on from Abronah and set up camp at Ezion-geber. 
They moved on from Ezion-geber and set up camp at Kadesh in the Desert of Zin. 
They moved on from Kadesh and set up camp at Mount Hor, on the edge of Edom. 
Aaron the priest climbed Mount Hor as the Lord had directed, and he died there on the first day of the fifth month, in the fortieth year after the Israelites had left Egypt. 
Aaron was 123 when he died on Mount Hor. 
(The Canaanite king of Arad, who lived in the Negev in the country of Canaan, found out that the Israelites were on their way.) 
The Israelites moved on from Mount Hor and set up camp at Zalmonah. 
They moved on from Zalmonah and set up camp at Punon. 
They moved on from Punon and set up camp at Oboth. 
They moved on from Oboth and set up camp at Iye-abarim on the border of Moab. 
They moved on from Iye-abarim and set up camp at Dibon-gad. 
They moved on from Dibon-gad and set up camp at Almon-diblathaim. 
They moved on from Almon-diblathaim and set up camp in the mountains of Abarim opposite Nebo. 
They moved on from the mountains of Abarim and set up camp on the plains of Moab beside the Jordan opposite Jericho. 
There on the plains of Moab they set up camp beside the Jordan, from Beth-jeshimoth to Abel-shittim. 
This was where, on the plains of Moab beside the Jordan opposite Jericho, that the Lord told Moses, 
“Tell the Israelites, ‘Once you cross the Jordan and enter the country of Canaan, 
you must drive out everyone living in the land, destroy all their carved images and metal idols, and tear down all their pagan temples. 
You are to take over the country and settle there, because I have given you the land and it belongs to you. 
You are to divide the land and allocate it by lot to the different tribal families. Give a larger portion to a larger family, and a smaller portion to a smaller family. Each one's allocation is decided by lot, and you will all receive an allocation depending on your tribe. 
But if you don't drive out everyone living in the land, the people you allow to remain will be like grit in your eyes and thorns in your sides. They will cause you trouble where you settle in the country. 
Eventually the punishment I planned for them I will inflict on you.” 
