Jeremiah.
Chapter 27.
This message came to Jeremiah from the Lord at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah, son of Josiah, king of Judah. 
This is what the Lord told me: Make for yourself a harness and a yoke and strap it on your neck 
Send a message to the kings of Edom, Moab, Ammon, Tyre, and Sidon through the ambassadors who have come to Jerusalem to see Zedekiah king of Judah. 
Give them this order from the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, to convey to their masters: 
It was by my strength and creative power that I made the earth and the human beings and animals that live there, and I give it to those who are right in my sight. 
Now I have placed my servant Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon in charge of all these countries. I have even given him control over the wild animals. 
All nations will serve him and his son and grandson, until the time that his own land comes under the control of other nations and powerful kings. 
Any nation or kingdom that doesn't serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and doesn't submit to him I will punish that nation by war and famine and plague, declares the Lord, until I let Nebuchadnezzar destroy it completely. 
Don't you listen to your prophets, your fortune-tellers, your interpreters of dreams, your mediums, or your magicians when they tell you, “You won't serve the king of Babylon.” 
They're prophesying a lie to you that will lead to your removal from your country. I will expel you and you will die. 
But a nation that submits to the king of Babylon and serves him, I will leave in its own land, to cultivate it and live in it, declares the Lord. 
I gave the same message to Zedekiah king of Judah: Submit to the king of Babylon; serve him and his people, and live! 
Why should you and your people die by war and famine and plague, as the Lord has said he would bring against any nation that does not serve the king of Babylon? 
Don't listen to messages from prophets who say, “You won't serve the king of Babylon,” for they are prophesying a lie to you. 
I didn't send them, declares the Lord, and yet they are giving false prophecies in my name. So I will expel you and you will die—you and the prophets who prophesy to you. 
Then I told the priests and all the people, This is what the Lord says: Don't listen to the words of your prophets who prophesy to you, saying, “Look! The objects from the Lord's Temple will shortly be returned from Babylon.” They are prophesying a lie to you. 
Don't listen to them. Serve the king of Babylon and live! Why should this city be destroyed? 
If they are truly prophets and really have the word of the Lord with them, they should be pleading now with the Lord Almighty that what's left in the Lord's Temple, in the palace of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem, isn't taken to Babylon. 
This what the Lord Almighty says about the pillars, the bronze sea, the bases, and the rest of the objects that are left in Jerusalem: 
everything Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon didn't take when he took Jehoiachin son of Jehoiakim king of Judah into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon, together with all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem. 
Again, this is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says about the objects left in the Lord's Temple, in the palace of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem: 
They will be taken away to Babylon and will stay there until the time I see to them again, declares the Lord. Only then will I bring them back so they will be in Jerusalem again. 
