1 Chronicles.
Chapter 22.
Then David said, “This is where the house of the Lord God will be, and this is the place for the altar of burnt offering for Israel.” 
So David gave orders to summon the foreigners living in the land of Israel, and he assigned stonecutters to prepare dressed stones to build the house of God. 
David provided plenty of iron to make the nails for the entrance doors and for the supports, as well as more bronze than could be weighed. 
He provided more cedar logs than could be counted, because the people of Sidon and Tyre had brought a huge quantity of cedar logs to David. 
David said to himself, “My son Solomon is still young and inexperienced, and the house that is to be built for the Lord must be truly magnificent, famous and glorious around the world. I need to start preparing for it.” So David made sure plenty of building materials were ready before he died. 
Then he sent for his son Solomon and instructed him to build a house for the Lord, the God of Israel. 
David told Solomon, “My son, I had always wanted to build a house to honor the Lord my God. 
But the Lord told me, ‘You have shed a lot of blood and engaged in many wars. You are not to build a house to honor me because I have seen you shed so much blood on the earth. 
But you will have a son who will be a man of peace. I will give him peace from all his enemies in the nations around. Solomon will be his name, and I will grant peace and quiet to Israel during his reign. 
He is the one who will build a house to honor me. He will be my son, and I will be his father. And I will make sure the throne of his kingdom over Israel lasts forever.’ 
Now, my son, may the Lord be with you so you may succeed in building the house of the Lord your God, just as he said you would. 
Only may the Lord give you insight and understanding when he puts you in command of Israel, so that you may keep the law of the Lord your God. 
Then you will be successful, as long as you are careful to follow the laws and regulations that the Lord through Moses instructed Israel to do. Be strong and be brave! Don't be afraid or discouraged! 
Look, I've taken a lot of trouble to provide for the house of the Lord— 100,000 talents of gold, 1,000,000 talents of silver, and bronze and iron, more than can be weighed. 
I have also provided timber and stone, but you will need to add more. 
You have many workers such as stonecutters, masons, carpenters, and all kinds of craftsmen of gold, silver, bronze, and iron—without limit. So get started, and may the Lord be with you!” 
David also ordered all the leaders in Israel to help his son Solomon. 
“Isn't the Lord God with you? Hasn't he given you peace on all your borders?” he asked. “Why? Because he has placed the inhabitants of the land under my power, and they are now subject to the Lord and to his people. 
Now, with your whole mind and heart, make a definite decision to always worship the Lord your God. Get started on building the sanctuary of the Lord God, Then you can bring the Ark of the Lord's Agreement and the holy things of God into the house that is to be built to honor the Lord.” 
