Genesis.
Chapter 29.
Jacob went quickly on his way, and arrived in the land of the eastern people. 
As he looked around he saw a well in a field with three flocks of sheep lying down beside it, waiting to be given water. A large stone covered the top of the well. 
The usual practice was that once all the flocks had arrived, the shepherds would roll away the stone from the well and give their sheep water. Then they would put the stone back again. 
Jacob asked them, “My brothers, where are you from?” “We're from Haran,” they replied. 
“Do you know Laban, Nahor's grandson?” he asked. “Yes, we know him,” they replied. 
“How is he?” he asked. “He's well,” they replied. “Look! In fact here's his daughter Rachel coming with the sheep right now.” 
“Look, there's still plenty of daylight left,” said Jacob. “It's too early to round up the sheep yet. Why not let them drink so they can go back to grazing?” 
“We can't do that until all the flocks have arrived,” they told him. “Then we roll away the stone from the well and let the sheep drink.” 
While he was still talking with them Rachel arrived with the flock she was looking after for her father. 
When Jacob saw Rachel, the daughter of Laban, his mother's brother, he went over and rolled away the stone from the well so Laban's sheep could drink. 
Then Jacob kissed Rachel and wept for joy. 
(He had told her that he was the son of Laban's brother and Rebekah.) She ran and told her father what had happened. 
As soon as Laban heard the news about Jacob he ran out to meet him. He hugged him and kissed him, and took him home. After Jacob had explained everything to Laban, 
Laban told him, “No question about it—you're my own flesh and blood!” Jacob stayed with Laban for a month. 
One day Laban said to him, “You're my relative so you shouldn't be working for me for nothing! Tell me, what should I pay you?” 
Laban had two daughters. The older one was Leah, and the younger one was Rachel. 
Leah had kind eyes, but Rachel had a shapely figure and beautiful looks. 
Jacob was in love with Rachel so he promised Laban, “I'll do seven years work for you for Rachel, your younger daughter.” 
“Well it's better for me to give her to you than anyone else,” Laban replied. “So stay here and work for me.” 
Jacob worked for Laban for seven years, but to him they seemed like just a few days because he really loved her. 
Then Jacob said to Laban, “I've completed the time we agreed. Now give me your daughter to be my wife.” 
So Laban organized a wedding banquet and invited everyone around to come. 
But once it was dark Laban brought his daughter Leah to Jacob, and he slept with her. 
(Laban also arranged for his servant Zilpah to be Leah's personal maid.) 
When morning came, he saw it was Leah! He went to Laban and asked angrily, “What have you done to me? It was for Rachel that I worked for you! Why have you deceived me?” 
“Here we don't give the younger daughter in marriage before the firstborn,” Laban replied. 
“Finish this week of wedding celebrations and then I'll give you the other daughter as well, as long as you work another seven years for me.” 
Jacob agreed. He finished the week of wedding celebrations for Leah, and then Laban gave Jacob his daughter Rachel as his wife as well. 
(Laban also arranged for his servant Bilhah to be Rachel's personal maid.) 
So Jacob slept with Rachel as well, and he loved Rachel more than Leah. He worked for Laban another seven years for Rachel. 
The Lord saw that Leah wasn't loved he helped Leah to have children, but not Rachel. 
Leah became pregnant, and had a son she named Reuben, for she said, “The Lord saw how much I was suffering and now my husband will love me!” 
Then Leah became pregnant again, and had another son. She said, “The Lord has heard that I'm not loved so he gave me this son.” So she named him Simeon. 
Leah became pregnant for the third time, and had another son. She said, “Finally my husband will be attached to me because now I've given him three sons.” That's why he was named Levi. 
Once again Leah became pregnant and had another son. She named him Judah, for she said, “Now I can really praise the Lord!” After that she had no more children. 
