Exodus.
Chapter 27.
Make an altar of acacia wood. It is to be square and measure five cubits long by five cubits wide by three cubits high. 
Make horns for each of its corners, all one piece with the altar, and cover the whole altar with bronze. 
Make all its utensils of bronze: buckets for removing ashes, shovels, sprinkling bowls, meat forks, and firepans. 
Make a bronze mesh grate for it with a bronze ring on each of its corners. 
Put the grate under the ledge of the altar, so that the mesh comes halfway down the altar. 
Make poles of acacia wood for the altar and cover them with bronze. 
The poles are to be placed in the rings so that the poles are on either side of the altar when it is carried. 
Make the altar hollow, using boards, just as you were shown on the mountain. 
Make a courtyard for the Tabernacle. For the south side of the courtyard make curtains of finely-spun linen, a hundred cubits long on one side, 
with twenty posts and twenty bronze stands, with silver hooks and bands on the posts. 
Similarly there are to be curtains placed on the north side in an identical arrangement. 
The curtains for the west side of the courtyard are to be fifty cubits wide, with ten posts and ten stands. 
The east side of the courtyard that faces the sunrise is to be fifty cubits wide. 
Make the curtains on one side fifteen cubits long, with three posts and three stands, 
and the curtains on the other side just the same. 
The entrance to the courtyard is to be twenty cubits wide, with a curtain embroidered with blue, purple, and crimson thread, and finely-spun linen, held up by four posts and four stands. 
All the posts around the courtyard are to have silver bands, silver hooks, and bronze stands. 
The whole courtyard is to be a hundred cubits long and fifty cubits wide, with curtains made of finely-spun linen five cubits high, and with bronze stands. 
All the rest of the equipment used in the Tabernacle, including its tent pegs and those for the courtyard, are to be made of bronze. 
You are to order the Israelites to bring you pure, hand-pressed olive oil for the lamps so they can go on burning, giving light. 
In the Tent of Meeting, outside the veil in front of the Testimony, Aaron and his sons are to keep the lamps burning in the Lord's presence from evening until morning. This requirement is to be observed by the Israelites for all generations. 
