Leviticus.
Chapter 20.
The Lord told Moses, 
“Tell the Israelites: these regulations are for both Israelites and foreigners living among them. Anyone who sacrifices their children to Molech must be executed. The community must stone them to death. 
I will disown them and expel them from their people, because by sacrificing their children to Molech they have polluted my sanctuary and disgraced my reputation. 
If the community decides to look the other way and not execute those who sacrifice their children to Molech, then I will take action against them myself. 
I will disown them and their family, and expel them from their people—and not just them, but everyone who follows them in spiritually prostituting themselves with Molech. 
I will also disown and expel from their people anyone who goes to mediums or spiritists and in this way commits spiritual prostitution with them. 
So dedicate yourselves and be holy, because I am the Lord your God. 
Keep my rules and put them into practice. I am the Lord who makes you holy. 
Anyone who curses their father or mother must be executed. They have cursed their father or mother; they bear the responsibility for their punishment. 
Any man who commits adultery with someone else's wife must be executed, as well as the woman. 
A man who has sex with his father's wife has brought shame on his father. Both the man and the woman must be executed. Both must surely be put to death; they bear the responsibility for their punishment. 
A man who has sex with his daughter-in-law must be executed, as well as the woman. They have done something perverse; they bear the responsibility for their punishment. 
Men who have sex with other men as with a woman have done something disgusting. They must be executed; they bear the responsibility for their punishment. 
A man who marries both a woman and her mother has acted perversely. They must all be burned to death so that there will be no such wickedness among you. 
A man who has sex with an animal must be executed, and the animal must be killed too. 
A woman who gives herself to an animal to have sex with it must be executed, along with the animal. They must both be killed; they bear the responsibility for their punishment. 
A man who marries his sister, whether she's his father's daughter or his mother's daughter, and they have sex, has done something shameful. They must be expelled from their people in front of everybody. He has brought shame on his sister; he bears the responsibility for his punishment. 
A man who has sex with a woman having her period he has exposed where her blood flow comes from, and she has too. They must both be expelled from their people. 
Don't have sex with your aunt, whether on your father or your mother's side, because it brings shame on your own family. Both will bear responsibility for their sin. 
A man who has sex with his uncle's wife brings shame on his uncle. They will bear responsibility for their sin; they shall die without having children. 
A man who marries his brother's wife does something that is unclean. He has brought shame on his brother; the couple will have no children. 
So keep all my rules and regulations, so that the land where I'm taking you to live won't vomit you out. 
Don't follow the practices of the nations I'm expelling for you. I detested them because they did all these evil things. 
But I have promised you that you will take over their land. I'm going to give it to you to own, a land that flows with milk and honey. I am the Lord your God, who has made you a distinctive people different from all others. 
So make sure you observe the difference between clean and unclean animals and birds. Don't make yourselves unclean because of any animal or bird, or by anything that runs along the ground. I have made the difference clear: they are unclean for you. 
You shall be holy to me because I am holy. I am the Lord, and I have made you a distinctive people different from all other nations. You belong to me. 
Anyone, man or a woman, who is a medium or a spiritist must be executed. They are to be stoned to death; they bear the responsibility for their punishment.” 
