Leviticus.
Chapter 15.
The Lord told Moses and Aaron, 
“Tell the Israelites, When any man has a discharge from his genitals, the discharge is unclean. 
The uncleanness comes from his discharge, whether his body allows it to flow out or blocks it. It makes him unclean. 
Any bed the man with the discharge lies on will be unclean, and anything he sits on will be unclean. 
Anyone who touches his bed has to wash their clothes, and wash themselves with water, and they will be unclean until the evening. 
Anyone who sits on whatever the man was sitting on has to wash their clothes, and wash themselves with water, and they will be unclean until the evening. 
Anyone who touches the man's body has to wash their clothes, and wash themselves with water, and they will be unclean until the evening. 
If the man with the discharge spits on anyone who is clean, they have to wash their clothes, and wash themselves with water, and they will be unclean until the evening. 
Whatever the man sits on when he's riding will be unclean. 
Anyone who touches whatever was under him will be unclean until the evening. Anyone who picks these things up has to wash their clothes, and wash themselves with water, and they will be unclean until the evening. 
If the man with the discharge touches anyone without washing his hands with water first, the person who was touched has to wash their clothes, and wash themselves with water, and they will be unclean until the evening. 
Any clay item touched by the man must be broken, and any wooden item must be washed with water. 
Once the discharge has healed, the man must allocate seven days for his cleaning process, wash his clothes, and wash himself in fresh water, and he shall be clean. 
On the eighth day he must take two turtledoves or two young pigeons, come before the Lord at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting, and give them to the priest. 
The priest will sacrifice them, one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering. This is how the priest will make the man right before the Lord because of his discharge. 
When a man has a release of semen, he must wash his whole body with water, and he will be unclean until the evening. 
Any clothing or leather that the release of semen falls on must be washed with water, and it will remain unclean until the evening. 
If a man sleeps with a woman and there is a release of semen, both of them must wash with water, and they will remain unclean until the evening. 
When a woman has a discharge of blood from her body, she will be unclean because of her period for seven days, and anyone who touches her will be unclean until the evening. 
Anything she lies or sits on during her period will be unclean, 
and anyone who touches her bed must wash their clothes and wash themselves with water, and will be unclean until the evening. 
Anyone who touches what she was sitting on has to wash their clothes, and wash themselves with water, and they will be unclean until the evening. 
Whether it's a bed or something she was sitting on, anyone who touches it will be unclean until the evening. 
If a man sleeps with her and the blood from her period touches him, he will be unclean for seven days, and any bed he lies on will be unclean. 
When a woman has a discharge of blood for several days when it's not the time for her period, or if it continues past her period, she will be unclean for the whole time she is bleeding, not just for the days of her period. 
Any bed she lies on or anything she sits on while she has her discharge will be unclean, just as her bed is during her period. 
Anyone who touches them has to wash their clothes, and wash themselves with water, and they will be unclean until the evening. 
Once the woman's discharge has healed, she must allocate seven days for her cleaning process, wash her clothes, and wash herself in fresh water, and she shall be clean. 
On the eighth day she must take two turtledoves or two young pigeons, come before the Lord at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting, and give them to the priest. 
The priest will sacrifice them, one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering. This is how the priest will make her right before the Lord because of her discharge. 
This is how you must stop the Israelites from becoming ceremonially unclean, so that they don't die by making my Tabernacle unclean, the place where I live with them. 
These are the regulations regarding a man who has a discharge, a man who has a release of semen that makes him unclean, 
a woman during her period, any male or female who has a discharge, and a man who sleeps with an unclean woman.” 
