Ezekiel.
Chapter 41.
He took me to the Temple and measured the posts as cubits wide on both sides. 
The entrance was ten cubits wide, and the sides of the entrance were five cubits long on both sides. He measured the outer sanctuary as forty cubits long and twenty cubits wide. 
He went into the inner sanctuary and measured the entrance posts as two cubits wide. The entrance was six cubits wide, and the walls on both sides were seven cubits wide. 
He measured the room beside the inner sanctuary as twenty cubits long and twenty cubits wide. He told me, “This is the Most Holy Place.” 
He measured Temple wall as six cubits thick, and each side room around the Temple was four cubits wide. 
There were three levels of side rooms above one another, each having thirty rooms. The wall of the Temple had external supports for the side rooms, so that they would not be fixed into the wall of the Temple itself. 
The side rooms around the Temple became wider at each higher level, because as the structure around the Temple went up the Temple wall grew narrower A stairway provided access from the bottom story to the top, going through the middle level. 
I saw that the Temple was on a raised platform that surrounded it. This was the foundation for the side rooms. Its height was the complete length of a measuring rod, six long cubits. 
The thickness of the outer wall of the side rooms was five cubits, and there was open space between the side rooms of the Temple 
and the outer chambers that measured twenty cubits wide all round the Temple. 
The doors of the side rooms opened into this area, with one entrance to the north and another one to the south. The open space was five cubits wide on each side. 
Another building faced the Temple courtyard on the west side. It measured seventy cubits wide and ninety cubits long, with walls all the way round that were five cubits thick. 
He measured the Temple as one hundred cubits long. The Temple courtyard and the building including its walls were also one hundred cubits long. 
The Temple courtyard on the east side, (including the front of the Temple), was one hundred cubits wide. 
He measured the length of the building that faced the Temple courtyard towards the rear of the Temple, including its open halls on each side. It was one hundred cubits long. The outer sanctuary, the inner sanctuary, and the porches facing the courtyard, 
as well as the thresholds and the narrow windows and the surrounding open halls with their three levels up to and including the threshold, were covered with wood on every side. This extended from the ground up to and including the windows. 
On the outside of all the walls by the entrance to the inner sanctuary, spaced at regular intervals around the inner and outer sanctuary, 
were carved designs of cherubim and palm trees. Every cherub had two faces: 
a man's face looked in the direction of a palm tree on one side, and the face of a young lion looked in the direction of the palm tree on the other side. These carvings extended the whole way round the Temple. 
Designs of cherubim and palm trees were carved on the Temple wall from the floor up to the space above the doorway. 
The Temple's doorframe was rectangular, as was the doorframe of the sanctuary. 
An altar made of wood stood there, three cubits high and two cubits by long. All of it—its corners, base, and sides—were made of wood. The man told me, “This is the table that stands before the Lord.” 
The Temple and the sanctuary both had hinged double doors. 
Each door had two panels that opened. There were two panels for one door, and two panels for the other door. 
There were carvings of cherubim and palm trees on the Temple doors like those on the walls, and there was a wooden roof that covered the outside part of the porch at the front. 
There were narrow windows and palm tree designs on the walls of the porch. The side rooms of the Temple also had roofs. 
