Exodus.
Chapter 6.
But the Lord told Moses, “Now you'll see what I'm going to do to Pharaoh. Using my great strength I will force him to let them go; because of my power he will send them out from his country.” 
God spoke to Moses and told him, “I am Yahweh! 
I revealed myself as God Almighty to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, but they didn't know my name, ‘Yahweh.’ 
I also confirmed my solemn agreement with them to give them the land of Canaan, the country where they were living as foreigners. 
In addition I've heard the groans of the Israelites that the Egyptians are treating as slaves, and I haven't forgotten the agreement I promised them. 
So tell the Israelites, ‘I am the Lord and I will save you from the forced labor the Egyptians are making you do; I will set you free from being their slaves. I will rescue you using my power and imposing heavy punishments. 
I will make you my own people. Then you will know that I am the Lord your God, who rescued you from slavery in Egypt. 
I will take you to the land that I solemnly promised to give to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. I will give it to you to own. I am the Lord!’” 
Moses explained this to the Israelites but they did not listen to him, because they were so discouraged and because of the hard labor they were forced to do. 
Then the Lord said to Moses, 
“Go and speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Tell him to let the Israelites leave his country.” 
But Moses replied, “Even my own people don't listen to me. Why would Pharaoh listen to me, especially since I'm such a poor speaker?” 
But the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, and told them what to do regarding the people of Israel and Pharaoh, king of Egypt, in order to bring the Israelites out of Egypt. 
These were the Israelite family heads. The sons of Reuben, the firstborn son of Israel, were Hanok and Pallu, Hezron and Karmi. These were the families of Reuben. 
The sons of Simeon were Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul, (the son of a Canaanite woman). These were the families of Simeon. 
These were the names of the sons of Levi according to their genealogical records: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. Levi lived for 137 years. 
The sons of Gershon, by families, were Libni and Shimei. 
The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. Kohath lived for 133 years. 
The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. These were the families of the Levites according to their genealogical records. 
Amram married his father's sister Jochebed, and she had their sons Aaron and Moses. Amram lived for 137 years. 
The sons of Izhar were Korah, Nepheg, and Zichri. 
The sons of Uzziel were Mishael, Elzaphan, and Sithri. 
Aaron married Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab and sister of Nahshon. She had their sons Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. 
The sons of Korah were Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasaph. These were the Korahite families. 
Eleazar, son of Aaron, married one of the daughters of Putiel, and she had their son Phinehas. These are the ancestors of the Levite families, listed according to their clans. Eleazar son of Aaron married one of the daughters of Putiel, and she gave birth to his son, Phinehas. These are the heads of the Levite families, listed by family. 
Aaron and Moses mentioned here are the ones the Lord told, “Lead the Israelites out of Egypt, divided up in their respective tribes.” 
Moses and Aaron were also the ones who went to speak with Pharaoh, king of Egypt, about the Israelites leaving Egypt. 
When the Lord spoke to Moses in Egypt, 
he said to him, “I am the Lord. Tell Pharaoh, king of Egypt, all that I tell you.” 
But Moses replied, “I'm not a good speaker—why would Pharaoh listen to me?” 
