Exodus.
Chapter 35.
Moses summoned all the Israelites and told them, “This is what the Lord has ordered you to do: 
Six days you can work, but the seventh day is to be a holy Sabbath of rest to the Lord. Anyone who does any work on the Sabbath day must be killed. 
Don't even light a fire in any of your homes on the Sabbath day.” 
Moses also told all the Israelites, “This is what the Lord has commanded: 
Collect an offering to the Lord from what you have. Everyone who wants to should bring an offering to the Lord: gold, silver, and bronze; 
blue, purple, and crimson thread; finely-woven linen and goat hair; 
tanned ram skins and fine leather; acacia wood; 
olive oil for the lamps; spices for the anointing oil and for the aromatic incense; 
and onyx stones and gemstones for making the ephod and breastpiece. 
All your skilled craftsmen are to come and make everything the Lord has commanded: 
the Tabernacle with its tent and covering, its clips and frames, its crossbars, posts, and stands; 
the Ark with its poles and atonement cover, and the veil to hang over it; 
the table with its poles, all its equipment, and the Bread of the Presence; 
the lampstand of light with its equipment and lamps and olive oil to provide lighting; 
the altar of incense with its poles; the anointing oil and aromatic incense; the screen for the Tabernacle entrance and all its accessories; 
the altar of burnt offering with its bronze grate, its poles and all its utensils; the basin plus its stand; 
the curtains of the courtyard with its posts and bases, and the curtain for the courtyard entrance; 
the tent pegs for the Tabernacle and for the courtyard, as well as their ropes; 
and the woven clothes for serving in the holy place: the sacred clothing for Aaron the priest and for his sons to serve as priests.” 
The Israelites left Moses, 
and all those who felt moved to do so and who had a willing spirit came and brought an offering to the Lord for the work making the Tent of Meeting, for everything required for its services, and for the sacred clothing. 
So everyone who was willing, both men and women, came and presented their gold as a thanks offering to the Lord, including brooches, earrings, rings, and necklaces—all kinds of gold jewelry. 
Everyone who had blue, purple, and crimson thread, finely-woven linen, goat hair, tanned ram skins, and fine leather, contributed them. 
Those who could present an offering of silver or bronze brought it as a gift to the Lord. Everyone who had acacia wood for any part of the work donated it. 
Every woman skilled in spinning with her hands brought what she had spun: blue, purple, or crimson thread, or finely-woven linen. 
All the women who were willing to use their skills spun the goat hair. 
The leaders brought onyx stones and gemstones to make the ephod and breastpiece, 
as well as spices and olive oil for lighting, for the anointing oil, and for the aromatic incense. 
All the Israelite men and women who were willing brought a freewill offering to the Lord for all the work in making what the Lord through Moses had ordered them to do. 
Then Moses told the Israelites, “The Lord chosen by name Bezalel, son of Uri, son of Hur, from the tribe of Judah. 
He has filled him with the Spirit of God giving him ability, creativity, and expertise in all kinds of craftsmanship. 
He can produce designs in gold, silver, and bronze, 
he can cut gemstones to place in settings, and he can carve wood. He is a master of every craft. 
The Lord has also given him and Oholiab son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan, the ability to teach others. 
He has equipped them with skill to do all kinds of work as engravers, designers, embroiderers in blue, purple, and crimson thread, and finely-woven linen, and as weavers—in fact as skilled designers in all kinds of different crafts. 
