Ezekiel.
Chapter 48.
This is a list of the allocations according to the names of the tribes. At the northern frontier, Dan's allocation borders the Hethlon road to Lebo-hamath and to Hazar-enan on the border of Damascus with Hamath to the north, and extends from the eastern boundary of the country to that on the west. 
Asher's allocation borders that of Dan from east to west. 
Naphtali's allocation borders that of Asher from east to west. 
Manasseh's allocation borders that of Naphtali from east to west. 
Ephraim's allocation borders that of Manasseh from east to west. 
Reuben's allocation borders that of east to west. 
Judah's allocation borders that of Reuben from east to west. 
Adjacent to Judah's allocation, from east to west, is the special area you are to make provision for. It is to be 25,000 cubits wide, and extend the same length as a tribal allocation from east to west. The sanctuary will be in the middle of it. 
The special allocation you make is for the Lord and shall be 25,000 cubits by 10,000 cubits. 
This is to be the holy allocation for the priests. It will be 25,000 cubits long on the north and south sides, and 10,000 cubits wide on the west and east sides. The sanctuary will be in the middle of it. 
It is for the holy priests, descendants of Zadok, who stayed faithful and did not abandon me when the Israelites abandoned me. 
It will be a special part of the land provided for them, a most holy allocation next to that of the Levites. 
The Levites shall have an area 25,000 cubits by 10,000 cubits adjacent to the allocation of the priests. Its entire length will be 25,000 cubits, and its width 10,000 cubits. 
They are not permitted to sell exchange or transfer any of it, for it is the best part of the land and is holy to the Lord. 
The remainder, 5,000 cubits by 25,000 cubits, is for ordinary use by the city for houses and pastureland. The city will be in the middle of it, 
and this will be its measurements: 4,500 cubits on all sides, north, south, east, and west. 
The city's pastureland will surround it for 250 cubits on all sides, north, south, east, and west. 
What remains of the land bordering the holy allocation and running beside it will be 10,000 cubits on both the east side and the west side. The crops it produces will provide food for those who work in the city. 
These workers who farm the land will be from all the Israelite tribes. 
The whole allocation will be a square, 25,000 cubits by 25,000 cubits. You are to make provision for the holy allocation, together with the area for the city. 
The land that remains on both sides of the holy allocation and of the area for the city will belong to the prince. This land will be next to the tribal allocations and extend east from the 25,000 cubits of the holy section to the eastern border, on the other side west from the 25,000 cubits to the western border. In the middle of them will be the holy section and the Temple sanctuary. 
The Levites area and the city's area will lie in the middle of the prince's allocation, and will lie between the borders of the allocations of Judah and Benjamin. 
These are the allocations for the rest of the tribes: Benjamin's allocation extends from the eastern boundary of the country to that on the west. 
Simeon's allocation borders that of Benjamin from east to west. 
Issachar's allocation borders that of Simeon from east to west. 
Zebulun's allocation borders that of Issachar from east to west. 
Gad's allocation borders that of Zebulun from east to west. 
The southern border of Gad's allocation will be from Tamar to the waters of Meribath-kadesh, then along the Wadi of Egypt to the Mediterranean Sea. 
This is the land you are to allocate for the tribes of Israel to own and pass on as an inheritance. These are their assigned allocations, declares the Lord God. 
These are to be the city exits, starting on the north side, which is 4,500 cubits long. 
The city gates are to be named after the tribes of Israel. There will be three gates on the north side: the gates of Reuben, Judah, and Levi. 
There will be three gates on the east side, (also 4,500 cubits long): the gates of Joseph, Benjamin, and Dan. 
There will be three gates on the south side, (also 4,500 cubits long): the gates of Simeon, Issachar, and Zebulun. 
There will be three gates on the west side, (also 4,500 cubits long): the gate of Gad, the gate of Asher, and the gate of Naphtali. 
The distance around the outside of the city will be 18,000 cubits. From that day on the name of the city will be “The Lord Is There.”
