Second Peter.
Chapter 1.
This letter comes from Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who share with us the same priceless trust in our God and Savior Jesus Christ, the one who is truly good and right. 
May you have ever more grace and peace as you grow in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. 
Through his divine power we have been given everything that's important to live a God-centered life. This comes through knowing him who called us to himself by his own glory and goodness. In this way he's given us wonderful, priceless promises. 
Through these promises you can share in the divine nature, being rid of the corruption caused by this world's evil desires. 
For this same reason, do everything you can! Add to your trust in God, goodness; add to goodness, knowledge; 
add to knowledge, self-control; add to self-control, patience; add to patience, reverence; 
add to reverence, affection for fellow-believers, add to affection for fellow-believers, love. 
The more you have these qualities, the more they will keep you from being ineffective and unproductive in your knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
For anyone who doesn't have such qualities is short-sighted, or blind. They forget that they've been cleansed from their past sins. 
So, brothers and sisters, be all the more determined to make sure you are truly “called and chosen.” If you do this, you won't ever fall. 
You will receive a tremendous welcome into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. 
That's why I always remind you about these things, even though you know them already, and you stand firm in the truth that you possess. 
But I still think it's a good idea to encourage you by giving you reminders while I live. 
I know the time when I shall leave this life will be coming soon— our Lord Jesus Christ has made this clear to me. 
I will do my best so that when I'm gone you will always be able to remember these things. 
We didn't follow made-up myths when we told you about the coming in power of our Lord Jesus Christ—we saw his majesty for ourselves. 
He received honor and glory from God the Father when the voice of majestic glory spoke to him and announced, “This is my Son, the one I love, and who truly pleases me.” 
We ourselves heard this voice speak from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain. 
We also have the confirming word of prophecy that's absolutely trustworthy, and you will benefit from paying close attention to it. It's like a lamp that shines in a dark place until the day dawns, and the morning star shines to illuminate your minds. 
Most of all you should realize that no prophecy of scripture is a matter for interpretation based on the whims of an individual, 
for no prophecy originated in human ideas, but prophets spoke for God as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. 
