PSALMS.
Chapter 118.
Thank the Lord, for he is good! His trustworthy love lasts forever. 
Let all Israel say, “His trustworthy love lasts forever.” 
Let Aaron's descendants say, “His trustworthy love lasts forever.” 
Let those who honor the Lord say, “His trustworthy love lasts forever.” 
I was suffering badly, so I cried out to the Lord for help. He answered me and set me free from my pain. 
The Lord is with me, so I have nothing to fear. No one can harm me. 
The Lord is with me, he will help me. I will see those who hate me defeated. 
It's better to rely on the Lord than to trust in people. 
It's better to rely on the Lord than to trust in the rich and powerful. 
Even though all the heathen nations surrounded me, I defeated them with the help of the Lord. 
They completely surrounded me, but even so I defeated them with the help of the Lord. 
Like a swarm of bees they attacked, but their attack died out as quickly as burning thorn twigs. I defeated them with the help of the Lord. 
They tried as hard as they could to kill me, but the Lord helped me. 
The Lord is my strength, and the one I sing about. He is the one who saves me. 
Songs of celebration and victory come from the tents of the faithful. The Lord's powerful hand has done amazing things! 
The Lord raises his powerful hand in victory! The Lord's powerful hand has done amazing things! 
I'm not going to die. In fact I'm going to live, and let people know what the Lord has done. 
Even though the Lord punished me severely, he did not let me die. 
Open the gates of the faithful for me so I can go in and thank the Lord. 
These are the gates of the Lord where God's faithful people enter. 
I want to thank you for answering me and for being the one who saves me. 
The stone rejected by the builders has turned out to be the chief cornerstone. 
The Lord has done this, and it looks wonderful to us! 
The Lord made this day happen! We will celebrate and be happy for it! 
Lord, please save us! Lord, please make us successful! 
May the one who comes in the power of the Lord by blessed! We bless you from the house of the Lord! 
The Lord is God, and his goodness shines on us. Branches in hand, start the procession up towards the altar. 
You are my God, and I will thank you! You are my God, and I will praise you! 
Thank the Lord, for he is good! His trustworthy love lasts forever! 
