Deuteronomy.
Chapter 33.
The following is the blessing that Moses the man of God gave to the Israelites before he died. 
He said, The Lord came from Mount Sinai and shone on us from Mount Seir; he blazed out from Mount Paran coming with ten thousand of holy ones, holding flaming fire at his right hand. 
How much you love the people; you hold all the holy ones in your hand. They sit down at your feet to listen to your words: 
the law that Moses delivered to us that belongs to all the Israelites. 
The Lord became King in Israel when the people's leaders gathered, when the tribes of Israel assembled. 
To Reuben he said, “May he live and not die, but may he only have a few men.” 
To Judah he said: “Lord, please hear the cry of Judah and reunite him with his people. Even though he fights for himself, may you help him against his enemies.” 
To Levi he said: “Your Thummim were given to Levi and your Urim to those dedicated to God, the ones you tested at Massah and argued with at the waters of Meribah. 
Levi said that he didn't pay attention to his father and mother, that he didn't acknowledge his brothers, and that he didn't recognize his children. The Levites did what you said and kept your agreement. 
They will teach your regulations to Jacob and your law to Israel. They will place incense before you, and sacrifice whole burnt offerings on your altar. 
Lord, please bless what they have, and accept their service for you. Destroy those who attack them; make sure their enemies never rise again.” 
To Benjamin he said: “May the one the Lord loves be kept safe and secure in the Lord. The Lord always protects him, letting him rest on his shoulders.” 
To Joseph he said: “May the Lord bless his land with the best gifts of heaven—with the dew and water from the depths below; 
with the best crops ripened by the sun and the best produce of the seasons; 
with the finest contributions of the ancient mountains and the best materials of the everlasting hills; 
with the best gifts of the land and everything in it, along with the appreciation of the one who was in the burning bush. May these blessings rest on the head of Joseph like a crown for this prince among his brothers. 
He is as majestic as a firstborn bull; his horns are like those of a wild ox. He will use them to gore the nations, driving them to the ends of the earth. The horns represent the ten thousands of Ephraim, and the thousands of Manasseh.” 
To Zebulun he said: “Celebrate, Zebulun, in your travels and Issachar, in your tents. 
They will summon the peoples to a mountain; will offer the appropriate sacrifices there. They will enjoy the rich produce of the seas and from trading on the seashores.” 
To Gad he said: “Blessed is he who makes Gad's territory larger! Gad is like a lion lying in wait, ready to rip off an arm or a head. 
He chose the best land for himself, for he was allocated a ruler's share. He met with the people's leaders; he did what the Lord said was right, following the Lord's regulations for Israel.” 
To Dan he said: “Dan is a young lion that leaps out of Bashan.” 
To Naphtali he said: “Naphtali is really favored, full of the Lord's blessing. He shall take over the land to the west and south.” 
To Asher he said: “May Asher be blessed more than all the other sons; may he be favored above his brothers and bathe his feet in olive oil. 
May the bolts of your gate be strong as iron and bronze, and may you be strong all your life.” 
There is no one like the God of Israel, who rides across the heavens to come to help you; who rides the clouds in majesty. 
The eternal God is your home, and he holds you up with his everlasting arms. He drives out the enemy ahead of you, and gives the order, “Destroy him!” 
As a result Israel lives in peace; Jacob has no trouble in a country of grain and new wine, where the heavens drip with dew. 
How blessed you are, Israel! Is there anyone like you, a people saved by the Lord? He is the shield that protects you, the sword that gives you confidence. Your enemies will tremble before you, and you shall tread them underfoot. 
