Romans.
Chapter 12.
So I encourage you, my brothers and sisters, because of God's compassion for you, to dedicate your bodies as a living offering that is holy and pleasing to God. This is the logical way to worship. 
Don't follow the ways of this world; instead be transformed by the spiritual renewal of your mind so you can demonstrate what God's will really is—good, pleasing, and perfect. 
Let me explain to all of you, through the grace given to me, that no one should think of themselves better than they ought to. You should think about yourselves realistically, according to the degree of trust God has shared with you. 
Just as there are many parts to the body, but they don't all do the same thing, 
so we are one body in Christ, even though we are many—and we all belong to one another. 
We each have different gifts that vary according to the grace given to us. So if it's speaking for God, then you should do so depending on how much you trust in God. 
If it's the ministry of service then you should serve; if teaching then you should teach; 
if encouragement then you should encourage; if giving then you should give generously; if leadership then you should lead with commitment; if being merciful then you should do so gladly. 
Love must be genuine. Hate what is evil; hold on tightly to what is good. 
Be completely dedicated to each other in your love as family; value others more than yourselves. 
Don't be unwilling to work hard; serve the Lord with an enthusiastic spirit. 
Remain cheerful in the hope you have, put up with the troubles that come, keep on praying. 
Share in providing for the needs of God's people, and welcome strangers with hospitality. 
Bless those who persecute you—bless them, and don't curse them. 
Be happy with those who are happy; cry with those who are crying. 
Think about one another. Don't consider yourself more important than others; live humbly. Don't be conceited. 
Don't pay back anyone evil for evil. Make sure you show everybody that what you're doing is good, 
and as far as it's up to you, live at peace with everyone. 
My dear friends, don't seek revenge, but leave it to God to execute judgment—as Scripture points out, “‘It's for me to dispense justice, I will repay,’ says the Lord.” 
If those who hate you are hungry, give them food; if they're thirsty, give them a drink; for by doing so you pile fiery coals on their heads. 
Don't be defeated by evil—conquer evil with good. 
