Mark.
Chapter 4.
Jesus began teaching beside the Sea again. So many people came to listen to him that he climbed into a boat and sat in it on the water while the crowd listened from the shore. 
He illustrated his teachings using many stories. 
“Listen,” he said. “A sower went out to sow. 
Now as he was scattering the seeds, some fell on the path, and birds came and ate them up. 
Other seeds fell on stony ground where there wasn't much earth. In the shallow soil the plants started growing quickly, but because the soil wasn't deep 
they were scorched when the sun came up. Since they didn't have any real roots, they soon withered. 
Other seeds fell among thorns. The thorns grew up and choked the sprouting seeds, so they produced nothing. 
Other seeds fell on good soil where they sprouted and grew. They produced a harvest of some thirty, some sixty, and some a hundred times what was planted. 
If you have ears to hear, listen to what I'm saying.” 
When he was by himself, his twelve disciples and the others who were with him asked him what the illustrations meant. 
He told them, “The mystery of God's kingdom has been given to you to understand. But outsiders only have the stories, 
so that even though they see, they don't really ‘see,’ and even though they hear, they don't understand, otherwise they might turn to me and be forgiven.” 
“Don't you understand this story?” Jesus asked them. “If you can't, how are you going to understand all the other stories? 
The sower sows the word. 
The seeds on the path where the word is sown illustrate those who hear the message, but then Satan immediately comes along and takes away the word that's been sown in them. 
Likewise the seeds on the rocky ground illustrate those who hear the word, and happily accept it right away. 
But since they have no real roots, they only last for a while until trouble or persecution comes, and then they quickly fall away. 
Those sown among the thorns illustrate those who hear the word, 
but worries of this world, the temptation of wealth, and other distractions choke the growth of the word, and it becomes unproductive. 
But the seeds sown on good soil illustrate those who hear the word, accept it, and are productive—producing thirty, sixty, and hundred times what was originally sown. 
Who puts a lamp under a bucket, or beneath a bed?” Jesus asked them. “No, you put a lamp up on a lamp-stand. 
Everything that is hidden will be revealed, and everything that is secret will be brought out into the open. 
If you have ears to hear, listen to what I'm saying! 
Pay attention to what you're hearing,” he told them, “for you will be given according to how much you want to receive, measure for measure. 
More will be given to those who already have understanding, but those who don't want to know will have what little understanding they have taken from them. 
God's kingdom is like a man sowing seed in the ground,” Jesus said. 
“He goes to bed and gets up, day after day, but the man has no knowledge of how the seeds sprout and grow. 
The earth produces a harvest by itself. First a shoot appears, then the heads of grain, and then the heads of grain ripen. 
When the grain is ripe, the farmer reaps it with a sickle, because the harvest is ready. 
What can we compare God's kingdom to? What illustration shall we use?” he asked. 
“It's like a mustard seed, the tiniest seed of all. 
But when it's sown it grows into a plant that's larger than other plants. It has branches big enough that birds can roost in its shade.” 
Jesus used many of these illustrated stories when he spoke to the people so they would understand as much as they could. 
In fact, when he spoke publicly, he only used stories; however in private he explained everything to his disciples. 
Later that day, in the evening, he said to his disciples, “Let's go across to the other side of the Sea.” 
Leaving the crowd behind, the disciples went with Jesus and got into a boat. Other boats went with them. 
Soon a terrible storm started blowing, and waves crashed against the boat, filling it with water. 
Jesus was asleep in the stern, resting his head on a cushion. The disciples woke him up, shouting at him, “Teacher, don't you care that we're about to drown?” 
Jesus woke up. He told the wind to die down and told the waves, “Be quiet! Be still.” The wind stopped, and the water became completely calm. 
“Why are you so frightened? Haven't you learned to trust me?” he asked them. 
They were stunned and terrified. They asked each other, “Who is this? Even the wind and the waves obey him!” 
