PSALMS.
Chapter 136.
Thank the Lord, because he is good! For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
Thank the Lord, the God of gods! For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
Thank the Lord of lords! For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
To him who alone does amazing things! For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
To him who knew how to make the heavens. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
To him who spread out the earth over the waters. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
To him who made the lights above. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
The sun to rule the day. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
The moon and stars to rule the night. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
To him who struck down the firstborn in Egypt. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
He led his people out of Egypt. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
He did this with his strong hand and outstretched arm. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
To him who parted the Red Sea. For his trustworthy love lasts forever, 
And led Israel through it. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
But threw Pharaoh and his army into the Red Sea. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
To him who led his people through the wilderness. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
To him who struck down powerful kings. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
To him who killed powerful kings. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
Sihon, king of the Amorites. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
Og, king of Bashan. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
He gave Israel their land to possess. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
He granted ownership to his servant Israel. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
He remembered us even in our humiliation. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
He rescued us from our enemies. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
To the one who provides food for every living creature. For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
Thank the God of heaven! For his trustworthy love lasts forever. 
