Nahum.
Chapter 1.
A prophecy about Nineveh: the scroll of the vision that came to Nahum the Elkoshite. 
The Lord is a jealous and avenging God—the Lord God is avenging and angry. The Lord takes vengeance on his enemies, he is angry with those who are hostile to him. 
The Lord is slow to become angry, has great power, and will not leave the guilty unpunished. He walks among the whirlwind and the storm; the clouds are like dust beneath his feet. 
He commands the sea and makes it dry; he dries up all the rivers. Bashan and Carmel wither; the blossom of Lebanon fades. 
Mountains quake in his presence; hills melt away. The earth trembles before him—the whole world and everyone who lives there. 
Who can withstand his fury? Who can endure the heat of his anger? His rage pours out like molten fire; he shatters rocks to pieces. 
The Lord is good, a place of safety in a time of trouble. He takes care of those who place their trust in him, 
but those who oppose him will be swept away by a tremendous flood to their destruction. He pursues his enemies into the darkness of death. 
Why are you plotting against the Lord? He will end it completely; misery won't arise twice. 
They entangle themselves like people caught in thorn bushes; they are like drunks full of drink. They will be completely burned up like dry straw. 
One of you is plotting evil against the Lord, someone who is planning wickedness. 
This is what the Lord says: Even though they are strong and numerous, they will be cut down and they will pass away. Though I have caused you trouble, I will not do so anymore. 
Now I will break their yoke from your necks and tear away the chains which bind you. 
This is what the Lord has ordered concerning you. You will have no descendants to carry on your name. I will destroy the gods in your temples, all the wooden and metal idols. I am digging your grave, for you are depraved. 
Look! A messenger is coming over the mountains, bringing good news and proclaiming peace. Judah, celebrate your religious festivals and keep your vows, for never again will wicked enemies invade your land—they will be completely destroyed. 
