Job.
Chapter 34.
Then Elihu continued, 
“Listen to my words, you men who say you are wise; pay attention to what I'm saying you who think you know. 
The ear distinguishes words just as the palate distinguishes foods. 
Let us discern for ourselves what is right: let us decide among ourselves what is good. 
Job said, ‘I am innocent, and God has denied me justice. 
Even though I'm right, I'm treated like a liar; I am dying from my wounds, even though I've done nothing wrong.’ 
Has there ever been a man like Job with such a thirst for ridiculing others? 
He keeps company with wicked people; he associates with those who do evil. 
He's even said, ‘What benefit is there in being God's friend?’ 
So listen to me, you men of understanding! It's impossible for God to do evil and the Almighty to do wrong. 
He pays people back for what they've done, and treats them as they deserve. 
It's absolutely sure that God doesn't act wickedly; the Almighty would never pervert justice. 
Who put him in charge of the earth? Who gave him the responsibility for all the world? 
If he were to withdraw his spirit, if he were to take back his breath, 
all living things would immediately die and human beings would return to dust. 
If you have understanding then hear this; pay attention to what I'm saying. 
Do you really think someone who hated justice could govern? Are you going to condemn Almighty God who always does what is right? 
He's the one who tells kings, ‘You're useless!’ or says to nobles, ‘You're wicked!’ 
He doesn't think more of the rich than the poor, for they are all people he himself made. 
They die in a moment; at midnight they shudder and pass away; the mighty are gone without effort. 
For he watches what they're doing and sees everywhere they go. 
There is no darkness so deep where people who do evil can hide themselves from him. 
God doesn't need to examine anyone in any greater detail that they should come before him for judgment. 
He brings down the mighty without needing an investigation; he sets up others in their place. 
Knowing what they've done he overthrows them in a night and destroys them. 
He strikes them down for their wickedness in public where they can be seen 
because they turned away from following him, disregarding all his ways. 
They made the poor call out to him, and he heard the cries of the oppressed. 
Yet if God wants to remain silent, who can condemn him? If he chooses to hide his face, who can see him? Whether it concerns a nation or an individual, 
a person who rejects God should not rule so they don't mislead people. 
If you were to say to God, ‘I have sinned, but I won't do bad things any more. 
Show me what I cannot see. If I have done wrong, I won't do it again,’ 
then should God reward you for following your own opinions since you have rejected his? You're the one who has to choose, not me! Tell us what you think. 
For people who understand—those who are wise who have heard what I said—will tell me, 
‘Job doesn't know what he's talking about. What he says doesn't make any sense.’ 
If only Job were thoroughly condemned because he speaks like evil people do. 
Now he has added rebellion to his sins; he claps his hands at us, making long speeches full of accusations against God.” 
