Revelation.
Chapter 5.
I saw the one sitting on the throne holding a scroll in his right hand. The scroll was written on both sides and was sealed with seven seals. 
I saw a powerful angel shouting in a loud voice, “Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals?” 
Nobody in heaven, or on earth, or under the earth was able to open the scroll and read it. 
I cried many tears because nobody could be found who was worthy to open the book and read it. 
One of the elders spoke to me and said, “Don't cry. Look, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the descendant of David, has won the battle and can open the scroll and its seven seals.” 
I saw a Lamb that looked as if it had been killed standing in the center by the throne and the four living creatures, among the elders. He had seven horns and seven eyes that are the seven Spirits of God that are sent out to all the earth. 
He went and took the scroll from the right hand of the one that sat on the throne. 
When he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. Each of them had a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the believers. 
They sang a new song, “You are worthy to take the scroll and open its seals, for you were slain and with your blood you redeemed for God people from every tribe, language, people, and nation. 
You made them into a kingdom and priests for our God, and they will reign on the earth.” 
As I looked I heard the voices of millions of angels around the throne, together with the living creatures and the elders, 
shouting loudly together: “The Lamb that was slain is worthy to receive authority, wealth, wisdom, strength, honor, glory, and blessing.” 
Then I heard every creature in heaven, on earth, and under the earth, in the sea—every creature everywhere—replying: “To the one who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb be blessing, honor, glory, and authority, for ever and ever.” 
The four living creatures said, “Amen!” and the elders fell down and worshiped. 
