Matthew.
Chapter 20.
For the kyngdome of heven ys lyke vnto an houssholder which went out erly in the morninge to hyre labourers into hys vyneyarde. 
And he agreed with the labourers for a peny a daye and sent them into his vyneyarde. 
And he went out about the thyrde houre and sawe other stonding ydell in the market place 
and sayd vnto them go ye also into my vyneyarde: and whatsoever is right I will geve you. And they went there waye. 
Agayne he wet out about the sixte and nynthe houre and dyd lyke wyse. 
And he went out aboute the eleventhe houre and founde other stondynge ydell and sayde vnto them: Why stonde ye here all the daye ydell? 
They sayde vnto hym: because no man hath hyred vs. He sayde to them: goo ye alsoo into my vyneyarde and whatsoever is right that shall ye receave. 
When even was come the lorde of the vyneyarde sayde vnto hys steward: call the labourers and geve them their hyre beginnyng at the laste tyll thou come to the fyrste. 
And they whiche were hyred aboute the eleventhe houre came and receaved every man a peny. 
Then came the fyrst supposyng that they shuld receave moare: and they likewyse receaved every man a peny. 
And when they had receaved it they murmured agaynst the good man of the housse 
saying: These laste have wrought but one houre and thou hast made them equall vnto vs which have born the burthe and heet of the daye. 
He answered to one of the sayinge: frende I do the no wronge: dyddest thou not agre with me for a peny? 
Take that which is thy duty and go thy waye. I will geve vnto this last as moche as to the. 
Ys it not lawfull for me to do as me listeth with myne awne? Ys thyne eye evyll because I am good? 
Soo the laste shalbe fyrste and the fyrste shalbe laste. For many are called and feawe be chosen. 
And Iesus ascended to Ierusalem and toke the .xii. disciples a parte in the waye and sayde to the. 
Beholde we goo vp to Ierusalem and the sonne of man shalbe betrayed vnto the chefe prestes and vnto the scribes and they shall condemne him to deeth 
and shall delyvre him to the getils to be mocked to be scourged and to be crucified: and the thyrd daye he shall ryse agayne. 
Then came to hym the mother of zebedes chyldren with her sonnes worshippynge him and desyringe a certayne thinge of him. 
And he sayd vnto her: what wilt thou have? She sayde vnto him: Gravnte that these my two sonnes may sit the one on thy right hond and the other on the lifte hond in thy kyngdome. 
Iesus answered and sayd: Ye wot not what ye axe. Are ye able to drynke of the cuppe that I shall drynke of and to be baptised with the baptyme that I shalbe baptised with? They answered to him that we are. 
And he sayd vnto the: Ye shall drinke of my cvp and shalbe baptised with the baptyme that I shalbe baptised with. But to syt on my ryght hond and on my lyst hond is not myne to geve: but to them for whom it is prepared of my father. 
And when the ten hearde this they disdayned at the two brethren: 
But Iesus called them vnto him and sayde: Ye knowe that the lordes of the gentyls have dominacion over them. And they that are great exercise power over them. 
It shall not be so amonge you. But whosoever wyll be greate amonge you let him be youre minister: 
and whosoever wilbe chefe let him be youre servaut 
even as the sonne of man came not to be ministred vnto but to minister and to geve his lyfe for the redempcion of many. 
And as they departed from Hierico moche people folowed him. 
And beholde two blinde men sittinge by the waysyde when they hearde Iesus passe by cryed sayinge: Thou Lorde the sonne of David have mercy on vs. 
And the people rebuked them be cause they shulde holde their peace. But they cryed the moare sayinge: have mercy on vs thou Lorde which arte the sonne of David. 
Then Iesus stode styll and called the and sayde: what will ye that I shulde do to you: 
They sayd to him: Lorde that oure eyes maye be opened. 
Iesus had compassion on the and touched their eyes. And immediatly their eyes receaved syght. And they folowed him. 
