Romans.
Chapter 3.
What preferment then hath the Iewe? other what a vauntageth circumcision? 
Surely very moche. Fyrst vnto them was committed the worde of God 
What then though some of them did not beleve? shall their vnbeleve make the promes of god with out effecte? 
God forbid. Let god be true and all men lyars as it is written: That thou myghtest be iustifyed in thy sayinge and shuldest overcome when thou arte iudged. 
Yf oure vnrightewesnes make the rightewesnes of God more excellent: what shall we saye? Is God vnrighteous which taketh vengeauce? I speake after the maner of men. 
God forbid. For how then shall God iudge the worlde? 
Yf the veritie of God appere moare excellent thorow my lye vnto his prayse why am I hence forth iudged as a synner? 
and saye not rather (as men evyll speake of vs and as some affirme that we saye) let vs do evyll that good maye come therof. Whose damnacion is iuste. 
What saye we then? Are we better then they? No in no wyse. For we have all ready proved how that both Iewes and Gentils are all vnder synne 
as it is writte: There is none righteous no not one: 
There is none that vnderstondith there is none that seketh after God 
they are all gone out of the waye they are all made vnprofytable ther is none that doeth good no not one. 
Their throte is an open sepulchre with their tounges they have disceaved: the poyson of Aspes is vnder their lippes. 
Whose mouthes are full of coursynge and bitternes. 
Their fete are swyfte to sheed bloud. 
Destruccion and wretchednes are in their wayes. 
And the waye of peace they have not knowen. 
There is no feare of God before their eyes. 
Ye and we knowe that whatsoever the lawe sayth he sayth it to them which are vnder the lawe. That all mouthes maye be stopped and all the worlde be subdued to god because that by the dedes of the lawe shall no flesshe be iustified in the sight of God. 
For by the lawe commeth the knowledge of synne. 
Now verely is the rightewesnes that cometh of God declared without the fulfillinge of the lawe havinge witnes yet of the lawe and of the Prophetes. 
The rightewesnes no dout which is good before God cometh by the fayth of Iesus Christ vnto all and vpon all that beleve. Ther is no difference: 
for all have synned and lacke the prayse that is of valoure before God: 
but are iustified frely by his grace through the redempcion that is in Christ Iesu 
whom God hath made a seate of mercy thorow faith in his bloud to shewe the rightewesnes which before him is of valoure in that he forgeveth the synnes that are passed which God dyd suffre 
to shewe at this tyme the rightewesnes that is alowed of him that he myght be counted iuste and a iustifiar of him which belevith on Iesus. 
Where is then thy reioysinge? It is excluded. By what lawe? by the lawe of workes? Naye: but by the lawe of fayth. 
For we suppose that a man is iustified by fayth without the dedes of the lawe. 
Is he the God of the Iewes only? Is he not also the God of the Gentyls? Yes even of the Gentyles also. 
For it is God only which iustifieth circumcision which is of fayth and vncircumcision thorow fayth. 
Do we then destroye the lawe thorow fayth? God forbid. But we rather mayntayne the lawe. 
