2 Peter.
Chapter 3.
This is the seconde pistle that I now wryte vnto you beloved wherwith I stere vp and warne youre pure myndes 
to call to remembraunce the wordes which were tolde before of the holy prophetes and also the commaundement of vs the apostles of the lorde and saveour. 
This fyrst vnderstode that ther shall come in the last dayes mockers which will walke after their awne lustes 
and saye. Where is the promes of his comynge? For sence the fathers dyed all thinges cotinue in the same estate wher in they were at the begynninge. 
This they knowe not (and that willyngly) how that the hevens a great whyle ago were and the erth that was in the water appered vp out of the water by the worde of god: 
by the which thinges the worlde that then was perisshed over flowen with the water. 
But the heves verely and erth which are now are kept by the same worde in store and reserved vnto fyre agaynst the daye of iudgement and perdicion of vngodly men. 
Derely beloved be not ignorant of this one thynge how that one daye is with the lorde as a thousande yeare and a thousand yeare as one daye. 
The lorde is not slacke to fulfill his promes as some men count slacknes: but is pacient to vs warde and wolde have no man lost but wolde receave all men to repentaunce. 
Neverthelesse the daye of the lorde will come as a thefe in the nyght in the which daye the hevens shall perisshe with terrible noyes and the elemetes shall melt with heet and the erth with the workes that are therin shall burne. 
Yf all these thinges shall perisshe what maner persons ought ye to be in holy conversacion and godlynes: 
lokynge for and hastynge vnto the commynge of the daye of God in which the hevens shall perisshe with fyre and the elementes shalbe consumed with heate. 
Neverthelesse we loke for a newe heven and a newe erth accordynge to his promes where in dwelleth rightewesnes. 
Wherfore derly beloved seynge that ye loke for soche thynges be diliget that ye maye be founde of him in peace with out spotte and vndefiled 
And suppose that the longe sufferynge of the lorde is saluacion even as oure derely beloved brother Paul accordynge to the wysdome geve vnto him wrote to you 
yee almost in very pistle speakynge of soche thynges: amonge which are many thynges harde to be vnderstonde which they that are vnlearned and vnstable pervert as they do other scriptures vnto their awne destruccion. 
Ye therfore beloved seynge ye knowe it before hande beware lest ye be also plucked a waye with the erroure of the wicked and fall from youre awne stedfastnes: 
but growe in grace and in the knowledge of oure lorde and saveoure Iesus Christ. To whom he glory bothe now and for ever. Amen. 
