Matthew.
Chapter 8.
When he was come downe from the moutayne moch people folowed him. 
And lo ther came a lepre and worsheped him sayinge: Master if thou wylt thou canst make me clene. 
And Iesus put forthe hys hond and touched hym sayinge: I wyll be thou clene and immediatly hys leprosie was clensed. 
And Iesus sayde vnto him. Se thou tell no man but go and shewe thy selfe to the preste and offer the gyfte that Moses commaunded in witnes to them. 
When Iesus was entred into Capernau ther came vnto him a certayne Centurion and besought hym sayinge: 
Master my seruaunt lyeth sicke at home of the palsye and ys greuously payned. 
And Iesus sayd vnto hym: I will come and heale him. 
The Centurion answered and sayde: Syr I am not worthy that thou shuldest come vnder my rofe but speake the worde only and my servaut shalbe healed. 
For I also my selfe am a man vndre power and have sowdiers vndre me and I saye to one go and he goeth and to anothre come and he cometh: and to my seruaut do this and he doeth it. 
When Iesus hearde that he marveled and sayd to them that folowed hym. Derely I say vnto you I have not foude so great fayth: no not in Israel. 
I say therfore vnto you that many shall come from the eest and weest and shall rest with Abraham Isaac and Iacob in the kingdome of heven: 
and the chyldren of the kyngdome shalbe cast out in to vtter darcknes: there shalbe wepinge and gnasshing of tethe. 
The Iesus sayd vnto the Centurion go thy waye and as thou belevest so be it vnto the. And his servaunt was healed the selfe houre. 
And then Iesus went to Peters housse and sawe hys wyves mother lyinge sicke of a fevre 
and touched her hande and the fevre left hir: and she arose and ministred vnto them. 
When the euen was come they brought vn to him many that were possessed with devyllis. And he cast out the spirites with a worde and healed all that were sicke 
to fulfill that which was spoke by Esayas the Prophet sayinge. He toke on him oure infirmities and bare oure sickneses 
When Iesus sawe moche people about him he commaunded to go over the water. 
And ther came a scribe and sayd vnto hym: master I wyll folowe the whyther so ever thou goest. 
And Iesus sayd vnto him: the foxes have holes and the bryddes of the ayer have nestes but the sonne of the man hath not wheron to rest his heede. 
A nothre that was one of hys disciples sayd vnto hym: master suffre me fyrst to go and burye my father. 
But Iesus sayd vnto him: folowe me and let the deed burie their deed. 
And he entred in to a shyppe and his disciples folowed him. 
And beholde there arose a a greate tempest in the see in so moche that the shippe was covered with waves and he was a slepe. 
And his disciples came vn to him and awoke hym sayinge: master save vs we perishe. 
And he sayd vnto them: why are ye fearfull o ye of lytell faithe? Then he arose and rebuked the wyndes and the see and ther folowed a greate calme. 
And the men marveyled and sayd: what man is this that bothe wyndes and see obey hym? 
And when he was come to the other syde in to the countre of the Gergesites ther met him two possessed of devylles which came out of the graves and were out of measure fearce so that no man myght go by that waye. 
And behold they cryed out sayinge: O Iesu the sonne of God what have we to do with the? Art thou come hyther to torment vs before the tyme be come? 
And ther was a good waye of from them a greate heerd of swyne fedinge. 
Then the devyles besought him sayinge: if thou cast vs out suffre vs to go oure waye in to the heerd of swyne. 
And he sayd vnto the: go youre wayes. Then wet they out and departed into the heerd of swyne And beholde the whoale heerd of swyne was caryed with violence hedlinge in to the see and perisshed in the water. 
Then the heerdmen fleed and wet their ways in to the cyte and tolde every thinge and what had fortuned vnto the possessed of the devyls. 
And beholde all the cyte came out and met Iesus. And when they sawe hym they besought hym to departe oute of their costes. 
