Ephesians.
Chapter 5.
Be ye folowers of god as dere children 
and walke in love even as Christ loved vs and gave him silfe for vs an offerynge and a sacrifyce of a swete saver to god. 
So that fornicacion and all vnclennes or coveteousnes be not once named amonge you as it be commeth saynctes: 
nether filthynes nether folishe talkyng nether gestinge which are not comly: but rather gevynge of thankes 
For this ye knowe that no whormonger other vnclene person or coveteous person which is the worshipper of ymages hath eny inheritaunce in the kyngdome of Christ and of God. 
Let no man deceave you with vayne wordes. For thorow soche thinges cometh the wrath of God vpon the chyldre of vnbelefe. 
Be not therfore companions with them. 
Ye were once dercknes but are now light in the Lorde. Walke as chyldren of light. 
For the frute of the sprete is in all goodnes rightewesnes and trueth. 
Accept that which is pleasinge to the Lorde: 
and have no fellishippe with the vnfrutfull workes of dercknes: but rather rebuke them. 
For it is shame even to name those thinges which are done of them in secrete: 
but all thinges when they are rebuked of the light are manifest. For whatsoever is manifest that same is light. 
Wherfore he sayth: awake thou that slepest and stond vp from deeth and Christ shall geve the light. 
Take hede therfore that ye walke circuspectly: not as foles: but as wyse 
redemynge the tyme: for the dayes are evyll. 
Wherfore be ye not vnwyse but vnderstonde what the will of the Lorde is 
and be not dronke with wyne wherin is excesse: but be fulfilled with the sprete 
speakynge vnto youre selves in psalmes and ymnes and spretuall songes synginge and makinge melodie to the Lorde in youre hertes 
gevinge thankes all wayes for all thinges vnto God the father in the name of oure Lorde Iesu Christ: 
submittinge youre selves one to another in the feare of God. 
Wemen submit youre selves vnto youre awne husbandes as vnto the Lorde. 
For the husbande is the wyves heed even as Christ is the heed of the congregacion and the same is the saveoure of the body. 
Therfore as the congregacion is in subieccion to Christ lykwyse let the wyves be in subieccion to their husbandes in all thinges. 
Husbandes love youre wyves even as Christ loved the congregacion and gave him silfe for it 
to sanctifie it and clensed it in the fountayne of water thorow the worde 
to make it vnto him selfe a glorious congregacion with oute spot or wrynckle or eny soche thinge: but that it shuld be holy and with out blame. 
So ought men to love their wyves as their awne bodyes. He that loveth his wyfe loveth him sylfe. 
For no man ever yet hated his awne flesshe: but norissheth and cherisseth it even as the lorde doth the congregacion. 
For we are members of his body of his flesshe and of his bones. 
For this cause shall a man leave father and mother and shall cotinue with his wyfe and two shalbe made one flesshe. 
This is a great secrete but I speake bitwene Christ and the congregacion. 
Neverthelesse do ye so that every one of you love his wyfe truely even as him silfe. And let the wyfe se that she feare her husbande. 
