2 Corinthians.
Chapter 2.
But I determened this in my silfe that I wolde not come agayne to you in hevines. 
For yf I make you sorye who is it that shuld make me glad but the same which is made sory by me? 
And I wrote this same pistle vnto you lest yf I came I shuld take hevynes of them of whom I ought to reioyce. Certaynly this confidence have I in you all that my ioye is the ioye of you all. 
For in great affliccion and anguysshe of hert I wrote vnto you with many teares: not to make you sory but that ye myght perceave the love which I have most specially vnto you. 
If eny man hath caused sorow the same hath not made me sory but partely: lest I shuld greve you all. 
It is sufficient vnto the same man that he was rebuked of many. So that now contrary wyse ye ought to forgeve him and comforte him: 
lest that same persone shuld be swalowed vp with over moche hevines. 
Wherfore I exhorte you that love maye have stregth over him. 
For this cause verely dyd I write that I myght knowe the profe of you whether ye shuld be obediet in all thinges. 
To whom ye forgeve enythinge I forgeve also. And verely if I forgeve enythinge to whom I forgave it for youre sakes forgave I it in the roume of Christ 
lest Satan shuld prevet vs. For his thoughtes are not vnknowen vnto vs. 
When I was come to Troada for Christes gospels sake (and a great dore was openned vnto me of the Lorde) 
I had no rest in my sprete because I founde not Titus my brother: but toke my leave of them and went awaye into Macedonia. 
Thankes be vnto God which alwayes geveth vs the victorie in Christ and openeth the saver of his knowledge by vs in every place. 
For we are vnto God the swete savoure of Christ both amonge them that are saved and also amonge them which perisshe. 
To the one parte are we the savoure of deeth vnto deeth. And vnto the other parte are we the savoure of lyfe vnto lyfe. And who is mete vnto these thinges? 
For we are not as many are which choppe and chaunge with the worde of God: but even oute of purenes and by the power of God and in the sight of God so speake we in Christ. 
