Haggai.
Chapter 2.
on the twenty-first day of the seventh month, this message from the Lord came to Haggai the prophet, 
telling him to speak to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to all the rest of the people: 
Who is left among you that saw this temple in its former glory? And how do you see it now? Doesn't it seem as though there is nothing there? 
The Lord says: Yet now be strong, Zerubbabel, be strong, Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest, be strong, all you people of the land. The Lord says: Begin the work, for I am with you. The Lord of hosts says: 
When your ancestors left Egypt I made a promise to you, and I am still with you. Do not be afraid! 
The Lord of hosts says: In a little while, I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the land. 
And I will shake all nations, and the precious things of all nations shall come here; and I will fill this temple with glory. The Lord of hosts says: 
The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, 
The later glory of this temple shall be greater than the former. The Lord of hosts says: In this place I will grant prosperity. This is the message of the Lord of hosts. 
In the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, this message from the Lord came to Haggai the prophet: 
The Lord of hosts says: “Ask the priests for a ruling: 
‘If one carries consecrated meat in the fold of his garment, and with that garment touches bread, or stew, or wine, or oil, or any food, will it become holy?’” And the priests answered: “No.” 
Then said Haggai, “If one who is unclean by reason of a dead body touches any of these, will it be unclean?” And the priests answered: “It would be unclean.” 
Haggai replied: “So is this people and so is this nation before me, the Lord declares, and so is every work of their hands; and that which they offer there is unclean. 
Think back from this day, before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of the Lord. 
How were you? When you came to a heap of grain expecting twenty measures, there were only ten; when you came to the wine vat to draw out fifty vessels, there were only twenty. 
‘I struck all the work of your hands with blasting and blight, with mildew and with hail. Yet you didn't turn to me,’ says the Lord, 
‘Think back from this day, think! From the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, from the day when the foundations of the temple of the Lord were laid, and consider. 
The seed is in the granary, but the vine and the fig tree and the pomegranate and the olive tree have not yet brought forth fruit. From this day will I bless you.’” 
This message from the Lord came to Haggai a second time on the twenty-fourth day of the month: 
Tell Zerubbabel, governor of Judah: I will shake the heavens and the earth; 
and I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms; and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations; and I will overthrow the chariots, and those who ride in them; and the horses and their riders shall come down, each by the sword of his fellow. 
In that day, the Lord of hosts says, I will take you, Zerubbabel, my servant, the son of Shealtiel, the Lord says, and will make you like a signet ring, for I have chosen you, the Lord of hosts says. 
