Mark.
Chapter 3.
And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there who had his hand withered. 
And they watched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might accuse him. 
And he saith unto the man that had his hand withered, Stand forth. 
And he saith unto them, Is it lawful on the sabbath day to do good, or to do harm? to save a life, or to kill? But they held their peace. 
And when he had looked round about on them with anger, being grieved at the hardening of their heart, he saith unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he stretched it forth; and his hand was restored whole, as the other. 
And the Pharisees went out, and straightaway with the Herodians took counsel against him, how they might destroy him. 
And Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea: and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judea, 
and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea, and beyond the Jordan, and they about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they heard what great things he did, came unto him. 
And he spake to his disciples, that a little boat should wait on him because of the crowd, lest they should throng him: 
for he had healed many; insomuch that as many as had plagues pressed upon him that they might touch him. 
And the unclean spirits, whensoever they beheld him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God. 
And he charged them much that they should not make him known. 
And he goeth up into the mountain, and calleth unto him whom he himself would; and they went unto him. 
And he appointed twelve, that they might be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach, 
and to have authority to heal diseases, and to cast out demons: 
and Simon he surnamed Peter; 
and James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and them he surnamed Boanerges, which is, Sons of thunder: 
and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananite, 
and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. And they come into a house. 
And a multitude cometh together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread. 
And when his friends heard it, they went out to lay hold on him: for they said, He is beside himself. 
And the scribes that came down from Jerusalem said, He hath Beelzebul, and, By the prince of demons casteth he out demons. 
And he called them unto him, and said unto them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? 
And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 
And if a house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand. 
And if Satan hath risen up against himself, and is divided, he cannot stand, but hath an end. 
No one can enter into the house of the strong man, and plunder his goods, except he first bind the strong man; and then he may plunder his house. 
Verily I say unto you, All their sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, and blasphemies wherewith soever they shall blaspheme: 
but whosoever shall blaspheme against the Holy Spirit hath never forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal judgment: 
because they said, He hath an unclean spirit. 
There come then his brethren and his mother; and, standing without, they sent unto him, calling him. 
And a multitude was sitting about him; and they said unto him, Behold, thy mother, and thy brethren, and thy sisters without seek for thee. 
And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother or my brethren? 
And looking round on them that sat round about him, he saith, Behold, my mother and my brethren! 
For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother. 
