1 Esdras.
Chapter 5.
After this were the chiefs of fathers’ houses chosen to go up according to their tribes, with their wives and sons and daughters, with their menservants and maidservants, and their cattle. 
And Darius sent with them a thousand horsemen, till they had brought them back to Jerusalem safely, and with musical instruments, tabrets and flutes. 
And all their brethren played, and he made them go up together with them. 
And these are the names of the men who went up, according to their families among their tribes, after their several divisions. 
The priests, the sons of Phinehas, the sons of Aaron: Jeshua the son of Jozadak, the son of Seraiah, and Joakim the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, of the house of David, of the lineage of Phares, of the tribe of Judah; 
who spake wise sentences before Darius the king of Persia in the second year of his reign, in the month Nisan, which is the first month. 
And these are they of Judea that came up from the captivity, where they dwelt as strangers, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away unto Babylon. 
And they returned unto Jerusalem, and to the other parts of Judea, every man to his own city, who came with Zerubbabel, with Jeshua, Nehemiah, and Seraiah, Resaiah, Eneneus, Mordecai, Beelsarus, Aspharsus, Reeliah, Roimus, and Baana, their leaders. 
The number of them of the nation, and their leaders: the sons of Parosh, two thousand a hundred seventy and two: the sons of Shephatiah, four hundred seventy and two: 
the sons of Arah, seven hundred fifty and six: 
the sons of Pahath-moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve: 
the sons of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four: the sons of Zattu, nine hundred forty and five: the sons of Chorbe, seven hundred and five: the sons of Bani, six hundred forty and eight: 
the sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty and three: the sons of Azgad, a thousand three hundred twenty and two: 
the sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty and seven: the sons of Bigvai, two thousand sixty and six: the sons of Adin, four hundred fifty and four: 
the sons of Ater, of Hezekiah, ninety and two: the sons of Kilan and Azetas, threescore and seven: the sons of Azaru, four hundred thirty and two: 
the sons of Annias, a hundred and one: the sons of Arom: the sons of Bezai, three hundred twenty and three: the sons of Arsiphurith, a hundred and twelve: 
the sons of Baiterus, three thousand and five: the sons of Bethlehem, a hundred twenty and three: 
they of Netophah, fifty and five: they of Anathoth, a hundred fifty and eight: they of Bethasmoth, forty and two: 
they of Kiriath-arim, twenty and five: they of Chephirah and Beeroth, seven hundred forty and three: 
the Chadiasans and Ammidians, four hundred twenty and two: they of Kirama and Geba, six hundred twenty and one: 
they of Macalon, a hundred twenty and two: they of Betolio, fifty and two: the sons of Niphish, a hundred fifty and six: 
the sons of Calamolalus and Ono, seven hundred twenty and five: the sons of Jerechus, three hundred forty and five: 
the sons of Senaah, three thousand three hundred and thirty. 
The priests: the sons of Jedaiah, the son of Jeshua, among the sons of Anasib, nine hundred seventy and two: the sons of Immer, a thousand fifty and two: 
the sons of Pashhur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven: the sons of Harim, a thousand and seventeen. 
The Levites: the sons of Jeshua, and Kadmiel, and Bannas, and Sudias, seventy and four. 
The holy singers: the sons of Asaph, a hundred twenty and eight. 
The porters: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai, in all a hundred thirty and nine. 
The temple servants: the sons of Esau, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth, the sons of Keros, the sons of Sua, the sons of Padon, the sons of Lebanah, the sons of Hagabah, 
the sons of Akkub, the sons of Uthai, the sons of Ketab, the sons of Hagab, the sons of Subai, the sons of Hana, the sons of Cathua, the sons of Geddur, 
the sons of Jairus, the sons of Daisan, the sons of Noeba, the sons of Chezib, the sons of Gazera, the sons of Uzza, the sons of Phinoe, the sons of Hasrah, the sons of Basthai, the sons of Asnah, the sons of Maani, the sons of Nephisim, the sons of Acuph, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Asur, the sons of Pharakim, the sons of Bazluth, 
the sons of Mehida, the sons of Cutha, the sons of Charea, the sons of Barkos, the sons of Serar, the sons of Temah, the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha. 
The sons of the servants of Solomon: the sons of Assaphioth, the sons of Peruda, the sons of Jaalah, the sons of Lozon, the sons of Isdael, the sons of Shephatiah, 
the sons of Agia, the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the sons of Sarothie, the sons of Masiah, the sons of Gas, the sons of Addus, the sons of Subas, the sons of Apherra, the sons of Barodis, the sons of Shaphat, the sons of Allon. 
All the temple servants, and the sons of the servants of Solomon, were three hundred seventy and two. 
These came up from Tel-melah, and Tel-harsha, Cherub leading them, and Addan, and Immer; 
and they could not show their families, nor their stock, how they were of Israel: the sons of Delaiah the son of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, six hundred fifty and two. 
And of the priests, they that usurped the office of the priesthood and were not found: the sons of Habaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Jaddus, who married Agia one of the daughters of Barzillai, and was called after his name. 
And when the description of the kindred of these men was sought in the register, and was not found, they were removed from executing the office of the priesthood: 
for unto them said Nehemiah and Attharias, that they should not be partakers of the holy things, till there arose up a high priest wearing Urim and Thummim. 
So all they of Israel, from twelve years old and upward, beside menservants and maidservants, were in number forty and two thousand three hundred and sixty. 
Their menservants and maidservants were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: the minstrels and singers, two hundred forty and five: 
four hundred thirty and five camels, seven thousand thirty and six horses, two hundred forty and five mules, five thousand five hundred twenty and five beasts of burden. 
And certain of the chief men of their families, when they came to the temple of God that is in Jerusalem, vowed to set up the house again in its own place according to their ability, 
and to give into the holy treasury of the works a thousand pounds of gold, five thousand of silver, and a hundred priestly vestments. 
And the priests and the Levites and they that were of the people dwelt in Jerusalem and the country; the holy singers also and the porters and all Israel in their villages. 
But when the seventh month was at hand, and when the children of Israel were every man in his own place, they came all together with one consent into the broad place before the first porch which is toward the east. 
Then stood up Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and his brethren the priests, and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and his brethren, and made ready the altar of the God of Israel, 
to offer burnt sacrifices upon it, according as it is expressly commanded in the book of Moses the man of God. 
And certain were gathered unto them out of the other nations of the land, and they erected the altar upon its own place, because all the nations of the land were at enmity with them, and oppressed them; and they offered sacrifices according to the time, and burnt offerings to the Lord both morning and evening. 
Also they held the feast of tabernacles, as it is commanded in the law, and offered sacrifices daily, as was meet: 
and after that, the continual oblations, and the sacrifices of the Sabbaths, and of the new moons, and of all the consecrated feasts. 
And all they that had made any vow to God began to offer sacrifices to God from the new moon of the seventh month, although the temple of God was not yet built. 
And they gave money unto the masons and carpenters; and meat and drink, 
and carts unto them of Sidon and Tyre, that they should bring cedar trees from Lebanon, and convey them in floats to the haven of Joppa, according to the commandment which was written for them by Cyrus king of the Persians. 
And in the second year after his coming to the temple of God at Jerusalem, in the second month, began Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and their brethren, and the priests the Levites, and all they that were come unto Jerusalem out of the captivity: 
and they laid the foundation of the temple of God on the new moon of the second month, in the second year after they were come to Judea and Jerusalem. 
And they appointed the Levites from twenty years old over the works of the Lord. Then stood up Jeshua, and his sons and brethren, and Kadmiel his brother, and the sons of Jeshua Emadabun, and the sons of Joda the son of Iliadun, and their sons and brethren, all the Levites, with one accord setters forward of the business, laboring to advance the works in the house of God. So the builders built the temple of the Lord. 
And the priests stood arrayed in their vestments with musical instruments and trumpets, and the Levites the sons of Asaph with their cymbals, 
singing songs of thanksgiving, and praising the Lord, after the order of David king of Israel. 
And they sang aloud, praising the Lord in songs of thanksgiving, because his goodness and his glory are forever in all Israel. 
And all the people sounded trumpets, and shouted with a loud voice, singing songs of thanksgiving unto the Lord for the rearing up of the house of the Lord. 
Also of the priests the Levites, and of the heads of their families, the ancients who had seen the former house came to the building of this with lamentation and great weeping. 
But many with trumpets and joy shouted with loud voice, 
insomuch that the people heard not the trumpets for the weeping of the people: for the multitude sounded marvelously, so that it was heard afar off. 
Wherefore when the enemies of the tribe of Judah and Benjamin heard it, they came to know what that noise of trumpets should mean. 
And they perceived that they that were of the captivity did build the temple unto the Lord, the God of Israel. 
So they went to Zerubbabel and Jeshua, and to the chief men of the families, and said unto them, we will build together with you. 
For we likewise, as ye, do obey your Lord, and do sacrifice unto him from the days of Esar-haddon the king of the Assyrians, who brought us hither. 
Then Zerubbabel and Jeshua and the chief men of the families of Israel said unto them, It is not for you to build the house unto the Lord our God. 
We ourselves alone will build unto the Lord of Israel, according as Cyrus the king of the Persians hath commanded us. 
But the heathen of the land lying heavy upon the inhabitants of Judea, and holding them strait, hindered their building; 
and by their secret plots, and popular persuasions and commotions, they hindered the finishing of the building all the time that king Cyrus lived: so they were hindered from building for the space of two years, until the reign of Darius. 
