The Gospel According to Mark.
Chapter 1.
The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. 
As it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, Who shall prepare thy way before thee; 
The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make ye ready the way of the Lord, Make his paths straight; 
John came baptizing in the wilderness, and preaching the baptism of repentance unto remission of sins. 
And there went out unto him all the country of Judea, and they of Jerusalem; and they were all baptized of him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. 
Now John was clothed with camel’s hair, and had a leathern girdle about his loins, and did eat locusts and wild honey. 
And he preached, saying, There cometh after me he that is mightier than I, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. 
I indeed baptized you in water; but he shall baptize you in the Holy Spirit. 
And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in the Jordan. 
And straightaway coming up from the water, he saw the heavens rent asunder, and the Spirit as a dove descending upon him: 
and a voice came out of the heavens, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. 
And straightaway the Spirit driveth him forth into the wilderness. 
And he was there in the wilderness forty days tempted of Satan; and he was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him. 
Now after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, 
and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe in the gospel. 
And walking by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of the same Simon, casting a net in the sea; for they were fishers. 
And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. 
And straightaway they left their nets, and followed him. 
And going on a little further thence, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the boat mending the nets. 
And straightaway he called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him. 
And they go into Capernaum; and straightaway on the sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught. 
And they were astonished at his teaching: for he taught them as having authority, and not as the scribes. 
And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out, 
saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, Jesus thou Nazarene? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God. 
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. 
And the unclean spirit, tearing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him. 
And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? what new teaching is this, that with authority he commandeth even the unclean spirits, and they obey him? 
And the report of him went out straightaway into all the region of Galilee round about. 
And straightaway, when they were come out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John. 
Now Simon’s wife’s mother lay sick of a fever; and straightaway they tell him of her: 
and he came and took her by her hand, and raised her up; and straightaway the fever left her, and she ministered unto them. 
And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that were sick, and them that were possessed with demons. 
And all the city was gathered together at the door. 
And he healed many that were sick with diverse diseases, and cast out many demons; and he suffered not the demons to speak, because they knew him. 
And in the morning, a great while before day, he rose up and went out, and departed into a desert place, and there prayed. 
And Simon and they that were with him followed after him; 
and when they had found him, they say unto him, All are seeking thee. 
And he saith unto them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also; for to this end came I forth. 
And he was preaching in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and casting out demons. 
And there cometh to him a leper, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 
And Jesus, being moved with compassion, stretched forth his hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will; be thou made clean. 
And when he had spoken, straightaway the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean. 
And he strictly charged him, and straightaway sent him out, 
and saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. 
But he went out, and began to publish it much, and to spread abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into a city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from every quarter. 
