Mark.
Chapter 7.
And there are gathered together unto him the Pharisees, and certain of the scribes, who had come from Jerusalem: 
and when they saw some of his disciples eating bread with defiled, that is, unwashed, hands, they found fault. 
(For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, except they wash their hands diligently, eat not, holding the tradition of the elders; 
and when they come from the marketplace, except they bathe themselves, they eat not; and many other things there are, which they have received to hold, washings of cups, and pots, and brazen vessels, and couches.) 
Then the Pharisees and the scribes ask him, Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with unwashed hands? 
And he answered and said unto them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoreth me with their lips, But their heart is far from me. 
But in vain do they worship me, Teaching as their doctrines the precepts of men. 
For leaving the commandment of God, ye hold fast the tradition of men, washings of pots and cups: and many other such like things ye do. 
And he said unto them, Full well do ye reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your tradition. 
For Moses said, Honor thy father and thy mother; and, He that speaketh evil of father or mother, let him die the death: 
but ye say, If a man shall say to his father or his mother, That wherewith thou mightest have been profited by me is Corban, that is to say, Given to God; 
and ye no longer suffer him to do aught for his father or his mother; 
making void the word of God by your tradition, which ye have delivered: and many such like things ye do. 
And he called to him all the multitude, and said unto them, Hear me all of you, and understand: 
there is nothing from without the man, that going into him can defile him; but the things which proceed out of him, those are they that defile the man. 
If any man hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
And when he was entered into a house from the multitude, his disciples asked him concerning the parable. 
And he saith unto them, Are ye so without understanding also? Perceive ye not, that whatsoever from without goeth into the man, it cannot defile him; 
because it goeth not into his heart, but into his belly, and goeth out into the draft, making all meats clean? 
And he said, That which proceedeth out of the man, that defileth the man. 
For from within, out of the heart of men, evil thoughts proceed, adulteries, fornications, murders, 
thefts, covetings, wickednesses, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, railing, pride, foolishness: 
all these evil things proceed from within, and defile the man. 
And from thence he arose, and went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered into a house, and would have no man know it; and he could not be hidden. 
For a woman, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having heard of him, came and fell down at his feet. 
Now the woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by race. And she besought him that he would cast forth the demon out of her daughter. 
But Jesus said unto her, Let the children first be filled: for it is not meet to take the children’s bread and cast it to the dogs. 
But she answered and saith unto him, Yea, Lord; for even the dogs under the table eat of the children’s crumbs. 
And he said unto her, For this saying go thy way; the demon is gone out of thy daughter. 
And she went away unto her house, and found the demon gone out, and her daughter laid upon the bed. 
And again he went out from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and came unto the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the borders of Decapolis. 
And they bring unto him deaf man who had an impediment in his speech; and they beseech him to lay his hand upon him. 
And he took him aside from the multitude privately, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spat, and touched his tongue; 
and looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened. 
And straightaway his ears were opened, and the bond of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain. 
And he charged them that they should tell no man: but the more he charged them, so much the more a great deal they published it. 
And they were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things well; he maketh even the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak. 
