2 Chronicles.
Chapter 4.
He made also an altar of copper, twenty cubits being its length, and twenty cubits its breadth, and ten cubits its height. 
He made also the molten sea, being ten cubits from the one brim to the other, rounded all about, and it was five cubits in height: and a line of thirty cubits did encompass it round about. 
And likenesses of oxen were under it, encompassing it all round about, ten in a cubit, encircling the sea round about: the oxen were in two rows and were cast with it, when it was cast. 
It was standing upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east; and the sea was resting above upon them, and all their hinder parts were inward. 
And its thickness was a hand's breadth, and its brim like the brim of a cup, with lily-buds; and it could hold and contain three thousand baths. 
He made also ten lavers; and he placed five on the right hand, and five on the left, to wash in them: what belonged to the burnt-offering they rinsed off at them; but the sea was for the priests to wash in. 
And he made ten candlesticks of gold according to their prescribed manner: and he placed them in the temple, five on the right side, and five on the left. 
He made also ten tables, and he set them in the temple, five on the right side, and five on the left. And he made a hundred bowls of gold. 
And he made the court of the priests, and the great out-court, and doors for the out-court, and their doors he overlaid with copper. 
And the sea he placed on the right side toward the east, opposite to the south. 
And Churam made the pots, and the shovels, and the basins. And Churam made an end of doing the work which he made for king Solomon in the house of God: 
The two pillars, and the bowls, and the capitals on the top of the two pillars, and the two networks to cover the bowl-shaped capitals which were on the top of the pillars; 
And the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowl-shaped capitals which were upon the front of the pillars. 
The bases also did he make, and the lavers made he upon the bases. 
The one sea, and the twelve oxen under it, 
And the pots also, and the shovels, and the forks, and all their instruments, did Churam-Abiv make for king Solomon for the house of the Lord, of polished copper. 
In the plain of the Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay-ground between Succoth and Zeredathah. 
And Solomon made all these vessels in very great abundance; for the weight of the copper was not inquired into. 
And Solomon made all the vessels that pertained to the house of God; and the altar of gold also, and the tables whereon the show-bread was set; 
And the candlesticks with their lamps, to light them after the prescribed manner before the debir, of pure gold. 
And the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, were of gold, the purest of gold; 
And the knives, and the basins, and the spoons, and the censers were of pure gold; and the entrance of the house, its inner doors for the most holy place, and the doors of the house of the temple, were of gold. 
