Proverbs.
Chapter 10.
The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son causeth his father to rejoice; but a foolish son is the grief of his mother. 
Treasures of wickedness will not profit aught; but righteousness will deliver from death. 
The Lord will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish; but the sinful desires of the wicked will he cast away. 
He becometh poor that laboreth with an indolent hand, but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. 
He that gathereth in summer is an intelligent son; but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame. 
Blessings come upon the head of the righteous; but the mouth of the wicked covereth violence. 
The memory of the just is destined to be blessed; but the name of the wicked shall rot. 
The wise in heart will accept commandments; but he that is a fool in his speaking will stumble. 
He that walketh uprightly ever walketh securely; but he that perverteth his ways will be punished. 
He that winketh with the eye causeth vexation; and he that is a fool in his speaking will stumble. 
A source of life is the mouth of the righteous; but the mouth of the wicked covereth violence. 
Hatred stirreth up strifes; but love throweth a cover over all transgressions. 
On the lips of the man of understanding there is found wisdom: but a rod is for the back of him that is void of sense. 
Wise men treasure up knowledge; but the mouth of the foolish is an approaching terror. 
The wealth of the rich man is his strong town: the terror of the poor is their poverty. 
The labor of the righteous tendeth to life: the product of the wicked is for sin. 
On the way unto life is he that observeth correction; but he that forsaketh reproof is in error. 
He that hideth hatred hath lips of falsehood; and he that spreadeth abroad an evil report, is a fool. 
In a multitude of words transgression cannot be avoided; but he that refraineth his lips is intelligent. 
Like choice silver is the tongue of the righteous: the heart of the wicked is worth but very little. 
The lips of the righteous feed many: but fools die through lack of sense. 
The blessing of the Lord it is which maketh rich, and painful labor addeth nothing thereto. 
It is as sport to a fool to do wicked deeds; but a man of understanding hath wisdom. 
What the wicked dreadeth, that will come upon him: but the longing of the righteous will God grant. 
As the whirlwind passeth by, the wicked is no more; but the righteous is an everlasting foundation. 
As vinegar is to the teeth, and as smoke is to the eyes: so is the sluggard to those that send him. 
The fear of the Lord increaseth man's days; but the years of the wicked will be shortened. 
The expectation of the righteous is joy; but the hope of the wicked shall perish. 
The way of the Lord is a stronghold to the upright; but terror is destined to the workers of injustice. 
The righteous shall never be removed; but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth. 
The mouth of the just uttereth wisdom; but the tongue of perverseness shall be cut out. 
The lips of the righteous know how to obtain favor; but the mouth of the wicked speaketh perverseness. 
