Ezekiel.
Chapter 10.
Then I saw, and, behold, on the vault that was above the head of the cherubim, there appeared over them something like a sapphire stone, something similar in appearance to the likeness of a throne. 
And he said unto the man clothed in linen, and said, Go in between the wheels, under the cherub, and fill thy hands with coals of fire from between the cherubim, and throw them over the city. And he went in before my eyes. 
Now the cherubim were standing on the right side of the house, when the man went in: and the cloud filled the inner court. 
Then the glory of the Lord rose upward from the cherub, toward the threshold of the house: and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the Lord's glory. 
And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard as far as the outer court, like the voice of the Almighty God when he speaketh. 
And it came to pass, when he commanded the man clothed in linen, saying, Take fire from between the wheels, from between the cherubim, that he went in, and stood beside the wheel. 
And the one cherub stretched forth his hand from between the cherubim unto the fire that was between the cherubim, and lifted it up, and placed it into the hands of the one clothed in linen; who took it, and went out. 
And there became visible on the cherubim the form of a man's hand beneath their wings. 
And I saw, and, behold, there were four wheels by the cherubim, one wheel by the one cherub, and another wheel by the other cherub: and the appearance of the wheels was like the glitter of a chrysolite stone. 
And as for their appearances, the whole four had one likeness, as if a wheel were in the midst of another wheel. 
In their going, they went toward their four sides, they turned not round in their going; but to the place whither the head was turned they followed it, they turned not round in their going. 
And their whole body, and their back, and their hands, and their wings, as also the wheels, were full of eyes round about, even the wheels that belonged to all four of them. 
As for the wheels, they were called Galgal before my ears. 
And every one had four faces: the one face was the face of a cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and the third face was the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle. 
And the cherubim lifted themselves up. This is the living creature that I saw by the river Kebar. 
And when the cherubim went forward, the wheels went close by them; and when the cherubim lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the wheels also did not turn away from beside them. 
When those halted, these halted; and when those lifted themselves up, these lifted themselves up with them; for the spirit of the living creature was in them. 
And the glory of the Lord went forth from off the threshold of the house, and halted over the cherubim. 
And the cherubim lifted up their wings, and mounted up from the earth before my eyes as they went forth, and the wheels at the same time with them, and halted at the entrance of the east gate of the house of the Lord: and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. 
This is the living creature that I saw under the God of Israel by the river Kebar; and I understood that they were cherubim. 
Every one had four faces apiece, and every one had four wings; and the likeness of the hands of a man was under their wings. 
And the likeness of their faces was the same as the faces which I had seen by the river Kebar, their appearances and themselves: they went every one in the direction of his face. 
