Lamentations.
Chapter 4.
Oh how is the gold become dim! how is the most fine gold changed! how are the stones of the sanctuary poured out at the corners of every street. 
The precious sons of Zion, valued equal to pure gold, how are they now esteemed as earthen pitchers, the work of the hands of the potter! 
Even wild beasts offer the breast, they give suck to their young ones: the daughter of my people is become cruel, like the ostriches in the wilderness. 
The tongue of the suckling cleaveth to its palate by reason of thirst: babes ask for bread, there is not one to break it for them. 
Those that used to eat dainty food are desolate in the streets: they that were reared up on scarlet now embrace dunghills. 
For greater is the iniquity of the daughter of my people than the sin of Sodom, that was overthrown as it were in a moment, and no human hands were laid on her. 
Her crowned princes were purer than snow, they were whiter than milk, they were more brilliant in body than pearls, more than the sapphire, their countenance: 
Darker than black is now their visage; they are not to be recognized in the streets: their skin is shriveled fast upon their bones; it is dry, it is become like wood. 
Happier are those slain by the sword than those slain by hunger; for those poured forth their blood, being pierced through, —these perished without the fruits of the field. 
The hands of merciful women cooked their own children: they became food unto them in the downfall of the daughter of my people. 
The Lord hath let loose all his fury: he hath poured out the fierceness of his anger: and he hath kindled a fire in Zion, which hath devoured her foundations. 
The kings of the earth, and all the inhabitants of the world, would not believe that an adversary or an enemy could ever enter within the gates of Jerusalem. 
But it hath happened because of the sins of her prophets, the iniquities of her priests, that had shed in the midst of her the blood of the righteous. 
They wandered about blindly in the streets, they became defiled with blood; so that men were not able to touch their garments. 
Depart, ye unclean, they called out unto them: depart, depart, touch not. So they flee away and also wander about: men say among the nations, They shall no more sojourn there. 
The anger of the Lord hath divided them; he will no more look at them: the faces of the priests they respected not, and the elders they spared not. 
Even now our eyes anxiously wait for our valueless help: in our waiting have we waited for a nation that cannot help. 
They hunt our steps, that we cannot walk in our streets: our end is near, our days are full: for our end is come. 
Swifter were our pursuers than the eagles of heaven: upon the mountains did they hotly follow us: in the wilderness did they lie in wait for us. 
The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of the Lord, was caught in their pits, he, of whom we said, Under his shadow shall we live among the nations. 
Be glad and rejoice, O daughter of Edom, that dwellest in the land of 'Uz: also unto thee shall the cup pass; thou wilt be drunken, and make thyself naked. 
Brought to an end is thy iniquity, O daughter of Zion; He will no more carry thee away into exile: He visiteth thy iniquity, O daughter of Edom; He layeth open thy sins. 
