Proverbs.
Chapter 26.
As snow is in summer, and as rain in harvest: so is honor not seemly to a fool. 
As the bird cometh to flit away, as the swallow, to fly off: so will an undeserved curse not come to fulfillment. 
A whip is for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the fool's back. 
Do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest thou also become equal unto him. 
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes. 
He choppeth off the feet, and drinketh vexation, that sendeth important messages by the hand of a fool. 
Too feebly hang down the thighs on a lame man: so is a parable in the mouth of fools. 
As is the one that bindeth a stone fast in a sling, so is he that giveth honor to a fool. 
As a thorn that is come into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouth of fools. 
A master injureth all things when he hireth a fool or hireth mere rovers. 
As a dog returneth to his vomit, so doth a fool repeat to act in his folly. 
When thou seest a man wise in his own eyes, then is there more hope for a fool than for him. 
The slothful saith, There is a leopard in the way: a lion is between the streets. 
As a door turneth upon its hinges, so doth the slothful upon his bed. 
Hath the slothful hidden his hand in the dish, it wearieth him to bring it back again to his mouth. 
The slothful is wiser in his own eyes, than seven men that can give wise answers. 
As is one that taketh hold of a dog by the ears, so is he that passing by becometh excited about a dispute which concerneth him not. 
As one fatigueth himself shooting off firebrands, arrows, and death: 
So is the man that hath cheated his neighbor, and saith, Behold, I am only jesting. 
Where there is no wood, the fire goeth out: so where there is no whisperer, strife is silenced. 
As charcoals are added to burning coals, and wood to fire, so is a contentious man fitted to enkindle a dispute. 
The words of a whisperer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost chambers of the body. 
Like silver dross laid over an earthen vessel, so are burning lips with a bad heart. 
With his lips dissembleth he that hateth, and within himself layeth he up deceit: 
Though he make his voice sound ever so graciously, believe him not; for there are seven abominations in his heart. 
If one's hatred be covered by deception, then shall be laid bare his wickedness before a whole assembly. 
Whoso diggeth a pit will fall therein; and upon him that rolleth a stone, will it return. 
A lying tongue hateth those that are crushed by it; and a flattering mouth prepareth others' downfall. 
