Job.
Chapter 14.
Man born of a woman is short of days, and sated with harrowing trouble. 
Like a flower he cometh forth, and is cut down: and he fleeth like a shadow, and remaineth not. 
And yet on such a one dost thou open thy eyes, and me thou bringest into judgment with thee? 
Who can make a clean thing out of an unclean? not one thing. 
Seeing that his days are determined, the number of his months are fixed with thee, that thou hast set his bounds which he cannot pass: 
Turn thyself from him that he may recover from his pain, and be able to enjoy like a hired laborer his day. 
For there is hope for the tree: if it be cut down, it may still sprout again, while its young shoot will not cease. 
If even its root become old in the earth, and its stock die in the dust: 
Yet through the scent of water will it flourish again, and produce boughs as though It were newly planted. 
But man dieth, and lieth powerless: yea, the son of earth departeth—and where is he? 
The waters run off from the sea, and the river faileth and drieth up: 
So doth man lie down, and riseth not: till the heavens be no more, they will not awake, and will not be roused out of their sleep. 
Oh who would grant that thou mightest hide me in the nether world, that thou mightest conceal me, until thy wrath be appeased, that thou mightest set for me a fixed time, and remember me then! 
Or, when a man dieth, will he live again? all the days of my time of service would I then wait, till the hour of my release were come. 
Do thou call, and I will truly answer thee: have a desire for the work of thy hands. 
Yet now thou numberest my steps: and thou waitest not with the punishment of my sin. 
Sealed up in a bag is my transgression, and thou yet addest to my iniquity. 
But truly a falling mountain will crumble, and even a rock is moved out of its place. 
The water weareth out stones; thou sweepest away their fragments like the dust of the earth: and so thou destroyest the hope of man. 
Thou assailest him with might without ceasing, till he passeth away: thou changest his countenance, and sendest him off. 
His children acquire honor, but he knoweth it not: and they are esteemed little, but he perceiveth nothing of them. 
But his body. on him, feeleth pain, and his soul will mourn for him. 
