Deuteronomy.
Chapter 15.
At the end of every seven years shalt thou make a release. 
And this is the manner of the release: Every creditor shall release the loan which he hath lent to his neighbor; he shall not exact it of his neighbor, or of his brother; because the release year in honor of the Lord hath been proclaimed. 
Of a foreigner thou mayest exact payment; but that which is thine with thy brother shall thy hand release. 
Although indeed there should be no needy man among thee; for the Lord will greatly bless thee in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it: 
Yet only if thou wilt carefully hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe to do all this commandment which I command thee this day. 
For the Lord thy God blesseth thee, as he hath spoken unto thee; and thou shalt lend unto many nations, but thou shalt not borrow; and thou shalt rule over many nations, but over thee shall they not rule. 
If there be among thee a needy man, any one of thy brethren within any of thy gates in thy land which the Lord thy God giveth thee: thou shalt not harden thy heart, nor shut thy hand from thy needy brother. 
But thou shalt open wide thy hand unto him, and thou shalt surely lend him sufficient for his need, which his want requireth. 
Beware that there be not a wicked thought in thy heart, saying, The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand; and thy eye be thus evil against thy needy brother, so that thou wouldst give him nought; and if he cry concerning thee unto the Lord, it will be sin in thee: 
Thou shalt surely give him, and thy heart shall not be grieved when thou givest unto him; for because of this thing the Lord thy God will bless thee in all thy work, and in all the acquisition of thy hand. 
For the needy will not cease out of the land; therefore do I command thee, saying, Thou shalt open wide thy hand unto thy brother, to thy poor, and to thy needy, in thy land. 
If thy brother, the Hebrew, or a Hebrew woman, be sold unto thee, he shall serve thee six years; and in the seventh year shalt thou let him go free from thee. 
And when thou lettest him go out free from thee, thou shalt not let him go away empty: 
Thou shalt furnish him liberally out of thy flocks, and out of thy threshing-floor, and out of thy wine-press; wherewith the Lord thy God hath blessed thee, that shalt thou give unto him. 
And thou shalt remember that thou hast been a bond-man in the land of Egypt, and that the Lord thy God hath redeemed thee; therefore do I command thee this thing today. 
And it shall be, if he say unto thee, I will not go away from thee; because he loveth thee and thy house, because he is well with thee: 
Then shalt thou take an awl, and thrust it through his ear unto the door, and he shall be unto thee a servant for ever; and also unto thy maid-servant shalt thou do likewise. 
It shall not seem hard unto thee, when thou sendest him away free from thee, that for double the wages of a hired laborer hath he served thee six years; and the Lord thy God will bless thee in all that thou doest. 
All the first-born males that come of thy herds and of thy flocks shalt thou sanctify unto the Lord thy God: thou shalt do no work with the first-born of thy bullock, and not shear the first-born of thy sheep. 
Before the Lord thy God shalt thou eat it year by year, in the place which the Lord will choose, thou with thy household. 
And if there be any blemish thereon, if it be lame, or blind, or have any other ill blemish, thou shalt not sacrifice it unto the Lord thy God. 
Within thy gates shalt thou eat it, the unclean and the clean together, as the roebuck, and as the hart. 
Only the blood thereof shalt thou not eat: upon the ground shalt thou pour it out as water. 
