Job.
Chapter 31.
A covenant had I made with my eyes: how then should I fix my look on a virgin? 
And what then would have been my portion of God from above? and what lot of the Almighty from on high? 
Is not calamity ready for the unjust? and misfortune for the wrong-doers? 
Behold, he truly seeth my ways, and numbereth all my steps; 
And knoweth whether I have walked with vain desires, or if my foot hath hastened after deceit. 
Let him weigh me then in a righteous balance, and let God acknowledge my integrity, 
If my step have turned aside from the proper way, and my heart have walked after my eyes, and if any blemish have cleaved to my hands: 
Then let me sow, and let another eat; and let what I have growing be rooted out. 
If my heart have been beguiled toward a woman, or if I have lain in wait at my neighbor's door: 
Then may my wife labor at the mill for another, and may strangers ill-use her; 
For this would be incest; yea, it would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges; 
For it would be a fire that consumeth down to the place of corruption, and would root out all my products. 
If ever I cast aside the justice due to my man-servant and my maid-servant, when they contended with me: 
What then could I do when God should rise up? and when he should investigate, what could I answer him? 
Did not he that made me make him born or a woman? and did not the same one fashion us in the womb? 
If ever I denied the wish of the indigent, or ever allowed the eyes of the widow to fall in vain hopes; 
Or if ever I ate my bread by myself alone, and the fatherless did not eat thereof; 
(For from my youth he was brought up with me, as though we were of one father, and I have guided her as though she was sprung from my mother's womb;) 
If ever I saw any one perishing for want of clothing, or the needy without covering: 
If his loins have not blessed me, and if he have not been warmed with the fleece of my sheep; 
If I have swung my hand against the fatherless, because I saw in the gate those that would help me: 
Then may my shoulder fall from my shoulder-blade, and my arm be broken from the channel-bone; 
For dreaded by me was the calamitous punishment of God, and against his highness I can accomplish nothing. 
If I have made gold my confidence, or have said to the fine gold, Thou art my trust: 
If ever I rejoiced because my wealth was abundant, and because my hand had gotten much; 
If ever I looked at the light of the sun when he shone brightly and on the moon walking in splendor: 
And my heart became misled in secret, and my hand kissed my mouth: 
This also were an iniquity to be punished by the judge; for thus would I have denied the God that is above. 
If ever I rejoiced at the downfall of him that hated me, or was elated when evil befell him;— 
But I suffered not my mouth to sin by denouncing with a curse his soul:— 
If the men of my tent said not, Oh is there one that is not satisfied of his flesh;— 
In the street a stranger had not to lodge; my doors I held open to the roadside; 
If I covered up my transgressions like a common man, by hiding in my bosom my iniquity; 
Because I dreaded the great multitude, or because the contempt of families did terrify me, so that I kept silence, and dared not to go out of the door;— 
Oh who will bring me one that would hear me! behold, here is my plea; may the Almighty answer me; and any record which my opponent may have written,— 
Surely upon my shoulder would I carry it: I would bind it as a crown unto me. 
The number of my steps would I tell him: as to a prince would I go near unto him.— 
If my land ever cried out because of me, or if its furrows wept together; 
If I ever consumed its strength without payment, or caused the soul of its owners to grieve: 
Then may instead of wheat, thorns come forth, and instead of barley, cockle. (Here end the words of Job.) 
