Leviticus.
Chapter 25.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses on mount Sinai, saying, 
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land which I give unto you; then shall the land keep a sabbath unto the Lord. 
Six years shalt thou sow thy field, and six years shalt thou prune thy vineyard, and gather in the fruit thereof; 
But in the seventh year there shall be a sabbath of rest unto the land, a sabbath in honor of the Lord: thy field shalt thou not sow, and thy vineyard shalt thou not prune. 
That which groweth of its own accord of thy harvest shalt thou not reap, and the grapes of thy undressed vine shalt thou not gather: a year of rest shall it be unto the land. 
And the product of the sabbath of the land shall be unto you for food, for thee, and for thy man-servant, and for thy maid-servant, and for thy hired laborer, and for thy stranger, that sojourn with thee; 
And for thy cattle, and for the beasts that are in thy land, shall all its products be left for food. 
And thou shalt number unto thee seven sabbaths of years, seven years seven times; and the space of the seven sabbaths of years shall be unto thee forty and nine years. 
And then shalt thou cause the sound of the cornet to be heard, in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month: on the day of atonement shall ye sound the cornet throughout all your land. 
And ye shall hallow the fiftieth year, and proclaim freedom throughout the land unto all the inhabitants thereof; it shall be a jubilee unto you; and ye shall return, every man, unto his possession, and ye shall return, every man, unto his family. 
A jubilee shall this, the fiftieth year, be unto you: ye shall not sow, nor reap that which groweth of itself in it, nor gather in it the fruit of the undressed vines. 
For it is the jubilee; holy shall it be unto you: from the field shall ye eat the products thereof. 
In this year of the jubilee shall ye return, every man, unto his possession. 
And if thou sell aught unto thy neighbor, or buy aught of thy neighbor's hand, ye shall not overreach one the other; 
According to the number of years after the jubilee shalt thou buy of thy neighbor, according unto the number of harvest-years shall he sell unto thee; 
According to the multitude of years shalt thou increase the price thereof, and according to the fewness of years shalt thou diminish the price thereof; for a number of harvests doth he sell unto thee. 
And ye shall not overreach one the other; but thou shalt be afraid of thy God; for I am the Lord your God. 
And ye shall do my statutes, and my ordinances shall ye keep and do them; and then shall ye dwell in the land in safety. 
And the land shall yield its fruit, and ye shall eat your fill, and dwell in safety therein. 
And if ye should say, What shall we eat in the seventh year? behold, we are not permitted to sow, and we cannot gather in our harvest: 
Then will I command my blessing unto you in the sixth year, and it shall bring forth a harvest for three years. 
And when ye sow in the eighth year, then shall ye eat yet of the old harvest; until the ninth year, until its harvest come in, shall ye eat of the old store. 
And the land shall not be sold for a permanence to the purchaser; for the land is mine; for strangers and sojourners are ye with me. 
And in all the land of your possession ye shall grant a redemption for the land. 
If thy brother become poor, and sell away some of his possession: then may his nearest of kin come and redeem what his brother hath sold. 
And if the man have none to redeem it, and he acquire the means, sufficient to be able to redeem it himself: 
Then let him reckon the years since his sale, and restore the overplus unto the man to whom he sold it; and so shall he return unto his possession. 
But if his means do not suffice to enable him to restore it to him: then shall that which he hath sold remain in the hand of him that hath bought it until the year of the jubilee; and it shall be freed in the jubilee, and he shall return unto his possession. 
And if a man sell a dwelling-house in a walled city: then shall the time of redemption last till the end of the year of his sale; a full year shall his time of redemption last. 
And if it be not redeemed within the expiration of a full year: then shall the house which is in the walled city remain as a permanence to him that bought it throughout his generations; it shall not become freed in the jubilee. 
But the houses of the villages which have no wall round about them shall be counted as the fields of the country: they shall have the right of redemption, and they shall become freed in the jubilee. 
And respecting the cities of the Levites, the houses of the cities of their possession, a perpetual right of redemption shall belong to the Levites. 
And if a man of the Levites redeem something: then shall the house that was sold, and the city of his possession, become freed in the jubilee; for the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the children of Israel. 
And a field of the suburbs of their cities shall not be sold; for a perpetual possession is it unto them. 
And if thy brother become poor, and fall in decay with thee: then shalt thou assist him, yea a stranger, or a sojourner, that he may live with thee. 
Thou shalt not take of him any usury or increase; but thou shalt be afraid of thy God: that thy brother may live with thee. 
Thy money shalt thou not give him upon usury, nor lend him thy victuals for increase. 
I am the Lord your God, who have brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, to give unto you the land of Canaan, to be unto you a God. 
And if thy brother become poor near thee, and be sold unto thee: thou shalt not compel him to work as a bond-servant. 
But as a hired laborer, as a sojourner, shall he be with thee; until the year of the jubilee shall he serve with thee: 
And then shall he depart from thee, he and his children with him; and he shall return unto his own family, and unto the possession of his fathers shall he return. 
For my servants are they, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt: they shall not be sold as bond-men are sold. 
Thou shalt not rule over him with rigor; but thou shalt have fear of thy God. 
But thy bond-man, and thy bond-woman that shall remain thine, shall be of the nations that are round about you; of them may ye buy bond-man and bond-woman. 
And also of the children of the strangers that sojourn with you, of them may ye buy, and of their families that are with you, which they have begotten in your land; and they shall remain to you as a possession. 
And ye may transfer them as an inheritance for your children after you, to inherit them for a possession; you may hold them to service for ever; but over your brethren the children of Israel, one over the other, ye shall not rule with rigor. 
And if a stranger or sojourner wax rich near thee, and thy brother become poor near him, and he sell himself unto the sojourning stranger near thee, or to a descendant of a stranger's family: 
After he hath sold himself shall he have the right of redemption; one of his brethren may redeem him. 
Either his uncle, or his uncle's son, may redeem him, or any that is near of kin unto him of his family may redeem him; or if he obtain the means, he may redeem himself. 
And he shall reckon with him that bought him from the year that he sold himself to him unto the year of the jubilee: and the price of his sale shall be according to the number of years, as the time of a hired laborer shall he have been with him. 
If there be yet many years, according to them shall he return the price of his redemption out of his purchase-money. 
And if there remain but few years unto the year of the jubilee: then shall he reckon with him; according to his years shall he return the price of his redemption. 
As a laborer hired from year to year shall he be with him; he shall not rule over him with rigor before thy eyes. 
And if he be not redeemed by one of these means: then shall he go out in the year of the jubilee, both he, and his children with him. 
For unto me are the children of Israel servants, my servants are they, whom I have brought forth out of the land of Egypt: I am the Eternal your God. 
