Leviticus.
Chapter 4.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If any person do sin through ignorance against any of the prohibitions of the Lord which ought not to be done, and do any of them; 
If the anointed priest do sin to bring guiltiness on the people: then shall he bring near for his sin, which he hath committed, a young bullock without blemish, unto the Lord, for a sin-offering. 
And he shall bring the bullock unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the Lord; and he shall lay his hand upon the head of the bullock, and kill the bullock before the Lord. 
And the anointed priest shall take some of the bullock's blood, and bring it into the tabernacle of the congregation: 
And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood; and he shall sprinkle of the blood seven times before the Lord, before the vail of the sanctuary. 
And the priest shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar of the incense of spices before the Lord, which is in the tabernacle of the congregation; and all the remaining blood of the bullock shall he pour out at the bottom of the altar of burnt-offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
And all the fat of the bullock of the sin-offering shall he take off from the same: the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is on the flanks, and the midriff above the liver, with the kidneys, shall he remove it; 
As it is taken off from the bullock of the sacrifice of peace-offering; and the priest shall burn the same upon the altar of burnt-offering. 
And the skin of the bullock, and all his flesh, with his head, and with his legs, and his inwards, and his dung, 
Even the whole bullock, shall he carry forth without the camp, unto a clean place, to where the ashes are poured out, and burn him on the wood with fire; upon where the ashes are poured out shall he be burnt. 
And if the whole congregation of Israel sin through ignorance, and a thing be hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they do any one of all the prohibitions of the Lord which ought not to be done, and they become guilty; 
When now the sin becometh known, through which they have sinned: then shall the congregation offer a young bullock for a sin-offering, and shall bring him before the tabernacle of the congregation. 
And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon the head of the bullock before the Lord; and they shall kill the bullock before the Lord. 
And the anointed priest shall bring some of the bullock's blood into the tabernacle of the congregation: 
And the priest shall dip his finger in some of the blood, and sprinkle it seven times before the Lord, before the vail. 
And some of the blood shall be put upon the horns of the altar which is before the Lord, that is in the tabernacle of the congregation; and all the remaining blood shall he pour out at the bottom of the altar of burnt-offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
And all his fat shall he take from him, and burn it upon the altar. 
And he shall do with the bullock as he did with the bullock of the sin-offering; so shall he do with this: and the priest shall make an atonement for them, and it shall be forgiven unto them. 
And he shall carry forth the bullock to without the camp, and burn him as he burnt the first bullock; it is a sin-offering of the congregation. 
If a ruler should sin, and do any one of the prohibitions of the Lord his God which ought not to be done, through ignorance, and become guilty; 
If now his sin, wherein he hath sinned, come to his knowledge: he shall bring as his offering, a goat, a male, without blemish; 
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the goat, and kill it on the place where they kill the burnt-offering before the Lord; it is a sin-offering. 
And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin-offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt-offering; and the remainder of its blood shall he pour out at the bottom of the altar of burnt-offering. 
And all its fat shall he burn upon the altar, as the fat of the sacrifice of peace-offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven unto him. 
And if any person of the common people should sin through ignorance, by his doing any one of the prohibitions of the Lord, which ought not to be done, and become guilty; 
If now his sin, which he hath committed, come to his knowledge: then shall he bring as his offering, a goat, a female, without blemish, for his sin which he hath committed; 
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin-offering, and slay the sin-offering on the place of the burnt-offering. 
And the priest shall take some of the blood thereof with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt-offering; and all the remaining blood thereof shall he pour out at the bottom of the altar. 
And all the fat thereof shall he remove, as the fat is removed from off the sacrifice of peace-offering; and the priest shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savor unto the Lord: and the priest shall make an atonement for him, and it shall be forgiven unto him. 
And if he bring a sheep for a sin-offering, a female without blemish shall he bring it. 
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin-offering, and slay it for a sin-offering on the place where they kill the burnt-offering. 
And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin-offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt-offering; and all the remaining blood thereof shall he pour out at the bottom of the altar: 
And all the fat thereof shall he remove, as the fat of the sheep is removed from the sacrifice of the peace-offering; and the priest shall burn the same upon the altar, upon the offerings made by fire unto the Lord; and the priest shall make an atonement for him for his sin that he hath committed, and it shall be forgiven unto him. 
