Psalms.
Chapter 71.
In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust; let me never be made ashamed. 
In thy righteousness do thou deliver me and release me: incline thy ear unto me, and save me. 
Be thou unto me a rocky habitation, whereunto I may continually resort, which thou hast ordained to save me; for my rock and my strong-hold art thou. 
O my God, release me out of the hand of the wicked, out of the grasp of the unrighteous and violent man. 
For thou art my hope, O Lord Eternal: thou art my trust from my youth. 
By thee have I been supported from my birth: thou art he that took me out of my mother's womb: of thee is my praise continually. 
As a wonderful token have I been unto many; but thou art my strong refuge. 
My mouth shall be filled with thy praise, and with thy glory all the day. 
Cast me not off in the time of old age: when my strength faileth, forsake me not. 
For my enemies speak of me; and they that watch for my soul take counsel together, 
Saying, “God hath forsaken him: pursue and seize him: for there is none to deliver.” 
O God, be not far from me: O my God, hasten to my help. 
Let those be made ashamed, let them perish, that are adversaries to my soul: let those be covered with reproach and dishonor that seek my unhappiness. 
But I will continually hope, and will add yet more to all thy praise. 
My mouth shall relate thy righteousness, all the day thy salvation; for I know not their numbers. 
I will come to praise the mighty deeds of the Lord Eternal: I will make mention of thy righteousness, yea, thine only. 
O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto I ever tell of thy wondrous deeds. 
Therefore also even in old age, and when I am grayheaded, O God, forsake me not: until I have told of thy strength unto this generation, to every one that may come of thy might. 
And thy righteousness, O God, reacheth even to the height, thou, who hast done great things: O God, who is like thee! 
Thou, who hast shown me great distresses and misfortunes, wilt again revive me; and from the depths of the earth wilt thou bring me up again. 
Thou wilt increase my greatness, and wilt turn round and comfort me. 
Also I, I will thank thee with the psaltery, for thy truth, O my God: I will sing unto thee with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel. 
My lips shall shout joyfully when I sing unto thee; and my soul too, which thou hast redeemed. 
Also my tongue shall speak all the day of thy righteousness; for ashamed, for put to the blush are those that seek my unhappiness. 
