Leviticus.
Chapter 18.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, I am the Lord your God. 
After the doings of the Land of Egypt, wherein ye have dwelt, shall ye not do; and after the doings of the land of Canaan whither I am bringing you, shall ye not do; and in their customs shall ye not walk. 
My ordinances shall ye do, and my statutes shall ye keep, to walk therein: I am the Lord your God. 
And ye shall keep my statutes, and my ordinances, which if a man do, he shall live in them: I am the Lord. 
None of you shall approach to any that are near of kin to him, to uncover their nakedness: I am the Lord. 
The nakedness of thy father, or the nakedness of thy mother, shalt thou not uncover: she is thy mother, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. 
The nakedness of thy father's wife shalt thou not uncover: it is thy father's nakedness. 
The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter of thy father, or the daughter of thy mother, whether she be born at home, or born abroad,—even the nakedness of any of these shalt thou not uncover. 
The nakedness of thy son's daughter, or of thy daughter's daughter,—even the nakedness of any of these, shalt thou not uncover; for theirs is thy own nakedness. 
The nakedness of thy father's wife's daughter, begotten of thy father, she is thy sister,—thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. 
The nakedness of thy father's sister shalt thou not uncover: she is thy father's near kinswoman. 
The nakedness of thy mother's sister shalt thou not uncover; for she is thy mother's near kinswoman. 
The nakedness of thy father's brother shalt thou not uncover: his wife shalt thou not approach, she is thy aunt. 
The nakedness of thy daughter-in-law shalt thou not uncover: she is thy son's wife, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. 
The nakedness of thy brother's wife shalt thou not uncover: it is thy brother's nakedness. 
The nakedness of a woman and her daughter shalt thou not uncover: her son's daughter, or her daughter's daughter shalt thou not take, to uncover her nakedness; for they are near kinswomen; it is incest. 
And a woman together with her sister shalt thou not take, to vex her, to uncover her nakedness, beside the other, in her lifetime. 
And a woman in the separation of her uncleanness shalt thou not approach, to uncover her nakedness. 
And with thy neighbor's wife shalt thou not lie carnally, to defile thyself with her. 
And any of thy seed shalt thou not let pass through the fire to Molech, and thou shalt not profane the name of thy God: I am the Lord. 
And with a man shalt thou not lie, as with a woman: it is an abomination. 
And with any beast shalt thou not lie to defile thyself therewith; neither shall any woman stand before a beast to lie down thereto: it is confusion. 
Do not defile yourselves through any of these things.; for through all these have become defiled the nations which I cast out before you: 
And the land became defiled; wherefore I have visited its iniquity upon it, and the land itself vomited out its inhabitants. 
Ye shall therefore keep my statutes and my ordinances, and ye shall not commit any of these abominations; neither any of your own nation, nor the stranger that sojourneth among you; 
(For all these abominations have the men of the land done, who were before you, and the land hath become defiled;) 
That the land may not vomit you out also, when ye defile it, as it hath vomited out the nations that were before you. 
For whosoever shall commit any of these abominations,— even the souls that commit them shall be cut off from among their people. 
Therefore shall ye keep my charge, so that ye commit not any one of these abominable customs, which were committed before you, and that ye do not defile yourselves therewith: I am the Lord your God. 
