Ezekiel.
Chapter 28.
And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 
Son of man, say unto the prince of Tyre, Thus hath said the Lord Eternal, Whereas thy heart was lifted up, and thou saidst, A god am I, on the seat of the gods do I dwell, in the heart of the seas; yet thou art but a man, and not God, while thou esteemest thy mind equal to the mind of God; 
Behold, thou wast wiser than Daniel; no secret was obscure to thee; 
With thy wisdom and with thy understanding hadst thou gotten thee riches, and hadst gotten gold and silver into thy treasuries; 
By the abundance of thy wisdom in thy traffic hadst thou increased thy riches; and thy heart was lifted up because of thy riches: 
Therefore thus hath said the Lord Eternal, Because thou hast esteemed thy mind equal to the mind of God, 
Therefore, behold, will I bring over thee strangers, the fiercest • of nations; and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they shall profane thy elegance. 
Down to the grave will they cast thee, and thou shalt die the deaths of the slain in the heart of the seas. 
Wilt thou then say, I am God, before him that slayeth thee? when thou art but a man, and no God, in the hand of him that fatally wounded thee. 
The deaths of the uncircumcised shalt thou die by the hand of strangers; for I have spoken it, saith the Lord Eternal. 
And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 
Son of man, take up a lamentation concerning the king of Tyre, and say unto him, Thus hath said the Lord Eternal, Thou wast complete in outline, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty. 
In 'Eden the garden of God didst thou abide; every precious stone was thy covering, the sardius, the topaz, and the diamond, the chrysolite, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbuncle, and gold; thy tabrets and thy flutes of artificial workmanship were prepared in thee on the day thou wast created. 
Thou wast a cherub with outspread covering wings; and I had set thee upon the holy mountain of God as thou wast; in the midst of the stones of fire didst thou wander. 
Perfect wast thou in thy ways from the day that thou wast created, till wickedness was found in thee. 
By the abundance of thy commerce thou wast filled to thy centre with violence, and thou didst sin: therefore I degraded thee out of the mountain of God; and I destroyed thee, O covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire. 
Thy heart was lifted up through thy beauty, thou didst corrupt thy wisdom by reason of thy elegance: therefore I cast thee down to the ground, before kings did I set thee that they might gaze on thee. 
Through the abundance of thy iniquities, through the wickedness of thy commerce didst thou profane thy sanctuaries: therefore brought I forth fire from the midst of thee, this devoured thee, and I changed thee to ashes upon the earth before the eyes of all those that saw thee. 
All that know thee among the people are astonished concerning thee: thou art as though thou hadst not been, and thou shalt not be any more for ever. 
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
Son of man, set thy face against Zidon, and prophesy against it, 
And thou shalt say, Thus hath said the Lord Eternal, Behold, I am against thee, O Zidon, and I will be honored in the midst of thee: and they shall know that I am the Lord, when I execute judgments on her, and will be sanctified on her. 
And I will send out against her pestilence, and blood-shedding into her streets; and the deadly wounded shall be felled in the midst of her by the sword that is against her from every side: and they shall know that I am the Lord. 
And there shall be no more unto the house of Israel a pricking brier, nor painful thorn from all that are round about them, that despoil them: and they shall know that I am the Lord Eternal. 
Thus hath said the Lord Eternal, When I gather the house of Israel from the people among whom they are scattered, and shall be sanctified on them before the eyes of the nations: then shall they dwell in their land that I have given to my servant Jacob. 
And they shall dwell thereupon in safety, and they shall build houses, and plant vineyards; yea, they shall dwell in safety; when I execute judgments on all those that despoiled them from round about them: and they shall know that I am the Lord their God. 
