Leviticus.
Chapter 17.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Speak unto Aaron, and unto his sons, and unto all the children of Israel, and say unto them, This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded, saying, 
Any man whatsoever of the house of Israel, that killeth an ox, or a sheep, or a goat, in the camp, or that killeth it out of the camp, 
And bringeth it not to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer it as an offering unto the Lord before the tabernacle of the Lord: as blood-guiltiness shall it be imputed unto that man, blood hath he shed; and that man shall be cut off from among his people. 
In order that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices, which they slay in the open field, and bring them unto the Lord, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, unto the priest, and slay them as sacrifices of peace-offerings unto the Lord. 
And the priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar of the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation; and he shall burn the fat for a sweet savor unto the Lord. 
So that they shall offer no more their sacrifices unto evil spirits, after which they have gone astray: a statute for ever shall this be unto them throughout their generations. 
And unto them shalt thou say, Whatsoever man there be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who may sojourn among them, that offereth a burnt-offering or a sacrifice, 
And bringeth it not unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer it unto the Lord: even that man shall be cut off from among his people. 
And if there be any man of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among them, that eateth any manner of blood: I will set my face against the person that eateth the blood, and I will cut him off from among his people. 
For the life of the flesh is in the blood; and I have appointed it for you upon the altar to make an atonement for your souls; for the blood it is that maketh an atonement for the soul. 
Therefore have I said unto the children of Israel, No one of you shall eat blood, and the stranger that sojourneth among you shall not eat blood. 
And if there be any man whatsoever of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among them, who catcheth by hunting any beast or fowl that may be eaten: then shall he pour out the blood thereof, and cover it up with dust. 
For the life of all flesh is its blood, on which its life dependeth; therefore have I said unto the children of Israel, The blood of every manner of flesh shall ye not eat; for the life of all flesh is its blood, every one who eateth it shall be cut off. 
And every person that eateth that which hath died of itself, or that which was torn by beasts, be this one born in your own country, or a stranger, shall both wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening, when he shall be clean. 
But if he wash them not, nor bathe his flesh, then shall he bear his iniquity. 
