1 Chronicles.
Chapter 16.
And they brought in the ark of God, and set it in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it; and they offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before God. 
And when David had made an end of offering the burnt-offerings and the peace-offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord. 
And he dealt out to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to every one a loaf of bread, and a piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine. 
And he placed before the ark of the Lord several of the Levites as ministers, and to chaunt hymns, and to give praise and thanks unto the Lord the God of Israel: 
Assaph the chief, and next to him Zechariah; Je'iel, and Shemiramoth, and Jechiel, and Matthithyah, and Eliab, and Benayahu, and 'Obed-edom; and Je'iel with psalteries and with harps; but Assaph played aloud with the cymbals. 
And Benayahu and Jachaziel the priests were with the trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God. 
On that day—then did David appoint for the first time to give thanks to the Lord through means of Assaph and his brethren. 
O give thanks unto the Lord; call on his name; make known among the people his deeds. 
Sing unto him, sing praises unto him: speak of all his wonderful works. 
Glorify yourselves in his holy name: let the heart of those rejoice that seek the Lord. 
Inquire after the Lord and his strength: seek his presence evermore. 
Remember his wonderful works which he hath done, his tokens, and the decrees of his mouth; 
O ye seed of Israel his servant, ye children of Jacob, his elect. 
He is the Lord our God: over all the earth are his decrees. 
Remember ye for ever his covenant, the word which he hath commanded to the thousandth generation. 
Which he covenanted with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac; 
And which he established unto Jacob as a statute, unto Israel as an everlasting covenant; 
Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, as the portion of your inheritance; 
When ye were but few men in number; yea, very few, and strangers in it. 
And when they wandered from one nation to another, and from one kingdom to another people: 
He suffered no man to oppress them; yea, he reproved kings for their sake. 
Saying, “Touch not my anointed, and do my prophets no harm.”— 
Sing unto the Lord all ye lands: announce from day to day his salvation. 
Relate among the nations his glory: among all the people his wonderful deeds. 
For great is the Lord, and greatly praised; and he is to be feared above all gods. 
For all the gods of the people are idols: but the Lord hath made the heavens. 
Majesty and honor are in his presence, strength and gladness are in his place. 
Ascribe unto the Lord, O ye families of people, ascribe unto the Lord glory and strength. 
Ascribe unto the Lord the glory due unto his name; take up an offering, and come into his presence; bow down before the Lord in the beauty of holiness. 
Tremble before him, all ye lands! Also the world standeth firmly, that it be not moved. 
Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; and let men say among the nations, The Lord reigneth. 
Let the sea roar, with all that filleth it: let the fields rejoice, and all that is therein. 
Then shall the trees of the forest sing joyfully at the presence of the Lord; because he cometh to judge the earth. 
O give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good; because unto everlasting endureth his kindness. 
And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather us together, and deliver us from the nations, that we may give thanks to thy holy name, to glorify ourselves in thy praise. 
Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel from everlasting even unto everlasting. And all the people said, Amen, and praise unto the Lord. 
And he left there in charge before the ark of the covenant of the Lord Assaph and his brethren, to minister before the ark continually, at the work of every day on its day, 
And 'Obed-edom with their brethren, sixty and eight, and 'Obed-edom the son of Jeduthun and Chossah to be gatekeepers; 
And Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests, before the tabernacle of the Lord, in the high-place that was at Gib'on, 
To offer burnt-offerings unto the Lord upon the altar of the burnt-offering continually at morning and at evening, and this in accordance with all that is written in the law of the Lord which he had commanded concerning Israel; 
And with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest that were selected who were expressed by name, to give thanks to the Lord, because unto everlasting endureth his kindness; 
And with them, with Heman and Jeduthun, the trumpets and cymbals to play aloud, and the musical instruments of God; and the sons of Jeduthun to be for the service at the gate. 
And all the people went every man to his house; and David turned about to bless his house. 
