Deuteronomy.
Chapter 2.
Then we turned, and took our journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea, as the Lord had spoken unto me: and we traveled around mount Seir many days. 
And the Lord said unto me, as followeth, 
Ye have traveled long enough around this mountain; turn yourselves northward. 
And the people command thou, saying, Ye are passing by the border of your brethren the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir; and they will be afraid of you; therefore take ye good heed unto yourselves; 
Do not contend with them; for I will not give unto you of their land, even so much as a foot's breadth; because unto Esau have I given mount Seir for an inheritance. 
Food shall ye buy of them for money, that ye may eat; and water also shall ye buy of them for money, that ye may drink. 
For the Lord thy God hath blessed thee in all the works of thy hand; he hath provided for thy wandering through this great wilderness: these forty years the Lord thy God hath been with thee; thou hast lacked nothing. 
And we passed away from our brethren the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, from the way through the plain, from Elath, and from 'Ezyon-gaber. And we turned and passed the way of the wilderness of Moab. 
And the Lord said unto me, Do not attack the Moabites, nor contend with them in battle; for I will not give thee from their land any inheritance, because unto the children of Lot have I given 'Ar for an inheritance. 
The Emim in times past dwelt therein, a people great, and numerous, and tall as the 'Anakim; 
As Rephaim were also they accounted, equally with the 'Anakim; and the Moabites called them Emim. 
And in Seir dwelt the Chorim in times past; but the children of Esau drove them out, and they destroyed them from before them, and dwelt in their stead; as Israel hath done unto the land of his inheritance, which the Lord hath given unto them. 
Now rise up, and get you over the brook Zered; and we passed over the brook Zered. 
And the time which we came from Kadesh-barnea', until we had passed over the brook Zered, was thirty and eight years; until all the generation of the men of war were spent from out the midst of the camp, as the Lord had sworn unto them. 
And also the hand of the Lord was against them, to destroy them from the midst of the camp; until they were spent. 
So it came to pass, when all the men of war were spent by, dying from the midst of the people, 
That the Lord spoke unto me, saying, 
Thou art passing this day by the border of Moab, by 'Ar, 
And thou comest nigh opposite the children of 'Ammon: do not attack them, nor contend with them; for I will not give unto thee of the land of the children of 'Ammon any inheritance; because unto the children of Lot have I given it for an inheritance. 
As the land of Rephaim was it also accounted: Rephaim dwelt therein in times past; and the 'Ammonites called them Zamzummim; 
A people great, and numerous, and tall, as the 'Anakim; but the Lord destroyed them before them; and they drove them out, and dwelt in their stead: 
As he hath done to the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir, from before whom he destroyed the Chorim; and they drove them out and dwelt in their stead, even unto this day. 
And the 'Avvim, who dwelt in open towns, as far as unto Gazzah,—the Caphtorim, who came forth out of Caphtor, destroyed them, and dwelt in their stead. 
Rise ye up, set forward, and pass over the brook Arnon; behold I have given into thy hand Sichon the king of Cheshbon, the Emorite, and his land: begin to drive him out, and contend with him in battle. 
This day will I begin to put the dread of thee and the fear of thee upon the nations that are under the whole heaven; whoever will hear the report of thee, shall tremble, and shall quake because of thee. 
And I sent messengers out of the wilderness of Kedemoth unto Sichon, the king of Cheshbon, with words of peace, saying, 
Let me pass through thy land: always by the highway will I go along; I will not turn unto the right hand or unto the left. 
Food shalt thou sell me for money, that I may eat; and water for money shalt thou give me, that I may drink: only let me pass through on foot; 
(As the children of Esau who dwell in Seir, and the Moabites who dwell in 'Ar, have done unto me:) until that I shall pass over the Jordan into the land which the Lord our God giveth us. 
But Sichon, the king of Cheshbon, would not suffer our passing by him; for the Lord thy God had hardened his spirit, and had made obstinate his heart, that he might deliver him into thy hand, as hath happened this day. 
And the Lord said unto me, Behold, I have begun to give up Sichon and his land before thee: begin to drive him out, that thou mayest inherit his land. 
And Sichon came out against us, he and all his people, to the battle at Yahaz. 
And the Lord our God gave him up before us; and we smote him, and his sons, and all his people. 
And we conquered all his cities at that time, and devoted every inhabited city, and the women, and the little ones; we left none that escaped. 
Only the cattle we took as booty unto ourselves, and the spoil of the cities which we had captured. 
From 'Aro'er, which is by the bank of the brook of Arnon, and the city that is in the brook, even unto Gil'ad, there was not one city which was too strong for us; the whole did the Lord our God give up before us. 
Only unto the land of the children of 'Ammon didst thou not come nigh, unto the whole margin of the brook Yabbok, and the cities in the mountain, and unto whatsoever the Lord our God had forbidden us. 
