Joshua.
Chapter 11.
And it came to pass, that, when Yabin the king of Chazor heard these things, he sent to Yobab the king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph, 
And to the kings that were at the north, on the mountains, and in the plains, south of Kinneroth, and in the lowlands, and in the district of Dor on the west, 
To the Canaanites on the east and on the west, and to the Emorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Jebusites in the mountains, and to the Hivites under Chermon in the land of Mizpah. 
And they went out, they and all their camps with them, much people, even as the sand that is upon the sea-shore in multitude, and with very many horses and chariots. 
And all these kings assembled themselves together, and they came and encamped together at the waters of Merom, to fight against Israel. 
And the Lord said unto Joshua, Be not afraid because of them; for tomorrow about this time will I give all of them up slain before Israel: their horses shalt thou hamstring and their chariots shalt thou burn with fire. 
And Joshua and all the people of war with him came upon them by the waters of Merom suddenly; and they fell upon them. 
And the Lord delivered them into the hand of Israel, who smote them, and pursued them unto great Zidon, and unto Missrephoth-mayim, and unto the valley of Mizpeh eastward; and they smote them, until they left them none that escaped. 
And Joshua did unto them as the Lord had said unto him: their horses he hamstringed and their chariots he burnt with fire. 
And Joshua at that time turned back, and captured Chazor, and its kings he smote with the sword; for Chazor aforetimes was the head of all these kingdoms. 
And they smote all the souls that were therein with the edge of the sword, and devoted them; there was not left any one having breath; and Chazor he burnt with fire. 
And all the cities of these kings, and all their kings, did Joshua capture, and he smote them with the edge of the sword, and he devoted them, as Moses the servant of the Lord had commanded. 
But as for the cities that had been left standing in their strength, these did Israel not burn: save Chazor only did Joshua burn. 
And all the spoil of these cities, and the cattle, did the children of Israel take as booty unto themselves; but all the men they smote with the edge of the sword, until they had destroyed them: they left not any one having breath. 
As the Lord had commanded Moses his servant, so did Moses command Joshua, and so did Joshua: he left nothing undone of all that the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And Joshua took all that land, the mountain, and all the south country, and all the land of Goshen, and the lowlands, and the plain, and the mountain of Israel, and its lowlands; 
From the bald mountain that goeth up to Seir, even unto Baal-gad in the valley of Lebanon under mount Chermon; and all their kings he captured, and smote them, and slew them. 
A long time did Joshua make war with all these kings. 
There was not a city that made peace with the children of Israel, save the Hivites the inhabitants of Gib'on: the whole they took by war. 
For of the Lord it was to harden their heart, that they should come against Israel in battle, in order to destroy them utterly, that they might obtain no favor: but in order that he might exterminate them, as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And Joshua came at that time, and cut off the 'Anakim from the mountains, from Hebron, from Debir, from 'Anab, and from the whole mountain of Judah, and from the whole mountain of Israel: with their cities did Joshua destroy them utterly. 
There was none of the 'Anakim left in the land of the children of Israel: only in Gazzah, in Gath, and in Ashdod, there remained some. 
And Joshua' took the whole land, all just as the Lord had spoken unto Moses; and Joshua gave it for an inheritance unto Israel, according to their divisions by their tribes. And the land rested from war. 
