Leviticus.
Chapter 3.
And if his oblation be a sacrifice of peace-offering, if he offer it of the herds, whether it be a male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the Lord. 
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and the sons of Aaron the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about. 
And he shall offer the sacrifice of the peace-offering, as a fire-offering unto the Lord, the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is on the flanks, and the midriff above the liver, with the kidneys, shall he remove it. 
And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar, upon the burnt-offering, which is upon the wood that is on the fire: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the Lord. 
And if of the flocks be his offering for a sacrifice of peace-offering unto the Lord, male or female, without blemish, shall he offer it. 
If he offer a sheep for his offering, then shall he bring it near before the Lord. 
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle its blood upon the altar round about. 
And he shall offer the sacrifice of the peace-offering, as a fire-offering unto the Lord, the best part thereof, the whole rump, hard by the backbone shall he take it off; and the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards; 
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is on the flanks, and the midriff above the liver, with the kidneys, shall he remove it. 
And the priest shall burn it upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire unto the Lord. 
And if a goat be his offering, then shall he bring it near before the Lord. 
And he shall lay his hand upon its head, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle its blood upon the altar round about. 
And he shall offer thereof his offering, as a fire-offering unto the Lord, the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards. 
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is on the flanks, and the midriff above the liver, with the kidneys shall he remove it. 
And the priest shall burn them upon the altar; as the food of the offering made by fire for a sweet savor, is all the fat unto the Lord. 
A perpetual statute shall it be for your generations throughout all your dwellings: no fat nor blood shall ye eat. 
