Exodus.
Chapter 6.
Then said the Lord unto Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh; for with a strong hand shall he send them away, and with a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land. 
And God spoke unto Moses, and said unto him, I am the Lord: 
And I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, by the name of God, the Almighty, but by my name The Eternal was I not made known to them. 
And as I did also establish my covenant with them, to give unto them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherein they sojourned: 
So have I also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians compel to labor; and I have remembered my covenant. 
Therefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the Eternal, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will release you from their bondage, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm, and with great judgments: 
And I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you for a God; and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God, who bringeth you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. 
And I will bring you in unto the land, concerning which I did lift up my hand to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it you for a heritage: I am the Lord. 
And Moses spoke thus unto the children of Israel; but they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage. 
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Go in, speak unto Pharaoh the king of Egypt, that he shall let the children of Israel go out of his land. 
And Moses spoke before the Lord, saying, Behold, the children of Israel have not hearkened unto me: how then shall Pharaoh hear me, whereas I am of uncircumcised lips? 
And the Lord spoke unto Moses and unto Aaron, and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel, and unto Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to bring forth the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt. 
These are the heads of their family divisions: The sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel: Chanoch, and Pallu, Chezron, and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben. 
And the sons of Simeon: Yemuel, and Yamin, and Ohad, and Yachin, and Zochar, and Shaul the son of the Canaanitish woman; these are the families of Simeon. 
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon, and Kehath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi were one hundred and thirty and seven years. 
The sons of Gershon: Libni, and Shimi, according to their families. 
And the sons of Kehath: Amram, and Yizhar, and Chebron, and 'Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kehath were one hundred and thirty and three years. 
And the sons of Merari: Machli and Mushi; these are the families of Levi according to their generations. 
And Amram took himself Yochebed his aunt for wife; and she bore unto him Aaron and Moses; and the years of the life of Amram were one hundred and thirty and seven years. 
And the sons of Yizhar: Korach, and Nepheg, and Zichri. 
And the sons of 'Uzziah Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri, 
And Aaron took himself Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of Nachshon, for wife; and she bore unto him Nadab, and Abihu, Elazar, and Ithamar. 
And the sons of Korach: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiassaph; these are the families of the Korchites. 
And Elazar the son of Aaron took himself one of the daughters of Putiel for wife; and she bore unto him Phinehas: these are the heads of the divisions of the Levites according to their families. 
These are Aaron and Moses, to whom the Lord said, Bring forth the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt according to their armies. 
These are they that spoke to Pharaoh the king of Egypt, to bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt: these are Moses and Aaron. 
And it came to pass on the day when the Lord spoke unto Moses in the land of Egypt. 
Then spoke the Lord unto Moses, saying, I am the Lord; speak thou unto Pharaoh the king of Egypt all that I speak unto thee. 
And Moses said before the Lord, Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me? 
