Numbers.
Chapter 13.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Send thou out some men that they may spy out the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel: one man each of every tribe of their fathers shall ye send, every one who is a prince among them. 
And Moses sent them out from the wilderness of Paran by the order of the Lord: they all were men, who were heads of the children of Israel. 
And these are their names: Of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur. 
Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Chori. 
Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Yephunneh. 
Of the tribe of Issachar, Yigal the son of Joseph. 
Of the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea, the son of Nun. 
Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu. 
Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi. 
Of the tribe of Joseph, of the tribe of Menasseh, Gaddi the son of Sussi. 
Of the tribe of Dan, 'Ammiel the son of Gemalli. 
Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael. 
Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nachbi the son of Vophsi. 
Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi. 
These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land; and Moses called Hoshea the son of Nun, Joshua Yehoshua'. 
And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and he said unto them, Go you up this way at the south side, and go up into the mountain; 
And see the land, what it is; and the people that dwell therein, whether they be strong or weak, whether they be few or many; 
And what the land is on which they dwell, whether it be good or bad; and what the cities are in which they dwell, whether in open places, or in strongholds; 
And what the land is, whether it be fat or lean, whether there be trees therein, or not; and take ye courage, and take away some of the fruit of the land. Now the time was the season of the first ripening of grapes. 
And they went up, and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin unto Rechob, on the road to Chamath. 
And they ascended on the south side, and came unto Hebron; and there were Achiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of 'Anak; now Hebron had been built seven years before Zoan in Egypt. 
And they came unto the valley of Eshcol, and they cut down from there a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bore it upon a barrow between two; and they took some of the pomegranates and of the figs. 
That place was called the valley of Eshcol, on account of the cluster which the children of Israel cut down from there. 
And they returned from spying out the land at the end of forty days. 
And they went and came to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and they brought back word unto them, and unto all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land. 
And they told him, and said, We came unto the land whither thou didst send us, and truly doth it flow with milk and honey; and this is its fruit. 
Nevertheless the people are strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are very strongly walled, and great; and the children of 'Anak also have we seen there. 
The Amalekites dwell in the southern country; and the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Emorites, dwell in the mountains; and the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and by the margin of the Jordan. 
And Caleb stilled the people toward Moses, and he said, We can easily go up, and take possession of it; for we are well able to overcome it. 
But the men who had gone up with him said, We are not able to go up against the people; for they are stronger than we. 
And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had spied out unto the children of Israel, saying, The land through which we have passed to spy it out, is a land that consumeth its inhabitants; and all the people that we saw in it are men of a great stature. 
And there we saw the giants, the sons of 'Anak, of the giants' family: and we were in our own eyes as grasshoppers, and so were we in their eyes. 
