Job.
Chapter 28.
For truly there is a source for the silver, and a place for the gold which men refine. 
Iron is taken out of the dust, and the stone is melted into copper. 
An end doth he set to darkness, and the very utmost limit doth he search out, the stones of darkness, and of the shadow of death. 
He breaketh a channel far from the inhabited place; those of unsteady foot, the poorest of men move there about. 
The earth, out of which cometh forth bread, is under its surface turned up as it were with fire. 
Her stones are the place whence the sapphire cometh; and golden dust is also there; 
On the path which no bird of prey knoweth, and which the vulture's eye hath not surveyed; 
Which ravenous beasts have never trodden, over which the lion hath never passed. 
To the flinty rock he stretcheth forth his hand; he overturneth the mountains from the root. 
Amid rocks he heweth out canals: and every precious thing doth his eye behold. 
The various droppings of water he uniteth into streams, and what is hidden he bringeth forth to light. 
But wisdom—where shall she he found? and where is the place of understanding? 
Man knoweth not her value: and she is not to be found in the land of the living. 
The deep saith, Not in me is she: and the sea saith, She is not with me. 
No fine gold can be given in lieu of her, and silver cannot be weighed out as her price. 
She cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the sapphire. 
She cannot be estimated after gold and glass; and not in exchange for her can vessels of refined gold be taken. 
Coral and crystal will not be thought of; and the value of wisdom is above pearls. 
She cannot be estimated after the topaz of Ethiopia, nor can she be valued with pure gold. 
But wisdom—whence cometh she? and where is the place of understanding? 
Yea, she is hidden from the eyes of all living, and from the fowls of the heavens is she concealed. 
Perdition and death say, With our ears have we heard a report of her. 
God alone understandeth her way, and he knoweth her place; 
For he looketh to the ends of the earth, whatever is under the whole heaven doth he see. 
When he imparted weight unto the wind; and when the waters he established by measure; 
When he made a law for the rain, and a way for the lightning of his thunders; 
Then did he see her, and make her known; he established her, and also searched her out. 
And he said unto man, Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom; and to eschew evil is understanding. 
