Deuteronomy.
Chapter 10.
At that time the Lord said unto me, Hew for thyself two tables of stone like unto the first, and come up unto me into the mount; and make thyself an ark of wood. 
And I will write on the tables the words that were on the first tables which thou hast broken; and thou shalt put them in the ark. 
And I made an ark of shittim-wood, and hewed two tables of stone like unto the first; and I went up into the mount, with the two tables in my hand. 
And he wrote on the tables, like the first writing, the ten commandments, which the Lord had spoken unto you on the mount out of the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly; and the Lord gave them unto me. 
And I turned myself and came down from the mount, and I put the tables in the ark which I had made; and they have remained there, as the Lord hath commanded me. 
And the children of Israel took their journey from the wells of the children of Ya'akan to Mosserah: there Aaron died, and he was buried there; and Elazar his son became priest in his stead. 
From there they journeyed unto Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Yotbatha, a land of brooks of waters. 
At that time did the Lord separate the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of the Lord, to stand before the Lord to minister unto him, and to bless in his name, unto this day. 
Therefore was not assigned unto Levi any portion or inheritance with his brethren: the Lord is his inheritance, as the Lord thy God hath spoken to him. 
And I stayed on the mount, like the first days, forty days and forty nights; and the Lord hearkened unto me also at that time, the Lord would not destroy thee. 
And the Lord said unto me, Arise, go on the journey before the people, that they may go in and take possession of the land, which I have sworn unto their fathers to give unto them. 
And now, Israel, what doth the Lord thy God require of thee, but to fear the Lord thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul, 
To keep the commandments of the Lord, and his statutes, which I command thee this day, for thy own good? 
Behold, to the Lord thy God belong the heavens and the heavens of heavens, and the earth with all that is thereon; 
Yet only in thy fathers had the Lord delight, to love them; he chose, therefore, their seed after them, namely you, from all the nations, as it is this day. 
Remove therefore the obduracy of your heart, and be no more stiff-necked. 
For the Lord your God is the God of gods, and the Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, and the terrible God, who hath no regard to persons, and taketh no bribe; 
Who executeth justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loveth the stranger, to give him food and raiment. 
Love ye then the stranger; for you have been strangers in the land of Egypt. 
The Lord thy God shalt thou fear: him shalt thou serve, and to him shalt thou cleave, and by his name shalt thou swear. 
He is thy praise, and he is thy God, who hath done for thee these great and fearful things, which thy own eyes have seen. 
With seventy persons did thy fathers go down into Egypt; and now the Lord thy God hath made thee like the stars of heaven in multitude. 
