Job.
Chapter 36.
Then continued Elihu, and said, 
Wait for me a little, and I will instruct thee; for I have still some words on God's behalf. 
I will lift up my knowledge for him who is afar, and for my Maker will I obtain righteousness. 
For truly no falsehood is in my words: one that is upright in his opinions dealeth now with thee. 
Behold, God is mighty, and despiseth not any: he is mighty in strength of intellect. 
He permitteth not the wicked to live; but he procureth justice for the afflicted. 
He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous; but he placeth them with kings on the throne; yea, he doth establish them for ever, and they are exalted. 
And if they be bound in fetters, and if they be entangled in the cords of affliction: 
Then doth he tell them of their work, and of their transgressions, when they had become strong. 
And he openeth thus their ear to correction, and saith that they should return from wrong-doing. 
If they hearken and serve him, they will spend their days in happiness, and their years in pleasures. 
But if they hearken not, they will pass away through the sword, and they will perish in want of knowledge. 
But the hypocrites in heart persevere in wrath; they will not offer entreaty when he bindeth them: 
Their soul will die in youth, and their life, among the incestuous. 
He delivereth the afflicted through his affliction, and openeth through oppression his ear. 
And also thee hath he incited away from the jaws of distress into a wide space, on the site of which there is no straitness; and what is set on thy table is full of fatness. 
But if thou art full of the judgment of the wicked: divine judgment and decree will support each other. 
For there would be fury, If aught were to incite thee to utter an abundance of rebellious words; and the greatness of the infliction must not mislead thee. 
Will he esteem thy riches? no, not gold ore, nor all the highest forces of strength. 
Desire then not eagerly the night, when nations pass away in their place. 
Take heed, turn not thyself to wrong-doing, so that thou wouldst choose this because of thy affliction. 
Behold, God is exalted by his power: who is an instructer like him? 
Who hath given him a charge concerning his way? or who hath ever said, Thou hast acted unjustly? 
Reflect, that thou shouldst magnify his work, which other men have beheld. 
All men have looked at it with astonishment; the mortal gazeth at it from afar. 
Behold, God is great, and we comprehend him not, the number of his years can truly not be searched out. 
For he taketh away drops of water, which are purified into rain in his mist: 
These drop down out of the skies; they distil upon the multitude of men. 
But what man can understand the outspreadings of the clouds? the tumult of his tabernacle? 
Behold, he spreadeth out over it his light, and covereth up the roots of the sea. 
For by means of them he judgeth nations, he giveth food in superfluity. 
His hands he covereth with light; and he commandeth it to strike the one who striveth against him. 
The noise of his storm telleth of it, yea, the cattle also, of the rising tempest. 
