Psalms.
Chapter 73.
BOOK THIRD: “A Psalm of Assaph.” Truly God is good to Israel, to such as are pure of heart. 
But as for me, it lacked but little that my feet had been moved: almost nothing was needed that my steps had slipped. 
For I was envious at the arrogant, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 
For there are no deadly fetters for them, but their strength is firm. 
They share not in the trouble of mortals, and with men are they not afflicted. 
Therefore is pride their neck-chain: violence envelopeth them as a garment. 
Their eyes start out from fatness: they have exceeded their heart's imaginings. 
They scorn, and speak wickedly of oppression: loftily do they speak. 
They set their mouth in the heavens, and their tongue walketh busily on the earth. 
Therefore do his people turn away hither: and waters of a full cup are drained by them. 
And they say, How should God know? and is there knowledge in the Most High? 
Behold, these are the wicked; and yet prospering continually they increase in wealth. 
Verily in vain have I thus cleansed my heart, and have washed in innocency my hands: 
While I was afflicted all the day, and my chastisement came every morning. 
But if I were to say, I will speak thus: behold, I would be treacherous against the generation of thy children. 
And when I should think to know this, it would be trouble in my eyes; 
Until I enter into the sanctuary of God; and understand what their future will be. 
Surely thou placest them on slippery spots: thou lettest them fall down into destruction. 
How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! they perish, they come to their end with terrific events. 
As a dream after awaking, O Lord, reject thou in wrath their image. 
For it fermented in my heart, and in my reins I felt sharp thrusts; 
But I was indeed foolish, and I knew it not: I was as a thoughtless beast with thee. 
Nevertheless I am continually with thee: thou hast seized hold of me by my right hand. 
With thy counsel wilt thou guide me, and afterward take me on to glory. 
Whom have I in heaven? and beside thee I desire nothing upon earth. 
Though my flesh and my heart should fall; yet the rock of my heart, and my portion will be God for ever. 
For, lo, those that are far from thee shall perish: thou destroyest every one that strayeth away from thee. 
But as regardeth me, to draw near to God is good for me: I have put in the Lord Eternal my trust, that I may relate all thy works. 
