The First Book of Samuel Otherwise Called The First Book of the Kings.
Chapter 1.
And there was a certain man of Rama-thayim-zophim, of the mountain of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah, the son of Yerocham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tochu, the son of Zuph, an Ephrathite. 
And he had two wives; the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah: Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children. 
And this man went up out of his city from year to year to prostrate himself and to sacrifice unto the Lord of hosts in Shiloh. And at that place were the two sons of 'Eli, Chophni and Phinehas, priests of the Lord. 
And when the day was come that Elkanah offered, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions; 
But unto Hannah he gave a double portion; for Hannah he loved greatly; but the Lord had shut up her womb. 
And her rival also provoked her continually, in order to make her fret; because the Lord had shut up her womb. 
And he did so year by year, as often as she went up to the house of the Lord, so did she provoke her; wherefore she wept, and did not eat. 
Then said to her Elkanah her husband, Hannah, why wilt thou weep? and why wilt thou not eat? and why should thy heart be grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons? 
And Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk; and 'Eli the priest was sitting upon a chair by the door-post of the temple of the Lord. 
But she had bitterness of soul, and prayed unto the Lord, and wept greatly. 
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Lord of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thy handmaid a man-child: then will I give him unto the Lord all the days of his life, and no razor shall come upon his head. 
And it came to pass, as she continued praying long before the Lord, that 'Eli watched her mouth. 
Now as for Hannah, she spoke in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice could not be heard; wherefore 'Eli regarded her as a drunken woman. 
And 'Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from off thee. 
And Hannah answered and said, No, my Lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit; but neither wine nor strong drink have I drunk, and I have poured out my soul before the Lord. 
Esteem not thy handmaid as a worthless woman; for out of the abundance of my grief and vexation have I spoken hitherto. 
Then 'Eli answered and said, Go in peace; and may the God of Israel grant thy petition which thou hast asked of him. 
And she said, Let thy handmaid find grace in thy eyes. The woman then went on her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no longer as before. 
And they rose up early in the morning, and prostrated themselves before the Lord, and returned, and came to their house at Ramah; and Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and the Lord remembered her. 
And it came to pass, after the lapse of some time, that Hannah conceived, and bore a son; and she called his name Samuel, saying, Because from the Lord have I asked him. 
And the man Elkanah went up, with all his house, to offer unto the Lord the yearly sacrifice, and his vow. 
But Hannah did not go up; for she said unto her husband, So soon as the child shall be weaned, then I will bring him, that he may appear before the Lord, and abide there for ever. 
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth good in thy eyes; tarry until thou hast weaned him; only may the Lord fulfill his word. So the woman remained behind, and gave her son suck until she weaned him. 
And she took him up with her, when she had weaned him, with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine, and she brought him unto the house of the Lord at Shiloh; although the child was yet young. 
And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to 'Eli. 
And she said, Pardon, my Lord, as thy soul liveth, my Lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, to pray unto the Lord. 
For this lad did I pray; and the Lord hath granted me my petition which I asked of him; 
Therefore also have I lent him, for my part, to the Lord; all the days that have been assigned to him shall he be lent to the Lord. And he bowed himself there before the Lord. 
