Job.
Chapter 32.
So had these three men abstained from answering Job; because he was righteous in his own eyes. 
Thereupon was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled, because he had declared himself more righteous than God. 
And against his three friends was his wrath kindled; because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job. 
Now Elihu had held back toward Job his words; because the others were older in days than he. 
But when Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, then was his wrath kindled. 
And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite commenced, and said, Young am I in days, and ye are very old: therefore I hesitated and feared to show you what I know. 
I had said, Days shall speak, and multitude of years shall make wisdom known. 
But it is the spirit in man, and the breath of the Almighty which giveth them understanding. 
Not those rich in years must be always wise: neither do the aged constantly understand what is just. 
Therefore do I say, Hearken to me: I also will show forth what I know myself. 
Behold, I waited for your words: I gave an attentive ear to your reasonings, till you might have searched out the proper words. 
And now I understand you fully, and, behold, there is none that convinceth Job, or, that answereth his speeches among you. 
Say then not, We have found wisdom: God will thrust him down, not man. 
But he hath not directed any words against me: and with your speeches will I not answer him. 
They are dismayed, they answer no more: words have escaped away from them. 
And should I wait longer, because they cannot speak, because they stand stilt and answer no more? 
But I also will surely answer my part, I myself also will show forth what I know; 
For I am full of words, the spirit in my bosom urgeth me hard. 
Behold, my bosom is like fresh wine which hath not been opened: like new bottles it is ready to burst. 
I will speak, that I may breathe freer: I will open my lips and answer. 
On no account will I show undue favor to any man, and to no son of earth will I give flattering titles. 
For I know not to give flattering titles; for else my Maker would speedily carry me away. 
