Genesis.
Chapter 47.
Then came Joseph and told Pharaoh, and said, My father and my brothers, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have, are come out of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they are in the land of Goshen. 
And he took some of his brothers, five men, and presented them before Pharaoh. 
And Pharaoh said unto his brothers, What is your occupation? And they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we, as also our fathers. 
They said moreover unto Pharaoh, To sojourn in the land are we come; because there is no pasture for the flocks of thy servants, for the famine is sore in the land of Canaan; and now let thy servants dwell, we pray thee, in the land of Goshen. 
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, thus, Thy father and thy brothers are come unto thee: 
The land of Egypt is before thee; in the best of the land let thy father and brothers dwell; let them dwell in the land of Goshen; and if thou knowest that there are among them men of activity, then appoint them rulers over my cattle. 
And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and placed him before Pharaoh; and Jacob blessed Pharaoh. 
And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou? 
And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are one hundred and thirty years: few and evil have been the days of the years of my life, and have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage. 
And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh. 
And Joseph assigned places of residence for his father and his brothers, and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Ra'meses, as Pharaoh had commanded. 
And Joseph supplied his father, and his brothers, and all his father's household, with bread, in proportion to their families. 
And there was no bread in all the land: for the famine was very sore; and the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine. 
And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought; and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house. 
And when the money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us bread, for why should we die in thy presence, since the money is all gone? 
And Joseph said, Give up your cattle; and I will give you for your cattle, if the money be all gone. 
And they brought their cattle unto Joseph; and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks of sheep, and for the herds of cattle, and for the asses; and he supplied them with bread for all their cattle for that year. 
And when that year was ended, they came unto him in the second year, and said unto him, We will not hide it from my lord, how that our money with our herds of cattle hath entirely passed into the possession of my lord; there is naught left in sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our land. 
Wherefore shall we die before thy eyes, both we and our land? buy us and our land for bread; and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh; and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, and that the land be not rendered desolate. 
And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over them: so the land became Pharaoh's. 
And as for the people, he removed them to the cities, from one end of the borders of Egypt to the other end thereof. 
Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had a portion assigned them by Pharaoh, and they ate their portion which Pharaoh gave them: therefore they did not sell their land. 
Then said Joseph unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh: lo, here is seed for you, and sow ye the land. 
And it shall come to pass in the harvest times, that ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh; and four parts shall be your own, for the seed of the field, and for your food, and for those belonging to your households, and for food for your little ones. 
And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us but find grace in the eyes of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants. 
And Joseph made it a statute unto this day over the land of Egypt, that Pharaoh should have the fifth part; except the land of the priests alone became not Pharaoh's. 
And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen; and they had possessions therein, and were fruitful, and multiplied exceedingly. 
And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: and the days of Jacob, the years of his life, were one hundred forty and seven years. 
And when the time of Israel drew near that he was to die, he sent to call his son Joseph, and said unto him, if now I have found grace in thy eyes, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh; and deal with me in kindness and truth; bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt. 
But when I shall lie with my fathers, thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their burying-place. And he said, I will do as thou hast said. 
And he said, Swear unto me; and he swore unto him; and Israel bowed himself upon the head of the bed. 
