2 Samuel.
Chapter 7.
And it came to pass, when the king dwelt in his house, and the Lord had given him rest round about from all his enemies; 
That the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, while the ark of God dwelleth within curtains. 
And Nathan said to the king, all that is in thy heart go and do; for the Lord is with thee. 
And it came to pass during that night, That the word of the Lord came unto Nathan, saying, 
Go and say unto my servant, unto David, Thus hath said the Lord, Wilt thou indeed build me a house for my dwelling? 
For I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up the children of Israel out of Egypt, even until this day; but have been moving about in a tent and in a tabernacle. 
In all the places where I moved about among all the children of Israel, did I speak a word to any one of the tribes of Israel, whom I ordained to feed my people Israel, saying, Why have ye not built for me a house of cedar? 
Now therefore, thus shalt thou say unto my servant, to David, Thus hath said the Lord of hosts, I took thee from the sheep-cote, from behind the flocks, to be a ruler over my people, over Israel; 
And I have been with thee whithersoever thou didst go, and I have cut off all thy enemies from thy presence, and I have made thee a great name, like the name of the great who are on the earth; 
And I have procured a place for my people, for Israel, and I have planted them, that they may dwell in a place of their own, and be no more troubled; and that the children of wickedness shall not afflict them any more as aforetimes, 
And as it was since the day that I ordained judges to be over my people Israel; and I have caused thee to rest from all thy enemies; and the Lord telleth thee that he, the Lord, will make thee a house. 
When thy days will be completed, and thou wilt sleep with thy fathers: then will I set up thy seed after thee, who shall proceed out of thy body, and I will establish his kingdom. 
He it is that shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever. 
I too will be to him as a father, and he shall indeed be to me as a son: so that when he committeth iniquity, I will chastise him with the rod of men, and with the plagues of the children of man; 
But my kindness shall not depart from him, as I caused it to depart from Saul, whom I removed from before thee. 
And thy house and thy kingdom shall be steadfast for ever before thee: thy throne shall be established for ever. 
In accordance with all these words, and in accordance with all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David. 
Then went king David in, and sat down before the Lord, and he said, Who am I, O Lord Eternal? and what is my house, that thou hast brought me as far as hitherward? 
And this was yet too small a thing in thine eyes, O Lord Eternal; and thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a distant time. And is this the desert of man, O Lord Eternal? 
And what can David add yet more to speak unto thee? since thou, O Lord Eternal, knowest well thy servant? 
For the sake of thy word, and in accordance with thy own heart, hast thou done all this great thing, so as to let thy servant know it. 
Therefore art thou great, O Eternal God; for there is none like thee, and there is no God beside thee, in accordance with all that we have heard with our ears. 
And who is like thy people, like Israel, the only nation on the earth, which God went to redeem for himself as a people, and to acquire for himself a name, and to do for you this great deed, and fearful things for thy land to drive out, from before thy people which thou hast redeemed for thyself from Egypt, nations and their gods. 
For thou hast established for thyself thy people Israel as a people unto thee for ever; and thou, O Lord, art indeed become their God. 
And now, O Eternal God, let the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, stand firm for ever, and do as thou hast spoken. 
And let thy name be magnified unto everlasting, that men may say, The Lord of hosts is the God over Israel: and may the house of thy servant David be established before thee. 
For thou, O Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, hast revealed to the ear of thy servant, saying, A house will be built up for thee; therefore hath thy servant found the heart to pray unto thee this prayer. 
And now, O Lord Eternal, thou art the true God, and thy words must become the truth, and thou hast spoken unto thy servant this goodness: 
And now let it please thee and bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee; for thou, O Lord Eternal, hast spoken it; and from thy blessing let the house of thy servant be blessed for ever. 
