Hosea.
Chapter 9.
Rejoice not, O Israel, for gladness, as other people; for thou art gone astray, unfaithful to thy God: thou hast loved the wages of sin upon every corn-filled threshing-floor. 
The threshing-floor and the wine-press shall not feed them, and the new wine shall deceive them. 
They shall not dwell in the land of the Lord; but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and in Assyria will they eat unclean things. 
They shall not pour out wine to the Lord, and their offerings shall not be pleasing unto him; their sacrifices shall be unto them as the bread of mourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted: for this their food can only be for themselves, it shall not come into the house of the Lord. 
What will ye do on the day of the appointed festival, and on the day of the feast of the Lord? 
For, lo, they are gone forth because of the desolation: Egypt will gather them up, Moph will bury them: the pleasant chambers for their silver,—these shall nettles take possession of; thorns shall grow in their tents. 
Come are the days of the visitation, come are the days of thy recompense; this shall Israel experience: a fool was the prophet, mad the inspired man, because of the greatness of thy iniquity, and the great hatefulness. 
The watchman of Ephraim with my God, the prophet, was a snare of the fowler on all his ways, a hateful thing in the house of his god. 
They are deeply corrupt, as in the days of Gib'ah: he will remember their iniquity, he will visit their sins. 
Like grapes in the wilderness had I found Israel; as the first ripe fruit on the fig-tree in the first of the season had I seen your fathers; but they too went to Ba'al-pe'or: and devoted themselves unto that shameful idol, and became abominations as those they loved. 
As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird: there is no more birth, and no pregnancy, and no conception. 
But though they were to bring up their children, yet would I bereave them, that there should be no man: yea, woe also to themselves, when I depart from them! 
Ephraim, as I have seen him like Tyre, planted in a pleasant meadow,—yet this Ephraim shall lead forth to the murderer his children. 
Give them, O Lord, what thou wilt give! give them a miscarrying womb and dried-up breasts. 
All their wickedness is in Gilgal; for there I learnt to hate them; for the wickedness of their doings will I drive them out of my house: I will love them no farther; all their princes are rebels. 
Smitten is Ephraim, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit; yea, though they should bring forth, yet would I slay the beloved fruit of their body. 
My God will reject them, because they did not hearken unto him: and they shall be wanderers among the nations. 
