Proverbs.
Chapter 29.
A man that, having received many admonitions, still hardeneth his neck, will suddenly be broken, and this without remedy. 
When the righteous are in authority, the people will rejoice; but when the wicked beareth rule, the people groan. 
The man that loveth wisdom causeth his father to rejoice; but he that keepeth company with harlots wasteth his wealth. 
A king will through the exercise of justice establish the welfare of a land; but one that loveth gifts overthroweth it. 
A man that flattereth his neighbor spreadeth a net for his steps. 
In the transgression of a man there is an evil snare: but the righteous ever singeth and rejoiceth. 
The righteous considereth the cause of the indigent: but the wicked will not understand the knowledge of justice. 
Scornful men will kindle confusion in a town; but the wise turn away wrath. 
If a wise man contend with a foolish man, whether he be angry or whether he laugh, he will have no rest. 
Men of blood hate the guiltless one; but the upright seek to preserve his life. 
A fool uttereth all his mind; but the wise holdeth it back. 
If a ruler listen to the word of falsehood, all his servants become wicked. 
The poor and the man of exactions meet together: the Lord enlighteneth the eyes of both of them. 
When a king judgeth in truth the indigent, his throne shall stand firmly for ever. 
The rod and reproof impart wisdom; but a lad abandoned to himself bringeth shame on his mother. 
With the increase of the wicked transgression increaseth; but the righteous shall yet look on their downfall. 
Correct thy son, and he will procure thee rest: yea, he will give delight unto thy soul. 
Without a prophetic vision a people become unruly; but when it observeth the law, then will it be happy. 
Not with words alone can a servant be corrected; for though he understand, there will be no response. 
Seest then a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope for a fool than for him. 
If one rear his servant delicately from his youth, then will he at length become as his son. 
A man of anger stirreth up strife; and a man of fury aboundeth in transgression. 
The pride of a man will humble him; but the humble in spirit will attain to honor. 
Whoso divideth with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth the adjuration and dareth not to tell. 
The dread of man bringeth a snare; but whoso putteth his trust in the Lord will be upheld in safety. 
Many seek the favor of a ruler; but from the Lord cometh justice for man. 
An abomination of the righteous is an unjust man: and an abomination of the wicked is one who is upright in his way. 
