Jeremiah.
Chapter 20.
But when Pashchur the son of Immer the priest, who was chief superintendent in the house of the Lord, heard Jeremiah prophesying these words: 
Then smote Pashchur Jeremiah the prophet, and put him in the stocks that were in the upper gate of Benjamin, which was in the house of the Lord. 
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Pashchur brought forth Jeremiah out of the stocks. And Jeremiah said unto him, Not Pashchur Fulness of Freedom hath the Lord called thy name, but Magor-missabib Terror all around. 
For thus hath said the Lord, Behold, I will make thee a terror to thyself, and to all thy friends; and they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and thy eyes shall see it; and all Judah will I give into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall lead them into exile to Babylon, and shall smite them with the sword. 
And I will give up all the wealth of this city, and all its acquisitions, and all its precious things; and all the treasures of the kings of Judah will I give into the hand of their enemies, who shall plunder them, and take them and carry them away to Babylon. 
And thou, Pashchur, and all the inhabitants of thy house, shall go into captivity; and to Babylon shalt thou come, and there thou shalt die, and there shalt thou be buried, thou, and all thy friends, to whom thou hast prophesied with falsehood. 
Thou didst persuade me, O Lord, and I was persuaded; thou laidst thy hand strongly on me, and didst prevail: I am laughed at all the time, every one mocketh me. 
For as often as I speak must I cry out, violence and wasting must I proclaim; because the word of the Lord is become unto me a disgrace, and a derision, all the time. 
And I thought, I will not make mention of him, and I will not speak any more in his name. But it became in my heart as a burning fire enclosed within my bones, and I was weary with enduring, and I could not overcome it. 
For I heard the defaming of many, angry assemblies on every side, “Tell, and we will tell of him.” All the men who ought to seek my welfare, watch for my fall; saying, “Peradventure he may he enticed, and we shall prevail against him, and we will then take our revenge on him.” 
But the Lord is with me as a mighty powerful one; therefore my persecutors will stumble, and they will not prevail: they will be greatly ashamed, for they will not prosper; it is an everlasting confusion which will never be forgotten. 
But, O Lord of hosts, that probest the righteous, seest the reins and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them; for unto thee have I laid open my cause. 
Sing unto the Lord, praise ye the Lord; for he hath delivered the soul of the needy from the hand of evil-doers. 
Cursed be the day whereon I was born: the day on which my mother bore me shall not be blessed. 
Cursed be the man who brought tidings to my father, saying, A man-child is born unto thee. How very glad did he make him! 
And may that same man become like the cities which the Lord overthrew, and bethought himself not; and may he hear a cry of anguish in the morning, and a tumultuous noise at noontide; 
Because I was not slain as I escaped from the womb; or that my mother might have become unto me my grave, and her womb have been affected with a perpetual pregnancy. 
Wherefore was this that I came forth out of the womb to see trouble and sorrow, that my days should pass away in shame? 
