Leviticus.
Chapter 24.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Command the children of Israel, that they bring unto thee pure beaten olive-oil, for the lighting, to cause the lamp to burn continually. 
Without the vail of the testimony, in the tabernacle of the congregation, shall Aaron put it in order for from evening unto morning before the Lord continually; as a statute for ever in your generations. 
Upon the pure candlestick shall be put in order the lamps, before the Lord, continually. 
And thou shalt take fine flour, and bake thereof twelve cakes: of two tenth parts shall each one cake be. 
And thou shalt place them in two rows, six in a row, upon the pure table before the Lord. 
And thou shalt put upon each row pure frankincense, that it may be unto the bread for a memorial, as a fire-offering unto the Lord. 
On every and each sabbath day shall he place it in order before the Lord continually, obtained from the children of Israel as an everlasting covenant. 
And it shall belong to Aaron and to his sons; and they shall eat it in a holy place; for it is most holy unto him, from the fire-offerings of the Lord, as a perpetual fixed portion. 
And there went forth a son of an Israelitish woman, but who was the son of an Egyptian man, among the children of Israel; and there quarrelled together in the camp this son of the Israelitish woman and an Israelitish man. 
And the son of the Israelitish woman pronounced the holy Name, and blasphemed; and they brought him unto Moses: and his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan; 
And they placed him in ward, until the decision of the Lord could be explained to them. 
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Lead forth the blasphemer to without the camp; and all that have heard him shall lay their hands upon his head; and all the congregation shall stone him. 
And unto the children of Israel shalt thou speak, saying, Whatsoever man that blasphemeth his God shall bear his sin. 
But he that pronounced the name of the Lord with blasphemy shall be put to death, all the congregation shall stone him; be he a stranger, or be he one that is born in the land, when he pronounceth the holy Name with blasphemy, he shall be put to death. 
And he that taketh the life of any man shall surely be put to death. 
And he that taketh the life of a beast shall make it good: beast for beast. 
And if a man cause a bodily defect in his neighbor, as he hath done, so shall be done to him; 
Breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth: in the manner as he hath caused a bodily defect in a man, so shall it be done to him. 
And he that killeth a beast, shall make restitution for it; and he that killeth a man, shall be put to death. 
One manner of judicial law shall ye have, the stranger shall be equal with one of your own country; for I am the Lord your God. 
And Moses spoke to the children of Israel; and they led forth the blasphemer to without the camp, and they stoned him with stones; and the children of Israel did as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
