Isaiah.
Chapter 25.
O Lord, my God art thou; I will exalt thee, I will praise thy name; for thou hast done wonderful things, resolves of distant times are become faithful confirmation. 
For thou hast made of a city a stone-heap; of a fortified town a falling ruin; the palace of barbarians ceaseth out of the city, to eternity shall it not be rebuilt. 
Therefore shall a strong people honor thee; the town of the tyrannical nations shall fear thee. 
For thou hast become a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy when he is distressed; a protection from the tempest, a shadow from the heat; for the wrathful breath of the tyrants is like the tempest against a wall. 
Like heat in a dry land, wilt thou subdue the tumult of the barbarians; as the heat is lessened by the shadow of the cloud, so will he subdue the song of the tyrants. 
And the Lord of hosts will make unto all the nations on this mountain a feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined. 
And he will destroy on this mountain the face of the covering which covereth all the people, and the vail that is spread over all the nations. 
He will destroy death to eternity: and the Lord Eternal will wipe away the tear from off all faces; and the shame of his people will he remove from off all the earth; for the Lord hath spoken it. 
And men will say on that day, Lo, this is our God, for whom we have waited that he would help us; this is the Lord for whom we have waited, we will be glad and we will rejoice in his salvation. 
For the hand of the Lord will rest on this mountain, and Moab shall be trodden down on his own place, even as straw is trodden down upon the dunghill. 
And he will spread forth his hands in the midst thereof, as the swimmer spreadeth them forth to swim: and he will bring down his pride together with the joints of his hands. 
And the fortress of the stronghold of thy walls he bringeth down, layeth low, casteth it to the ground, even to the dust. 
