Exodus.
Chapter 10.
And the Lord said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh; for I have hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, in order that I might display these my signs in the midst of them: 
And in order that thou mayest tell in the ears of thy son, and of thy son's son, the wonders which I have wrought in Egypt, and my signs which I have shown among them; and ye shall know now that I am the Lord. 
And Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh, and said unto him, Thus saith the Eternal, the God of the Hebrews, How long yet wilt thou refuse to humble thyself before me? let my people go, that they may serve me. 
For, if thou refusest to let my people go, behold, I will bring tomorrow locusts into thy boundary. 
And they shall cover the face of the earth, so that one shall not be able to see the earth: and they shall eat the residue of that which escaped, which hath been left unto you from the hail, and they shall eat off every tree which groweth for you out of the field: 
And thy houses, and the houses of all thy servants, and the houses of all the Egyptians shall be full of them; such as neither thy fathers, nor thy fathers' fathers have seen, since the day of their being upon the earth, until this day; and he turned himself, and went out from Pharaoh. 
And the servants of Pharaoh said unto him, How long shall this man be unto us for a snare? let the men go, that they may serve the Lord their God: knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed? 
And Moses was brought back with Aaron unto Pharaoh; and he said unto them, Go ye, serve the Lord your God; who all are they that shall go? 
And Moses said, With our young and with our old will we go; with our sons and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds will we go; for we are to hold a feast unto the Lord. 
And he said unto them, So be the Lord with you, as I will let you go, together with your little ones: look, surely your intentions are evil. 
Not so; go now ye men, and serve the Lord, for this you desire: and they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence. 
And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thy hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, and they shall come up over the land of Egypt, and eat every herb of the earth, all that the hail hath left. 
And Moses stretched forth his staff over the land of Egypt, and the Lord urged an east wind over the land all that day, and all the night; when it was morning, the east wind bore along the locusts. 
And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested in all the boundaries of Egypt; in very large masses; before them there were no such locusts as they, and after them there will not be any such. 
And they covered the face of the whole earth, so that the earth was darkened; and they ate every herb of the land, and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left: and there was not left any green thing on the trees, or on the herbs of the field, throughout all the land of Egypt. 
Then made Pharaoh haste to call for Moses and Aaron; and he said, I have sinned against the Lord your God, and against you. 
And now forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, and entreat the Lord your God, that he may take away from me only this death. 
And he went out from Pharaoh, and entreated the Lord. 
And the Lord turned a very strong west wind, which bore away the locusts, and cast them into the Red Sea; there was not left one locust in all the boundary of Egypt. 
But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he did not let the children of Israel go. 
And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thy hand toward heaven, and there shall be darkness over the land of Egypt, and it shall be a darkness of the night. 
And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven; and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days: 
They saw not one another, neither did they rise, any one from his place, for three days; but for all the children of Israel there was light in their dwellings. 
And Pharaoh called for Moses, and said, Go ye, serve the Lord; only your flocks and your herds shall remain behind: also your little ones may go with you. 
And Moses said, Even thou also must give into our hand sacrifices and burnt-offerings, that we may sacrifice them unto the Eternal, our God. 
And also our cattle must go with us, there shall not be left behind a single hoof, for thereof must we take to serve the Lord our God; and we cannot know with what we must serve the Lord, until we come thither. 
But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let them go. 
And Pharaoh said unto him, Get thee away from me; take heed to thyself, see my face no more; for on the day thou seest my face thou shalt die. 
And Moses said, Thou hast spoken well, I will not see thy face again any more. 
