Proverbs.
Chapter 16.
Unto man belong the resolves of the heart; but from the Lord cometh the expression of the tongue. 
Every one of the ways of a man is pure in his own eyes; but the Lord measureth the spirits. 
Commit unto the Lord thy works, and thy plans will be firmly established. 
Every thing hath the Lord wrought for its destined end; yes, even the wicked for the day of unhappiness. 
An abomination of the Lord is every one that is proud of heart: the hand of God being against his hand, he shall not go unpunished. 
Through kindness and truth is iniquity atoned for; and by the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. 
When the Lord receiveth in favor a man's ways, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. 
Better is a little with righteousness, than great incomes through injustice. 
A man's heart deviseth his way; but the Lord directeth firmly his steps. 
There should be a wise sentence on the lips of the king: his mouth should never commit a trespass in judging. 
A just balance and scales belong to the Lord: his work are all the weights in the bag. 
It should be an abomination to kings to commit wickedness; for through righteousness alone can a throne be established. 
Righteous lips should obtain the favor of kings; and him that speaketh uprightly should they love. 
The fury of a king is like the messengers of death; but a wise man will appease it. 
In the light of the king's countenance there is life; and his favor is as a cloud of the latter rain. 
How much better is it to obtain wisdom than gold! and to obtain understanding is preferable to silver! 
The highway of the upright is to depart from evil: he preserveth his soul that watcheth his way. 
Before downfall goeth pride, and before stumbling, haughtiness of spirit. 
Better is it to be of a humble spirit with the lowly, than to divide spoil with the proud. 
He that reflecteth on a matter wisely will find happiness; and whoso trusteth in the Lord—happiness attend him! 
The wise in heart is called a man of understanding; and the sweetness of the lips increaseth information. 
Intelligence is a source of life unto its possessor; but the correction of fools is folly. 
The heart of the wise maketh his mouth intelligent, and upon his lips he increaseth information. 
Like the droppings of honey are pleasant sayings, sweet to the soul, and healing to the bones. 
There is many a way which seemeth even before a man, but its end are the ways unto death. 
The desire of the laborer laboreth for him; for his mouth imposeth it on him. 
An ungodly man diggeth up mischief, and on his lips there is as it were a scathing fire. 
A perverse man scattereth strife; and a whisperer separateth confident friends. 
The man of violence misleadeth his neighbor, and maketh him go on a way which is not good. 
He shutteth his eyes to devise perverse things: when he compresseth his lips then hath he fully resolved on evil. 
An ornamental crown is the hoary head, on the way of righteousness can it be found. 
One that is slow to anger is better than a hero; and he that ruleth his spirit, than the conqueror of a city. 
In the lap the lot is cast: but from the Lord cometh the whole of its decision. 
