Psalms.
Chapter 105.
O give thanks unto the Lord; call on his name: make known among the people his deeds. 
Sing unto, him, sing praises unto him: speak of all his wonderful works. 
Glorify yourselves in his holy name: let the heart of those rejoice that seek the Lord. 
Inquire after the Lord and his strength: seek his presence evermore. 
Remember his wonderful works which he hath done; his tokens, and the decrees of his mouth; 
O ye seed of Abraham his servant, ye children of Jacob, his elect. 
He is the Lord our God: over all the earth are his decrees. 
He remembereth his covenant for ever, the word which he hath commanded, to the thousandth generation. 
Which he covenanted with Abraham; and his oath unto Isaac; 
And which he established unto Jacob as a statute, unto Israel as an everlasting covenant: 
Saying, “Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, as the portion of your inheritance.” 
When they were but a few men in number; yea, very few, and strangers in it; 
And when they wandered from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people: 
He suffered no man to oppress them; yea, he reproved kings for their sake; 
Saying, “Touch not my anointed, and do my prophets no harm,”— 
And he called for a famine over the land; every staff of bread he broke. 
He sent a man before them; for a servant was Joseph sold; 
They forced into fetters his feet; in iron was his body put: 
Until the time that his word came to pass, when the saying of the Lord had purified him. 
The king sent and unfettered him; the ruler of people, and let him go free. 
He appointed him lord of his house, and ruler of all his possession: 
That he might bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his ancients wisdom. 
Then came Israel into Egypt, and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. 
And he increased his people greatly, and made them stronger than their adversaries. 
He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilely with his servants. 
He sent Moses his servant, Aaron also whom he had made choice of. 
They displayed among them his effective signs, and wonders in the land of Ham. 
He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word. 
He changed their waters into blood, and slew their fish. 
Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the very chambers of their kings. 
He spoke, and there came various wild beasts, lice also within all their boundary. 
He gave them as their rain hail, and flames of fire in their land. 
And he smote their vines and their fig-trees, and broke the trees within their boundary. 
He spoke, and the locusts came, and crickets, and that without number; 
And they ate up all the herbs in their land, and ate up the fruit of their ground. 
And he smote all the first-born in their land, the first of all their strength. 
And he brought them forth with silver and gold: and there was not one that stumbled among his tribes. 
Egypt rejoiced when they departed; for the dread of them was fallen upon them. 
He spread out a cloud for a covering, and fire to give light in the night. 
The people asked, and he brought quails, and with heavenly bread he satisfied them. 
He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out: they ran in the dry places like a river. 
For he remembered his holy word given to Abraham his servant. 
And he brought forth his people with gladness, with joyful song his elect. 
And he gave them the lands of nations; and the labor of people they obtained as an inheritance: 
So that they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Hallelujah. 
