Psalms.
Chapter 118.
O give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good; because unto eternity endureth his kindness. 
Let Israel then say so; because to eternity endureth his kindness. 
Let the house of Aaron then say so; because to eternity endureth his kindness. 
Let those who fear the Lord then say so; because to eternity endureth his kindness. 
From the midst of distress I called on the Lord; the Lord answered me with enlargement. 
The Lord is for me; I will not fear: what can a man do unto me? 
The Lord is for me, among those that help me: therefore shall I indeed look on the punishment of those that hate me. 
It is better to seek shelter with the Lord than to trust in man. 
It is better to seek shelter with the Lord than to trust in princes. 
All nations encompassed me about; but in the name of the Lord I will surely cut them off. 
They encompassed me about: yea, they compassed about, but in the name of the Lord I will surely cut them off. 
They encompassed me about like bees; they blazed up like the fire of thorns; but in the name of the Lord I will surely cut them off. 
Thou hast thrust violently at me that I might fall; but the Lord assisted me. 
My strength and song is the Lord, and he is become my salvation. 
The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous: the right hand of the Lord doth valiantly. 
The right hand of the Lord is exalted: the right hand of the Lord doth valiantly. 
I shall not die, but I shall live, and relate the works of the Lord. 
Severely hath the Lord chastised me; but unto death hath he not given me up. 
Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will enter into them. I will give thanks unto the Lord. 
This is the gate which belongeth unto the Lord, the righteous shall enter thereby. 
I will thank thee: for thou but answered me, and art become my salvation. 
The stone which the builders rejected is become the chief corner-stone. 
From the Lord is this come to pass, it is marvelous in our eyes. 
This is the day which the Lord hath made, we will be glad and rejoice thereon. 
We beseech thee, O Lord, save us now: we beseech thee, O Lord, send us now prosperity. 
Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord: we bless you out of the house of the Lord. 
God is the Lord, and he giveth us light: bind the festive sacrifice with cords, leading it up to the horns of the altar. 
Thou art my God, and I will thank thee: my God, I will exalt thee. 
Oh give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good; because to eternity endureth his kindness. 
