Genesis.
Chapter 46.
And Israel commenced his journey with all that he had, and came to Beer-sheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac. 
And God spoke unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I. 
And he said, I am God, the God of thy father; fear not to go down into Egypt; for a great nation will I make of thee there: 
I will go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee up again; and Joseph shall put his hand upon thy eyes. 
And Jacob rose up from Beer-sheba: and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him. 
And they took their cattle and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt; Jacob, and all his seed with him: 
His sons, and his son's sons with him, his daughters, and his sons' daughters, and all his seed he brought with him into Egypt. 
And these are the names of the children of Israel, that came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: the first-born of Jacob, Reuben. 
And the sons of Reuben: Chanoch, and Pallu, and Chezron, and Carmi. 
And the sons of Simeon: Yemuel, and Yamin, and Ohad, and Yachin, and Zochar, and Shaul the son of the Canaanitish woman. 
And the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kehath, and Merari. 
And the sons of Judah: 'Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Perez, and Zerach; but 'Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan, and the sons of Perez were Chezron and Chamul. 
And the sons of Issachar: Tola, and Puvah, and Yob, and Shimron. 
And the sons of Zebulun: Sered, and Elon, and Yachleel. 
These are the sons of Leah, whom she bore unto Jacob in Padan-aram, with Dinah his daughter: all the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty and three. 
And the sons of Gad: Ziphyon, and Chaggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, 'Eri, and Arodi, and Areli. 
And the sons of Asher: Yimnah, and Yishvah, and Yishvi, and Beriah, and Serach their sister; and the sons of Beriah: Cheber, and Malkiel. 
These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, and she bore these unto Jacob, sixteen souls. 
The sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife: Joseph and Benjamin. 
And there were born unto Joseph in the land of Egypt Menasseh and Ephraim, whom Assenath the daughter of Poti-phera', the priest of On, bore unto him. 
And the sons of Benjamin: Bela', and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Echi, and Rosh, Muppim and Chuppim, and Ard. 
These are the sons of Rachel, that were born to Jacob: in all fourteen souls. 
And the son of Dan: Chushim. 
And the sons of Naphtali: Yachzeel, and Guni, and Yezer, and Shillem. 
These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave unto Rachel his daughter, and she bore these unto Jacob, in all seven souls. 
All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, that came out of his loins, besides the wives of Jacob's sons, were in all sixty and six souls. 
And the sons of Joseph, who were born him in Egypt, were two souls; all the souls of the house of Jacob, that came into Egypt, were seventy. 
And Judah he sent before him unto Joseph, to direct him beforehand unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen. 
And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel his father, to Goshen; and when he obtained sight of him, he fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while. 
And Israel said unto Joseph, Let me die now, since I have seen thy face, that thou art yet alive. 
And Joseph said unto his brothers, and unto his father's house, I will go up, and tell Pharaoh, and say unto him, My brothers and my father's house, who were in the land of Canaan, are come unto me; 
And the men are shepherds, for they have been owners of cattle; and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have, they have brought along. 
And it shall come to pass, if Pharaoh should have you called, and say, What is your occupation? 
That ye shall say, Owners of cattle have thy servants been from our youth even until now, both we, as also our fathers; in order that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians. 
