Proverbs.
Chapter 24.
Be thou not envious of bad men, and do not long to be with them. 
For their heart meditateth destruction, and of mischief do their lips speak. 
Through wisdom is a house built; and through understanding is it firmly established; 
And through knowledge are chambers filled with all manner of precious and pleasant wealth. 
A wise man is always in power; and a man of knowledge fortifieth his strength. 
For by wise counsel canst thou conduct thy war; and there is help in a multitude of counsellors. 
Wisdom is too high for a fool: in the gate can he not open his mouth. 
Him that deviseth to do evil, men call a master of wicked devices. 
The counsel of folly is sin; and an abomination to men is the scorner. 
If thou despond on the day of distress, thy strength is small. 
Deliver those that are taken unto death, and those that are moved away to the slaughter hold back. 
If thou shouldst say, Behold, we know not this man: lo, he that weigheth hearts will truly regard it, and he that keepeth thy soul will surely know it; and he will give a recompense to man according to his doing. 
Eat honey, my son, because it is good; and the fine honey, which is sweet to thy palate: 
So obtain the knowledge of wisdom for thy soul: when thou hast found her, then shall there be a happy future, and thy hope shall not be cut off. 
Lie not in wait, O wicked man! against the dwelling of the righteous; waste not his resting-place; 
For though the righteous were to fall seven times, he will rise up again; but the wicked shall stumble into misfortune. 
At the fall of thy enemy do not rejoice; and at his stumbling let not thy heart be glad: 
Lest the Lord see it and it be displeasing in his eyes, and he turn away from him his wrath. 
Fret not thyself because of evil-doers, neither be thou envious of the wicked; 
For there will be no happy future for the bad man: the lamp of the wicked will be quenched. 
My son, fear the Lord and the king: with those that are desirous to change do not mingle thyself; 
For suddenly will their calamity arise; and who knoweth the ruin of both of them! 
These things also are for the wise. To have respect of persons in judgment is not good. 
Him that saith unto the wicked, Thou art righteous, will the people denounce, him will nations hold accursed; 
But to those that punish delight shall be given, and upon them shall come the blessing of the good. 
Men will kiss the lips of him that giveth a proper answer. 
Prepare without thy work, and make it fit in the field for thyself: and afterward build thy house. 
Be not without cause a witness against thy neighbor; for wouldst thou beguile with thy lips? 
Say not, As he hath done to me so will I do to him: I will recompense every man according to his doing. 
By the field of a slothful man I once passed along, and by the vineyard of a man void of sense: 
And, lo, it was all grown over with thorns, nettles had covered its surface, and its stone-wall was broken down. 
And when I had indeed beheld this I took it to my heart: I saw it, and received a warning. 
“A little more sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands in lying down;” 
But then will thy poverty come like a rover; and thy wants as a man armed with a shield. 
