Job.
Chapter 24.
Why are not times of punishment treasured up by the Almighty, and why do his adorers not see his days of retribution? 
The wicked remove landmarks: they rob flocks, and feed them. 
They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take in pledge the widow's ox. 
They chase the needy out of the highway: altogether hide themselves the poor of the earth. 
Behold, as wild asses in the wilderness go they forth to their work, rising betimes after their prey: the desert yieldeth food for them and for their young men. 
In the field they reap their food; and in the vineyard of the wicked they gather the fruit. 
They cause the poor to spend the night naked, without clothing and without any covering in the cold. 
Through the sweeping rain of the mountains are they made wet, and for want of a shelter do they embrace the rock. 
The others pluck from the breast the fatherless, and the garment of the poor they take in pledge. 
They cause him to go naked without clothing, and from the hungry they take away the sheaf: 
Within their walls do they make oil, they tread their wine-presses, and suffer thirst. 
Out of a populous city is groaning heard, and the soul of the deadly wounded crieth out: yet God regardeth it not as an offence. 
Yon men are of those that rebel against the light: they know not its ways, nor abide in its paths. 
With the earliest light riseth the murderer, he slayeth the poor and needy, and in the night he becometh like the thief. 
And the eye of the adulterer watcheth for the twilight, saying, No eye will see me; and placeth a covering on his face. 
They break into houses in the dark, in the daytime they lock themselves in: they know not the light. 
For to all of these alike is the morning as the shadow of death; for they are familiar with the terrors of the shadow of death. 
Swift are such men to flee on the face of the water; accursed is their field on the land; none of them turneth himself to the way, of the vineyards. 
Drought and heat speedily consume the snow-waters: so doth the grave those who have sinned. 
The mother that bore such a one will forget him; the worm will feed sweetly on him; he will be no more remembered; and like a tree will wickedness be broken. 
He ill-treateth the barren that heareth not; and to the widow he acteth not well. 
But he also draweth down the mighty with his power: he riseth up, no one is sure of life. 
To such God granteth to be in safety, that he may find support; and His eyes are upon their ways. 
They are exalted; in but a little while they are no more; and they are brought down low: like all others are they gathered in, and like the top of the ear of corn are they cut off. 
But if it be not so, who will prove me a liar, and render nought my word? 
