Jeremiah.
Chapter 11.
The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying, 
Hear ye the words of this covenant, and speak unto the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem; 
And say thou unto them, Thus hath said the Lord God of Israel, Cursed be the man that hearkeneth not to the words of this covenant, 
Which I commanded your fathers on the day that I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the iron furnace, saying, Hearken to my voice, and do the same, in accordance with all which I may command you; and so shall ye be to me for a people, and I will be to you for a God; 
In order that I may fulfill the oath which I have sworn unto your fathers, to give unto them a land flowing with milk and honey, as it is this day. And I answered, and said, So be it, O Lord. 
Then said the Lord unto me, Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, Hear ye the words of this covenant, and do them. 
For I earnestly warned your fathers on the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt even until this day, sending out early and warning, saying, Hearken to my voice; 
Yet they hearkened not, and inclined not their ear, but walked every one in the stubbornness of their evil heart: therefore did I bring over them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do; but which they did not. 
And the Lord said unto me, A conspiracy hath been found among the men of Judah, and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
They are returned again to the iniquities of their earlier forefathers, who had refused to hearken to my words; and they themselves are also gone after other gods to serve them: the house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my covenant which I made with their fathers. 
Therefore thus hath said the Lord, Behold, I will bring an evil upon them, from which they shall not be able to rid themselves; and they will cry unto me, but I will not hearken unto them. 
Then let the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem go, and cry unto the gods unto whom they offer incense; but they shall not save them in the least in the time of their distress. 
For equal to the number of thy cities were thy gods, O Judah; and equal to the number of the streets of Jerusalem have ye set up altars to the disgraceful idol, altars, to burn incense unto Ba'al. 
But thou—thou must not pray in behalf of this people, neither lift up in their behalf entreaty or prayer; for I will not hear at the time that they call unto me, because of their distress. 
What hath my beloved to do in my house, while she executeth the evil counsel of so many sinners? Yea, the holy flesh passeth away from thee; for even with thy wickedness, thou rejoicest still. 
An ever-green olive-tree, beautiful in fruit and form, did the Lord call thy name: with the noise of a great tumult hath he kindled fire around it, and they break off its branches. 
And the Lord of hosts, that planted thee, hath decreed evil against thee; on account of the wickedness of the house of Israel and of the house of Judah, which they have done against themselves, to provoke me to anger in offering incense unto Ba'al. 
And the Lord hath given me knowledge of it, and I know it: then didst thou let me see their doings. 
But I was like a sheep or an ox that is brought to the slaughter; and I knew not that they had devised devices against me, saying, “Let us destroy the tree with its fruit, and let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his name may not be remembered any more.” 
But, O Lord of hosts, that judgest righteously, that triest the reins and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them; for unto thee have I entrusted my cause. 
Therefore thus hath said the Lord concerning the men of 'Anathoth, that seek thy life, saying, “Thou shalt not prophesy in the name of the Lord, that thou mayest not die by our hand:” 
Therefore thus hath said the Lord of hosts, Behold, I will inflict punishment on them: the young men shall die by the sword; their sons and their daughters shall die by the famine; 
And no remnant shall remain of them; for I will bring evil upon the men of 'Anathoth, in the year of their punishment. 
