The Second Book of Samuel Otherwise Called The Second Book of the Kings.
Chapter 1.
Now it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was returned from smiting the 'Amalekites, that David abode in Ziklag two days. 
And it came to pass on the third day, that, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head: and it happened, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth, and prostrated himself. 
And David said unto him, From where comest thou? And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. 
And David said unto him, What took place there? I pray thee, tell me. And he said, That the people are fled from the battle, and that also many of the people are fallen and have died; and that also Saul and Jonathan his son are dead. 
And David said unto the young man that told him, How knowest thou that Saul is dead as also Jonathan his son? 
And the young man that told him said, I happened entirely by chance to be upon mount Gilboa', when, behold, there was Saul leaning upon his spear; and, lo, the chariots and horsemen had overtaken him. 
And he turned round, and he saw me, and called unto me, And I said, Here am I. 
And he said unto me, Who art thou! And I answered him, An 'Amalekite am I. 
And he said unto me, Place thyself, I pray thee, by me, and slay me; for a mortal tremor hath seized on me, although my life is yet whole in me. 
So I placed myself by him, and slew him, because I was sure that he could not live after his fall; and I took the crown that was upon his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and I have brought them unto my lord hither. 
David thereupon took hold of his clothes, and rent them; and so did likewise all the men that were with him: 
And they lamented, and wept, and fasted until the evening, for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of the Lord, and for the house of Israel; because they were fallen by the sword. 
And David said unto the young man that told him, Whence art thou? And he said, The son of a stranger, an 'Amalekite, am I. 
And David said unto him, How wast thou not afraid to stretch forth thy hand to destroy the Lord's anointed? 
And David called one of the young men, and said, Come near, and fall upon him. And he smote him that he died. 
And David said unto him, Thy blood is upon thy own head; for thy mouth hath testified against thee, saying, I myself have slain the Lord's anointed. 
And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son: 
And he said, That the children of Judah should be taught the bow; behold it is written in the book of Yashar. 
O beauty of Israel! upon the high places slain: how are the mighty fallen! 
Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Ashkelon; that the daughters of the Philistines may not be glad, that the daughters of the uncircumcised may not rejoice. 
O mountains of Gilboa', no dew, nor rain be upon you, nor fields of offerings; for there the shield of the mighty was stained, the shield of Saul, as though it had not been anointed with oil. 
From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turned never back, and the sword of Saul never returned empty. 
Saul and Jonathan, the beloved and the dear in their lives, were even in their death not divided: more than eagles were they swift, more than lions were they strong. 
O daughters of Israel, weep for Saul, who clothed you in scarlet, with beautiful dresses, who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel. 
How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! O Jonathan, on thy high places slain. 
I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan; very dear hast thou been unto me: wonderful was thy love for me, passing the love of women. 
How are the mighty fallen, and lost the instruments of war! 
