Proverbs.
Chapter 11.
Balances of deceit are an abomination of the Lord; but a full weight obtaineth his favor. 
When pride cometh, then cometh disgrace; but with the modest there is wisdom. 
The integrity of the upright guideth them; but the cunning of the treacherous destroyeth them. 
Wealth cannot profit on the day of wrath; but righteousness deliver from death. 
The righteousness of the perfect maketh even his way; but by his own wickedness will the wicked fall. 
The righteousness of the upright will deliver them; but through their own sinful desires are the treacherous caught. 
When a wicked man dieth, his hope vanisheth; and the expectation of his children is lost. 
The righteous is delivered out of distress, and the wicked cometh in his stead. 
With his mouth doth the hypocrite destroy his neighbor; but through knowledge are the righteous delivered. 
When it goeth well with the righteous, the town rejoiceth loudly: and when the wicked perish, there is joyful shouting. 
Through the blessing of the upright a city is exalted; but through the mouth of the wicked it is pulled down. 
He that despiseth his neighbor is void of sense; but a man of understanding maintaineth silence. 
He that walketh about as talebearer revealeth secrets; but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter. 
Where there is no wise guidance, a people must fall: but it will obtain help through the multitude of counsellors. 
With evil will he be overwhelmed that is surety for a stranger: but he that hateth giving the hand as pledge is safe. 
A woman endowed with grace will surely obtain honor; and the powerful will obtain riches. 
The man of kindness doth good to his own soul; but he that troubleth his own flesh is cruel. 
The wicked practiseth a work of falsehood; but he that soweth righteousness obtaineth the reward of truth. 
He who is firm in righteousness attaineth to life: and he that pursueth evil doth it to his own death. 
An abomination of the Lord are those of a perverse heart; but his favor is for those who are unblemished in their way. 
The hand of God being against his hand, the bad man shall not go unpunished; but the seed of the righteous shall escape. 
As a golden ring in a swine's snout, so is a handsome woman that hath thrown off discretion. 
The desire of the righteous is only good: but the hope of the wicked is the wrath of God. 
There is a man that scattereth gifts, and yet his wealth is increased: and there is one that withholdeth more than is proper, and still cometh only to want. 
A beneficent soul will be abundantly gratified; and he that refresheth others will be also refreshed himself. 
Him that withholdeth corn, the people will denounce; but blessing will be heaped upon the head of the one that selleth it. 
He that diligently searcheth after good seeketh favor; but if one inquireth after evil, it will come unto him. 
He that trusteth in his riches will surely fall; but the righteous shall grow like the leaves of a tree. 
He that troubleth his own house will inherit the wind; and the fool will become the servant to the wise of heart. 
The fruit of the righteous is of the tree of life, and the wise draweth souls to himself. 
Behold, the righteous is recompensed on the earth: how much more the wicked and the sinner. 
