Deuteronomy.
Chapter 7.
When the Lord thy God shall bring thee into the land whither thou goest to possess it, and cast out many nations before thee, the Hittites, and the Girgashites, and the Emorites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations, greater in number and mightier than thou; 
And when the Lord thy God shall give them up before thee, and thou dost smite them: thou shalt utterly destroy them; thou shalt not make any covenant with them, nor show mercy unto them. 
Neither shalt thou make marriages with them; thy daughters shalt thou not give unto his son, and his daughter shalt thou not take unto thy son. 
For he would turn away thy son from following me, so that they might serve other gods; and the anger of the Lord would be kindled against you, and he would destroy thee speedily. 
But thus shall ye do unto them: their altars shall ye pull down, and their statues shall ye break, and their groves shall ye cut down, and their graven images shall ye burn with fire. 
For thou art a holy people unto the Lord thy God; of thee the Lord thy God hath made choice to be unto himself a special people, above all the nations that are upon the face of the earth. 
Not because ye are more in number than all the nations, did the Lord desire you and make choice of you; for ye are the fewest of all the nations; 
But on account of the love of the Lord for you, and because he keepeth the oath which he hath sworn unto your fathers, hath the Lord brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the house of bond-men, out of the hand of Pharaoh the king of Egypt. 
Know then that the Eternal thy God, is the God, the faithful God, who keepeth the covenant and the mercy with those that love him and with those that keep his commandments to the thousandth generation; 
And repayeth those that hate him to their face, to destroy them; he will not delay to him that hateth him, he will repay him to his face. 
Therefore shalt thou keep the commandment, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which I command thee this day, to do them. 
And it shall come to pass in reward for that ye will hearken to these ordinances, and keep, and do them, that the Lord thy God will keep unto thee the covenant and the kindness which he hath sworn unto thy fathers: 
And he will love thee, and bless thee, and multiply thee; and he will bless the fruit of thy womb, and the fruit of thy land, thy corn, and thy wine, and thy oil, the increase of thy cattle, and the young of thy flocks, in the land which he hath sworn unto thy fathers to give unto thee. 
Blessed shalt thou be above all the nations; there shall not be a barren male or female among thee, nor among thy cattle. 
And the Lord will take away from thee all sickness; and all the evil diseases of Egypt, which thou knowest, will he not put upon thee; but he will lay them upon all those that hate thee. 
And thou shalt consume all the nations which the Lord thy God giveth unto thee; thy eye shall not look with pity upon them: and thou shalt not serve their gods; for that would be a snare unto thee. 
If thou shouldst say in thy heart, These nations are more numerous than I: how shall I be able to dispossess them? 
Thou shalt not be afraid of them; but thou shalt well remember what the Lord thy God did unto Pharaoh, and unto all Egypt; 
The great proofs which thy eyes have seen, and the signs, and the wonders, and the mighty hand, and the outstretched arm, whereby the Lord thy God brought thee out: in this wise will the Lord thy God do unto all the people of whom thou art afraid. 
Moreover the hornet will the Lord thy God send out against them, until they that are left, and hide themselves from thee, be destroyed. 
Thou shalt not be affrighted at them; for the Lord thy God is in the midst of thee, a mighty and terrible God. 
And the Lord thy God will chase out these nations before thee, little by little: thou shalt not be able to make an end of them speedily, lest the beasts of the field increase upon thee. 
And the Lord thy God will give them up before thee, and he will bring among them a mighty confusion, until they be destroyed. 
And he will give their kings into thy hand, and thou shalt destroy their name from under the heavens: no man shall be able to stand up before thee, until thou have destroyed them. 
The graven images of their gods shall ye burn with fire: thou shalt not covet the silver or gold that is on them, so that thou wouldst take it unto thyself, lest thou be ensnared thereby; for it is an abomination to the Lord thy God. 
And thou shalt not bring an abomination into thy house, lest thou become accursed like it: thou shalt utterly detest it, and thou shalt utterly abhor it; for it is accursed. 
