Numbers.
Chapter 29.
And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, shall ye have a holy convocation; no servile work shall ye do: a day of blowing the cornet shall it be unto you. 
And ye shall prepare as a burnt-offering for a sweet savor unto the Lord, one young bullock, one ram, seven sheep of the first year without blemish; 
And their meat-offering of fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for the bullock, and two tenth parts for the ram. 
And one tenth part for every sheep, of the seven sheep; 
And one he-goat for a sin-offering, to make an atonement for you: 
Besides the burnt-offering of the new moon, and its meat-offering, and the daily burnt-offering, and its meat-offering, and their drink-offerings, according unto their prescribed manner; for a sweet savor, a sacrifice made by fire unto the Lord. 
And on the tenth day of this seventh month shall ye have a holy convocation; and ye shall afflict your persons; no manner of work shall ye do. 
And ye shall bring as a burnt-offering unto the Lord for a sweet savor, one young bullock, one ram, seven sheep of the first year; without blemish shall they be unto you. 
And their meat-offering shall be of fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for the bullock, two tenth parts for the one ram, 
A tenth part each for every sheep, of the seven sheep; 
One he-goat for a sin-offering: besides the sin-offering of the atonement, and the continual burnt-offering, and the meat-offering thereof, and their drink-offerings. 
And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month shall ye have a holy convocation; no servile work shall ye do; and ye shall keep a feast unto the Lord seven days. 
And ye shall bring as a burnt-offering, a sacrifice made by fire, for a sweet savor unto the Lord, thirteen young bullocks, two rams, and fourteen sheep of the first year; without blemish shall they be. 
And their meat-offering shall be of fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for every bullock of the thirteen bullocks, two tenth parts for each one ram of the two rams, 
And a tenth part each for every sheep of the fourteen sheep. 
And one he-goat for a sin-offering: besides the continual burnt-offering, its meat-offering, and its drink-offering. 
And on the second day, twelve young bullocks, two rams, fourteen sheep of the first year without blemish; 
And their meat-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the sheep, shall be according to their number, after the prescribed manner; 
And one he-goat for a sin-offering: besides the continual burnt-offering, and the meat-offering thereof, and their drink-offerings. 
And on the third day eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen sheep of the first year without blemish; 
And their meat-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the sheep, shall be according to their number, after the prescribed manner; 
And one goat for a sin-offering: besides the continual burnt-offering, and its meat-offering, and its drink-offering. 
And on the fourth day ten bullocks, two rams, fourteen sheep of the first year without blemish; 
Their meat-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the sheep, shall be according to their number, after the prescribed manner; 
And one he-goat for a sin-offering: besides the continual burnt-offering, its meat-offering, and its drink-offering. 
And on the fifth day nine bullocks, two rams, fourteen sheep of the first year without blemish; 
And their meat-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the sheep, shall be according to their number, after the prescribed manner; 
And one goat for a sin-offering: besides the continual burnt-offering, and its meat-offering, and its drink-offering. 
And on the sixth day eight bullocks, two rams, fourteen sheep of the first year without blemish; 
And their meat-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the sheep, shall be according to their number, after the prescribed manner; 
And one goat for a sin-offering: besides the continual burnt-offering, its meat-offering, and its drink-offerings. 
And on the seventh day seven bullocks, two rams, fourteen sheep of the first year without blemish; 
And their meat-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the sheep, shall be according to their number, after their prescribed manner; 
And one goat for a sin-offering: besides the continual burnt-offering, its meat-offering, and its drink-offering. 
On the eighth day shall ye have a solemn assembly; no servile work shall ye do. 
And ye shall bring as a burnt-offering, a sacrifice made by fire, for a sweet savor unto the Lord, one bullock, one ram, seven sheep of the first year without blemish. 
Their meat-offering and their drink-offerings for the bullock, for the ram, and for the sheep, shall be according to their number, after the prescribed manner; 
And one goat for a sin-offering: besides the continual burnt-offering, and its meat-offering, and its drink-offering. 
These shall ye prepare unto the Lord on your appointed festivals; besides your vows, and your freewill-offerings, consisting of your burnt-offerings, and of your meat-offerings, and of your drink-offerings, and of your peace-offerings. 
(30:1) And Moses said to the children of Israel according to all that the Lord had commanded Moses. 
