Zechariah.
Chapter 6.
And I again lifted up my eyes, and looked, and behold, there came out four chariots from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of copper. 
In the first chariot were red horses; and in the second chariot, black horses: 
And in the third chariot, white horses; and in the fourth chariot, grizzled, ash-colored horses. 
And I began and said unto the angel that spoke with me, What are these, my lord? 
And the angel answered and said unto me, These are the four spirits of the heavens, which go forth after having stood before the Lord of all the earth. 
The chariot on which are black horses—these go forth into the north country; and the white go forth after them; and the grizzled go forth toward the south country. 
And the red-colored were gone forth, and sought to traverse the earth: and he said, Go, traverse the earth. So they traversed the earth. 
Then cried he loudly unto me, and spoke unto me, saying, Behold, these that are going toward the north country, have quieted the indignation of my spirit in the north country. 
And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 
Take from the exiles, from Cheldai, from Tobiyahu, and from Yeda'yah, and thou shalt come on the same day, and go into the house of Josiah the son of Zephanyah, whither they have arrived from Babylon; 
Take also silver and gold, and make crowns, and set them upon the head of Joshua, the son of Jehozadak the high priest; 
And thou shalt say unto him as followeth, Thus hath said the Lord of hosts, saying, Behold a man, Sprout is his name; since out of his own place shall he sprout up, even he shall build the temple of the Lord: 
Yea, he shall build the temple of the Lord; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule upon his throne; and a priest shall be upon his own throne; and the counsel of peace shall be between both of them. 
And the crowns shall be for Chelem, and for Tobiyah, and for Yeda'yah, and for Chen the son of Zephanyah, as a memorial in the temple of the Lord. 
And distant ones shall come and build on the temple of the Lord, and ye shall know that the Lord of hosts hath sent me unto you. And this shall come to pass, if ye will diligently hearken to the voice of the Lord your God. 
