Ezekiel.
Chapter 42.
And he led me forth into the outer court, on the way to the north side; and he brought me into the row of chambers that was opposite the main wing, and which was opposite the building toward the north; 
On the front side the length of which was a hundred cubits, up to the north door, while the breadth was fifty cubits. 
Opposite the twenty cubits which were for the inner court, and opposite the pavement which was for the outer court, was corner-pillar before corner-pillar in the three stories. 
And before the chambers was a walk of ten cubits in breadth toward the inner house, a way of one cubit in width; and their doors were toward the north. 
Now the upper chambers were shorter for the corner-pillar took away part of the space from them than the lowest and than the middle chambers of the building. 
For they were in three stories, but had not pillars like the pillars of the courts: therefore was something taken off the lowest and the middle ones as one ascended from the ground. 
And the wall that was without alongside the chambers, toward the outer court in front of the chambers, was in its length fifty cubits. 
For the length of the chambers that were in the outer court was fifty cubits; and lo, the whole space in front of the temple was one hundred cubits. 
And beneath these chambers was the entrance from the east side, as one goeth into them from the outer court. 
On the breadth of the wall of the court in an eastern direction before the main wing, and before the building, were chambers. 
And the way before them was of like appearance as that for the chambers which were on the north side, of the same length and the same breadth; and all their means of egress, and their arrangement, and their doors were of the like manner. 
And so also were the doors of the chambers that were on the south side, a door being on the head of the way, of the way directly before the wall on the east side, as one entereth into them. 
And he said unto me, The north chambers and the south chambers which are in front of the main wing,—these are the holy chambers, where the priests that approach unto the Lord shall eat the most holy things: there shall they lay the most holy things, namely, the meat-offering, and the sin-offering, and the trespass-offering; for the place is holy. 
When the priests enter therein, then shall they not go out of the sanctuary into the outer court; but there shall they lay down their garments wherein they may have ministered; for they are holy: and they shall put on other garments, and shall then approach to the court which is for the people. 
Now when he had finished the measurings of the inner house, he led me forth by the way of the gate which looked in an eastern direction, and measured it all round about. 
He measured the east side with the measuring-rod, five hundred rods, with the measuring-rod round about. 
He measured the north aide, five hundred rods, with the measuring-rod round about. 
The south side he measured, five hundred rods, with the measuring-rod. 
He turned about to the west side, and measured five hundred rods with the measuring-rod. 
On the four sides did he measure it by the wall that was all round about, five hundred rods in length, and in breadth five hundred, to make a separation between the holy place and the profane. 
