Psalms.
Chapter 50.
“A psalm of Assaph.” The God of gods, the Lord, speaketh, and calleth the earth, from the rising of the sun unto his setting. 
Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shineth forth. 
Our God is coming, and will not keep silence: a fire devoureth before him, and round him there rageth a mighty storm. 
He will call to the heavens above, and to the earth, to judge his people. 
“Gather together unto me my pious servants, who make a covenant with me by sacrifice.” 
And the heavens tell of his righteousness; for God is judge himself. Selah. 
“Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against thee: God, thy God, am I. 
Not because of thy sacrifices will I reprove thee; and thy burnt-offerings are continually before me. 
I will not take a bullock out of thy house, nor he-goats out of thy folds. 
For mine are all the beasts of the forest, the cattle upon a thousand mountains. 
I know all the fowls of the mountains: whatever moveth on the fields is with me. 
If I were hungry, I would not say it to thee; for mine is the world, and what filleth it. 
Do I eat the flesh of fatted bulls, or drink the blood of he-goats? 
Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay unto the Most High thy vows; 
And call on me on the day of distress: I will deliver thee,— and so wilt thou glorify me.” 
But unto the wicked God saith, “What hast thou to do to relate my statutes, and why bearest thou my covenant upon thy mouth? 
And yet thou hatest instruction, and castest my words behind thee. 
When thou seest a thief, then art thou pleased with him, and with adulterers hast thou thy portion. 
Thou lettest loose thy mouth with evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit. 
Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; against thy own mother's son thou utterest slander. 
These things hast thou done, and I kept silence: thou didst ween that I am like thyself; but I will reprove thee, and set it in order before thy eyes.” 
Do but reflect on this, ye that forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, with none to deliver. 
Whoso offereth thanksgiving glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth his course aright, will I show the salvation of God. 
