Isaiah.
Chapter 13.
The doom of Babylon, which Isaiah Amoz' son foresaw. 
Upon a high mountain lift ye up a banner, raise high your voice unto them, wave the hand, that they may enter into the gates of the princes. 
I have charged my prepared ones, I have also called my heroes for my anger, those that rejoice in my highness. 
There is a noise of tumult on the mountains, like that of a numerous people; a noise of shouting of kingdoms of nations assembled; the Lord of hosts mustereth a host of battle. 
They are coming from a far-off country, from the end of the heavens, here is the Lord, with the weapons of his indignation, to destroy all the land. 
Wail ye; for nigh is the day of the Lord; like wasting from the Almighty shall it come. 
Therefore all hands shall become weak, and every mortal's heart shall melt; 
And they shall be affrighted, pangs and pains shall seize on them; they shall have throes as a woman that travaileth; one at the other shall they look amazed; red like flames shall their faces glow. 
Behold, the day of the Lord cometh, direful, laden with wrath and the fierceness of anger, to render the earth desolate: and its sinners will he destroy out of it. 
For the stars of the heavens and their constellations shall not give forth their light: the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and the moon shall not shed abroad her light. 
And I will visit on the world its evil, and on the wicked their iniquity; and I will stop the arrogance of the presumptuous, and the haughtiness of the tyrants will I humble. 
I will make the mortal more precious than fine gold; and man, more than the valued metal of Ophir. 
Therefore will I shake the heavens, and the earth shall start quaking out of her place, at the wrath of the Lord of hosts, and on the day of his fierce anger. 
And the people shall be as the chased roe, and as flocks which no one gathereth up; every man to his own people shall they turn, and every man into his own land shall they flee. 
Every one that is found shall be thrust through; and every one that is joined unto them shall fall by the sword. 
And their babes shall be dashed to pieces before their eyes: spoiled shall be their houses, and their wives ravished. 
Behold, I will stir up against them the Medes; who will not regard silver, and who will not delight in gold. 
And their bows will dash young men to pieces; and on the fruit of the womb will they have no mercy; on children their eye will not look with pity. 
And thus shall Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the proud ornament of the Chaldeans, become like the overthrow through God of Sodom and Gomorrah. 
It shall not be inhabited for ever, and it shall not be dwelt in from generation to generation; nor shall the Arabian pitch there his tent; and shepherds shall not let their flocks rest there. 
But there shall rest the wild beasts of the desert; and their houses shall be full of owls; and ostriches shall dwell there, and evil spirits shall dance there. 
And jackals shall howl in her palaces, and monsters in the temples of pleasure; and near to come is her time, and her days shall not be extended. 
