Job.
Chapter 33.
Therefore do thou but hear, O Job, my speeches, and give ear to all my words. 
Behold now, I have opened my mouth, my tongue speaketh in my mouth. 
Out of my straightforward heart come my sayings, and my lips utter knowledge clearly. 
The spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty giveth me life. 
If thou canst, answer me, array thyself before me, stand forward. 
Behold, I am in the same relation as thyself toward God: I myself also am cut out of the clay. 
Behold, dread of me cannot terrify thee, and my pressure will not be too heavy upon thee. 
But thou hast said before my ears, and the sound of the words I still hear, 
“I am pure without transgression, I am quite clean; and there is no iniquity in me: 
Yet, behold, he findeth hateful backsliding on me, he regardeth me as an enemy unto him; 
He putteth my feet in the stocks, he watcheth all my paths.” 
Behold, In this thou art not just: I will answer thee; for God is far greater than a mortal. 
Why dost thou contend against him? for with all his words will he not give an answer. 
For God speaketh once, yea twice: yet man regardeth it not. 
In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, in slumbers upon the couch: 
Then doth he lay open the ear of men, and sealeth it with their warning; 
To remove the son of earth from his intended deed and he covereth up pride from man; 
He withholdeth his soul from the pit, and his life from passing away by the sword. 
And so is he admonished by pain upon his couch, and all his bones with violent aches. 
So that his inclination abhorreth bread, and his soul, the most agreeable food. 
His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot be seen, and his bones that were not seen stick out. 
Yea, his soul draweth near unto the pit, and his life to those that slay. 
If there be now about him one single angel, as defender, one out of a thousand, to tell for man his uprightness: 
Then is he gracious unto him, and saith, Release him from going down to the pit, I have found an atonement. 
His flesh becometh full again as in youth: he returneth to the days of his boyhood. 
He will offer his entreaty unto God, and he will receive him in favor, that he may see his face with joy: so doth He recompense unto the mortal his righteousness. 
He then should assemble men around, and say, “I had sinned, and perverted what is right, yet have I not received a like return.” 
Thus he redeemeth his soul from passing into the pit, and his life will look joyously on the light. 
Lo, all these things doth God two or three times with man; 
To bring back his soul from the pit, that she may shine in the light of life. 
Listen well, O Job, hearken unto me: keep silence, and I will truly speak. 
If thou hast any words, answer me: speak, for I wish to justify thee. 
If not, hearken thou unto me: keep silence, and I will teach thee wisdom. 
