Ezra.
Chapter 1.
And in the first year of Cyrus the king of Persia, at the time the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah was accomplished, the Lord awakened the spirit of Cyrus the king of Persia; and he caused a proclamation to be made throughout all his kingdom, and also by means of writing, saying, 
Thus hath said Cyrus the king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the earth hath the Lord the God of heaven given unto me; and he hath directed me to build for him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. 
Whoever among you that is of all his people, may his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build the house of the Lord the God of Israel, he is the God who is in Jerusalem. 
And whosoever remaineth out of any place where he hath sojourned, him shall the men of his place assist with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with beasts, beside the freewill offering for the house of God which is in Jerusalem. 
Then rose up the chiefs of the divisions of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests, and the Levites, with all those whose spirit God had awakened, to go up to build the house of the Lord which is in Jerusalem. 
And all those that were round about them supplied them with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with beasts, and with precious things, beside all that was willingly offered. 
Also king Cyrus brought forth the vessels of the house of the Lord, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought away out of Jerusalem, and had placed in the house of his god: 
Even these did Cyrus the king of Persia bring forth through the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and counted them out unto Sheshbazzar the prince for Judah. 
And this is their number: Thirty chargers of gold, a thousand chargers of silver, nine and twenty knives, 
Thirty cups of gold, silver cups of a second degree four hundred and ten, other vessels a thousand. 
All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four hundred. All these did Sheshbazzar bring up with the exiles that were brought up from Babylon unto Jerusalem. 
