Psalms.
Chapter 72.
“By Solomon.” O God, give unto the king thy decisions, and thy righteousness unto the king's son. 
He shall decide for thy people with righteousness, and for thy afflicted with justice. 
The mountains shall bear peace for the people, and the hills the same, through righteousness. 
He shall judge the afflicted of the people, he shall give help to the children of the needy; but he shall crush the oppressor. 
They shall fear thee as long as the sun shineth, and in the presence of the moon, throughout all generations. 
He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass, as showers which are dropping on the earth. 
In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace shall be till the moon shall be no more. 
And he shall have dominion from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth. 
Before him shall bend down those that dwell in the wilderness; and his enemies shall lick the dust. 
The kings of Tharshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts. 
Yea, there shall bow down before him all kings: all nations shall serve him. 
For he will deliver the needy when he crieth; the afflicted also, who hath no helper. 
He will spare the poor and needy; and the souls of the needy will he assist. 
From wrong and violence will he deliver their soul; and precious shall their blood be in his eyes. 
And he shall live; and he will give him of the gold of Sheba: and he will pray in his behalf continually; all the time will he bless him. 
There shall be an abundance of corn in the land; upon the top of the mountains its fruit shall shake like the trees of Lebanon; and men shall blossom out of the city like herbs of the earth. 
His name will endure for ever; in the presence of the sun his name shall flourish: and men shall bless themselves with him: all nations shall call him happy. 
Blessed be the Lord the God, the God of Israel, who alone doth wondrous things. 
And blessed he his glorious name for ever; and with his glory may the whole earth be filled: Amen, and Amen. 
Here are ended the prayers of David the son of Jesse. 
