Psalms.
Chapter 94.
O God, of vengeance, Lord! O God of vengeance, shine forth. 
Lift up thyself, O judge of the Earth! bring a recompense upon the proud. 
How long shall the wicked, O Lord—how long shall the wicked exult? 
They sputter, they speak hard things: all the workers of wickedness boast themselves. 
Thy people, O Lord! they crush, and thy heritage they afflict. 
The widow and the stranger they slay, and the fatherless they murder. 
And they say, The Lord will not see, and the God of Jacob will not take notice of it. 
Understand, ye brutish among the people: and ye fools, when will ye become intelligent! 
He that hath planted the ear, shall he not hear? or he that hath formed the eye, shall he not see? 
He that admonisheth nations, shall he not correct? is it not he that teacheth man knowledge! 
The Lord knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are nought. 
Happy is the man whom thou admonisheth, O Lord, and teachest him out of thy law: 
That thou mayest grant him repose from the days of evil, until the pot be dug for the wicked. 
For the Lord will not cast off his people, and his inheritance will he not forsake. 
For unto righteousness will justice return; and it shall be followed by all the upright in heart. 
Who will rise up for me against evil-doers? or who will stand forward for me against the workers of wickedness? 
Unless the Lord had been a help unto me, but a little would have been wanting that my soul had dwelt in the silence of death. 
When I said, My foot hath slipped: thy kindness, O Lord, sustained me. 
In the multitude of my painful thoughts within me, thy consolations delight my soul. 
Can there be associated with thee the throne of destructive wickedness, which frameth mischief as a law? 
They band themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and innocent blood do they condemn. 
But the Lord is become my defence, and my God, the rock of my refuge. 
And he will bring back upon them their own injustice, and in their own wickedness will he destroy them: yea, he will destroy them—the Lord our God. 
