Deuteronomy.
Chapter 30.
And it shall come to pass, when all these things are come upon thee, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before thee, and thou reflectest on them in thy heart among all the nations, whither the Lord thy God hath driven thee, 
So that thou returnest unto the Lord thy God, and hearkenest unto his voice according to all that I command this day, thou and thy children, with all thy heart, and with all thy soul: 
That then the Lord thy God will restore thy captivity, and have mercy upon thee; and he will again gather thee from all the nations, whither the Lord thy God hath scattered thee. 
If thy outcasts be at the outmost parts of heaven, from there will the Lord thy God gather thee, and from there will he fetch thee: 
And the Lord thy God will bring thee into the land which thy fathers possessed, and thou shalt possess it; and he will do thee good, and multiply thee above thy fathers. 
And the Lord thy God will circumcise thy heart, and the heart of thy seed, to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, in order that thou mayest live. 
And the Lord thy God will put all these denunciations upon thy enemies, and on those that hate thee, who have persecuted thee. 
And thou wilt return and hearken unto the voice of the Lord, and thou wilt do all his commandments which I command thee this day. 
And the Lord thy God will make thee pre-eminent in every work of thy hand, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle, and in the fruit of thy land, for good; for the Lord will again rejoice over thee for good, as he rejoiced over thy fathers; 
If thou wilt hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which are written in this book of the law; if thou wilt return unto the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul. 
For this commandment which I command thee this day, is not hidden from thee, nor is it far off. 
It is not in heaven; that thou shouldst say, Who will go up for us to heaven, and fetch it down unto us, and cause us to hear it, that we may do it? 
Neither is it beyond the sea; that thou shouldst say, Who will go over the sea for us, and fetch it unto us, and cause us to hear it, that we may do it! 
But the word is very nigh unto thee, in thy mouth, and in thy heart, that thou mayest do it. 
See, I have set before thee this day life and the good, death and the evil; 
In that I command thee this day to love the Lord thy God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments and his statutes and his ordinances; that thou mayest live and multiply; and that the Lord thy God may bless thee in the land whither thou goest to possess it. 
But if thy heart turn away, so that thou wilt not hearken, and thou sufferest thyself to be drawn away, and thou bowest down to other gods, and servest them: 
I announce unto you this day, that ye shall surely perish; ye shall not remain many days upon the land, whither thou passest over the Jordan to go thither to possess it. 
I call heaven and earth as witnesses against you this day, that I have set before you life and death, the blessing and the curse; therefore choose thou life, in order that thou mayest live, both thou and thy seed; 
To love the Lord thy God, to hearken to his voice, and to cleave unto him; for he is thy life, and the length of thy days; that thou mayest dwell in the land which the Lord swore unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give unto them. 
