1 Chronicles.
Chapter 13.
And David consulted with the officers of the thousands and hundreds, and with every leader. 
And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, if it seem good unto you, and if it be of the Lord our God, let us send widely about unto our brethren who are left in all the lands of Israel, and with them unto the priests and Levites who are in their cities and open districts, that they may gather themselves together unto us. 
And let us bring round the ark of our God to us; for we have inquired not at it in the days of Saul. 
And all the congregation said that this should be done; for the king was right in the eyes of all the people. 
So David assembled all Israel together, from Shichor of Egypt even unto the entrance of Chemath, to bring the ark of God from Kiryath-ye'arim. 
And David went up, with all Israel, to Ba'alah, that is to Kiryath-ye'arim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up thence the ark of God the Lord, that dwelleth between the cherubim, whose name is called on it. 
And they conveyed the ark of God in a new wagon out of the house of Abinadab: and 'Uzza and Achyo guided the wagon. 
And David and all Israel played before God with all their might, and with singing, and on harps, and on psalteries, and on tambourines, and with cymbals, and with trumpets. 
And when they came as far as the threshing-floor of Kidon, 'Uzza put forth his hand to take hold of the ark; for the oxen shook it. 
And the anger of the Lord was kindled against 'Uzza, and he smote him, because he had put forth his hand toward the ark: and he died there before God. 
And it was grievious to David, because the Lord had suddenly taken away 'Uzza; and he called that place Perez-'uzza Breach of 'Uzza until this day. 
And David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bring home to me the ark of God? 
So David removed not the ark unto himself into the city of David, but had it carried round into the house of 'Obed-edom the Gittite. 
And the ark of God remained in the house of 'Obed-edom, in his house, three months. And the Lord blessed the house of 'Obed-edom, and all that belonged to him. 
