Genesis.
Chapter 21.
And the Lord visited Sarah as he had said, and the Lord did unto Sarah as he had spoken. 
And Sarah conceived, and bore unto Abraham a son in his old age, at the appointed time of which God had spoken to him. 
And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bore to him, Isaac. 
And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac, at eight days old, as God had commanded him. 
And Abraham was a hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born unto him. 
And Sarah said, God hath made me joy, whoever heareth it will laugh concerning me. 
And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarai should have given children suck? yet I have born a son in his old age. 
And the child grew, and was weaned; and Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. 
And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had born unto Abraham, mocking. 
Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bond-woman and her son; for the son of this bond-woman shall not be heir with my son, with Isaac. 
And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's eyes, because of his son. 
And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy eyes because of the lad, and because of thy bond-woman; in all that Sarah may say unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy seed be called. 
And also of the son of the bond-woman will I make a nation, because he is thy seed. 
And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it onto her shoulder, and the child, and sent her away; and she departed, and wandered astray in the wilderness of Beer-sheba. 
And the water was spent from the bottle, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs. 
And she went, and seated herself down at some distance, a good way off, about a bow-shot; for she said, I cannot look on when the child dieth; so she sat at a distance, and lifted up her voice, and wept. 
And God heard the voice of the lad; and an angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar? Fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad, there where he is. 
Arise, lift up the lad, and lay hold on him with thy hand; for I will make of him a great nation. 
And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water: and she went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink. 
And God was with the lad; and he grew up, and dwelt in the wilderness, and became an archer. 
And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran; and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt. 
And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech, and Phichol the chief captain of his host, spoke unto Abraham, saying, God is with thee in all that thou doest: 
Now therefore swear unto me here by God, that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son's son; but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee, shalt thou do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned. 
And Abraham said, I will swear. 
And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which Abimelech's servants had violently taken away. 
And Abimelech said, I know not who hath done this thing: neither didst thou tell me; nor have I heard of it except this day. 
And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech; and both of them made a covenant. 
And Abraham set seven ewe-lambs of the flock, by themselves. 
And Abimelech said unto Abraham; What mean these seven ewe-lambs which thou hast set by themselves? 
And he said, For these seven ewe-lambs shalt thou take from my hand, that they may be a witness unto me that I have dug this well. 
Wherefore he called that place Beer-sheba; because there they swore, both of them. 
Thus they made a covenant at Beer-sheba; then Abimelech rose up, and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the land of the Philistines. 
And Abraham planted an orchard in Beer-sheba, and called there on the name of the Lord, the God of everlasting. 
And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines many days. 
