Proverbs.
Chapter 28.
Every wicked fleeth when no man pursueth; but the righteous are like the confident young lion. 
When there is transgression in a land, it hath many for its princes; but under a man of understanding and knowledge its prosperity will long continue. 
A poor man that oppresseth the indigent is like a sweeping rain which bringeth no bread. 
They that forsake the law praise the wicked; but such as observe the law contend with them. 
Bad men understand not justice; but they that seek the Lord understand all things. 
Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than he that is perverse in his ways, though he be rich. 
Whoso keepeth the law is an intelligent son; but he that is a companion of gluttons bringeth dishonor on his father. 
He that increaseth his wealth by interest and usury will gather it for him that will be kind to the poor. 
When one turneth away his ear so as not to listen to the law, even his prayer becometh an abomination. 
Whoso causeth the upright to go astray on an evil way, will surely fall into his own ditch; but the men of integrity will inherit what is good. 
The rich man is wise in his own eyes; but the indigent that hath understanding can search him through. 
When the righteous exult, there is great splendor; but when the wicked rise up, a man hath to be sought for. 
He that concealeth his transgressions will not prosper; but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them will obtain mercy. 
Happy is the man that always dreadeth to do evil; but he that hardeneth his heart will fall into unhappiness. 
As a roaring lion, and a greedy bear, so is a wicked ruler over an indigent people. 
The prince that is void of understanding is also a great oppressor; but he that hateth unjust gain will prolong his days. 
A man oppressed by the load of having shed human blood will flee even to the pit: let no man hold him. 
Whoso walketh in integrity will be saved; but he that walketh perversely on two paths, will fall on one. 
He that tilleth his ground will have plenty of bread; but he that runneth after idle persons will have enough of poverty. 
A faithful man will abound with blessings; but he that maketh haste to be rich will not go unpunished. 
To have respect to persons is not good; because even for a piece of bread will a man transgress. 
He that is eager for wealth is a man of an evil eye, and he knoweth not that want will come upon him. 
He that reproveth a man after my example will obtain more grace than he that flattereth with the tongue. 
Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and saith, it is no transgression,—the same is a companion of a destroyer. 
He that hath an insatiable desire stirreth up strife: but he that putteth his trust in the Lord will be abundantly gratified. 
He that trusteth in his own sense is a fool; but whoso walketh in wisdom, will ever escape. 
He that giveth unto the poor will not have any want; but he that hideth his eyes will have an abundance of curses. 
When the wicked rise, men conceal themselves; but when they perish, the righteous increase. 
