Deuteronomy.
Chapter 22.
Thou shalt not see thy brother's ox or his lamb go astray, and withdraw thyself from them: thou shalt surely bring them back again unto thy brother. 
But if thy brother be not nigh unto thee, or thou know him not: then shalt thou take it unto thy own house, and it shall remain with thee until thy brother inquire after it, and then shalt thou restore it to him. 
In like manner shalt thou do with his ass; and in like manner shalt thou do with his raiment; and in like manner shalt thou do with every lost thing of thy brother's, which may have been lost to him, and which thou hast found; thou art not at liberty to withdraw thyself. 
Thou shalt not see thy brother's ass or his ox fallen down by the way, and withdraw thyself from them: thou shalt surely help him to lift them up again. 
A woman shall not have upon her the apparel of a man, and a man shall not put on a woman's garment; for an abomination unto the Lord thy God are all who do this. 
If a bird's nest chance to be before thee in the way, on any tree, or on the ground, with young ones, or with eggs, and the mother be sitting upon the young, or upon the eggs: thou shalt not take the mother with the young; 
But thou shalt surely let the mother go, and the young thou mayest take to thyself; in order that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest live many days. 
When thou buildest a new house, thou shalt make a battlement for thy roof; that thou bring not blood upon thy house, if any one were to fall from there. 
Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with divers seeds; that the ripe fruit of thy seed which thou hast sown, and the fruit of the vineyard, be not defiled. 
Thou shalt not plough with an ox and an ass together. 
Thou shalt not wear a garment of divers sorts, of woolen and linen together. 
Thou shalt make thyself fringes upon the four corners of thy vesture, wherewith thou coverest thyself. 
If any man take a wife, and go in unto her, and hate her, 
And he lay an accusation against her, and spread abroad an evil name upon her, and say, This woman I took for wife, and when I came near to her, I found no tokens of virginity in her: 
Then shall the father of the damsel, and her mother, take and bring forth the tokens of the damsel's virginity unto the elders of the city, to the gate. 
And the father of the damsel shall say unto the elders, My daughter I gave unto this man for wife; but he hath conceived hatred toward her; 
And, lo, he hath laid an accusation against her, saying, I have found no tokens of virginity in thy daughter; and yet these are the tokens of my daughter's virginity; and they shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city. 
And the elders of that city shall take that man and chastise him; 
And they shall amerce him in a hundred shekels of silver, and give them unto the father of the damsel; because he hath spread abroad an evil name upon a virgin of Israel; and she shall remain his wife; he shall not be at liberty to put her away all his days. 
But if this thing was true, there have not been found tokens of virginity in the damsel: 
Then shall they lead out the damsel to the door of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her with stones that she die; because she hath wrought a disgraceful deed in Israel, to commit incest in her father's house; and thou shalt put away the evil from the midst of thee. 
If a man be found lying with a woman married to a husband: then shall both of them die, the man that lieth with the woman, and the woman; and thou shalt put away the evil from Israel. 
If a damsel that is a virgin be betrothed unto a man, and a man find her in the city, and lie with her: 
Then shall ye lead them both out unto the gate of that city, and ye shall stone them with stones that they die; the damsel, because she cried not for aid in the city; and the man, because he hath done violence to his neighbor's wife; and thou shalt put away the evil from the midst of thee. 
But if in the field the man should find the betrothed damsel, and the man take hold of her by force, and lie with her: then shall the man that lay with her die alone; 
But unto the damsel shalt thou not do any thing; there is in the damsel no sin worthy of death; for as when a man riseth against his neighbor, and striketh him dead. even so is this matter; 
For in the field did he find her; had the betrothed damsel even cried, there would have been none to aid her. 
If a man find a damsel that is a virgin, who is not betrothed, and lay fast hold on her, and lie with her, and they be found: 
Then shall the man who lieth with her give unto the father of the damsel fifty shekels of silver; and she shall become his wife, because he hath done violence to her, he shall not be at liberty to put her away all his days. 
(23:1) A man shall not take his lather's wife, and he shall not uncover his father's skirt. 
