Deuteronomy.
Chapter 23.
(23:2) He that is wounded in the testicles, or hath his privy member cut, shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord. 
(23:3) One born from prohibited connections shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord; even the tenth generation of him shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord. 
(23:4) An 'Ammonite and a Moabite shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord; even the tenth generation of him shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord, for ever; 
(23:5) For the reason, that they met you not with bread and with water on the way, when ye came forth out of Egypt; and because he hired against thee Bil'am the son of Beor of Pethor in Mesopotamia, to curse thee; 
(23:6) But the Lord thy God would not hearken unto Bil'am; and the Lord thy God changed unto thee the curse into a blessing, because the Lord thy God loved thee. 
(23:7) Thou shalt not seek their peace and their welfare all thy days, for ever. 
(23:8) Thou shalt not abhor an Edomite; for he is thy brother; thou shalt not abhor an Egyptian; because thou wast a stranger in his land. 
(23:9) The children that are born unto them in the third generation, may enter of them into the congregation of the Lord. 
(23:10) When thou goest forth into camp against thy enemies, then keep thyself from every evil thing. 
(23:11) If there be among thee any man, that is not clean by reason of an occurrence by night; then shall he go abroad to without the camp, he shall not come within the camp; 
(23:12) But it shall be, that toward evening he shall bathe himself in water; and when the sun goeth down, he may come into the midst of the camp. 
(23:13) And a place shalt thou have without the camp, whither thou shalt go forth abroad: 
(23:14) And a spade shalt thou have with thy weapons: and it shall be, when thou sittest abroad, that thou shalt dig therewith, and shalt afterward cover that which cometh from thee; 
(23:15) For the Lord thy God walketh in the midst of thy camp, to deliver thee and to give up thy enemies before thee; therefore shall thy camp be holy; that he see no unseemly thing in thee, and turn away from thee. 
(23:16) Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant who may escape unto thee from his master; 
(23:17) With thee shall he dwell, in the midst of thee, in the place which he may choose in any one of thy gates, where it seemeth best to him: thou shalt not oppress him. 
(23:18) There shall not be a prostitute of the daughters of Israel, and there shall not be a sodomite of the sons of Israel. 
(23:19) Thou shalt not bring the hire of a harlot, or the price of a dog, into the house of the Lord thy God for any vow; for both of these are equally an abomination unto the Lord thy God. 
(23:20) Thou shalt not take interest from thy brother, interest of money, interest of victuals, interest of any thing that is lent upon interest: 
(23:21) From an alien thou mayest take interest; but from thy brother thou shalt not take interest; in order that the Lord thy God may bless thee in all the acquisition of thy hand, in the land whither thou goest to possess it. 
(23:22) When thou makest a vow unto the Lord thy God, thou shalt not delay to pay it; for the Lord thy God will surely require it of thee; and it would be sin in thee. 
(23:23) But if thou forbear to vow, it shall be no sin in thee. 
(23:24) What is gone out of thy lips shalt thou keep and perform, as thou hast vowed unto the Lord thy God voluntarily, as thou hast spoken with thy mouth. 
(23:25) When thou comest into thy neighbor's vineyard, thou mayest eat grapes at thy own pleasure, till thou have enough; but into thy vessel shalt thou not put any. 
(23:26) When thou comest into the standing corn of thy neighbor, thou mayest pluck ears with thy hand; but a sickle shall thou not move over thy neighbor's standing corn. 
