Exodus.
Chapter 2.
And there went a man of the house of Levi, and took a daughter of Levi. 
And the woman conceived, and bore a son; and when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. 
And when she could no longer hide him, she took for him a box of bulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitch; and she put the child therein, and laid it amidst the flags by the brink of the river. 
And his sister placed herself afar off, to ascertain what would be done to him. 
And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river; and her maidens walked along by the side of the river; and when she saw the box among the flags, she sent her maid and fetched it. 
And she opened it, and saw the child, and, behold, it was a weeping boy; and she had compassion on him, and said, This is one of the Hebrews' children. 
Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse for thee the child? 
And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go; and the maiden went and called the mother of the child. 
And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take away this child, and nurse him for me, and I will give thee thy wages; and the woman took the child, and nursed him. 
And the child grew up, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became to her as a son; and she called his name Moses; and she said, Because out of the water have I drawn him. 
And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown up, that he went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdensome labors; and he saw an Egyptian man smiting a Hebrew man, one of his brethren. 
And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no one by, he smote the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand. 
And when he went out the second day, behold, two Hebrew men were striving together; and he said unto him that was in the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? 
And he said, Who made thee a chief and a judge over us? intendest thou to kill me, as thou hast killed the Egyptian! And Moses feared, and said, Surely the thing is become known. 
And Pharaoh heard this thing, and he sought to slay Moses; but Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and tarried in the land of Midian, and he sat down by a well. 
Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters; and they came and drew water, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock. 
And the shepherds came and drove them away; but Moses arose and helped them, and watered their flock. 
And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, Wherefore are ye come home so soon today? 
And they said, An Egyptian man delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds; and he also drew water for us, and watered the flock. 
And he said unto his daughters, And where is he? wherefore have ye left the man? call him, that he may eat bread. 
And Moses was content to dwell with the man; and he gave Zipporah his daughter to Moses. 
And she bore a son, and he called his name Gershom; for he said, I have been a stranger in a foreign land. 
And it came to pass in this long time, that the king of Egypt died; and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried; and their complaint came up unto God by reason of the bondage. 
And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. 
And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God took cognizance of them. 
