Numbers.
Chapter 10.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Make unto thyself two trumpets of silver, beaten out of one piece shalt thou make them; and they shall serve thee for the calling of the congregation, and for the setting forward of the camps. 
And when they shall blow with both, all the congregation shall assemble themselves unto thee at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
And if they blow with but one, then shall assemble themselves unto thee the princes, the heads of the thousands of Israel. 
And when ye blow an alarm, then shall set forward the camps that encamp on the east side. 
And when ye blow an alarm the second time, then shall set forward the camps that encamp on the south side: an alarm shall they blow for their setting forward. 
But at the assembling of the assembly, ye shall blow, but ye shall not sound an alarm. 
And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow with the trumpets; and they shall be to you for an ordinance for ever throughout your generations. 
And if ye go to war in your land against the oppressor that oppresseth you, then shall ye blow an alarm with the trumpets; and ye shall be remembered before the Lord your God, and ye shall be saved from your enemies. 
And on the day of your gladness, and on your appointed festivals, and on the beginnings of your months, shall ye blow with the trumpets over your burnt-offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace-offerings; and they shall be to you for a memorial before your God: I am the Lord your God. 
And it came to pass in the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, that the cloud was taken up from off the tabernacle of the testimony. 
And the children of Israel set forward on their journeys from the wilderness of Sinai, and the cloud halted in the wilderness of Paran. 
And they set forward for the first time at the order of the Lord by the hand of Moses. 
And the standard of the camp of the children of Judah set forward at the first, according to their armies: and over their host was Nachshon the son of 'Amminadab. 
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Issachar was Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Chelon. 
And in the mean time the tabernacle was taken down; and then set forward the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari, the bearers of the tabernacle. 
Then set forward the standard of the camp of Reuben, according to their armies: and over their host was Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. 
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Gad was Elyassaph the son of Deuel. 
And then set forward the Kehathites, the bearers of the sanctuary: and the others set up the tabernacle against they came. 
Then set forward the standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim according to their armies; and over their host was Elishama the son of 'Ammihud. 
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Menasseh was Gamliel the son of Pedahzur. 
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gidoni. 
Then set forward the standard of the camp of the children of Dan, the rereward of all the camps, according to their hosts: and over their host was Achiezer the son of 'Ammishaddai. 
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the son of 'Ochran. 
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Achira the son of 'Enan. 
In this order were the journeyings of the children of Israel according to their armies, when they set forward. 
And Moses said unto Chobab, the son of Reuel the Midianite, the father-in-law of Moses, We are journeying unto the place of which the Lord hath said, This will I give unto you: come thou with us, and we will do thee good; for the Lord hath spoken to bring good upon Israel. 
And he said unto him, I will not go; but to my own land, and to my birthplace will I go. 
And he said, Do not, I pray thee, leave us; since thou didst find out the places where we were to encamp in the wilderness, and thou hast been to us instead of eyes. 
And it shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be, that the same goodness which the Lord may do unto us, will we do unto thee. 
And they set forward from the mount of the Lord a three days' journey; and the ark of the covenant of the Lord went before them in the three days' journey, to search out for them a resting-place. 
And the cloud of the Lord was over them by day, when they set forward from the camp. 
And it came to pass, when the ark set forward, that Moses said, Rise up, Lord, and let thy enemies be scattered; and let those that hate thee flee before thy face. 
And when it rested, he said, Return, O Lord, among thy myriads of the thousands of Israel. 
