Job.
Chapter 13.
Lo, all this hath my eye seen, my ear hath heard and noted it for itself; 
As much as ye know, do I also know: I do not fall short compared with you. 
However, I would gladly speak to the Almighty; and to argue with God do I desire. 
But ye are inventors of falsehood, physicians of no value are all of you. 
Oh, who would grant that ye might keep a profound silences! and it would he accounted unto you as wisdom. 
Do hearken but to my reasoning, and listen to the pleadings of my lips. 
Will ye speak wrong things for God? and will ye speak for him deceitfully? 
Will ye show him undue favor, when ye contend for God? 
Will it be well if he should search you out? or as one overreacheth another mortal, do ye expect to overreach him? 
He will surely reprove you, if in secret you show him undue favor. 
Doth not his excellency terrify you? and his dread fall upon you? 
The things you remember are mere proverbs of ashes, your high-places are high-places of clay. 
Keep silence toward me, that I may indeed speak, and let pass over me what will. 
Whatever it may cost, I will take my flesh in my teeth, and my life will I put in my hand. 
Lo, though he slay me, yet will I trust in him: only I will argue my own ways before him. 
Even he will come to my assistance; for a hypocrite cannot come before him. 
Listen well to my word, and to my demonstration with your ears. 
Behold now, I have arrayed my cause: I know that I shall be indeed justified. 
Who is he that will contend with me? for now, if I keep silence, I must perish. 
Only two things do not unto me: then will I not hide myself from thy presence. 
Remove thy hand far from me; and let not thy dread terrify me. 
Then call thou, and I will answer; or let me speak, and do thou reply to me. 
How many are my iniquities and sins? my transgression and my sin let me know. 
Wherefore wilt thou hide thy face, and regard me as an enemy unto thee? 
Wilt thou terrify a leaf driven about by the wind? and wilt thou pursue dry stubble? 
That thou writest bitter decrees against me, and assignest unto me the iniquities of my youth; 
And that thou puttest my feet in the stocks, and watchest narrowly all my paths; and settest for thyself a mark upon the soles of my feet? 
And yet the body decayeth like a rotten thing, as a garment that the moth hath eaten. 
