Ruth.
Chapter 2.
And Na'omi had a kinsman of her husband's, a mighty, valiant man, of the family of Elimelech, whose name was Bo'az. 
And Ruth the Moabitess said unto Na'omi, Let me go, I pray thee, into the field, and glean ears of corn after him in whose eyes I shall find grace. And she said unto her, Go, my daughter. 
And she went, and came, and gleaned in the field after the reapers; and the accident happened to her, that it was a part of the field belonging unto Bo'az, who was of the family of Elimelech. 
And, behold, Bo'az came from Beth-lechem, and he said unto the reapers, The Lord be with you. And they said unto him, May the Lord bless thee. 
Then said Bo'az unto his young man that was appointed over the reapers, Whose maiden is this? 
And the young man that was appointed over the reapers answered and said, It is a Moabitish maiden that is returned with Na'omi out of the fields of Moab; 
And she said, Let me glean, I pray you, and gather among the sheaves after the reapers: so she came, and hath remained ever from the morning even until now; it is but a little while that she hath sat down in the house. 
Then said Bo'az unto Ruth, Hearest thou not, my daughter? Go not to glean in another field, neither go away from this; but keep close company with my own maidens. 
Let thy eyes be on the field which they may reap, and go thou after them; behold, I have charged the young men that they shall not touch thee: and when thou art thirsty, go unto the vessels, and drink of that which the young men may draw. 
Thereupon she fell on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, and said unto him, Why have I found grace in thy eyes, that thou shouldst take cognizance of me, seeing I am but a stranger? 
But Bo'az answered and said unto her, It hath fully been told me, all that thou hast done unto thy mother-in-law after the death of thy husband; and how thou hast forsaken thy father and thy mother, and the land of thy birth, and art come unto a people which thou knewest not yesterday or the day before. 
May the Lord recompense thy work, and may thy reward be complete from the Lord the God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come to seek shelter. 
Then said she, Let me find grace in thy eyes, my lord; for thou hast comforted me, and because thou hast spoken kindly unto the heart of thy handmaid, though I be not like one of thy handmaids. 
And Bo'az said unto her, At mealtime come near hither, and eat of the bread, and dip thy morsel in the vinegar. And she seated herself beside the reapers: and he reached her parched corn, and she ate, and was satisfied, and had some left. 
Then did she arise to glean: and Bo'az commanded his young men, saying, Even between the sheaves let her glean, and do not cause her to feel any shame; 
And ye shall also draw out some for her from the bundles on purpose, and leave it, that she may glean it, and ye shall not rebuke her. 
So she gleaned in the field until the evening; and when she beat out what she had gleaned, it was about an ephah of barley. 
And she took it up, and she went into the city; and her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned; and she brought forth and gave to her what she had left over after she was satisfied. 
And her mother-in-law said unto her, Where hast thou gleaned today? and where hast thou wrought? may he that took cognizance of thee be blessed. And she told her mother-in-law with whom she had wrought, and said, The name of the man with whom I wrought today is Bo'az. 
Then said Na'omi unto her daughter-in-law, Blessed be he unto the Lord, who hath not withheld his kindness from the living and from the dead. And Na'omi said unto her, The man is nearly related unto us, he is one of our next kinsmen. 
And Ruth the Moabitess said, He hath also said unto me, Thou shalt keep close company with my young men, until they have ended all my harvest. 
Then said Na'omi unto Ruth her daughter-in-law, It is good, my daughter, that thou go out with his maidens, and that men may not meet with thee in any other field. 
So she kept close company with the maidens of Bo'az in gleaning until the end of the barley-harvest and of the wheat-harvest; and she dwelt with her mother-in-law. 
