Ezekiel.
Chapter 13.
And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, 
Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel that prophesy, and say thou unto those that prophesy out of their own heart, Hear ye the word of the Lord: 
Thus hath said the Lord Eternal, Woe unto the scandalous prophets, that follow their own spirit, without having seen any thing! 
Like foxes among the ruins have been thy prophets, O Israel! 
Ye did not go up into the breaches, nor did ye make a fence around the house of Israel to stand in the battle on the day of the Lord. 
They saw falsehood and lying divination, they who say, “The Lord saith,” when the Lord had not sent them; and yet they made others hope for the fulfillment of the word. 
Had ye not seen a false vision, and had ye not said a lying divination? and ye say, “The Lord saith,” when I have not spoken. 
Therefore thus hath said the Lord Eternal, Whereas ye have spoken falsehood, and have seen lies: therefore, behold, I am against you, saith the Lord Eternal. 
And my hand shall be against the prophets that see false-hood, and that divine lies; in the secret council of my people shall they not be, and in the register of the house of Israel shall they not be written, and into the land of Israel shall they not come: and ye shall know that I am the Lord Eternal. 
Because, even because they have seduced my people, saying, “Peace,” when there was no peace: and my people build a protecting wall, and lo, they plaster it with unadhesive mortar. 
Say unto those who plaster it with unadhesive mortar, that it shall fall: there cometh an overflowing rain-shower; and ye, O great hailstones, shall fall; and a storm-wind shall rend it. 
And, lo, the wall is fallen down; will it not now be said unto you, Where is the plastering wherewith ye have plastered? 
Therefore thus hath said the Lord Eternal, I will even rend it with storm-winds in my fury; and an overflowing rain-shower shall come in my anger, with great hailstones in my fury to destroy it. 
And I will pull down the wall that ye have plastered with unadhesive mortar, and I will cast it down to the ground, so that the foundation thereof shall be laid open; and it shall fall, and ye shall be destroyed in the midst of it: and ye shall know that I am the Lord. 
Thus will I let out all my wrath upon the wall, and upon those that have plastered it with unadhesive mortar; and I will say unto you, Gone is the wall, and gone are they that plastered it; 
Namely, the prophets of Israel who prophesy concerning Jerusalem, and who see for her a vision of peace, when there is no peace, saith the Lord Eternal. 
But, thou son of man, set thy face against the daughters of thy people, who prophesy out of their own heart: and prophesy against them, 
And say, Thus hath said the Lord Eternal, Woe to the women that sew bolsters together for the armpits of all, and make cushions for the head of every stature, to hunt souls! Will ye hunt the souls of my people, that ye may keep your own soul alive? 
And ye profane me among my people for handfuls of barley and for bits of bread, to slay the souls that should not die, and to keep alive the souls that should not live, by your lying to my people that listen to lies! 
Therefore thus hath said the Lord Eternal, Behold, I am against your bolsters, whereon ye hunt the souls that they may flutter in your net, and I will tear them away from your arms; and I will let the souls go free, even the souls that ye hunt that they may flutter in your net. 
And I will tear away your cushions, and deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall be no more in your hand to be hunted: and ye shall know that I am the Lord. 
Because ye grieve the heart of the righteous with falsehood, when I have not given him pain; and strengthen the hands of the wicked, so that he should not return from his wicked way, through which he might live. 
Therefore shall ye see no more falsehood, and tell no more divinations; and I will deliver my people out of your hand: and ye shall know that I am the Lord. 
