Numbers.
Chapter 5.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Command the children of Israel, that they send out of the camp every leper, and every one that hath an issue, and whosoever is defiled by the dead: 
Both male and female shall ye send out, to without the camp shall ye send them; that they defile not their camps, in the midst whereof I dwell. 
And the children of Israel did so, and they sent them out to without the camp: as the Lord had spoken unto Moses, so did the children of Israel. 
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Speak unto the children of Israel, If any man or woman commit any sin against a fellow-man, thereby doing a trespass against the Lord, and this person thus become guilty: 
Then shall they confess their sin which they have committed; and he shall make restitution for his trespass with the principal thereof, and its fifth part shall he add thereto, and give it unto him against whom he hath trespassed. 
But if the man have no kinsman to whom restitution could be made for the trespass, then shall the trespass which is restored unto the Lord, belong to the priest; besides the ram of the atonement, whereby an atonement shall be made for him. 
And every offering of all the holy things of the children of Israel, which they bring unto the priest, shall be his. 
And every man's hallowed things shall be his: whatsoever any man giveth to the priest, shall belong to him. 
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, If the wife of any man go aside, and commit a trespass against him, 
And a man lie with her carnally, and it be hidden from the eyes of her husband, because she hath been secretly defiled; and there be no witness against her, and she have not been detected and in the fact; 
And the spirit of jealousy come over him, and he be jealous of his wife, and she have been defiled; or the spirit of jealousy come over him, and he be jealous of his wife, and she have not been defiled: 
Then shall the man bring his wife unto the priest, and he shall bring her offering for her, the tenth part of an ephah of barley-meal; he shall not pour any oil upon it, nor put any frankincense thereupon; for it is a meat-offering of jealousy, a meat-offering of memorial, bringing iniquity to remembrance. 
And the priest shall bring her near, and place her before the Lord; 
And the priest shall take holy water in an earthen vessel; and of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle the priest shall take, and put it into the water; 
And the priest shall place the woman before the Lord, and uncover the woman's head, and put upon her hands the meat-offering of memorial, it is the meat-offering of jealousy; and in the hand of the priest shall be the bitter waters that bring the curse. 
And the priest shall charge her by an oath, and he shall say unto the woman, If no man have lain with thee, and if thou hast not gone aside to uncleanness behind thy husband: then be thou free from these bitter waters that bring the curse. 
But if thou hast gone aside behind thy husband, and if thou hast been defiled, and some man have lain with thee besides thy husband:— 
And the priest shall charge the woman with an oath of imprecation, and the priest shall say unto the woman, The Lord then make thee a curse and an oath among thy people, when the Lord doth cause thy thigh to fall away, and thy belly to swell; 
And these waters that bring the curse shall go into thy bowels, to cause the belly to swell, and the thigh to fall away; and the woman shall say, Amen, amen. 
And the priest shall write these curses on a roll, and he shall blot them out with the bitter waters. 
And he shall cause the woman to drink the bitter waters that bring the curse: and the waters that bring the curse shall enter into her for bitterness. 
And the priest shall take out of the woman's hand the meat-offering of jealousy, and he shall wave the meat-offering before the Lord, and bring it near to the altar: 
And the priest shall take a handful from the meat-offering, as its memorial, and burn it upon the altar, and after that shall he cause the woman to drink the water. 
And when he hath made her drink the water, then shall it come to pass, if she have been defiled, and have committed a trespass against her husband, that the waters that bring the curse shall enter into her, for bitterness, and her belly shall swell, and her thigh shall fall away; and the woman shall become a curse among her people. 
And if the woman have not been defiled, but be clean: then shall she remain unharmed, and she shall conceive seed. 
This is the law of jealousies, when a woman goeth aside behind her husband, and hath been defiled; 
Or when the spirit of jealousy cometh over him, and he be jealous of his wife; and he shall place the woman before the Lord, and the priest shall do unto her altogether according to this law. 
And the man shall be guiltless from iniquity; but this woman shall bear her iniquity. 
