1 Chronicles.
Chapter 15.
And David made himself houses in the city of David, and he prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent. 
Then said David, None shall carry the ark of God but the Levites; for of them hath the Lord made choice to carry the ark of God, and to minister unto him for ever. 
And David assembled all Israel to Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the Lord unto its place, which he had prepared for it. 
And David gathered together the children of Aaron, and the Levites. 
Of the sons of Kehath: Uriel the chief, and his brethren one hundred and twenty. 
Of the sons of Merari: 'Assayah the chief, and his brethren two hundred and twenty. 
Of the sons of Gershom: Joel the chief, and his brethren one hundred and thirty. 
Of the sons of Elizaphan: Shema'yah the chief, and his brethren two hundred. 
Of the sons of Hebron: Eliel the chief, and his brethren eighty. 
Of the sons of 'Uzziel: 'Amminadab the chief, and his brethren one hundred and twelve. 
And David called for Zadok and Ebyathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, 'Assayah, and Joel, Shema'yah, and Eliel, and 'Amminadab, 
And he said unto them, Ye are the chiefs of the family divisions of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, ye and your brethren, and bring up the ark of the Lord the God of Israel unto the place which I have prepared for it. 
For, because ye did it not at the first, the Lord our God made a breach among us; because we had not sought him after the prescribed manner. 
So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of the Lord the God of Israel. 
And the children of the Levites bore the ark of God, as Moses had commanded according to the word of the Lord, on their shoulders, by means of barrows placed upon them. 
And David said to the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their brethren the singers with instruments of music, psalteries and harps and cymbals, to sing aloud, by lifting up the voice for joy. 
So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel, and of his brethren, Assaph the son of Berechyahu, and of the sons of Merari their brethren, Ethan the son of Kushayahu; 
And with them their brethren of the second degree, Zecharyahu, Ben, and Ja'aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jechiel, and 'Unni, Eliab, and Benayahu, and Ma'asseyahu, and Matthithyahu, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneyahu, and 'Obed-edom, and Je'iel, the gatekeepers. 
Namely, the singers, Heman, Assaph, and Ethan, to play aloud with cymbals of copper; 
And Zechariah, and 'Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jechiel, and 'Unni, and Eliab, and Ma'asseyahu, and Benayahu, with psalteries on 'Alamoth; 
And Matthithyahu, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneyahu, and 'Obed-edom, and Je-iel, and 'Azazyahu, with harps on the Sheminith to play as leaders. 
And Kenanyahu was the chief of the Levites in conducting the singing: he instructed in conducting the singing, because he was skilful. 
And Berechyah and Elkanah were gatekeepers for the ark. 
And Shebanyahu, and Joshaphat, and Nethanel, and 'Amassai, and Zecharyahu, and Benayahu, and Eli'ezer, the priests, did blow on the trumpets before the ark of God; and 'Obed-edom and Jechiyah were gatekeepers for the ark. 
And it was David, with the elders of Israel, and the officers over the thousands, who went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the Lord out of the house of 'Obed-edom with joy. 
And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of the Lord, that they offered seven bullocks and seven rams. 
And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and so were all the Levites that carried the ark, and the singers, and Kenanyahu the chief in conducting the singing of the singers; but David had also upon him an ephod of linen. 
Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the Lord with shouting, and with the sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and with cymbals, playing aloud on psalteries and harps. 
And it happened, as the ark of the covenant of the Lord came as far as the city of David, that Michal the daughter of Saul looked through the window, and saw king David dancing and playing, and she despised him in her heart. 
