Isaiah.
Chapter 48.
Hear ye this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the spring of Judah, who swear by the name of the Lord, and make mention of the God of Israel,—not in truth, nor in righteousness. 
For of the holy city they call themselves, and upon the God of Israel they stay themselves,—The Lord of hosts is his name. 
The former things have I declared from the beginning; and out of my mouth went they forth, and I announced them: suddenly did I accomplish them, and they came to pass; 
Because I knew that thou art obstinate, that like an iron sinew is thy neck, and thy brow of copper; 
And I declared it to thee from the beginning; before yet it came to pass did I let thee hear it: lest thou should say, My idol hath done these things, and my graven image, and my molten image, have ordained them. 
Thou hast heard it; see it all now; and you—will you not declare it? I caused thee to hear new things, from this time, even hidden things which thou hadst not known. 
Now are they created, and not from the beginning; and before the day that I announced them thou heardest them not; lest thou shouldest say, Behold, I knew them. 
But neither hadst thou heard it; nor didst thou know; nor had in ancient times thy ear been opened; for I knew that thou wouldst deal very treacherously, and a transgressor wast thou called from thy birth. 
For the sake of my name will I defer my anger, and because of my praise will I restrain it toward thee, so that I may not cut thee off. 
Behold, I have refined thee, though not into silver: I have approved thee in the crucible of affliction. 
For my own sake will I do it: for how would my name be dishonored? and my glory will I not give unto another. 
Hearken unto me, O Jacob, and Israel, my called one; I am he; I am the first, I also am the last. 
My hand also hath laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand hath spanned out the heavens: I call unto them, they stand forward together. 
Assemble yourselves, all of you, and hear: Who among them hath told these things? He whom the Lord loveth, will do his pleasure on Babylon, and display his arm on the Chaldeans. 
I, even I, have spoken it, I have also called him: I have brought him, and he shall be prosperous on his way. 
Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; never from the beginning have I spoken in secret; from the time that it occurred, was I there. And now the Lord Eternal hath sent me, and his Spirit. 
Thus hath said the Lord, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, I am the Lord thy God who teach thee for thy profit, who lead thee by the way thou shouldst go. 
Oh that thou hadst but listened to my commandments! then would have been as a river thy peace, and thy prosperity as the waves of the sea: 
And then would have been as the sand thy seed, and the offspring of thy body like the pebbles of the sea-shore; yet shall his name not be cut off nor destroyed from before me. 
Go forth out of Babylon, flee away from the Chaldeans, with the voice of singing declare, announce this, carry it forth as far as the end of the earth; say, The Lord hath redeemed his servant Jacob. 
And they thirsted not when he led them through the deserts; waters out of the rock he let drop down for them: and he cleaved the rock, and the waters gushed out. 
There is no peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked. 
