Genesis.
Chapter 35.
And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Beth-el, and dwell there; and make there an altar unto the God that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother. 
Then said Jacob unto his household, and to all that were with him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and cleanse yourselves, and change your garments. 
And let us arise, and go up to Beth-el: and I will make there an altar unto the God who answered me on the day of my distress, and was with me on the way which I went. 
And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand, and the earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was near Shechem. 
And they journeyed; and the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob. 
So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is, Beth-el, he and all the people that were with him. 
And he built there an altar, and called the place El-beth-el: because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his brother. 
And Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried beneath Beth-el under an oak: and he called its named Allon-bachuth. 
And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came from Padan-aram, and blessed him. 
And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob; thy name shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his name Israel. 
And God said unto him, I am God the Almighty; be fruitful and multiply; a nation and an assemblage of nations shall spring from thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins. 
And the land which I gave to Abraham and to Isaac, to thee will I give it; and to thy seed after thee will I give the land. 
And God went up from him on the place where he had spoken with him. 
And Jacob set up a pillar at the place where he had spoken with him, a pillar of stone; and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon. 
And Jacob called the name of the place where God had spoken with him, Beth-el. 
And they journeyed from Beth-el: and there was yet some distance to come to Ephrath, when Rachel travailed, and she had hard labor. 
And it came to pass, when she was in hard labor, that the midwife said unto her, Fear not; for this child also is a son for thee. 
And it came to pass, as her soul was departing, for she died that she called his name Ben-oni; but his father called him Benjamin. 
And so Rachel died, and was buried on the way to Ephrath, which is Beth-lechem. 
And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: this is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day. 
And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of flocks Eder. 
And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine; and Israel heard it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve. 
The sons of Leah, Jacob's first-born, Reuben, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun. 
The sons of Rachel, Joseph, and Benjamin. 
And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid, Dan, and Naphtali. 
And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid, Gad, and Asher: these are the sons of Jacob, that were born to him in Padan-aram. 
And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, the city of Arba', which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac had sojourned. 
And the days of Isaac were one hundred and eighty years. 
And Isaac departed this life, and died, and was gathered unto his people, old and full of days; and Esau and Jacob his sons buried him. 
