Leviticus.
Chapter 19.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Ye shall be holy; for I the Eternal your God am holy. 
Ye shall fear, every man, his mother and his father, and my sabbaths shall ye keep: I am the Lord your God. 
Ye shall not turn unto the idols, and molten gods shall ye not make to yourselves: I am the Lord your God. 
And if ye offer a sacrifice of peace-offering unto the Lord, ye shall offer it so that it may be favorably received from you. 
On the same day ye offer it shall it be eaten, and on the morrow: and whatever is left until the third day, shall be burnt with fire. 
And if the intention was that it should be eaten on the third day, it is an abomination, it shall not be favorably received. 
And whoever eateth it shall bear his iniquity; because he hath profaned the hallowed thing of the Lord: and that soul shall be cut off from among his people. 
And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather up the gleanings of thy harvest. 
And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, and the single grapes that drop in thy vineyard shalt thou not gather up; for the poor and the stranger shalt thou leave them: I am the Lord your God. 
Ye shall not steal; neither shall ye deny another's property in your hands, nor lie one to another. 
And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, and thou shalt not thus profane the name of thy God: I am the Lord. 
Thou shalt not withhold any thing from thy neighbor, nor rob him: there shall not abide with thee the wages of him that is hired, through the night until morning. 
Thou shalt not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling-block before the blind; but thou shalt be afraid of thy God: I am the Lord. 
Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment; thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the great; in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbor. 
Thou shalt not go up and down as a talebearer among thy people; thou shalt not stand idly by the blood of thy neighbor: I am the Lord. 
Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thy heart: thou shalt indeed rebuke thy neighbor, and not bear sin on account of him. 
Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people; but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself: I am the Lord. 
My statutes shall ye keep; thy cattle shalt thou not let gender with a diverse kind; thy field shalt thou not sow with mingled seeds; and a garment of mingled kinds, of linen and woollen, shall not come upon thee. 
And if a man lie carnally with a woman, that is a bond-maid, betrothed to a man, but who hath neither been redeemed, nor hath her freedom been given her: there shall a scourging be decreed; they shall not be put to death, because she was not free. 
And he shall bring his trespass-offering unto the Lord, unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: a ram for a trespass-offering. 
And the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass-offering before the Lord for his sin which he hath done; and he shall be forgiven for his sin which he hath committed. 
And when ye come into the land, and plant any kind of tree bearing edible fruit, then shall ye count the fruit thereof as uncircumcised: three years shall it be as uncircumcised unto you, it shall not be eaten. 
But in the fourth year shall all its fruit be holy for praise-giving unto the Lord. 
And in the fifth year shall ye eat of its fruit, in order that it may increase unto you its productiveness: I am the Lord your God. 
Ye shall not eat upon the blood; nor shall ye use enchantment, nor observe times. 
Ye shall not cut round the corners of the hair of your head, neither shalt thou destroy the corners of thy beard. 
And for the dead shall ye not make any incision in your flesh; and any etched-in writing shall you not fix on yourselves: I am the Lord. 
Do not profane thy daughter, to cause her to be a prostitute; lest the land fall to prostitution, and the land become full of incest. 
My sabbaths shall ye keep, and my sanctuary shall ye reverence: I am the Lord. 
Turn not unto them that have familiar spirits, and unto wizards; seek them not, to be defiled by them: I am the Lord your God. 
Before the hoary head shalt thou rise up, and honor the face of the old man; and thou shalt be afraid of thy God: I am the Lord. 
And if a stranger sojourn with thee, in your land, ye shall not vex him. 
As one born in the land among you, shall be unto you the stranger that sojourneth with you, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the Lord your God. 
Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in meteyard, in weight, or in measure. 
Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall ye have: I am the Lord your God, who have brought you forth out of the land of Egypt. 
Ye shall therefore observe all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them: I am the Lord. 
