Job.
Chapter 16.
Then answered Job, and said, 
I have heard many things such as these: troublesome comforters are ye all. 
Shall there be any end to words of wind? or what compelleth thee that thou shouldst answer? 
I also could well speak as ye do: if your soul were but in my soul's stead, I could overwhelm you with words, and could shake my head at you. 
But I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the condolence of my lips should restrain your grief. 
Though I were to speak, my pain would not be restrained; and though I should forbear, what will go away from me? 
But now he hath made me weary: thou hast made desolate all my company. 
And thou hast filled me with wrinkles, they are my witnesses; and my leanness riseth up for me, giveth its testimony to my face. 
In his wrath he teareth me to pieces, and assaileth me: he gnasheth over me with his teeth; my adversary sendeth threatening looks at me. 
They now open wide against me their mouth; reproachfully they smite my cheek: altogether do they assemble against me. 
God hath surrendered me to the unjust, and cast me down into the hands of the wicked. 
I was at ease, but he hath crushed me; he hath also grasped me by the neck, and shaken me to pieces, and set me up unto himself as a mark; 
His archers encompass me round about; he cleaveth my reins sunder, and doth not pity; he poureth out upon the ground my gall; 
He breaketh me down with breach upon breach; he runneth against me like a mighty man. 
Sackcloth have I sewed upon my skin, and my horn I roll in the dust. 
My face gloweth from weeping, and on my eyelids resteth the shadow of death: 
Not because any violence is in my hands, and while my prayer is pure. 
Earth! do thou not cover up my blood, and let no place restrain my cry. 
Even now, behold, my witness is in the heavens, and one that testifieth for me is on high. 
Are my friends my defenders? unto God my eye poureth out its tears. 
And oh that a man might plead with God, as one son of earth with the other! 
For when the numbered years are passed, then must I travel a path whence I cannot return. 
