Exodus.
Chapter 26.
The tabernacle also shalt thou make of ten curtains, of twisted linen thread, and blue, and purple, and scarlet yarn, with cherubim, of weaver's work shalt thou make them. 
The length of each curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits: there shall be one measure for all the curtains. 
Five of the curtains shall be coupled together, one to another; and the other five curtains shall be coupled, one to another. 
And thou shalt make loops of blue on the edge of the one curtain which is on the outside in the one coupling; and the like shalt thou make on the edge of the curtain which is the outmost in the second coupling. 
Fifty loops shalt thou make on the one curtain, and fifty loops shalt thou make on the edge of the curtain that is in the second coupling; the loops shall be fixed opposite each other. 
And thou shalt make fifty hooks of gold; and thou shalt couple the curtains together one unto the other with the hooks, and the tabernacle shall thus be one piece. 
And thou shalt make curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle; eleven curtains shalt thou make the same. 
The length of each curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits: there shall be one measure for the eleven curtains. 
And thou shalt couple five of the curtains by themselves, and six of the curtains by themselves; and thou shalt double the sixth curtain toward the front side of the tabernacle. 
And thou shalt make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is the outmost in the one coupling, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain of the second coupling. 
And thou shalt make fifty hooks of copper; and thou shalt put the hooks into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one piece. 
And the part hanging over in the excess of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain which is over, shall hang down over the back part of the tabernacle. 
And the cubit on the one side, and the cubit on the other side in the excess in the length of the curtains of the tent, shall be hanging down over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on that side, to cover it. 
And thou shalt make a cover for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a cover of badgers' skins above. 
And thou shalt make the boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood, standing up. 
Ten cubits shall be the length of each board, and a cubit and a half shall be the breadth of each one board. 
There shall be two tenons for every board, fitted in, one against the other: the like shalt thou make for all the boards of the tabernacle. 
And thou shalt make the boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side, on the right. 
And forty sockets of silver shalt thou make under the twenty boards; two sockets under the one board for its two tenons, and two sockets under the other board for its two tenons. 
And for the other side of the tabernacle, for the north side, there shall be twenty boards; 
And their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under the one board, and two sockets under the other board. 
And for the back wall of the tabernacle, westward, thou shalt make six boards. 
And two boards shalt thou make for the corners of the tabernacle in the back wall. 
And they shall be closely fitting together beneath, and they shall be closely joined together on the top by means of one ring: thus shall it be for both of them; for the two corners shall they be. 
And so they shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets: two sockets under the one board, and two sockets under the other board. 
And thou shalt make bars of shittim wood: five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle; 
And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle, for the back wall, westward; 
And the middle bar in the midst of the boards, passing from the one end to the other end. 
And the boards thou shalt overlay with gold, and their rings thou shalt make of gold, as receptacles for the bars; and thou shalt overlay the bars with gold. 
And thou shalt rear up the tabernacle, according to the fashion thereof, which thou hast been shown on the mount. 
And thou shalt make a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet yarn, and twisted linen, of weavers' work shall it be made, with cherubim. 
And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold: their hooks also shall be of gold; upon four sockets of silver. 
And thou shalt hang up the vail under the hooks; and thou shalt bring in thither within the vail the ark of the testimony; and the vail shall divide unto you between the holy place and the holy of holies. 
And thou shalt put the cover upon the ark of the testimony in the holy of holies. 
And thou shalt set the table without the vail, and the candlestick over against the table on the side of the tabernacle, toward the south; and the table thou shalt put on the north side. 
And thou shalt make a hanging for the door of the tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet yarn, and twisted linen; the work of the embroiderer. 
And thou shalt make for the hanging five pillars of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold, their hooks also shall be of gold; and thou shalt cast for them five sockets of copper. 
