Joshua.
Chapter 10.
Now it came to pass, when Adoni-zedek, the king of Jerusalem heard that Joshua had captured 'Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; that as he had done to Jericho and its king, so had he done to 'Ai and its king; and that the inhabitants of Gib'on had made peace with Israel, and were in the midst of them: 
That they were greatly afraid; because Gib'on was a great city, like one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than 'Ai, and all the men thereof were mighty. 
Therefore Adoni-zedek the king of Jerusalem sent unto Hoham the king of Hebron, and unto Piram the king of Yarmuth, and unto Yaphia', the king of Lachish, and unto Debir the king of 'Eglon, saying, 
Come up unto me, and help me, that we may smite Gib'on; for it hath made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel. 
And the five kings of the Emorites, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Yarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king of 'Eglon, assembled themselves together, and went up, they and all their camps, and encamped before Gib'on, and made war against it. 
And the men of Gib'on sent unto Joshua to the camp to Gilgal, saying, Do not withdraw thy hand from thy servants: come up to us quickly, and save us, and help us; for all the kings of the Emorites that dwell in the mountains are assembled together against us. 
And Joshua went up from Gilgal, he, and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valor. 
And the Lord said unto Joshua, Be not afraid of them; for into thy hand have I delivered them: there shall not stand a man of them before thee. 
And Joshua came unto them suddenly; the whole night he went up from Gilgal. 
And the Lord brought them in confusion before Israel, and they smote them with a great slaughter at Gib'on, and pursued them by the way of the ascent to Beth-choron, and smote them up to 'Azekah, and up to Makkedah. 
And it came to pass, as they fled from before Israel, while they were in the declivity of Beth-choron, that the Lord cast down upon them great stones from heaven, up to 'Azekah, and they died: there were more who died by means of the hailstones than those whom the children of Israel had slain with the sword. 
Then spoke Joshua to the Lord on the day when the Lord delivered up the Emorites before the children of Israel, and he said before the eyes of Israel, Sun, stand thou still upon Gib'on; and thou, Moon, in the valley of Ayalon. 
And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the people had avenged themselves upon their enemies. Is not this written in the book of Yashar? And the sun stood still in the midst of the heavens, and hastened not to go down about a whole day. 
And there was no day like that before it or after it, that the Lord hearkened unto the voice of a man; for the Lord fought for Israel. 
And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, unto the camp to Gilgal. 
But these five kings fled, and hid themselves in the cave at Makkedah. 
And it was told to Joshua, saying, The five kings have been found hidden in the cave at Makkedah. 
And Joshua said, Roll great stones to the mouth of the cave, and set men over it to guard them; 
But you, do ye not stay, pursue after your enemies, and smite the hindmost of them: suffer them not to enter into their cities; for the Lord your God hath delivered them into your hand. 
And it came to pass, when Joshua and the children of Israel had made an end of smiting them with a very great defeat, till they were all spent, and those that escaped had fled from them and entered into the fortified cities, 
That all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah in peace: no one pointed against any man of the children of Israel his tongue. 
Then said Joshua, Open the mouth of the cave, and bring out unto me those five kings out of the cave. 
And they did so, and brought forth unto him those five kings out of the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Yarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king of 'Eglon. 
And it came to pass, when they brought out those kings unto Joshua, that Joshua called for all the men of Israel, and said unto the chiefs of the men of war who had gone with him, Come near, put your feet upon the necks of these kings. And they came near, and put their feet upon their necks. 
And Joshua said unto them, Fear not, nor be disheartened, be strong and of good courage; for thus will the Lord do unto all your enemies against whom ye fight. 
And Joshua smote them afterward, and slew them, and hanged them on five trees; and they remained hanging upon the trees until the evening. 
And it came to pass at the time of the going down of the sun, that Joshua commanded, and they took them down from the trees, and cast them into the cave wherein they had been hidden; and they placed great stones upon the mouth of the cave, which remain even until this very day. 
And Joshua captured Makkedah on that day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and its king he devoted, them, and all the souls that were therein; he left none that escaped; and he did to the king of Makkedah as he had done unto the king of Jericho. 
Then did Joshua, and all Israel with him, pass from Makkedah unto Libnah; and he fought against Libnah; 
And the Lord delivered it also into the hand of Israel, with its king; and he smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls that were therein; he left none in it that escaped; and he did unto its king as he had done unto the king of Jericho. 
And Joshua, and all Israel with him, passed from Libnah unto Lachish, and encamped against it, and fought against it; 
And the Lord delivered Lachish into the hand of Israel; and he captured it on the second day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls that were therein: just as he had done to Libnah. 
Then came up Horam the king of Gezer to help Lachish; and Joshua smote him and his people, until he had left him none that escaped. 
And Joshua and all Israel with him passed from Lachish unto 'Eglon; and they encamped against it, and fought against it; 
And they captured it on that day, and smote it with the edge of the sword; and all the souls that were therein he devoted on that day: just as he had done to Lachish. 
And Joshua and all Israel with him went up from 'Eglon unto Hebron; and they fought against it; 
And they captured it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and its king, and all its cities, and all the souls that were therein; he left none that escaped, just as he had done to 'Eglon; and he devoted it, and all the souls that were therein. 
And Joshua and all Israel with him returned to Debir; and fought against it; 
And he captured it, and its king, and all its cities; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and devoted all the souls that were therein; he left none that escaped: as he had done to Hebron, so did he to Debir and to its king; and as he had done to Libnah and to its king. 
And Joshua smote all the country, the mountain, and the south, and the lowlands, and the declivities, and all their kings; he left none that escaped; and all that breathed he utterly destroyed, as the Lord, the God of Israel had commanded. 
And Joshua smote them from Kadesh-barnea' even unto Gazzah, and all the country of Goshen, even up to Gib'on. 
And all these kings and their land did Joshua capture at one time; because the Lord, the God of Israel fought for Israel. 
And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, unto the camp to Gilgal. 
