Exodus.
Chapter 16.
And they took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt. 
And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness: 
And the children of Israel said unto them, Would to God that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the flesh-pot, when we ate bread to the full; for ye have brought us forth into this wilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger. 
Then said the Lord unto Moses, Behold, I will let rain for you bread from heaven; and the people shall go out and gather a certain portion every day, in order that I may prove it, whether it will walk in my law, or not. 
And it shall come to pass, on the sixth day, when they prepare what they shall have brought in, that it shall be twice as much as they shall gather daily. 
And Moses and Aaron said unto all the children of Israel, At evening, then shall ye know that it is the Lord who hath brought you out from the land of Egypt: 
And in the morning, then shall ye see the glory of the Lord; since he heareth your murmurings against the Lord; and what are we, that ye should murmur against us? 
And Moses said, When the Lord giveth you in the evening flesh to eat, and bread in the morning to the full; since the Lord heareth your murmurings which ye murmur against him:—what are we then? not against us are your murmurings, but against the Lord. 
And Moses said unto Aaron, Say unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, Come near before the Lord; for he hath heard your murmurings. 
And it came to pass, as Aaron was speaking unto the whole congregation of the children of Israel, that they turned round toward the wilderness, and, behold, the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud. 
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel: speak unto them, saying, Toward evening ye shall eat flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread; and ye shall know that I am the Eternal your God. 
And it came to pass, that at evening the quails came up, and covered the camp; and in the morning there was a layer of dew round about the camp. 
And when the layer of dew was gone up, behold, there was upon the face of the wilderness something fine in grains, small as the hoar-frost, on the ground. 
And when the children of Israel saw it, they said one to another, It is manna, for they knew not what it was; and Moses said unto them, This is the bread which the Lord hath given you to eat. 
This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded, Gather of it every man according to his eating: an omer for every head, according to the number of your persons that every man hath in his tent, shall ye take. 
And the children of Israel did so; and they gathered, some much, some little. 
And when they measured it with an omer, he that had gathered much had nothing over, and he that had gathered little had no lack: every man according to his eating, had they gathered. 
And Moses said, Let no man leave of it till the morning. 
But they hearkened not unto Moses; but some men left of it until morning, and it bred worms, and stank; and Moses was wroth with them. 
And so they gathered it every morning, every man according to his eating; and when the sun waxed hot, it melted. 
And it came to pass on the sixth day, that they gathered twofold bread, two omers for every one; all the rulers of the congregation came and told it to Moses. 
And he said unto them. This is what the Lord hath spoken, A rest, a holy rest is unto the Lord tomorrow: that which ye will bake bake today, and what ye will seethe seethe today; and all the remaining lay up for you to be kept until the morning. 
And they laid it up till the morning, as Moses had bidden; and it did not stink, nor was there any worm therein. 
And Moses said, Eat it today; for a sabbath is this day unto the Lord: today ye will not find it in the field. 
Six days shall ye gather it; but on the seventh day, the sabbath, on it there shall be none. 
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that there went out some of the people to gather; but they found nothing. 
And the Lord said unto Moses, How long refuse ye to keep my commandments and my laws? 
See, that the Lord hath given you the sabbath, therefore he giveth you on the sixth day bread for two days; remain ye, every man in his place, let no man go out of his place on the seventh day. 
So the people rested on the seventh day. 
And the house of Israel called the name thereof Manna, Man; and it was like coriander-seed, white, and its taste was like wafers made with honey. 
And Moses said, This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded, One omer-full of it is to be kept for your generations; in order that they may see the bread which I gave you to eat in the wilderness, when I brought you forth out of the land of Egypt. 
And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a flask, and put therein an omer-full of manna, and lay it up before the Lord, to be kept for your generations. 
As the Lord had commanded Moses, so did Aaron lay it up before the Testimony, to be kept. 
And the children of Israel ate the manna forty years, until they came to an inhabited land; the manna they did eat, until they came unto the borders of the land of Canaan. 
But the omer is a tenth part of an ephah. 
