Psalms.
Chapter 104.
Bless, O my soul, the Lord. O Lord my God, thou art very great; with glory and majesty art thou clothed. 
Thou art he who wrappeth himself in light as with a garment; who stretcheth out the heavens like a curtain; 
Who frameth of the waters the beams of his upper-chambers; who maketh the clouds his chariot; who walketh along upon the wings of the wind: 
Who maketh the winds his messengers; the flaming fire his ministers; 
Who hath founded the earth upon her bases, that she should not be moved to all eternity. 
Thou hadst covered the deep as with a garment: above the mountains stood the waters. 
At thy rebuke they fled, at the voice of thy thunder they hastened away. 
They ascended mountains; they went down valleys, unto the place which thou hadst founded for them. 
Bounds hast thou set which they cannot pass over, that they return not again to cover the earth. 
Thou art he who sendeth springs into the valleys, between mountains they run along. 
They give drink to all the beasts of the field: the wild asses quench thereon their thirst. 
By them have the fowls of the heaven ever their habitation, from between the branches they send forth their voice. 
Who watereth the mountains from his upper-chambers: from the fruit of thy works is the earth satisfied. 
Thou art he who causeth grass to grow for the cattle, and herbs by the service of man, that he may bring forth bread out of the earth; 
And wine that maketh joyful the heart of man, and oil to brighten his face, and bread which strengtheneth the heart of man. 
Full of sap are the trees of the Lord, the cedars of Lebanon which he hath planted; 
Where the birds make their nests: the stork—fir-trees are her house. 
The high mountains are for the wild goats: the rocks are a shelter for the conies. 
He hath made the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going down. 
Thou causest darkness, and it becometh night, wherein creep forth all the beasts of the forest. 
The young lions roar after their prey, and ask from God their food. 
The sun ariseth, they withdraw to their lairs, and lie down in their dens. 
Man goeth then forth unto his work, and to his labor until the evening. 
How manifold are thy works, O Lord! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches. 
Here is this great and wide-extended sea; therein are moving things without number, living creatures both small and great. 
There the ships make their way: there also is the leviathan, whom thou hast made to sport therein. 
All of these wait upon thee, to give them their food in its due season. 
What thou givest them they gather: thou openest thy hand, they are satisfied with good. 
Thou hidest thy face, they suddenly vanish: thou takest away their spirit, they perish, and to their dust they return. 
Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created; and thou renewest the face of the earth. 
The glory of the Lord will endure for ever; the Lord will rejoice in his works: 
He who looketh down on the earth, and she trembleth; who toucheth the mountains, and they smoke. 
I will sing unto the Lord while I live: I will sing praises to my God while I exist. 
May my speech be agreeable to him: I will indeed rejoice in the Lord. 
May the sinners cease from off the earth, and the wicked be no more. Bless, O my soul, the Lord. Hallelujah. 
