Genesis.
Chapter 36.
These are the names of Esau's descendants. He had two names, Esau and Edom. 
Esau married Canaanite women. One wife was Adah, the daughter of Elon the Hittite. Another wife was Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah and the granddaughter of Zibeon the Hivite. 
Another wife was Basemath. She was Ishmael's daughter and the sister of Nebaioth. 
Adah and Esau had one son Eliphaz. Basemath and Esau had one son Reuel. 
Oholibamah and Esau had three sons called Jeush, Jalam and Korah. These sons of Esau's were born in Canaan. 
Then Esau went away taking his wives and sons and daughters and the people who were living with him. He also took his cattle and all his belongings that he had got in Canaan. He went away to live separately from Jacob, 
because the land where he and Jacob were living was not big enough and they had too many cattle. 
So Esau went to Edom and lived there in the hill country with his family. 
Esau was the ancestor of the Edomite people, and these are the names of his descendants. 
His five sons were called Eliphaz, the son of Adah, Reuel the son of Basemath, and Jeush, Jalam and Korah, the three sons of Oholibamah. Oholibamah's father was Anah and her grandfather was Zibeon. The six sons of Eliphaz were called Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, Kenaz and Amalek. Amalek's mother was a woman called Timna. The four sons of Reuel were called Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. 
Esau was the ancestor of many people. His first son Eliphaz was the father of the leaders called Teman, Omar, Zepho, Kenaz, 
Gatam and Amalek. Their grandmother was Esau's wife Adah. 
Esau's son Reuel was the father of the leaders called Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. Their grandmother was Esau's wife Basemath. 
Esau's sons Jeush, Jalam and Korah were also leaders and their mother was Esau's wife Oholibamah, the daughter of Anah. 
The sons and grandsons of Esau were all leaders of separate tribes. 
Seir was a Horite and his sons lived in the hill country of Edom. Their names were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, 
Dishon, Ezer and Dishan. These sons of Seir were the leaders of the Horite people who lived in Edom. 
Lotan's two sons were called Hori and Heman. And Lotan had a sister called Timna. 
Shobal's five sons were Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho and Onam. 
Zibeon's two sons were Aiah and Anah. Anah was the man who found the hot springs in the desert, when he was looking after his father's donkeys. 
Anah's son was called Dishon, and his daughter was called Oholibamah. 
Dishon's four sons were called Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran and Cheran. 
The three sons of Ezer were Bilhan, Zaavan and Akan. 
The two sons of Dishan were Uz and Aran. 
These men were the leaders of the Horite people, Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer and Dishan. They ruled separately over their people in the country of Edom. 
Before there were any kings in Israel, these kings ruled over the Edomite people in turn. 
The first was Bela, the son of Beor. His city was Dinhabah. 
After he died, Jobab, the son of Zerah, took his place. He came from Bozrah. 
After he died, Husham, a Temanite, took his place and ruled. 
After he died, Hadad, the son of Bedad, ruled. His city was called Avith. When Hadad was fighting the Midianite people in Moab, his soldiers drove away the Midianites. 
After Hadad died, Samlah from Masrekah ruled. 
After he died, Shaul ruled. He came from Rehoboth on the river. 
After he died, Baal-Hanan, the son of Achbor, ruled. 
After he died, Hadad from Pau ruled. His wife was called Mehetabel, and her father was Matred and her grandfather was Mezahab. 
Esau was the ancestor of the Edomite people, and these were their rulers, Timna, Alvah, Jetheth, 
Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon, 
Kenaz, Teman, Mizbar, 
Magdiel and Iram. The country where they lived was named after them. 
