GENESIS.
Chapter 14.
Forsooth it was done in that time, that Amraphel, king of Shinar, and Arioch, king of Ellasar, and Chedor-laomer, king of Elamites, and Tidal, king of folks, 
began battle against Bera, king of Sodom, and against Birsha, king of Gomorrah, and against Shinab, king of Admah, and against Shemeber, king of Zeboiim, and against the king of Bela, that Bela is Zoar. 
All these came together into the valley of wood, which is now the sea of salt. 
For in twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they departed from him. 
Therefore Chedorlaomer came in the fourteenth year, and the kings that were with him, and they smited Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and Zuzims with them, and Emims in Shaveh Kiriathaim, 
and Horites in the hills of Seir, till to the field places of Elparan, which is in wilderness. 
And they turned again, and came till to the well of Mishpat; that is Kadesh. And they smited all the country of men of Amalek, and Amorites, that dwelled in Hazazontamar. 
And the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, also and the king of Bela, which is Zoar, went out, and they dressed battle array against them in the valley of wood, 
that is, against Chedorlaomer, king of Elamites, and Tidal, king of folks or of Goiim, and Amraphel, king of Shinar, and Arioch, king of Ellasar; four kings against five. 
Forsooth the valley of wood had many pits of pitch, either strong glue; and so the king of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah turned their backs, and felled down there; and they that were left fled to the hills. 
Soothly they took away all the chattel or substance of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all things that pertained to meat, and went away; 
also and they took away Lot and his chattel or substance, the son of the brother of Abram, which Lot dwelled in Sodom. 
And, lo! one that escaped, told to Abram the Hebrew, that dwelled in the valley of Mamre of Amorites, the brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner; for these had made covenant of peace with Abram. 
And when Abram had heard this thing, that is, Lot, the son of his brother, was taken, he numbered his born servants made ready, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued them till to Dan. 
And when his fellows were separated, he felled on them in the night, and smote them, and pursued them till to Hobah, and Phenice, which is at the left side of Damascus. 
And he brought again all the chattel or substance, and Lot, the son of his brother, with his chattel or substance, also women, and the people. 
Soothly the king of Sodom went out into the meeting of him, after that he turned again from the slaying of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings that were with him, in the valley of Shaveh, which is the valley of the king. 
And soothly Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought forth bread and wine, for he was the priest of the highest God; 
and he blessed Abram, and said, Blessed be Abram of the high God, that made heaven and earth of nought, 
and blessed be the high God, by whom defending, thine enemies be betaken into thine hands. And Abram gave tithes of all things to him. 
Forsooth the king of Sodom said to Abram, Give thou the men to me; take thou other things to thee. 
And Abram answered to him, I raise up mine hand to the high Lord God, Lord of heaven and of earth, 
that from the thread of the woof till to the lanyard of the hose, I shall not take anything of all things that be thine, lest thou say, I have made Abram rich; 
except these things which the young men ate, and the parts of men that came with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; these men shall take their parts. 
