TOBIT.
Chapter 9.
Then Tobias called to him the angel, whom soothly he guessed a man. And Tobias said to him, Azarias, brother, I ask of thee, that thou hearken my words. 
If I shall betake or Though I betake myself a servant to thee, yet I shall not by my knowing, be even worthy to thy purveyance, or wisdom. 
Nevertheless I beseech thee, that thou take to thee beasts, either servants, and go thou to Gabael into Rages, a city of Media, and yield or betake thou to him his obligation or his writ; and take or receive of him the money that he oweth to my father, and pray him to come to my weddings or to my bridals. 
For thou knowest, that my father numbereth the days of our journey, and if I shall tarry one day more, his soul or his life shall be made sorry. 
And certainly thou seest, how Raguel hath charged me to dwell here with him, whose charging I may not despise. 
Then Raphael took four of the servants of Raguel, and two camels, and went into Rages, a city of Media, and he found Gabael, and gave to him his obligation or writ, and received of him all the money; 
and he showed to him of Tobias, the son of Tobit, and all things that were done. And he made Gabael to come with him to the weddings or to the bridals. 
And when Gabael entered into the house of Raguel, he found Tobias sitting at the meat; and he skipped up/and Tobias rose up anon, and they kissed themselves together. 
And Gabael wept, and blessed God, and said, The Lord God of Israel bless thee, for thou art the son of a full good man, and just or rightwise, and dreading God, and doing alms-deeds; 
and the blessing of God be brought or come upon thy wife, and upon your fathers and mothers, 
and see ye your sons, and the sons of your sons, till into or unto the third and the fourth generation; and your seed be blessed of God of Israel, that reigneth into worlds of worlds or without end. 
And when all men had said Amen, they went to the feast or to meat; and they used the feast of those weddings or bridals with the dread of the Lord. 
