GENESIS.
Chapter 5.
This is the book of the generations of Adam, in the day wherein God made man of nought. God made man to the image and likeness of God; 
God formed them male and female, and blessed them, and called the name of them Adam, in the day in which they were formed. 
Forsooth Adam lived an hundred years and thirty, and begat a son to his image and likeness, and called his name Seth. 
And the days of Adam after that he begat Seth were made eight hundred years, and he begat sons and daughters. 
And all the time in which Adam lived was made nine hundred years and thirty, and he was dead. 
And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos. 
And Seth lived after that he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Seth were made nine hundred and twelve years, and he was dead. 
Forsooth Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan; 
after whose birth Enos lived eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Enos were made nine hundred and five years, and he was dead. 
Also Cainan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalaleel. 
And Cainan lived after that he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Cainan were made nine hundred and ten years, and he was dead. 
Forsooth Mahalaleel lived sixty years and five, and begat Jared. 
And Mahalaleel lived after that he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Mahalaleel were made eight hundred and ninety and five years, and he was dead. 
And Jared lived an hundred and two and sixty years, and begat Enoch. 
And Jared lived after that he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Jared were made nine hundred and two and sixty years, and he was dead. 
Forsooth Enoch lived five and sixty years, and begat Methuselah. 
And Enoch went with God; and Enoch lived after that he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred and five and sixty years. 
And Enoch went with God, and appeared not afterward, for God took him away. 
Also Methuselah lived an hundred and seven and eighty years, and begat Lamech. 
And Methuselah lived after that he begat Lamech seven hundred and two and eighty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Methuselah were made nine hundred and nine and sixty years, and he was dead. 
Forsooth Lamech lived an hundred and two and eighty years, and begat a son; 
and he called his name Noah, and said, This man shall comfort us of the works and travails of our hands, in the land which the Lord cursed. 
And Lamech lived after that he begat Noah five hundred and ninety and five years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Lamech were made seven hundred and seventy and seven years, and he was dead. 
Forsooth Noah, when he was of five hundred years, begat Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
