EZEKIEL.
Chapter 29.
In the tenth year, in the twelfth month, in the first day of the month, the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, set thy face against Pharaoh, king of Egypt; and thou shalt prophesy of him, and of all Egypt. 
Speak thou, and thou shalt say, The Lord God saith these things, Lo! I to thee, thou Pharaoh, king of Egypt, thou great dragon, that liest in the midst of thy floods, and sayest, The flood is mine, and I made it for myself. 
And I shall set or put a bridle in thy cheeks, and I shall glue the fishes of thy floods to thy scales; and I shall draw thee out of the midst of thy floods, and all thy fishes shall cleave to thy scales. 
And I shall cast thee forth into desert, and all the fishes of thy flood; on the face of earth thou shalt fall down, thou shalt not be gathered up, neither shalt be gathered together to thy people; to the beasts of earth, and to the volatiles of the air, I gave thee to be devoured. 
And all the dwellers of Egypt shall know, that I am the Lord. For that that thou were a staff of a reed to the house of Israel, 
when they took hold of thee with their hands, and thou were broken, and rentest each shoulder of them, and when they rested on thee, thou were made less, and thou hast loosed, either discomforted, all the reins of them; 
therefore the Lord God saith these things, Lo! I shall bring a sword on thee, and I shall slay of thee man and beast; 
and the land of Egypt shall be into desert, and into wilderness, and they shall know, that I am the Lord. For that that thou saidest, The flood is mine, and I made it, 
therefore lo! I to thee, and to thy floods. And I shall give into wilder-ness the land of Egypt, destroyed by sword, from the tower of Syene till to the terms of Ethiopia. 
The foot of man shall not pass by it, neither the foot of beast shall go in it, and it shall not be inhabited in forty years. 
And I shall give the land of Egypt forsaken, in the midst of lands forsaken, and the cities thereof in the midst of a city destroyed, and those shall be desolate by forty years. And I shall scatter Egyptians into nations, and I shall winnow them into lands. 
For the Lord God saith these things, After the end of forty years I shall gather together Egypt from peoples, among which they were scattered; 
and I shall bring again the captivity of Egypt. And I shall set them again in the land of Pathros, in the land of their birth; and they shall be there into a meek realm, 
and among other realms it shall be most low, and it shall no more be raised over nations. And I shall make them less, that they reign not on heathen men; 
and they shall no more be to the house of Israel in trust, teaching them wickedness, that they flee, and follow them; and they shall know, that I am the Lord God. 
And it was done in the seven and twentieth year, in the first month, in the first day of the month, the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, made his host to serve by great service against Tyre; each head was made bald, and each shoulder was made bare of hair, and meed was not yielded of Tyre to him, neither to his host, for the service by which he served to me against it. 
Therefore the Lord God saith these things, Lo! I shall give Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, in the land of Egypt, and he shall take the multitude thereof; and he shall take in prey the clothes thereof, and he shall ravish the spoils thereof, and meed shall be to his host, 
and to the work for which he served to me against it; and I gave the land of Egypt to him, for that that he travailed to me, saith the Lord God. 
In that day, an horn of the house of Israel shall come forth, and I shall give to thee an open mouth in the midst of them; and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
