JOB.
Chapter 42.
Forsooth Job answered to the Lord, and said, 
I know, that thou mayest do all things, and that no thought or nothing is hid from thee. 
Who is this, that covereth counsel without knowing? Therefore I have spoken unwisely, and those things that pass over-measure my knowing. 
Hear thou, and I shall speak; I shall ask thee, and answer thou to me. 
By hearing of ear I have heard thee, but now mine eye seeth thee. 
Therefore I reprove myself, and do penance in dead spark and ashes. 
And after that the Lord had spoken these words to Job, he said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My strong vengeance is wroth against thee, and against thy two friends; for ye have not spoken before me rightful or right things, as my servant Job. 
Therefore take ye to you seven bulls, and seven rams; and go ye to my servant Job, and offer ye burnt sacrifice for you. Forsooth Job, my servant, shall pray for you; I shall receive his face, that folly be not areckoned to you; certainly ye have not spoken before me rightful or right thing, as hath my servant Job. 
Therefore Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite, went, and did, as the Lord had spoken to them; and the Lord received the face of Job. 
Also the Lord was converted to the penance of Job, when he prayed for his friends. And the Lord added all things double, whichever were of Job. 
And all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all that knew him before, came to him; and they ate bread with him in his house, and they moved their head upon him; and they comforted him on all the evil, that the Lord had brought in upon him; and they gave to him each man a sheep, and a golden earring. 
Forsooth the Lord blessed the last things of Job, more than the beginning of him; and fourteen thousand of sheep were made to him, and six thousand of camels, and a thousand yokes of oxen, and a thousand female asses. 
And he had seven sons, and three daughters; 
and he called the name of the one daughter Jemima, and the name of the second daughter Kezia, and the name of the third daughter he called Kerenhappuch, that is, a horn of women’s ointment. 
And there were not found so fair women in all the land, as were the daughters of Job; and their father gave heritage to them among their brethren. 
Forsooth Job lived after these beatings, or scourgings, an hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and the sons of his sons, till to the fourth generation; 
and he was dead eld or he died old, and full of days, that is, he had length and prosperity of life. 
