EZEKIEL.
Chapter 36.
Forsooth thou, son of man, prophesy on the hills or mountains of Israel; and thou shalt say, Hills of Israel, hear ye the word of the Lord. 
The Lord God saith these things, For that that the enemy said of you, Well! everlasting highnesses be given to us into heritage; 
therefore prophesy thou, and say, The Lord God saith these things, For that that ye be made desolate, and defouled by compass, and be made into heritage to other folks, and ye ascended or went up on the lip of tongue, and on the shame of people; 
therefore, hills of Israel, hear ye the word of the Lord God. The Lord God saith these things to the mountains, and little hills, to strands or streams, and to valleys, and to pieces of walls left, and to cities forsaken, that be made bare of peoples, and be scorned of other folks by compass. 
therefore the Lord God saith these things, For in the fire of my fervor I spake of other folks, and of all Idumea, that gave my land into heritage to themselves with joy and all the heart, and of intent, and casted out it, to destroy it; 
therefore prophesy thou on the earth of Israel, and thou shalt say to mountains, and little hills, to the highness of hills, and to valleys, The Lord God saith these things, For that that ye be desolate, lo! I spake in my fervor and in my strong vengeance. For that that ye suffered shame of heathen men; 
therefore the Lord God saith these things, Lo! I raised mine hand against heathen men, that be in your compass, that they bear their shame. 
Forsooth, ye hills of Israel, bring forth your branches, and bring ye fruit to my people Israel; for it is nigh that it come. 
For lo! I to you, and I shall turn to you, and ye shall be eared, and shall take seed. 
And in you I shall multiply men, and all the house of Israel; and cities shall be inhabited, and ruinous things shall be repaired. 
And I shall fill you with men and beasts, and they shall be multiplied, and shall increase; and I shall make you to dwell as at the beginning, and I shall reward with more goods than ye had at the beginning; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord. 
And I shall bring men on you, my people Israel, and by heritage they shall wield thee, and thou shalt be to them into heritage; and thou shalt no more lay to, that thou be without them. 
The Lord God saith these things, For that that they say of you, Thou art a devouress of men, and stranglest thy folk; 
therefore thou shalt no more eat men, and thou shalt no more slay thy folk, saith the Lord God. 
And I shall no more make heard in thee the shame of heathen men, and thou shalt no more bear the shame of peoples, and thou shalt no more lose thy folk, saith the Lord God. 
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, the house of Israel dwelled in their land, and they defouled it in their ways, and in their studies; by the uncleanness of a woman in rotten blood the way of them is made before me. 
And I shedded out mine indignation on them, for the blood which they shedded on the land, and in their idols they defouled it. 
And I scattered them among heathen men, and they were winnowed into lands; I deemed them by the ways and findings of them. 
And they entered to heathen men, to which they entered, and defouled mine holy name, when it was said to them, This is the people of the Lord, and they went out of the land of him. 
And I spared them for the sake of mine holy name, which the house of Israel had defouled among heathen men, to which they entered. 
Therefore thou shalt say to the house of Israel, The Lord God saith these things, O! ye house of Israel, not for you I shall do, but for mine holy name, which ye defouled among heathen men, to which ye entered. 
And I shall hallow my great name, which is defouled among heathen men, which ye defouled in the midst of them; that heathen men know, that I am the Lord, saith the Lord of hosts, when I shall be hallowed in you before them. 
For I shall take away you from heathen men, and I shall gather you from all lands, and I shall bring you into your land. 
And I shall pour out clean water up on you, and ye shall be cleansed from all your filths; and I shall cleanse you from all your idols. 
And I shall give to you a new heart, and I shall set a new spirit in the midst of you; and I shall do away an heart of stone from your flesh, and I shall give to you an heart of flesh, 
and I shall set my spirit in the midst of you. And I shall make that ye go in my commandments, and that ye keep and work my dooms. 
And ye shall dwell in the land, which I gave to your fathers; and ye shall be into a people to me, and I shall be into God to you. 
And I shall save you from all your filths; and I shall call wheat, and I shall multiply it, and I shall not put hunger on you. 
And I shall multiply the fruit of tree, and the seeds of the field, that ye bear no more the shame of hunger among heathen men. 
And ye shall have mind on your worst ways, and on studies not good; and your wickednesses, and your great trespasses, shall displease you. 
Not for you I shall do, saith the Lord God, be it known to you; O! the house of Israel, be ye shamed, and be ashamed on your ways. 
The Lord God saith these things, In the day in which I shall cleanse you from all your wickednesses, and I shall make cities to be inhabited, and I shall repair ruinous things, 
and the desert land shall be tilled, that was sometime desolate, before the eyes of each way-goer, 
they shall say, That land untilled is made as a garden of liking, and cities that forsaken and destitute and undermined sat, now be made strong; 
and heathen men, which ever be left in your compass, shall know, that I the Lord have builded the destroyed things, and I have planted untilled things; I the Lord spake, and I did. 
The Lord God saith these things, Yet in this thing the house of Israel shall find me, that I do to them; I shall multiply them as the flock of men, 
as an holy flock, as the flock of Jerusalem in the solemnities thereof, so the cities that be forsaken shall be full of the flocks of men; and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
