MATTHEW.
Chapter 15.
Then the scribes and the Pharisees came to him from Jerusalem, and said, 
Why break thy disciples the traditions of elder men? or Why thy disciples break the traditions, either the teachings, of elder men? for they wash not their hands, when they eat bread. 
He answered, and said to them, Why break ye the commandment of God for your traditions? 
For God said, Honour thy father and thy mother, and he that curseth father or mother, die he by death. 
But ye say, Whoever saith to father or mother, Whatever gift is of me, it shall profit to thee; 
and he hath not worshipped or not honoured his father or his mother; and ye have made the commandment of God void for your traditions. 
Hypocrites, Isaiah the prophet, prophesied well of you, and said, 
This people honoureth me with lips, but their heart is far from me; 
and they worship me without cause, teaching the doctrines and the commandments of men. 
And when the people were called together to him, he said to them, Hear ye, and understand ye. 
That thing that entereth into the mouth, defouleth not a man; but that thing that cometh out of the mouth, defouleth a man. 
Then his disciples came, and said to him, Thou knowest or Knowest thou, that, if this word be heard, the Pharisees be offended? 
And he answered, and said, Every planting, that my Father of heaven hath not planted, shall be drawn up by the root. 
Suffer ye them; they be blind, and leaders of blind men. And if a blind man lead a blind man, both fall into the ditch. 
Peter answered, and said to him, Expound to us this parable. 
And he said, Yet ye be without understanding? 
Understand ye not, that all thing that entereth into the mouth, goeth into the womb, and is sent out into the going away? 
But those things that come forth from the mouth, go out from the heart, and those things defoul the man. 
For of the heart go out evil thoughts or For out of the heart cometh evil thoughts, manslayings, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnessings, blasphemies. 
These things it be that defoul a man; but to eat with hands not washed, defouleth not a man. 
And Jesus went out from thence, and went into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon. 
And lo! a woman of Canaan went out of those coasts, and cried, and said to him, Lord, the son of David, have mercy on me; my daughter is evil travailed of a fiend or a devil. 
And he answered not to her a word. And his disciples came, and prayed him, and said, Leave thou her, for she crieth after us. 
He answered, and said, I am not sent, but to the sheep of the house of Israel that have perished. 
And she came, and worshipped him, and said, Lord, help me. 
Which answered, and said, It is not good to take the bread of children, and cast it to hounds. 
And she said, Yes, Lord; for the whelps eat of the crumbs, that fall down from the board of their lords. 
Then Jesus answered, and said to her, A! woman, thy faith is great; be it done to thee, as thou wilt. And her daughter was healed from that hour. 
And when Jesus had passed from thence, he came beside the sea of Galilee. And he went up into an hill, and sat there. 
And much people came to him, and had with them dumb men and crooked men, feeble and blind, and many others; and they casted down them or cast them down at his feet. And he healed them, 
so that the people wondered, seeing dumb men speaking, and crooked men going, blind men seeing; and they magnified God of Israel. 
And Jesus, when his disciples were called together, said to them, I have ruth of the people, for they have abided now three days with me, and have nothing to eat; and I will not leave them fasting, lest they fail in the way. 
And the disciples say to him, Whereof then so many loaves among us in desert, to fulfill so great a people? And the disciples say to him, Therefore whereof so many loaves to us in desert, that we fill so great a company of people? 
And Jesus said to them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few small fishes or a few little fishes. 
And he commanded to the people, to sit to the meat on the earth. 
And he took the seven loaves and five fishes, and did thankings, and brake them, and gave to his disciples; and the disciples gave to the people. 
And all ate, and were fulfilled or were filled, and they took that that was left of the remnants, seven baskets full. 
And they that ate were four thousand of men, without little children and women. 
And when he had left the people, he went up into a boat, and came into the coasts of Magdala. 
