COLOSSIANS.
Chapter 4.
Lords, give ye to servants that that is just and even, witting that also ye have a Lord in heaven. 
Be ye busy in prayer, and wake in it, in doing of thankings; 
and pray each for other, and for us, that God open to us the door of word, to speak the mystery of Christ; for which also I am bound, 
that I show it, so as it behooveth me to speak. 
Walk ye in wisdom to them that be withoutforth, again-buying time. 
Your word be savoured with salt evermore in grace; that ye know, how it behooveth you to answer to each man. 
Tychicus, most dear brother, and faithful minister, and my fellow or my even-servant in the Lord, shall make all things known to you, that be about me. 
Whom I sent to you to this same thing, that he know what things be about you, and comfort your hearts, 
with Onesimus, most dear and faithful brother, which is of you; which shall make all things that be done here, known to you. 
Aristarchus, prisoner with me or mine even-captive, greeteth you well, and Marcus, the cousin of Barnabas, of whom ye have taken commandments; if he come to you, receive ye him; 
and Jesus, that is said Justus; which be of circumcision; they alone be mine helpers in the kingdom of God, that were to me in solace. 
Epaphras, that is of you, the servant of Jesus Christ, greeteth you well; ever busy for you in prayers, that ye stand perfect and full in all the will of God. 
And I bear witnessing to him, that he hath much travail for you, and for them that be at Laodicea, and that be at Hierapolis. 
Luke, the leech most dear, and Demas, greet you well. 
Greet ye well the brethren that be at Laodicea, and the woman Nympha, and the church that is in her house. 
And when this epistle is read among you, do ye, that it be read in the church of Laodiceans; and read ye that epistle that is of Laodiceans. 
And say ye to Archippus, See the ministry, that thou hast taken in the Lord, that thou ful fill it. 
My salutation, by the hand of Paul. Be ye mindful of my bonds. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. 
