PSALMS.
Chapter 74.
The learning of Asaph. God, why hast thou put us away into the end; thy strong vengeance is wroth on the sheep of thy pasture? 
Be thou mindful of thy gathering together; which thou haddest in possession from the beginning. Thou again-boughtest the rod of thine heritage; the hill of Zion, in which thou dwelledest therein. 
Raise thine hands into the prides of them; how great things the enemy did wickedly in the holy place. 
And they that hated thee; had glory in the midst of thy solemnity. They setted their signs, either banners, to be signs on the highest place, as in the outgoing or going out; and they knew not. 
As in a wood of trees, they hewed down with axes the gates thereof into itself; 
they casted down it with an ax, and a broad falling ax. 
They burnt with fire thy saintuary; they defouled the tabernacle of thy name in earth. 
The kindred of them said together in their heart; Make we all the feast days of God to cease in the earth. 
We have not seen our signs, now there is no prophet; and he shall no more know us. 
God, how long shall the enemy say despite? the adversary stirreth to ire thy name into the end. 
Why turnest thou away thine hand, to not draw out thy right hand from the midst of thy bosom, till into the end? 
Forsooth God our king before worlds, wrought health in the midst of the earth. 
Thou madest firm the sea by thy virtue; thou hast troubled the heads of the dragons in waters. 
Thou hast broken the heads of the dragon; thou hast given him to be meat to the peoples of Ethiopians. 
Thou hast broken wells, and strands or streams; thou madest dry the floods of Eitan. 
The day is thine, and the night is thine; thou madest the morrowtide and the sun. 
Thou madest all the ends of the earth; summer, and ver time, either springing time, thou formedest those or them. 
Be thou mindful of this thing, the enemy hath said shame to the Lord; and the unwise people hath excited to ire thy name. 
Betake thou not to beasts men acknowledging to thee; and forget thou not into the end the souls of thy poor men. 
Behold into thy testament; for they that be made dark of earth, be full-filled with the houses of wickednesses. 
A meek man be not turned away made ashamed; a poor man and needy shall praise thy name. 
God, rise up, deem thou thy cause; be thou mindful of thy shames, either upbraidings, of those that be all day of the unwise man. 
Forget thou not the voices of thine enemies; the pride of them that hate thee ascendeth or goeth up ever-more. 
