DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 33.
This is the blessing, with which Moses, the man of God, blessed the sons of Israel before his death; 
and said, The Lord came from Sinai, and he rose to us from Seir; he appeared from the hill of Paran, and thousands of saints with him; a law of fire in his right hand. 
He loved peoples; all saints be in his hand, and they that nigh to his feet shall take of his doctrine. 
Moses commanded the law to us, the heritage of the multitude of Jacob. 
And the king shall be at the most rightful, when princes of the people be gathered together with the lineages of Israel. 
Reuben live, and die not, and be he little in number. 
This is the blessing of Judah; Lord, hear thou the voice of Judah, and bring in him to his people; his hands shall fight for him, and the helper of him, shall be against his adversaries. 
Also he said to Levi, Thy perfection and thy teaching is of an holy man, whom thou hast proved in temptation, and hast deemed at the waters of Against-saying; 
which Levi said to his father and to his mother, I know not you, and to his brethren, I know not them; and knew not his sons. These kept thy speech, and these kept thy covenant; 
O! Jacob, they kept thy dooms, and thy law, O! Israel; they shall put incense in thy strong vengeance, and burnt sacrifice on thine altar. 
Lord, bless thou the strength of him, and receive thou the works of his hands; smite thou the backs of his enemies, and they that hate him, rise they not. 
And he said to Benjamin, The most loved of the Lord shall dwell trustily in him; he shall dwell all day as in a chamber, and he shall rest betwixt the shoulders of the Lord. 
Also he said to Joseph, His land is of the Lord’s blessing; of the apples of heaven, and of the dew, and of water lying beneath; 
of the apples of the fruits of the sun, and moon; 
and of the top of eld or old mountains, and of the apples of ever-lasting little hills; 
and of the fruits of the land, and of the fullness thereof. The blessing of him that appeared in the bush come upon the head of Joseph, and upon the foretop, that is, the crown of the head, of the Nazarite, or holy one, among his brethren. 
As the first engendered of a bull is the fairness of him; the horns of an unicorn be the horns of him; in those or them he shall winnow folks, till to the terms of the earth. These be the multitudes of Ephraim, and these be the thousands of Manasseh. 
And he said to Zebulun, Zebulun, be thou glad in thy going out, and Issachar, in thy tabernacles. 
They shall call peoples to the hill, and there they shall offer sacrifices of rightfulness or rightwiseness; which shall suck the flowing of the sea as milk, and hid treasures of gravel. 
And he said to Gad, Gad is blessed in broadness; he rested as a lion, and he took from his adversary the arm and the noll or head. 
And he saw his princehood, that he was kept a teacher in his part; the which was with princes of the people, and he did the rightfulnesses or rightwisenesses of the Lord, and his doom with Israel. 
Also he said to Dan, Dan, a whelp of a lion, shall flow largely from Bashan. 
And he said to Naphtali, Naphtali shall use abundance, and he shall be full with blessings of the Lord; and he shall wield the sea and the south. 
Also he said to Asher, Asher, be blessed in sons, and please he his brethren; dip he his foot in oil. 
Iron and brass the shoes of him; as the day of thy youth, so and thine eld age. 
None other god is as the God of the most rightful or the most right God; the rider of heaven is thine helper; clouds run about by the glory of him. 
His dwelling place is above, and his arms everlasting be beneath; he shall cast out from thy face the enemy, and he shall say to them, Be thou all-broken. 
Israel shall dwell trustily and alone; the eye of Jacob is in the land of wheat, and of wine; and heavens shall be dark with dew. 
Blessed art thou, Israel; thou people that art saved in the Lord, who is like thee? The shield of thine help and the sword of thy glory is thy God; thine enemies shall deny thee, and thou shalt tread their necks. 
