1ST KINGS.
Chapter 7.
Forsooth Solomon builded his own house in thirteen years, and brought it till to perfection, or perfect end. 
He builded an house of the forest, or out of the wood, of Lebanon, of an hundred cubits of length, and of fifty cubits of breadth, and of thirty cubits of height; and he builded four alleys betwixt the pillars of cedars; for he had hewn down the trees of cedars into pillars. 
And he clothed all the chambers with walls of cedar; the which chamber was sustained, or borne up, with five and forty pillars. And one order had fifteen pillars, set against themselves together, 
and beholding themselves each even against other by even space betwixt the pillars; 
and on the pillars were four-square posts, even in all things. 
And he made a porch of pillars of fifty cubits of length, and of thirty cubits of breadth; and he made an-other porch in the face of the greater porch; and he made pillars, and the pommels on the pillars. 
Also he made a porch of the king’s seat, in which the seat of doom was; and he covered it with wood of cedar, from the pavement unto the highness. 
And a little house, in which he sat to deem, was in the middle porch, by like work. Also Solomon made an house to the daughter of Pharaoh, whom he had wedded, by such work, by what manner work he made and this porch. 
He made all things of precious stones, that were sawed at a rule and measure, both within and without-forth, from the foundament unto the highness of the walls, and within and till to the great street, either courtyard. 
And the foundaments were of precious stones, great stones of ten, either of eight cubits; 
and precious stones hewn of even measure were above; in like manner and of cedar. 
And the greater court, either void space, was round, of three orders of hewn stones, and of one order of hewn cedar beams; also and in the inner large street of the house of the Lord, and in the porch of the house of the Lord. 
Also king Solomon sent, and brought from Tyre, Hiram, 
the son of a woman widow, of the lineage of Naphtali, of the father of a man of Tyre, a craftsman of brass, and full of wisdom, and understanding, and doctrine, or teaching, to make all work of brass. And when he had come to king Solomon, he made all his work. 
And he made two pillars of brass, one pillar of eighteen cubits of height; and a line of twelve cubits compassed ever either pillar. 
Also he made two pommels or capitals, molten of brass, which were set or put on the heads of the pillars; one pommel of five cubits of height, and the tother pommel of five cubits of height; 
and by the manner of a net, and of chains knit together to themselves, by wonderful work. Ever either pommel of the pillars was molten; seven works like nets of orders were in one pommel, and seven works like nets in the tother pommel. 
And he made perfectly the pillars, and two orders about all the works like nets, that those or they should cover the pommels, which were upon the highness of the pomegranates; in the same manner he did also to the second pommel. 
And the pommels, that were upon the heads of the pillars in the porch, were made as by work of lily, of four cubits; 
and again other pommels in the highness of the pillars above, by the measure of the pillar, set against the works like nets; and two hundred orders of pomegranates were in the compass of the second pommel. 
And he set the two pillars in the porch of the temple; and when he had set the right half pillar, he called it by name Jachin, that is, steadfast; in like manner he raised up the second pillar, and he called the name thereof Boaz, that is, strength. 
And he set upon the heads of the pillars a work by the manner of a lily; and the work of the pillars was made perfect. 
Also he made a molten sea, that is, a washing vessel for priests, round in compass, of ten cubits from brink to brink; the highness thereof was of five cubits; and a cord of thirty cubits went about it by compass. 
And the engraving under the brink compassed it, and it compassed or came about the sea by ten cubits; twain or two orders of engravings containing some stories were molten, 
and stood upon twelve oxen; of which oxen three beheld to the north, and three to the west, and three to the south, and three to the east; and the sea was above upon those oxen, of which all the hinder things were hid within. 
And the thickness of the sea was of four fingers, or a palm, and the brink thereof was as the brink of a cup, and as the leaf of a lily crooked again; the sea contained two thousand baths, that is, three thousand metretes. 
And he made ten brazen found-aments or bases, each foundament of four cubits of length, and of four cubits of breadth, and of three cubits of highness. 
And that work of the foundaments was raised betwixt; and engravings were between the jointures. 
And between the little crowns and the circles were lions, oxen, and cherubims or cherubim; and in the jointures in like manner above; and under the lions and the oxen were as reins of bridles of brass hanging down. 
And by each foundament were four wheels, and brazen axletrees; and by four parts were as little shoulder-ings under the washing vessel, the shoulderings, that is, short pillars to sustain the washing vessel, molten, and beholding against themselves together. 
And the mouth of the washing vessel within was in the highness of the head, and that, that appeared withoutforth, was of one cubit, and it was all-round, and had altogether one cubit and an half; and diverse engravings were in the corners of the pillars, and the middle pillar between was square, not round. 
And the four wheels, which were by the four corners of the found-ament, cleaved together to themselves under the foundament; one wheel had one cubit and an half of height. 
And the wheels were such, which manner wheels be wont to be made in a chariot; and the axletrees, and the nave-stocks, and the spokes, and the felloes or the dowels of those wheels, all things were molten. 
For also the four little shoulderings, by all the corners of one foundament, were joined together, and were molten of that foundament, that is, were molten together with that foundament, and made one body. 
And in the highness of the founda-ment was a roundness, of one cubit and an half, so made craftily, that the washing vessel might be set above, having his portrayings, and diverse engravings of itself. 
Also he engraved in those walls, that were of brass, and in the corners, cherubims or cherubim, and lions, and palms, as by the likeness of a man standing, that those or they seemed not engraved, but put to by compass. 
By this manner he made ten foundaments, by one melting out, and one measure, and like engraving. 
Also he made ten washing vessels of brass; one washing vessel took, or held, forty baths, and it was of four cubits; and he put each washing vessel by itself by each foundament by itself, that is, ten. 
And he made ten foundaments, five at the right half of the temple, and five at the left half; and he set the sea at the right half of the temple, against the east, at the south. 
Also Hiram made cauldrons, and pans, and wine vessels; and he made perfectly all the work of king Solomon in the temple of the Lord. 
He made two pillars, and two cords of the pommels, that is, circles compassing the pommels, at the manner of cords, upon the pommels of the pillars, and two works like nets, that those or they should cover the two cords, that were upon the heads of the pillars. 
And he made pomegranates four hundred in two works like nets; and two orders of pomegranates in each work like a net, to cover the cords of the pommels, that were on the heads of the pillars. 
And he madethe ten founda-ments, and the ten washing vessels on the foundaments; 
and one sea, and twelve oxen under the sea; 
and cauldrons, and pans, and wine vessels. All the vessels, which Hiram made to king Solomon in the house of the Lord, were of latten. 
And the king melted out those vessels in the field country of Jordan, in the clay land, betwixt Succoth and Zarthan. 
And Solomon setted or put all the vessels in their places; but for the great multitude, no weight was of the brass. 
And Solomon made all the vessels in the house of the Lord; soothly he made the golden altar, that is, the altar of incense, that was within the temple, and the golden board, upon which the loaves of setting forth were set; 
and he made of most pure gold golden candlesticks, five at the right half, and five at the left half, against God’s answering place; and he made as the flowers of a lily, and golden lanterns above, and golden tongs; 
and pots, and hooks, and vials, and mortars, and censers of purest gold; and the hinges of the doors of the inner house of the holy of holy things, and of the doors of the house of the temple, were of gold. 
And Solomon performed all the work, that he made in the house of the Lord; and he brought in the things, which David, his father, had hallowed; silver, and gold, and vessels; and he kept those in the treasures of the house of the Lord. 
