JOB.
Chapter 34.
And Elihu pronounced, and spake also these things, 
Wise men, hear ye my words, and learned men, hearken ye to me; 
for the ear proveth words, and the throat deemeth meat by taste. 
Choose we doom to us; and see we among us, what is the better. 
For Job said, I am just or rightwise, and God hath turned my justness or doom upside-down. 
For why leasing is in deeming me, and mine arrow is violent with-out any sin. 
Who is a man, as Job is, that drinketh scorning as water? 
that goeth with men working wick-edness, and goeth with unfaithful men? 
For he said, A man shall not please God, yea, though he run with God. 
Therefore ye wise men, that is, ye with understanding, hear ye me; un-piety, either cruelty, be far from God, and wickedness from Almighty God. 
For he shall yield after the work of a man to him; and by the ways of each man he shall restore to him. 
For verily God shall not condemn without cause; neither Almighty God shall destroy doom. 
What other man hath he ordained upon earth? either whom hath he set or put upon the world, that he hath made? 
If God dresseth his heart to him, he shall draw to himself his spirit and blast or breath. 
Each flesh shall fail together in dying; and a man shall turn again into ashes. 
Therefore if thou hast understand-ing, hear thou that that is said, and hearken to the voice of my speech. 
Whether he that loveth not doom may be made whole? and how then condemnest thou so much him, that is just or rightwise? 
He it is that saith to a king, Thou art apostate, either breaker of religion, when he keepeth not rightfulness and the common good; which calleth the dukes unpious, either unfaithful. 
He accepteth not the persons of princes, neither he knoweth a tyrant to spare him, when he striveth against a poor man; for all men be the work of his hands. 
They shall die suddenly, and at midnight peoples shall be troubled; and shall pass away, and shall take away a violent man without hand. 
For the eyes of God be on the ways of men, and he beholdeth all the goings of them. 
No darknesses be, neither no shadow of death is, that they, that work wickedness, be hid there; 
for it is no more in the power of man, that he come to God into doom. 
God shall all-break many men and unnumberable; and shall make other men to stand for them. 
For he knoweth the works of them; and therefore he shall bring in night upon them, and they shall be all-broken. 
He smote them, as unpious men, in the place of seeing men. 
Which went away from him by casting afore or by forecasting, and would not understand all his ways. 
That they should make the cry of a needy man to come to him, and that he should hear the voice of poor men. 
For when he granteth peace, who is it that condemneth him? And since he hideth his cheer, who is that seeth him? And on folks, and on all men, he hath power to do such things. 
Which maketh a man, hypocrite, to reign, for the sins of the people. 
Therefore for I have spoken to God, I shall not forbid thee to speak. 
If I have erred, teach thou me; if I have spoken wickedness, I shall no more add to. 
Whether God asketh that wickedness of thee, for it displeased thee? For thou hast begun to speak, and not I; that if thou knowest anything better, speak thou that. 
Men of understanding, speak to me; and a wise man, hear me. 
Forsooth Job hath spoken follily, and his words sound not like teaching. 
My father God, be Job proved unto the end; cease thou not from the man of wickedness, 
that addeth blasphemy over his sins. Be he constrained among us in the meantime; and then by his words stir he God to the doom. 
