AMOS.
Chapter 9.
I saw the Lord standing on the altar, and he said, Smite thou the hinges, and the over-thresholds, either lintels, be moved altogether; for avarice is in the head of all, and I shall slay by sword the last of them; there shall no flight be to them, and he that shall flee of them, shall not be saved. 
If they shall go down till to hell, from thence mine hand shall lead out them; and if they shall ascend till to or go up unto heaven, from thence I shall draw them down. 
And if they shall be hid in the top of Carmel, from thence I seeking shall do them away; and if they shall hide themselves from mine eyes in the deepness of the sea, there I shall command a serpent, and it shall bite them, and devour them. 
And if they shall go away into captivity before their enemies, there I shall command to sword, and it shall slay them. And I shall put mine eyes on them into evil, and not into good. 
And the Lord God of hosts shall do these things, that toucheth earth, and it shall fail, and all men dwelling therein shall mourn; and it shall go up as each strand, and it shall float away as the flood of Egypt. 
He that buildeth his going up in heaven, shall do these things, and founded his burden on earth; which calleth waters of the sea, and poureth out them on the face of earth; the Lord is name of him. 
Whether not as the sons of Ethiopians ye be to me, the sons of Israel? saith the Lord God. Whether I made not Israel for to go up from the land of Egypt, and Palestines from Cappadocia, and Syrians from Kir? 
Lo! the eyes of the Lord God be on the realm sinning, and I shall all-break it from the face of the earth; nevertheless I all-breaking shall not all-break the house of Jacob, saith the Lord. 
For lo! I shall command, and shall shake together the house of Israel in all folks, as wheat is shaken together in a riddle, and a little stone shall not fall on the earth. 
All sinners of my people shall die by sword, which say, Evil shall not nigh, and shall not come on us. 
In that day I shall raise the tabernacle of David, that fell down, and I shall again-build openings of the walls thereof, and I shall restore the things that fell down; and I shall again-build it, as in old days, 
that they wield the remnants of Idumea, and all nations; for that my name is called to help on them, saith the Lord doing these things. 
Lo! days come, saith the Lord, and the earer shall overtake the reaper, and the treader, or stamper, of grapes shall overtake the man sowing seed; and mountains shall drop sweetness, and all small hills shall be tilled. 
And I shall convert the captivity of my people Israel, and they shall build forsaken cities, and shall dwell; and shall plant vineyards, and they shall drink wine of them; and shall make gardens, and shall eat fruits of them. 
And I shall plant them on their land, and I shall no more draw out them of their land, which I gave to them, saith the Lord thy God. 
