PSALMS.
Chapter 55.
To victory, in organs, the learning of David. God, hear thou my prayer, and despise thou not my beseeching; 
give thou attention to me, and hear thou me. I am sorrowful in mine exercising; 
and I am disturbed of the face of the enemy, and of the tribulation of the sinner. For they bowed wicked-nesses into me; and in ire they were dis-easeful to me. 
Mine heart was troubled in me; and the dread of death felled on me. 
Dread and trembling came on me; and darknesses covered me. 
And I said, Who shall give to me feathers, as of a culver; and I shall fly, and shall take rest? 
Lo! I went far away, and fled; and I dwelled in wilderness. 
I abode him, that made me safe from the littleness, either dread, of spirit; and from tempest. 
Lord, cast thou down, and part thou the tongues of them; for I saw wickedness and against-saying in the city. 
By day and night wickedness shall encompass it on the walls thereof; and travail and unrightfulness be in the midst of them. 
And usury and guile or treachery failed not; from the streets thereof. 
For if mine enemy had cursed me; soothly I had suffered. And if he, that hated me, had spoken great things on me; in hap I had hid me from him. 
But thou art a man of one will; my leader, and my known. 
Which tookest together sweet meats and fellowship with me; we went with consent in the house of God. 
Death come on them; and go they down quick into hell. For way-wardnesses be in the dwelling places of them; in the midst of them. 
But I cried to thee, Lord; and the Lord saved me. 
In the eventide, and the morrow-tide, and in midday, I shall tell, and show; and he shall hear my voice. 
He shall again-buy my soul in peace from them, that nigh to me; for among many they were with me. 
God shall hear; and he that is before the worlds shall make them low. For changing is not to them, and they dreaded not God; 
he holdeth forth his hand in yielding. They defouled his testament, 
the cheers thereof were parted from ire; and his heart nighed. The words thereof were softer than oil; and they be darts. 
Cast thy care, or thought, or thy busyness, on the Lord, and he shall fully nourish thee; and he shall not give without end fluttering to a just or rightwise man. 
But thou, God, shalt lead them forth; into the pit of death. Men-quellers and beguilers shall not have half their days; but, Lord, I shall hope in thee. 
