DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 29.
These be the words of the bond of peace, which the Lord commanded to Moses, that he should make with the sons of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the bond of peace, which he covenanted with them in Horeb. 
And Moses called all Israel, and said to them, Ye have seen all things which the Lord did before you in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land; 
the great temptations which thine eyes have seen, those signs, and the great wonders. 
And the Lord gave not to you an heart understanding, and eyes seeing, and ears that may hear, till into this present day. 
He led you by forty years through desert; your clothes were not broken, neither the shoes of your feet were wasted by eldness; 
ye ate not bread, neither ye drank wine and cider, that ye should know that he is your Lord God. 
And ye came to this place; and Sihon, the king of Heshbon went out, and Og, the king of Bashan, and they came to us to battle. And we smote them, 
and we took away their land, and we gave it to possession, to Reuben, and to Gad, and to the half lineage of Manasseh. 
Therefore keep ye the words of this covenant, and fulfill ye them, that ye understand all things which ye shall do. 
All ye stand today before your Lord God, your princes, and lineages, and the greater men in birth, and your teachers or doctors, all the people of Israel, 
your free children, and your wives, and the comelings that dwell with thee in the tents, besides the hewers of wood, and besides they or them that bear water; 
that thou go into the bond of peace of thy Lord God, and in the oath which thy Lord God smiteth with thee, 
that he raise thee up into a people to himself, and that he be thy Lord God, as he spake to thee, and as he swore to thy fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. 
And not to you alone I make this bond of peace, and confirm these oaths, 
but to all men, present and absent. 
For ye know how we dwelled in the land of Egypt, and how we passed by the midst of nations; which ye passed, 
and saw abominations and filths, that is, their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which they worshipped. 
Lest peradventure among you be man either woman, meine either lineage, whose heart is turned away today from your Lord God, that he go, and serve the gods of those folks; and a root burgeoning gall and bitter-ness be among you; 
and when he hath heard the words of this oath, he bless himself in his heart, and say, Peace shall be to me, and I shall go in the shrewdness of mine heart; and lest the drunken take the thirsty, 
and the Lord forgive not to him, but then full greatly his strong vengeance be fierce, and his fervour burst out against that man, and all the curses that be written in this book rest upon him; and the Lord do away his name from under heaven, 
and waste him into perdition from all the lineages of Israel, by the curses that be contained in the book of this law, and of the bond of peace. 
And the generation pursuing or following shall see, and the sons that shall be born afterward, and pilgrims that shall come from a far, seeing the vengeances of that land, and the sick-nesses by which the Lord tormented that land, 
burning that land with brimstone, and heat of the sun, so that it be no more sown, neither bring forth any green thing, into ensample of the destroying of Sodom, and Gomorrah, of Admah, and of Zeboiim, which the Lord destroyed in his wrath, and strong vengeance. 
And all folks shall say, Why did the Lord so to this land? What is the great wrath of his strong vengeance? 
and they shall answer, For they forsook the covenant of the Lord, which he covenanted with their fathers, when he led them out of the land of Egypt, 
and they served alien gods, and worshipped them, which they knew not, and to which they were not given; 
therefore the strong vengeance of the Lord was wroth against this land, that he brought in upon it all the curses that be written in this book; 
and he casted them out of their land, in wrath and strong vengeance, and in full great indignation; and he casted forth them into an alien land, as it is proved today. 
Diverse things be hid, or privy, of our Lord God, that is, in his before-knowing, which things be showed to us, and to our sons without end, that we do all the words of this law. 
