LUKE.
Chapter 17.
And Jesus said to his disciples, It is impossible that causes of stumbling come not; but woe to that man, by whom they come. 
It is more profitable to him, if a millstone be put about his neck, and he be cast into the sea, than that he cause to stumble one of these little. 
Take ye heed to yourselves; if thy brother hath sinned against thee, blame him; and if he do penance, forgive him. 
And if seven times in the day he do sin against thee, and seven times in the day he be converted to thee, and say, It repenteth me, forgive thou him. 
And the apostles said to the Lord, Increase to us faith or Increase faith to us. 
And the Lord said, If ye have faith as the corn or a corn of sinapi, ye shall say to this sycamore tree, Be thou drawn up by the root, and be over-planted or planted over into the sea, and it shall obey to you. 
But who of you hath a servant earing, or pasturing oxen, which saith to him, when he turneth again from the field, Anon go, and sit to or at the meat; 
and saith not to him, Make ready, that I sup, and gird thee, and serve me, while I eat and drink, and after this thou shalt eat and drink; 
whether he hath grace to that servant, for he did that that he commanded him? Nay, I guess. 
So also ye, when ye have done all things that be commanded to you, say ye, We be unprofitable servants, we have done that that we ought to do. 
And it was done, the while Jesus went to Jerusalem, he passed through the midst of Samaria, and Galilee. 
And when he entered into a castle, ten leprous men came to meet him, which stood afar, 
and raised up their voice, and said, Jesus, Commander, have mercy on us. 
And as he saw them, he said, Go, show ye you to the priests. And it was done, while they went, they were cleansed. 
And one of them, as he saw that he was cleansed, went again, magni-fying God with a great voice. 
And he fell down on the face before his feet, and did thankings or doing graces; and this was a Samaritan. 
And Jesus answered, and said, Whether ten be not cleansed, and where be the nine? 
There is none found, that turned again, and gave glory to God, but this alien or this stranger. 
And he said to him, Rise up, go thou; for thy faith hath made thee safe. 
And he was asked of the Pharisees, when the realm of God cometh. And he answered to them, and said, The realm of God cometh not with espying, 
neither they shall say, Lo! here, or lo! there; for lo! the realm of God is within you. 
And he said to his disciples, Days shall come, when ye shall desire to see one day of man’s Son, and ye shall not see. 
And they shall say to you, Lo! here, and lo! there. Do not ye go, neither pursue; 
for as lightning shining from under heaven shineth into or on those things that be under heaven, so shall man’s Son be in his day. 
But first it behooveth him to suffer many things, and to be reproved of this generation. 
And as it was done in the days of Noah, so it shall be in the days of man’s Son. 
They ate and drank, wedded wives, and were given to weddings, till into the day in which Noah entered into the ship; and the great flood came, and lost all. 
Also as it was done in the days of Lot, they ate and drank, bought and sold, planted and builded; 
but in the day that Lot went out of Sodom, the Lord rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and lost all. 
Like this thing it shall be, in what day man’s Son shall be showed. 
In that hour or that day, he that is in the roof, and his vessels in the house, come he not down to take them away; and he that shall be in the field, also turn not again behind. 
Be ye mindful of the wife of Lot. 
Whoever seeketh to make his life safe, shall lose it; and whoever loseth it, shall quicken it. 
But I say to you, in that night two shall be in one bed, one shall be taken, and the other forsaken; 
two women shall be grinding together, the one shall be taken, and the other forsaken; 
two in a field, the one shall be taken, and the other left or forsaken. 
They answer, and say to him, Where, Lord? Which said to them, Wherever the body shall be, thither shall be gathered together also the eagles. 
