1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 7.
Forsooth the sons of Issachar were four; Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and Shimrom. 
The sons of Tola were Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Jibsam, and Shemuel, princes by the houses of their kindreds. Of the generation of Tola were numbered strongest men in the days of David, two and twenty thousand and six hundred. 
The sons of Uzzi were Izrahiah; of whom were born Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, and Ishiah, five, all princes. 
And with them were by their meines and peoples, six and thirty thousand most strong men girded to battle; for they had many wives and sons. 
And their brethren, by all the kindreds of Issachar, most strong to fight, were numbered fourscore and seven thousand. 
The sons of Benjamin were Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three. 
The sons of Bela were Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five; princes of meines, most strong to fight; for the number of them was two and twenty thousand and four and thirty. 
And the sons of Becher were Zemira, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abiah, and Anathoth, and Alameth; all these were the sons of Becher. 
And the princes of kindreds were numbered by their meines twenty thousand and two hundred most strong men to battles. 
And the sons of Jediael were Bilhan; soothly the sons of Bilhan were Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaan-ah, and Zethan, and Tharshish, and Ahishahar. 
All these the sons of Jediael were princes of their meines, seventeen thousand and two hundred, strongest men going forth to battle. 
Also Shuppim and Huppim were the sons of Ir; and Hushim was the son of Aher. 
And the sons of Naphtali were Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah. 
And the son of Manasseh was Asriel; and Sira, his secondary wife, childed Machir, the father of Gilead. 
And Machir took wives to his sons Huppim and Shuppim; and he had a sister, Maachah by name; and the name of the second son was Zelo-phehad, and daughters were born to Zelophehad. 
And Maachah, the wife of Machir, childed a son, and called his name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem. 
And the son of Ulam was Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh; 
and Hammoleketh his sister childed a fair man, Abiezer, and Mahalah. 
And the sons of Shemidah were Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam. 
And the sons of Ephraim were Shuthelah; Bered, his son; Tahath, his son; Eladah, his son; and Tahath, his son; 
and Zabad, his son; and Shuthe-lah, his son; and Ezer, and Elead, his sons. And the men of Gath born in the land killed them, for they went down to assail their possessions. 
Therefore Ephraim, the father of them, wailed by many days; and his brethren came to comfort him. 
And he entered in to his wife, which conceived, and childed a son; and he called his name Beriah, for he was born in the evils of his house. 
And his daughter was Sherah; that builded Bethhoron, the lower, and the higher, and Uzzen, and Sherah. 
And his son was called Rephah, and his son was Resheph, and his son was Telah, of whom was born Tahan; 
that engendered Laadan; and Am-mihud, the son of him, begat Elishama; 
of whom was born Nun; that had a son Joshua. 
And the possession and the dwelling places of them was Bethel with his villages, and against the east, Naaran; at the west coast, Gezer, and his villages, also Shechem with his villages, and Gaza with his villages. 
Also beside the sons of Manasseh, Bethshean and his towns, Taanach and his towns, Megiddo and his towns, Dor and his towns; and the sons of Joseph, son of Israel, dwelled in these towns. 
The sons of Asher were Imnah, and Isuah, and Ishuai, and Beriah; and Serah was the sister of them. 
And the sons of Beriah were Heber, and Malchiel; he is the father of Birzavith. 
And Heber engendered Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua, the sister of them. 
And the sons of Japhlet were Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath; these were the sons of Japhlet. 
And the sons of Shamer were Ahi, and Rohgah, and Jehubbah, and Aram. 
And the sons of Helem, his brother, were Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal. 
The sons of Zophah were Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah, 
and Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera. 
The sons of Jether were Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara. 
And the sons of Ulla were Arah, and Haniel, and Rezia. 
All these were the sons of Asher, princes of kindreds, chosen men and full strong dukes of dukes; and the number, of the age of them that were able to battle, was six and twenty thousand. 
