LEVITICUS.
Chapter 17.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel, and say thou to them, This is the word which the Lord commanded, and said, 
Each man of the house of Israel shall be guilty of blood, or great sin, if he slayeth an ox, or a sheep, either a goat, in the tents, either out of the tents, 
and offereth not an offering to the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of witnessing; as if he shedded man’s blood, so he shall perish from the midst of his people. 
Therefore the sons of Israel owe to offer their sacrifices to the priest, which they slay in the field, that those or they be hallowed to the Lord, before the door of the tabernacle of witnessing, and that they offer those peaceable sacrifices to the Lord. 
And the priest shall pour out the blood upon the altar of the Lord, at the door of the tabernacle of witnessing; and he shall burn the inner fatness into odour of sweetness to the Lord. 
And they shall no more offer their sacrifices to fiends, with which they did fornication, that is, idolatry; it shall be a lawful thing everlasting to them, and to their after-comers. 
And thou shalt say to them, A man of the house of Israel, and of the comelings that be pilgrims among you, that offereth a burnt sacrifice, either a slain sacrifice, 
and bringeth it not to the door of the tabernacle of witnessing, that it be offered to the Lord, he shall perish from his people. 
If any man of the sons of Israel, and of the comelings that be pilgrims among you, eateth any blood, I shall set fast my face against his soul, and I shall lose him from his people; 
for the life of flesh is in the blood, and I gave that blood to you, that ye cleanse therewith upon mine altar for your souls, and that the blood be sprinkled for the sin of the soul. 
Therefore I said to the sons of Israel, Each living man of you shall not eat blood, neither any of the comelings that be pilgrims among you. 
Whatever man of the sons of Israel, or of the comelings that be pilgrims with you, taketh a wild beast, either a bird, which it is leaveful to eat, whether by hunting, whether by hawking, pour he out the blood thereof, and cover it with earth; 
for the life of all flesh is in blood. Wherefore I said to the sons of Israel, Ye shall not eat the blood of any flesh, for the life of flesh is in the blood, and whoever eateth blood, shall perish. 
A man that eateth a thing dead by itself, either taken of a beast, as well of men born in the land, as of comelings, he shall wash his clothes, and himself in water, and he shall be defouled, till to eventide; and by this order, he shall be made clean; 
that if he washeth not his clothes, or his body, he shall bear his wicked-ness. 
