PROVERBS.
Chapter 28.
A wicked man fleeth, when no man pursueth; but a just or rightwise man as a lion trusting shall be without fearedfulness. 
For the sins of the land there be many princes of it; and for the wisdom of a man, and for the knowing of these things that be said, the life of the duke shall be the longer. 
A poor man falsely challenging poor men, is like a great rain, wherein hunger is made ready. 
They that forsake the law, praise the wicked man; they that keep the law, be kindled, or stirredup, against him. 
Wicked men think not on doom; but they that seek the Lord, perceive all things. 
Better is a poor man going in his simpleness, than a rich man in his shrewd ways. 
He that keepeth the law, is a wise son; but he that feedeth gluttons, shameth his father. 
He that gathereth together riches by usuries, and free increases, gathereth those or them together against poor men. 
His prayer shall be made cursed, that boweth away his ear, that he hear not the law. 
He that deceiveth just or rightwise men in an evil way, shall fall in his perishing; and just or rightwise men shall wield his goods. 
A rich man seemeth wise to himself; but a poor man prudent shall search him out or know his counsel. 
In the enhancing of just or rightwise men is much glory; when wicked men reign, fallings of men be. 
He that hideth his great trespasses, shall not be made rightful; but he that acknowledgeth and forsaketh them, shall get mercy. 
Blessed is the man, which is ever dreadful; but he that is of hard heart, shall fall into evil. 
A roaring lion, and an hungry bear, is a wicked prince on a poor people. 
A duke needy of prudence shall oppress many men by false challenge; but the days of him that hateth avarice shall be made long. 
No man sustain a man that falsely challengeth the blood of a man, if he fleeth till to the pit. 
He that goeth simply shall be safe; he that goeth by wayward ways, shall fall down at once. 
He that worketh his land, shall be filled with loaves; he that pursueth or followeth idleness, shall be filled with neediness. 
A faithful man shall be praised much; but he that hasteth to be made rich, shall not be innocent. 
He that knoweth a face in doom, doeth not well; this man forsaketh truth, yea, for a morsel of bread. 
A man that hasteth to be made rich, and hath envy to other men, knoweth not that neediness shall come up on him. 
He that reproveth a man, shall find grace afterward with him; more than he that deceiveth by flatterings of tongue. 
He that withdraweth anything from his father and from his mother, and saith that this is no sin, is partner of a man-queller. 
He that avaunteth himself, and alargeth, raiseth up strives; but he that hopeth in the Lord, shall be saved. 
He that trusteth in his heart, is a fool; but he that goeth wisely, shall be praised. 
He that giveth to a poor man, shall not be needy; he that despiseth a poor man beseeching, shall suffer neediness. 
When unpious men rise, men shall be hid; and when they have perished, just or rightwise men shall be multiplied. 
