HOSEA.
Chapter 10.
Israel was a vine full of boughs, fruit was made even to him; by or after the multitude of his fruit he multiplied altars, by the plenty of his land he was plenteous, or after the plenty of his land he was plenteous in simulacra, or false gods. 
In simulacra the heart of them is parted or The heart of them is parted, now they shall perish. He shall break the simulacra of them, he shall rob or spoil the altars of them. 
For then they shall say, A king is not to us, for we dreaded not the Lord. And what shall a king do to us? 
Speak ye words of unprofitable vision, and ye shall smite bond of peace with leasing; and doom as bitterness shall burgeon on the furrows of the field. 
The dwellers of Samaria worship-ped the kine of Bethaven. For the people thereof mourned on that calf, and the keepers of the house thereof; they made full out joy on it in the glory thereof, for it passed from that people. 
For also it was borne to Assur, a gift to the king avenger. Confusion shall take Ephraim, and Israel shall be shamed in his will. 
Samaria made his king to pass as froth on the face of water. 
And the high things of idol, the sin of Israel, shall be lost. A clote and a briar shall ascend or go up on the altars of them. And they shall say to mountains, Cover ye us, and to little hills, Fall ye down on us. 
From the days of Gibeah Israel sinned; there they stood. Battle shall not overtake them in Gibeah, on the sons of wickedness. 
By my desire I shall chastise them; peoples shall be gathered together on them, when they shall be chastised for their two wickednesses. 
Ephraim is a cow calf, taught for to love threshing; and I went on the fairness of the neck thereof. I shall go upon Ephraim. Judah shall ear, and Jacob shall break furrows to himself. 
Sow ye to you rightfulness or rightwiseness in truth, and reap ye in the mouth of mercy, and make ye new to you a field newly brought to tilth. Forsooth time is to seek the Lord, when he cometh, that shall teach you rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
Ye have eared unfaithfulness, ye have reaped wickedness, ye have eaten the corn of leasing. For thou trustedest in thy ways, and in the multitude of thy strong men. 
Noise shall rise in thy people, and all thy strongholds shall be destroyed; as Shalman was destroyed of the house of him, that took vengeance on Betharbel; in the day of battle, when the mother was hurtled down on the sons. 
So Bethel did to you, for the face of malice of your wickednesses. As the morrowtide passeth, the king of Israel shall pass forth. 
