1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 12.
Also these came to David in Ziklag, when he fled yet from Saul, the son of Kish; the which were full strong men and noble fighters, 
bending bow, and casting stones with slings with ever either hand, and directing arrows; of the brethren of Saul of Benjamin, 
the prince Ahiezer, and Joash, the sons of Shemaah of Gibeah; and Jeziel, and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth; and Berachah, and Jehu of Anathoth; 
also Ismaiah of Gibeon was one of the strongest among thirty, and above thirty; Jeremy, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Josabad the Gederathite, 
Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite, 
Elkanah, and Jesiah, and Azareel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, of Korhites, 
and Joelah, and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor. 
But also some of Gadites’ strongest men, and best fighters, holding shield and spear, fled over to David, when he was hid in desert; the faces of them as the face of a lion, and they were swift as caprets in hills. 
Ezer was the prince, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third, 
Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremy the fifth, 
Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh, 
Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 
Jeremy the tenth, Machbanai the eleventh; 
these of the sons of Gad were princes of the host; and the least, that is, he that had the least power, was sovereign over an hundred knights, and the most was over a thousand. 
These it be that passed over Jordan in the first month, when it was wont to flow over his brinks; and they drove away all men, that is, heathen men, that dwelled in the valleys at the east coast, and at the west coast. 
And also men of Benjamin and of Judah came to the stronghold, where-in David dwelled. 
And David went out against them, and said, If ye come peaceable to me, for to help me, mine heart be joined to you; forsooth if ye set ambush to me for mine adversaries, since I have not wickedness in the hands, God of our fathers see and deem. 
And the spirit clothed Amasai, the prince among thirty, and he said, O! David, we be thine, and thou, son of Jesse, we shall be with thee; peace, peace to thee, and peace to thine helpers, for thy Lord God helpeth thee. Therefore David received them, and made them princes of the company. 
And men of Manasseh fled over to David, when he came with Philistines to fight against Saul, and he fought not with them; for after that the princes of Philistines had taken counsel, they sent him again, and said, With peril of our head, he shall turn again to Saul his lord. 
Therefore when David turned again into Ziklag, men of Manasseh fled over to him, Adnah, and Jozabad, Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zilthai, princes of knights of horsemen in Manasseh. 
These men gave help to David against the thieves; for all were full strong men, and were made princes in the host. 
But also by each day men came to David, for to help him, till that the number was made as great as the host of God. 
Also this is the number of the princes of the host that came to David, when he was in Hebron, that they should translate the realm of Saul to him, by the word of the Lord; 
the sons of Judah, bearing shield and spear, six thousand and eight hundred, ready to battle; 
of the sons of Simeon, seven thousand and an hundred, of strongest men to fight; 
of the sons of Levi, four thousand and six hundred; 
also Jehoiada, prince of the generation of Aaron, and three thousand and seven hundred with him; 
also Zadok, a young man of noble wit, and the house of his father, two and twenty princes; 
and of the sons of Benjamin, the brethren of Saul, three thousand; for a great part of them pursued or followed yet the house of Saul; 
and of the sons of Ephraim, twenty thousand and eight hundred, full strong men in bodily might, men named in their meines; 
and of the half part of the lineage of Manasseh, eighteen thousand; all came by their names, to make David king; 
also of the sons of Issachar, two hundred princes, learned men, that knew each time to command what the people of Israel ought to do; and all the remnant of the lineage pursued or followed the counsels of them; 
and of Zebulun came fifty thousand into his help, not in double heart, which went out to battle, and stood in the battle array, and were made ready with armours or arms of battle; 
and of Naphtali a thousand princes, and with them came seven and thirty thousand men, arrayed with shield and spear; 
also of Dan, eight and twenty thousand and six hundred men, made ready to battle; 
and of Asher forty thousand men, going out to battle, and stirred to battle in the battle array. 
And beyond Jordan, of the sons of Reuben, and of Gad, and of the half part of the lineage of Manasseh, sixscore thousand men, arrayed with armours or arms of battle. 
All these men warriors and ready to battle, came with perfect heart into Hebron, to make David king upon all Israel; but also all the residue of Israel were of one heart, that David should be made king upon all Israel. 
And they were there at David three days, and ate and drank; for their brethren had made ready to them; 
but also they that were nigh them, till to Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, brought loaves on asses, and camels, and mules, and oxen, for to eat; meal, bundles of pressed figs, and dried grapes, wine, and oil, oxen and wethers, to all plenty; for joy was in Israel. 
