1ST SAMUEL.
Chapter 27.
And David said in his heart, Sometime I shall fall in one day in the hand of Saul; whether it is not better, that I flee, and be saved in the land of Philistines, that Saul despair, and cease to seek me in all the ends of Israel; therefore flee we his hands. 
And David rose up, and went forth, he and six hundred men with him, to Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath. 
And David dwelled with Achish in Gath, he, and his men, and his house; that is, David, and his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel. 
And it was told to Saul, that David fled into Gath; and he added no more that he should seek David or he added no more for to seek him. 
Forsooth David said to Achish, If I have found grace in thine eyes, a place be given to me in one of the cities of this country, that I dwell there; for why dwelleth thy servant in the city of the king with thee? 
Therefore Achish gave him Ziklag in that day, for the which cause Ziklag was made into possession of the kings of Judah unto this day. 
And the number of days, in which David dwelled in the country of Philistines, was days, that is a year, and four months. 
And David went up, and his men, and they took preys of Geshurites, and of Gezrites, and of men of Amalek; for these towns were inhabited by eld or old time in the land, to men going to Shur, unto the land of Egypt. 
And David smote all the land of them, and he left not man nor woman living; and he took sheep, and oxen, and asses, and camels, and clothes, and turned again, and came to Achish. 
And Achish said to him, Into whom hurled ye today?/Against whom have ye hurled today? And David answered, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of Jerahmeel, and against the south of Kenites. 
David left not quick man and woman, neither brought into Gath, and said, Lest peradventure they speak against us. David did these things, and this was his doom, in all the days in which he dwelled in the country of Philistines. 
Therefore Achish believed to David, and said, Certainly he hath wrought many evils against his people Israel, therefore he shall be a servant to me for evermore. 
