DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 13.
If a prophet riseth in the midst of thee, either he that saith himself to have seen a dream, and he before-saith a sign, and a wonder to come after, 
and this thing that he said befalleth, and he saith to thee, Go we, and pursue or follow we alien gods, which thou knowest not, and serve we them, 
thou shalt not hear the words of that prophet, either of that dreamer; for your Lord God assayeth you, that he know openly whether ye love him, either nay, in all your heart, and in all your soul. 
Pursue or follow ye your Lord God, and dread ye him; keep ye his commandments, and hear ye his voice; ye shall serve him, and ye shall cleave to him. 
And that prophet, either feigner of dreams, shall be slain; for he spake that he should turn you away from your Lord God, that led you out of the land of Egypt, and again-bought you from the house of servage, that he make thee to err from the way that thy Lord God commanded to thee; and in killing of him thou shalt do away evil from the midst of thee. 
If thy brother, the son of thy mother, either thy son, either thy daughter, either the wife which is in thy bosom, either thy friend, whom thou lovest as thy soul, will counsel thee, and saith privily, Go we and serve alien gods, which thou knowest not, and thy fathers know not, 
of all the folks about, that be nigh either far, from the beginning unto the end of the land, 
assent thou not to him, neither hear thou him, neither thine eye spare him, that thou have mercy of him, and hide him, 
but anon thou shalt slay him. Thine hand be first upon him, and after thee, all the people put to hand. 
He shall be oppressed with stones, and shall be slain; for he would draw thee away from thy Lord God, that led thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of servage, 
that all Israel hear this and dread, and do no more anything like this thing. 
If thou hearest any men saying in one of thy cities, which thy Lord God shall give thee to dwell in, 
The sons of Belial went out from the midst of thee, and turned away the dwellers of the city, and said, Go we, and serve alien gods, which ye knew not, 
inquire thou busily, and when the truth of the thing is beholden diligently, if thou findest that this thing is certain, that is said, and that this abomination is done indeed, 
anon thou shalt smite the dwellers of that city with the sharpness of sword, and thou shalt destroy that city, and all things that be therein, unto the beasts. 
Also whatever thing of appurtenance of household is found there, thou shalt gather it together in the midst of the streets thereof, and thou shalt burn it with that city, so that thou waste all things before thy Lord God, and it be a burial everlasting; it shall no more be builded. 
And nothing of that cursing shall dwell in thine hand, that the Lord be turned away from the wrath of his strong vengeance, and have mercy upon thee, and multiply thee, as he swore to thy fathers. 
When thou hast heard the voice of thy Lord God, thou shalt keep all his behests which I command to thee today, that thou do that thing that is pleasing in the sight of thy Lord God. 
