WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
Chapter 6.
Therefore, ye kings, hear, and understand; and ye judges of the coasts of earth, learn. Heareth then, ye kings, and understandeth; learneth, ye doomsmen of the coasts of the earth. 
Ye that hold together multitudes, and please you in the companies of nations, give ears; Giveth ears, ye that hold together multitudes, and please to you in companies of nations; 
for why power is given of the Lord to you, and virtue is given of the Highest, that shall ask your works, and shall search thoughts. 
For when ye were ministers of his realm, ye deemed not rightfully or rightly, neither ye kept the law of rightfulness, neither ye went by the will of God. 
Hideously or Horribly and soon he shall appear to you; for why harshest doom shall be made in them, that be sovereigns. 
Forsooth mercy is granted to a little man; but mighty men shall suffer torments mightily. 
For the Lord, which is lord of all things, shall not withdraw the person of any man, neither he shall dread the greatness of any man; for he made both the little man and the great man, and charge or care is to him evenly of all men 
But stronger torment nigheth to stronger men. 
Therefore, ye kings, these my words be to you, that ye learn wisdom, and that ye fall not down. To you then, kings, be these my words, that ye learn wisdom, and that ye fall not. 
For they that keep rightfulness or rightwiseness, shall be deemed right-fully; and they, that learn just things, shall find, what they shall answer. 
Therefore covet ye my words, and love ye those; and ye shall have teaching. Coveteth than my words, and loveth them; and ye shall have discipline. 
Wisdom is clear, and that shall never fade; and it is seen lightly of them that love it, and it is found of them that seek it. 
It before-occupieth them that covet it, that it show itself the former to them. 
He that waketh by light to it, shall not travail; forsooth he shall find it sitting nigh his gates. 
Therefore to think on wisdom is perfect wit, and he that waketh for it, shall soon be secure. 
For why it goeth about, and seeketh men worthy to it; and in their ways or in his ways it shall show itself gladly to them, and in all purveyance it shall meet them. 
For why the beginning of wisdom is the veriest covetousness of learning. Therefore the busyness of learning is love; The beginning forsooth of it most very coveting of discipline. Then care of discipline is loving; 
and love is the keeping of laws thereof or of his laws. Soothly the keeping of laws is perfection of uncorruption; 
forsooth uncorruption maketh to be next to God. 
Therefore the covetousness of wisdom shall bring to everlasting realm or kingdom. 
Therefore if ye, kings of the people, delight in seats, and in kings’ rods, or regalties, love ye wisdom, that ye reign without end. All ye, that be sovereigns to peoples, love the light of wisdom. 
Soothly what is wisdom, and how it is made, I shall tell; and I shall not hide from you the sacraments of God; but from the beginning of birth I shall seek, and I shall set into the light the knowing thereof, and I shall not pass beside the truth. 
And I shall not have way with envy waxing rotten; for such a man shall not be a partner of wisdom. 
Forsooth the multitude of wise men is the health of the world; and a wise king is the stablishing or the stability of the people. 
Therefore take ye teaching or discipline by my words, and it shall profit to you. 
