EZEKIEL.
Chapter 45.
And when ye shall begin to part the land by parts, separate ye the first things to the Lord, an hallowed thing of the land, five and twenty thousand of reeds in length, and ten thousand of reeds in breadth; it shall be hallowed in all the coast thereof by compass. 
And it shall be hallowed on each part in five hundred reeds, by five hundred, in four sides by compass, and in fifty cubits into the suburbs thereof by compass. 
And from this measure thou shalt mete the length of five and twenty thousand of reeds, and the breadth of ten thousand; and the temple and the holy of holy things shall be in it. 
An hallowed thing of the land shall be to priests, the ministers of the saintuary, that nigh to the service of the Lord; and a place shall be to them into houses, and into the saintuary of holiness. 
Soothly five and twenty thousand of length shall be, and ten thousand of breadth; but the deacons that minister to the house, they shall have in possession twenty chambers. 
And ye shall give the possession of the city, five thousand reeds of breadth, and five and twenty thousand of length, by the separating of the saintuary, to all the house of Israel. 
And ye shall give a portion to the prince on this side and on that side, beside the separating of the saintuary, and beside the possession of the city, against the face of separating of the saintuary, and against the face of possession of the city; from the side of the sea till to the sea, and from the side of the east till to the east, shall be of the possession of the prince. Forsooth the length by each of the parts, from the west end till to the east end of the land, 
shall be possession to him in Israel; and the princes shall no more rob my people, but they shall give the rest of the land to the house of Israel, by the lineages of them. 
The Lord God saith these things, O! princes of Israel, suffice it to you, leave ye wickedness and raven, and do ye doom and rightfulness; part ye your nigh coasts from my people, saith the Lord God. 
A just balance, and a just measureof dry thingscalled ephah, and a just measureof flowing thingscalled bath, shall be to you. 
Ephah and bath shall be even, and of one measure, that a bath take the tenth part of the measure called a cor, and that an ephah take the tenth part of the measure called a cor; by the measure of cor shall be even weighing of those or them. 
Forsooth a shekel shall have twenty halfpence; certainly twenty shekels, and five and twenty shekels, and fifteen shekels make a bezant. 
And these be the first fruits which ye shall take away; the sixth part of ephah of a cor of wheat, and the sixth part of ephah of a cor of barley. 
Also the measure of oil; a bath of oil is the tenth part of cor, and ten baths make one cor; for ten baths fill one cor. 
And one ram, either wether, of the flock of two hundred, of these which the men of Israel nourish, into sacrifice, and into burnt sacrifice, and into peaceable sacrifices, to cleanse for them, saith the Lord God. 
All the people of the land shall be bound in these first fruits to the prince in Israel. 
And on the part of the prince shall be burnt sacrifices, and sacrifices, and moist sacrifices, in solemnities, and in calends, either beginnings of months, and in sabbaths, and in all the solemnities of the house of Israel; he shall make ready the sacrifice for sin, and burnt sacrifice, and peaceable sacrifices, to cleanse for the house of Israel. 
The Lord God saith these things, In the first month, in the first day of the month, thou shalt take a calf without wem of the drove, and thou shalt cleanse the saintuary. 
And the priest shall take of the blood of the beast that shall be for sin; and he shall put in the posts of the house, and in four corners of the height of the altar, and in the posts of the gate of the inner foreyard. 
And thus thou shalt do in the seventh day of the month, for each that knew not, and was deceived by error, and thou shalt cleanse for the house. 
In the first month, in the fourteenth day of the month, the solemnity of pask shall be to you; therf loaves shall be eaten by seven days. 
And the prince shall make ready a calf for sin in that day, for himself and for all the people of the land. 
And in the solemnity of seven days he shall make burnt sacrifice to the Lord; he shall offer seven calves and seven wethers without wem each day, by seven days, and each day a buck of goats, for sin. 
And he shall make the sacrifice of ephah by a calf, and of ephah by a wether, and of oil the measure hin, by each ephah. 
In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of the month, in the solemnity, he shall make as those or they be before-said, by seven days, as well for sin, as for burnt sacrifice, and in sacrifice, and in oil. 
