JOB.
Chapter 33.
Therefore, Job, hear thou my speeches, and hearken to all my words. 
Lo! I have opened my mouth, my tongue shall speak in my cheeks. 
Of simple heart be my words, and my lips shall speak clean sentence. 
The spirit of God made me, and the breathing of Almighty God quick-ened me. 
If thou mayest, answer thou to me, and stand thou against my face. 
Lo! God made me as and thee; and also I am formed of the same clay. 
Nevertheless my miracle, that is, knowing given of God, either by miracle, to me, make thee not afeared, and mine eloquence be not grievous to thee. 
Thou saidest in mine hearing, and I heard the voice of thy words, 
I am clean, and without guilt, and unwemmed, and wickedness is not in me. 
For God found quarrels in me, therefore he deemed me enemy to himself. 
He hath set or put my feet in a stock; he kept all my paths. 
Therefore this thing it is, in which thou art not made just; I shall answer to thee, that God is more than man. 
Thou, Job, strivest against God, that not at all thy words he answered to thee. 
God speaketh once, and the second time he rehearseth not the same thing. 
God speaketh by a dream in the vision of night, when sleep falleth on men, and when they sleep in their bed. 
Then he openeth the ears of men, and he teacheth them, and teacheth prudence or discipline; 
that he turn away a man from these things which he made, and deliver him from pride; 
and that he deliver his soul from corruption, and his life, that it go not into sword. 
Also God blameth a man by sorrow in his bed, and he maketh all the bones of him for to wax rotten. 
Bread is made abominable to him in his life, and the meat, that before was to him desirable, loathed to his soul after. 
His flesh shall fail for rot, and his bones, that were covered, shall be made naked. 
His soul shall nigh to corruption, and his life to things bringing death. 
If an angel, one of a thousand, is speaking for him, that he show the equity of man, 
God shall have mercy on him, and shall say, Deliver thou him, that he go not down into corruption; I have found in what thing I shall do mercy to him. 
His flesh is wasted with torments; turn he again to the days of his young waxing age. 
He shall beseech God, and he shall be quemeful to him; and he shall see his face in perfect joy, and he shall yield to man his rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
He shall behold men, and he shall say, I have sinned, and verily I have trespassed; and I have not received, as I was worthy. 
Forsooth he hath delivered his soul, that it should not go into perish-ing, but that he living should see light. 
Lo! God worketh all these things in three times by all men; 
that he again-call their souls from corruption, and enlighten them in the light of living men. 
Job, take heed, and hear thou me, and be thou still, while I speak. 
But if thou hast ready what thou shalt speak, answer thou to me, speak; for I will or desire, that thou appear just. 
That if thou hast not, hear thou me; be thou still, and I shall teach thee wisdom. 
