2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 8.
But, brethren, we make known to you the grace of God, that is given in the churches of Macedonia, 
that in much assaying of tribula-tion, the plenty or the abundance of the joy of them was, and the highest poverty of them was plenteous into the riches of the simpleness of them. 
For I bear witnessing to them, after might, or after power, and above might they were willful, 
with much admonishing beseech-ing us the grace and the communing of ministering or of the ministry that is made to holy men. 
And not as we hoped, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, afterward to us by the will of God. 
So that we prayed Titus, that as he began, so also he perform in you this grace. 
But as ye abound in all things, in faith, and word, and knowing or science, and all busyness, moreover and in your charity into us, that also in this grace ye abound. 
I say not as commanding, but by the busyness of other men proving also the good wit of your charity. 
And ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, for he was made needy for you, when he was rich, that ye should be made rich by his neediness. 
And I give counsel in this thing; for this is profitable to you, that not only have begun to do, but also ye began to have will from the former year. 
But now perform ye in deed, that as the discretion of will is ready to desire good, so be it also of perform-ing of that that ye have. 
For if the will be ready, it is accepted after that that it hath, not after that that it hath not. 
And not that it be remission, or idleness, or sloth, to other men, and to you tribulation; 
but of evenness in the present time your abundance fulfill the need of them, that also the abundance of them be a fulfilling of your need, that evenness be made; 
as it is written, He that gathered much, was not increased, and he that gathered little, had not less. 
And I do thankings to God, that gave the same busyness for you in the heart of Titus, 
for he received exhortation; but when he was busier, by his will he went forth to you. 
And we sent with him a brother, whose praising is in the gospel by all churches. 
And not only praised, but also he is ordained of churches the fellow of our pilgrimage into this grace, that is administered of us, to the glory of the Lord, and to our ordained will; 
eschewing this thing, that no man blame us in this plenty, that is admin-istered of us, to the glory of the Lord. 
For we purvey good things, not only before God, but also before all men. 
For we sent with them also our brother, whom we have proved in many things oft, that he was busy, but now much busier, for much trust in you, 
either for Titus, that is my fellow and helper in you, either for our brethren, apostles of the churches of the glory of Christ. 
Therefore show ye to them in the face of churches, that showing that is of your charity, and of our glory for you. 
