LEVITICUS.
Chapter 10.
And when Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, had taken censers, and putted or put fire, and incense there above, and offered before the Lord alien fire, which thing was not commanded to them. 
And fire went out from the Lord, and devoured them, and they were dead before the Lord. 
And Moses said to Aaron, This thing it is that the Lord spake, I shall be hallowed in them that nigh to me, and I shall be glorified in the sight of all the people; which thing Aaron heard, and was still. 
Soothly when Moses had called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel, the brother of Aaron’s father, he said to them, Go ye, and take away your brethren from the sight of the saintuary, and bear ye them out of the tents. 
And anon they went, and took them, as they lay clothed with linen coats, and casted them out, as it was commanded to them. 
And Moses spake to Aaron, and to Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron, Do not ye make naked your heads, and do not ye rend your clothes, lest peradventure ye die, and indignation of God rise upon all the company; your brethren and all the house of Israel bewail the burning which the Lord hath raised up. 
But ye shall not go out of the gates of the tabernacle, else ye shall perish; for the oil of holy anointing is on you. The which did all things by the behest of Moses. 
Also the Lord said to Aaron, 
Thou and thy sons shall not drink wine, and all thing that may make drunken, when ye shall enter into the tabernacle of witnessing, lest ye die; for it is everlasting behest into your generations, 
and that ye have knowing to make doom betwixt holy thing and unholy, betwixt polluted thing and clean; 
and that ye teach the sons of Israel all my lawful things, which the Lord spake to them by the hand of Moses. 
And Moses spake to Aaron, and to Eleazar and Ithamar, his sons that were left, Take ye the sacrifice that was left of the offering of the Lord, and eat ye it without sourdough, beside the altar, for it is holy of holy things. 
Soothly ye shall eat in the holy place that that is given to thee, and to thy sons, of the offerings of the Lord, as it is commanded to me. 
Also thou, and thy sons, and thy daughters with thee, shall eat in the cleanest place the breast which is offered, and the shoulder which is separated; for those be kept to thee, and to thy free sons, of the healthful sacrifices of the sons of Israel; 
for they raised before the Lord the shoulder and the breast, and the inner fatnesses that be burnt in the altar; and pertain they to thee, and to thy sons, by everlasting law, as the Lord commanded. 
Among these things when Moses sought the goat buck that was offered for sin, he found it burnt, and he was wroth against Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron’s sons, that were left alive. And he said, 
Why ate not ye the sacrifice for sin in the holy place, the which sacrifice is holy of holy things, and it is given to you, that ye bear the wickedness of the multitude, and pray for it in the sight of the Lord; 
mostly since of the blood thereof is not borne in within the holy things, and ye ought to eat it in the saintuary, as it is commanded to me? 
And Aaron answered, Sacrifice for sin, and burnt sacrifice is offered today before the Lord; soothly this thing that thou seest, befelled to me; how might I eat it, either please God in ceremonies, with sorrowful soul? 
And when Moses had heard this, he received satisfaction, or covenable answer. 
