JOSHUA.
Chapter 18.
And all the sons of Israel were gathered in Shiloh, and there they setted fast or pitched the tabernacle of witnessing; and the land was subject to them. 
And seven lineages of the sons of Israel dwelt there, that had not yet taken their possessions. 
To the which Joshua said, How long fade ye, or wallow through sloth, and enter not to wield the land, which the Lord God of your fathers hath given to you? 
Choose ye of each lineage three men, that I send them, and they go, and compass the land; and that they describe the land by the number of each multitude, and bring to me that, that ye have described. 
Part ye the land to you into seven parts; Judah be in his terms at the south coast, and the house of Joseph at the north; 
describe ye the middle land betwixt them into seven parts; and then ye shall come to me, that I send lot to you here before your Lord God; 
for the part of Levites is not among you, but the priesthood of the Lord, this is the heritage of them. For Gad, and Reuben, and the half lineage of Manasseh, have taken now their possession beyond Jordan, at the east coast, which Moses, the servant of the Lord, gave to them. 
And when the men had risen up to go, to describe the land, Joshua commanded to them, and said, Compass ye the land, and describe it, and turn again to me, that I send lot to you here in Shiloh, before your Lord God. 
And so they went forth, and compassed that land, and parted it into seven parts, writing it in a book; and they turned again to Joshua, into the tents in Shiloh. 
And Joshua sent lots before the Lord God in Shiloh, and he parted the land to the sons of Israel, into seven parts. 
And the first lot of the sons of Benjamin, by their meines, went up, that they should wield the land betwixt the sons of Judah and the sons of Joseph. 
And the term of them was against the north from Jordan, and it passed by the side of Jericho at the north coast; and it ascended from thence against the west to the hilly places, and it came to the wilderness of Bethaven; 
and it passed beside Luz to the south; that is Bethel; and it goeth down into Atarothaddar, into the hill which is at the south of Lower Bethhoron; 
and it is bowed, and it compasseth against the sea, at the south of the hill that beholdeth Bethhoron against the north; and the outgoings thereof be into Kiriathbaal, which is called also Kiriathjearim, the city of the sons of Judah; this is the great coast against the sea, at the west. 
And from the south, by the part of Kiriathjearim, the term goeth out against the sea, and cometh till to the well of waters of Nephtoah; 
and it goeth down into the part of the hill that beholdeth the valley of the sons of Hinnom, and it is against the north coast, in the last part of the valley of Rephaim; and Ge Hinnom, that is, the valley of Hinnom, goeth down by the side of Jebusites, at the south, and cometh to the well of Rogel, 
and it passeth to the north, and it goeth out to Enshemesh, that is, the well of the sun, and it passeth unto the little hills that be against the ascending or going up of Adummim; and it goeth down to Even Bohan, that is, the stone of Bohan, the son of Reuben, 
and passed by the side of the north to the field places; and it goeth down into the plain, 
and it passeth forth against the north to Bethhoglah; and the outgoings thereof be against the arm of the saltiest sea, from the north, and the end of Jordan is at the south coast, 
which is the term thereof from the east. This is the possession of the sons of Benjamin, by their terms in compass, and by their meines; 
and the cities thereof were Jericho and Bethhoglah, and the valley of Keziz, 
Betharabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel, 
and Avim, and Parah, and Ophrah, 
the town of Chepharhaammonai, and Ophni, and Geba; twelve cities, and their towns; 
Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth, 
and Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah, 
and Rekem, Irpeel, and Taralah, 
and Zela, Eleph, and Jebus, which is Jerusalem, Gibeath, and Kiriathjearim; fourteen cities, and their towns; this is the possession of the sons of Benjamin, by their meines. 
