NUMBERS.
Chapter 1.
And the Lord spake to Moses in the desert of Sinai, in the tabernacle of the bond of peace, in the first day of the second month, in the tother year of their going out of Egypt, and said, 
Take ye the sum or the number of all the congregation of the sons of Israel, by their kindreds, and meines, and all their names each by them-selves, whatever thing of male kind, 
from the twentieth year and above, of all the strong men of Israel; and thou and Aaron shall number them by their companies. 
And the princes of the lineages, and of the meines, in their kindreds, shall be with you, 
of which princes, these be the names; of Reuben, Elizur, the son of Shedeur; 
of Simeon, Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai; 
of Judah, Nahshon, the son of Amminadab; 
of Issachar, Nethaneel, the son of Zuar; 
of Zebulun, Eliab, the son of Helon; 
soothly of the sons of Joseph; of Ephraim, Elishama, the son of Ammihud; of Manasseh, Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur; 
of Benjamin, Abidan, the son of Gideoni; 
of Dan, Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai; 
of Asher, Pagiel, the son of Ocran; 
of Gad, Eliasaph, the son of Deuel; 
of Naphtali, Ahira, the son of Enan. 
These were the noblest princes of the multitude, by their lineages, and kindreds, and the heads of the hosts of Israel, 
the which princes Moses and Aaron took, with all the multitude of the common people. 
And they gathered in the first day of the second month, and they told or numbered them by kindreds, and houses, and meines, and heads, and names of each by themselves, from the twentieth year and above, 
as the Lord commanded to Moses; and they be numbered in the desert of Sinai. 
And of Reuben, the first begotten of Israel, were numbered, in the desert of Sinai, or Of Reuben, the first begotten of Israel, by their generations, and meines, and houses, and by the names of all the heads, all thing that is of male kind, from twenty years and above, of men going forth to battle, 
six and forty thousand and five hundred. 
Of the sons of Simeon, by their generations, and meines, and houses of their kindreds, were numbered, by the names and heads of all, all that is of male kind, from twenty years and above, of men going forth to battle, 
nine and fifty thousand and three hundred. 
Of the sons of Gad, by generations, and meines, and houses of their kindreds, were numbered, by the names of all, from twenty years and above, all men that went forth to battle, 
five and forty thousand six hundred and fifty. 
Of the sons of Judah, by generations, and meines, and houses of their kindreds, by the names of all, from twenty years and above, all men that might go forth to battles, 
were numbered four and seventy thousand and six hundred. 
Of the sons of Issachar, by their generations, and meines, and houses of their kindreds, by the names of all, from twenty years and above, all men that went forth to battles, 
were numbered four and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
Of the sons of Zebulun, by generations, and meines, and houses of their kindreds, were numbered, by the names of all, from twenty years and above, all men that might go forth to battles, 
seven and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
Of the sons of Joseph, of the sons of Ephraim, by generations, and meines, and houses of their kindreds, were numbered, by the names of all, from twenty years and above, all men that might go forth to battles, 
forty thousand and five hundred. 
Forsooth of the sons of Manasseh, by their generations, and meines, and houses of their kindreds, were numbered, by the names of all, from twenty years and above, all men that might go forth to battles, 
two and thirty thousand and two hundred. 
Of the sons of Benjamin, by generations, and meines, and houses of their kindreds, were numbered, by the names of all, from twenty years and above, all men that might go forth to battles, 
five and thirty thousand and four hundred. 
Of the sons of Dan, by generations, and meines, and houses of their kin-dreds, were numbered, by the names of all, from twenty years and above, all men that might go forth to battles, 
two and sixty thousand and seven hundred. 
Of the sons of Asher, by gener-ations, and meines, and houses of their kindreds, were numbered, by the names of all, from twenty years and above, all men that might go forth to battles, 
forty thousand and a thousand and five hundred. 
Of the sons of Naphtali, by generations, and meines, and houses of their kindreds, were numbered, by the names of all, from twenty years and above, all men that might go forth to battles, 
three and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
These men it be, which Moses and Aaron and the twelve princes of Israel numbered, each by their houses and kindreds. 
And all men of the sons of Israel, by their houses, and meines, from twenty years and above, that might go forth to battles, 
were all together six hundred thousand and three thousand men, and five hundred and fifty. 
Soothly the deacons in the lineage of their meines were not numbered with them. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Do not thou number the lineage of Levi, neither set thou the sum of them with the sons of Israel; 
but thou shalt ordain them upon the tabernacle of witnessing, and upon all the vessels thereof, and upon what-ever thing pertaineth to the cere-monies, either sacrifices. They shall bear the tabernacle, and all the appur-tenances thereof, and they shall be in the service of it, and they shall set their tents by compass of the taber-nacle. 
When men shall go forth, or be removed, the deacons shall take down the tabernacle; when the tents shall be set, they shall set it up. Whoever of strangers nigheth, he shall be slain. 
Soothly the sons of Israel shall set tents, each man by his companies, and his fellowships, and his host; 
forsooth the deacons shall set their tents by compass of the tabernacle, lest indignation be made on the multitude of the sons of Israel; and they shall wake or watch in the keepings of the tabernacle of witnessing. 
Therefore the sons of Israel did by all things which the Lord commanded to Moses. 
