GALATIANS.
Chapter 1.
Paul the apostle, not of men, nor by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father, that raised him from death, 
and all the brethren that be with me, to the churches of Galatia, 
grace to you and peace of God the Father, and of the Lord Jesus Christ, 
that gave himself for our sins, to deliver us from the present wicked world, by the will of God and our Father, 
to whom is honour and glory into worlds of worlds. Amen. 
I wonder, that so soon ye be thus moved from him that called you into the grace of Christ, into another evangel or another gospel; 
which is not another, but that there be some that trouble you, and will mis-turn the evangel of Christ. 
But though we, or an angel of heaven, preached to you, besides that that we have preached to you, be he accursed. 
As I have said before, and now again I say, if any man preach to you besides that that ye have received, be he accursed or cursed be he. 
For now whether counsel I men, or God? or whether I seek to please men? If I pleased yet men, I were not Christ’s servant. 
For, brethren, I make known to you the evangel or the gospel, that was preached of me, for it is not by man; 
nor I took it of man, nor learned, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ. 
For ye have heard my conver-sation sometime in the Jewry, that I pursued surpassingly, or over-manner, or over-measure, the church of God, and fought against it. 
And I profited in the Jewry above many of mine even-elders in my kindred, and was more abundantly a follower or a lover of my fathers’ traditions. 
But when it pleased him, that parted me from my mother’s womb, and called by his grace, 
to show his Son in me, that I should preach him among the heathen, anon I drew me not to flesh and blood; 
nor I came to Jerusalem to the apostles, that were before me, but I went into Arabia, and again I turned again into Damascus. 
And since three years after I came to Jerusalem or Afterward after three years I came to Jerusalem, to see Peter, and I dwelled with him fifteen days; 
but I saw none other of the apostles, but James, our Lord’s brother. 
And these things which I write to you, lo! before God I lie not. 
Afterward I came into the coasts of Syria and Cilicia. 
But I was unknown by face to the churches of Judea, that were in Christ; 
and they had only an hearing, that he that pursued us sometime, preacheth now the faith, against which he fought sometime; 
and in me they glorified God. 
