EXODUS.
Chapter 26.
Forsooth the tabernacle shall be made thus; thou shalt make ten curtains of bis folded again, and of jacinth, and of purple, and of red silk twice-dyed, made diverse by embroidery work. 
The length of one curtain shall have eight and twenty cubits, the breadth shall be of four cubits; all the curtains shall be made of one measure. 
Five curtains shall be joined to themselves together, and other five shall cleave together by like bond. 
Thou shalt make small rings, or eyelets, of jacinth in the sides, and in the heights of the curtains, that they may be coupled together. 
One curtain shall have fifty eye-lets in ever either part, so set in, that one eyelet come against another eyelet, and that the one curtain may be shaped to the tother. 
And thou shalt make fifty golden rings, by which the veils of the curtains shall be joined, that one tabernacle be made. 
Also thou shalt make eleven says to cover the covering of the tabernacle; 
the length of one say shall have thirty cubits, and the breadth shall have four cubits; even measure shall be of all the says. 
Of which thou shalt join five by themselves, and thou shalt couple six to themselves together, so that thou double the sixth say in the front of the roof. 
And thou shalt make fifty eyelets in the hem of the one say, that it may be joined to the tother; and fifty eyelets in the hem of the tother say, that it be coupled with the tother; 
and thou shalt make fifty fastenings, or buckles, of brass, with which the small rings, or eyelets, of the curtains shall be joined together, and so one covering be made of all. 
Soothly that that is left over in the says, that be made ready to the covering, that is, one say that is more, of the half thereof, thou shalt cover the hinder part of the tabernacle; 
and a cubit shall hang on the one part, and the tother cubit on the tother part, which cubit is more in the length of the says, and it shall cover ever either side of the tabernacle. 
And thou shalt make another covering to the roof, of skins of wethers made red, and over this thou shalt make again another covering of skins of jacinth. 
Also thou shalt make the standing boards of the tabernacle, of the wood of shittim, 
which boards shall have each by themselves ten cubits in length, and in breadth a cubit and an half. 
Forsooth two indentings or rabbet-ings shall be in the sides of a board, by which one board shall be joined to another board; and in this manner all the boards shall be made ready. 
Of which boards twenty shall be in the midday side, that goeth to the south; 
to the which boards thou shalt set forty silveren bases, that two bases be set or put under each board, by two corners. 
And in the second side of the tabernacle, that goeth to the north, shall be twenty boards, 
having forty silveren bases; two bases shall be set or put under each board. 
Soothly at the west coast of the tabernacle thou shalt make six boards; 
and again thou shalt make twain or two other boards, that shall be raised, or set up, in the corners on the back half of the tabernacle; 
and the boards shall be joined to themselves from beneath till to above, and one joining shall withhold or hold all the boards. And like joining shall be kept to the two boards, that shall be set or put in the corners, 
and they shall be eight boards altogether; the silveren bases of them shall be sixteen, while two bases be reckoned by one board. 
Thou shalt make also five bars of the wood of shittim, to hold together the boards in one side of the tabernacle, 
and five other bars in the other side, and of the same number at the west coast; 
the which bars shall be put through the middle of the boards from the one end till to the other. 
And thou shalt overgild those boards, and thou shalt set golden rings in them, by the which rings, the bars shall hold together the work of the boards, the which bars thou shalt cover with golden plates. 
And thou shalt raise up the tabernacle, by the exemplar that was showed to thee in the hill. 
Thou shalt make also a veil of jacinth, and purple, and of red silk twice-dyed, and of bis folded again, by embroidery work, and woven together by fair diversity; 
which veil thou shalt hang before four pillars of the wood of shittim; and soothly those pillars shall be overgilt; and they shall have golden hooks, but the bases shall be silver. 
Forsooth the veil shall be set in by the rings, within which veil thou shalt set or put the ark of witnessing, whereby the saintuary, and the saintuary of saintuaries, shall be separated. 
And thou shalt set or put the propitiatory, that is, a golden table covering the ark of God, on the ark of the witnessing, into the holy of holy things; 
and thou shalt set a board without the veil, and against the board thou shalt set the candlestick in the south side of the tabernacle; for the board shall stand in the north side. 
Thou shalt make also a curtain in the entering of the tabernacle, of jacinth, and purple, and of red silk twice-dyed, and of bis folded again, by embroidery work. 
And thou shalt overgild five pillars of the wood of shittim, before which pillars the curtain shall be led, of which pillars the hooks shall be of gold, and the bases of brass. 
