2ND CHRONICLES.
Chapter 19.
Forsooth Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, turned again peaceably into his house into Jerusalem. 
Whom the prophet Jehu, the son of Hanani met, and said to him, Thou givest help to a wicked man, and thou art joined by friendship to them that hate the Lord; and therefore soothly thou deservedest the wrath of the Lord; 
but good works be found in thee, for thou hast done away the maumet woods from the land of Judah, and thou hast made ready thine heart, for to seek the Lord God of thy fathers. 
Therefore Jehoshaphat dwelled in Jerusalem; and again he went out to the people from Beersheba to the hill of Ephraim, and he called them again to the Lord God of their fathers. 
And he ordained judges of the land in all the strengthened cities of Judah, by each place. 
And he commanded to the judges, and said to them, See ye, that is, be ye ware, what ye do; for ye use not the doom of man, but the doom of the Lord; and whatever thing ye deem unjustly, it shall turn against you; 
the dread of the Lord be with you, and do ye all things with diligence, that is, with discretion; forsooth with the Lord your God is no wickedness, neither taking, or accepting, of persons, neither covetousness of gifts. 
And also in Jerusalem Jehoshaphat ordained deacons or Levites, and priests, and the princes of the meines of Israel, that they should deem the doom and the cause of the Lord, to the dwellers of Jerusalem. 
And he commanded to them, and said, Thus ye shall do in the dread of the Lord, faithfully, and in perfect heart. 
Each cause that cometh to you of your brethren, that dwell in their cities, betwixt kindred and kindred, wher-ever is question of the law, of the commandment, or of ceremonies, either sacrifices, or of justifyings, show ye to them, that they do not sin against the Lord, and that wrath of the Lord come not upon you, and upon your brethren. Therefore ye doing thus shall not do sin. 
And Amariah, your priest and bishop, shall be sovereign in these things, that pertain to God. And Zeba-diah, the son of Ishmael, that is duke in the house of Judah, shall be sovereign upon the works that pertain to the office of the king, and ye have master deacons or Levites before you; be ye comforted, and do ye diligently, that is, studiously, or busily, and the Lord shall be with you in goods. 
