JOB.
Chapter 41.
Whether thou shalt be able to draw out Leviathan with an hook, and shalt bind with a rope his tongue? 
Whether thou shalt put a ring in his nostrils, either shalt pierce his cheekbone with an hook? 
Whether he shall multiply prayers to thee, either shall speak soft things to thee? 
Whether he shall make a covenant with thee, and shalt thou take him for a servant everlasting? 
Whether thou shalt scorn him as a bird, either shalt thou bind him to thine handmaidens? 
Shall friends carve him, shall merchants part him? 
Whether thou shalt fill nets with his skin, and a fish basket with his head? 
Shalt thou put thine hand upon him? have thou mind of the battle, and add thou no more to speak. 
Lo! his hope shall deceive him; and in the sight of all men he shall be cast down. 
I not as cruel shall raise him; for who may against-stand my face? 
And who gave to me before, that I yield to him? All things, that be under heaven, be mine. 
I shall not spare him for his mighty words, and made fair to beseech with. 
Who shall show the face of his clothing, and who shall enter into the midst of his mouth? 
Who shall open the gates of his cheer? fearedfulness is by the compass of his teeth. 
His body is as molten shields of brass, and joined together with scales overlaying themselves. 
One is joined to another; and soothly breathing goeth not through those or them. 
One shall cleave to another, and those pieces holding together them-selves shall not be parted. 
His sneezing or snorting is as shining of fire, and his eyes be as eyelids of the morrowtide. 
Lights come forth of his mouth, as brands of fire, that be kindled. 
Smoke cometh forth of his nostrils, as a boiling pot set upon the fire. 
His breath maketh coals to burn, and flame goeth out of his mouth. 
Strength shall dwell in his neck, and neediness shall go away from before his face. 
The members of his flesh be cleaving together to themselves; God shall send floods against him, and those or they shall not be borne over to another place. 
His heart shall be made hard as a stone; and it shall be constrained together as the anvil of a smith. 
When he shall be taken away, angels shall dread; and they afeared shall be purged. 
When sword taketh him, it may not stand, neither spear, neither habergeon. 
For he shall areckon iron as chaff, and brass as rotten wood. 
A man archer shall not drive him away; the stones of a sling be turned into stubble to him. 
He shall areckon an hammer as stubble; and he shall scorn a flourishing spear. 
The beams of the sun shall be under him; and he shall strew to him-self gold as clay. 
He shall make the deep sea to boil as a pot; and he shall put it, as when ointments boil. 
A path shall shine after him; he shall guess the great ocean as waxing eld or old. 
No power there is on earth, that shall be comparisoned to him; which is made, that he should dread nothing. 
He seeth all high things; he is king over all the sons of pride. 
