NUMBERS.
Chapter 2.
And the Lord spake to Moses and to Aaron, and said, 
All men of the sons of Israel shall set tents by the companies, signs, and banners, and houses of their kindreds, by compass of the tabernacle of the bond of peace. 
At the east Judah shall set tents, by the companies of his host; and Nahshon, the son of Amminadab, shall be prince of the sons of Judah; 
and all the number of fighters of his kindred, four and seventy thousand and six hundred. 
Men of the lineage of Issachar setted tents beside him, of which the prince was Nethaneel, the son of Zuar; 
and all the number of his fighters, four and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
Eliab, the son of Helon, was prince of the lineage of Zebulun; 
all the host of fighters of his kindred, seven and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
All that were numbered in the tents of Judah, were an hundred thousand and fourscore thousand and six thousand and four hundred; and they shall go out first by their companies. 
In the tents of the sons of Reuben, at the south coast, Elizur, the son of Shedeur, shall be prince; 
and all the host of his fighters, that were numbered, six and forty thousand and five hundred. 
Men of the lineage of Simeon setted tents beside him, of which the prince was Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai; 
and all the host of his fighters, that were numbered, nine and fifty thousand and three hundred. 
Eliasaph, the son of Reuel, was prince in the lineage of Gad; 
and all the host of his fighters, that were numbered, five and forty thousand and six hundred and fifty. 
All that were numbered of the tents of Reuben, an hundred thousand and fifty thousand and one thousand and four hundred and fifty; they shall go forth in the second place by their companies. 
Soothly the tabernacle of witnessing shall be raised up by the offices of deacons or Levites, and by their companies; as it shall be raised up by them, so it shall be taken down by them; all they shall go forth by their places and orders. 
The tents of the sons of Ephraim shall be at the west coast, of which the prince was Elishama, the son of Ammihud; 
and all the host of his fighters, that were numbered, forty thousand and five hundred. 
And with them was the lineage of the sons of Manasseh, of which the prince was Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur; 
all the host of his fighters, that were numbered, were two and thirty thousand and two hundred. 
In the lineage of the sons of Benjamin, the prince was Abidan, the son of Gideoni; 
and all the host of his fighters, that were numbered, were five and thirty thousand and four hundred. 
All men that were numbered in the tents of Ephraim were an hundred thousand and eight thousand and one hundred; they shall go forth in the third place by their companies. 
At the north coast the sons of Dan setted tents, of which the prince was Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai; 
all the host of his fighters, that were numbered, were two and sixty thousand and seven hundred. 
And men of the lineage of Asher setted tents beside him, of which the prince was Pagiel, the son of Ocran; 
and all the host of his fighters, that were numbered, were one and forty thousand and five hundred. 
Of the lineage of the sons of Naphtali, the prince was Ahira, the son of Enan; 
and all the host of his fighters, were three and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
All that were numbered in the tents of Dan were an hundred thousand and seven and fifty thousand and six hundred; they shall go forth the last. 
This is the number of the sons of Israel, by the houses of their kindreds, and by companies of the host parted, six hundred thousand and three thousand five hundred and fifty. 
Soothly the deacons were not numbered among the sons of Israel; for God commanded so to Moses. 
And the sons of Israel did by all things which the Lord commanded; they setted tents by their companies, and they went forth by the meines, and houses of their fathers. 
