AMOS.
Chapter 7.
The Lord God showed these things to me; and lo! a maker of locusts in the beginning of burgeoning things of eventide rain, and lo! eventide rain after the clipper of the king. 
And it was done, when he had ended for to eat the herb of earth, I said, Lord God, I beseech, be thou merciful; who shall raise Jacob, for he is little? 
The Lord had mercy on this thing; It shall not be, said the Lord God. 
The Lord God showed to me these things; and lo! the Lord God shall call doom to fire, and it shall devour much depth of water, and it ate altogether a part. 
And I said, Lord God, I beseech, rest thou; who shall raise Jacob, for he is little? 
The Lord had mercy on this thing; But also and this thing shall not be, said the Lord God. 
The Lord God showed to me these things; and lo! the Lord standing on a wall pargeted, or plastered, and in the hand of him was a trowel of a mason. 
And the Lord said to me, What seest thou, Amos? And I said, A trowel of a mason. And the Lord said, Lo! I shall put a trowel in the middle of my people Israel; I shall no more put to, for to over-lead it or him; 
and the high things of idol shall be destroyed, and the hallowings of Israel shall be desolate; and I shall rise on the house of Jeroboam by sword. 
And Amaziah, priest of Bethel, sent to Jeroboam, king of Israel, and said, Amos rebelled against thee, in the middle of the house of Israel; the land may not sustain all his words. 
For Amos saith these things, Jeroboam shall die by sword, and Israel taken captive shall pass from his land. 
And Amaziah said to Amos, Thou that seest, go; flee thou into the land of Judah, and eat thou there thy bread; and there thou shalt prophesy. 
And thou shalt no more put to, that thou prophesy in Bethel, for it is the hallowing of the king, and is the house of the realm. 
And Amos answered, and said to Amaziah, I am not a prophet, and I am not the son of a prophet; but an herder of neat I am, and drawing up sycamores. 
And the Lord took me, when I followed the flock; and the Lord said to me, Go, and prophesy thou to my people Israel. 
And now hear thou the word of the Lord. Thou sayest, Thou shalt not prophesy on Israel, and thou shalt not drop thy word on the house of idol or of Isaac. 
For this thing the Lord saith these things, Thy wife shall do fornication in the city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by sword, and thy land shall be meted with a little cord; and thou shalt die in a polluted land, and Israel taken captive shall pass from his land. 
