GENESIS.
Chapter 12.
Forsooth the Lord said to Abram, Go thou out of thy land, and of thy kindred, and of the house of thy father, and come thou into the land which I shall show to thee; 
and I shall make thee into a great folk, and I shall bless thee, and I shall magnify thy name, and thou shalt be blessed; 
I shall bless them that bless thee, and I shall curse them that curse thee; and all kindreds of the earth shall be blessed in thee. 
And so Abram went out, as the Lord commanded him, and Lot went with him. Abram was five and seventy years when he went out of Haran. 
And he took Sarai, his wife, and Lot, the son of his brother, and all the substance which they had in possession, and the men which they had begotten in Haran; and they went out that they should go into the land of Canaan. And when they came into it, 
Abram passed through the land till to the place of Shechem, and till to the noble valley. Forsooth Canaanite was then in the land. 
Soothly the Lord appeared to Abram, and said to him, I shall give this land to thy seed. And Abram built there an altar to the Lord, that appeared to him. 
And from thence he passed forth to the hill or the mount of Bethel, that was against the east, and setted there his tabernacle, having Bethel from the west, and Hai from the east. And he builded also there an altar to the Lord, and inwardly called his name. 
And Abram went going, and going forth over to the south. 
Soothly hunger was made in the land; and Abram went down into Egypt, to be a pilgrim there, for hunger had the mastery in the land. 
And when he was nigh to enter into Egypt, he said to Sarai, his wife, I know that thou art a fair woman, 
and that when Egyptians shall see thee, they shall say, It is his wife, and they shall slay me, and keep thee. 
Therefore, I beseech thee, say that thou art my sister, that it be well to me for thee, and that my life live for the love of thee. 
And so when Abram had entered into Egypt, Egyptians saw the woman, that she was full fair; 
and the princes told to Pharaoh, and praised her with him; and the woman was taken up into the house of Pharaoh. 
Forsooth they used well Abram for her; and sheep, and oxen, and asses, and servants, and servantesses, and she-asses, and camels were given to him. 
Forsooth the Lord beat Pharaoh and his house with most vengeances for Sarai, the wife of Abram. 
And Pharaoh called Abram, and said to him, What is it that thou hast done to me? why showedest thou not to me that she was thy wife? 
for what cause saidest thou, that she was thy sister, that I should take her into wife to me? Now therefore lo! thy wife; take thou her, and go. 
And Pharaoh commanded to men on Abram, and they led forth him, and his wife, and all things that he had. 
