PROVERBS.
Chapter 19.
Better is a poor man, that goeth in his simpleness, than a rich man biting his lips, and unwise. 
Where is not knowing of the soul, there is not good; and he that is hasty, in feet hurteth or stumbleth. 
The folly of a man deceiveth his steps; and he burneth in his soul against God. 
Riches increase full many friends; forsooth also they be departed from a poor man, which he had. 
A false witness shall not be unpunished; and he that speaketh leasings, shall not escape. 
Many men honour the person of a mighty man; and they be friends of him that dealeth gifts. 
The brethren of a poor man hate him; furthermore and the friends went away far from him. He that pursueth or followeth words only, shall have nothing; 
but he that holdeth stably the mind, loveth his soul, and the keeper of prudence shall find goods. 
A false witness shall not be unpunished; and he that speaketh leasings, shall perish. 
Delights become not a fool; neither it becometh a servant to be lord of princes. 
The teaching of a man is known by patience; and his glory is to pass over wicked things. 
As the gnashing of a lion, so and the ire of the king; and as dew on herb, so and the gladness of the king. 
The sorrow of the father is a fond or foolish son; and roofs dropping continually is a woman full of chiding. 
Houses and riches be given of father and mother; but a prudent wife is given properly of the Lord. 
Sloth bringeth in sleep; and a negligent soul shall have hunger. 
He that keepeth the commandment of God, keepeth his soul; but he that chargeth not or despiseth his way, shall be slain. 
He that hath mercy on a poor man, lendeth to the Lord; and he shall yield his while to him. 
Teach thy son, and despair thou not; but set or put thou not thy soul to the slaying of him. 
Forsooth he that is unpatient, shall suffer harm; and when he hath ravished, he shall lay to another thing. 
Hear thou counsel, and take thou doctrine; that thou be wise in thy last things. 
Many thoughts there be in the heart of a man; but the will of the Lord shall dwell. 
A needy man is merciful; and better is a poor just or rightwise man, than a man liar. 
Dread of the Lord leadeth to life; and he that dreadeth God shall dwell in plenty, without visiting of the worst or without full evil visiting. 
A slow man hideth his hand under his armpit, and putteth it not to his mouth. 
When a man full of pestilence is beaten, a fool shall be the wiser. If thou blamest a wise man, he shall understand teaching. 
He that tormenteth his father, and fleeth from his mother, shall be full of evil fame, and shall be cursed. 
Son, cease thou not to hear teaching; and know thou the words of knowing. 
A wicked witness scorneth doom; and the mouth of unpious men devoureth wickedness. 
Dooms be made ready to scorners; and hammers smiting be made ready to the bodies of fools. 
