ISAIAH.
Chapter 23.
The burden of Tyre. Ye ships of the sea, yell, for the house is destroyed, from whence comfort was wont to come; from the land of Chittim, and it was showed to them. 
Be ye still, that dwell in the isle, the merchants of Sidon; the men passing over the sea filled thee in many waters; 
the seed of Nile is the harvest, the flood is the corn thereof, and it is made the merchandise of heathen men. 
Thou, Sidon, be ashamed, said the sea, the strength of the sea, and said, I travailed not of child, and I childed not, and I nourished not young men, and I brought not fully virgins to increasing. 
When it shall be heard in Egypt, they shall make sorrow, when they hear of Tyre. 
Pass ye the seas; yell ye, that dwell in the isle. 
Whether this city is not yours, that had glory from eld days in his eldness? the feet thereof shall lead it a far, to go in pilgrimage. 
Who thought this thing on Tyre, sometime crowned, whose merchants were princes, the sellers of merchandise thereof were noble men of the earth? 
The Lord of hosts thought this thing, that he should draw down the pride of all glory, and that he should bring to shame all the noble men of earth. 
Thou daughter of the sea, pass over thy land as a flood; a girdle is no more to thee. 
It stretched forth his hand above the sea, and troubled realms. The Lord sent against Canaan, for to all-break the strong men thereof; 
and he said, Thou maiden, the daughter of Sidon, that sufferest challenge, shalt no more add, that thou have glory. Rise thou, and pass over the sea into Chittim; there also no rest shall be to thee. 
Lo! the land of Chaldees, such a people was not; Assur founded that Tyre; they led over into captivity the strong men thereof; they under mined the houses thereof; they setted or put it into falling. 
Yell, ye ships of the sea, for your strength be destroyed. 
And it shall be, in that day, thou, Tyre, shalt be in forgetting by seventy years, as the days of one king; but after seventy years, as the song of a whore shall be to Tyre. 
Thou whore, given to forgetting, take an harp, compass the city; sing thou well, use thou oft a song, that mind be of thee. 
And it shall be, after seventy years, the Lord shall visit Tyre, and shall bring it again to his hire; and again it shall be, when it shall do fornication with all the realms of the earth, on the face of the earth. 
And the merchandises thereof and the meeds thereof shall be hallowed to the Lord; they shall not be hid, neither shall be laid up; for why the merchandise thereof shall be to them that dwell before the Lord, that they eat to fullness, and be clothed till to eldness or oldness. 
