ROMANS.
Chapter 10.
Brethren, the will of mine heart and my beseeching is made to God for them into health. 
But I bear witnessing to them, that they have the love of God, but not after knowing. 
For they unknowing God’s right-wiseness, and seeking to make steadfast their own rightwiseness, be not subject to the rightwiseness of God. 
For the end of the law is Christ, to rightwiseness to each man that believeth. 
For Moses wrote, For the man that shall do rightwiseness that is of the law, shall live in it. 
But the rightwiseness that is of belief, saith thus, Say thou not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? that is to say, to lead down Christ; 
or who shall go down into hell? that is, to again-call Christ from death. +or who shall go down into deep-ness, or into depth? that is, to again-call Christ from the dead. 
But what saith the scripture? The word is nigh in thy mouth, and in thine heart; this is the word of belief, which we preach. 
That if thou acknowledge in thy mouth the Lord Jesus Christ, and believest in thine heart, that God raised him from death, thou shalt be safe. 
For by heart me or men believeth to rightwiseness, but by mouth acknowledging is made to health. 
For why the scripture saith, Each that believeth in him, shall not be confounded. 
And there is no distinction of Jew and of Greek; for the same Lord of all is rich into all, that inwardly call him. 
For each man, whoever shall inwardly call the name of the Lord, shall be safe. 
How then shall they inwardly call him, into whom they have not believed? or how shall they believe to him, whom they have not heard? How shall they hear, without a preacher? 
and how shall they preach, but they be sent? As it is written, How fair be the feet of them that preach or evangelize peace, of them that preach good things. 
But not all men obey to the gospel. For Isaiah saith, Lord, who believed to our hearing? 
Therefore faith is of hearing or by hearing, but hearing by the word of Christ. 
But I say, Whether they heard not? Yes, soothly, the sound of them went out into all the earth, and their words into the ends of the world. 
But I say, Whether Israel knew not? First Moses saith, I shall lead you to envy, that ye be no folk or into not a folk; that ye be an unwise folk, I shall send you into wrath. 
And Isaiah is bold, and saith, I am found of men that seek me not; openly I appeared to them, that asked not me. 
But to Israel he saith, All day I stretched out mine hands to a people that believed not to me, but gainsaid me. 
