2ND SAMUEL.
Chapter 22.
Soothly David spake to the Lord the words of this song, in the day in which the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul. 
And David said, The Lord is my stone, and my strength or my strong-hold, and my saviour; 
my God, my strength, I shall hope into him; my shield, and the horn of mine health, my raiser up, and my refuge; my saviour, thou shalt deliver me from wickedness, that is, hast delivered. 
I shall inwardly call the Lord, worthy to be praised; and I shall be safe from mine enemies. 
For the sorrows of death com-passed me; the strands or streams of Belial made me afeared. 
The cords of hell encompassed me; the snares of death have gone before me. 
In tribulation I shall call thee, Lord, that is, I have called thee, Lord, and I shall cry to my God; and he heard from his holy temple my voice, and my cry shall come to his ears. 
The earth was moved, and trembled; the foundaments of hills were smitten and shaken together, for the Lord was wroth to them. 
Smoke went up from his nostrils, and fire of his mouth shall devour; coals were kindled of it. 
And he bowed heavens, and came down; and mist under his feet. 
And he went upon cherubim, and flew; and he slid up on the pens or wings of the wind. 
He put darkness a hiding place in his compass, and riddled or winnowed waters from the clouds of heavens; 
for brightness in his sight coals of fire were kindled. 
The Lord shall thunder from heavens; and the high God shall give his voice. 
He sent his arrows, and scattered them; and sent lightnings, and wasted them. 
And the sheddings out of the sea appeared, and the foundaments of the world were showed; from the blaming of the Lord, from the breathing of the spirit of his strong vengeance. 
He sent from heaven, and took me; and drew me out of many waters. 
He delivered me from my might-iest enemy, and from them that hated me; for they were stronger than I. 
They came before me in the day of my tormenting; and the Lord was made my steadfastness. 
And he led me out into largeness, and he delivered me; for I pleased him. 
The Lord shall yield to me after my rightwiseness; and he shall yield to me after the cleanness of mine hands. 
For I have kept the ways of the Lord; and I did not turn wickedly from my God. 
For all his dooms were in my sight; and I did not away from me his behests. 
And I shall be perfect with him; and I shall keep me from my wicked-ness. 
And the Lord shall restore to me after my rightwiseness; and after the cleanness of mine hands in the sight of his eyes. 
With the holy thou shalt be holy, and with the strong, that is, to suffer adversities patiently, thou shalt be perfect; 
and with a chosen man thou shalt be chosen, and with a wayward man thou shalt be made wayward. 
And thou shalt make safe a poor people; and with thine eyes thou shalt make low them that be high. 
For thou, Lord, art my lantern, and thou, Lord, shalt lighten my darkness. 
For I girded, that is, made ready to battle, shall run in thee, that is, in thy strength; and in my God I shall skip over the wall. 
God, his way is without wem; the speech of the Lord is examined with fire, that is, is pure and clean as metal proved in the furnace; he is a shield of all men hoping in him. 
For who is God, except the Lord; and who is strong, except our God? 
God, that hath girded me with strength, and hath made plane my perfect way; 
and he hath made even my feet with harts’, and hath set me upon mine high things; 
and he taught mine hands to battle, and a brazen bow was granted to mine arms. 
Thou hast given to me the shield of thine health; and thy mildness hath multiplied me. 
Thou shalt alarge my steps under me; and mine heels shall not fail. 
I shall pursue mine enemies, and I shall all-brake them; and I shall not turn again, till I waste them. 
I shall waste them, and I shall break them, that they rise not; they shall fall under my feet. 
Thou hast girded me with strength to battle; thou hast bowed under me them that stood against me. 
Thou hast given mine enemies’ aback to me, men hating me; and I shall destroy them. 
They shall cry, that is, to idols either to men’s help, and none shall be that shall save them; they shall cry to the Lord, and he shall not hear them. 
I shall do away them as the dust of the earth; I shall pound them, and I shall do them away as the clay, or the fen, of streets. 
Thou shalt save me from the against-sayings of my people; thou shalt keep me into the head of folks; the people, whom I know not, shall serve me. 
Alien sons shall not against-stand me; by hearing of the ear, they shall obey to me. 
Alien sons floated away; and they shall be drawn together in their enclosings. 
The Lord liveth, and my God is blessed; and the strong God of mine health shall be enhanced. 
God, that givest vengeances to me, and hast cast down peoples under me. 
Which leadest me out from mine enemies, and raisest me from men against-standing me; thou shalt deliver me from the wicked man. 
Therefore, Lord, I shall acknowl-edge to thee in heathen men; and I shall sing to thy name. 
That he maketh great the healths of his king; and doeth mercy to his christ, David, and to his seed till into without end. 
