SONG OF SONGS.
Chapter 5.
My sister spousess, come thou into my garden. I have reaped my myrrh, with my sweet smelling spices; I have eaten an honeycomb, with mine honey; I have drunk my wine, with my milk. Friends, eat ye, and drink; and most dear friends, be ye filled greatly. 
I sleep, and mine heart waketh. The voice of my darling knocking; my sister, my love, my culver, my spousess unwemmed, open thou to me; for mine head is full of dew, and mine hairs be full of the drops of nights. 
I have unclothed me of my coat; how shall I be clothed therein? I have washed my feet; how shall I defoul them? 
My darling put his hand by an hole in the door; and my womb trembled at the touching thereof. 
I rose, for to open to my darling; mine hands dropped myrrh, and my fingers were full of myrrh most proved. 
I opened the wicket of my door to my darling; and he had bowed away, and had passed forth. My soul was melted, as the darling spake; I sought, and I found not him; I called, and he answered not to me. 
The keepers that compassed the city found me; they smote me, and wounded me; the keepers of the walls took away my mantle. 
Ye daughters of Jerusalem, I beseech you by an holy thing, if ye have found my darling, that ye tell to him, that I am sick for love. 
A! thou fairest of women, of what manner condition is thy darling of the beloved? of what manner condition is thy darling of a darling? for thou hast so besought us by an holy thing. 
My darling is white and ruddy; chosen of thousands. 
His head is best gold; his hairs be as the boughs of palm trees, and be black as a crow. 
His eyes be as culvers on the strands of waters, that be washed in milk, and sit beside the fullest rivers. 
His cheeks be as gardens of sweet smelling spices, set of ointment makers; his lips be as lilies, dropping down the best myrrh. 
His hands be able to turn about, golden, and full of jacinths; his womb is of ivory, adorned with sapphires. 
His hips be pillars of marble, that be founded on foundaments of gold; his shapeliness is as the Lebanon, he is chosen as cedars. 
His throat is most sweet, and he is all desirable. Ye daughters of Jerusalem, such is my darling, and this is my friend. 
