MARK.
Chapter 12.
And Jesus began to speak to them in parables. A man planted a vineyard, and set an hedge about it, and delved a pit, and builded a tower, and hired it to earth-tillers, and went forth in pilgrimage. 
And he sent to the earth-tillers in time a servant, to receive of the earth-tillers of the fruit of the vineyard. 
And they took him, and beat him, and left him void. 
And again he sent to them another servant, and they wounded him in the head, and tormented him or punished him with chidings, or reprovings. 
And again he sent another, and they slew him, and others more, beating some, and slaying others or soothly they killed others. 
But yet he had a most dearworthy son, and he sent him last to them, and said, Peradventure they shall dread with reverence my son. 
But the earth-tillers said together or Forsooth the tenants said to them-selves, This is the heir; come ye, slay we him, and the heritage shall be ours. 
And they took him, and killed him, and casted him out without the vineyard. 
Then what shall the lord of the vineyard do? He shall come, and lose the earth-tillers or the tenants, and give the vineyard to others. 
Whether ye have not read this scripture, The stone which the builders have despised, this is made into the head of the corner? 
This thing is done of the Lord, and it is wonderful in our eyes. 
And they sought to hold him, and they dreaded the people; for they knew that to them he said this parable; and they left him, and they went away. 
And they sent to him some of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, to take him in word. 
Which came, and said to him, Master, we know that thou art sooth-fast, and reckest not of any man; for neither thou beholdest into the face of any man, but thou teachest the way of God in truth. Is it leaveful that tribute be given to the emperor, or we shall not give? 
Which witting their privy false-ness, said to them, What tempt ye me, hypocrites? bring ye to me a penny, that I see. 
And they brought to him. And he said to them, Whose is this image, and the writing above? And they say to him, The emperor’s or Caesar’s. 
And Jesus answered and said to them, Then yield ye to the emperor or Caesar those things that be the emperor’s or of Caesar; and to God those things that be of God. And they wondered of him. 
And Sadducees, that say that there is no resurrection, came to him, and asked him, and said, 
Master, Moses wrote to us, that if the brother of a man were dead, and left his wife, and have no sons, his brother take his wife, and raise up seed to his brother. 
Then seven brethren there were; and the first took a wife, and died, and left no seed. 
And the second took her, and died, and neither he left seed. And the third also. 
And in like manner the seven took her, and left no seed. And the woman the last of all died. 
Then in the resurrection, when they shall rise again, whose wife of these shall she be? for seven had her to wife. 
And Jesus answered, and said to them, Whether ye err not therefore, that ye know not the scriptures, neither the virtue of God? 
For when they shall rise again from death, neither they shall wed, nor shall be wedded, but they shall be as angels of God in heavens or in heaven. 
And of dead men, that they rise again, have ye not read in the book of Moses, on the bush, how God spake to him, and said, I am God of Abraham, and God of Isaac, and God of Jacob? 
He is not God of dead men, but of living men; therefore ye err much. 
And one of the scribes, that had heard them disputing together, came nigh, and saw that Jesus had well-answered them or had answered them well, and asked him, which was the first commandment of all. 
And Jesus answered to him, That the first commandment of all is, Hear thou, Israel, thy Lord God is one God or the Lord thy God is one God; 
and thou shalt love thy Lord God or the Lord thy God of all thine heart, and of all thy soul, and of all thy mind, and of all thy might, or strength. This is the first command-ment. 
And the second is like to this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thy-self. There is none other command-ment greater than these. 
And the scribe said to him, Master, in truth thou hast well said; for one God is, and there is none other, except him; 
and that he be loved of all the heart, and of all the mind, and of all the understanding, and of all the soul, and of all the strength, and to love the neighbour as himself, is greater or is more, than all burnt offerings and sacrifices. 
And Jesus seeing that he had answered wisely, said to him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And then no man durst ask him more anything. 
And Jesus answered and said, teaching in the temple, How say the scribes, that Christ is the son of David? 
For David himself said in the Holy Ghost, The Lord said to my lord, Sit thou on my right half, till I put thine enemies the stool of thy feet. 
Then if David himself calleth him Lord, how then is he his son? And much people gladly heard him. 
And he said to them in his teaching, Be ye ware of scribes, that will wander or go in stoles, and be saluted in the chapping, 
and sit in synagogues in the first chairs or sit in the first chairs in synagogues, and in the first sitting places in suppers; 
which devour the houses of widows under the colour of long prayer; they shall take the longer doom, either damnation. 
And Jesus sitting against the treasury, beheld how the people cast money into the treasury; and many rich men casted many things. 
But when a poor widow was come, she cast two minutes, that is, a farthing. 
And he called together his disciples, and said to them, Truly I say to you, that this poor widow cast more than all, that cast into the treasury. 
For all they cast of that thing that they had plenty of; but this of her poverty cast all things that she had, all her livelode or lifelode. 
