PSALMS.
Chapter 71.
Lord, I hoped in thee; be I not shamed without end; 
in thy rightwiseness deliver thou me, and ravish me out. Bow down thine ear to me; and make me safe. 
Be thou to me into God a defender; and into a strengthened place, that thou make me safe. For thou art my steadfastness; and my refuge. 
My God, deliver thou me from the hand of the sinner; and from the hand of a man doing against the law, and of the wicked man. 
For thou, Lord, art my patience; Lord, thou art mine hope from my youth. 
In thee I am confirmed, that is, defended, from the womb; thou art my defender from the womb of my mother. My singing is evermore in thee; 
I am made as a great wonder to many men; and thou art a strong helper. 
My mouth be filled with praising; that I sing thy glory, all day thy great-ness. 
Cast thou not away me in the time of eld age /in the time of oldness; when my strength faileth, forsake thou not me. 
For mine enemies said of me; and they that kept my life made counsel together. 
Saying, God hath forsaken him; pursue ye, and take him; for none there is that shall deliver. 
God, be thou not made afar from me; my God, behold thou into mine help. 
Men that backbite my soul, be shamed, and fail they; and be they covered with reproof and shame, that seek evils to me. 
But I shall hope evermore; and I shall add to ever over all thy praising. 
My mouth shall tell thy rightful-ness or rightwiseness; all day thine health. For I knew not by literature, that is, by man’s teaching, but by God’s revelation, 
I shall enter into the powers of the Lord; Lord, I shall bethink on thy rightfulness or rightwiseness alone. 
God, thou hast taught me from my youth, and till to now; I shall tell out thy marvels. 
And till into eld age /into oldness, and the last age; God, forsake thou not me. Till I tell thine arm, or power, to each generation that shall come. 
Till I tell of thy might, and thy rightfulness or rightwiseness, God, till into the highest great deeds which thou hast done; God, who is like thee? 
How great tribulations, many and evil, hast thou showed to me; and thou converted, hast quickened me, and hast again-brought me again from the depths of earth. 
Thou hast multiplied thy great doing; and thou converted, hast comforted me. 
For why and I shall acknowledge to thee, thou God, thy truth in the instruments of psalm; I shall sing in an harp to thee, that art the holy of Israel. 
My lips shall make fully joy or full out joy, when I shall sing to thee; and my soul, which thou again-boughtest. 
But and my tongue shall think all day on thy rightfulness or rightwise-ness; when they shall be shamed and ashamed, that seek evils to me. 
