ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 32.
They have set thee a governor, do not thou be enhanced; be thou among them as one of them. Have thou care of them, and so behold thou; and when all thy care is filled, sit thou to meat or rest. 
That thou be glad for them, and take the ornament of grace; and get crown, and dignity of congregation. 
Speak thou, the greater man in birth; for why the word of him that loveth knowing become thee first; and hinder thou not music. 
Where hearing is not, shed or pour thou not out a word; and do not thou be enhanced uncovenably in thy wisdom. 
A gem of carbuncle in the ornament of gold; and comparison of musics in the feast of wine. 
As in the making or forging of gold is a signet of smaragdus, so the number of musics is in merry and measurable or temperate wine. 
Hear thou being still, and good grace shall come to thee for rever-ence. Young man, speak thou scarce-ly in thy cause, when need is. If thou art asked twice, the head have thine answer. 
In many things be thou as unknowing, and hear thou being still altogether, and asking or seek-ing. 
And presume thou not to speak in the midst of great men; and where eld or old men be, speak thou not much. 
Lightning shall go before hail, and grace shall go before shamefast-ness, and good grace shall come or fall to thee for reverence. 
And in the hour of rising, trifle thee not, that is, make thee no tarrying in arraying, either trifling of hairs, as women do; forsooth run thou before first into thine house, and there call thou thee to answer, and there play thou. 
And do thy conceits or con-ceivings, that is, perform thy good purpose conceived there, and not in sins, and in a proud word. 
On all these things, bless thou the Lord, that made thee, and filling thee greatly of all his goods. 
He that dreadeth God, shall take his teaching, or Who dreadeth God, shall take the doctrine of him; and they that wake to him, shall find blessing. 
He that seeketh the law, shall be filled thereof; and he that doeth traitorously, shall be caused to stumble therein. 
They that dread God, shall find just doom; and shall kindle rightful-ness or rightwiseness as light. 
A sinful man, that is, obstinate in sin, shall eschew blaming or shun correction; and after his will, he shall find comparison. 
A man of counsel shall not lose or destroy understanding; a man alien and proud shall not dread dreading. Yea, after that he hath done with that dread without counsel, and he shall be reproved by his pursuings or followings. 
Son, do thou nothing without counsel; and after the deed thou shalt not repent. 
Go thou not in the way of falling, and offend thou not against stones. 
Betake thou not thee to a tra-vailous way, lest thou set cause of stumbling to thy soul; 
and be thou ware of thy sons, and perceive thou or take heed of thy menials. 
In all thy work believe thou by faith of thy soul; for why this is the keeping of commandments. 
He that believeth to God, taketh heed to the commandments; and he that trusteth in him, shall not be made less, either deceived. 
