1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 3.
And I, brethren, might not speak to you as to spiritual men, but as to fleshly men; as to little children in Christ, 
I gave to you milk to drink, not meat; for ye might not yet under-stand, neither ye may now, 
for yet ye be fleshly. For while envy and strife is among you, whether ye be not fleshly, and ye go after man? 
For when some saith, I am of Paul, and another, But I am of Apollos, whether ye be not fleshly men? 
What therefore is Apollos, and what Paul? They be ministers of him, to whom ye have believed; and to each man as God hath given. 
I planted, Apollos moisted, but God gave increasing. 
Therefore neither he that planteth is anything, neither he that moisteth, but God that giveth increasing. 
And he that planteth, and he that moisteth, be one; and each shall take his own meed, after his travail. 
For we be the helpers of God; ye be the earth-tilling of God, ye be the building of God. 
After the grace of God that is given to me, as a wise master carpenter I setted the foundament; and another buildeth above. But each man see, how he buildeth above or how and what things he buildeth upon. 
For no man may set another foundament, except or besides that that is set, which is Christ Jesus. 
For if any man buildeth over or upon this foundament, gold, silver, precious stones, sticks, hay, or stubble, 
every man’s work shall be open; for the day of the Lord shall declare, for it shall be showed in fire; the fire shall prove the work of each man, what manner work it is. 
If the work of any man dwell still, which he builded above or upon, he shall receive meed. 
If any man’s work burn, he shall suffer harm, either impairing; but he shall be safe, so nevertheless as by fire. 
Know ye not, that ye be the temple of God, and the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? 
And if any man defouleth the temple of God, God shall lose him; for the temple of God is holy, which ye be. 
No man deceive himself. If any man among you is seen to be wise in this world, be he made a fool, that he be wise. 
For the wisdom of this world is folly with God; for it is written, I shall catch wise men in their fell wisdom, or subtle guile; 
and again, The Lord knoweth the thoughts of wise men, for those be vain. 
Therefore no man have glory in men. For all things be yours, 
either Paul, either Apollos, either Cephas, either the world, either life, either death, either things present, either things to coming or to come; for all things be yours, 
and ye be of Christ, and Christ is of God. 
