JOB.
Chapter 11.
Then Zophar the Naamathite answered, and said, 
Whether he, that speaketh many things, shall not also hear? either a man full of words shall be made just or justified? 
Shall men be still to thee alone? and when thou hast scorned other men, shalt thou not be overcome of any man? 
For thou saidest, My word is clean, and I am clean in thy sight. 
And I would, that God spake with thee, and opened his lips to thee; 
to show to thee the privates of wisdom, and that his law is manyfold, and thou shouldest then understand, that thou art required of God to pay much less things, than thy wickedness deserveth. 
In hap thou shalt comprehend the steps of God, and thou shalt find Almighty God unto perfection. 
He is higher than heaven, and what shalt thou do? he is deeper than hell, and whereof shalt thou know? 
His measure is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea. 
If he destroyeth all things, either driveth them straitly into one, who shall against-say him? Either who may say to him, Why doest thou so? 
For he knoweth the vanity of men; and whether he seeing, beholdeth not wickedness? 
A vain man is raised into pride; and he guesseth himself born free, as the colt of a wild ass. 
But thou hast made steadfast thine heart, and hast spread abroad thine hands to him. 
If thou doest away from thee the wickedness, that is in thine hand, and if unrightwiseness dwelleth not in thy tabernacle, 
then thou shalt raise up thy face without wem, and thou shalt be steadfast, and thou shalt not dread. 
And thou shalt forget thy wretched-ness, and thou shalt not think of it, as of waters that have passed by. 
And as midday shining, it shall raise to thee at eventide; and when thou guessest thee to be wasted, thou shalt rise up as the day star. 
And thou shalt have trust, while hope shall be set forth to thee; and thou buried shalt sleep securely. 
Thou shalt rest, and none shall be that shall make thee afeared; and full many men shall beseech thy face. 
But the eyes of wicked men shall fail; and succor shall perish from them, and the hope of them shall be abomination of soul. 
