EZEKIEL.
Chapter 43.
And he led me out to the gate, that beheld to the east way. 
And lo! the glory of God of Israel entered by the east way; and a voice was to it, as the voice of many waters, and the earth shined of the majesty of him. 
And I saw a vision, by the like-ness which I had seen, when he came to destroy the city; and the likeness was like the beholding which I had seen beside the flood Chebar. And I fell down on my face, 
and the majesty of the Lord entered into the temple by the way of the gate that beheld to the east. 
And the Spirit raised me, and led me into the inner foreyard; and lo! the house of the Lord was filled with the glory of the Lord. 
And I heard one speaking to me out of the house. And the man that stood beside me, 
said to me, Thou, son of man, this is the place of my seat, and the place of the steps of my feet, where I dwell in the midst of the sons of Israel without end; and the house of Israel shall no more defoul mine holy name, they, and the kings of them, in their fornications, and in the fallings of their kings, and in their high places. 
Which made their threshold beside my threshold, and their posts beside my posts, and a wall was betwixt me and them; and they defouled mine holy name in abominations which they did; wherefore I wasted them in my wrath. 
Now therefore put they away far their fornication, and the fallings of their kings from me; and I shall dwell ever in the midst of them. 
But thou, son of man, show the temple to the house of Israel, and be they ashamed of their wickednesses; and mete they the building, 
and be they ashamed of all things which they did. Thou shalt show to them, and thou shalt write before the eyes of them the figure of the house, and of the building thereof; the out-goings, and the enterings, and all the describings thereof, and all the com-mandments thereof, and all the order thereof, and all the laws thereof; that they keep all the describings thereof, and commandments thereof, and do those or them. 
This is the law of the house, in the highness of the hill or the mount; all the coasts thereof in compass is the holy of holy things; therefore this is the law of the house. 
Forsooth these be the measures of the altar, in a veriest cubit, that had a cubit and a span; in the bosom there-of was a cubit in length, and a cubit in breadth; and the end thereof till to the brink, and one span in compass; also this was the ditch of the altar. 
And from the bosom of the earth till to the last height were two cubits, and the breadth of one cubit; and from the less height of the pedestal, till to the greater height of the pedestal, were four cubits, and the breadth was of one cubit; 
forsooth that ariel, that is, the higher part of the altar, was of four cubits; and from the altar till to above were four horns. 
And the altar of twelve cubits in length was four-cornered with even sides, by twelve cubits of breadth. 
And the height of fourteen cubits of length was by fourteen cubits of breadth, in four corners thereof. And a crown of half a cubit was in the compass thereof, and the bosom thereof was of one cubit by compass; forsooth the degrees thereof were turned to the east. 
And he said to me, Thou, son of man, the Lord God saith these things, These be the customs of the altar, in whatever day it is made, that men offer on it burnt sacrifice, and blood be shed out. 
And thou shalt give to priests and deacons that be of the seed of Zadok, that nigh to me, saith the Lord God, that they offer to me a calf of the drove for sin. 
And thou shalt take of the blood thereof, and shalt put on four horns thereof, and on four corners of the height, and on the crown in compass; and thou shalt cleanse it, and fully make clean. 
And thou shalt take the calf which is offered for sin, and thou shalt burn it in a separated place of the house, without the saintuary. 
And in the second day thou shalt offer a buck of goats, which is with-out wem, for sin; and they shall cleanse the altar, as they cleansed it in the calf. 
And when thou hast ful filled that cleansing, thou shalt offer a calf of the drove, which calf is without wem, and a wether without wem of the flock. 
And thou shalt offer those or them in the sight of the Lord; and priests shall put salt on those or them, and shall offer those or them into burnt sacrifice to the Lord. 
By seven days, thou shalt make ready a buck of goats for sin, each day; and they shall offer a calf of the drove, and a wether unwemmed of sheep. 
By seven days they shall fully cleanse the altar, and shall make it clean, and they shall ful fill the hand thereof. 
Forsooth when seven days be ful filled, in the eighth day and further, priests shall make on the altar your burnt sacrifices, and those things which they offer for peace; and I shall be pleased to you, saith the Lord God. 
