PSALMS.
Chapter 40.
For victory, the psalm of David. I abiding abode the Lord; and he gave attention to me. And he heard my prayers; 
and he led out me from the pit of wretchedness, and from the filth of dregs. And he ordained my feet on a stone; and he dressed my goings. 
And he sent into my mouth a new song; a song to our God. Many men shall see, and dread; and shall hope in the Lord. 
Blessed is the man, of whom the name of the Lord is his hope; and he beheld not into vanities, and into false vengeances. 
My Lord God, thou hast made thy marvels many; and in thy thoughts none is, that is like thee toward us. I told and I spake; and they be multiplied above number. 
Thou wouldest or desiredest not sacrifice and offering; but thou madest perfectly ears to me. Thou askedest not burnt sacrifice, and other sacrifice for sin; 
then I said, Lo! I come. In the head of the book it is written of me, 
that I should do thy will; my God, I would also to do it; and thy law in the midst of mine heart. 
I told thy rightfulness or rightwise-ness in a great church; lo! I shall not refrain my lips, Lord, thou knewest. 
I hid not thy rightfulness or right-wiseness in mine heart; I said thy truth and thine health. I hid not thy mercy, and thy truth, from a much council. 
But thou, Lord, make not far thy merciful doings from me; thy mercy and truth evermore take me up. 
For why evils, of which is no number, encompassed me; my wicked-nesses have taken me, and I might not, that I should see. Those or They be multiplied above the hairs of mine head; and mine heart forsook me. 
Lord, please it to thee, that thou deliver me; Lord, behold thou to help me. 
Be they shamed, and ashamed together; that seek my life, to take away it. Be they turned aback, and be they shamed or ashamed; that will or desire evils to me. 
Bear they their confusion anon; that say to me, Well! well! in scorn. 
All men that seek thee, be fully joyful or full out joy, and be glad in thee; and say they, that love thine health, The Lord be magnified ever-more. 
Forsooth I am a beggar and poor; the Lord is busy of me. Thou art mine helper and my defender; my God, tarry thou not. 
