MICAH.
Chapter 5.
Now thou, daughter of a thief, shalt be destroyed; they putted on us besieging, in a rod they shall smite the cheek of the judge of Israel. 
And thou, Bethlehem Ephratah, art little in the thousands of Judah; he that is the lordly governor in Israel shall go out of thee to me; and the going out of him is from the beginning, from days of everlastingness. 
For this thing he shall give them up, till to the time in which the woman travailing of child shall bear child, and the remnants of his brethren shall be turned again to the sons of Israel. 
And he shall stand, and shall feed in the strength of the Lord, in the height of the name of his Lord God; and they shall be converted, for now he shall be magnified till to the ends of all earth. 
And this shall be peace, when Assyrian shall come into our land, and when he shall tread in our houses; and we shall raise on him seven shepherds, and eight primates men, either the first in dignity. 
And they shall waste the land of Assur by sword, and the land of Nimrod by spears of him; and he shall deliver us from Assur, when he shall come into our land, and when he shall tread in our coasts. 
And remnants of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples, as dew of the Lord, and as drops on herb, which abideth not man, and shall not abide the sons of men. 
And remnants of Jacob shall be in heathen men, in the middle of many peoples, as a lion among beasts of the woods, and as a whelp of a lion roaring in flocks of sheep; and when he passeth, and defouleth, and taketh, there is not that shall deliver. 
And thine hand shall be raised on thine enemies, and all thine enemies shall perish. 
And it shall be, in that day, saith the Lord, I shall take away thine horses from the middle of thee, and I shall destroy thy four-horsed carts. 
And I shall lose the cities of thy land, and I shall destroy all thy strongholds, either wardings; 
and I shall do away witchcrafts from thine hand, and divinations, either tellings by devil’s craft, shall not be in thee. 
And I shall make for to perish thy graven images, and I shall break altogether from the middle of thee thine images, and thou shalt no more worship the works of thine hands. 
And I shall draw out of the midst of thee thy woods dedicated to idols, and I shall all-break thy cities. 
And I shall make in wrath and indignation vengeance in all folks, which heard not. 
