EXODUS.
Chapter 8.
Also the Lord said to Moses, Enter thou to Pharaoh, and thou shalt say to him, The Lord saith these things, Deliver thou my people, that it make sacrifice to me; 
soothly if thou wilt not deliver, lo! I shall smite all thy terms, or coasts, with paddocks or frogs; 
and the flood shall boil out paddocks or frogs, that shall go up, and enter into thine house, and into the closet of thy bed, and on thy bed, and into the houses of thy servants, and into thy people, and into thine ovens, and into the remnants of thy meats; 
and the paddocks or frogs shall enter to thee, and to thy people, and to all thy servants. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Say thou to Aaron, Hold forth thine hand on the floods, and on the streams, and on the marshes; and bring out paddocks on the land of Egypt. 
And Aaron held forth the hand on the waters of Egypt; and paddocks went up, and covered the land of Egypt. 
Forsooth and the witches did in like manner by their enchantments; and they brought forth paddocks or frogs on the land of Egypt. 
Forsooth Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron, and said to them, Pray ye the Lord, that he do away the paddocks or frogs from me, and from my people; and I shall deliver the people, that it make sacrifice to the Lord. 
And Moses said to Pharaoh, Ordain thou a time to me, when I shall pray for thee, and for thy servants, and for thy people, that the paddocks be driven away from thee, and from thine houses, and from thy servants, and from thy people; and they dwell only in the flood. 
And he answered, Tomorrow. And Moses said, I shall do by thy word, that thou know, that none is as our Lord God; 
and the paddocks shall go away from thee, and from thine houses, and from thy children, and from thy servants, and from thy people; and they shall dwell only in the flood. 
And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh. And Moses cried to the Lord, for the promise of paddocks or frogs, which he had said to Pharaoh. 
And the Lord did by the word of Moses; and the paddocks or frogs were dead from the houses, and from the towns, and from the fields; 
and they gathered them together into great heaps without number, and the land was rotten, or corrupted with stink, or the earth stank. 
Soothly Pharaoh saw that rest was given, and he made grievous his heart, and he heard not them, as the Lord commanded. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Speak thou to Aaron, Hold forth thy rod, and smite the dust of the earth, and little flies, or gnats, be in all the land of Egypt. 
And they did so; and Aaron held forth the hand, and held the rod, and smote the dust of the earth; and gnats were made in men, and in work beasts; all the dust of the earth was turned into gnats by all the land of Egypt. 
And the witches did in like manner by their enchantments, that they should bring forth gnats, and they might not; and gnats were as well in men as in work beasts. 
And the witches said to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. And the heart of Pharaoh was made hard, and he heard not them, as the Lord commanded. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Rise thou early, and stand before Pharaoh, for he shall go out to the waters; and thou shalt say to him, The Lord saith these things, Deliver thou my people, that it make sacrifice to me; 
that if thou wilt not deliver the people, lo! I shall send into thee, and into thy servants, and into thy people, and into thine houses, all the kinds of flies; and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full-filled with flies of diverse kinds, and all the land in which they shall be. 
And in that day I shall make wonderful the land of Goshen, in which my people is, that flies be not there; and that thou know that I am the Lord in the midst of the earth; 
and I shall set parting betwixt my people and thy people; this sign shall be tomorrow. 
And the Lord did so. And a most grievous fly, that is, a multitude of flies, came into the house of Pharaoh, and into the houses of his servants, and into all the land of Egypt; and the land was corrupted of such flies. 
And Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron, and said to them, Go ye, make ye sacrifice to the Lord your God, in this land. 
And Moses said, It may not be done so, for why shall we offer to the Lord our God the abominations of Egyptians; that if we shall slay before the Egyptians those things which they worship, they shall throw us down with stones. 
We shall go the way of three days into wilderness, and we shall make sacrifice to our Lord God, as he commanded us. 
And Pharaoh said, I shall deliver you, that ye make sacrifice to the Lord your God in desert; nevertheless go ye not further; pray ye for me. 
And Moses said, I shall go out from thee, and I shall pray the Lord; and the fly, that is, the multitude of flies, shall go away from Pharaoh, and from his servants, and his people, tomorrow; nevertheless do not thou more deceive me, that thou deliver not the people to make sacrifice to the Lord. 
And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and prayed the Lord, 
the which did by the word of Moses, and took away the flies from Pharaoh, and from his servants, and from his people; none left, soothly not one. 
And the heart of Pharaoh was made hard, so that he delivered not the people, soothly neither in this time. 
