PROVERBS.
Chapter 17.
Better is a dry morsel with joy, than an house full of sacrifices with chiding. 
A wise servant shall be lord of fond or foolish sons; and he shall part heritage among brethren. 
As silver is proved by fire, and gold is proved by a chimney, so the Lord proveth hearts. 
An evil man obeyeth to a wicked tongue; and a false man obeyeth to false lips. 
He that despiseth a poor man, reproveth his maker; and he that is glad in the falling of another man, shall not be unpunished. 
The crown of eld or old men is the sons of sons; and the glory of sons is the fathers of them. 
Words well-set together beseem not a fool; and a lying lip becometh not a prince. 
A precious stone most acceptable is the abiding of him that seeketh; whither ever he turneth himself, he understandeth prudently. 
He that covereth trespass, seeketh friendships; he that rehearseth by an high word, separateth them that be knit together in peace. 
A blaming profiteth more at a prudent man, than an hundred wounds at a fool. 
Ever an evil man seeketh strives; forsooth a cruel angel shall be sent against him. 
It speedeth more to meet a female bear, when her whelps be ravished, than a fool trusting to himself in his folly. 
Evil shall not go away from the house of him, that yieldeth evils for goods. 
He that letteth out water, is the head of strives; and before that he suffereth wrong, he forsaketh doom. 
Both he that justifieth a wicked man, and he that condemneth a just or rightwise man, ever either is abominable to God. 
What profiteth it to a fool to have riches, since he may not buy wisdom? He that maketh his house high, seeketh falling; and he that escheweth to learn, shall fall into evils. 
He that is a friend, loveth in all time; and a brother is proved in anguishes. 
A fond or foolish man shall make joy with hands, when he hath promised for his friend. 
He that bethinketh discords, loveth chidings; and he that enhanceth his mouth, seeketh falling. 
He that is of wayward heart, shall not find good; and he that turneth the tongue, shall fall into evil. 
A fool is born in his shame; but neither the father shall be glad in a fool. 
A joyful soul maketh liking age; a sorrowful spirit maketh dry bones. 
A wicked man taketh gifts from the bosom, to mis-turn the paths of doom. 
Wisdom shineth in the face of a prudent man; the eyes of fools be in the ends of earth. 
A fond or foolish son is the ire or the wrath of the father, and the sorrow of the mother that bare him. 
It is not good to bring in harm to a just or rightwise man; neither to smite the prince that deemeth rightfully. 
He that measureth his words, is wise and prudent; and a learned man is of precious spirit. 
Also a fool, if he is still, shall be guessed a wise man; and, if he presseth together his lips, he is guessed an understanding man. 
