LEVITICUS.
Chapter 18.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, I am your Lord God; 
ye shall not do by the custom of the land of Egypt, in which ye dwelled; ye shall not do by the custom of the land of Canaan, to which I shall bring you in, neither ye shall go in the lawful things of them, that is, in their custom of worshipping. 
Ye shall do my dooms, and ye shall keep my behests, and ye shall go in them; I am your Lord God. 
Keep ye my laws and dooms, which a man shall do, and he shall live in those or them; I am your Lord God. 
A man shall not nigh to a nigh woman of his blood, that he show her filthhood or nakedness; I am the Lord. 
Thou shalt not discover the filth-hood of thy father, and the filthhood of thy mother; she is thy mother, thou shalt not show her filthhood. 
Thou shalt not uncover the filth-hood of the wife of thy father, for it is the filthhood of thy father. 
Thou shalt not show the filthhood of thy sister, of father, either of mother, which sister is begotten at home, that is, in wedlock, either withoutforth, that is, out of wedlock. 
Thou shalt not show the filthhood of the daughter of thy son, either of thy niece, that is, the daughter of thy daughter, for it is thy filthhood. 
Thou shalt not show the filthhood of the daughter of the wife of thy father, which she childed to thy father, and she is thy sister. 
Thou shalt not open the filthhood of thy father’s sister, for she is the flesh of thy father. 
Thou shalt not show the filthhood of the sister of thy mother, for she is the flesh of thy mother. 
Thou shalt not show the filthhood of the brother of thy father, neither thou shalt nigh to his wife, that is joined to thee by affinity. 
Thou shalt not show the filthhood of thy son’s wife, for she is the wife of thy son, neither thou shalt discover her shame; and no man take his brother’s wife. 
Thou shalt not show the filth-hood of thy brother’s wife, for it is the filthhood of thy brother. 
Thou shalt not show the filthhood of a woman, and of her daughter; thou shalt not take the daughter of her son, and the daughter of her daughter, that thou show her shame; they be the flesh of her, and such lechery is incest, that is, lechery of them that be kin. 
Thou shalt not take the sister of thy wife, to anguish of her, neither thou shalt show her filthhood, while thy wife liveth yet. 
Thou shalt not nigh to a woman that suffereth the running of blood of month, neither thou shalt show her filthhood. 
Thou shalt not do lechery with thy neighbour’s wife, neither thou shalt be defouled with meddling or mingling together of seed. 
Thou shalt not give of thy seed, that it be offered to the idol Moloch, neither thou shalt defoul the name of thy God; I am the Lord. 
Thou shalt not be meddled or mingled with a man, by lechery of a woman, for it is abomination. 
Thou shalt not do lechery with any beast, neither thou shalt be defouled with it. A woman shall not lie under a beast, neither shall be meddled or mingled therewith, that is, defouled by fleshly knowing thereof, for it is great sin. 
Be ye not defouled in all these things, in which all folks, either heathen men, be defouled, which folks I shall cast out before your sight, 
of whom the land is defouled, of which land I shall visit the great sins, that it vomit, or throw out, his dwellers. 
Keep ye my lawful things, and my dooms, that ye do not any of all these abominations, as well a man born in the land, as a comeling that is a pilgrim with you. 
For the dwellers of the land, that were before you, did all these abominations, and defouled that land. 
Therefore beware, lest it cast out vilely you in the same manner, when ye shall do such sins, as it casted out vilely the folk, that was before you. 
Each man that shall do anything of these abominations, shall perish from the midst of his people. 
Keep ye my behests; do not ye do those things, which they that were before you did, and be ye not defouled in those or them; I am your Lord God. 
