LEVITICUS.
Chapter 11.
And the Lord spake to Moses and Aaron, and said, 
Say ye to the sons of Israel, Keep ye all things which I wrote to you, that I be your God. These be the beasts, which ye shall eat, of all the living beasts of earth; 
ye shall eat all things among beasts that have the claw parted, and cheweth the cud; 
soothly whatever thing cheweth cud, and hath a claw, but parteth not it, as a camel, and other beasts, ye shall not eat it, and ye shall areckon it among unclean things. 
A coney, which cheweth cud, and parteth not the claw, is unclean; 
and an hare, for also he cheweth cud, but parteth not the claw; 
and a swine, that cheweth not the cud, though he parteth the claw. 
Ye shall not eat the flesh of these beasts, neither ye shall touch their dead bodies, for those or they be unclean to you. 
Also these things be that be engendered in waters, and it is leaveful to eat; ye shall eat all things that have fins and scales, as well in the sea, as in the fresh floods, and standing waters; 
soothly whatever thing of them that be moved and live in waters, hath not fins and scales, shall be abominable, and loathsome to you; 
and ye shall not eat the flesh of those or them, and ye shall eschew their bodies dead by themselves. 
All things in the waters that have not fins and scales, shall be polluted. 
These things be of fowls which ye shall not eat, and shall be eschewed or shunned of you; an eagle, and a gripe, and an aliet, 
and a kite, and a vulture by his kind; 
and all the kind of ravens by his likeness; 
a struthio, and a night crow, and a lari, or a coot, and a hawk by his kind; 
an owl, and a dipper, and ciconia; 
a swan, and a cormorant, and a pelican; 
a falcon, and a jay by his kind; and a lapwing, and a rearmouse, or a bat. 
All thing of fowls or insects that goeth on four feet, shall be abominable to you; 
soothly whatever thing goeth on four feet, but hath longer hips behind, by which it skippeth on the earth, ye shall eat; 
as is a bruchus, that is, the fruit of locusts before it hath wings, in his kind, and accatus, that is, the fruit of locusts when it beginneth to have wings, and ophimachus, that is, a foul enemy to serpents, and a locust, all by their kind. 
Forsooth whatever thing of birds or insects hath four feet only, it shall be abominable to you; 
and whoever toucheth their bodies dead by themselves, shall be polluted, or defouled, and shall be unclean till to eventide; 
and if it is need, that he bear any dead thing of these or them, he shall wash his clothes, and he shall be unclean till to the going down of the sun. 
Soothly each beast that hath a claw, but parteth not it, neither cheweth cud, shall be unclean; and whatever thing toucheth it, shall be defouled. 
That that goeth on hands, of all beasts that go on four feet, shall be unclean; he that toucheth their bodies dead by themselves, shall be defouled till to eventide; 
and he, that beareth such dead bodies, shall wash his clothes, and he shall be unclean till to eventide; for all these things be unclean to you. 
Also these things shall be areckoned among defouled things, of these things that be moved on earth; a weasel, and a mouse, and a crocodile, each after his kind; 
a migale, a chameleon, and a stellion, and a lacert, and a mouldwarp. 
All these be unclean; he that toucheth their bodies dead by them-selves, shall be unclean till to eventide; 
and that thing shall be defouled, on which anything of their bodies dead by themselves falleth, as well a vessel of wood, and a cloth, as skins, or pilches, either hair-shirts; and in whatever thing work is made, it shall be dipped in water, and those things shall be defouled till to eventide, and so afterward they shall be cleansed. 
Soothly a vessel of earth, in which anything of these falleth within, shall be defouled, and therefore it shall be broken. 
Each meat, that ye shall eat, shall be unclean, if water of such a vessel is poured out thereon; and each flowing thing, that is drunken of such a vessel, shall be unclean; 
and whatever thing of such dead bodies by themselves shall fall upon, it shall be unclean, whether furnaces, or kettles standing upon three feet, they shall be destroyed, and shall be unclean. 
Soothly wells and cisterns, and all the gatherings together of waters, shall be clean. He that toucheth their body dead by itself, shall be defouled. 
If it falleth upon seed, it shall not defoul the seed; 
soothly if any man sheddeth or pour out the seed with water, and afterward the water is touched with dead bodies by themselves, it shall be defouled anon. 
If a beast is dead, which it is leaveful to you to eat, he that toucheth the dead body thereof shall be unclean till to eventide; 
and he that eateth thereof anything, either beareth it, shall wash his clothes, and shall be unclean till to eventide. 
All thing that creepeth upon earth, shall be abominable, neither it shall be into meat. 
Whatever thing goeth upon the breast, and on four feet, and hath many feet, either is drawn by the earth, ye shall not eat it, for it is abominable. 
Do not ye defoul your souls, neither touch ye anything of them, lest ye be unclean; 
for I am your Lord God; be ye holy, for I am holy. Defoul ye not your souls in each creeping thing that is moved upon earth; 
for I am the Lord, that led you out of the land of Egypt, that I should be to you into God; ye shall be holy, for I am holy. 
This is the law of living beasts, and of fowls, and of each living thing that is moved in water, and creepeth in earth; 
that ye know the differences of clean thing and unclean, and that ye know what ye shall eat, and what ye owe to forsake. 
