PROVERBS.
Chapter 11.
A guileful balance is abomination with God; and an even weight is his will. 
Where pride is, there also despising shall be; but where meekness is, there also is wisdom. 
The simpleness of just or rightwise men shall dress them; and the deceiving of wayward men shall destroy them. 
Riches shall not profit in the day of vengeance; but rightfulness or rightwiseness shall deliver from death. 
The rightfulness or rightwiseness of a simple man shall dress his way; and a wicked man shall fall in his wickedness. 
The rightfulness of rightful men or The rightwiseness of right men shall deliver them; and wicked men shall be taken in their ambushings. 
When a wicked man is dead, none hope shall be further of him; and the abiding of busy men in evil shall perish. 
A just or rightwise man is delivered from anguish; and a wicked man shall be given for him. 
A feigner by mouth deceiveth his friend; but just or rightwise men shall be delivered by or with knowing. 
A city shall be enhanced in the goods of just or rightwise men; and praising shall be in the perdition of wicked men. 
A city shall be enhanced by the blessing of just or rightwise men; and it shall be destroyed by the mouth of wicked men. 
He that despiseth his friend, is needy in heart; but a prudent man shall be still. 
He that goeth guilefully, showeth privates; but he that is faithful, covereth the private matter of a friend. 
Where a governor is not, the people shall fall; but health is, where be many counsels. 
He that maketh faith, that is, obligation, for a stranger, shall be tormented with evil; but he that escheweth snares, shall be secure. 
A gracious woman shall find glory; and strong men shall have riches. 
A merciful man doeth well to his soul; but he that is cruel, casteth away, yea, kinsmen. 
A wicked man maketh unstable work; but faithful meed is to him, that soweth rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
Mercy shall make ready life; and the pursuing or the following of evil, death. 
A shrewd heart is abominable to the Lord; and his will is in them, that go simply. 
Though hand be in hand, an evil man shall not be innocent; but the seed of just or rightwise men shall be saved. 
A golden ring in the nostrils of a sow, is a woman fair and a fool. 
The desire of just or rightwise men is all good; abiding of wicked men is strong vengeance. 
Some men part their own things, and be made richer; other men ravish things, that be not theirs, and they be ever in neediness. 
A soul that blesseth, shall be made fat; and he that filleth, shall be filled also. 
He that hideth wheat, shall be cursed among the peoples; but blessing shall comeup on the heads of sellers. 
Well be he who riseth early, that seeketh good things; but he that is a searcher of evils, shall be oppressed of those or of them. 
He that trusteth in his riches, shall fall; but just or rightwise men shall burgeon as a green leaf. 
He that troubleth his house, shall have winds in possession; and he that is a fool, shall serve a wise man. 
The fruit of a rightful or rightwise man is the tree of life; and he that taketh souls, is a wise man. 
If a just or rightwise man receiveth in the earth, how much more an unfaithful man, and a sinner. 
