PSALMS.
Chapter 118.
Alleluia. Acknowledge ye to the Lord, for he is good; for his mercy is without end. 
Israel say now, for he is good; for his mercy is without end. 
The house of Aaron say now; for his mercy is without end. 
They that dread the Lord, say now; for his mercy is without end. 
Out Of tribulation I inwardly called the Lord; and the Lord heard me in largeness. 
The Lord is an helper to me; I shall not dread what man shall do to me. 
The Lord is an helper to me; and I shall despise mine enemies. 
It is better to trust in the Lord; than for to trust in man. 
It is better for to hope in the Lord; than to hope in princes. 
All folks encompassed me; and in the name of the Lord it befelled, for I am avenged on them. 
They compassing encompassed me; and in the name of the Lord, for I am avenged on them. 
They encompassed me as bees, and they burnt out as fire among thorns; and in the name of the Lord, for I am avenged on them. 
I was hurled, and turned upside-down, that I should fall down; and the Lord took me up. 
The Lord is my strength, and my praising; and he is made to me into health. 
The voice of full out joying and of health; be in the tabernacles of just or rightwise men. The right hand of the Lord hath done virtue, 
the right hand of the Lord en-hanced me; the right hand of the Lord hath done virtue. 
I shall not die, but I shall live; and I shall tell the works of the Lord. 
The Lord chastising hath chastised me; and he gave not me to death. 
Open ye to me the gates of rightfulness or rightwiseness, and I shall enter by those or them, and I shall acknowledge to the Lord; 
this gate is of the Lord, and just or rightwise men shall enter by it. 
I shall acknowledge to thee, for thou heardest me; and art made to me into health. 
The stone which the builders reproved; this is made into the head of the corner. 
This thing is made of the Lord; and it is wonderful before our eyes. 
This is the day which the Lord made; make we full out joy, and be we glad therein. 
O! Lord, make thou me safe, O! Lord, make thou well prosperity; 
blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. We blessed you of the house of the Lord; 
God is Lord, and he hath given light to us. Ordain ye a solemn day in thick peoples; till to the horns of the altar. 
Thou art my God, and I shall acknowledge to thee; thou art my God, and I shall enhance thee. I shall acknowledge to thee, for thou heardest me; and thou art made to me into health. 
Acknowledge ye to the Lord, for he is good; for his mercy is without end. 
