NUMBERS.
Chapter 10.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Make to thee two silver trumps, beaten out with hammers, by which thou mayest call together the multitude, when the tents shall be moved. 
And when thou shalt sound with trumps, all the company shall be gathered to thee at the door of the tabernacle of the bond of peace. 
If thou shalt trump with one trump, the princes and the chief men of the multitude of Israel shall come to thee; 
but if a longer, and a parted trumping of two trumps shall sound, they that be at the east coast shall move their tents first. 
Forsooth in the second sounding, and in like noise of the trump, they that dwell at the south coast shall raze their tents; and by this manner, other men shall do, when the trumps shall sound into going forth. 
Forsooth when the people shall be gathered together, simple cry of trumps shall be, and the trumps shall not sound partingly. 
The sons of Aaron, the priests, shall sound with the trumps, and this shall be a lawful thing everlasting in your generations. 
If ye shall go out of your land to battle against the enemies that fight against you, ye shall cry with trumps sounding, and the bethinking of you shall be before your Lord God, that ye be delivered from the hands of your enemies. 
If any time ye shall have a feast, and holidays, and calends, that is, the first day of the month, ye shall sing in trumps upon the burnt sacrifices, and the peaceable sacrifices, that those or they be to you into remembering of your God; I am your Lord God. 
In the second year, in the second month, in the twentieth day of the month, the cloud was raised up from the tabernacle of the bond of peace. 
And the sons of Israel went forth by their companies from the desert of Sinai; and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran. 
And the sons of Judah by their companies, of which the prince was Nahshon, the son of Amminadab, 
moved first tents, by the Lord’s commandment, made in the hand of Moses. 
In the lineage of the sons of Issachar the prince was Nethaneel, the son of Zuar. 
In the lineage of the sons of Zebulun the prince was Eliab, the son of Helon. 
And the tabernacle was taken down, which the sons of Gershon and Merari bare, and they went forth. 
And the sons of Reuben went forth by their companies and order, of which the prince was Elizur, the son of Shedeur. 
Forsooth in the lineage of the sons of Simeon the prince was Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai. 
Soothly in the lineage of the sons of Gad the prince was Eliasaph, the son of Deuel. 
And the sons of Kohath went forth, and bare the saintuary; and they raised the tabernacle till to the coming of them. 
Also the sons of Ephraim, by their companies, moved their tents, in whose host the prince was Elishama, the son of Ammihud. 
Forsooth in the lineage of the sons of Manasseh the prince was Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur. 
And in the lineage of the sons of Benjamin the duke was Abidan, the son of Gideoni. 
The sons of Dan, by their com-panies, went forth the last of all the tents, in whose host the prince was Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai. 
Soothly in the lineage of the sons of Asher the prince was Pagiel, the son of Ocran. 
And in the lineage of the sons of Naphtali the prince was Ahira, the son of Enan. 
These be the tents and the goings forth of the sons of Israel, by their companies, when they went forth. 
And Moses said to Hobab, the son of Raguel, of Midian, his ally, either father of his wife, We go forth to the place which the Lord shall give to us; come thou with us, that we do well to thee, for the Lord hath promised good things to Israel. 
To whom he answered, I shall not go with thee, but I shall turn again into my land, in which I was born. 
And Moses said, Do not thou forsake us, for thou knowest in which places we owe to set tents, and thou shalt be our leader; 
and when thou shalt come with us, whatever thing shall be best of the riches that the Lord shall give to us, we shall give to thee. 
And therefore they went forth from the hill or mount of the Lord the way of three days; and the ark of the bond of peace of the Lord went before them, by those three days, and purveyed the places of their tents. 
And the cloud of the Lord was upon, or over, them by day, when they went forth. 
And when the ark was raised, Moses said, Rise thou, Lord, and thine enemies be scattered, and they that hate thee, flee from thy face; 
forsooth when the ark was put down, he said, Lord, turn again to the multitude of the host of Israel. 
