ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 47.
After these things Nathan, the prophet, rose, in the days of David. 
And as inner fatness parted or tallow severed from the flesh, so David from the sons of Israel. 
He played with lions, as with lambs; he did in like manner with bears, as with lambs of sheep. 
Whether in his youth he killed or slew not a giant, and took away shame or reproof from the folk? In raising the hand in a stone of a sling, he casted down the full out joying of Goliath, 
where he called to help or inwardly called the Lord Almighty; and he gave in his right hand to do away a strong man in battle, and to enhance the horn of his folk. 
So he glorified him, that is, made him to be praised, in ten thousands, and he praised him in the blessings of the Lord, in offering to him the crown or a crown of glory. 
For he all-brake enemies on each side, and drew out or destroyed by the root the Philistines contrary or contrarious, unto this day; he all-brake the horn of them unto without end. 
David in each work gave ac-knowledging to holy God, and high in the word of glory, or In all work he gave acknowledging unto the Holy, and to the High in the word of glory. Of all his heart he praised God, and he loved the Lord that made him, and gave to him power or might against enemies. 
And he made singers to stand against the altar; and he made sweet motets in the sound of them. 
And he gave fairness in hal-lowings, and he adorned times, or solemnities, unto the ending of life; that they should praise the holy name of the Lord, and make large early the holiness of God. 
Christ purged the sins of him, and enhanced his horn without end; and he gave to him the testament of kings, and the seat or a seat of glory in Israel. 
After him rose a witting son; and for him he, that is, God, casted down all the power or might of their enemies. 
Solomon reigned in the days of peace, to whom God made subject all the enemies, that he should make an house in the name of God, and make ready holiness without end or into evermore, as he was learned or taught in his youth. 
And he was full-filled with wisdom as a flood is filled; and his soul uncovered the earth. 
And thou, Solomon, filledest dark figurative speeches in likenesses or in comparisons dark proverbs; 
and thy name was published to isles afar, and thou were loved in thy peace. 
Lands, that is, men dwelling in those lands, wondered in songs, and in proverbs, and in likenesses or comparisons, and interpretings, either expositions; 
and in the name of the Lord, to whom the surname is God of Israel or to whom is the surname God of Israel. Thou gatheredest together gold as latten, and thou filledest silver as lead. 
And thou bowedest thy thighs to women; thou haddest power in thy body to fill the lust of thy body. 
Thou hast given a wem in thy glory, and madest unholy or cursedest thy seed, to bring in wrathfulness to thy children, and thy folly in other men; 
that thou shouldest make the realm parted into twain or the empire parted on two, and of Ephraim to command an hard commandment. 
But God shall not forsake his mercy, and shall not destroy, neither do away his works, neither he shall lose from the generation the sons’ sons of his chosen king David; and he shall not destroy the seed of him that loveth the Lord. Forsooth God gave remnant to Jacob, and to David of that generation. 
And Solomon had an end with his fathers. And he left after him of his seed Rehoboam, the folly of the folk, and made less or diminished from prudence; which Rehoboam turned away the folk by his counsel. And Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, that made Israel to do sin, and gave to Ephraim way to do sin; 
and full many sins of them were plenteous, for they turned them away greatly from their land, that is, sins great and horrible made them to be prisoners far from their land. 
And the lineage of Ephraim sought all wickednesses, till defence came to them; and he delivered them from all sins. 
