JEREMIAH.
Chapter 17.
The sin of Judah is written with an iron pointel, in a nail of adamant; it is written on the breadth of the heart of them, and in the horns of the altars of them. 
When the sons of them bethink on their altars, and maumet woods, and on the trees full of boughs, 
making sacrifice in the field in high mountains, I shall give thy strength and all thy treasures into ravishing, thine high things for sins in all thine ends. 
And thou shalt be left alone from thine heritage which I gave to thee; and I shall make thee to serve thine enemies, in the land which thou knowest not; for thou hast kindled fire in my strong vengeance, it shall burn till into without end. 
The Lord saith these things, Cursed is the man that trusteth in man, and setteth or putteth flesh his arm, and his heart goeth away from the Lord. 
For he shall be as brooms in desert, and he shall not see, when good shall come; but he shall dwell in dryness in desert, in the land of saltness, and unhabitable. 
Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord, and the Lord shall be his trust. 
And he shall be as a tree, which is planted over waters, which sendeth his roots to moisture; and it shall not dread, when heat shall come; and the leaf thereof shall be green, and it shall not be moved in the time of dryness, neither any time it shall fail to make fruit. 
The heart of man is shrewd, and unsearchable; who shall know it? 
I am the Lord seeking the heart, and proving the reins, either kidneys, and I give to each man after his way, and after the fruit of his findings. 
A partridge nourished those things which she breeded not; he made riches, and not in doom; in the midst of his days he shall forsake them, and in his last time he shall be unwise. 
The seat of glory of highness was at the beginning the place of our hallowing, the abiding of Israel. 
Lord, all they that forsake thee, shall be shamed; they that go away from thee, shall be written in the earth, for they have forsaken the Lord, a vein of quick waters. 
Lord, heal me, and I shall be healed; make thou me safe, and I shall be safe; for thou art my praising. 
Lo! they say to me, Where is the word of the Lord? come it. 
And I am not troubled, pursuing or following thee shepherd, and I desired not the day of man, thou knowest. That that went out of my lips was rightful or right in thy sight. 
Be thou not to dread to me; thou art mine hope in the day of torment. 
Be they shamed, that pursue me, and be I not shamed; dread they, and dread not I; bring in on them a day of torment, and defoul thou them by double defouling. 
The Lord saith these things to me, Go thou, and stand in the gate of the sons of the people, by which the kings of Judah enter in, and go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem. 
And thou shall say to them, Hear the word of the Lord, ye kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the dwellers of Jerusalem, that enter in by these gates. 
The Lord God saith these things, Keep ye your souls, and do not ye bear burdens in the day of sabbath, neither bring in by the gates of Jerusalem. 
And do not ye cast burdens out of your houses in the day of sabbath, and ye shall not do any work; hallow ye the day of sabbath, as I commanded to your fathers. 
And they heard not, neither bowed down their ear, but they made hard their noll, that they should not hear me, and that they should not take chastising. 
And it shall be, if ye hear me, saith the Lord, that ye bear not in burdens by the gates of this city in the day of sabbath, and if ye hallow the day of sabbath, that ye do not work therein, 
kings and princes sitting on the seat of David shall enter in by the gates of this city, and ascending or going in chariots and horses; they, and the princes of them, the men of Judah, and the dwellers of Jerusalem; and this city shall be inhabited without end. 
And they shall come from the cities of Judah, and from the compass of Jerusalem, and from the land of Benjamin, and from the field places, and from the hilly or mountainous places, and from the south, bearing burnt sacrifice, and slain sacrifice, and incense; and they shall bring offering into the house of the Lord. 
Forsooth if ye hear not me, that ye hallow the day of sabbath, and that ye bear not a burden, and that ye bring not in by the gates of Jerusalem in the day of sabbath, I shall kindle fire in the gates thereof; and it shall devour the houses of Jerusalem, and it shall not be quenched. 
