PSALMS.
Chapter 33.
Ye just or rightwise men, have fully joy or full out joyeth in the Lord; praising altogether becometh rightful or right men. 
Acknowledge ye to the Lord in an harp; sing ye to him in a psaltery of ten strings. 
Sing ye to him a new song; say ye well psalm to him in crying out. 
For the word of the Lord is rightful or right; and all his works be in faithfulness. 
He loveth mercy and doom; the earth is full of the mercy of the Lord. 
Heavens be made steadfast by the word of the Lord; and all the virtue of those or them by the spirit of his mouth. 
And he gathered together the waters of the sea as in a bouget or a bottle; and he setteth deep waters in treasures. 
All earth dread the Lord; soothly all men inhabiting the world be moved of him. 
For he said, and things were made; he commanded, and things were made of nought. 
The Lord destroyeth the counsels of folks, forsooth he reproveth the thoughts of peoples; and he reproveth the counsels of princes. 
But the counsel of the Lord dwelleth without end; the thoughts of his heart dwell in generation and into generation. 
Blessed is the folk, whose Lord is his God; the people which he chose into heritage to himself. 
The Lord beheld from heaven; he saw all the sons of men. 
From his dwelling place made ready before; he beheld on all men, that inhabit the earth. 
Which made singularly, either each by himself, the souls of them; which understandeth all the works of them. 
A king is not saved by much virtue, that is, strength; and a giant shall not be saved in the muchliness of his virtue. 
An horse is false to health; for-sooth he shall not be saved in the abundance, either plenty, of his virtue. 
Lo! the eyes of the Lord be on men dreading him; and in them that hope in his mercy. 
That he deliver their souls from death; and feed them in hunger. 
Our soul suffereth the Lord, that is, abideth patiently his will; for he is our helper and defender. 
For our heart shall be glad in him; and we shall have hope in his holy name. 
Lord, thy mercy be made on us; as we hoped in thee. 
