EZEKIEL.
Chapter 6.
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, set thy face toward the hills of Israel; and thou shalt prophesy to those hills, 
and shalt say, Hills of Israel, hear ye the word of the Lord God. The Lord God saith these things to mountains, and little hills, to rocks of stone, and to valleys, Lo! I shall bring in on you a sword, and I shall lose your high things or places. 
And I shall destroy your altars, and your simulacra shall be broken; and I shall cast down your slain men before your idols. 
And I shall give the dead bodies of the sons of Israel before the face of your simulacra, and I shall scatter your bones about your altars, 
in all your dwellings. Cities shall be forsaken, and high things shall be destroyed, and shall be scattered; and your altars shall perish, and shall be broken. And your idols shall cease to exist, and your temples of idols shall be all-broken, and your works shall be done away. 
And a slain man shall fall down in the midst of you; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord. 
And I shall leave in you them that fled the sword, to go among heathen men, when I shall scatter you into lands. 
And your delivered men shall have mind on me among heathen men, to which they be led prisoners; for I have all-broken their heart doing fornication, and going away from me, and their eyes doing fornication after their idols. And they shall displease themselves on the evils, which they did in all their abominations. 
And they shall know, that I the Lord spake not in vain, that I should do this evil to them. 
The Lord God saith these things, Smite thine hand, and hurtle thy foot, and say, Alas! to all abominations of the evils of the house of Israel; for they shall fall down by sword, hunger, and pestilence. 
He that is far, shall die by pestilence. Forsooth he that is nigh, shall fall by sword. And he that is left and besieged, shall die by hunger. And I shall ful fill mine indignation in them. 
And ye shall know, that I am the Lord, when your slain men shall be in the midst of your idols, in the compass of your altars, in each high little hill, and in all the highnesses of mountains, and under each tree full of wood, and under each oak full of boughs, that is, a place where they burnt incense sweet smelling to all their idols. 
And I shall stretch forth mine hand on them, and I shall make their land desolate and destitute, from desert unto Diblath, in all the dwellings of them; and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
