JUDITH.
Chapter 15.
And when all the host had heard Holofernes beheaded, mind and counsel fled from them, and they shaken by trembling and dread alone or they stirred with only trembling and dread, took the help or the succour of flight, 
so that no man spake with his neighbor; but each man bowing down his head, and all their things were forsaken or left behind them, they were busy to escape the Jews or Hebrews, which they had heard to come armed upon them; and they fled by the ways of fields, and by the paths of little hills. 
Therefore the sons of Israel saw the men of Assyria fleeing or flying away, and they pursued or followed after them, and came down, and they sounded with trumps, and yelled after them. 
And for the men of Assyria not gathered together went headlong into flight, forsooth the sons of Israel pursuing with a company made feeble all the men of them, which they might find. 
And Uzziah sent messengers by all the cities and countries or regions of Israel. 
Therefore each country and each city or And so all regions and all cities sent forth chosen young men armed after them; and they pursued those Assyrians with the sharpness of sword, till they came to the last part of their coasts. 
And the residue men, or the remnant, of the sons of Israel, that were left in the city of Bethulia, entered into the tents of Assyrians, and took away with them the prey, which Assyrians fleeing had left, and men of Israel were greatly charged with chattel. 
And they that were over-comers, in their pursuit turned again to the city Bethulia, or But they that were overcomers, turned again to Bethulia, and they took away with them all things whatever were of those Assyrians, so that there was no number in sheep, and beasts, and in all moveable things of them, so that from the least unto the most, all men of Israel were made rich of the preys. 
Forsooth Joakim, the highest or the high bishop came from Jerusalem into Bethulia with all the priests, to see Judith. 
And when she had gone out to him, all they blessed her with one voice, and said, Thou art the glory of Jerusalem, and thou art the gladness of Israel, thou art the honour of our people, which hast done manly, 
and certainly thine heart was comforted in God, for thou lovedest chastity, and after thine husband thou knew not another man; therefore and the hand of the Lord comforted thee, and therefore thou shalt be blessed into without end. 
And all the people said, Be it done! be it done! or Amen! amen! 
Forsooth by thirty days scarcely were the spoils of men of Assyria gathered up of the men of Israel. 
Certainly they gave to Judith all things, that were proved to be property of Holofernes, in gold, in silver, and in clothes, and in gems, and in all appurtenance of household; and all things were given to her of the people. 
And all peoples, with women, and virgins, and with young men, made joy, in organs and harps. 
