1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 14.
Pursue ye charity, love ye spiritual things, but more that ye prophesy. 
And he that speaketh in tongue, speaketh not to men, but to God; for no man heareth. But the Spirit speaketh mysteries. 
For he that prophesieth, speaketh to men to edification, and admonishing, and comforting. 
He that speaketh in tongue, that is, in strange language, edifieth himself; but he that prophesieth, edifieth the church of God. 
And I will, that all ye speak in tongues, but more that ye prophesy. For he that prophesieth, is more than he that speaketh in languages, or in tongues; but peradventure he expound, or interpret, or declare, that the church take edification. 
But now, brethren, if I come to you, and speak in tongues, what shall I or it profit to you, but if I speak to you either in revelation, either in science, either in prophecy, either in teaching? 
For those things that be without soul, or life, and giveth voices, either pipe, either harp, but those or they give distinction of soundings, how shall it be known that that is sung, either that that is trumped or is harped. 
For if a trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall make himself ready to battle? 
So but ye give an open word by tongue, how shall that that is said be known? For ye shall be speaking in vain or in the air. 
There be many kinds of languages or tongues in this world, and nothing is without voice. 
But if I know not the virtue of a voice, I shall be to him, to whom I shall speak, a barbaric; and he that speaketh to me, shall be a barbaric. 
So ye, for ye be lovers of spirits, that is, of ghostly gifts, seek ye that ye be plenteous to edification of the church. 
And therefore he that speaketh in language or in tongue, pray, that he expound or interpret. 
For if I pray in tongue, my spirit prayeth; mine understanding, or my mind, or reasoning, is without fruit. 
What then? I shall pray in spirit, I shall pray in mind; I shall say psalm in spirit, I shall say psalm also in mind. 
For if thou blessest in spirit, who filleth the place of an idiot, or unlearned man, how shall he say Amen on thy blessing, for he knoweth not, what thou sayest? 
For thou doest well thankings or graces, but another man is not edified. 
I thank my God, for I speak in the language or the tongue of all you; 
but in the church I will speak five words in my wit, that also I teach other men, than ten thousand words in tongue not understood. 
Brethren, do not ye be made children in wits, but in malice be ye children; but in wits be ye perfect. 
For in the law it is written, That in other tongues and other lips I shall speak to this people, and neither so they shall hear me, saith the Lord. 
Therefore languages be into token, not to faithful men, but to men out of the faith; but prophecies be not to men out of the faith, but to faithful men. 
Therefore if all the church come together into one, and all men speak in tongues, if idiots, either men out of the faith, enter, whether they shall not say, What, be ye mad? 
But if all men prophesy, if any unfaithful man or idiot enter, he is convicted of all, he is wisely deemed of all. 
For the hid things of his heart be known, and so he shall fall down on the face, and shall worship God, and show verily that God is in you. 
What then, brethren? When ye come together, each of you hath a psalm, he hath teaching, he hath apocalypse, or revelation, he hath tongue, he hath expounding or interpreting; all things be they done to edification. 
Whether a man speaketh in tongue, be this done by two men, either three at the most, and by parts, that one interpret. 
But if there be not an interpreter, be he still or speak he not in the church, and speak he to himself and to God. 
Prophets twain or three say, and others wisely deem. 
But if anything be showed to a sitter or one sitting, the former be still. 
For ye may all prophesy, each by himself, that all men learn, and all admonish. 
And the spirits of prophets be subject to prophets; 
for why God is not of dissension, but of peace; as I teach in all churches of holy men. 
Women in churches be still; for it is not suffered to them to speak, but to be subject, as the law saith. 
But if they will anything learn, ask they their husbands at home; for it is foul thing to a woman to speak in the church. 
Whether the word of God came forth of you, or to you alone it came? 
If any man is seen to be a prophet, or spiritual, know he those things that I write to you, for those or they be the commandments of the Lord. 
And if any man unknoweth, he shall be unknowing. 
Therefore, brethren, love ye to prophesy, and do not ye forbid to speak in tongues. 
But be all things done honestly, and by due order in you. 
