2ND CHRONICLES.
Chapter 4.
Also he made a brazen altar of twenty cubits of length, and of twenty cubits of breadth, and of ten cubits of height; 
he made also a molten sea, that is, a great washing vessel for priests, of ten cubits from brink to brink, round by compass; it had five cubits of height; and a cord of thirty cubits encompassed the compass thereof. 
And the likeness of oxen was under it, and by ten cubits some engravings withoutforth encompassed the brink of the sea, as with twain or two orders; and the oxen were molten. 
And that sea was set upon twelve oxen, of which oxen three beheld to the north, and other three to the west, and three others beheld to the south, and the three that were residue beheld the east, and these had the sea set above them; but the hinder parts of the oxen were within under the sea. 
And the thickness of the sea had the measure of the palm of an hand, and the brink thereof was as the brink of a cup, either as of a lily crooked again, and the sea held three thousand metretes of measure. 
Also he made ten hollow vessels, and setted or put five at the right side, and five at the left side, that they should wash in those or them all things, which they should offer into burnt sacrifice; soothly the priests were washed in the sea. 
Soothly he made ten golden candle-sticks by the likeness which he had commanded to be made, and he setted those or put them in the temple, five at the right side, and five at the left side. 
And he made also ten tables, and he setted those or put them in the temple, five at the right side, and five at the left side. Also he made an hundred golden vials, or basins. 
Also he made a large place of priests, and a great house, and the doors in the great house, which he covered with brass. 
And he setted or put the sea in the right side of the porch against the east at the south. 
Also Hiram made cauldrons, and fleshhooks, and vials, or basins, and he fulfilled all the work of the king in the house of God, 
that is, he made two pillars, and their pommels or capitals, and heads, and as some nets, that covered the heads above the pommels; 
also he made forty pomegranates, and two works like nets, so that the two orders of pomegranates were joined to each work like nets, which covered the pommels, and the heads of the pillars. 
He made also foundaments, and hollow vessels, which he set upon the foundaments or bases; 
he made one sea, and twelve oxen under the sea, 
and cauldrons, and fleshhooks, and vials, or basins. Hiram, the father of Solomon, that is, called so for reason of age, either of excellence of craft, made to him all the vessels in the house of the Lord of cleanest brass. 
The king melted out those vessels in the country of Jordan, in the clay land between Succoth and Zeredathah. 
Forsooth the multitude of vessels was unnumberable, so that the weight of brass was not known. 
And Solomon made all the vessels of God’s house, the golden altar, and boards or meat tables, and the loaves of setting forth upon those or them; 
and candlesticks of purest gold, with their lanterns, that those or they should shine before God’s answering place, by the custom; 
and he made some works like flowers, and lanterns, and golden tongs; all these things were made of cleanest gold; 
also he made pans for coals to burn incense, and censers, and vials, or basins, and mortars, of purest gold. And he engraved the doors of the inner temple, that is, in the holy of holy things, and the golden doors of the temple withoutforth; 
