2ND KI.
Chapter 24.
In the days of Jehoiakim, Nebu-chadnezzar, king of Babylon, went up into Judah, and Jehoiakim was made a servant to him by three years; and again Jehoiakim rebelled against him. 
And the Lord sent to him thieves of Chaldees, and thieves of Syria, and thieves of Moab, and thieves of the sons of Ammon; and he sent them into Judah, that he should destroy it, by the word of the Lord, which he spake by his servants the prophets. 
Forsooth this was done by the word of the Lord against Judah, that he should do away it from before himself, for the sins of Manasseh, and all things which he did, 
and for the guiltless blood that he shed out; and he filled Jerusalem with the blood of innocents; and for this thing the Lord would not do mercy. 
Forsooth the residue of the words of Jehoiakim, and all things which he did, whether these be not written in the book of the words of days of the kings of Judah? 
And Jehoiakim slept with his fathers, and Jehoiachin, his son, reigned for him. 
And the king of Egypt added no more to go out of his land; for the king of Babylon had taken all things that were the king’s of Egypt, from the strand or river of Egypt unto the flood Euphrates. 
Jehoiachin was of eighteen years, when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem; the name of his mother was Nehushta, the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem. 
And he did evil before the Lord, by all things that his father had done. 
In that time the servants of Nebu-chadnezzar, king of Babylon, went up against Jerusalem, and the city was encompassed with besiegings. 
And Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, came to the city with his servants, that he should fight against it. 
And Jehoiachin, king of Judah, went out to the king of Babylon, he, and his mother, and his servants, and his princes, and his chamberlains; and the king of Babylon received him, in the eighth year of his realm. 
And he brought forth from thence all the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the king’s house; and he beat together all the golden vessels, which Solomon, king of Israel, had made in the temple of the Lord, by the word of the Lord. 
And he translated or brought over all Jerusalem, and all the princes, and all the strong men of the host, ten thousand, into captivity, and each craftsman, and goldsmith; and nothing was left, except the poor people/s of the land. 
Also he translated or brought over Jehoiachin into Babylon, and the mother of the king, the wives of the king, and the chamberlains of the king; and he led the judges of the land into captivity from Jerusalem into Babylon; 
and all the strong men, seven thousand; and craftsmen and gold-smiths, a thousand; yea, all strong men and warriors; and the king of Babylon led them away as prisoners into Babylon. 
And he ordained Mattaniah, the brother of his father, to reign for him; and putted or put to him the name Zedekiah. 
Zedekiah had one and twenty years of age, when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem; the name of his mother was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremy of Libnah. 
And he did evil before the Lord, by all things that Jehoiakim had done. 
For the Lord was wroth against Jerusalem, and against Judah, till he casted them away from his face; and Zedekiah went away from the king of Babylon. 
