ISAIAH.
Chapter 63.
Who is this that cometh from Edom, in dyed clothes from Bozrah? this fair man in his stole, either long cloth, going in the multitude of his strength? I that speak rightfulness or rightwiseness, and am a for-fighter for to save. 
Why therefore is thy clothing red? and thy clothes as of men stamping in a presser or the wine press? 
I alone stamped the press, and of folks, either Gentiles, no man is, either was, with me; I stamped them in my strong vengeance, and I defouled them in my wrath; and their blood is sprinkled on my clothes, and I made foul all my clothes. 
For why a day of vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my yielding cometh. 
I looked about, and none helper was; I sought, and none was that helped; and mine arm saved to me, and mine indignation, that helped me. 
And I defouled peoples in my strong vengeance; and I made them drunken in mine indignation, and I drew down their strength into the earth. 
I shall have mind on the merciful doings of the Lord, I shall preach the praising of the Lord, on all things which the Lord hath yielded to us, and the multitude of the goods of the house of Israel, which he gave to them, by his forgiveness, and by the multitude of his mercies. 
And the Lord said, Nevertheless it is my people, sons not denying, and he was made a saviour to them, 
in all the tribulation of them. It was set in tribulation, and the angel of his face saved them. In his love and in his forgiveness he again-bought them, and he bare them, and raised them in all the days of the world. 
Forsooth they excited him to wrathfulness or wrath, and tormented the spirit of his holy or his Holy Spirit; and he was turned into an enemy of them, and he overcame them in battle. 
And he had mind on the days of the world, of Moses, and of his people. Where is he, that led them out of the sea, with the shepherds of his flock? Where is he, that setted or set the spirit of his holy or his Holy Spirit in the middle thereof; 
which led out Moses to the right half in the arm of his majesty? which parted waters before them, that he should make to himself a name ever-lasting; 
which led them out through depths of waters, as an horse not stumbling in desert, 
as a beast going down in the field? The Spirit of the Lord was the leader thereof; so thou leddest thy people, that thou madest to thee a name of glory. 
Behold thou from heaven, and see from thine holy dwelling place, and from the seat of thy glory. Where is thy fervent love, and thy strength, the multitude of thine entrails, and of thy merciful doings? They withheld themselves on me. 
Forsooth thou art our father, and Abraham knew not us, and Israel knew not us. Thou, Lord, art our father, and our again-buyer; thy name is from the world. 
Lord, why hast thou made us to err from thy ways? thou hast made hard our heart, that we dreaded not thee? be thou converted, for thy servants, the lineages of thine heritage. 
They had as nought thine holy people in possession, and our enemies defouled thine hallowing. 
We be made as in the beginning, when thou were not Lord of us, neither thy name was called to help on us. 
