EZEKIEL.
Chapter 37.
The hand of the Lord was made on me, and led me out in the spirit of the Lord; and he let me go in the midst of a field that was full of bones; 
and he led me about by them in compass. Forsooth those or there were full many on the face of the field, and dry greatly. 
And he said to me, Guessest thou, son of man, whether these bones shall live? And I said, Lord God, thou knowest. 
And he said to me, Prophesy thou of these bones; and thou shalt say to them, Ye dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. 
The Lord God saith these things to these bones, Lo! I shall send into you a spirit, and ye shall live. 
And I shall give sinews on you, and I shall make fleshes to wax on you, and I shall stretch forth above skin in you, and I shall give a spirit to you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord. 
And I prophesied, as he com-manded to me; forsooth a sound was made, while I prophesied, and lo! a stirring together, and bones came to bones, each to his jointure. 
And I saw, and lo! sinews and fleshes waxed upon those or them, and skin was stretched forth above in them, and those or they had no spirit. 
And he said to me, Prophesy thou to the spirit, prophesy thou, son of man; and thou shalt say to the spirit, The Lord God saith these things, Come, thou spirit, from four winds, and blow thou on these slain men, and live they again. 
And I prophesied, as he com-manded to me; and the spirit entered into those bones, and they lived, and stood on their feet, a full great host. 
And the Lord said to me, Thou, son of man, all these bones is the house of Israel; they say, Our bones dried, and our hope perished, and we be cut away. 
Therefore prophesy thou, and thou shalt say to them, The Lord God saith these things, Lo! I shall open your graves, and I shall lead you out of your sepulchres, my people, and I shall lead you into your land of Israel. 
And ye shall know, that I am the Lord, when I shall open your sepulchres, and shall lead you out of your burials, my people; 
and I shall give my spirit in you, and ye shall live. And I shall make you for to rest on your land; and ye shall know, that I the Lord spake, and did, saith the Lord God. 
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
And thou, son of man, take to thee one stick, and write thou on it, To Judah, and to the sons of Israel, and to his fellows. And take thou another stick, and write on it, Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and of all the house of Israel, and of his fellows. 
And join thou those sticks one to the tother into one stick to thee; and those or they shall be into onement in thine hand. 
Soothly when the sons of thy people that speak, shall say to thee, Whether thou showest not to us, what thou wilt to thee in these things? 
thou shalt speak to them, The Lord God saith these things, Lo! I shall take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the lineages of Israel, that be joined to him, and I shall give them together with the stick of Judah; and I shall make them into one stick, and they shall be one in the hand of him. 
Soothly the sticks on which thou hast written, shall be in thine hand before the eyes of them. 
And thou shalt say to them, The Lord God saith these things, Lo! I shall take the sons of Israel from the midst of nations, to which they went forth; and I shall gather them together on each side. And I shall bring them to their land, 
and I shall make them one folk in the land, in the hills of Israel, and one king shall be commanding to all; and they shall no more be two folks, and they shall no more be parted into two realms. 
And they shall no more be defouled in their idols, and their abominations, and in all their wicked-nesses. And I shall make them safe from all their seats, in which they sinned, and I shall cleanse them; and they shall be a people to me, and I shall be God to them. 
And my servant David shall be king on them, and one shepherd shall be of all them; they shall go in my dooms, and they shall keep my commandments, and shall do those or them. 
And they shall dwell on the land, which I gave to my servant Jacob, in which your fathers dwelled; and they shall dwell on that land, they, and the sons of them, and the sons of their sons, till into without end; and David, my servant, shall be the prince of them without end. 
And I shall smite to them a bond of peace; it shall be a covenant ever-lasting to them, and I shall ‘found’ them, and I shall multiply them, and I shall give mine hallowing in the midst of them without end. 
And my tabernacle shall be among them, and I shall be God to them, and they shall be a people to me. 
And heathen men shall know, that I am the Lord, hallower of Israel, when mine hallowing shall be in the midst of them without end. 
