PSALMS.
Chapter 78.
The learning of Asaph. My people, perceive ye my law; bow your ear into the words of my mouth. 
I shall open my mouth in parables; I shall speak perfect reasons or propositions from the beginning. 
How great things have we heard, and we have known those or them; and our fathers told to us. 
Those or They be not hid from the sons of them; in another generation. And they told the praisings of the Lord, and the virtues of him; and his marvels, which he did. 
And he raised witnessing in Jacob; and he setted law in Israel. How great things commanded he to our fathers, to make those known to their sons; 
that another generation know. Sons, that shall be born, and shall rise up; shall tell out to their sons. 
That they set or put their hope in God, and forget not the works of God; and that they seek or search his commandments. 
Lest they be made a shrewd generation; and stirring to wrath, as the fathers of them. A generation that dressed not his heart; and his spirit was not believed with God. 
The sons of Ephraim, bending a bow, and sending arrows; were turned in the day of battle. 
They kept not the testament of God; and they would not go in his law. 
And they forgat his benificences or benefits; and his marvels, which he showed to them. 
He did marvels before the fathers of them, in the land of Egypt; in the field of Tanis. 
He brake the sea, and led them through it; and he ordained the waters as in a bouget or bottle. 
And he led them forth in a cloud of the day; and all night in the lightening of fire. 
He brake a stone in desert; and he gave water to them as in a much depth. 
And he led water out of the stone; and he led forth waters as floods. 
And they putted yet to do sin against him; they excited the high God into ire, in a place without water. 
And they tempted God in their hearts; that they asked meats to their lives. 
And they spake evil of God; they said, Whether God may make ready a board in desert? 
For he smote a stone, and waters flowed; and streams went out in abundance. Whether also he may give bread; either make ready a board to his people? 
Therefore the Lord heard, and delayed; and fire was kindled in Jacob, and the ire of God ascended or went up on Israel. 
For they believed not in God; neither hoped in his health. 
And he commanded to the clouds above; and he opened the gates of heaven. 
And he rained to them manna for to eat; and he gave to them bread of heaven. 
Man ate the bread of angels; he sent to them meats in abundance. 
He turned over the south wind from heaven; and he brought in by his virtue the west wind. 
And he rained fleshes as dust on them; and also volatiles feathered, as the gravel of the sea. 
And those felled in the midst of their castles or they fell in the middle of the tents of them; about the taber-nacles of them. 
And they ate, and were filled greatly, and he brought their desire to them; 
they were not defrauded of their desire. Yet their meats were in their mouth; 
and the wrath of God ascended or went up on them. And he killed the fat men of them; and he hindered the chosen men of Israel. 
In all these things they sinned yet; and believed not in the marvels of God. 
And the days of them failed in vanity; and the years of them failed with haste. 
When he killed them, they sought him; and they turned again, and early they came to him. 
And they bethought, that God is the helper of them; and the high God is the again-buyer of them. 
And they loved him in their mouth; and with their tongue they lied to him. 
Forsooth the heart of them was not rightful or right with him; neither they were had faithful in his testament. 
But he is merciful, and he shall be made merciful to the sins of them; and he shall not destroy them. And he did greatly, to turn away his ire; and he kindled not all his ire. 
And he bethought, that they be flesh; a spirit going, and not turning again. 
How oft made they him wroth in desert; they stirred him into ire in a place without water. 
And they were turned, and tempted God; and they wrathed the Holy of Israel. 
They bethought not on his hand; in the day in which he again-bought them from the hand of the troubler. 
As he setted or put his signs in Egypt; and his great wonders in the field of Tanis. 
And he turned the floods of them, and the rains of them, into blood; that they should not drink. 
He sent a flesh fly or hound flea into them, and it ate them; and he sent a paddock or frog, and it lost them. 
And he gave the fruits of them to rust; and he gave the travails of them to locusts. 
And he killed the vines of them with hail; and the sycamore trees of them with frost. 
And he betook the beasts of them to hail; and the possessions of them to fire. 
He sent into them the ire of his indignation; indignation, and ire, and tribulation, sendings-in by evil angels. 
He made a way to the path of his ire, and he spared not from the death of their lives; and he enclosed alto-gether in death the beasts of them. 
And he smote all the first engen-dered things or first begotten in the land of Egypt; the first fruits of all the travail of them in the tabernacles of Ham. 
And he took away his people as sheep; and he led them forth as a flock in desert. 
And he led them forth in hope, and they dreaded not; and the sea covered the enemies of them. 
And he brought them into the hill of his hallowing; into the hill which his right hand gat. 
And he casted out heathen men from the face of them; and by lot he parted to them the land in a cord of dealing. And he made the lineages of Israel to dwell in the tabernacles of them. 
And they tempted, and wrathed the high God; and they kept not his witnessings. 
And they turned away themselves, and they kept not covenant; as their fathers they were turned into a shrewd bow. 
They stirred him into ire in their little hills; and they stirred him to indignation in their graven images. 
God heard, and forsook; and brought to nought Israel greatly. 
And he putted or put away the tabernacle of Shiloh; his tabernacle in which he dwelled among men. 
And he betook the virtue of them into captivity; and the fairness of them into the hands of the enemy. 
And he enclosed altogether his people in sword; and he despised his heritage. 
Fire ate the young men of them; and the virgins of them were not bewailed or bewept. 
The priests of them fell down by sword; and the widows of them were not bewept. 
And the Lord was raised, as sleeping; as mighty greatly filled or drunk of wine. 
And he smote his enemies on the hinder parts; he gave to them ever-lasting shame. 
And he putted or put away the tabernacle of Joseph; and he chose not the lineage of Ephraim. 
But he chose the lineage of Judah; he chose the hill of Zion, which he loved. 
And he as an unicorn builded his holy place; in the land, which he founded into worlds. 
And he chose David his servant, and took him up from the flocks of sheep; 
he took him from behind sheep with lambs. To feed Jacob his servant; and Israel his heritage. 
And he fed them in the inno-cence of his heart; and he led them forth in the understandings of his hands. 
