LEVITICUS.
Chapter 2.
When a soul, that is, a poor man, offereth an offering of sacrifice to the Lord, tried flour of wheat shall be his offering. And he shall pour oil thereon, and he shall put incense, 
and he shall bear it to the sons of Aaron, the priest, of the which sons one of them shall take an handful of tried wheat flour, and of oil, and all the incense; and he shall put these as a memorial on the altar, into the sweetest odour to the Lord. 
Forsooth that that is left of the sacrifice shall be Aaron’s and his sons’, the holy of holy things of offerings to the Lord. 
Forsooth when thou offerest a sacrifice baked in an oven, of tried wheat flour, that is, loaves without sourdough, sprinkled with oil, and therf bread sodden in water, balmed with oil; 
if thine offering is of tried wheat flour sprinkled with oil, and without sourdough, taken of the frying pan, 
thou shalt part it in small parts, and thou shalt pour oil thereon. 
Else if the sacrifice is taken of the griddle, evenly the triedwheat flour shall be sprinkled with oil; 
the which wheat flour thou shalt offer to the Lord, and thou shalt betake it in the hands of the priest. And when he hath offered it, 
he shall take a memorial of the sacrifice, and he shall burn it on the altar, into odour of sweetness to the Lord. 
Soothly whatever thing is left, it shall be Aaron’s and his sons, the holy of holy things of the offerings to the Lord. 
Each offering which is offered to the Lord, shall be without sourdough, neither anything of sourdough, and of honey, shall be burnt in the sacrifice of the Lord. 
Ye shall offer only the first fruits of those or them, and gifts; soothly those or they shall not be put on the altar, into odour of sweetness. 
Whatever thing of sacrifice thou shalt offer, thou shalt make it savory with salt, neither thou shalt take away the salt of the bond of peace of thy God from thy sacrifice; in each offering thou shalt offer salt. 
Forsooth if thou offerest a gift of the first things of thy fruits to the Lord, of ears of corn yet green, thou shalt scorch, or singe, them in fire, and thou shalt break them in the manner of bruised corn; and so thou shalt offer thy first fruits to the Lord, 
and thou shalt pour oil there-upon, and thou shalt put incense, for it is the offering of the Lord. 
Of which the priest shall burn, into mind of the gift, a part of the bruised corn, and of the oil, and all the incense. 
