EZEKIEL.
Chapter 26.
And it was done in the eleventh year, in the first day of the month, the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, for that that Tyre said of Jerusalem, Well! the gates of peoples be broken, it is turned to me; I shall be ful filled, it is forsaken; 
therefore the Lord God saith these things, Lo! Tyre, I on thee; and I shall make many folks to ascend or go up to thee, as the sea flowing ascendeth or goeth up. 
And they shall destroy the walls of Tyre, and they shall destroy the towers thereof; and I shall raze the dust thereof from it, and I shall give it into a most clear stone. 
Drying of nets it shall be in the midst of the sea, for I spake, saith the Lord God. And Tyre shall be into ravishing to heathen men. 
And the daughters thereof that be in the field, shall be slain by sword; and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
For why the Lord God saith these things, Lo! I shall bring to Tyre Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, from the north, the king of kings, with horses, and chariots, and knights, and with a company, and great people. 
He shall slay by sword thy daughters that be in the field, and he shall encompass thee with strongholds, and he shall bear together the heap of earth in compass. And he shall raise a shield against thee, 
and he shall temper engines like vineries or vines, and engines that be called wethers against thy walls; and he shall destroy thy towers by his arms. 
By flowing of his horses, the dust of those or them shall cover thee; thy walls shall be moved of the sound of knights, and of wheels, and of chariots; when he shall enter by the gates, as by enterings of a city destroyed, 
with the claws of his horses he shall defoul all thy streets. He shall slay by sword thy people, and thy noble images shall fall down into earth. 
They shall waste thy riches, they shall ravish thy merchandise; and they shall destroy thy walls, and they shall destroy thine houses full clear, and thy stones, and thy trees, and they shall put thy dust in the midst of waters. 
And I shall make to rest the multitude of thy singers, and the sound of thine harps shall no more be heard; 
and I shall give thee into a most clear stone. Thou shalt be a place for the drying of nets, and thou shalt no more be builded, for I the Lord spake, saith the Lord God. 
The Lord God saith these things of Tyre, Whether isles shall not be moved of the sound of thy fall, and of the wailing of thy slain men, when they be slain in the midst of thee? 
And all the princes of the sea shall go down off their seats, and they shall do away their mantles, either their spoils of slain enemies, and they shall cast away their diverse clothes, and shall be clothed with wondering. They shall sit in the earth, and shall be astonied, and shall wonder on thy sudden fall. 
And they shall take wailing on thee, and shall say to thee, How perishedest thou, noble city, that dwellest in the sea, that were strong in the sea, with thy dwellers, which dwellers all men dreaded? 
Now ships shall wonder in the day of thy dread, and isles in the sea shall be troubled, for none goeth out of thee. 
For the Lord God saith these things, When I shall give thee to be a city desolate, as the cities that be not inhabited, and I shall bring on thee the depth of waters, and many waters shall cover thee. 
And I shall draw thee down with them that go down into a pit, to the people everlasting; and I shall set thee in the last land, as old wilder-nesses, with them that be led down into a pit, that thou be not inhabited. Certainly when I shall give glory in the land of livers, 
I shall drive thee into nought, and thou shalt not be; and thou shalt be sought, and thou shalt no more be found without end, saith the Lord God. 
