PROVERBS.
Chapter 18.
He that will go away from a friend, seeketh occasions, that is, feigneth causes; in all time he shall be despisable. 
A fool receiveth not the words of prudence; no but thou say those things, that be turned in his heart. 
A wicked man, when he cometh into depth of sins, despiseth whole-some lore, and commandment; but scandal and shame pursueth or followeth him. 
Deep water is the words of the mouth of a man; and a strand floating over is the well of wisdom. 
It is not good to take the person of a wicked man in doom, that thou bow away from the truth of doom. 
The lips of a fool meddle or mingle themselves with chidings; and his mouth stirreth strives. 
The mouth of a fool isthe defouling of him; and his lips be the falling of his soul. 
The words of a double-tongued man be as simple; and they come unto the inner things of the womb. Dread casteth down a slow man; forsooth the souls of men turned into women’s condition shall have hunger. 
He that is nesh, and dissolute, either unsteadfast, in his work, is the brother of a man destroying his works. 
A full strong tower is the name of the Lord; a just or rightwise man runneth to him, and he shall be enhanced. 
The chattel or substance of a rich man is the city of his strength; and as a strong wall compassing him. 
The heart of man is enhanced, before that it be broken; and it is made meek, before that it be glorified. 
He that answereth before that he heareth, showeth himself to be a fool; and worthy of shame. 
The spirit of a man sustaineth his feebleness; but who may sustain a spirit light to be wroth? 
The heart of a prudent man shall hold steadfastly knowing; and the ear of wise men seeketh teaching. 
The gift of a man alargeth his way; and maketh space to him before princes. 
A just or rightwise man is the first accuser of himself; his friend cometh, and shall search him. 
Lot ceaseth against-sayings; and deemeth also among mighty men. 
A brother that is helped of a brother, is as a steadfast city; and the dooms be as the bars of cities. 
A man’s womb shall be ful filled of the fruit of his mouth; and the seeds of his lips shall fill him. 
Death and life be in the works of the tongue; they that love it, shall eat the fruits thereof. 
He that findeth a good woman, findeth a good thing; and of the Lord he shall draw up mirth. He that putteth away a good woman, putteth away a good thing; but he that holdeth an adulteress, is a fool and unwise. 
A poor man shall speak with beseechings; and a rich man shall speak sternly. 
A man friendly to fellowship shall more be a friend, than a brother. 
