Proverbs.
Chapter 13.
A wise son is obedient to his father: But a disobedient son will be destroyed. 
A good man shall eat of the fruits of righteousness: But the lives of transgressors shall perish before their time. 
He that keeps his own mouth keeps his own life: But he that is hasty with his lips shall bring terror upon himself. 
Every slothful man desires, But the hands of the active are diligent. 
A righteous man hates an unjust word: But an ungodly man is ashamed, and will have no confidence. 
There are some who, having nothing, enrich themselves: And there are some who bring themselves down in the midst of much wealth. 
A man’s own wealth is the ransom of his life: But the poor endures not threatening. 
The righteous always have light: But the light of the ungodly is quenched. 
Crafty souls go astray in sins: But just men pity, and are merciful. 
A bad man does evil with insolence: But they that are judges of themselves are wise. 
Wealth gotten hastily with iniquity is diminished: But he that gathers for himself with godliness shall be increased. The righteous is merciful, and lends. 
Better is he that begins to help heartily, Than he that promises and leads another to hope: For a good desire is a tree of life. 
He that slights a matter shall be slighted of it: But he that fears the commandment has health of soul. 
To a crafty son there shall be nothing good: But a wise servant shall have prosperous doings, And his way shall be directed aright. 
The law of the wise is a fountain of life: But the man void of understanding shall die by a snare. 
Sound discretion gives favor, And to know the law is the part of a sound understanding: But the ways of scorners tend to destruction. 
Every prudent man acts with knowledge: But the fool displays his own mischief. 
A rash king shall fall into mischief: But a wise messenger shall deliver him. 
Instruction removes poverty and disgrace: But he that attends to reproofs shall be honored. 
The desires of the godly gladden the soul, But the works of the ungodly are far from knowledge. 
If thou walkest with wise men thou shalt be wise: But he that walks with fools shall be known. 
Evil shall pursue sinners; But good shall overtake the righteous. 
A good man shall inherit children’s children; And the wealth of ungodly men is laid up for the just. 
The righteous shall spend many years in wealth: But the unrighteous shall perish suddenly. 
He that spares the rod hates his son: But he that loves, carefully chastens him. 
A just man eats and satisfies his soul: But the souls of the ungodly are in want. 
