Zephaniah.
Chapter 2.
Be ye gathered and closely joined together, O unchastened nation; 
before ye become as the flower that passes away, before the anger of the Lord come upon you, before the day of the wrath of the Lord come upon you. 
Seek ye the Lord, all ye meek of the earth; do judgment, and seek justice, and answer accordingly; that ye may be hidden in the day of the wrath of the Lord. 
For Gaza shall be utterly spoiled, and Ashkelon shall be destroyed; and Ashdod shall be cast forth at noonday, and Ekron shall be rooted up. 
Woe to them that dwell on the border of the sea, neighbors of the Cretans! the word of the Lord is against you, O Canaan, land of the Philistines, and I will destroy you out of your dwelling place. 
And Crete shall be a pasture of flocks, and a fold of sheep. 
And the sea coast shall be for the remnant of the house of Judah; they shall pasture upon them in the houses of Ashkelon; they shall rest in the evening because of the children of Judah; for the Lord their God has visited them, and he will turn away their captivity. 
I have heard the revilings of Moab, and the insults of the children of Ammon, wherewith they have reviled my people, and magnified themselves against my coasts. 
Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Moab shall be as Sodom, and the children of Ammon as Gomorrah; and Damascus shall be left as a heap of the threshing floor, and desolate forever: and the remnant of my people shall plunder them, and the remnant of my nation shall inherit them. 
This is their punishment in return for their haughtiness, because they have reproached and magnified themselves against the Lord Almighty. 
The Lord shall appear against them, and shall utterly destroy all the gods of the nations of the earth; and they shall worship him every one from his place, even all the islands of the nations. 
Ye Ethiopians also are the slain of my sword. 
And he shall stretch forth his hand against the north and destroy the Assyrian, and make Nineveh a dry wilderness, even as a desert. 
And flocks, and all the wild beasts of the land, and chameleons shall feed in the midst thereof: and hedgehogs shall lodge in the ceilings thereof; and wild beasts shall cry in the breaches thereof, and ravens in her porches, whereas her loftiness was as a cedar. 
This is the scornful city that dwells securely, that says in her heart, I am, and there is no longer any to be after me: how is she become desolate, a habitation of wild beasts! everyone that passes through her shall hiss, and shake his hands. 
