Proverbs.
Chapter 22.
A fair name is better than much wealth, And good favor is above silver and gold. 
The rich and the poor meet together; But the Lord made them both. 
An intelligent man seeing a bad man severely punished is himself instructed, But fools pass by and are punished. 
The fear of the Lord is the offspring of wisdom, And wealth, and glory, and life. 
Thistles and snares are in perverse ways; But he that keeps his soul will refrain from them. 
The rich will rule over the poor, And servants will lend to their own masters. 
He that sows wickedness shall reap troubles; And shall fully receive the punishment of his deeds. 
God loves a cheerful and liberal man; But a man shall fully prove the folly of his works. 
He that has pity on the poor shall himself be maintained; For he has given of his own bread to the poor. 
He that gives liberally secures victory and honor; But he takes away the life of them that possess them. 
Cast out a pestilent person from the council, and strife shall go out with him; For when he sits in the council he dishonors all. 
The Lord loves holy hearts, And all blameless persons are acceptable with him: A king rules with his lips. 
But the eyes of the Lord preserve discretion; But the transgressor despises wise words. 
The sluggard makes excuses, and says, There is a lion in the ways, and murderers in the streets. 
The mouth of a transgressor is a deep pit; And he that is hated of the Lord shall fall into it. 
Evil ways are before a man, And he does not like to turn away from them; But it is needful to turn aside from a perverse and bad way. 
Folly is attached to the heart of a child, But the rod and instruction are then far from him. 
He that oppresses the poor, increases his own substance, Yet gives to the rich so as to make it less. 
Incline thine ear to the words of wise men: Hear also my word, and apply thy heart, 
That thou mayest know that they are good: And if thou lay them to heart, They shall also gladden thee on thy lips, 
That thy hope may be in the Lord, And he may make thy way known to thee. 
And do thou too repeatedly record them for thyself On the table of thy heart, for counsel and knowledge. 
I therefore teach thee truth, and knowledge good to hear; That thou mayest answer words of truth to them that question thee. 
Do no violence to the poor, for he is needy: Neither dishonor the helpless man in the gates. 
For the Lord will plead his cause, And thou shalt deliver thy soul in safety. 
Be not companion to a furious man; Neither lodge with a passionate man: 
Lest thou learn of his ways, And get snares to thy soul. 
Become not surety from respect of a man’s person. 
For if those have not whence to give compensation, They will take the bed that is under thee. 
Remove not the old landmarks, which thy fathers placed. 
It is fit that an observant man and one diligent in his business Should attend on kings, And not attend on slothful men. 
