Kings IV (2 Kings).
Chapter 1.
And Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab. 
And Ahaziah fell through the lattice that was in his upper chamber in Samaria, and was sick; and he sent messengers, and said to them, Go and inquire of Baal fly, the god of Ekron, whether I shall recover of this my sickness. And they went to inquire of him. 
And an angel of the Lord called Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Arise, and go to meet the messengers of Ahaziah king of Samaria, and thou shalt say to them, Is it because there is no God in Israel, that ye go to inquire of Baal fly, the god of Ekron? but it shall not be so. 
For thus saith the Lord, The bed on which thou art gone up, thou shalt not come down from it, for thou shalt surely die. And Elijah went, and said so to them. 
And the messengers returned to him, and he said to them, Why have ye returned? 
And they said to him, A man came up to meet us, and said to us, Go, return to the king that sent you, and say to him, Thus saith the Lord, Is it because there is no God in Israel, that thou goest to inquire of Baal fly, the god of Ekron? it shall not be so: the bed on which thou art gone up, thou shalt not come down from it, for thou shalt surely die. 
So they returned and reported to the king as Elijah said: and he said to them, What was the manner of the man who went up to meet you, and spoke to you these words? 
And they said to him, He was a hairy man, and girded with a leathern girdle about his loins. And he said, This is Elijah the Tishbite. 
And he sent to him a captain of fifty and his fifty; and he went up to him: and, behold, Elijah sat on the top of a mountain. And the captain of fifty spoke to him, and said, O man of God, the king has called thee, come down. 
And Elijah answered and said to the captain of fifty, And if I am a man of God, fire shall come down out of heaven, and devour thee and thy fifty. And fire came down out of heaven, and devoured him and his fifty. 
And the king sent a second time to him another captain of fifty, and his fifty. And the captain of fifty spoke to him, and said, O man of God, thus says the king, Come down quickly. 
And Elijah answered and spoke to him, and said, If I am a man of God, fire shall come down out of heaven, and devour thee and thy fifty. And fire came down out of heaven, and devoured him and his fifty. 
And the king sent yet again a captain and his fifty. And the third captain of fifty came, and knelt on his knees before Elijah, and entreated him, and spoke to him and said, O man of God, let my life, and the life of these fifty thy servants, be precious in thine eyes. 
Behold, fire came down from heaven, and devoured the two first captains of fifty: and now, I pray, let my life be precious in thine eyes. 
And the angel of the Lord spoke to Elijah, and said, Go down with him, be not afraid of them. And Elijah rose up, and went down with him to the king. 
And Elijah spoke to him, and said, Thus saith the Lord, Why hast thou sent messengers to inquire of Baal fly, the god of Ekron? it shall not be so: the bed on which thou art gone up, thou shalt not come down from it, for thou shalt surely die. 
So he died according to the word of the Lord which Elijah had spoken. 
And the rest of the acts of Ahaziah which he did, behold, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
And Jehoram son of Ahab reigns over Israel in Samaria twelve years beginning in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah: 
and he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord, only not as his brethren, nor as his mother: 
and he removed the pillars of Baal which his father made, and broke them in pieces: only he was joined to the sins of the house of Jeroboam, who led Israel to sin; he departed not from them. 
And the Lord was very angry with the house of Ahab. 
