Ezra and Nehemiah.
Chapter 17.
And it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed, 
that I gave charge to Ananias my brother, and Ananias the ruler of the palace, over Jerusalem: for he was a true man, and one that feared God beyond many. 
And I said to them, The gates of Jerusalem shall not be opened till sunrise; and while they are still watching, let the doors be shut, and bolted; and set watches of them that dwell in Jerusalem, every man at his post, and every man over against his house. 
Now the city was wide and large; and the people were few in it, and the houses were not built. 
And God put it into my heart, and I gathered the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, into companies: and I found a register of the company that came up first, and I found written in it as follows: 
Now these are the children of the country, that came up from captivity, of the number which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon carried away, and they returned to Jerusalem and to Judah, every man to his city; 
with Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and Nehemiah, Azariah, and Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Ezra, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah, Masphar, men of the people of Israel. 
The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred and seventy-two. 
The children of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy-two. 
The children of Arah, six hundred and fifty-two. 
The children of Pahath-moab, with the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand six hundred and eighteen. 
The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred and fifty-four. 
The children of Zattu, eight hundred and forty-five. 
The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty. 
The children of Binnui, six hundred and forty-eight. 
The children of Bebai, six hundred and twenty-eight. 
The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred and twenty-two. 
The children of Adonikam, six hundred and sixty-seven. 
The children of Bigvai, two thousand and sixty-seven. 
The children of Adin, six hundred and fifty-five. 
The children of Ater, the son of Hezekiah, ninety-eight. 
The children of Hashum, three hundred and twenty-eight. 
The children of Bezai, three hundred and twenty-four. 
The children of Hariph, a hundred and twelve: the children of Asen, two hundred and twenty-three. 
The children of Gibeon, ninety-five. 
The children of Bethlehem, a hundred and twenty-three: the children of Netophah, fifty-six. 
The children of Anathoth, a hundred and twenty-eight. 
The men of Beth-azmaveth, forty-two. 
The men of Kiriath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty-three. 
The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred and twenty. 
The men of Michmas, a hundred and twenty-two. 
The men of Bethel and Ai, a hundred and twenty-three. 
The men of Nebo, a hundred and fifty-two. 
The men of Elam-ar, one thousand two hundred and fifty-two. 
The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty. 
The children of Jericho, three hundred and forty-five. 
The children of Lod-hadid and Ono, seven hundred and twenty-one. 
The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty. 
The priests; the sons of Jedaiah, pertaining to the house of Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy-three. 
The children of Immer, one thousand and fifty-two. 
The children of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred and forty-seven. 
The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen. 
The Levites; the children of Jeshua the son of Kadmiel, with the children of Hodevah, seventy-four. 
The singers; the children of Asaph, a hundred and forty-eight. 
The porters; the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, a hundred and thirty-eight. 
The Nathinim; the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth, 
the children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon, 
the children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the children of Shalmai, 
the children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, 
the children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, 
the children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, 
the children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephushesim, 
the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, 
the children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha, 
the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah, 
the children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha. 
The children of the servants of Solomon; the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida, 
the children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, 
the children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth, the children of Hazzebaim, the children of Amon. 
All the Nathinim, and children of the servants of Solomon, were three hundred and ninety-two. 
And these went up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addon, Immer: but they could not declare the houses of their families, or their seed, whether they were of Israel. 
The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred and forty-two. 
And of the priests; the children of Hobaiah, the children of Hakkoz, the children of Barzillai, for they took wives of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and they were called by their name. 
These sought the pedigree of their company, and it was not found, and they were removed as polluted from the priesthood. 
And the Athersastha said, that they should not eat of the most holy things, until a priest should stand up to give light. 
And all the congregation was about forty-two thousand three hundred and sixty, 
besides their menservants and their maidservants: these were seven thousand three hundred and thirty-seven: and the singing men and singing women, two hundred and forty-five. 
Two thousand seven hundred asses. 
And part of the heads of families gave into the treasury to Nehemiah for the work a thousand pieces of gold, fifty bowls, and thirty priests’ garments. 
And some of the heads of families gave into the treasuries of the work, twenty thousand pieces of gold, and two thousand three hundred pounds of silver. 
And the rest of the people gave twenty thousand pieces of gold, and two thousand two hundred pounds of silver, and sixty-seven priests’ garments. 
And the priests, and Levites, and porters, and singers, and some of the people, and the Nathinim, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities. 
