Job.
Chapter 41.
Hast thou not seen him? And hast thou not wondered at the things said of him? 
Dost thou not fear because preparation has been made by me? For who is there that resists me? 
Or who will resist me, and abide, Since the whole world under heaven is mine? 
I will not be silent because of him: Though because of his power one shall pity his antagonist. 
Who will open the face of his garment? And who can enter within the fold of his breastplate? 
Who will open the doors of his face? Terror is round about his teeth. 
His innards are as brazen plates, And the texture of his skin as an emery stone. 
One part cleaves fast to another, And the air cannot come between them. 
They will remain united each to the other: They are closely joined, and cannot be separated. 
At his sneezing a light shines, And his eyes are as the appearance of the morning star. 
Out of his mouth proceed as it were burning lamps, And as it were hearths of fire are cast abroad. 
Out of his nostrils proceeds smoke of a furnace Burning with fire of coals. 
His breath is as live coals, And a flame goes out of his mouth. 
And power is lodged in his neck, Before him destruction runs. 
The flesh also of his body is joined together: If one pours violence upon him, he shall not be moved. 
His heart is firm as a stone, And it stands like an unyielding anvil. 
And when he turns, he is a terror to the four-footed wild beasts Which leap upon the earth. 
If spears should come against him, men will effect nothing, Either with the spear or the breastplate. 
For he considers iron as chaff, And brass as rotten wood. 
The bow of brass shall not wound him, He deems a slinger as grass. 
Mauls are counted as stubble; And he laughs to scorn the waving of the firebrand. 
His lair is formed of sharp points; And all the gold of the sea under him is as an immense quantity of clay. 
He makes the deep boil like a brazen caldron; And he regards the sea as a pot of ointment, 
And the lowest part of the deep as a captive: He reckons the deep as his range. 
There is nothing upon the earth like to him, Formed to be sported with by my angels. 
He beholds every high thing: And he is king of all that are in the waters. 
