Jeremiah.
Chapter 48.
Now it came to pass in the seventh month that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah the son of Elishama of the seed royal, came, and ten men with him, to Gedaliah to Mizpah: and they ate bread there together. 
And Ishmael rose up, and the ten men that were with him, and smote Gedaliah, whom the king of Babylon had appointed governor over the land, 
and all the Jews that were with him in Mizpah, and all the Chaldeans that were found there. 
And it came to pass on the second day after he had smitten Gedaliah, and no man knew of it, 
that there came men from Shechem, and from Salem, and from Samaria, even eighty men, having their beards shaven, and their clothes rent, and beating their breasts, and they had manna and frankincense in their hands, to bring them into the house of the Lord. 
And Ishmael went out to meet them; and they went on and wept: and he said to them, Come in to Gedaliah. 
And it came to pass, when they had entered into the midst of the city, that he slew them and cast them into a pit. 
But ten men were found there, and they said to Ishmael, Slay us not: for we have treasures in the field, wheat and barley, honey and oil. So he passed by, and slew them not in the midst of their brethren. 
Now the pit into which Ishmael cast all whom he smote, is the great pit, which King Asa had made for fear of Baasha king of Israel: even this Ishmael filled with slain men. 
And Ishmael brought back all the people that were left in Mizpah, and the king’s daughter, whom the captain of the guard had committed in charge to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam: and he went away beyond the children of Ammon. 
And Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the leaders of the host that were with him, heard of all the evil deeds which Ishmael had done. 
And they brought all their army, and went to fight against him, and found him near much water in Gibeon. 
And it came to pass, when all the people that was with Ishmael saw Johanan, and the leaders of the host that was with him, 
that they returned to Johanan. 
But Ishmael escaped with eight men and went to the children of Ammon. 
And Johanan, and all the leaders of the host that were with him, took all the remnant of the people, whom he had brought back from Ishmael, mighty men in war, and the women, and the other property, and the eunuchs, whom they had brought back from Gibeon: 
and they departed, and dwelt in Geruth Chimham, that is by Bethlehem, to go into Egypt, for fear of the Chaldeans: 
for they were afraid of them, because Ishmael had smitten Gedaliah, whom the king of Babylon made governor in the land. 
