Kings II.
Chapter 13.
And it happened after this that Absalom the son of David had a very beautiful sister, and her name was Tamar; and Amnon the son of David loved her. 
And Amnon was distressed even to sickness, because of Tamar his sister; for she was a virgin, and it seemed very difficult for Amnon to do anything to her. 
And Amnon had a friend, and his name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah the brother of David: and Jonadab was a very cunning man. 
And he said to him, What ails thee that thou art thus weak, O son of the king, morning by morning? wilt thou not tell me? and Amnon said, I love Tamar the sister of my brother Absalom. 
And Jonadab said to him, Lie upon thy bed, and make thyself sick, and thy father shall come in to see thee; and thou shalt say to him, Let, I pray thee, Tamar my sister come, and feed me with morsels, and let her prepare food before my eyes, that I may see and eat at her hands. 
So Amnon lay down, and made himself sick; and the king came in to see him: and Amnon said to the king, Let, I pray thee, my sister Tamar come to me, and make a couple of cakes in my sight, and I will eat them at her hand. 
And David sent to Tamar to the house, saying, Go now to thy brother’s house, and dress him food. 
And Tamar went to the house of her brother Amnon, and he was lying down: and she took the dough and kneaded it, and made cakes in his sight, and baked the cakes. 
And she took the frying pan and poured them out before him, but he would not eat. And Amnon said, Send out every man from about me. And they removed every man from about him. 
And Amnon said to Tamar, Bring in the food into the closet, and I will eat of thy hand. And Tamar took the cakes which she had made, and brought them to her brother Amnon into the chamber. 
And she brought them to him to eat, and he caught hold of her, and said to her, Come, lie with me, my sister. 
And she said to him, Nay, my brother, do not humble me, for it ought not to be so done in Israel; do not this folly. 
And I, whither shall I remove my reproach? and thou shalt be as one of the fools in Israel. And now, speak, I pray thee, to the king, for surely he will not keep me from thee. 
But Amnon would not hearken to her voice; and he prevailed against her, and humbled her, and lay with her. 
Then Amnon hated her with very great hatred; for the hatred with which he hated her was greater than the love with which he had loved her, for the last wickedness was greater than the first: and Amnon said to her, Rise, and begone. 
And Tamar spoke to him concerning this great mischief, greater, said she, than the other that thou didst me, to send me away: but Amnon would not hearken to her voice. 
And he called his servant who had charge of the house, and said to him, Put now this woman out from me, and shut the door after her. 
And she had on her a variegated robe, for so were the king’s daughters that were virgins attired in their apparel: and his servant led her forth, and shut the door after her. 
And Tamar took ashes, and put them on her head; and she rent the variegated garment that was upon her: and she laid her hands on her head, and went crying continually. 
And Absalom her brother said to her, Has thy brother Amnon been with thee? now then, my sister, be silent, for he is thy brother: be not careful to mention this matter. So Tamar dwelt as a widow in the house of her brother Absalom. 
And King David heard of all these things, and was very angry; but he did not grieve the spirit of his son Amnon, because he loved him, for he was his firstborn. 
And Absalom spoke not to Amnon, good or bad, because Absalom hated Amnon, on account of his humbling his sister Tamar. 
And it came to pass at the end of two whole years, that they were shearing sheep for Absalom in Baal-hazor near Ephraim: and Absalom invited all the king’s sons. 
And Absalom came to the king, and said, Behold, thy servant has a sheepshearing; let now the king and his servants go with thy servant. 
And the king said to Absalom, Nay, my son, let us not all go, and let us not be burdensome to thee. And he pressed him; but he would not go, but blessed him. 
And Absalom said to him, And if not, let, I pray thee, my brother Amnon go with us. And the king said to him, Why should he go with thee? 
And Absalom pressed him, and he sent with him Amnon and all the king’s sons; and Absalom made a banquet like the banquet of the king. 
And Absalom charged his servants, saying, Mark when the heart of Amnon shall be merry with wine, and I shall say to you, Smite Amnon, and slay him: fear not; for is it not I that command you? Be courageous, and be valiant. 
And the servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom commanded them: and all the sons of the king rose up, and they mounted every man his mule, and fled. 
And it came to pass, when they were in the way, that a report came to David, saying, Absalom has slain all the king’s sons, and there is not one of them left. 
Then the king arose, and rent his garments, and lay upon the ground: and all his servants that were standing round him rent their garments. 
And Jonadab the son of Shimeah brother of David, answered and said, Let not my lord the king say that he has slain all the young men the sons of the king, for Amnon only of them all is dead; for he was appointed to death by the mouth of Absalom from the day that he humbled his sister Tamar. 
And now let not my lord the king take the matter to heart, saying, All the king’s sons are dead: for Amnon only of them all is dead. 
And Absalom escaped: and the young man the watchman lifted up his eyes, and looked; and, behold, much people went in the way behind him from the side of the mountain in the descent: and the watchman came and told the king, and said, I have seen men by the way of Horonaim, by the side of the mountain. 
And Jonadab said to the king, Behold, the king’s sons are present: according to the word of thy servant, so has it happened. 
And it came to pass when he had finished speaking, that, behold, the king’s sons came, and lifted up their voices and wept: and the king also and all his servants wept with a very great weeping. 
But Absalom fled, and went to Talmai son of Ammihud king of Geshur to the land of Chamaachad: and King David mourned for his son continually. 
So Absalom fled, and departed to Geshur, and was there three years. 
And King David ceased to go out after Absalom, for he was comforted concerning Amnon, touching his death. 
