Chronicles I.
Chapter 2.
These are the names of the sons of Israel; 
Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, Asher. 
The sons of Judah; Er, Onan, Shelah. These three were born to him of the daughter of Shua the Canaanitish woman: and Er, the firstborn of Judah, was wicked before the Lord, and he slew him. 
And Tamar his daughter-in-law bore to him Perez, and Zerah: all the sons of Judah were five. 
The sons of Perez, Hezron, and Hamul. 
And the sons of Zerah, Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara, in all five. 
And the sons of Carmi; Achan the troubler of Israel, who was disobedient in the accursed thing. 
And the sons of Ethan; Azariah, 
and the sons of Hezron who were born to him; Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai. 
And Ram begot Amminadab, and Amminadab begot Nahshon, chief of the house of Judah. 
And Nahshon begot Salmon, and Salmon begot Boaz, 
and Boaz begot Obed, and Obed begot Jesse. 
And Jesse begot his firstborn Eliab, Abinadab was the second, Shimea the third, 
Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, 
Ozem the sixth, David the seventh. 
And their sister was Zeruiah, and another Abigail: and the sons of Zeruiah were Abishai, and Joab, and Asahel, three. 
And Abigail bore Amasa: and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite. 
And Caleb the son of Hezron took Azubah to wife, and Jerioth: and these were her sons; Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon. 
And Azubah died; and Caleb took to himself Ephrath, and she bore to him Hur. 
And Hur begot Uri, and Uri begot Bezalel. 
And after this Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, and he took her when he was sixty-five years old; and she bore him Segub. 
And Segub begot Jair, and he had twenty-three cities in Gilead. 
And he took Geshur and Aram, the towns of Jair from them; with Kenath and its towns, sixty cities. All these belonged to the sons of Machir the father of Gilead. 
And after the death of Hezron, Caleb came to Ephrathah; and the wife of Hezron was Abia; and she bore him Ashhur the father of Tekoa. 
And the sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were, the firstborn Ram, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem his brother. 
And Jerahmeel had another wife, and her name was Atarah: she is the mother of Onam. 
And the sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel were Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker. 
And the sons of Onam were, Shammai, and Jada: and the sons of Shammai; Nadab, and Abishur. 
And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, and she bore him Ahban, and Molid. 
And the sons of Nadab; Seled and Appaim; and Seled died without children. 
And the sons of Appaim, Ishi; and the sons of Ishi, Sheshan; and the sons of Sheshan, Dadai. 
And the sons of Dadai, Achisamas, Jether, Jonathan: and Jether died childless. 
And the sons of Jonathan; Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 
And Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had an Egyptian servant, and his name was Jarha. 
And Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant to wife; and she bore him Attai. 
And Attai begot Nathan, and Nathan begot Zabad, 
and Zabad begot Ephlal, and Ephlal begot Obed. 
And Obed begot Jehu, and Jehu begot Azariah, 
and Azariah begot Helez, and Helez begot Eleasah, 
and Eleasah begot Sismai, and Sismai begot Shallum, 
and Shallum begot Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begot Elishama, and Elishama begot Ismael. 
And the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were, Mareshah his firstborn, he is the father of Ziph—and the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron. 
And the sons of Hebron; Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema. 
And Shema begot Raham the father of Jorkeam: and Jorkeam begot Shammai. 
And his son was Maon: and Maon is the father of Beth-zur. 
And Ephah the concubine of Caleb bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez. 
And the sons of Jahdai were Regem, and Jotham, and Sogar, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph. 
And Caleb’s concubine Maacah bore Sheber, and Tirhanah. 
She bore also Shaaph the father of Madmannah, and Sheva the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea: and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah. 
These were the sons of Caleb. The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah; Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim, 
Salma the father of Baetha, Lammon the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-gader. 
And the sons of Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim were Haroeh, and Aesi, and Ammanith, 
and Umasphae, cities of Jair; Ithrites, and Puthites, and Shumathites, and Mishraites; from these went forth the Zorathites, and the sons of Eshtaol. 
The sons of Salma; Bethlehem, the Netophathite, Ataroth of the house of Joab, and half of the family of Manahath, Esari. 
The families of the scribes dwelling in Jabez; Tirathites, and Shimeathites, and Sucathites, these are the Kenites that came of Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab. 
