Genesis.
Chapter 11.
And all the earth was one lip, and there was one language to all. 
And it came to pass as they moved from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and they dwelt there. 
And a man said to his neighbor, Come, let us make bricks and bake them with fire. And the brick was to them for stone, and their mortar was bitumen. 
And they said, Come, let us build to ourselves a city and tower, whose top shall be to heaven, and let us make to ourselves a name, before we are scattered abroad upon the face of all the earth. 
And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the sons of men built. 
And the Lord said, Behold, there is one race, and one lip of all, and they have begun to do this, and now nothing shall fail from them of all that they may have undertaken to do. 
Come, and having gone down let us there confound their tongue, that they may not understand each the voice of his neighbor. 
And the Lord scattered them thence over the face of all the earth, and they left off building the city and the tower. 
On this account its name was called Confusion, because there the Lord confounded the languages of all the earth, and thence the Lord scattered them upon the face of all the earth. 
And these are the generations of Shem: and Shem was a hundred years old when he begot Arpachshad, the second year after the flood. 
And Shem lived, after he had begotten Arpachshad, five hundred years, and begot sons and daughters, and died. 
And Arpachshad lived a hundred and thirty-five years, and begot Cainan. 
And Arpachshad lived after he had begotten Cainan, four hundred years, and begot sons and daughters, and died. And Cainan lived a hundred and thirty years and begot Shelah; and Cainan lived after he had begotten Shelah, three hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and daughters, and died. 
And Shelah lived a hundred and thirty years, and begot Eber. 
And Shelah lived after he had begotten Eber, three hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and daughters, and died. 
And Eber lived a hundred and thirty-four years, and begot Peleg. 
And Eber lived after he had begotten Peleg two hundred and seventy years, and begot sons and daughters, and died. 
And Peleg lived a hundred and thirty years, and begot Reu. 
And Peleg lived after he had begotten Reu, two hundred and nine years, and begot sons and daughters, and died. 
And Reu lived a hundred thirty and two years, and begot Serug. 
And Reu lived after he had begotten Serug, two hundred and seven years, and begot sons and daughters, and died. 
And Serug lived a hundred and thirty years, and begot Nahor. 
And Serug lived after he had begotten Nahor, two hundred years, and begot sons and daughters, and died. 
And Nahor lived a hundred and seventy-nine years, and begot Terah. 
And Nahor lived after he had begotten Terah, a hundred and twenty-five years, and begot sons and daughters, and he died. 
And Terah lived seventy years, and begot Abram, and Nahor, and Haran. 
And these are the generations of Terah. Terah begot Abram and Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begot Lot. 
And Haran died in the presence of Terah his father, in the land in which he was born, in the country of the Chaldees. 
And Abram and Nahor took to themselves wives, the name of the wife of Abram was Sarai, and the name of the wife of Nahor, Milcah, daughter of Haran, and he was the father of Milcah, the father of Iscah. 
And Sarai was barren, and did not bear children. 
And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran, the son of his son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, the wife of Abram his son, and led them forth out of the land of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan, and they came as far as Haran, and he dwelt there. 
And all the days of Terah in the land of Haran were two hundred and five years, and Terah died in Haran. 
