Kings II.
Chapter 8.
And it came to pass after this, that David smote the Philistines, and put them to flight, and David took the tribute from out of the hand of the Philistines. 
And David smote Moab, and measured them out with lines, having laid them down on the ground: and there were two lines for slaying, and two lines he kept alive: and Moab became servants to David, yielding tribute. 
And David smote Hadadezer the son of Rehob king of Zobah, as he went to extend his power to the river Euphrates. 
And David took a thousand of his chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: and David houghed all his chariot horses, and he reserved to himself a hundred chariots. 
And Syria of Damascus comes to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, and David smote twenty-two thousand men belonging to the Syrian. 
And David placed a garrison in Syria near Damascus, and the Syrians became servants and tributaries to David: and the Lord preserved David whithersoever he went. 
And David took the golden bracelets which were on the servants of Hadadezer king of Zobah, and brought them to Jerusalem. And Shishak king of Egypt took them, when he went up to Jerusalem in the days of Rehoboam son of Solomon. 
And King David took from Betah, and from the choice cities of Hadadezer, very much brass: with that Solomon made the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the lavers, and all the furniture. 
And Toi the king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer. 
And Toi sent Joram his son to King David, to ask him of his welfare, and to congratulate him on his fighting against Hadadezer and smiting him, for he was an enemy to Hadadezer: and in his hands were vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass. 
And these King David consecrated to the Lord, with the silver and with the gold which he consecrated out of all the cities which he conquered, 
out of Edom, and out of Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek, and from the spoils of Hadadezer son of Rehob king of Zobah. 
And David made himself a name: and when he returned he smote Edom in Gebelem to the number of eighteen thousand. 
And he set garrisons in Edom, even in all Edom: and all the Edomites were servants to the king. And the Lord preserved David wherever he went. 
And David reigned over all Israel: and David wrought judgment and justice over all his people. 
And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was keeper of the records. 
And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech son of Abiathar, were priests; and Seraiah was the scribe, 
and Benaiah son of Jehoiada was counselor, and the Cherethite and the Pelethite, and the sons of David, were princes of the court. 
