Chronicles I.
Chapter 7.
And as to the sons of Issachar, they were Tola, and Puah, and Jashub, and Shimron, four. 
And the sons of Tola; Uzzi, Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Ibsam, and Shemuel, chiefs of their fathers’ houses belonging to Tola, men of might according to their generations; their number in the days of David was twenty and two thousand and six hundred. 
And the sons of Uzzi; Izrahiah: and the sons of Izrahiah; Michael, Obadiah, and Joel, and Isshiah, five, all rulers. 
And with them, according to their generations, according to the houses of their families, were men mighty to set armies in array for war, thirty and six thousand, for they had multiplied their wives and children. 
And their brethren among all the families of Issachar, also mighty men, were eighty-seven thousand—this was the number of them all. 
The sons of Benjamin; Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three. 
And the sons of Bela; Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five; heads of houses of families, mighty men; and their number was twenty and two thousand and thirty-four. 
And the sons of Becher; Zemirah, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jeremoth, and Abijah, and Anathoth, and Alemeth: all these were the sons of Becher. 
And their number according to their generations (they were chiefs of their fathers’ houses, men of might), was twenty thousand and two hundred. 
And the sons of Jediael; Bilhan: and the sons of Bilhan; Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahar. 
All these were the sons of Jediael, chiefs of their families, men of might, seventeen thousand and two hundred, going forth to war with might. 
And Shuppim, and Huppim, and the sons of Ir, Hushim, whose son was Aher. 
The sons of Naphtali; Jahziel, Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, his sons, Bilhah his son. 
The sons of Manasseh; Asriel, whom his Syrian concubine bore; and she bore to him also Machir the father of Gilead. 
And Machir took a wife for Huppim and Shuppim, and his sister’s name was Maacah; and the name of the second son was Zelophehad; and to Zelophehad were born daughters. 
And Maacah the wife of Machir bore a son, and called his name Peresh; and his brother’s name was Sheresh; his sons were Ulam, and Rakem. 
And the sons of Ulam; Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh. 
And his sister Hammolecheth bore Ishhod, and Abiezer, and Mahlah. 
And the sons of Shemida were, Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam. 
And the sons of Ephraim; Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, Eleadah his son, Tahath his son, 
and Zabad his son, Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead: and the men of Gath who were born in the land slew them, because they went down to take their cattle. 
And their father Ephraim mourned many days, and his brethren came to comfort him. 
And he went in to his wife, and she conceived, and bore a son, and he called his name Beriah, because, said he, He was afflicted in my house. 
And his daughter was Sheerah, and he was among them that were left, and he built Beth-horon the upper and the lower. And the descendants of Uzzen were Sheerah, 
and Raphah his son, Resheph and Telah his sons, Tahan his son. 
To Ladan his son was born his son Ammihud, his son Elishama, his son 
Nun, his son Joshua, these were his sons. 
And their possession and their dwelling were Bethel and her towns, to the east Naaran, westward Gezer and her towns, and Shechem and her towns, as far as Gaza and her towns. 
And as far as the borders of the sons of Manasseh, Beth-shean and her towns, Taanach and her towns, Megiddo and her towns, Dor and her towns. In this the children of Joseph the son of Israel dwelt. 
The sons of Asher; Imnah, and Ishvah, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister. 
And the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel; he was the father of Birzaith. 
And Heber begot Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister. 
And the sons of Japhlet; Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath: these are the sons of Japhlet. 
And the sons of Shemer; Achir, and Rohgah, and Jehubbah, and Aram. 
And the sons of Helem his brother; Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal. 
The sons of Zophah; Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah, 
and Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera. 
And the sons of Jether, Jephunneh, and Pispa, and Ara. 
And the sons of Ulla; Arah, Hanniel, and Rizia. 
All these were the sons of Asher, all heads of families, choice, mighty men, chief leaders: their number for battle array—their number was twenty-six thousand men. 
