Job.
Chapter 13.
Behold, mine eye has seen these things, And mine ear has heard them. 
And I know all that ye too know; And I have not less understanding than you. 
Nevertheless I will speak to the Lord, And I will reason before him, if he will. 
But ye are all bad physicians, And healers of diseases. 
But would that ye were silent, And it would be wisdom to you in the end. 
But hear ye the reasoning of my mouth, And attend to the judgment of my lips. 
Do ye not speak before the Lord, And utter deceit before him? 
Or will ye draw back? Nay, do ye yourselves be judges. 
For it were well if he would thoroughly search you: For though doing all things in your power ye should attach yourselves to him, 
He will not reprove you at all the less: But if moreover ye should secretly respect persons, 
Shall not his whirlpool sweep you round, And terror from him fall upon you? 
And your glorying shall prove in the end to you like ashes, And your body like a body of clay. 
Be silent, that I may speak, and cease from mine anger, 
While I may take my flesh in my teeth, And put my life in my hand. 
Though the Mighty One should lay hand upon me, forasmuch as he has begun, Verily I will speak, and plead before him. 
And this shall turn to me for salvation; For fraud shall have no entrance before him. 
Hear, hear ye my words, For I will declare in your hearing. 
Behold, I am near my judgment: I know that I shall appear evidently just. 
For who is he that shall plead with me, That I should now be silent, and expire? 
But grant me two things: Then I will not hide myself from thy face. 
Withhold thine hand from me: And let not thy fear terrify me. 
Then shalt thou call, and I will hearken to thee: Or thou shalt speak, and I will give thee an answer. 
How many are my sins and my transgressions? Teach me what they are. 
Wherefore hidest thou thyself from me, And deemest me thine enemy? 
Wilt thou be startled at me, as at a leaf shaken by the wind? Or wilt thou set thyself against me as against grass borne upon the breeze? 
For thou hast written evil things against me, And thou hast compassed me with the sins of my youth. 
And thou hast placed my foot in the stocks; And thou hast watched all my works, And hast penetrated to my heels. 
I am as that which waxes old like a bottle, Or like a moth-eaten garment. 
