Chronicles I.
Chapter 27.
Now the sons of Israel according to their number, heads of families, captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, and scribes ministering to the king, and for every affair of the king according to their divisions, for every ordinance of coming in and going out monthly, for all the months of the year, one division of them was twenty-four thousand. 
And over the first division of the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel: in his division were twenty-four thousand. 
Of the sons of Perez one was chief of all the captains of the host for the first month. 
And over the division of the second month was Dodai the son of Ahoh, and over his division was Makelloth also chief: and in his division were twenty and four thousand, chief men of the host. 
The third for the third month was Benaiah the son of Jehoiada the chief priest: and in his division were twenty and four thousand. 
This Benaiah was more mighty than the thirty, and over the thirty: and Ammizabad his son was over his division. 
The fourth for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son, and his brethren: and in his division were twenty and four thousand. 
The fifth chief for the fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite: and in his division were twenty and four thousand. 
The sixth for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and in his division were twenty and four thousand. 
The seventh for the seventh month was Helez of Pelon of the children of Ephraim: and in his division were twenty and four thousand. 
The eighth for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, belonging to Zerah: and in his division were twenty and four thousand. 
The ninth for the ninth month was Abiezer of Anathoth, of the land of Benjamin: and in his division were twenty and four thousand. 
The tenth for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite, belonging to Zerah: and in his division were twenty and four thousand. 
The eleventh for the eleventh month was Benaiah of Pirathon, of the sons of Ephraim: and in his division were twenty and four thousand. 
The twelfth for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite, belonging to Othniel: and in his division were twenty and four thousand. 
And over the tribes of Israel, the chief for Reuben was Eliezer the son of Zichri: for Simeon, Shephatiah the son of Maacah: 
for Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel: for Aaron, Zadok: 
for Judah, Elihu of the brethren of David: for Issachar, Omri the son of Michael: 
for Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: for Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel: 
for Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah: for the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah: 
for the half-tribe of Manasseh in the land of Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah, for the sons of Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner: 
for Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham: these are the chiefs of the tribes of Israel. 
But David took not their number from twenty years old and under: because the Lord said that he would multiply Israel as the stars of the heaven. 
And Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number the people, and did not finish the work, for there was hereupon wrath on Israel; and the number was not recorded in the book of the chronicles of King David. 
And over the king’s treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel; and over the treasures in the country, and in the towns, and in the villages, and in the towers, was Jonathan the son of Uzziah. 
And over the husbandmen who tilled the ground was Ezri the son of Chelub. 
And over the fields was Shimei of Ramah; and over the treasures of wine in the fields was Zabdi the son of Shiphmi. 
And over the olive yards, and over the sycamores in the plain country was Baal-hanan the Gederite; and over the stores of oil was Joash. 
And over the oxen pasturing in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite; and over the oxen in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai. 
And over the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite; and over the asses was Jehdeiah of Meronoth. 
And over the sheep was Jaziz the Hagrite. All these were superintendents of the substance of King David. 
And Jonathan, David’s uncle by the father’s side, was a counselor, a wise man: and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king’s sons. 
Ahithophel was the king’s counselor: and Hushai the chief friend of the king. 
And after this Ahithophel Jehoiada the son of Benaiah came next, and Abiathar: and Joab was the king’s commander-in-chief. 
