Kings II.
Chapter 9.
And David said, Is there yet anyone left in the house of Saul, that I may deal kindly with him for Jonathan’s sake? 
And there was a servant of the house of Saul, and his name was Ziba: and they call him to David; and the king said to him, Art thou Ziba? and he said, I am thy servant. 
And the king said, Is there yet a man left of the house of Saul, that I may act toward him with the mercy of God? and Ziba said to the king, There is yet a son of Jonathan, lame of his feet. 
And the king said, Where is he? and Ziba said to the king, Behold, he is in the house of Machir the son of Ammiel of Lo-debar. 
And King David sent, and took him out of the house of Machir the son of Ammiel of Lo-debar. 
And Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan the son of Saul comes to King David, and he fell upon his face and did obeisance to him: and David said to him, Mephibosheth: and he said, Behold thy servant. 
And David said to him, Fear not, for I will surely deal mercifully with thee for the sake of Jonathan thy father, and I will restore to thee all the land of Saul the father of thy father; and thou shalt eat bread at my table continually. 
And Mephibosheth did obeisance, and said, Who am I thy servant, that thou hast looked upon a dead dog like me? 
And the king called Ziba the servant of Saul, and said to him, All that belonged to Saul and to all his house have I given to the son of thy lord. 
And thou, and thy sons, and thy servants, shall till the land for him; and thou shalt bring in bread to the son of thy lord, and he shall eat bread: and Mephibosheth the son of thy lord shall eat bread continually at my table. Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. 
And Ziba said to the king, According to all that my lord the king has commanded his servant, so will thy servant do. And Mephibosheth did eat at the table of David, as one of the sons of the king. 
And Mephibosheth had a little son, and his name was Mica: and all the household of Ziba were servants to Mephibosheth. 
And Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem, for he continually ate at the table of the king; and he was lame in both his feet. 
