Chronicles I.
Chapter 1.
Adam, Seth, Enosh, 
and Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared, 
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech, 
Noah: the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, Japheth. 
The sons of Japheth, Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Elisa, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras. 
And the sons of Gomer, Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah. 
And the sons of Javan, Elishah, and Tarshish, the Kittim, and Rodanim. 
And the sons of Ham, Cush, and Mizraim, Put and Canaan. 
And the sons of Cush, Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raamah, and Sabteca: and the sons of Raamah, Sheba, and Dedan. 
And Cush begot Nimrod: he began to be a mighty hunter on the earth. 
The sons of Shem, Elam, and Asshur, 
and Arpachshad, Shelah, 
Eber, Peleg, Reu, 
Serug, Nahor, Terah, 
Abraham. 
And the sons of Abraham, Isaac, and Ishmael. 
And these are their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and Kedar, Abdeel, Mibsam, 
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema, 
Jetur, Naphish, Kedemah: these are the sons of Ishmael. 
And the sons of Keturah Abraham’s concubine—and she bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, Shuah: and the sons of Jokshan; Dedan, and Sheba; 
and the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah; all these were the sons of Keturah. 
And Abraham begot Isaac: and the sons of Isaac were Jacob, and Esau. 
The sons of Esau, Eliphaz, and Reuel, and Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah. 
The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, and Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek. 
And the sons of Reuel, Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. 
The sons of Seir, Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. 
And the sons of Lotan, Hori, and Hemam; and the sister of Lotan was Timna. 
The sons of Shobal; Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam: and the sons of Zibeon; Aiah, and Anah. 
The sons of Anah, Dishon: and the sons of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 
And the sons of Ezer, Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan: the sons of Dishan, Uz, and Aran. 
And these are their kings, Bela the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead. 
And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead. 
And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad reigned in his stead, who smote Midian in the plain of Moab: and the name of his city was Getthaim. 
And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead. 
And Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead. 
And Shaul died, and Baal-hanan son of Achbor reigned in his stead. 
And Baal-hanan died, and Hadad son of Barad reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Pai. 
The princes of Edom: prince Timna, prince Alvah, prince Jetheth, 
prince Oholibamah, prince Elah, prince Pinon, 
prince Kenaz, prince Teman, prince Mibzar, prince Magdiel, 
prince Zaphoin. These are the princes of Edom. 
