Genesis.
Chapter 46.
And Israel departed, he and all that he had, and came to the well of the oath; and he offered sacrifice to the God of his father Isaac. 
And God spoke to Israel in a night vision, saying, Jacob, Jacob; and he said, What is it? 
And he says to him, I am the God of thy fathers; fear not to go down into Egypt, for I will make thee there a great nation. 
And I will go down with thee into Egypt, and I will bring thee up at the end; and Joseph shall put his hands on thine eyes. 
And Jacob rose up from the well of the oath; and the sons of Israel took up their father, and the baggage, and their wives on the wagons, which Joseph sent to take them. 
And they took up their goods, and all their property, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan; they came into the land of Egypt, Jacob, and all his seed with him. 
The sons, and the sons of his sons with him; his daughters, and the daughters of his daughters; and he brought all his seed into Egypt. 
And these are the names of the sons of Israel that went into Egypt with their father Jacob—Jacob and his sons. The firstborn of Jacob, Reuben. 
And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. 
And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanitish woman. 
And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
And the sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Perez, and Zerah: and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. 
And the sons of Perez were Hezron, and Hamul. And the sons of Issachar; Tola, and Puvah, and Asum, and Shimron. 
And the sons of Zebulun, Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel. 
These are the sons of Leah, which she bore to Jacob in Mesopotamia of Syria, and Dinah his daughter; all the souls, sons and daughters, thirty-three. 
And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggi, and Shuni, and Ezbon, and Eri, and Arodi, and Areli. 
And the sons of Asher; Imnah, Ishvah, and Jeul, and Beriah, and Serah their sister. And the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel. 
These are the sons of Zilpah, which Laban gave to his daughter Leah, who bore these to Jacob, sixteen souls. 
And the sons of Rachel, the wife of Jacob; Joseph, and Benjamin. 
And there were sons born to Joseph in the land of Egypt, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, priest of Heliopolis, bore to him, even Manasseh and Ephraim. And there were sons born to Manasseh, which the Syrian concubine bore to him, even Machir. And Machir begot Gilead. And the sons of Ephraim, the brother of Manasseh; Shuthelah, and Tahan. And the sons of Shuthelah; Eran. 
And the sons of Benjamin; Bela, and Becher, and Ashbel. And the sons of Bela were Gera, and Naaman, and Ehi, and Rosh, and Muppim. And Gera begot Ard. 
These are the sons of Rachel, which she bore to Jacob; all the souls eighteen. 
And the sons of Dan; Hushim. 
And the sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem. 
These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to his daughter Rachel, who bore these to Jacob; all the souls, seven. 
And all the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, who came out of his loins, besides the wives of the sons of Jacob, even all the souls were sixty-six. 
And the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in the land of Egypt, were nine souls; all the souls of the house of Jacob who came with Joseph into Egypt, were seventy-five souls. 
And he sent Judah before him to Joseph, to meet him to the city of Heroes, into the land of Rameses. 
And Joseph having made ready his chariots, went up to meet Israel his father, at the city of Heroes; and having appeared to him, fell on his neck, and wept with abundant weeping. 
And Israel said to Joseph, After this I will gladly die, since I have seen thy face, for thou art yet living. 
And Joseph said to his brethren, I will go up and tell Pharaoh, and will say to him, My brethren, and my father’s house, who were in the land of Canaan, are come to me. 
And the men are shepherds; for they have been feeders of cattle, and they have brought with them their cattle, and their kine, and all their property. 
If then Pharaoh call you, and say to you, What is your occupation? 
Ye shall say, We thy servants are herdsmen from our youth until now, both we and our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen of Arabia, for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians. 
