Proverbs.
Chapter 27.
Boast not of tomorrow; For thou knowest not what the next day shall bring forth. 
Let thy neighbor, and not thine own mouth, praise thee; A stranger, and not thine own lips. 
A stone is heavy, and sand cumbersome; But a fool’s wrath is heavier than both. 
Wrath is merciless, and anger sharp: But envy can bear nothing. 
Open reproofs are better than secret love. 
The wounds of a friend are more to be trusted Than the spontaneous kisses of an enemy. 
A full soul scorns honeycombs; But to a hungry soul even bitter things appear sweet. 
As when a bird flies down from its own nest, So a man is brought into bondage whenever he estranges himself from his own place. 
The heart delights in ointments and wines and perfumes: But the soul is broken by calamities. 
Thine own friend, and thy father’s friend, forsake not; And when thou art in distress go not into thy brother’s house: Better is a friend that is near than a brother living far off. 
Son, be wise, that thy heart may rejoice; And remove thou from thyself reproachful words. 
A wise man, when evils are approaching, hides himself; But fools pass on, and will be punished. 
Take away the man’s garment (for a scorner has passed by), Whoever lays waste another’s goods. 
Whosoever shall bless a friend in the morning with a loud voice, Shall seem to differ nothing from one who curses him. 
On a stormy day drops of rain drive a man out of his house; So also does a railing woman drive a man out of his own house. 
The north wind is sharp, But it is called by name propitious. 
Iron sharpens iron; And a man sharpens his friend’s countenance. 
He that plants a fig tree shall eat the fruits of it: So he that waits on his own master shall be honored. 
As faces are not like other faces, So neither are the thoughts of men. 
Hell and destruction are not filled; So also are the eyes of men insatiable. 
He that fixes his eye is an abomination to the Lord; And the uninstructed do not restrain their tongue. 
Fire is the trial for silver and gold; And a man is tried by the mouth of them that praise him. 
The heart of the transgressor seeks after mischiefs; But an upright heart seeks knowledge. 
Though thou scourge a fool, disgracing him in the midst of the council, Thou wilt still in nowise remove his folly from him. 
Do thou thoroughly know the number of thy flock, And pay attention to thy herds. 
For a man has not strength and power forever; Neither does he transmit it from generation to generation. 
Take care of the herbage in the field, and thou shalt cut grass, And gather the mountain hay; 
That thou mayest have wool of sheep for clothing: Pay attention to the land, that thou mayest have lambs. 
My son, thou hast from me words very useful for thy life, And for the life of thy servants. 
