Joshua.
Chapter 18.
And all the congregation of the children of Israel were assembled at Shiloh, and there they pitched the tabernacle of witness; and the land was subdued by them. 
And the sons of Israel remained, even those who had not received their inheritance, seven tribes. 
And Joshua said to the sons of Israel, How long will ye be slack to inherit the land, which the Lord our God has given you? 
Appoint of yourselves three men of each tribe, and let them rise up and go through the land, and let them describe it before me, as it will be proper to divide it. 
And they came to him: and he divided to them seven portions, saying, Judah shall stand to them a border southward, and the sons of Joseph shall stand to them northward. 
And do ye divide the land into seven parts, and bring the description hither to me, and I will give you a lot before the Lord our God. 
For the sons of Levi have no part among you; for the priesthood of the Lord is his portion; and Gad, and Reuben, and the half tribe of Manasseh, have received their inheritance beyond Jordan eastward, which Moses the servant of the Lord gave to them. 
And the men rose up and went; and Joshua charged the men who went to explore the land, saying, Go and explore the land, and come to me, and I will bring you forth a lot here before the Lord in Shiloh. 
And they went, and explored the land: and they viewed it, and described it according to the cities, seven parts in a book, and brought the book to Joshua. 
And Joshua cast the lot for them in Shiloh before the Lord. 
And the lot of the tribe of Benjamin came forth first according to their families: and the borders of their lot came forth between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph. 
And their borders were northward: the borders shall go up from Jordan behind Jericho northward, and shall go up to the mountain westward, and the issue of it shall be Beth-aven of Mabdara. 
And the borders will go forth thence to Luz, behind Luz, from the south of it; this is Bethel: and the borders shall go down to Ataroth-addar, to the hill country, which is southward of Beth-horon the lower. 
And the borders shall pass through and proceed to the part that looks toward the sea, on the south, from the mountain in front of Beth-horon southward, and its termination shall be at Kiriath-baal, this is Kiriath-jearim, a city of the children of Judah; this is the part toward the west. 
And the south side on the part of Kiriath-baal; and the borders shall go across to Gasin, to the fountain of the water of Nephtoah. 
And the borders shall extend down on one side, this is in front of the forest of Hinnom, which is on the side of Emec Rephaim northward, and it shall come down to Gai-hinnom behind Jebus southward: it shall come down to the fountain of Rogel. 
And the borders shall go across to the fountain of Beth-shemesh: 
and shall proceed to Geliloth, which is in front by the going up of Adummim; and they shall come down to the stone of Bohan of the sons of Reuben; and shall pass over behind Beth-arabah northward, and shall go down to the borders behind the sea northward. 
And the termination of the borders shall be at the creek of the salt sea northward to the side of Jordan southward: these are their southern borders. 
And Jordan shall be their boundary on the east: this is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, these are their borders round about according to their families. 
And the cities of the children of Benjamin according to their families were Jericho, and Beth-hoglah, and Emek-keziz, 
and Beth-arabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel, 
and Avvim, and Parah, and Ophrah, 
and Carapha, and Cephar, and Ammoni, and Geba, twelve cities and their villages: 
Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth; 
and Massema, and Miron, and Amoke; 
and Phira, and Caphan, and Nacan, and Selecan, and Taralah, 
and Jebus (this is Jerusalem); and Gibeah, Jearim, thirteen cities, and their villages; this is the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin according to their families. 
