Jeremiah.
Chapter 50.
And it came to pass, when Jeremiah ceased speaking to the people all the words of the Lord, for which the Lord had sent him to them, even all these words, 
that Azariah son of Hoshaiah spoke, and Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the men who had spoken to Jeremiah, saying, It is false: the Lord has not sent thee to us, saying, Enter not into Egypt to dwell there: 
but Baruch the son of Neriah sets thee against us, that thou mayest deliver us into the hands of the Chaldeans, to kill us, and that we should be carried away captives to Babylon. 
So Johanan, and all the leaders of the host, and all the people, refused to hearken to the voice of the Lord, to dwell in the land of Judah. 
And Johanan, and all the leaders of the host, took all the remnant of Judah, who had returned to dwell in the land; 
the mighty men, and the women, and the children that were left, and the daughters of the king, and the souls which Nebuzaradan had left with Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, and Jeremiah the prophet, and Baruch the son of Neriah. 
And they came into Egypt: for they hearkened not to the voice of the Lord: and they entered into Tahpanhes. 
And the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes, saying, 
Take thee great stones, and hide them in the entrance, at the gate of the house of Pharaoh in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah: 
and thou shalt say, Thus has the Lord said; Behold, I will send, and will bring Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he shall place his throne upon these stones which thou hast hidden, and he shall lift up weapons against them. 
And he shall enter in, and smite the land of Egypt, delivering some for death to death; and some for captivity to captivity; and some for the sword to the sword. 
And he shall kindle a fire in the houses of their gods, and shall burn them, and shall carry them away captives: and shall search the land of Egypt, as a shepherd searches his garment; and he shall go forth in peace. 
And he shall break to pieces the pillars of Heliopolis that are in On, and shall burn their houses with fire. 
