Job.
Chapter 33.
Howbeit hear, Job, my words, And hearken to my speech. 
For behold, I have opened my mouth, And my tongue has spoken. 
My heart shall be found pure by my words; And the understanding of my lips shall meditate purity. 
The Divine Spirit is that which formed me, And the breath of the Almighty that which teaches me. 
If thou canst, give me an answer: Wait therefore; stand against me, and I will stand against thee. 
Thou art formed out of the clay as also I: We have been formed out of the same substance. 
My fear shall not terrify thee, Neither shall my hand be heavy upon thee. 
But thou hast said in mine ears (I have heard the voice of thy words); Because thou sayest, I am pure, not having sinned; 
I am blameless, for I have not transgressed. 
Yet he has discovered a charge against me, And he has reckoned me as an adversary. 
And he has put my foot in the stocks, And has watched all my ways. 
For how sayest thou, I am righteous, yet he has not hearkened to me? For he that is above mortals is eternal. 
But thou sayest, Why has he not heard every word of my cause? 
For when the Lord speaks once, Or a second time, 
sending a dream, Or in the meditation of the night (As when a dreadful alarm happens to fall upon men, In slumberings on the bed): 
Then opens he the understanding of men: He scares them with such fearful visions: 
To turn a man from unrighteousness, And he delivers his body from a fall. 
He spares also his soul from death, And suffers him not to fall in war. 
And again, he chastens him with sickness on his bed, And the multitude of his bones is benumbed. 
And he shall not be able to take any food, Though his soul shall desire meat; 
Until his flesh shall be consumed, And he shall show his bones bare. 
His soul also draws nigh to death, And his life is in Hades. 
Though there should be a thousand messengers of death, Not one of them shall wound him: If he should purpose in his heart to turn to the Lord, And declare to man his fault, And show his folly; 
He will support him, that he should not perish, And will restore his body as fresh plaster upon a wall; And he will fill his bones with marrow. 
And he will make his flesh tender as that of a babe, And he will restore him among men in his full strength. 
And he shall pray to the Lord, and his prayer shall be accepted of him; He shall enter with a cheerful countenance, with a full expression of praise: For he will render to men their due. 
Even then a man shall blame himself, saying, What kind of things have I done? and he has not punished me according to the full amount of my sins. 
Deliver my soul, that it may not go to destruction, And my life shall see the light. 
Behold, all these things the Mighty One works In a threefold manner with a man. 
And he has delivered my soul from death, That my life may praise him in the light. 
Hearken, Job, and hear me: Be silent, and I will speak. 
If thou hast words, answer me: Speak, for I desire thee to be justified. 
If not, do thou hear me: Be silent, and I will teach thee. 
