Genesis.
Chapter 10.
Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, Japheth; and sons were born to them after the flood. 
The sons of Japheth, Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Elisa, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. 
And the sons of Gomer, Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah. 
And the sons of Javan, Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, Rodanim. 
From these were the islands of the Gentiles divided in their land, each according to his tongue, in their tribes and in their nations. 
And the sons of Ham, Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. 
And the sons of Cush, Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca. And the sons of Raamah, Sheba, and Dedan. 
And Cush begot Nimrod: he began to be a giant upon the earth. 
He was a giant hunter before the Lord God; therefore they say, As Nimrod the giant hunter before the Lord. 
And the beginning of his kingdom was Babylon, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. 
Out of that land came Asshur, and built Nineveh, and the city Rehoboth, and Calah, 
and Resen between Nineveh and Calah: this is the great city. 
And Mizraim begot the Ludim, and the Naphtuhim, and the Anamim, and the Lehabim, 
and the Pathrusim, and the Casluhim (whence came forth Philistines) and the Caphtorim. 
And Canaan begot Sidon his firstborn, and the Hittite, 
and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite, 
and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 
and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite; and after this the tribes of the Canaanites were dispersed. 
And the boundaries of the Canaanites were from Sidon till one comes to Gerar and Gaza, till one comes to Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha. 
These were the sons of Ham in their tribes according to their tongues, in their countries, and in their nations. 
And to Shem himself also were children born, the father of all the sons of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder. 
Sons of Shem, Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram, and Cainan. 
And sons of Aram, Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash. 
And Arpachshad begot Cainan, and Cainan begot Shelah. And Shelah begot Eber. 
And to Eber were born two sons, the name of the one, Peleg, because in his days the earth was divided, and the name of his brother Joktan. 
And Joktan begot Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah, 
and Hadoram, and Aibel, and Diklah, 
and Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba, 
and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab, all these were the sons of Joktan. 
And their dwelling was from Mesha, till one comes to Sephar, a mountain of the east. 
These were the sons of Shem in their tribes, according to their tongues, in their countries, and in their nations. 
These are the tribes of the sons of Noah, according to their generations, according to their nations: of them were the islands of the Gentiles scattered over the earth after the flood. 
