Job.
Chapter 11.
Then Zophar the Minaean answered and said, 
He that speaks much, should also hear on the other side: Or does the fluent speaker think himself to be righteous? Blessed is the short-lived offspring of woman. 
Be not a speaker of many words; For is there none to answer thee? 
For say not, I am pure in my works, And blameless before him. 
But oh that the Lord would speak to thee, And open his lips with thee! 
Then shall he declare to thee the power of wisdom; For it shall be double of that which is with thee: And then shalt thou know, that a just recompense of thy sins has come to thee from the Lord. 
Wilt thou find out the traces of the Lord? Or hast thou come to the end of that which the Almighty has made? 
Heaven is high; and what wilt thou do? And there are deeper things than those in hell; what dost thou know? 
Or longer than the measure of the earth, Or the breadth of the sea. 
And if he should overthrow all things, who will say to him, What hast thou done? 
For he knows the works of transgressors; And when he sees wickedness, he will not overlook it. 
But man vainly buoys himself up with words; And a mortal born of woman is like an ass of the desert. 
For if thou hast made thy heart pure, And liftest up thine hands toward him; 
If there is any iniquity in thy hands, Put it far from thee, And let not unrighteousness lodge in thy habitation. 
For thus shall thy countenance shine again, as pure water; And thou shalt divest thyself of uncleanness, and shalt not fear. 
And thou shalt forget trouble, As a wave that has passed by; and thou shalt not be scared. 
And thy prayer shall be as the morning star, And life shall arise to thee as from the noonday. 
And thou shalt be confident, because thou hast hope; And peace shall dawn to thee from out of anxiety and care. 
For thou shalt be at ease, and there shall be no one to fight against thee; And many shall charge, and make supplication to thee. 
But safety shall fail them; For their hope is destruction, And the eyes of the ungodly shall waste away. 
