Kings I (1 Samuel).
Chapter 1.
There was a man of Ramathaim-zophim, of Mount Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, a son of Jeroham the son of Elihu the son of Tohu, in Nasib Ephraim. 
And he had two wives; the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the second Peninnah. And Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no child. 
And the man went up from year to year from his city, from Ramah, to worship and sacrifice to the Lord God of Sabaoth at Shiloh: and there were Eli and his two sons Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of the Lord. 
And the day came, and Elkanah sacrificed, and gave portions to his wife Peninnah and her children. 
And to Hannah he gave a prime portion, because she had no child, only Elkanah loved Hannah more than the other; but the Lord had closed her womb. 
For the Lord gave her no child in her affliction, and according to the despondency of her affliction; and she was dispirited on this account, that the Lord shut up her womb so as not to give her a child. 
So she did year by year, in going up to the house of the Lord; and she was dispirited, and wept, and did not eat. 
And Elkanah her husband said to her, Hannah: and she said to him, Here am I, my lord: and he said to her, What ails thee that thou weepest? and why dost thou not eat? and why does thy heart smite thee? am I not better to thee than ten children? 
And Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and stood before the Lord: and Eli the priest was on a seat by the threshold of the temple of the Lord. 
And she was very much grieved in spirit, and prayed to the Lord, and wept abundantly. 
And she vowed a vow to the Lord, saying, O Lord God of Sabaoth, if thou wilt indeed look upon the humiliation of thy handmaid, and remember me, and give to thy handmaid a man-child, then will I indeed dedicate him to thee till the day of his death; and he shall drink no wine nor strong drink, and no razor shall come upon his head. 
And it came to pass, while she was long praying before the Lord, that Eli the priest marked her mouth. 
And she was speaking in her heart, and her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: and Eli accounted her a drunken woman. 
And the servant of Eli said to her, How long wilt thou be drunken? take away thy wine from thee, and go out from the presence of the Lord. 
And Hannah answered and said, Nay, my lord, I live in a hard day, and I have not drunk wine or strong drink, and I pour out my soul before the Lord. 
Count not thy handmaid for a pestilent woman, for by reason of the abundance of my importunity I have continued my prayer until now. 
And Eli answered and said to her, Go in peace: the God of Israel give thee all thy petition, which thou hast asked of him. 
And she said, Thine handmaid has found favor in thine eyes: and the woman went her way, and entered into her lodging, and ate and drank with her husband, and her countenance was no more sad. 
And they rise early in the morning, and worship the Lord, and they go their way: and Elkanah went into his house at Ramah, and knew his wife Hannah; and the Lord remembered her, and she conceived. 
And it came to pass when the time was come, that she brought forth a son, and called his name Samuel, and said, Because I asked him of the Lord God of Sabaoth. 
And the man Elkanah and all his house went up to offer in Shiloh the yearly sacrifice, and his vows, and all the tithes of his land. 
But Hannah did not go up with him, for she said to her husband, I will not go up until the child goes up, when I have weaned him, and he shall be presented before the Lord, and he shall abide there continually. 
And Elkanah her husband said to her, Do that which is good in thine eyes, abide still until thou shalt have weaned him; but may the Lord establish that which comes out of thy mouth: and the woman tarried, and suckled her son until she had weaned him. 
And she went up with him to Shiloh with a calf of three years old, and loaves, and an ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine: and she entered into the house of the Lord in Shiloh, and the child with them. 
And they brought him before the Lord; and his father slew his offering which he offered from year to year to the Lord; and he brought near the child, and slew the calf; and Hannah the mother of the child brought him to Eli. 
And she said, I pray thee, my lord, as thy soul liveth, I am the woman that stood in thy presence with thee while praying to the Lord. 
For this child I prayed; and the Lord has given me my request that I asked of him. 
And I lend him to the Lord all his days that he lives, a loan to the Lord: and she said, 
