DANIEL.
Chapter 11.
Forsooth from the first year of Darius of Media, I stood, that he should be comforted, and made strong. 
And now I shall tell to thee the truth. And lo! three kings shall stand yet in Persia, and the fourth shall be made rich with full many riches over all. And when he hath waxed strong by his riches, he shall raise all men against the realm of Greece. 
Forsooth a strong king shall rise, and shall be lord in great power, and shall do that, that shall please him. 
And when he shall stand, his realm shall be all-broken, and it shall be parted into four winds of heaven, but not into his heirs, neither by the power of him in which he was lord; for his realm shall be rent, yea, into strangers besides these. 
And the king of the south shall be comforted; and of the princes of him, one shall have power above him, and he shall be lord in power; for why his lordship shall be much. 
And after the end of years they shall be knit in peace; and the daughter of the king of the south shall come to the king of the north, to make friendship. And she shall not get strength of arm, neither the seed of her shall stand; and she shall be betaken, and the younglings of her that brought her, and he that comforted her in these times. 
And a planting of the seed of the roots of her shall stand; and he shall come with an host, and shall enter into the province of the king of the north, and he shall misuse them, and he shall get the victory; 
furthermore he shall get both the gods of them, and graven images. And he shall lead into Egypt the precious vessels of gold, and of silver, taken in battle. He shall have the mastery against the king of the north; 
and the king of the south shall enter into the realm, and shall turn again to his land. 
Forsooth the sons of him shall be stirred to wrath, and they shall gather together a multitude of full many coasts. And he shall come hasting and flowing, and he shall turn again, and shall be stirred, and shall begin battle with his stronghold. 
And the king of the south shall be stirred to wrath, and shall go out, and shall fight against the king of the north, and shall make ready a full great multitude; and the multitude shall be given into his hand. 
And he shall take the multitude, and his heart shall be enhanced; and he shall cast down many thousands, but he shall not have the mastery. 
For the king of the north shall turn again, and shall make ready a multitude, much more than before; and in the end of times and of years he shall come hasting with a full great host, and with full many riches. 
And in those times many men shall rise together against the king of the south; and the sons of trespassers of thy people shall be enhanced, that they ful fill the vision, and they shall fall down. 
And the king of the north shall come, and shall bear together heaps of earth, and he shall take strongest cities; and the arms of the south shall not sustain. And the chosen men thereof shall rise together, to against-stand, and their strength shall not be enough. 
And he shall come up on him, and shall do by his will; and none shall be that shall stand against his face. And he shall stand in the noble land, and it shall be wasted in his hand. 
And he shall set his face, that he come to hold all the realm of him, and he shall do rightful things with him. And he shall give to him the daughter of women, to destroy him; and it shall not stand, and it shall not be his. 
And he shall turn his face to isles, and shall take many isles. And he shall make cease the prince of his shame, and his shame shall turn again into him. 
And he shall turn his face to the lordship of his land, and he shall stumble, and fall down, and he shall not be found. 
And the vilest and unworthy to the king’s honour shall stand in the place of him, and in few days he shall be all-broken, not in strong vengeance, neither in battle. 
And a despised man shall stand in the place of him, and the honour of a king shall not be given to him; and he shall come privily, and he shall get the realm by guile. 
And the arms or armies of the fighter shall be overcome of his face, and shall be all-broken, furthermore and the duke of bond of peace. 
And after friendship with him, he shall do guile. And he shall ascend or go up, and shall overcome with little or few people; 
and he shall enter into great and rich cities, and he shall do things which his fathers, and the fathers of his fathers, did not. He shall destroy the ravens, and prey, and riches of them, and against most steadfast thoughts he shall take counsel, and this till to a time. 
And the strength of him, and the heart of him shall be stirred against the king of the south with a great host. And the king of the south shall be stirred to battle with many helps and full strong; and they shall not stand, for they shall take counsels against him. 
And they that eat bread with him shall all-break him; and his host shall be oppressed, and full many men of his shall be slain, and fall down. 
And the heart of two kings shall be, that they do evil, and at one board they shall speak leasing, and they shall not profit; for yet the end shall be into another time. 
And he shall turn again into his land with many riches, and his heart shall be against the holy testament, and he shall do, and shall turn again into his land. 
In time ordained he shall turn again, and shall come to the south, and the last shall not be like the former. 
And ships with three orders of oars, and Romans, shall come up on him, and he shall be smitten. And he shall turn again, and shall have indignation against the testament of the saintuary, and he shall do. And he shall turn again, and he shall think against them that forsook the testament of the saintuary. 
And the arms or armies of him shall stand, and shall defoul the saintuary of strength, and shall take away the continual sacrifice, and shall give abomination into desolation. 
And wicked men shall feign the testament guilefully; but the people that knoweth their God shall hold, and do. 
And taught men in the people shall teach full many men, and shall fall in sword, and in flame, and into captivity, and into raven of days. 
And when they have fallen down, they shall be raised up by a little help; and full many men shall be applied or joined to them guilefully. 
And some of learned men shall fall, that they be welled together, and be chosen, and be made white till to a time determined; for yet another time shall be. 
And the king shall do by his will, and he shall be raised up, and magnified against each god, and against God of gods he shall speak great things; and he shall be addressed, till wrathfulness or wrath be ful filled. For the determining is perfectly made. 
And he shall not areckon with the God of his fathers, and he shall be in the covetousness of women, and he shall not charge or reckon any of gods, for he shall rise against all things. 
Forsooth he shall honour god of Maoozim in his place, and he shall worship a god, whom his fathers knew not, with gold, and silver, and precious stone, and precious things. 
And he shall do that he make strong Maoozim, with the alien god which he knew. And he shall multiply glory, and shall give power to them in many things; and shall part the land at his will. 
And in the time determined the king of the south shall fight against him, and the king of the north shall come as a tempest against him, in chariots, and with knights, and in great navy. And he shall enter into lands, and shall defoul them; and he shall pass forth, 
and shall enter into the glorious land, and many shall fall. Forsooth these lands alone shall be saved from his hand, Edom, and Moab, and the princes of the sons of Ammon. 
And he shall send his hand into lands, and the land of Egypt shall not escape. 
And he shall be lord of treasures of gold, and of silver, and in all precious things of Egypt; also he shall pass by Libya and Ethiopia. 
And fame or news from the east and from the north shall disturb him; and he shall come with a great multitude to all-break, and to slay full many men. 
And he shall set his tabernacles in Apadno, betwixt the seas, on the noble hill and holy; and he shall come till to the height thereof, and no man shall help him. 
