GENESIS.
Chapter 1.
In the beginning God made of nought heaven and earth. 
Forsooth the earth was idle and void, and darknesses were on the face of depth; and the Spirit of the Lord was borne on the waters or the Spirit of God was borne upon the waters. 
And God said, Light be made, and the light was made. 
And God saw the light, that it was good, and he parted the light from darknesses; 
and he called the light, day, and the darknesses, night. And the eventide and the morrowtide was made, one day. 
And God said, The firmament be made in the midst of waters, and part waters from waters. 
And God made the firmament, and parted the waters that were under the firmament, from the waters that were on the firmament or that were above the firmament; and it was done so. 
And God called the firmament, heaven. And the eventide and the morrowtide was made, the second day. 
Forsooth God said, The waters, that be under heaven, be gathered into one place, and a dry place appear; and it was done so. 
And God called the dry place, earth; and he called the gatherings together of waters, the seas. And God saw that it was good; 
and said, The earth bring forth green herb, and making seed, and an apple tree making fruit by his kind, whose seed be in itself, on the earth; and it was done so. 
And the earth brought forth green herb and making seed by his kind, and a tree making fruit, and each having seed by his kind. And God saw that it was good. 
And the eventide and the morrowtide was made, the third day. 
Forsooth God said, Lights be made in the firmament of heaven, and part they the day and night; and be they into signs, and times, and days, and years; 
and shine those in the firmament of heaven, and lighten they the earth; and it was done so. 
And God made two great lights, the greater light that it should be before to the day, and the lesser light that it should be before to the night; and God made stars; 
and setted them in the firmament of heaven, that they should shine on the earth, 
and that they should be before to the day and to the night, and should part light and darkness. And God saw that it was good. 
And the eventide and the morrow-tide was made, the fourth day. 
Also God said, The waters bring forth a reptile, either a creeping beast, of living soul, and a volatile, either a bird flying above the earth, under the firmament of heaven. 
And God made of nought great whales, and each living soul and movable, which the waters have brought forth in their kinds; and God made of nought each volatile by his kind. And God saw that it was good; 
and blessed them, and said, Wax ye, and be ye multiplied, and fill ye the waters of the sea, and the birds be multiplied on the earth. 
And the eventide and the morrowtide was made, the fifth day. 
And God said, The earth bring forth a living soul in his kind, work beasts, and reptiles, either creeping beasts, and unreasonable beasts of the earth, by their kinds; and it was done so. 
And God made unreasonable beasts of the earth by their kinds, and work beasts, and each creeping beast of the earth in his kind. And God saw that it was good; 
and said, Make we man to our image and likeness, and be he sovereign to the fishes of the sea, and to the volatiles of heaven, and to the unreasonable beasts of the earth, and to each creature, and to each creeping beast or each reptile, which is moved in the earth. 
And God made of nought a man to his image and likeness; God made of nought a man, to the image of God; God made of nought them, male and female. 
And God blessed them, and said, Increase ye, and be ye multiplied, and fill ye the earth, and make ye it subject; and be ye lords to the fishes of the sea, and to the volatiles of heaven, and to all living beasts that be moved on the earth. 
And God said, Lo! I have given to you each herb bearing seed on the earth, and all trees that have in themselves the seed of their kind, that they be into meat to you; 
and to all living beasts of the earth, and to each bird of heaven, and to all things that be moved in the earth, and in which is a living soul, that they have to eat; and it was done so. 
And God saw all things which he made, and they were full good. And the eventide and the morrowtide was made, the sixth day. 
