HOSEA.
Chapter 7.
When I would heal Israel, the wickedness of Ephraim was showed, and the malice of Samaria was showed, for they wrought leasing. And a night thief entered, and robbed; a day thief was withoutforth. 
And lest they say in their hearts, that I have mind on all the malice of them, now their findings have encom-passed them, those be made before my face. 
In their malice they gladded the king, and in their leasings the princes. 
All that do adultery, be as an oven made hot of a baker. The city rested a little from the meddling or mingling together of sourdough, till all was made sour. 
The day of our king, the princes began to be wild of wine; he stretched forth his hand with scorners. 
For they applied or made ready their heart as an oven, when he setted treason to them. All the night he slept while baking them; in the morrowtide he was made hot, as the fire of flame. 
All were made hot as an oven, and they devoured their judges. All the kings of them fell down, and none is among them that crieth to me. 
Ephraim himself was meddled or mingled together among peoples; Ephraim was made a loaf baken under ashes, which is not turned again. 
Aliens ate the strength of him, and he knew not; but also hoar hairs were shed out in him, and he knew not. 
And the pride of Israel shall be made low in the face thereof; they turned not again to their Lord God, and they sought not him in all these things. 
And Ephraim was made like to a culver deceived, not having heart. They called Egypt to help, they went to Assyrians. 
And when they be gone forth, I shall spread abroad on them my net, I shall draw them down as a bird of the air. I shall beat them, by the hearing of the company of them. 
Woe to them for they went away from me; they shall be destroyed, for they trespassed against me. And I again-bought them, and they spake leasings against me. 
And they cried not to me in their heart, but yelled in their beds. They chewed cud on wheat, and wine, and they went away from me. 
And I taught, and comforted the arms of them, and they thought malice against me. 
They turned again, that they should be without yoke; they be made as a guileful bow. The princes of them shall fall down by sword for the strong vengeance of their tongue; this is the scorning of them in the land of Egypt. 
