1ST SAMUEL.
Chapter 5.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and bare it away from the stone of help into Ashdod. 
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the temple of Dagon, and setted it beside Dagon. 
And when men of Ashdod had risen early in the tother day, lo! Dagon lay low in the earth before the ark of the Lord. And they took Dagon, and restored him in his place. 
And again they rose early in the tother day, and they found Dagon lying on his face upon the earth before the ark of the Lord. And the head of Dagon, and the two palms of his hands, were broken off, and were lying upon the threshold; and the stock alone of Dagon was left in his place. 
For this cause the priests of Dagon, and all that enter into his temple, tread not upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day. 
Forsooth the hand of the Lord was made grievous upon the men of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and he smote Ashdod and the coasts thereof in the privier part of the buttocks or in the more privy part of their tail ends. 
And men of Ashdod saw such a vengeance, and they said, The ark of God of Israel dwell not with us; for his hand is hard on us, and on Dagon our god. 
And they sent, and gathered all the wise men, either princes, of Philistines to them, and said, What shall we do of the ark of God of Israel? And the men of Gath answered, The ark of God of Israel be led about; and they led about the ark of God of Israel. 
And while they led it about, the hand of the Lord was made upon all the cities about, of full great slaughter; and he smote men of each city, from a little man till to the more, and the lower entrails of them waxed rotten, and came forth; and men of Gath took counsel, and they made to them-selves seats of skins, either cushions. 
Therefore they sent the ark of the Lord into Ekron. And when the ark of the Lord had come into Ekron, men of Ekron cried out, and said, They have brought to us the ark of God of Israel, that he slay us and our people. 
Then they sent, and gathered together all the wise men, either princes, of Philistines; which said, Deliver ye the ark of God of Israel, and turn it again into his place, and slay not us with our people. For dread of death was made in all the cities, and the hand of the Lord was full grievous. 
And the men, that were not dead, were smitten in the privy parts of their buttocks, and the yelling of each city went up into heaven. 
