EZEKIEL.
Chapter 47.
And he turned me to the gate of the house of the Lord; and lo! waters went out from under the threshold of the house to the east; for the face of the house beheld to the east; forsooth the waters came down into the right side of the temple, to the south part of the altar. 
And he led me out by the way of the north gate, and he turned me to the way without the outermore gate, to the way that beholdeth to the east; and lo! waters flowing from the right side, 
when the man that had a cord in his hand went out to the east. And he meted a thousand cubits, and led me over through the water till to the heels. 
And again he meted a thousand, and led me over through the water till to the knees. And again he meted a thousand, and led me over through the water till to the reins. 
And he meted a thousand, by the strand or stream which I might not pass over; for the deep waters of the strand had waxed great, that may not be waded over. 
And he said to me, Certainly, son of man, thou hast seen. And he led me, and he turned me to the river of the strand or stream. 
And when I had turned me, lo! in the river of the strand or stream full many trees on ever either side. 
And he said to me, These waters that go out to the heaps of sand of the east, and go down into the plain places of desert, shall enter into the sea, and shall go out; and the waters shall be healed. 
And each living beast that creep-eth, shall live, whither ever the strand or stream shall come; and fishes many enough shall be, after that these waters come thither, and they shall be healed, and shall live; all things to which the strand or stream shall come, shall live. 
And fishers shall stand on those waters; from Engedi till to Eneglaim shall be drying of nets; full many kinds of fishes thereof shall be, as the fishes of the great sea, of full great multitude; 
but in the brinks thereof and in marishes waters shall not be healed, for those or they shall be given into places of making of salt. 
And each tree bearing fruit shall grow on the strand or stream, in the rivers thereof on each side; a leaf thereof shall not fall down, and the fruit thereof shall not fail; by all months it shall bear first fruits, for the waters thereof shall go out of the saintuary; and the fruits thereof shall be into meat, and the leaves thereof to medicine. 
The Lord God saith these things, This is the end, in which ye shall wield the land, in the twelve lineages of Israel; for Joseph hath double part. 
Forsooth ye shall wield it, each man evenly as his brother; on which I raised mine hand, that I should give to your fathers; and this land shall fall to you into possession. 
This is the end of the land at the north coast, from the great sea, the way of Hethlon, to men coming to Zedad, 
Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is in the midst betwixt Damascus and the nigh coasts of Hamath, to the house of Hatticon, which is beside the ends of Hauran. 
And the end shall be from the sea till to the porch of Enan, the end of Damascus, and from the north till to the north, the end of Hamath; forsooth this is the north coast. 
Certainly the east coast from the midst of Hauran, and from the midst of Damascus, and from the midst of Gilead, and from the midst of the land of Israel, is Jordan, parting at the east sea, also ye shall mete the east coast. 
Forsooth the south coast of midday is from Tamar till to the waters of against-saying of Kadesh; and the strand or stream till to the great sea, and the south coast of midday. 
And the coast of the sea is the great sea, from the nigh coast by the straight, till thou come to Hamath; this is the coast of the sea. 
And ye shall part this land to you by the lineages of Israel; 
and ye shall send it into heritage to you, and to comelings that come to you, that engendered sons in the midst of you; and they shall be to you as men born in the land among the sons of Israel; with you they shall part possession, in the midst of the line-ages of Israel. 
Forsooth in whatever lineage a comeling is, there ye shall give possession to him, saith the Lord God. 
