TOBIT.
Chapter 7.
Forsooth they entered or went in to Raguel; and Raguel received them with joy. 
And Raguel beheld Tobias, and said to Edna, his wife, This young man is full like my sister’s son or How like is this young man to our aunt’s son. 
And when he had said these things, he said, Of whence be ye, young men, our brethren? And they said, We be of the lineage of Naphtali, of the captivity of Nineveh. 
And Raguel said to them, Know ye Tobit, my brother? And they answered, We know him. 
And when he spake many good things of Tobit, the angel said to Raguel, Tobit, of whom thou askest, is the father of this man. 
Then Raguel bowed down himself, and with tears he kissed Tobias, and he wept on his neck, 
and said, My son, blessing be to thee; for thou art the son of a good and a full noble man. 
And Edna, his wife, and Sarah, their daughter, wept. 
And after that they had spoken thus, Raguel commanded a wether to be slain, and a feast to be made ready. And when Raguel moved them to sit down to meat, 
Tobias said, I shall not eat, neither drink here today, no but thou confirm first mine asking, and thou promise to give to me Sarah, thy daughter to wife. 
And when this word was heard, Raguel dreaded, witting what befelled to those seven men; and he began to dread, lest peradventure it should befall in like manner to this Tobias, and he die. And when he doubted, or mused in this manner, and gave none answer to the asker, 
the angel said to him, Do not thou dread to give her to this man; for thy daughter oweth to be given to this man dreading God; therefore another man might not have her. 
Then Raguel said, I doubt not, that God hath received my prayers and my tears in his sight. 
And I believe, that therefore the Lord made you to come to me, that also this woman should be joined to her kindred by or after the law of Moses; and now, Tobias, do not thou bear any doubt, that I shall give her to thee. 
And he took the right hand of his daughter, and gave to the right hand of Tobias, and said, God of Abraham, and God of Isaac, and God of Jacob, be with you, and he join you together, and he full-fill his blessing in you. 
And they took a charter, and they made together a writing of witnessing of the marriage. And the charter taken, they made the conscription of the wedlock. 
And after these things they plente-ously ate, and blessed God. 
And Raguel called to him Edna, his wife, and commanded to her to make ready another bed-place. 
And she led Sarah, her daughter, in to it, and Sarah wept; and Edna said to her, My daughter, be thou of strong wit; the Lord of heaven give to thee joy, for the annoyance that thou hast suffered. 
