ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 51.
Lord King, I shall acknowledge to thee; and I shall altogether praise thee, God my Saviour. I shall ac-knowledge to thy name, 
for thou art made an helper and defender to me; and thou hast delivered my body from perdition, from the snare of a wicked tongue, and from the lips of them that work a leasing; and in the sight of them that stand nigh, thou art made an helper to me. 
And thou hast delivered me, by or after the multitude of mercy of thy name, from roarers or roaring men made ready to meat; from the hands of them that sought my soul, and from many tribulations that encompassed or environed me; 
from over-laying of flame that en-compassed me, and in the midst of the fire I was not burnt; 
from the depth of the womb of hell, and from a tongue defouled or the defouled tongue and from a word of leasing; 
from a wicked king, and from a tongue unjust or unrightwise tongue. Unto the death, my soul shall praise thee, Lord; and my life was nighing in hell beneath. 
They encompassed me on each side, and none was that helped; I was beholding into the help of men, and none was or there was not. 
Lord, I had mind on thy mercy, and on thy working altogether, that be from the world; for thou deliverest them that abide thee, and thou deliverest them from the hands of heathen men. 
Thou enhancedest my dwelling on the earth; and I besought for death floating or flowing down. 
I called to help the Lord, Father of my Lord, that he forsake not me in the day of my tribulation, and forsake not me without help, in the time of them that be proud. 
I shall praise thy name contin-ually, and I shall praise it altogether in acknowledging or confession; and my prayer is heard. 
And thou hast delivered me from perdition, and thou hast delivered me from the wicked time. Therefore I shall acknowledge, and I shall say praising to thee; and I shall bless the name of the Lord. 
When yet I was younger, before that I erred, I sought wisdom openly in my prayer. 
Before the time of eld age, I asked for it, and unto the last things, I shall inquire foror greatly seek it; 
and it shall flower as a grape ripe before others or a first ripe grape. Mine heart was glad therein, my foot went a rightful or right way; from my youth I sought or ensearched it. 
I bowed down a little mine ear, and I took it. I found much wisdom in myself, 
and I profited much therein. I shall give glory to him, that giveth wisdom to me. 
For why I took counsel to do it; I loved fervently good or greatly I loved good, and I shall not be ashamed. 
My soul wrestled together therein; and I was confirmed in doing it. I stretched forth mine hands on high; and my soul shined in the wisdom of him, and he enlightened mine un-knowings. 
I dressed my soul to it; and I found it in knowing. I had peaceably from the beginning an heart with those or them, that is, works either enlightenings of wisdom; for this thing I shall not be forsaken. 
My soul was disturbed in seeking it; therefore I shall have peaceably a good possession. 
For why the Lord gave to me a tongue for my meed; and in it I shall praise him. 
Ye untaught men, nigh to me; and gather ye you into the house of teaching. 
What tarry ye yet? or What yet ye tarry? and what say ye in these things? your souls thirst greatly. 
I opened my mouth, and I spake, Buy ye wisdom to you without silver, 
and make your neck subject to the yoke thereof, and your soul receive teaching; for why it is in the next to find it. 
See ye with your eyes, that I travailed a little, and I found much rest to me. 
Take ye teaching in much number of silver, and wield ye plenteous gold therein. 
Your soul be glad in the mercy of him; and ye shall not be ashamed in the praising of him. 
Work ye your work before the time; and he shall give to you your meed in his time. 
