LEVITICUS.
Chapter 27.
And the Lord spake to Moses and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, A man that maketh a vow, and promiseth his soul to God, he shall give the price under value, either appraising thereof. 
If it is a male, from the twentieth year till to the sixtieth year, he shall give fifty shekels of silver, at the measure of the saintuary, 
if it is a woman, she shall give thirty shekels; 
forsooth from the fifth year till to the twentieth year, a male shall give twenty shekels, a woman shall give ten shekels; 
from one month till to the fifth year, five shekels shall be given for a male, three shekels for a woman; 
a male of sixty years and over shall give fifteen shekels, a woman shall give ten shekels. 
If it is a poor man, and he may not yield the value, he shall stand before the priest, and as much as the priest appraiseth, and seeth that the poor man may yield, so much he shall give. 
Soothly if any man avoweth a beast, that may be offered to the Lord, it shall be holy, 
and it shall not be able to be changed, that is, neither a better for a worse, neither an evil for a good; and if he changeth it, both that, that is changed, and that, for which it is changed, shall be hallowed to the Lord. 
Soothly if any man avoweth an unclean beast, that may not be offered to the Lord, it shall be brought before the priest, 
and the priest shall deem whether it is good either evil, and he shall set the price; 
which price, if he that offereth will not give, he shall add the fifth part over the value. 
If a man avoweth his house, and halloweth it to the Lord, the priest shall behold, whether it is good either evil, and by the price which is ordained of him, it shall be sold; 
soothly if he that avowed will again-buy it, he shall give the fifth part of the value above, and he shall have the house. 
That if a man avoweth the field of his possession, and halloweth it to the Lord, the price shall be deemed by the measure of the seed; if the field is sown with thirty bushels of barley, it shall be sold for fifty shekels of silver. 
If he avoweth the field anon from the year of the beginning of the jubilee, as much as it may be worth, by so much it shall be appraised; 
but if it be after some part of time, the priest shall reckon, either determine, the money by the number of the years that be left till to the jubilee, and it shall be withdrawn of the price. 
That if he that avowed will again-buy the field, he shall add the fifth part of the money that is appraised, and he shall wield it; 
but if he will not again-buy it, but it is sold to any other man, he that avowed it shall never be able to again-buy it; 
for when the day of jubilee cometh, that field shall be hallowed to the Lord, and the possession hallowed pertaineth to the right of priests. 
If the field is bought, and is not of the possession of greater men, that is, of ancestors, and it is hallowed to the Lord, 
the priest shall determine the price by the number of years till to the jubilee, and he that avowed the field shall give the price thereof to the Lord; 
forsooth in the jubilee it shall turn again to the former lord that sold it, and he shall have it into the heritage of his possession. 
All the appraising, or value, shall be weighed by the shekel of the saintuary; a shekel hath twenty half-pence. 
No man may hallow and avow the first engendered things that pertain to the Lord, whether it is ox, or sheep, they be the Lord’s part. 
That if the beast is unclean that is avowed, he that offered it shall again-buy it after the value that it is appraised, and he shall add to the fifth part of the price; if he will not again-buy it, it shall be sold to another man, for as much as it is appraised. 
All thing that is hallowed to the Lord, whether it is man, or beast, whether field of his heritage, it shall not be sold, neither it shall be able to be again-bought; whatever thing is hallowed once, it shall be holy of holy things to the Lord, 
and each hallowing which is offered of man, shall not be again-bought, but it shall die by death. 
All the tithes of the earth, whether of fruits of corn, whether of apples of trees, be the Lord’s part, and be hallowed to him; 
soothly if any man will again-buy his tithes, he shall add to the fifth part of those or them; 
of all the tithes of sheep, and of oxen, and of goats, that pass under the shepherd’s rod, whatever thing cometh to the tenth part, it shall be hallowed to the Lord; 
it shall not be chosen, neither good, neither evil; neither it shall be changed for another; if any man changeth it, both that, that is changed, and that, for which it is changed, shall be hallowed to the Lord, and it shall not be again-bought. 
These be the commandments which the Lord commanded to Moses, and to the sons of Israel, in the hill or mount of Sinai. 
