DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 27.
And Moses commanded, and the elder men, to the people of Israel, and said, Keep ye each commandment which I command to you today. 
And when ye have passed over Jordan, into the land which thy Lord God shall give to thee, thou shalt raise great stones, and thou shalt make them plane with chalk, 
that thou may write in them all the words of this law, when Jordan is passed over, that thou enter into the land which thy Lord God shall give to thee, the land flowing with milk and honey, as he promised to thy fathers. 
Therefore when thou hast passed over Jordan, raise thou up the stones which I command today to thee, in the hill or mount of Ebal; and thou shalt make them plane with chalk. 
And there thou shalt build an altar to thy Lord God, of stones which iron touched not, 
and of stones unformed and un-polished; and thou shalt offer thereon burnt sacrifices to thy Lord God; 
and thou shalt offer peaceable sacrifices, and thou shalt eat there, and thou shalt make feast before thy Lord God. 
And thou shalt write plainly and clearly on the stones all the words of this law. 
And Moses and the priests of the kindred of Levi said to all Israel, Israel, take heed thou, and hear; today thou art made the people of thy Lord God; 
thou shalt hear his voice, and thou shalt do the commandments, and his rightwisenesses, which I command to thee today. 
And Moses commanded to the people in that day, and said, 
These men shall stand upon the hill of Gerizim to bless the Lord, when Jordan they have over-passed; Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin. 
And even against, these men shall stand in the hill of Ebal to curse; Reuben, Gad, and Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali. 
And the deacons or Levites shall pronounce, and shall say with high voice to all the men of Israel, 
Cursed is the man that maketh a graven image and molten, abomination of the Lord, the work of the hands of craftsmen, and shall set it in a privy place; and all the people shall answer, and say, Amen! 
He is cursed that honoureth not, or despiseth, his father and mother; and all the people shall say, Amen! 
Cursed is he that over-beareth, or undoeth, the terms of his neighbour; and all the people shall say, Amen! 
Cursed is he that maketh a blind man to err in the way; and all the people shall say, Amen! 
He is cursed that perverteth the doom of a comeling, of a fatherless, either motherless child, and of a widow; and all the people shall say, Amen! 
Cursed is that sleepeth with his father’s wife, and showeth the privates of his bed; and all the people shall say, Amen! 
Cursed is he that sleepeth with any beast; and all the people shall say, Amen! 
Cursed is he that sleepeth with his sister, the daughter of his father, either of his mother; and all the people shall say, Amen! 
Cursed is he that sleepeth with his wife’s mother; and all the people shall say, Amen! 
Cursed is he that slayeth privily his neighbour; and all the people shall say, Amen! Cursed is he that sleepeth with his neighbour’s wife; and all the people shall say, Amen! 
Cursed is he that taketh gifts, that he smite the life of innocent blood; and all the people shall say, Amen! 
Cursed is he that abideth not in the words of this law, neither fulfilleth them in work; and all the people shall say, Amen! 
