JOB.
Chapter 19.
Forsooth Job answered, and said, 
How long torment ye my soul, and all-break me with words? 
Lo! ten times ye have shamed me, and ye be not ashamed, oppressing me. 
Forsooth and if I know not or if I am uncunning, mine unknowing shall be with me. 
And ye be raised against me, and reprove me with my shames. 
Namely now understand ye, that God hath tormented me not by even doom, and hath encompassed me with his beatings. 
Lo! I suffering violence shall cry, and no man shall hear me; I shall cry loud, and there is none that deemeth me worthy to be heard. 
The Lord hath beset about my path, and I may not go; and he hath set darknesses in my way. 
He hath spoiled me of my glory, and hath taken away the crown from mine head. 
He hath destroyed me on each side, and I perished; and he hath taken away mine hope, as from a tree pulled up by the root. 
His strong vengeance was wroth against me; and he had me so as his enemy. 
His thieves came together, and made to them a way by me; and besieged my tabernacle in compass. 
He made a far my brethren from me; and my known as aliens went away from me. 
My neighbours have forsaken me; and they that knew me have forgotten me. 
The tenants of mine house, and mine handmaids, had me as a stranger; and I was as a pilgrim before their eyes. 
I called my servant, and he answered not to me; with mine own mouth I prayed him. 
My wife loathed my breath; and I prayed the sons of my womb. 
Also fools despised me; and when I was gone away from them, they backbited me. 
They, that were my counsellors sometime, had abomination of me; and he, whom I loved most, was adversary to me. 
When my fleshes were wasted, my bones cleaved to my skin; and only the lips be left about my teeth. 
Have ye mercy on me, have ye mercy on me, namely, ye my friends; for the hand of the Lord hath touched me. 
Why pursue ye me, as God pursueth; and ye be fulfilled with my fleshes? 
Who giveth, or granteth, to me, that my words be written? Who giveth to me, that those or they be written in a book, 
with an iron pointel, either with a piece of lead; either with a chisel those or they be engraved in a flint? 
For I know, that mine again-buyer liveth, and in the last day I shall rise from the earth; 
and again I shall be encompassed with my skin, and in my flesh I shall see God, my saviour. 
Whom I myself shall see, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another man. This mine hope is kept in my bosom, that is, in mine heart. 
Why therefore say ye now, Pursue we him, and find we the root of a word against him? 
Therefore flee ye from the face of the sword; for the sword is the avenger of wickednesses, and know ye, that doom shall be. 
