PSALMS.
Chapter 51.
To victory, the psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet came to him, when he entered to Bathsheba. God, have thou mercy on me; by thy great mercy. And by the muchliness of thy merciful doings; do thou away my wickedness. 
Moreover wash thou me from my wickedness; and cleanse thou me from my sin. 
For I acknowledge my wickedness; and my sin is evermore against me. 
I have sinned to thee alone, and I have done evil before thee; that thou be justified in thy words, and overcome when thou art deemed. 
For lo! I was conceived in wicked-nesses; and my mother conceived me in sins. 
For lo! thou lovedest truth; thou hast showed to me the uncertain things, and privy things of thy wisdom. 
Lord, sprinkle thou me with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed; wash thou me, and I shall be made white more than snow. 
Give thou joy, and gladness to mine hearing; and bones made meek shall full out make joy. 
Turn away thy face from my sins; and do away all my wickednesses. 
God, make thou a clean heart in me; and make thou new a rightful spirit in my entrails. 
Cast thou me not away from thy face; and take thou not away from me thine holy spirit. 
Give thou to me the gladness of thine health; and confirm thou me with the principal spirit. 
I shall teach wicked men thy ways; and unfaithful men shall be converted to thee. 
God, the God of mine health, deliver thou me from bloods, or sins; and my tongue shall joyfully sing of thy rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
Lord, open thou my lips; and my mouth shall tell thy praising. 
For if thou haddest would or desired sacrifice, I had given it; truly thou shalt not delight in burnt sacrifice. 
A sacrifice to God is a spirit troubled, that is, sorry for sin; God, thou shalt not despise a contrite heart, and made meek. 
Lord, do thou benignly in thy good will to Zion; that the walls of Jerusalem be builded. 
Then thou shalt take pleasantly the sacrifice of rightfulness or rightwise-ness, offerings, and burnt sacrifices; then they shall put calves on thine altar. 
