PSALMS.
Chapter 50.
The psalm of Asaph. God, the Lord of gods or God of gods, spake; and called the earth, from the rising of the sun till to the going down. 
The shape of his fairness from Zion, God shall come openly; 
our God, and he shall not be still. Fire shall burn on high in his sight; and a strong tempest in his compass. 
He called heaven above; and the earth, to witness him deem his people. 
Gather ye to him his saints; that ordain his testament above sacrifices. 
And heavens shall show his rightwiseness or tell his rightfulness; for God is the judge. 
My people, hear thou, and I shall speak to Israel; and I shall witness to thee, I am God, thy God. 
I shall not reprove thee in thy sacrifices; and thy burnt sacrifices be evermore before me. 
I shall not take calves of thine house; neither goat bucks of thy flocks. 
For all the wild beasts of woods be mine; work beasts, and oxes or oxen in hills. 
I have known all the volatiles of the firmament; and the fairness of the field is with me. 
If I shall be hungry, I shall not say to thee; for the world and the fullness thereof is mine. 
Whether I shall eat the flesh of bulls? either shall I drink the blood of goat bucks? 
Offer thou to God the sacrifice of praising; and yield thine avows or vows to the highest God. 
And inwardly call thou me in the day of tribulation; and I shall deliver thee, and thou shalt honour me. 
But God said to the sinner, Why tellest thou out my rightfulnesses; and takest my testament by thy mouth? 
Soothly thou hatedest lore, or discipline; and hast cast away my words behind thee. 
If thou sawest a thief, thou rannest with him; and thou settedest thy part with adulterers. 
Thy mouth was plenteous of malice; and thy tongue meddled together guiles or treacheries. 
Thou sitting spakest against thy brother, and thou settedest slander against the son of thy mother; 
thou didest these things, and I was still. Thou guessedest wickedly, that I shall be like thee; I shall reprove thee, and I shall set against thy face. 
Ye that forget God, understand these things; lest sometime he ravish, and none be that shall deliver. 
The sacrifice of praising shall honour me; and there is the way, wherein I shall show to him the health of God. 
