EXODUS.
Chapter 37.
Forsooth Bezaleel made also an ark of the wood of shittim, having two cubits and an half in length, and a cubit and an half in breadth; forsooth the height was of one cubit and an half; 
and he covered the ark with purest gold, within and withoutforth. And he made to it a golden crown by compass, 
and he melted out four golden rings, to be set by the four corners thereof, two rings in one side, and two rings in the other side. 
And he made bars of the wood of shittim, or acacia wood, the which he covered with gold, 
and which bars he put into the rings that were in the sides of the ark, to bear it. 
He made also a propitiatory, that is, God’s answering place, of purest gold, of two cubits and an half in length, and one cubit and an half in breadth. 
Also he made two cherubims or cherubim of gold, beaten out with an hammer, which he set on ever either side of the propitiatory, 
one cherub in the height of the one part, and the tother cherub in the height of the tother part; two cherubims or cherubim, one in each highness of the propitiatory, 
stretching out the wings, and covering the propitiatory, and beholding themselves together, and that propitiatory. 
He made also a board of the wood of shittim, in the length of two cubits, and in the breadth of one cubit, which board had a cubit and an half in height. 
And he compassed the table with cleanest gold, and made to it a golden brink by compass; 
and he made to that brink a golden crown, raised betwixt of four fingers; and on the same crown he made another golden crown. 
Also he melted out four golden rings, which he put into the four corners, by all the feet of the table against the crown, 
and he put bars into the circles, or rings, that the table might be borne. 
And he made the bars of the wood of shittim, and compassed those or them with gold. 
And he madethe vessels to diverse uses of the board, vessels of vinegar, vials, and little cups, and censers of pure gold, in which the flowing sacrifices shall be offered. 
And he made a candlestick, beaten out with an hammer, of cleanest gold, of whose stock, rods, cups, and little roundels or balls, and lilies came forth; 
six in ever either side, three rods on one side, and three on the other side; 
three cups in the manner of a nut by each rod, and little roundels or balls together, and lilies; and three cups at the likeness of a nut in the tother rod, and little roundels together, and lilies; forsooth the work of six shafts that came forth of the stock of the candlestick, was even. 
Soothly in that stock were four cups, in the manner of a nut, and little roundels or balls and lilies were by all the cups; 
and the little roundels were under the two shafts by three places, which altogether be made six shafts coming forth of one stock; 
therefore the little roundels or balls, and the shafts thereof, were all beaten out with hammer, of purest gold. 
He made also seven lanterns, with their snuffing tongs, and the vessels where the snuffs be quenched, of cleanest gold. 
The candlestick with all his vessels weighed a talent of gold. 
He made also the altar of incense, of the wood of shittim, having a cubit by square, that is, on each side one cubit, and two cubits in height, of whose corners came forth horns. 
And he covered it with cleanest gold, and the griddle, and walls, and the horns; and he made to it a little golden crown by compass, 
and two golden rings under the crown, by each side, that the bars be put into those or them, and the altar may be borne. 
Forsooth he made those bars of the wood of shittim, or acacia wood, and covered them with golden plates. 
He made also oil to the ointment of hallowing, and the incense of sweet smelling spiceries or spices, most clean, by the work of apothecary. 
