1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 14.
And Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent messengers to David, and trees of cedar, and workmen of walls and of trees, that they should build to him an house. 
And David knew that the Lord had confirmed him into king upon Israel; and that his realm was raised upon his people Israel. 
And David took other wives in Jerusalem, and he begat sons and daughters. 
And these be the names of them that were born to him in Jerusalem; Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, 
Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpalet, 
and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia, 
and Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphalet. 
Forsooth the Philistines heard that David was anointed king on all Israel, and they all went up to seek David, to destroy him. And when David had heard this thing, he went out against them. 
And the Philistines came, and were spread abroad in the valley of Rephaim; 
and David counselled with the Lord, and said, Whether I shall go up to the Philistines? and whether thou shalt betake them into mine hands? And the Lord said to him, Go thou up, and I shall betake them into thine hand. 
And when the Philistines had gone up into Baalperazim, David smote them there, and said, God hath parted mine enemies by mine hand, as waters be parted. And therefore the name of that place was called Baalperazim, that is, the Lord of the Breakthrough; 
and they left there their gods, which David commanded to be burnt. 
And another time the Philistines felled or fell in, and were spread abroad in the valley; 
and again David counselled with the Lord, and the Lord said to him, Thou shalt not go up after them; go thou away from them, and thou shalt come against them even against the pear trees. 
And when thou shalt hear the sound of a goer in the top, or height, of the pear trees, then thou shalt go out to battle; for the Lord is gone out before thee, to smite the powers of the Philistines. 
Therefore David did as God commanded to him, and he smote the castles, or tents, or powers of the Philistines, from Gibeon till to Gazer. 
And the name of David was published in all countries, and the Lord gave his dread on all folks. 
