PROVERBS.
Chapter 27.
Have thou not glory of the morrow, that knowest not what thing the day coming shall bring forth. 
Another man, and not thy mouth praise thee; a stranger, and not thy lips. 
A stone is heavy, and gravel is chargeous; but the ire or the wrath of a fool is heavier than ever either. 
Ire or Wrath hath no mercy, and strong vengeance breaking out hath no mercy; and who may suffer the fierceness of a spirit stirred? 
Better is open reproving, than a love hid. Better is open amending, than hid love. 
Better be the wounds of him that loveth, than the guileful kisses of him that hateth. 
A man ful filled shall despise an honeycomb; but an hungry man shall take, yea, bitter thing for sweet. 
As a bird passing over from his nest, so is a man that forsaketh his place. 
The heart delighteth in ointment, and diverse odours; and a soul is made sweet by the good counsels of a friend. 
Forsake thou not thy friend, and the friend of thy father; and enter thou not into the house of thy brother, in the day of thy torment. Better is a neighbour nigh, than a brother afar. 
My son, study thou about wisdom, and make thou glad mine heart; that thou mayest answer a word to a despiser. 
A fell man seeing evil was hid; little men of wit passing forth suffered harms. 
Take thou away his cloth, that promised for a stranger; and take thou away a wed from him for an alien man. 
He that blesseth his neighbour with a great voice; and riseth by night, shall be like him that curseth. 
Roofs dropping in the day of cold, and a woman full of chiding, be likened together. 
He that withholdeth her, as if he holdeth or held the wind; and voideth out the oil of his right hand. 
Iron is whetted by iron; and a man whetteth the face of his friend. 
He that keepeth a fig tree, shall eat the fruits thereof; and he that is a keeper of his lord, shall be glorified. 
As the cheers of men beholding themselves shine in waters; so the hearts of men be open to prudent men. 
Hell and perdition shall not be filled; so and the eyes of men be not able to be filled or be unfillable. 
As silver is proved in a welling place, and gold is proved in a furnace; so a man is proved by the mouth of his praisers. 
Though thou poundedest a fool in a mortar, as with a pestle smiting above dried barley, his folly shall not be done away from him. 
Know thou diligently the cheer of thy beast; and behold thou thy flocks. 
For thou shalt not have power continually; but a crown shall be given to thee in generation and into generations. 
Meadows be opened, and green herbs appeared; and hay is gathered from the hills. 
Lambs be to thy clothing; and kids be to the price of the field. 
The milk of goats suffice to thee for thy meats; into the necessary things of thine house, and to lifelode of thine handmaidens. 
