ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 4.
Son, defraud thou not the alms-deeds of a poor man, and turn not over thine eyes from a poor man or the poor. 
Despise thou not an hungry man, and wrath thou not a poor man in his neediness. The hungering soul not despise thou, and stir thou not out to wrath the poor in his mis-ease. 
Torment thou not the heart of a needy man, and tarry thou not the gift to a man that is set in anguish. The heart of the helpless not torment thou, and draw thou not along a gift to the man put in straits. 
Cast thou not away the praying of a man set in tribulation, and turn not away thy face from a needy man. The praying of the troubled not cast thou away, and turn thou not away thy face from the needy. 
Turn not away thine eyes from a poor man for ire or From the helpless not turn thou away thine eyes for wrath, and give not occasion, or cause, to men asking to curse thee behind. 
For the prayer of him that curseth thee in the bitterness of soul, shall be heard; forsooth he that made him, shall hear him. 
Make thee easy to speak to the congregation of poor men, and make meek thy soul to a priest, that is, do thou due reverence to an eld man, and make meek thine head to a great man. 
Bow down without sorrow thine ear to a poor man or the poor, and yield thy debt, and answer thou peaceably in mildness. 
Deliver thou him that suffereth wrong from the hand of a proud man, and bear thou not heavily in thy soul. 
In deeming be thou merciful as a father to fatherless children, and be thou for an husband to the mother of them; and thou shalt be as an obedient son of the Highest, and he shall have mercy on thee more than a mother hath mercy on her child. 
Wisdom inspireth life to his sons, and receiveth men seeking him, and shall go before in the way of rightfulness; Wisdom to his sons inbreathed life, and receiveth the men out seeking him, and he shall go before in the way of rightwiseness; 
and he that loveth that wisdom, loveth life, and they that wake to it, shall embrace the peaceableness or the gladness, either sweetness, thereof. 
They that hold it, shall inherit life; and whither it shall enter, God shall bless. 
They that serve it, shall be obey-ing to the Holy; and God loveth them, that love it 
He that heareth it, deemeth folks; and he that beholdeth it, shall dwell trustily. 
If a man believeth or give faith to it, he shall dwell, and inherit it; and the creatures of them shall be in confirming, that is, the works of them shall be confirmed in good. 
For in temptation it goeth with him, and among the first it chooseth him. It shall bring in on him dread, and fear, and proving, and it shall torment him in the tribulation of his doctrine or teaching, till it tempt him in his thoughts, and believe to his soul. 
And it shall make him steadfast, and shall bring right way to him, and it shall make him glad; and shall make naked his privates to him, and shall treasure on him knowing, and understanding of rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
Forsooth if he erreth, Godor it shall forsake him, and shall betake him into the hands of his enemy. 
Son, keep thou time, and eschew thou or shun away from evil. Be thou not ashamed for thy life to say truth; 
for why there is shame that bringeth sin, and there is shame that bringeth glory and grace. 
Take thou not a face against thy face, that is, against thy soul, neither a leasing against thy soul. 
Shame thou not thy neighbour in his fall or falling, neither withhold thou a word in the time of health. 
Hide not thy wisdom in the fair-ness thereof; for why wisdom is known in the tongue, and wit, and knowing, and teaching in the word of a wise man; and steadfastness is in the works of rightfulness or rightwise-ness. 
Against-say thou not the word of truth in any manner; and be thou ashamed of the leasing of thy mis-learning. 
Be thou not ashamed to acknowl-edge thy sins; and make thee not subject to each man for sin. 
Do not thou stand against or withstand the face of the mighty, neither endeavour thou against the stroke of the flood. 
For rightfulness or rightwiseness fight thou for the health of thy soul, and till to the death strive thou for rightfulness or rightwiseness; and God shall overcome thine enemies for thee. 
Do not thou be swift in thy tongue, and unprofitable and slack or slothful in thy works. 
Do not thou be as a lion in thine house, turning upside-down thy menials, and oppressing them that be subject/s to thee. 
Thine hand be not ready or put forth to take, and closed altogether to give. 
