PROVERBS.
Chapter 13.
A wise son is the teaching of the father; but he that is a scorner, heareth not, when he is reproved. 
A man shall be filled with goods of the fruit of his mouth; but the soul of unpious men is wicked. 
He that keepeth his mouth, keepeth his soul; but he that is unwary to speak, shall feel evils. 
A slow man will, and will not; but the soul of them that work shall be made fat. 
A just or rightwise man shall loathe a false word; but a wicked man shameth, and shall be shamed. 
Rightfulness or Rightwiseness keepeth the way of an innocent man; but wickedness deceiveth a sinner. 
A man is as rich, when he hath nothing; and a man is as poor, when he is in many riches. 
The Redemption of the soul of a man is his riches; but he that is poor, suffereth not blaming. 
The light of just or rightwise men maketh glad; but the lantern of wicked men shall be quenched. 
Strives be ever among proud men; but they that do all things with counsel, be governed by wisdom. 
Hasted chattel or substance, that is, gotten hastily, shall be made less; but that that is gathered little and little with hand, shall be multiplied. 
Hope which is delayed, tormenteth the soul; a tree of life is desire coming. 
He that backbiteth anything, bindeth himself into the time to coming or to come; but he that dreadeth the commandment, shall live in peace. 
The law of a wise man is a well of life; that he bow away from the falling of death, that is, of sin, and of hell. 
Good teaching shall give grace; a swallow is in the way of despisers. 
A fell or witting man doeth all things with counsel; but he that is a fool, shall open folly. 
The messenger of a wicked man shall fall into evil; a faithful messenger is health. 
Neediness and shame is to him that forsaketh teaching; but he that assenteth to a blamer, shall be glorified. 
Desire, if it is ful filled, delighteth the soul; fools loathe them that flee evils. 
He that goeth with wise men, shall be wise; the friend of fools shall be made like them. 
Evil pursueth sinners; and goods shall be given to just or rightwise men. 
A good man shall leave after him heirs, sons, and the sons of sons; and the chattel or substance of a sinner is kept to a just or rightwise man. 
Many meats be in the newly-tilled fields of fathers; and be gathered to other men without doom. 
He that spareth the rod, hateth his son; but he that loveth him, teacheth busily. 
A just or rightwise man eateth, and ful filleth his soul; but the womb of wicked men is unable to be filled. 
