PSALMS.
Chapter 73.
The psalm of Asaph. God of Israel is full good; to them that be of rightful or right heart. 
But my feet were moved almost; my steps were shed or poured out almost. 
For I loved fervently on wicked men; seeing the peace of sinners. 
For beholding is not to the death of them; and steadfastness in the sick-ness of them. 
They be not in travail of other men; and they shall not be beaten with men. 
Therefore pride hath held them; they were covered with their wicked-ness and unfaithfulness. 
The wickedness of them came forth as of fatness; they went into desire of heart. 
They thought and spake wayward-ness; they spake wickedness on high. 
They putted or put their mouth into heaven; and their tongue passed in the earth. 
Therefore my people shall be turned again here; and full days shall be found in them. 
And they said, How knoweth God; and whether knowing is on high? 
Lo! those sinners and having abundance in the world; held riches. 
And I said, Therefore without cause I justified mine heart; and washed mine hands among innocents. 
And I was beaten all day; and my chastising was in morrowtides. 
If I said, I shall tell thus; lo! I have reproved the nation of thy sons. 
I guessed, that I should know this; but too much travail is before me. 
Till I enter into the saintuary of God; and understand in the last things of them. 
Nevertheless for guiles or treach-eries thou hast put to them; thou castedest them down, while they were raised. 
How be they made into desolation; they failed suddenly, they perished for their wickedness or waywardness. 
As the dream of men that rise; Lord, thou shalt drive their image to nought, in thy city. 
For mine heart is enflamed, and my reins be changed; 
and I am driven to nought, and I knew not. As a work beast I am made with thee; 
and I am ever with thee. Thou heldest my right hand, 
and in thy will thou leddest me forth; and with glory thou tookest me up. 
For why what is to me in heaven; and what would or desire I of thee on earth? 
My flesh and mine heart failed; God of mine heart, and my part is God without end. 
For lo! they that draw away far themselves from thee shall perish; thou hast lost all men that do forni-cation from thee. 
But it is good to me to cleave to God; and to set or put mine hope in the Lord God. That I tell all thy preachings, in the gates of the daughter of Zion. 
