PSALMS.
Chapter 139.
To victory, the psalm of David. Lord, thou hast proved me, and hast known me; 
thou hast known my sitting, and my rising again. Thou hast understood my thoughts from a far; 
thou hast inquired of my path and my cord. And thou hast before-seen all my ways; 
for no word is in my tongue. Lo! Lord, thou hast known all things, 
the new things and eld or old; thou hast formed me, and hast set thine hand on me. 
Thy knowing is made wonderful of me; it is comforted, and I shall not be able to it. 
Whither shall I go from thy spirit; and whither shall I flee from thy face? 
If I shall ascend or go up into heaven, thou art there; if I shall go down into hell, thou art present. 
If I shall take my feathers full early; and shall dwell in the last parts of the sea. 
And soothly thither thine hand shall lead me forth; and thy right hand shall hold me. 
And I said, In hap darknesses shall defoul me; and the night is my lightening in my delights. 
For why darknesses shall not be made dark from thee, and the night shall be lightened as the day; as the darknesses thereof, so and the light thereof. 
For thou haddest in possession my reins; thou tookest me up from the womb of my mother. 
I shall acknowledge to thee, for thou art magnified dreadfully; thy works be wonderful, and my soul shall know that full much. 
My bone, which thou madest in private, is not hid from thee; and my substance formed in the lower parts of the earth. 
Thine eyes saw mine unperfect thing, and all men shall be written in thy book; days shall be formed, and no man is in those or them. 
Forsooth, God, thy friends be made honourable full much to me; the prince-hood of them is comforted full much. 
I shall number them, and they shall be multiplied above the gravel; I rose up, and yet I am with thee. 
For thou, God, shalt slay sinners; ye men-quellers, bow away from me. 
For they say in thought; Take they their cities in vanity. 
Lord, whether I hated not them that hated thee; and I failed, that is, mourned greatly, on thine enemies? 
By perfect hatred I hated them; they were made enemies to me. 
God, prove thou me, and know thou mine heart; ask thou me, and know thou my paths. 
And see thou, if way of wicked-ness is in me; and lead thou me forth in the everlasting way. 
