GENESIS.
Chapter 48.
And so when these things were done, it was told to Joseph, that his father was sick. And he took his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, and he disposed him to go. 
And it was said to the eld or old man, Lo! thy son Joseph cometh to thee; which was comforted, and sat up in the bed. 
And when Joseph entered to him, he said, Almighty God appeared to me in Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, and blessed me, 
and said, I shall increase thee, and multiply thee, and I shall make thee into companies of peoples, and I shall give to thee this land, and to thy seed after thee, into everlasting possession. 
Therefore thy two sons, that be born to thee in the land of Egypt, before that I came hither to thee, shall be mine; Ephraim and Manasseh, as Reuben and Simeon, shall be areckoned to me; 
forsooth the others which thou shalt beget after them shall be thine; and they shall be called by the name of their brethren in their possessions. 
Forsooth when I came from Mesopotamia, Rachel was dead to me in the land of Canaan, in that way; and it was the beginning of summer; and before that I entered into Ephratah, and I buried her beside the way of Ephratah, which by another name is called Bethlehem. 
Forsooth Jacob saw the sons of Joseph, and said to him, Who be these? 
He answered, They be my sons, which God gave me in this place. Jacob said, Bring them to me, that I bless them. 
For the eyes of Israel dimmed for great eld age, and he might not see clearly; and he kissed and embraced those children joined to him, 
and he said to his son, I am not defrauded of thy sight; furthermore God hath showed to me thy seed. 
And when Joseph had taken them from his father’s lap, he worshipped or honoured low to the earth. 
And he set Ephraim on his right side, that is, on the left side of Israel; forsooth he set Manasseh on his left side, that is, on the right side of his father; and he joined both to him. 
Which held forth the right hand, and laid it on Ephraim’s head, the younger brother; soothly he laid his left hand on Manasseh’s head, that was the more through birth. Jacob changed his hands, 
and blessed his son Joseph, and said, God, in whose sight my fathers Abraham and Isaac went; God that feedeth me from my young waxing age till into this present day; 
the angel that delivered me from all evils, bless these children, and my name be called on them, and the names of my fathers, Abraham and Isaac; and wax they in multitude on earth. 
Forsooth Joseph saw that his father had set or put his right hand on the head of Ephraim, and he took that heavily, and he enforced or endeavoured him to raise his father’s hand, and take it from the head of Ephraim, and to bear it over upon the head of Manasseh. 
And Joseph said to his father, Father, it accordeth not so; for this is the first begotten; set or put thy right hand on his head. 
Which forsook to do so, and said, I know, my son, I know; and soothly this child shall be into peoples, and he shall be multiplied; but his younger brother shall be more than he, and his seed shall increase into a multitude of folks. 
And he blessed them in that time, and said, Israel shall be blessed in thee, and it shall be said, God do to thee as to Ephraim and as to Manasseh. And he set Ephraim before Manasseh; 
and Jacob said to Joseph, his son, Lo! I die, and God shall be with you, and shall lead you again to the land of your fathers; 
I give to thee one part over thy brethren, which I took from the hand of Amorite, in my sword and bow. 
