ISAIAH.
Chapter 60.
Rise thou, Jerusalem, be thou lightened or lighted, for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen on thee. 
For lo! darknesses shall cover the earth, and mist shall cover peoples; but the Lord shall rise up on thee, and his glory shall be seen in thee. 
And heathen men shall go in thy light, and kings in the shining of thy rising. 
Raise thine eyes in compass, and see; all these men be gathered together, they be come to thee; thy sons shall come from a far, and thy daughters shall rise from the side. 
Then thou shalt see, and shalt flow; and thine heart shall wonder, and shall be alarged, when the multitude of the sea is converted to thee, the strength of heathen men is come to thee; 
the flowing of camels shall cover thee, the leaders of dromedaries of Midian and of Ephah; all men of Sheba shall come, bringing gold and incense, and telling praising to the Lord. 
Each sheep of Kedar shall be gathered to thee, the rams of Nebaioth shall minister to thee; they shall be offered on mine acceptable altar, and I shall glorify the house of my majesty. 
Who be these, that fly as clouds, and as culvers at their windows? 
Forsooth isles abide me, and the ships of the sea in the beginning; that I bring thy sons from a far, the silver of them, and the gold of them is with them, to the name of thy Lord God, and to the Holy of Israel; for he shall glorify thee. 
And the sons of pilgrims shall build thy walls, and the kings of them shall minister to thee. For I smote thee in mine indignation, and in my reconciling I had mercy on thee. 
And thy gates shall be opened continually, day and night those or they shall not be closed; that the strength of heathen men be brought to thee, and the kings of them be brought. 
For why the folk and realm that serveth not thee, shall perish, and heathen men shall be destroyed by wilderness. 
The glory of the Lebanon shall come to thee, a fir tree, and box tree, and pine apple tree or pine tree together, to adorn the place of mine hallowing; and I shall glorify the place of my feet. 
And the sons of them that made thee low, shall come low to thee, and all that backbited thee, shall worship the steps of thy feet; and they shall call thee, A city of the Lord of Zion, of the Holy of Israel. 
For that that thou were forsaken, and hated, and none was that passed by thee, I shall set thee into pride, that is, glory and honour, of worlds, joy in generation and into generation. 
And thou shalt suck the milk of folks, and thou shalt be suckled with the teat of kings; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord, saving thee, and thine again-buyer, the Strong of Jacob. 
For brass I shall bring gold, and for iron I shall bring silver; and brass for wood, and iron for stones; and I shall set thy visitation peace, and thy prelates or provosts, either sovereigns, rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
Wickedness shall no more be heard in thy land, neither destroying and defouling in thy coasts; and health shall occupy thy walls, and praising shall occupy thy gates. 
The sun shall no more be to thee for to shine by day, neither the brightness of the moon shall lighten thee; but the Lord shall be into everlasting light to thee, and thy God shall be into thy glory. 
Thy sun shall no more go down, and thy moon shall not be decreased; for the Lord shall be into everlasting light to thee, and the days of thy mourning shall be ful filled. 
Forsooth thy people, all just or rightwise men, without end shall inherit the land, the seed of my planting, the work of mine hand for to be glorified. 
The least shall be into a thousand, and a little man shall be into a full strong folk. I, the Lord, shall make this thing suddenly, in the time thereof. 
