DANIEL.
Chapter 12.
Forsooth in that time Michael, the great prince, shall rise, that standeth for the sons of thy people. And time of trouble shall come, what manner time was not, from that time from which folks began to be, till to that time. And in that time thy people shall be saved, each that is found written in the book of life. 
And many of them that sleep in the dust of earth, shall awake fully, some into everlasting life, and others into shame, that they see evermore. 
Forsooth they that be taught, or wise, shall shine as the shining of the firmament, and they that teach many men to rightfulness or rightwiseness, shall shine as stars into everlasting everlastingnesses. 
But thou, Daniel, close the words, and aseal the book, till to the time ordained; full many men shall pass, and knowing shall be manyfold. 
And I, Daniel, saw, and lo! As twain or two other men stood; one stood on this side, on the brink of the flood, and another on that side, on the tother part of the flood. 
And I said to the man that was clothed in linen clothes that stood on the waters of the flood, how long shall be until the end of these marvels? 
And I heard the man, that was clothed in linen clothes, that stood on the waters of the flood, when he had raised his right hand and left hand to heaven, and had sworn by him that liveth without end, For into a time, and times, and the half of time. And when the scattering of the hand of the holy people is ful filled, all these things shall be filled or ended. 
And I heard, and understood not; and I said, my lord, what shall be after these things? 
And he said, Go thou, Daniel, for the words be closed and asealed, till to the time determined. 
Many men shall be chosen, and shall be made white, and shall be proved, as by fire, and wicked men shall do wickedly, neither all wicked men shall understand; certainly taught men shall understand. 
And from the time when continual sacrifice is taken away, and abomination is set into discomfort, shall be a thousand days two hundred and ninety. 
He is blessed that abideth, and cometh fully, to a thousand days three hundred and five and thirty. 
But go thou, Daniel, to the time determined; and thou shalt rest, and stand in thy part, in the end of days. 
