GALATIANS.
Chapter 5.
Stand ye therefore, and do not ye again be held in the yoke of servage. 
Lo! I, Paul, say to you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall nothing profit to you. 
And I witness again to each man that circumciseth himself, that he is a debtor of all the law to be done. 
And ye be voided away from Christ, and ye that be justified in the law, ye have fallen away from grace. 
For we through the Spirit of belief abide the hope of rightwiseness. For we by Spirit of faith abide the hope of rightwiseness. 
For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision is anything worth, neither prepuce, but the belief that worketh by charity or but faith that worketh by charity. 
Ye ran well; who hindered you that ye obeyed not to the truth? 
Consent ye to no man; for this counsel is not of him that hath called you. 
A little sourdough impaireth or maketh sour all the gobbet. 
I trust on you in our Lord, that ye should understand none other thing. And who that disturbeth or dis-troubleth you, shall bear doom, whoever he be. 
And, brethren, if I preach yet circumcision, what suffer I yet persecution? then the stumbling of the cross is avoided/is voided. 
I would that they were cut away, that disturb you. I would that they that distrouble you, be also cut off. 
For, brethren, ye be called into freedom or into liberty; only give ye not freedom or liberty into occasion of flesh, but by charity of the Spirit serve ye together. 
For every law or all the law is fulfilled in one word, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
And if ye bite, and eat each other, see ye, lest ye be wasted each from other. 
And I say to you in Christ, walk ye in Spirit, and ye shall not perform the desires of the flesh. 
For the flesh coveteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; for these be adversaries together, that ye do not all things that ye will. 
That if ye be led by the Spirit, ye be not under the law. 
And the works of the flesh be open, which be fornication, unclean-ness, unchastity, lechery, 
service of false gods or serving of idols, witchcrafts, enmities, strivings or strives, indignations, wraths, chidings, dissensions, sects or heresies, 
envies, manslayings, drunkennesses, unmeasurable eatings or gluttonies, and things like to these, which I say to you before, as I have told to you before, for they that do such things, shall not have the kingdom of God. 
But the fruit of the Spirit is charity, joy, peace, patience, long abiding, benignity, or good will, goodness, mildness, faith, 
temperance, continence, chastity; against such things is no law. 
And they that be of Christ, have crucified their flesh with vices and covetings or concupiscences. 
If we live by Spirit, walk we by Spirit; 
be we not made covetous of vain glory, stirring each other to wrath, or having envy each to other. 
