MATTHEW.
Chapter 4.
Then Jesus was led of a spirit into desert, to be tempted of the fiend or the devil. 
And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, afterward he hungered. 
And the tempter came nigh, and said to him, If thou be God’s Son or If thou art the Son of God, say that these stones be made loaves. 
Which answered, and said to him, It is written, Not only in bread liveth man, but in each word that cometh forth of God’s mouth, or A man liveth not in bread alone, but in every word that cometh forth from the mouth of God. 
Then the fiend or the devil took him into the holy city, and setted him on the pinnacle of the temple, 
and said to him, If thou art God’s Son, send thee adown, or If thou art the Son of God, send thee down; for it is written, That to his angels he commanded of thee, and they shall take thee in hands, lest peradventure thou hurt thy foot at a stone. 
Again Jesus said to him, It is written, Thou shalt not tempt thy Lord God or the Lord thy God. 
Again the fiend or the devil took him up into a full high hill, and showed to him all the realms of the world, and the joy or the glory of them; 
and said to him, All these I shall give to thee, if thou fall down and worship me. 
Then Jesus said to him, Go, Satan; for it is written, Thou shalt worship thy Lord God or the Lord thy God, and to him alone thou shalt serve. 
Then the fiend or the devil left him; and lo! angels came nigh, and served to him. 
But when Jesus had heard that John was taken, he went into Galilee. 
And he left the city of Nazareth, and came, and dwelt in the city of Capernaum, beside the sea, in the coasts of Zebulun and Naphtali, 
that it should be fulfilled, that was said by Isaiah, the prophet, saying, 
The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea over Jordan, of Galilee of heathen men, 
the people that walked or that dwelt in darknesses saw great light, and while men sat in the country of the shadow of death, light arose to them. 
From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Do ye penance, for the kingdom of heavens shall come nigh or the realm of heaven hath nighed. 
And Jesus walked beside the sea of Galilee, and saw two brethren, Simon, that is called Peter, and Andrew, his brother, casting nets into the sea; for they were fishers. 
And he said to them, Come ye after me, and I shall make you to be made fishers of men. 
And anon they left their nets, and pursued him. 
And he went forth from that place, and saw twain other brethren, James of Zebedee, and John, his brother, in a ship with Zebedee, their father, amending their nets, and he called them. 
And anon they left the nets and the father, and pursued him. 
And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in the synagogues of them, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every languor, or all sorrow, or ache, and each sickness among the people. 
And his fame went into all Syria; and they brought to him all that were at mal-ease, and that were taken with diverse languors or sorrows, and torments, and them that had fiends or devils, and lunatic men, and men in the palsy, and he healed them. 
And there pursued him much people of Galilee, and of Decapolis, and of Jerusalem, and of Judea, and of beyond Jordan. 
