JOB.
Chapter 7.
Knighthood, that is, continual travail, and fighting against vices, is the life of a man upon earth, and his days be as the days of an hired man. 
As an hart desireth shadow, and as an hired man abideth the end of his work; 
so I have had void months, and I have numbered travailous nights to me. 
If I shall sleep, I shall say, When shall I rise? and again I shall abide the eventide, and I shall be full-filled with sorrows unto darknesses come. 
My flesh is clothed with rot, and filths of dust; my skin dried up, and is drawn together. 
My days have passed swifter than a web is cut down from the looms; and those days be wasted without any hope of coming again. 
God, have thou mind, for my life is wind, and mine eye shall not turn again, that it see goods. 
Neither the sight of man shall behold me; but thine eyes be in me, and I shall not be in deadly life, that is, I shall not abide alive. 
As a cloud is wasted, and passeth soon away, so he that goeth down to hell, shall not go up from thence; 
neither he shall turn again more into his house, and his place shall no more know him. 
Wherefore and I shall not spare my mouth; I shall speak in the tribulation of my spirit, I shall talk altogether with the bitterness of my soul. 
Whether I am a sea, either a whale, for thou hast encompassed me with a prison? 
If I shall say, My bed shall comfort me, and I shall be relieved, or quieted, speaking with me in my bed; 
thou shalt make me afeared by dreams, and thou shalt shake me with horror, either hideousness, by sights. 
Wherefore my soul chose hanging, and my bones have chosen death. 
I despaired, now I shall no more live; Lord, spare thou me, for my days be nought. 
What is a man, for thou magni-fiest him? either what settest thou thine heart toward him? 
Thou visitest him early, and suddenly thou provest him. 
How long sparest thou not me, neither sufferest me, that I swallow my spittle? 
I have sinned; O! thou keeper of men, what shall I do to thee? Why hast thou set me contrary to thee, and I am made grievous to myself? 
Why doest thou not away my sin, and why takest thou not away my wickedness? Lo! now I shall sleep in dust, and if thou seekest me early, I shall not abide. 
