EXODUS.
Chapter 23.
Thou shalt not receive a voice of leasing, thou shalt not raise thine hand, that is, make covenant, either promise, that thou say false witnessing for a wicked man. 
Thou shalt not follow a company to do evil, neither thou shalt assent to the sentence of full many men in doom, that thou go away from truth. 
Also thou shalt not have mercy of a poor man in a cause, or doom. 
If thou meetest thine enemy’s ox, either his ass, straying, lead it again to him. 
If thou seest that the ass of him that hateth thee lieth under a burden, thou shalt not pass by, but thou shalt raise up it with him. 
Thou shalt not bow awayfrom truth in the doom of a poor man. 
Thou shalt flee leasing. Thou shalt not slay an innocent man, and just or rightwise; for I am adversary to a wicked man. 
Take thou not gifts, that blind, yea, prudent men, and destroy the words of just or rightwise men. 
Thou shalt not be dis-easeful of a pilgrim, for ye know the souls of comelings, for also ye were pilgrims in the land of Egypt. 
Six years thou shalt sow thy land, and thou shalt gather the fruits thereof; 
forsooth in the seventh year thou shalt leave it, and make it to rest, that the poor men of thy people eat, and whatever is left ungathered, the beasts of the field eat it; so thou shalt do in thy vinery or vineyard, and in the place of thine olive trees. 
Six days thou shalt work, and in the seventh day thou shalt cease, that thine ox, and thine ass rest, and the son of thine handmaid, and the comeling be refreshed. 
Keep ye all things, which I have said to you; and ye shall not swear by the name of alien gods, neither it shall be heard of your mouth. 
In three times by all years ye shall hallow feasts to me. 
Thou shalt keep the solemnity of therf loaves; seven days thou shalt eat therf bread, as I commanded to thee, in the time of the month of new things, when thou wentest out of Egypt; thou shalt not appear void in my sight. 
And thou shalt keep the solemnity of the month of the first things of thy works, whatever things thou hast sown in the field. Also thou shalt keep the solemnity in the going out of the year, when thou hast gathered all thy fruits of the field. 
Thrice in the year all thy male kind shall appear before thy Lord God. 
Thou shalt not offer the blood of thy slain sacrifice on sourdough; neither the fatness of my solemnity shall dwell till to the morrowtide. 
Thou shalt bear the first things of the fruits of thy land into the house of thy Lord God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in the milk of his mother. 
Lo! I send mine angel, that shall go before thee, and shall keep thee in the way, and shall lead thee to the place which I have made ready to thee. 
Take thou heed to him, and hear thou his voice, neither guess thou him to be despised, or despisable; for he shall not forgive, when thou sinnest, and my name is in him. 
For if thou hearest his voice, and doest all things which I speak, I shall be enemy to thine enemies, and I shall torment them, that torment thee; 
and mine angel shall go before thee, and he shall lead in thee to Amorites, and Hittites, and Perizzites, and Canaanites, and Hivites, and Jebus-ites, which I shall break, or destroy. 
Thou shalt not honour the gods of them, neither thou shalt worship them; thou shalt not do the works of them, but thou shalt destroy their gods, and thou shalt break the images of them. 
And ye shall serve to your Lord God, that I bless thy loaves, and thy waters, and do away sickness from the midst of thee; 
neither a woman unfruitful, neither barren, shall be in thy land; I shall fulfill the number of thy days. 
I shall send my dread into thy before-going, and I shall slay all the people, to which thou shalt enter, and I shall turn the backs of all thine enemies before thee; 
and I shall send out before thee crabrones, or stinging flies, that shall drive away Hivite, and Canaanite, and Hittite, before that thou enter. 
I shall not cast them out from thy face in one year, lest the land be turned into wilderness, and beasts increase against thee; 
little and little I shall cast them out from thy sight, till thou be increased, and wield the land. 
Forsooth and I shall set thy terms from the Red Sea till to the sea of Palestines, and from the desert till to the flood. I shall give into your hands the dwellers of the land, and I shall cast them out from your sight; 
thou shalt not make bond of peace with them, neither with their gods. 
Dwell they not in thy land, lest peradventure they make thee to do sin against me; if thou servest their gods, which thing certainly shall be to thee into cause of stumbling. 
