LEVITICUS.
Chapter 24.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Command thou to the sons of Israel, that they bring to thee oil of olives, most pure oil, and bright, to the lanterns to be ordained continually, 
without the veil of witnessing, in the tabernacle of the bond of peace; and Aaron shall array those lanterns from eventide till to eventide before the Lord, by religion and custom everlasting in your generations; 
those lanterns shall be set ever-more upon a cleanest candlestick in the sight of the Lord. 
Also thou shalt take tried wheat flour, and thou shalt bake thereof twelve loaves, which shall have each by themselves two tenth parts, 
of which thou shalt set six on ever either side, on a full clean board before the Lord; 
and thou shalt set or put clearest incense upon those loaves, that the loaves be into mind of the offering of the Lord; 
by each sabbath those or they shall be changed before the Lord, and shall be taken of the sons of Israel by everlasting bond of peace; 
and they shall be Aaron’s and his sons’, that they eat those or them in the holy place, for it is holy of holy things, of the sacrifices of the Lord, by everlasting law. 
Lo! forsooth the son of a woman of Israel, whom she childed of an Egyptian, went out among the sons of Israel, and he chided in the tents with a man of Israel, 
and when he had blasphemed the name of the Lord, and had cursed the Lord, he was brought to Moses; soothly his mother was called Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the lineage of Dan; 
and they sent him into prison, till they knew what the Lord commanded. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Lead out the blasphemer without the tents, and all men that heard him, set or put they their hands upon his head, and all the people stone him. 
And thou shalt speak to the sons of Israel, A man that curseth his God, shall bear his sin, 
and he that blasphemeth the name of the Lord, die he by death; all the multitude of the people shall oppress him with stones; whether he that blasphemed the name of the Lord is a citizen, or a pilgrim, die he by death. 
He that smiteth and slayeth a man, die he by death; 
he that smiteth a beast, yield one in his stead, that is, life for life. 
If a man giveth a wem to any of his citizens, as he did, so be it done to him; 
he shall restore breaking for breaking, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; what manner wem he gave, he shall be compelled to suffer such a wem. 
He that smiteth a work beast, yield he another; he that smiteth a man, shall die. 
Even doom be among you, whether a pilgrim either a citizen sinneth, for I am your Lord God. 
And Moses spake to the sons of Israel, and they brought forth out of the tents him that blasphemed, and oppressed him with stones. And the sons of Israel did, as the Lord commanded to Moses. 
