JOB.
Chapter 39.
Whether thou knowest the time of the birth of wild goats in stones, either hast thou espied hinds bringing forth calves? 
Hast thou numbered the months of their conceiving, and hast thou known the time of their calving? 
They be bowed down to the calf, and so calve; and they send out then roarings. 
Their calves be separated from them, and go forth to pasture; they go out, and they turn not again to their mothers. 
Who hath let the wild ass go free, and who hath loosed the bonds of him? 
To whom I have given an house in wilderness, and the tabernacles of him in the land of saltness. 
He despiseth the multitude of the city; he heareth not the cry of the asker. 
He looketh about the hills of his pasture, and he seeketh all green things. 
Whether an unicorn shall desire to serve thee, either shall dwell at thy cratch? 
Whether thou shalt bind the unicorn with thy chain, for to ear thy land, either shall he break the clots of the valleys after thee? 
Whether thou shalt have trust in his great strength, and shalt thou leave to him thy travails? 
Whether thou shalt believe to him, that he shall yield seed to thee, and shall gather together for thy cornfloor? 
The feather of an ostrich is like the feathers of a gyrfalcon, and of an hawk; 
the which ostrich forsaketh his eggs in the earth, in hap thou shalt make those or them hot in the dust. 
He forgetteth, that a foot treadeth those eggs, either that a beast of the field all-breaketh them. 
He is made hard to his young, as if they were not his; he travailed in vain, while no dread constrained him. 
For God hath deprived him from wisdom, and he hath not given under-standing to him. 
When time is, he raiseth the wings on high; he scorneth the horse, and his rider. 
Whether thou shalt give strength to an horse, either shalt give neighing about his neck? 
Whether thou shalt raise him as locusts? The glory of his nostrils is dreaded. 
He diggeth the earth with his foot, he full out joyeth; and he goeth boldly against the armed men. 
He despiseth fearedfulness, and he giveth not stead to the sword. 
An arrow case shall sound upon him; a spear and a shield shall shine. 
He is hot, or fervent, and gnasheth, and swalloweth the earth; and he areckoneth not that the cry of the trump soundeth. 
When he heareth a clarion, he saith, Joy! he smelleth battle afar; the exciting of dukes, and the yelling of the host. 
Whether an hawk spreading abroad his wings to the south, beginneth to have feathers by thy wisdom? 
Whether an eagle shall be raised up at thy commandment, and shall set or put his nest in high places? 
He dwelleth in stones, and he abideth in flints broken before, and in rocks, to which men may not nigh. 
From thence he beholdeth meat and his eyes look from a far. 
His young suck blood, and wherever a carrion is, anon he is present. 
