EXODUS.
Chapter 30.
Also thou shalt make an altar of the wood of shittim, for to burn incense; 
and the altar shall have a cubit of length, and another cubit of breadth, that is four-cornered, and two cubits in height; and the corners or horns shall come forth of the altar. 
And thou shalt clothe it with cleanest gold, as well the roof thereof, that is, the higher part, as the walls, and the corners by compass thereof; and thou shalt make to the altar a little golden crown by compass, 
and two golden circles under the crown by all sides, that bars be put into those rings, and so the altar be borne. 
Also thou shalt make the bars of the wood of shittim, and thou shalt overgild them; 
and thou shalt set the altar against the veil, that hangeth before the ark of witnessing, before the propitiatory, with which the witnessing is covered, where I shall speak to thee. 
And Aaron shall burn thereon incense smelling sweetly early; when he shall array the lanterns, he shall burn it; 
and when he setteth the lanterns at eventide, he shall burn everlasting incense before the Lord, into your generations. 
Ye shall not offer thereon incense of other making, neither offering, nor slain sacrifice, neither ye shall offer flowing offerings thereon. 
And Aaron shall pray on the horns thereof once by the year, in the blood which is offered for sin, and he shall please the Lord thereon in your generations; it shall be the holy of holy things to the Lord. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
When thou shalt take the sum of the sons of Israel, all by themselves shall give by the number price for their souls to the Lord, and vengeance shall not be in them, when they be numbered. 
Soothly each that passeth to the named, that is, of twenty years, shall give this price, half a shekel by the measure of the temple; a shekel hath twenty half-pence; the half part of a shekel shall be offered to the Lord. 
He that is had in the number, from twenty years and above, shall give this price; 
a rich man shall not add to the half of a shekel, and a poor man shall nothing abate. 
And thou shalt betake into the uses of the tabernacle of witnessing the money taken, which is gathered of the sons of Israel, that it be a mind of them before the Lord, and he shall be merciful to their souls. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Also thou shalt make a great vessel of brass with his foundament to wash in, and thou shalt set it betwixt the tabernacle of witnessing and the altar; and when water is put therein, 
Aaron and his sons shall wash therein their hands and their feet, 
when they shall enter into the tabernacle of witnessing, and when they shall nigh to the altar, that they offer therein incense to the Lord, lest peradventure they die; 
it shall be a lawful thing everlasting to him and to his seed by successions. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Take to thee sweet smelling spiceries, of the first and chosen myrrh, five hundred shekels; and of canel the half, that is, two hundred and fifty shekels; and in like manner of calamus, that is, a sweet smelling tree, small and full of knots, two hundred and fifty shekels; 
also of cassia five hundred shekels, in the weight of the saintuary; the oil of olives trees, the measure of hin; 
and thou shalt make the holy oil of anointing, an ointment made by the craft of an ointment maker. 
And thou shalt anoint thereof the tabernacle of witnessing, and the ark of the testament, 
and the board with his vessels, and the candlestick, and the appur-tenances thereof, the altars of incense, 
and of burnt sacrifice, and all the appurtenance, that pertaineth to the adorning of those things. 
And thou shalt hallow all things, and they shall be the holy of holy things; he that shall touch those or them, shall be hallowed beforehand. 
Thou shalt anoint Aaron, and his sons, and thou shalt hallow them, that they be set in priesthood to me. 
And thou shalt say to the sons of Israel, This oil of anointing shall be holy to me into your generations. 
The flesh of a man shall not be anointed thereof, and by the making thereof ye shall not make another such oil, for it is hallowed, and it shall be holy to you. 
Whatever man maketh such oil, and giveth thereof to an alien, he shall be put out of his people. 
Forsooth the Lord said to Moses, Take to thee sweet smelling spiceries, stacte, and onycha, galbanum of good odour, and most pure frankincense, all these shall be of even weight. 
And thou shalt make incense, made by the craft of an ointment maker, meddled or mingledtogether diligently, and pure, and most worthy of hallowing. 
And when thou hast pounded all these things into smallest powder, thou shalt put thereof before the tabernacle of witnessing, in which place I shall appear to thee; the made incense shall be to you the holy of holy things. 
Ye shall not make such a making into your own uses, for it is holy to the Lord. 
Whatever man maketh like thing to it, that he use the odour thereof, he shall perish from his people. 
