MATTHEW.
Chapter 25.
Then the kingdom of heavens shall be like to ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went out to meet the husband and the wife; 
and five of them were fools, and five prudent. 
But the five fools took their lamps, and took not oil with them; 
but the prudent took oil in their vessels with the lamps. 
And whiles the husband tarried, all they napped and slept. 
But at midnight a cry was made, Lo! the spouse cometh, go ye out to meet with him or to meet him. 
Then all those virgins rose up, and arrayed their lamps. 
And the fools said to the wise, Give ye to us of your oil, for our lamps be quenched. 
The prudent answered, and said, Lest peradventure it suffice not to us and to you, go ye rather to men that sell, and buy to you. 
And while they went to buy, the spouse came; and those that were ready, entered with him to the weddings; and the gate was shut. 
And at the last the other virgins came, and said, Lord, lord, open to us. 
And he answered, and said, Truly I say to you, I know you not. 
Therefore wake ye, for ye know not the day nor the hour. 
For as a man that goeth far in pilgrimage, called his servants, and betook to them his goods; 
and to one he gave five bezants or talents, to another twain, and to another one, to each after his own virtue; and he went forth anon. 
And he that had five bezants or talents went forth, and wrought in them, and won other five. 
Also and he that had taken twain, won other twain. 
But he that had taken one, went forth, and delved in the earth, and hid the money of his lord. 
But after long time, the lord of those servants came, and reckoned with them. 
And he that had taken five bezants or talents, came, and brought other five, and said, Lord, thou betookest to me five bezants or talents, lo! I have gotten above five others. 
His lord said to him, Well be thou, good servant and faithful; for on few things thou hast been true or faithful, I shall ordain thee on many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord. 
And he that had taken two bezants, or two talents, came, and said, Lord, thou betookest to me two bezants or talents; lo! I have won or gotten over other twain. 
His lord said to him, Well be thou, good servant and true or faithful; for on few things thou hast been true or faithful, I shall ordain thee on many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord. 
But he that had taken one bezant or talent, came, and said, Lord, I know that thou art an hard man; thou reapest where thou hast not sown, and thou gatherest together where thou hast not spread abroad; 
and I dreading, went, and hid thy bezant or talent in the earth; lo! thou hast that that is thine. 
His lord answered, and said to him, Evil servant and slow, knewest thou that I reap where I sowed not, and gather together where I spreaded not abroad? 
Therefore it behooved thee to betake my money to exchangers, that when I came, I should have received that that is mine with usuries. 
Therefore take away from him the bezant or talent, and give to him that hath ten bezants or talents. 
For to every man that hath me shall give, and he shall increase +or For to every man having it shall be given, and he shall have plenty, or increase; but from him that hath not, also that that he seemeth to have, shall be taken away from him. 
And cast ye out the unprofitable servant into outer-more or uttermore darknesses; there shall be weeping, and grinding of teeth. 
When man’s Son shall come in his majesty, and all his angels with him, then he shall sit on the seat of his majesty; 
and all folks shall be gathered before him, and he shall separate or part them atwain, as a shepherd separateth or parteth sheep from kids; 
and he shall set the sheep on his right half, and the kids on the or his left half. 
Then the king shall say to them, that shall be on his right half, Come ye, the blessed of my Father, take ye in possession the kingdom made ready to you from the making or the beginning of the world. 
For I hungered or I was hungry, and ye gave me to eat; I thirsted, and ye gave me to drink; I was harbour-less, and ye harboured me; 
naked, and ye covered me; sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came to me. 
Then just men shall answer to him, and say, Lord, when saw we thee hungry, and we fed thee; thirsty, and we gave to thee or we gave thee drink? 
and when saw we thee harbour-less, and we harboured thee or we gathered thee to harbour; or naked, and we covered thee? 
or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and we came to thee? 
And the king answering shall say to them, Truly I say to you, as long as ye did to one of these my least brethren, ye did to me. 
Then the king shall say also to them, that shall be on his left half, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, that is made ready to the devil and his angels. 
For I hungered, and ye gave not to me to eat; I thirsted, and ye gave not to me to drink; 
I was harbourless, and ye harboured not me or ye gathered not me to harbour; naked, and ye covered not me; sick, and in prison, and ye visited not me. 
Then and they shall answer to him, and shall say, Lord, when saw we thee hungering, or thirsting, or harbourless, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and we served not to thee? 
Then he shall answer to them, and say, Truly I say to you, as long as ye did not to one of these least, neither ye did to me or ye did not to me. 
And these shall go into ever-lasting torment; but the just men shall go into everlasting life. 
