EZEKIEL.
Chapter 12.
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Son of man, thou dwellest in the midst of an house stirring to wrath, which have eyes to see, and see not, and ears to hear, and hear not; for it an house stirring to wrath. 
Therefore thou, son of man, make to thee vessels of passing over, and thou shalt pass over by day before them; forsooth thou shalt pass over from thy place to another place, in the sight of them; if peradventure they behold, for it is an house stirring to wrath. 
And thou shalt bear withoutforth thy vessels, as the vessels of a man passing over by day, in the sight of them; soothly thou shalt go out in the eventide before them, as a man passing forth goeth out. 
Before the eyes of them dig through the wall to thee, and thou shalt go out through it, 
in the sight of them. Thou shalt be borne on shoulders, thou shalt be borne out in darkness; thou shalt cover thy face, and thou shalt not see the earth, for I have given thee to be a sign of thing to coming to the house of Israel. 
Therefore I did as the Lord commanded to me; I brought forth my vessels, as the vessels of a man passing over by day, and in the eventide I digged through a wall to me with mine hand; I went out in darkness, and I or it was borne on shoulders, in the sight of them. 
And the word of the Lord was made early to me, and he said, 
Son of man, whether the house of Israel, the house stirring me to wrath, said not to thee, What doest thou? 
Say thou to them, The Lord God saith these things, This burden is on the duke, which is in Jerusalem, and on all the house of Israel, which is in the midst of them. 
Say thou, I am your sign of thing to coming; as I did, so it shall be done to them; they shall go into passing over, and into captivity. 
And the duke which is in the midst of them, shall be borne out on shoulders, and he shall go out in darkness; they shall dig through the wall, and lead him out; his face shall be covered, that he see not with eye the earth. 
And I shall stretch forth my net on him, and he shall be taken in my net; and I shall lead him into Babylon, into the land of Chaldees, and he shall not see that land, and he shall die there. 
And I shall scatter into each wind all men that be about him, his help, and his companies; and I shall draw out the sword after them. 
And they shall know, that I am the Lord, when I shall scatter them among heathen men, and shall sow them abroad in lands. 
And I shall leave of them a few men from sword, and hunger, and pestilence, that they tell out all the great trespasses of them among heathen men, to whom they shall enter; and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, eat thy bread in disturbing or troubling, but also drink thy water in haste and mourning. 
And thou shalt say to the people of the land, The Lord God saith these things to them that dwell in Jerusalem, and elsewhere in the land of Israel, They shall eat their bread in anguish, and they shall drink their water in desolation; that the land be desolate of his multitude, for the wickedness of all men that dwell therein. 
And the cities that be now inhabited, shall be desolate, and the land shall be forsaken; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord. 
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Son of man, what is this proverb to you, of men saying in the land of Israel, Days shall be deferred into long time, and each vision shall perish? 
Therefore say thou to them, The Lord God saith these things, I shall make this proverb to cease, and it shall no more be said commonly in Israel; and speak thou to them, that the days have nighed, and each word of vision, either of prophesy. 
For why each vision shall no more be void, neither before-telling of thing to coming or divinationshall be doubtful in the midst of the sons of Israel; 
for I the Lord shall speak what-ever word I shall speak, and it shall be done; it shall no more be delayed, but in your days, ye house stirring to wrath, I shall speak a word, and I shall do that word, saith the Lord God. 
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, lo! the house of Israel, of them that say, The vision which this man seeth, is into many days yet to come, and this man prophesieth into long times. 
Therefore say thou to them, The Lord God saith these things, Each word of me shall no more be deferred; the word which I shall speak, shall be ful filled, saith the Lord God. 
