PSALMS.
Chapter 44.
To victory, learning to the sons of Korah. God, we heard with our ears; our fathers told to us. The work, which thou wroughtest in the days of them; and in the old days. 
Thine hand lost heathen men, and thou plantedest them; thou tormentedest peoples, and castedest them out. 
For the children of Israel wielded the land not by their sword; and the arm of them saved not them. But thy right hand, and thine arm, and the lightening of thy cheer; for thou were pleased in them. 
Thou art thyself, my king, and my God; that sendest healths to Jacob. 
By thee we shall winnow our enemies with the horn; and in thy name we shall despise them, that rise against us. 
For I shall not hope in my bow; and my sword shall not save me. 
For thou hast saved us from men tormenting us; and thou hast shamed men hating us. 
We shall be pleased in God all day; and in thy name we shall acknowledge to thee into the world. 
But now thou hast put us aback, and hast shamed us; and thou, Lord, shalt not go out in our virtues. 
Thou hast turned us away behind after our enemies; and they, that hated us, ravished diversely to themselves. 
Thou hast given us as sheep of meats; and among heathen men thou hast scattered us. 
Thou hast sold thy people without price; and multitude there was not in the exchangings of them. 
Thou hast set or put us as a shame to our neighbours; mocking and scorn to them that be in our compass. 
Thou hast set or put us into like-ness to heathen men; and wagging of the head among peoples. 
All day my shame is against me; and the shame of my face covered me. 
From the voice of the despiser, and evil speaker; from the face of the enemy, and the pursuer. 
All these things came on us, and we have not forgotten thee; and we did not wickedly in thy testament. 
And our heart went not away behind; and thou hast not bowed away our paths from thy way. 
For thou hast made us low in the place of torment; and the shadow of death covered us. 
If we forgat the name of our God; and if we held forth our hands to an alien God. 
Whether God shall not seek these things? for he knoweth the hid things of heart. 
For why we be slain all day for thee; we be deemed as sheep of slaying. 
Lord, rise up, why sleepest thou? rise up, and put not us away into the end. 
Why turnest thou away thy face? thou forgettest our poverty, and our tribulation. 
For our life is made low in dust; our womb is glued together in the earth. 
Lord, rise up thou, and help us; and again-buy us for thy name. 
