EZEKIEL.
Chapter 40.
In the five and twentieth year of our passing over, in the beginning of the year, in the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after that the city was smitten, in this same day the hand of the Lord was made on me, and he brought me thither 
in the revelations of God. And he brought me into the land of Israel, and he let me down on a full high hill, on which was as the building of a city going to the south; 
and he led me in thither. And lo! a man, whose likeness was as the likeness of brass, and a cord of flax was in his hand, and a reed of measure in his hand; forsooth he stood in the gate. 
And the same man spake to me, Thou, son of man, see with thine eyes, and hear with thine ears, and set thine heart on all things which I shall show to thee, for thou art brought hither that those or it be showed to thee; tell thou all things which thou seest to the house of Israel. 
And lo! a wall withoutforth, in the compass of the house of the Lord on each side; and in the hand of the man was a reed of measure of six cubits and a span, that is, an hand-breadth; and he meted the breadth of the building with one reed, and the highness by one reed. 
And he came to the gate that beheld the way of the east, and he ascended or went up by the degrees of it; and he meted the lintel of the gate, by one reed the breadth, that is, one lintel by one reed in breadth; 
and he meted one little chamber by one reed in length, and by one reed in breadth, and five cubits betwixt the little chambers; and he meted the lintel of the gate beside the porch of the gate within, by one reed. 
(This verse omitted in the original text.) 
And he meted the porch of the gate of eight cubits, and the posts thereof by two cubits; soothly the porch of the gate was within. 
Certainly the chambers of the gate at the way of the east were three on this side, and three on that side; one measure of three, and one measure of the posts on ever either side. 
And he meted the breadth of the lintel of the gate of ten cubits, and the length of the gate of thirteen cubits. 
And he meted a margin of one cubit before the chambers, and one cubit was the end on each side; forsooth the chambers were of six cubits on this side and on that side. 
And he meted the gate from the roof of the chamber till to the roof thereof, the breadth of five and twenty cubits, a door against a door. 
And he made posts by sixty cubits, and at the post a foreyard of the gate on each side by compass; 
and before the face of the gate that stretcheth forth till to the face of the porch of the inner gate, he meted fifty cubits. 
And he meted windows narrow without and large within, in the chambers, and posts of those or them, that were within the gate on each side by compass. Soothly in like manner also windows were in the porches by compass within; and the painture of palm trees was engraved before the posts. 
And he led me out to the outer-more foreyard, and lo! treasuries, and a pavement arrayed with stone in the foreyard by compass; thirty treasuries were in the compass of the pavement; 
and the pavement was beneath in the front of the gates, by the length of the gates. 
And he meted the breadth from the face of the lower gate till to the front of the inner foreyard without-forth, an hundred cubits at the east, and at the north. 
And he meted, both in length and in breadth, the gate that beheld the way of the north, of the outermore foreyard. 
And he meted the chambers thereof, three on this side, and three on that side, and the posts thereof, and the porch thereof, by the measure of the former gate; the length thereof of fifty cubits, and the breadth thereof of five and twenty cubits. 
Soothly the windows thereof, and the porch, and the engravings, were by the measure of the gate that beheld to the east; and the ascending or going up thereof was of seven degrees, and a porch was before it. 
And the gate of the inner foreyard was against the gate of the north, and against the east side; and he meted from the gate till to the gate, an hundred cubits. 
And he led me out to the way of the south, and lo! the gate that beheld to the south; and he meted the posts thereof, and the porch thereof, by the former measures; 
and the windows thereof, and the porch in compass, as the other windows; the length of fifty cubits, and the breadth of five and twenty cubits. 
And by seven degrees men ascended to it, and a porch was before the gates thereof; and palm trees were engraved, one in this side, and another in that side, in the posts thereof. 
And the gate of the inner foreyard was in the way of the south; and he meted from the gate till to the gate in the way of the south, an hundred cubits. 
And he led me into the inner foreyard, to the south gate; and he meted the gate by the former measures; 
the chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the porch thereof by the same measures; and he meted the windows thereof, and the porch thereof in compass; fifty cubits of length, and five and twenty cubits of breadth. 
And he meted the porch by com-pass, the length of five and twenty cubits, and the breadth thereof of five cubits. 
And the porch thereof was to the outermore foreyard, and the palm trees thereof in the posts; and eight degrees were, by which men ascended through it or went up thereby. 
And he led me into the inner foreyard, by the east way; and he meted the gate by the former measures; 
the chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the porches thereof, as above; and he meted the windows thereof, and the porches thereof in compass; the length of fifty cubits, and the breadth of five and twenty cubits; 
and the porch thereof, that is, of the outermore foreyard; and palm trees engraved in the posts thereof, on this side and on that side; and in eight degrees was the ascending or the going up thereof. 
And he led me in to the gate that beheld to the north; and he meted by the former measures; 
the chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the porch thereof, and the windows thereof by compass; the length of fifty cubits, and the breadth of five and twenty cubits. 
The porch thereof beheld to the outermore foreyard; and the engraving of palm trees was in the posts thereof, on this side and on that side; and in eight degrees was the ascending or the going up thereof. 
And by all chambers a door was in the posts of gates; and there they washed burnt sacrifice. 
And in the porch of the gate were two boards on this side, and two boards on that side, that burnt sacrifice be offered on those or them, both for sin and for trespass. 
And at the outermore side, which ascendeth or goeth up to the door of the gate that goeth to the north, were two boards; and at the tother side, before the porch of the gate, were two boards. 
Four boards on this side, and four boards on that side; by the sides of the gate were eight boards, on which they offered the sacrifices. 
Forsooth four boards to burnt sacrifice were builded of square stones, in the length of one cubit and an half, and in the breadth of one cubit and an half, and in the height of one cubit; on which boards they shall set or put vessels, in which burnt sacrifice and slain sacrifice is offered. 
And the brinks of the boards be of an handbreadth, and be bowed again within by compass; forsooth on the boards were fleshes of offering. 
And without the inner gate were chambers of chanters, in the inner foreyard, that was in the side of the gate beholding to the north; and the faces of those or themwere against the south way; one of the side of the east gate, that beheld to the way of the north. 
And he said to me, This chamber, that beholdeth the south way, is of the priests that wake in the keepings of the temple. 
Soothly the chamber, that beholdeth to the way of the north, shall be of the priests that wake to the service of the altar; these be the sons of Zadok, which of the sons of Levi nigh to the Lord, for to minister to him. 
And he meted the foreyard, the length of an hundred cubits, and the breadth of an hundred cubits, by square, and the altar was before the face of the temple. 
And he led me into the porch of the temple; and he meted the porch by five cubits on this side, and five cubits on that side; and he meted the breadth of the gate, of three cubits on this side, and of three cubits on that side. 
But he meted the length of the porch of twenty cubits, and the breadth of eleven cubits, and by eight degrees men ascended to it; and pillars were in the posts, one on this side, and another on that side. 
