EZEKIEL.
Chapter 30.
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Son of man, prophesy thou, and say, The Lord God saith these things, Yell ye, Woe! woe! to the day, 
for the day is nigh; and the day of the Lord nigheth, the day of a cloud. The time of heathen men shall be; 
and a sword shall come into Egypt, and dread shall be in Ethiopia, when wounded men shall fall down in Egypt, and the multitude thereof shall be taken away, and the founda-ments thereof shall be destroyed. 
Ethiopia, and Libya, and Lydians, and all the residue common people, and Chub, and the sons of the land of bond of peace, shall fall down by sword with them. 
The Lord God saith these things, And they that underset Egypt shall fall down, and the pride of the lordship thereof shall be destroyed; from the tower of Syene they shall fall by sword therein, saith the Lord God of hosts. 
And they shall be destroyed in the midst of lands made desolate, and the cities thereof shall be in the midst of cities forsaken. 
And they shall know, that I am the Lord God, when I shall give fire in Egypt, and all the helpers thereof shall be all-broken. 
In that day messengers shall go out from my face in ships with three orders of oars, to all-break, or destroy, the trust of Ethiopia; and dread shall be in them in the day of Egypt, for without doubt it shall come. 
The Lord God saith these things, And I shall make to cease the multitude of Egypt in the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. 
He and his people with him, the strongest men of heathen men, shall be brought, to lose the land; and they shall draw out their swords on Egypt, and they shall fill the land with slain men. 
And I shall make dry the bottoms of floods, and I shall give the land into the hand of the worst men; and I shall destroy the land, and the fullness thereof in the hand of aliens; I the Lord spake. 
The Lord God saith these things, And I shall lose simulacra, and I shall make idols to cease from Memphis, and a duke of the land of Egypt shall no more be. And I shall give dread in the land of Egypt, 
and I shall lose, or destroy, the land of Pathros. And I shall give fire in Tanis, and I shall make my dooms in Alexandria. 
And I shall shed out mine indig-nation on Pelusium, the strength of Egypt; and I shall slay the multitude of Alexandria, 
and I shall give fire in Egypt. Pelusium, as a woman travailing of child, shall have sorrow, and Alexandria shall be destroyed, and in Memphis shall be each day’s anguishes. 
The young men of Heliopolis and of Bubastis shall fall down by sword, and those cities shall be led captives. 
And in Tahpanhes the day shall wax black, when I shall all-break there the sceptres of Egypt, and the pride of the power thereof shall fail therein. A cloud shall cover it; forsooth the daughters thereof shall be led into captivity, 
and I shall make dooms in Egypt; and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
And it was done in the eleventh year, in the first month, in the seventh day of the month, the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh, king of Egypt; and lo! it is not wrapped about, that health should be restored thereto, that it should be bound with linen clothes, and wound about with linen clothes, and that he might hold a sword again, when he had received strength. 
Therefore the Lord God saith these things, Lo! I to Pharaoh, king of Egypt; I shall make less his strong arm but broken, and I shall cast down the sword from his hand. 
And I shall scatter Egypt among heathen men, and I shall winnow them in lands. 
And I shall strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and I shall give my sword into the hand of him; and I shall break the arms of Pharaoh, and men slain before his face shall wail by wailings. 
And I shall strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down. And they shall know, that I am the Lord, when I shall give my sword in the hand of the king of Babylon; and he shall stretch forth it on the land of Egypt. 
And I shall scatter Egypt into nations, and I shall winnow them into lands; and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
