1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 9.
Therefore all Israel was numbered, and the sum of them was written in the book of the kings of Israel and of Judah; and they were translated or brought over into Babylon for their sin. 
And they that dwelled first in their cities, and in the possessions of Israel, and the priests, and the deacons or Levites, and Nethinims, 
dwelled in Jerusalem. Of the sons of Judah, and of the sons of Benjamin, also of the sons of Ephraim, and of Manasseh; 
of the sons of Judah; Uthai, the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the sons of Perez, the son of Judah; 
and of Shelah or the Shilonites; Asaiah, the first begotten, and his sons; 
and of the sons of Zerah; Jeuel, and his brethren; six hundred, fourscore and ten. 
And of the sons of Benjamin; Sallu, the son of Meshullam, the sons of Hodaviah, the sons of Hasenuah, 
and Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, and Elah the son of Uzzi, the sons of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephathiah, the son of Reuel, son of Ibnijah, 
and the brethren of them, by their meines; nine hundred and six and fifty. All these were princes of their kindreds by the houses of their fathers. 
And of the priests, Jedaiah, Jehoi-arib, and Jachin; 
and Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, wasthe bishop of the house of the Lord. 
Adaiah, son of Jeroham, son of Pashur, son of Malchijah, and Maasiai, son of Adiel, son of Jahzerah, son of Meshullam, son of Meshillemith, son of Immer, 
also their brethren, princes by their meines, were a thousand seven hundred and fourscore, men full strong in bodily might, to make the work of the service in the house of the Lord. 
And of the deacons or Levites; Shemaiah, the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari; 
also Bakbakkar, the carpenter, and Galal, and Mattaniah, the son of Micah, son of Zichri, son of Asaph, 
and Obadiah, the son of Shemaiah, son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah, the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, that dwelled in the porches of Netophathites. 
And the porters were Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman, and the brethren of them; Shallum was the prince; 
till to that time they kept by their whiles in the gate of the king at the east, of the sons of Levi. 
Shallum forsooth, the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, with his brethren, and with the house of his father; these be the sons of Korah upon the works of the service, keepers of the porches of the tabernacle, and the meines of them kept by whiles, or times, the entering of the castles or tents of the Lord. 
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, was the duke of them before the Lord. 
And Zechariah, the son of Meshel-emiah, was porter of the gate of the tabernacle of witnessing. 
All these chosen into porters by gates were two hundred and twelve, and they were described, or presented, in their own towns, which deacons, or ministers, David and Samuel, the prophet, ordained in their faith, 
both them and the sons of them in the doors of the house of the Lord, and in the tabernacle of witnessing, by their whiles. 
Porters were by four coasts, that is, at the east, at the west, at the north, and at the south. 
And their brethren dwelled in towns, and came in their sabbaths from time till to time. 
All the number of porters was betaken to these four deacons or Levites, and they kept the chambers, and the treasures of the house of the Lord. 
Also they dwelled in their keepings by the compass of the temple of the Lord, that when time were, they should open the gates early. 
Men of their kin were also on the vessels of the service; for the vessels were borne in at the number, and were borne out of them. 
And they that had the vessels of the saintuary betaken to their keeping, were sovereigns of the tried flour, and the wine, and oil, and incense, and sweet smelling spiceries. 
And some of the sons of the priests made ointments of sweet smelling spiceries. 
And Mattithiah, deacon or Levite, the first begotten son of Shallum of the kindred of Korah, was the sovereign of all things that were fried in the frying pan. 
And men of the sons of Kohath, the brethren of them, were on the loaves of setting forth, that they should make ready ever new loaves by each sabbath. 
These be the princes of chanters, by the meines of Levites, that dwelled in chambers, so that they should serve continually day and night in their service. 
The heads of Levites, by their meines, the princes, dwelled in Jerusalem. 
And there dwelled in Gibeon, Jeiel, the father of Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Maachah; 
Abdon, his first begotten son, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab, 
and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zech-ariah, and Mikloth; 
and Mikloth begat Shimeam; these dwelled even against their brethren in Jerusalem, with their brethren. 
And Ner begat Kish; and Kish begat Saul; and Saul begat Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal. 
And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Meribbaal begat Micah. 
And the sons of Micah were Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea, and Ahaz; 
and Ahaz begat Jarah; and Jarah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza; 
and Moza begat Binea, whose son Rephaiah begat Eleasah, of whom Azel was begotten. 
And Azel had six sons by these names, Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, Hanan; these were the sons of Azel. 
