ISAIAH.
Chapter 42.
Lo! my servant, I shall up-take him; my chosen, my soul pleased to itself in him. I gave my spirit on him, he shall bring forth doom to heathen men. 
He shall not cry, neither he shall take a person, neither his voice shall be heard withoutforth. 
He shall not break a shaken reed, and he shall not quench smoking flax; he shall bring out doom in truth. 
He shall not be sorrowful, neither troubled, till he set doom in the earth, and isles shall abide his law. 
The Lord God saith these things, making heavens of nought, and stretching forth them, making steadfast the earth, and those things that burgeon out of it, giving breath to the people, that is on it, and giving spirit to them that tread on it. 
I the Lord have called thee in rightfulness or rightwiseness, and I took thine hand, and kept thee, and I gave thee into a bond of peace of the people, and into light of folks. 
That thou shouldest open the eyes of blind men; that thou shouldest lead out of enclosing together a bound man, from the house of prison men sitting in darknesses. 
I am the Lord, this is my name; I shall not give my glory to another, and my praising to graven images. 
Lo! those things that were the first, be come, and I tell new things; I shall make heard to you, before that those or they begin to be made. 
Sing ye a new song to the Lord; his praising is from the last parts of the earth; ye that go down into the sea, and the fullness thereof, isles, and the dwellers of those. 
The desert be raised up, and the cities thereof; he shall dwell in the houses of Kedar; ye dwellers of the stone, praise ye; they shall cry from the top of hills. 
They shall set glory to the Lord, and they shall tell his praising in isles. 
The Lord as a strong man shall go out, as a man a warrior he shall raise fervent love; he shall speak, and shall cry; he shall be comforted on his enemies. 
I was still, ever I held my silence; I was patient, I shall speak as a woman travailing of child; I shall scatter, and I shall swallow together. 
I shall make desert high mountains and little hills, and I shall dry up all the burgeoning of them; and I shall set floods into isles, and I shall make ponds dry. 
And I shall lead out blind men into the way, which they know not, and I shall make them to go in paths, which they knew not; I shall set the darknesses of them before them into light, and shrewd things into rightful or even things; I did these words to them, and I forsook not them. 
They be turned aback; be they shamed with shame, that trust in a graven image; which say to a molten image, Ye be our gods. 
Ye deaf men, hear; and ye blind men, behold to see. 
Who is blind, no but my servant? and deaf, but he to whom I sent my messengers? Who is blind, but he that is sold? and who is blind, but the servant of the Lord? 
Whether thou that seest many things, shalt not keep? Whether thou that hast open ears, shalt not hear? 
And the Lord would, that he should hallow it, and magnify the law, and enhance it. 
But that people was ravished, and wasted; all they be the snare of young men, and be hid in the houses of prisons. They be made into raven, and none is that delivereth; into ravishing, and none there is that saith, Yield thou. 
Who is among you, that heareth this, perceiveth, and hearkeneth things to coming or to come? 
Who gave Jacob into ravishing, and Israel to destroyers? Whether not the Lord? He it is, against whom they sinned; and they would not go in his ways, and they heard not his law. 
And he shedded or poured out on them the indignation of his strong vengeance, and strong battle; and he burnt it in compass, and it knew not; and he burnt it, and it understood not. 
