NUMBERS.
Chapter 9.
And the Lord spake to Moses, in the desert of Sinai, in the second year after they went out of the land of Egypt, in the first month, and said, 
The sons of Israel make they pask in his time, 
that is, in the fourteenth day of this month, at eventide, by all the ceremonies and justifyings thereof. 
And Moses commanded to the sons of Israel, that they should make pask; 
which made pask in his time, in the fourteen day of the month, at eventide, in the hill or mount of Sinai; by all things that the Lord commanded to Moses, the sons of Israel did. 
Lo! forsooth some men unclean on the soul of man, that might not make pask in that day, nighed to Moses and to Aaron, 
and said to them, We be unclean on the soul of man; why be we defrauded, that we may not offer an offering to the Lord in his time, among the sons of Israel? 
To which Moses answered, Stand ye aside, or abideth, that I take counsel, what the Lord commandeth of you. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, A man of your folk that is unclean upon a soul, either is in the way far off, make he pask to the Lord 
in the second month, in the fourteenth day of the month, at eventide; with therf loaves and lettuces of the field he shall eat it. 
They shall not leave anything thereof till to the morrowtide, and they shall not break a bone thereof; they shall keep all the custom of pask. 
Forsooth if any man is clean, and is not in the way, and nevertheless made not the pask, that man shall be des-troyed from his peoples, for he offered not sacrifice to the Lord in his time set, or covenable; he shall bear his sin. 
Also if a pilgrim and a comeling is with you, make he pask to the Lord, by the ceremonies and the justifyings thereof; the same behest shall be with you, as well to a comeling as to a man born in the land. 
Therefore in the day in which the tabernacle was raised, a cloud covered it; soothly as the likeness of fire was on the tent, that is, tabernacle, from eventide till to the morrowtide. 
Thus it was done continually, a cloud covered it by day, and as the likeness of fire by night. 
And when the cloud that covered the tabernacle was taken away, then the sons of Israel went forth; and in the place where the cloud stood, there they setted tents. 
At the commandment of the Lord they went forth, and at his command-ment they setted the tabernacle. In all the days in which the cloud stood upon the tabernacle, they dwelled in the same place. 
And if it befelled that it dwelled much time upon the tabernacle, the sons of Israel were in the watches of the Lord, and they went not forth, 
in how many ever days the cloud was upon the tabernacle. At the commandment of the Lord they raised the tents, and at his commandment they did them down. 
If the cloud was standing upon the tabernacle from the eventide unto the morrowtide, and anon in the morrowtide had left, or gone thence, they went forth; and if, after a day and a night, the cloud had gone away, they scattered, either did down, the tents. 
Whether in two months, either in one month, either in longer time, the cloud had been upon the tabernacle, the sons of Israel dwelled in the same place, and went not forth; but anon as it had gone away, they moved the tents. 
By the word of the Lord they setted their tents, and by his word they went forth; and they were in the watches of the Lord, by his command-ment, by the hand of Moses. 
