WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
Chapter 10.
This wisdom of God kept him, that was formed first of God, the father of the world, when he alone was made of nought. And this wisdom led him out of his trespass, and led or brought him out of the slime of the earth, 
and gave to him virtue to hold together all things, that is, gave to him the lordship over all lower things. 
As the unjust man in his ire went away from this wisdom, brotherhood perished by the ire of man-quelling. From this as the unrightwise went away in his wrath, by the wrath of manslaughter perished fraternity. 
For which thing when the water did away the earth, wisdom healed again; governing a just or the rightwise man by a despisable tree. 
This wisdom also in the consent of pride, when nations had raised themselves, knew a just man or knew the rightwise, and kept without complaint or blame to God; and this wisdom kept strong mercy in sons. 
And it delivered a just man or the rightwise fleeing from wicked or unpious men perishing, when fire came down into the place of five cities. 
For which wicked men the land smoking is made desert, into witnessing of waywardness or shrewdness, and trees having fruits in uncertain time; and the mind of an unbelieveful soul standing an image of salt. 
For why men passing wisdom, not only fell in this, that they knew not goods or good things, but also they left to men the mind of their unwisdom, that in these sins, which they did, they might not be hid. 
Forsooth wisdom delivered them from sorrows, that keep it. 
Soothly this wisdom led forth a just man or rightwise by rightful or right ways, that fled from the ire or the wrath of his brother; and it showed him the realm or the kingdom of God, and gave to him the knowing of saints; it made him honest in travails, and fulfilled his travails. 
It helped him in the fraud or guile of deceivers, and made him honest. 
It kept him from enemies, and defended him from deceivers; and it gave to him a strong battle, that he should overcome, and know, that wisdom is the mightiest of all. 
This wisdom forsook not the just or rightwise man sold, that is Joseph, when his brothers sold him to men of Ishmael, but delivered him from sinners; and it went down with him into a ditch, that is, to the prison of the king of Egypt; 
and it forsook not him in bonds, till it brought to him the sceptre of the realm, and power against them that oppressed him; and it showed them liars, that defouled him, and it gave to him everlasting clearness. 
This wisdom delivered a just or rightwise people, and wholly without complaint or blame, from nations that oppressed it. 
It entered into the soul of God’s servant, and he stood against hideous kings, in great wonders and miracles or signs. 
And it yielded to just or rightwise men the meed of their travails, and led them forth in a wonderful or a marvellous way; and it was to them in covering of the day, and in the light of stars by night. 
And it translated, either led over, them through the Red or the Reed Sea; and bare them over through full much water. 
But it drowned down the enemies of them into the sea; and led them out from the depth of hells or the deepness of hell, that is, from the bottom of the sea. 
Therefore just men take away the spoils of wicked men or rightwise men took away the spoils of unpious men; and, Lord, they magnified in song thine holy name, and praised together thine hand overcomer. 
For why wisdom opened the mouth of dumb men, and made the tongues of young children not speaking to be wise or fair speaking. 
