JOB.
Chapter 2.
And it was done, in a day the sons of God were come to praise him, and they stood before the Lord, and Satan was come among them, and he stood in the sight of the Lord, 
and the Lord said to Satan, From whence comest thou? Which answered, and said, I have compassed the earth, and I have gone through it. 
And the Lord said to Satan, Whether thou hast not considered my servant Job, that none in the earth is like him; he is a simple man, and rightful or right, and dreading God, and going away from evil, and yet holding innocence? But thou hast moved me against him, that I should torment or vex him in vain. 
To whom Satan answered, and said, A man shall give skin for skin, and all things that he hath for his life; 
therefore put to thine hand, and touch his bone and his flesh, and then thou shalt see, that he shall curse thee in thy face. 
Therefore the Lord said to Satan, Lo! he is in thine hand; nevertheless keep thou his life. 
Therefore Satan went out from the face of the Lord, and he smote Job with the worst stinking botch, from the sole of his foot till to his top; 
and Job sat in a dunghill, and he shaved away the quitter or pus of him with a shell. 
Forsooth his wife said to him, Dwellest thou yet in thy simpleness, that is, fondness or foolishness? Curse thou God, and die. 
And Job said to her, Thou hast spoken as one of the fond or foolish women; if we have taken goods of the hand of the Lord, why forsooth suffer we not evils? In all these things Job sinned not in his lips. 
And then three friends of Job heard of all the evil that had befallen to him, and they came to him, each of them from his place, Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite; for they had said together to themselves, that they would come together, and visit Job, and comfort him. 
And when they had raised afar their eyes, they knew not him; and they cried out, and wept, and rent their clothes, and sprinkled dust on their heads into heaven. 
And they sat with him in the earth seven days and seven nights, and no man spake a word to him; for they saw, that his sorrow was great. 
