PSALMS.
Chapter 9.
Into the end, for the privates of the son, the psalm of David. Lord, I shall acknowledge to thee in all mine heart; I shall tell all thy marvels. 
Thou Highest, I shall be glad, and I shall be fully joyful or full out joy in thee; I shall sing to thy name. 
For thou turnest mine enemy aback; they shall be made feeble, and shall perish from thy face. 
For thou hast made my doom, and my cause; thou, that deemest rightfulness or rightwiseness, hast set on the throne. 
Thou hast blamed heathen men, and the wicked perished; thou hast done away the name of them into the world, and into the world of world. 
The swords of the enemy have failed into the end; and thou hast destroyed the cities of them. The mind of them hath perished with sound; 
and the Lord dwelleth without end. He hath made ready his throne in doom; 
and he shall deem the world in equity, he shall deem peoples in rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
And the Lord is made refuge, either help, to a poor man; an helper in covenable times in tribulation. 
And they, that know thy name, have hope in thee; for thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. 
Sing ye psalms to the Lord, that dwelleth in Zion; tell ye his studies among heathen men. 
God forgetteth not the cry of poor men; for he hath mind of them, and he seeketh the blood of them. 
Lord, have thou mercy on me; see thou my meekness of mine enemies. Which enhancest me from the gates of death; 
that I tell all thy praisings in the gates of the daughter of Zion. I shall be fully joyful or joy fully in thine health; 
heathen men be fast-set in the perishing, which they made. In this snare, which they hid, the foot of them is caught. 
The Lord making dooms shall be known; the sinner is taken in the works of his hands. 
Sinners be turned altogether into hell; all folks, that forget God. 
For the forgetting of a poor man shall not be into the end; the patience of poor men shall not perish into the end. 
Lord, rise thou up, a man be not comforted; the folks be deemed in thy sight. 
Lord, ordain thou a law-maker upon them; know folks, that they be men. 
