PROVERBS.
Chapter 8.
Whether wisdom crieth not oft; and prudence giveth her voice? 
In most sovereign and high tops, above the way, in the midst of paths, 
and it standeth beside the gates of the city, in those enclosings, and speaketh, and saith, 
A! ye men, I cry oft to you; and my voice is to the sons of men. 
Little children, that is, little of wit, understand ye wisdom; and ye unwise men, perceiveth in heart. 
Hear ye, for I shall speak of great things; and my lips shall be opened, to preach rightful or even things. 
My throat shall bethink truth; and my lips shall curse a wicked man. 
My words be just; no shrewd thing, neither wayward is in those. 
They be rightful or right to them that understand; and they be even to them that find knowing. 
Take ye my chastising or my discipline, and not money; choose ye teaching, more than treasure. 
For wisdom is better than all riches most precious; and all desirable thing may not be comparisoned thereto. 
I, wisdom, dwell in counsel; and I am among learned thoughts. 
The dread of the Lord hateth evil; I curse boast, and pride, and a shrewd way, and a double-tongued mouth. 
Counsel is mine, and equity; prudence is mine, and strength. 
Kings reign by me; and makers of laws deem just things by me. 
Princes command by me; and mighty men deem rightfulness or rightwisenessby me. 
I love them that love me; and they that wake early to me, shall find me. 
With me be riches, and glory; sovereign riches, and rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
My fruit is better than gold, and precious stone; and my seeds or my burgeoningsbe better than chosen silver. 
I go in the ways of rightfulness or rightwiseness, in the midst of the paths of doom; 
that I make rich them that love me, and that I fill their treasures or their treasuries. 
The Lord wielded me in the beginning of his ways; before that he made anything, at the beginning. 
From without beginning I was ordained; and from eld or old times, before that the earth was made. 
The Depths of waters were not yet; and I was conceived then. The wells of waters had not broken out yet, 
and hills stood not altogether yet by firm heaviness; before little hills I was born. 
Yet he had not made the earth; and floods, and the earths of the world. 
When he made ready heavens, I was present; when he compassed or enclosed the depths of waters by certain law and compass. 
When he made steadfast the air above; and weighed the wells of waters. 
When he compassed to the sea his mark; and setted or put law to waters, that they should not pass their coasts. When he weighed the foundaments of the earth; 
I was making all things with him. And I delighted by all days, and played before him in all time, 
and I played in the world; and my delights be to be with the sons of men. 
Now, therefore, sons, hear ye me; blessed be they that keep my ways. 
Hear ye teaching, and be ye wise men; and do not ye cast it away. 
Blessed is the man that heareth me, and that watcheth at my gates all day; and keepeth or waiteth at the posts of my doors. 
He that findeth me, shall find life; and he shall draw health of the Lord. 
But he that sinneth against me shall hurt his soul; all that hate me, love death. 
