JOB.
Chapter 37.
Mine heart dreaded of this thing, and is moved out of his place. 
It shall hear an hearing in the fearedfulness of his voice, and a sound coming forth out of his mouth. 
He beholdeth over all heavens; and his light is over the terms of the earth. 
Great sound shall roar after him, and he shall thunder with the voice of his greatness; and it shall not be sought out, when his voice is heard. 
God shall thunder in his voice wonderfully, which maketh great things that may not be sought out. 
He it is that commandeth the snow to come down upon the earth, and to the rains of winter, and to the rains of his strength. 
He marketh in the hand of all men, that all men know their works. 
An unreasonable beast shall go into his den, and shall dwell in his cave, either dark place. 
Tempest shall go out from the inner things, and cold from Arcturus, that is, a sign of five stars in the north. 
When God maketh blowing, frost waxeth altogether; and again full broad waters be poured out thereof. 
Wheat desireth clouds, and clouds spread abroad their light. 
The which clouds compass all things about by compass, whither ever the will of the governor leadeth them, to all thing to which he commandeth them upon the face of the world; 
whether in one lineage, either in his land, either in whatever place of his mercy he commandeth those or them to be found. 
Job, hearken thou to these things; stand thou, and behold the marvels of God. 
Whether thou knowest, when God commanded to the rains, that those or they shall show the light of his clouds? 
Whether thou knowest the great ways of the clouds, and the perfect knowings of those? 
Whether thy clothes be not hot, when the earth is blown with the south? 
In hap thou madest with him heavens, which most firm be founded, as of brass. 
Show thou to us, what we shall say to him; for we be wrapped in darknesses. 
Who shall tell to him, what things I speak? yea, if he speaketh, a man shall be devoured. 
And now men see not light; the air shall be made thick suddenly into clouds, and wind passing shall drive away those or them. 
Gold shall come from the north, and the fearedful praising of God. 
For we may not find him worthily; he is great in strength, and in doom, and in rightfulness or rightwiseness, and he may not be told out. 
Therefore men shall dread him; and all men, that seem to themselves to be wise, shall not be hardy to behold God. 
