EXODUS.
Chapter 31.
And the Lord spake to Moses, saying, 
Lo! I have called Bezaleel by name, the son of Uri, son of Hur, of the lineage of Judah; 
and I have filled him with the spirit of God, with wisdom, and under-standing, and knowing in all work, 
to find out, or cast, whatever thing may be made subtly of gold, and silver, and brass, 
and marble, and gems, and of diversity of woods. 
And I have given to him a fellow, Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the kindred of Dan; and I have put in their hearts the wisdom of each learned man, that they make all things which I have commanded to thee; 
the tabernacle of the bond of peace, and the ark of witnessing, and the propitiatory, or the table, that is thereon, and all the vessels of the tabernacle; 
also the board, and the vessels thereof, the cleanest candlestick with his vessels, and the altars of incense, 
and of burnt sacrifice, and all the vessels of them; the great washing vessel with his foundament; 
the holy clothes in service to Aaron the priest, and to his sons, that they be set in their office in holy things; 
the oil of anointing, and the incense of sweet smelling spiceries in the saintuary; they shall make all these things that I have commanded to thee. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, saying, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, See ye that ye keep my sabbath, for it is a sign betwixt me and you in your generations; that ye know, that I am the Lord, which halloweth you. 
Keep ye my sabbath, for it is holy to you; he that defouleth it, shall die by death; the soul of him, that doeth work in the sabbath, shall perish from the midst of his people. 
Six days ye shall do work; in the seventh day is sabbath, the holy rest to the Lord; each man that doeth work in this day shall die. 
The sons of Israel keep the sabbath, and hallow it in their generations; it is a covenant everlasting 
betwixt me and the sons of Israel, and it is a sign everlasting; for in six days God made heaven and earth, and in the seventh day he ceased of work. 
And when he had ful filled to speak to Moses, the Lord gave to Moses, in the hill of Sinai, two stone tables of witnessing, written with the finger of God. 
