PSALMS.
Chapter 109.
To victory, the psalm of David. God, hold thou not still my praising; 
for the mouth of the sinner, and the mouth of the guileful man, is opened on me. They spake against me with a guileful or treacherous tongue, 
and they encompassed me with words of hatred; and fought against me without cause. 
For that thing that they should love me, they backbited me; but I prayed for them. 
And they setted against me evils for goods; and hatred for my love. 
Ordain thou a sinner on him; and the devil stand on his right half. 
When he is deemed, go he out condemned; and his prayer be made into sin. 
His days be made few; and another take his bishopric. 
His sons be made fatherless; and his wife a widow. 
His sons trembling be borne over, and beg; and be they cast out of their habitations. 
An usurer seek all his chattel; and aliens ravish his travails. 
None helper be to him; neither any be that have mercy on his motherless children. 
His sons be made into perishing; the name of him be done away in one generation. 
The wickedness of his fathers come again into mind in the sight of the Lord; and the sin of his mother be not done away. 
Be they made evermore against the Lord; and the mind of them perish from earth. 
For that thing that he thought not to do mercy, and he pursued a poor man and a beggar; and to slay a man compunct in heart. 
And he loved cursing, and it shall come to him; and he would not give blessing, and it shall be made far from him. 
And he clothed cursing as a cloth, and it entered as water into his inner things; and as oil in his bones. 
Be it made to him as a cloth, with which he is covered; and as a girdle, with which he is evermore girded. 
This is the work of them that back-bite me with the Lord; and that speak evils against my life. 
And thou, Lord God, do with me for thy name; for thy mercy is sweet. Deliver thou me, 
for I am needy and poor; and mine heart is troubled within me. 
I am taken away as a shadow, when it boweth away; and I am shaken away as locusts. 
My knees be made feeble with fasting; and my flesh was changed for oil. 
And I am made a shame to them; they saw me, and moved their heads. 
My Lord God, help thou me; make thou me safe by thy mercy. 
And they shall know, that this is thine hand; and thou, Lord, hast done it. 
And they shall curse, and thou shalt bless, they that rise against me, be shamed; but thy servant shall be glad. 
They that backbite me, be clothed with shame; and be they covered with their shame, as with a double cloth. 
I shall acknowledge to the Lord greatly with my mouth; and I shall praise him in the middle of many men. 
Which stood nigh on the right half of a poor man; to make safe my soul from pursuers. 
