GENESIS.
Chapter 46.
And Israel went forth with all things that he had, and he came to the well of oath or Beersheba; and when sacrifices were slain there to the God of his father Isaac, 
he heard God by a vision in that night calling to him, and saying to him, Jacob! Jacob! To whom he answered, Lo! I am present. 
God said to him, I am the full strong God of thy father; do not thou dread, go down into Egypt, for I shall make thee there into a great folk; 
I shall go down thither with thee, and I shall bring thee turning again from thence, and Joseph shall set his hand on thine eyes. 
Jacob rose from the well of oath, and his sons took him, with their little children, and wives, in the wains which Pharaoh had sent to bear the eld or old man, 
and all things which he wielded in the land of Canaan; and he came into Egypt with all his seed, 
his sons, and their sons, and daughters, and all the generations together. 
Forsooth these be the names of the sons of Israel, that entered into Egypt; Jacob with his free children. The first begotten is Reuben; 
the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi. 
The sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a woman of Canaan. 
The sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
The sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Perez, and Zarah. Forsooth Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan; and the sons of Perez were born, Hezron, and Hamul. 
The sons of Issachar; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron. 
The sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel. 
These be the sons of Leah, which she childed to Jacob in Mesopotamia of Syria, with Dinah, her daughter; all the souls of his sons and daughters by Leah, three and thirty. 
The sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli. 
The sons of Asher; Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah; and Serah, the sister of them. The sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel. 
These were the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah, his daughter, and through whom Jacob begat these sixteen persons. 
The sons of Rachel, Jacob’s wife, were Joseph and Benjamin. 
And two sons were born to Joseph in the land of Egypt, Manasseh and Ephraim, which Asenath, the daughter of Potipherah, priest of Heliopolis, childed to him. 
The sons of Benjamin were Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, and Ehi, and Rosh, and Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard. 
These were the sons of Rachel, the which Jacob begat through her; all the persons were fourteen. 
The son of Dan; Hushim. 
The sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem. 
These were the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter. And Jacob begat these through Bilhah; all the souls were seven. 
And all the men that entered with Jacob into Egypt, and went out of his thigh, without his sons’ wives, were sixty and six. 
Forsooth the sons of Joseph, that were born to him in the land of Egypt, were two men. All the souls of the house of Jacob, that entered into Egypt, were seventy. 
Forsooth Jacob sent Judah before him to Joseph, that he should tell to him, and he meet with them in Goshen. And when Jacob had come thither, 
Joseph went up in his chariot to meet his father at the same place. And he saw Jacob, and felled on his neck, and wept betwixt embraces. 
And the father said to Joseph, Now I shall die joyful, for I have seen thy face, and I leave thee living. 
And Joseph spake to his brethren, and to all his father’s household, I shall go up, and tell to Pharaoh, and I shall say to him, My brethren, and the household of my father, that were in the land of Canaan, be come to me, 
and they be men keepers of sheep, and have busyness of flocks to be fed; they brought with them their sheep, and great beasts, and all things which they might have. 
And when Pharaoh shall call you, and shall say, What is your work? 
ye shall answer, We be thy servants, men shepherds, from our childhood till into this present time, both we and our fathers. Soothly ye shall say these things, that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen, for Egyptians loathe all keepers of sheep. 
