EZEKIEL.
Chapter 7.
And the word of the Lord was made to me, saying, 
And thou, son of man, the Lord God of the land of Israel saith these things, The end cometh, the end cometh, on the four coasts of the land. 
Now an end isup on thee, and I shall send in my strong vengeance up on thee, and I shall deem thee by thy ways, and I shall set all thine abominations against thee. 
And mine eye shall not spare on thee, and I shall not do mercy. But I shall set or put thy ways up on thee, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord. 
The Lord God saith these things, Lo! torment, lo! torment cometh; 
the end cometh, the end cometh; it shall wake fully against thee; lo! it cometh. 
Sorrow cometh up on thee, that dwellest in the land; the time cometh, the day of slaying is nigh, and not of glory of hills. 
Now anon I shall shed or pour out mine ire on thee, and I shall ful fill my strong vengeance in thee; and I shall deem thee by thy ways, and I shall put to thee all thy great trespasses. 
And mine eye shall not spare, neither I shall do mercy; but I shall put on thee thy ways, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord smiting. 
Lo! the day, lo! it cometh; sorrow is gone out. A rod flowered, pride burgeoned, 
wickedness rose in the rod of unpiety; not anything of them shall remain, and not of the people, neither of the sound of them, and no rest shall be in them. 
The time cometh, the day nighed; he that buyeth, be not glad, and he that selleth, mourn not; for why ire or wrathis on all the people thereof. 
For he that selleth, shall not turn again to that that he sold, and yet the life of them is in livers; for why the vision, either revelation, to all the multitude thereof shall not go again, and a man shall not be strengthened in the wickedness of his life. 
Sing ye with a trump, all men be made ready, and none is that shall go to battle; for why my wrath is on all the people thereof. 
Sword is without, pestilence and hunger within; he that is in the field, shall die by sword; and they that be in the city, shall be devoured by pestilence and hunger. 
And they shall be saved that flee of them; and they shall be as culvers of great valleys in the hills, all-quaking, each man in his wickedness. 
All hands shall be made numb, and all knees shall flow with waters. 
And they shall gird them with hair-shirts, and inward dread shall cover them; and shame shall be in each face, and baldness shall be in all the heads of them. 
The silver of them shall be cast out, and the gold of them shall be into a dunghill; the silver of them and the gold of them shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the strong vengeance of the Lord. They shall not ful fill their souls, and the wombs of them shall not be filled; for it is made the cause of stumbling out of their wickedness. 
And they setted the ornament of their brooches into pride; and they made of it the images of their abominations and simulacra. For this thing I gave it to them, into uncleanness. 
And I shall give it into the hands of aliens, to ravish, and to the unpious men of earth, into prey, and they shall defoul it. 
And I shall turn away my face from them, and they shall defoul my private place; and knaves shall enter into it, and shall defoul it. 
Make thou a closing together; for the land is full of doom of bloods, and the city is full of wickedness. 
And I shall bring the worst of heathen men, and they shall have in possession the houses of them; and I shall make the pride of mighty men to cease, and enemies shall have in possession the saintuaries of them. 
In anguish coming above, they shall seek peace, and it shall not be. 
Disturbing shall come on disturbing, and hearing on hearing; and they shall seek of the prophet a revelation, and law shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the elder men. 
The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed in wailing, and the hands of the people of the land shall be disturbed or troubled; by the ways of them I shall do to them, and by the dooms of them I shall deem them; and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
