EZEKIEL.
Chapter 1.
And it was done, in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, in the fifth day of the month, when I was in the midst of captives, beside the flood Chebar, heavens were opened, and I saw the revelations of God. 
In the fifth day of the month; that is the fifth year of the passing over of Jehoiachin, king of Judah; 
the word of the Lord was made to Ezekiel, priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of Chaldees, beside the flood Chebar; and the hand of the Lord was made there on him. 
And I saw, and lo! a whirlwind came from the north, and a great cloud, and fire wrapping in, and brightness in the compass thereof; and as the likeness of electrum from the midst thereof, that is, from the midst of the fire. 
And of the midst thereof was a likeness of four beasts. And this was the beholding of those or them, the likeness of a man in those or them. 
And four faces were to one, and four wings were to one. 
And the feet of those or themwere straight feet, and the sole of the foot of those or themwas as the sole of a foot of a calf, and sparkles, as the beholding of boiling brass. 
And the hands of a man were under the wings of those or the pens of them, in four parts; and those or they had faces and wings by four parts; 
and the wings of those or them were joined together of one to another. They turned not again, when they went, but each went before his face. 
Forsooth the likeness of the face of those or themwas the face of a man, and the face of a lion, at the right half of those four. Forsooth the face of an ox was at the left half of those four; and the face of an eagle was above those four. 
And the faces of those or them and wings of those or themwere stretched forth above. Two wings of each were joined together, and twain or two covered the bodies of those or them. 
And each of those or them went before his face. Where the fierceness of the wind was, thither those or they went, and turned not again, when they went. 
And the likeness of the beasts, and the beholding of them, was as of burning coals of fire, and as the beholding of lamps. This was the sight running about in the midst of the beasts, the shining of fire, and the lightning going out of the fire. 
And the beasts went, and turned again, at the likeness of lightning shining. 
And when I beheld the beasts, one wheel, having four faces, appeared on the earth, beside the beasts. 
And the beholding of the wheels and the work of those or themwas as the sight of the sea; and one likeness was of those four; and the beholding and the works of those or them, as if a wheel be in the midst of a wheel. 
Those or They going went by four parts of those or them, and turned not again, when those or they went. 
Also stature, and highness, and horrible beholding was to the wheels; and all the body of them was full of eyes in the compass of those four. 
And when the beasts went, the wheels also went together beside those or them. And when the beasts were raised up from the earth, the wheels also were raised up together. 
Whither ever the spirit went, when the spirit went thither, also the wheels following it were raised up together with them; for why the spirit of life was in the wheels. 
Those or they went with the beasts going, and those or they stood with the beasts standing. And with the beasts raised from the earth, also the wheels pursuing those beasts were raised together; for the spirit of life was in the wheels. 
And the likeness of the firmament was above the heads of the beasts, and as the beholding of horrible crystal, and stretched abroad on the heads of those beasts above. 
Forsooth under the firmament the wings of those beasts were straight out, of one to another; each beast covered his body with two wings, and another was covered in like manner. 
And I heard the sound of wings, as the sound of many waters, as the sound of high God. When those or they went, there was as a sound of a multitude, as the sound of hosts of battle; and when those or they stood, the wings of those or them were let down. 
For why when a voice was made on the firmament, that was on the heads of those or them, those or they stood, and let down their wings. 
And on the firmament, that was above the heads of those or them, was as the beholding of a sapphire stone, in the likeness of a throne; and on the likeness of the throne was a likeness, as the beholding of a man above. 
And I saw as a likeness of electrum, as the beholding of fire within, by the compass thereof; from the loins of him and above, and from the loins of him till to beneath, I saw as the likeness of fire, shining in compass, 
as the beholding of the rainbow, when it is in the cloud in the day of rain. This was the beholding of shining by compass. This was a sight of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. And I saw, and I fell down on my face; and I heard the voice of a speaker. 
