LEVITICUS.
Chapter 19.
The Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to all the company of the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, Be ye holy, for I am holy, your Lord God. 
Each man dread his father, and his mother. Keep ye my sabbaths; I am your Lord God. 
Do not ye be turned to idols, neither ye shall make to you molten gods; I am your Lord God. 
If ye offer a sacrifice of peaceable things to the Lord, that it be quemeful, 
ye shall eat it in that day, in which it is offered, and in the tother day; soothly whatever thing is left into the third day, ye shall burn it in fire. 
If any man eateth thereof after two days, he shall be unholy, and guilty of unfaithfulness, either wicked-ness; 
and he shall bear his wickedness, for he defouled the holy thing of the Lord, and his soul shall perish from his people. 
When thou shalt reap the fruits of thy land, thou shalt not cut till to the ground the corns of the land, neither thou shalt gather the ears of corn that be left; 
neither in thy vineyard thou shalt gather the raisins and the grains falling down, but thou shalt leave them to be gathered of poor men and of pilgrims; I am your Lord God. 
Ye shall not do theft. Ye shall not lie, and no man deceive his neighbour. 
Thou shalt not forswear in my name, neither thou shalt defoul the name of thy God; I am the Lord. 
Thou shalt not make false challenge to thy neighbour, neither thou shalt oppress him by violence. The hire of thy workman shall not dwell with thee unto the morrowtide. 
Thou shalt not curse a deaf man, neither thou shalt set or put an hurting before a blind man; but thou shalt dread thy Lord God, for I am the Lord. 
Thou shalt not do that, that is wicked, neither thou shalt deem unjustly; behold thou not the person of a poor man, neither honour thou the face of a mighty man; deem thou justly to thy neighbour. 
Thou shalt not be a slanderer, that is, a false accuser, neither a privy backbiter in the people; thou shalt not stand against the blood of thy neighbour; I am the Lord. 
Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart, but reprove thou him openly, lest thou have sin on him. 
Thou shalt not seek vengeance, neither thou shalt be mindful of the wrong of thy citizens; thou shalt love thy friend as thyself; I am the Lord. 
Keep ye my laws. Thou shalt not make thy beasts to engender with the beasts of another kind. Thou shalt not sow a field with diverse seed. Thou shalt not be clothed in a cloth which is woven of two things. 
If a man sleepeth with a woman by fleshly knowing of seed, which woman is an handmaid, or bond, yea, a noble woman of kin, and nevertheless is not again-bought by price, neither rewarded with freedom, she shall be beaten or both shall be scourged, and they shall not die, for she was not free. 
Soothly the man for his trespass shall offer a ram to the Lord, at the door of the tabernacle of witnessing; 
and the priest shall pray for him, and for his trespass, before the Lord; and the Lord shall be merciful to him, and the sin shall be forgiven. 
When ye have entered into the land of promise, and have planted therein apple trees, ye shall do away the first fruits; the apples which those trees bring forth shall be unclean to you, neither ye shall eat of them. 
Forsooth in the fourth year all the fruit of the trees shall be hallowed and be praiseable to the Lord; 
forsooth in the fifth year ye shall eat the fruits, and ye shall gather apples, which those trees bring forth; I am your Lord God. 
Ye shall not eat flesh with the blood. Ye shall not make vain divining, neither ye shall keep dreams; 
neither ye shall clip the hair round, neither ye shall shave the beard; 
and on dead men ye shall not cut your flesh, neither ye shall make to you any figures, either marks in your flesh; I am the Lord. 
Set thou not thy daughter to do lechery for hire, and the land be defouled, and be full-filled with sin. 
Keep ye my sabbaths, and dread ye my saintuary; I am the Lord. 
Bow ye not to astronomers or astrologers, neither ask ye anything of false diviners, that ye be defouled by them; I am your Lord God. 
Rise thou before an hoar head, and honour thou the person of an eld or old man, and dread thou thy Lord God; I am the Lord. 
If a comeling dwelleth in your land, and abideth among you, despise ye not him, 
but be he among you as a man born in the land; and ye shall love him as yourself, for also ye were comelings in the land of Egypt; I am your Lord God. 
Do not ye do any wicked thing in doom, in rule, in weight, and in measure; 
the balance be just or right, and the weights be even, the bushel be just or right, and the pint be even; I am your Lord God, that led you out of the land of Egypt. 
Keep ye all my behests, and all my dooms, and do ye them; I am the Lord. 
