JOB.
Chapter 22.
Then Eliphaz the Temanite answer-ed, and said, 
Whether a man, yea, when he is of perfect knowing, may be compar-isoned to God? 
What profiteth it to God, if thou art just or rightwise? either what shalt thou give to him, if thy life is without wem? 
Whether he shall dread, and shall he reprove thee, and shall he come with thee into doom, 
and not for thy full much malice, and thy wickednesses without number, these pains have fallen justly to thee? 
For thou hast taken away without cause the wed of thy brethren; and hast spoiled naked men of clothes. 
Thou gavest not water to the faint man; and thou withdrewest bread from the hungry man. 
In the strength of thine arm, thou haddest the land in possession; and thou, most mighty, heldest it. 
Thou lettest widows go away void, or unhelped; and all-brakest the shoulders of fatherless children. 
Therefore thou art now encom-passed with snares; and sudden dread troubleth thee. 
And thou guessedest, that thou shouldest not see darknesses; and that thou shouldest not be oppressed with the fierceness of waters flowing. 
Whether thou thinkest not, that God is higher than heaven, and is enhanced above the top of stars? 
And yet thou sayest, What soothly knoweth God? and, He deemeth as by darkness. 
A cloud is his hiding place, and he beholdeth not our things, and he goeth about the hinges of heaven, that is, the principal parts of heaven. 
Whether thou covetest to keep to the path of world’s, that is, the life of men living worldly and dissolutely, which wicked men have oft gone? 
Which were taken away before their time, and the flood destroyed the foundament of them. 
Which said to God, Go thou away from us; and as if Almighty God may do nothing, they guessed him, 
when he had filled their houses with goods; the sentence of which men be far from me. 
Just or Rightwise men shall see, and shall be glad; and an innocent man shall scorn them. 
Whether the up-raising of them is not cut down, and fire shall devour the remnants of them? 
Therefore assent thou to God, and have thou peace; and by these things thou shalt have best fruits. 
Take thou the law of his mouth, and set or put thou his words in thine heart. 
If thou turnest again to Almighty God, thou shalt be builded up; and thou shalt make wickedness far from thy tabernacle. 
He shall give a flint for earth, and golden strands or streams for a flint. 
And Almighty God shall be against thine enemies; and silver shall be gathered together to thee. 
Then on Almighty God thou shalt flow with delights; and thou shalt raise up thy face to God. 
Thou shalt pray him, and he shall hear thee; and thou shalt yield thy vows. 
Thou shalt deem a thing, and it shall come to thee; and light shall shine in thy ways. 
For he that is meeked shall be in glory; and he that boweth down his eyes, shall be saved. 
An innocent shall be saved; soothly he shall be saved in the cleanness of his hands. 
