LEVITICUS.
Chapter 14.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
This is the custom of a leprous man, when he shall be cleansed. He shall be brought to the priest, 
the which priest shall go out of the tents, and when he shall find that the leprosy is cleansed, 
he shall command to the man that is cleansed, that he offer for himself two quick sparrows, which is leaveful to eat, and cedar wood, and vermilion, that is, a red thread, and hyssop. 
And the priest shall command that one of the sparrows be offered in an earthen vessel upon quick waters; 
soothly he shall dip the tother sparrow quick, with the cedar wood, and with the red thread, and hyssop, in the blood of the sparrow offered, 
with which he shall sprinkle seven times him that shall be cleansed, that he be purged rightfully; and he shall deliver the quick sparrow, that it fly away into the field. 
And when the man hath washed his clothes, he shall shave all the hairs of his body, and he shall be washed in water, and he shall be cleansed, and he shall enter into the tents; so only that he dwell without his tabernacle by seven days; 
and that in the seventh day, he shave the hairs of the head, and his beard, and his brows, and the hairs of all his body. And when his clothes and his body be washed again, 
in the eighth day he shall take two lambs without wem, and a sheep of one year without wem, and three dimes, or three tenth parts, of triedwheat flour, into sacrifice, which be sprinkled with oil, and by itself a sextary, or a pint, of oil. 
And when the priest that purgeth the man, hath set him and all his things before the Lord, in the door of the tabernacle of witnessing, 
he shall take a lamb, and shall offer it for trespass, and shall offer the pint of oil; and when all things be offered before the Lord, 
he shall offer the lamb, where the sacrifice for sin and the burnt sacrifice is wont to be offered, that is, in the holy place; for as for sin, so and for trespass, the offering pertaineth to the priest; it is holy of holy things. 
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sacrifice which is offered for trespass, and shall put on the last part of the right ear of him which is cleansed, and on the thumbs of the right hand and foot. 
And he shall put of the pint of oil into his left hand, 
and the priest shall dip his right finger therein, and he shall sprinkle it seven times before the Lord. 
Soothly he shall pour that that is left of the oil in the left hand, on the last part of the right ear of him which is cleansed, and on the thumbs of the right hand and foot, and on the blood which is shed for trespass, 
and on his head. 
And the priest shall pray for him before the Lord, and shall make sacrifice for sin; 
then the priest shall offer the burnt sacrifice, and he shall put it in the altar with his flowing sacrifices, and the man shall be cleansed rightfully. 
That if he is poor, and his hand may not find those things that be said, he shall take for his trespass a lamb to the offering, that the priest pray for him, and the tenth part of triedwheat flour sprinkled altogether with oil, into sacrifice, and a pint of oil, 
and two turtles, either two culver birds, of which one shall be for sin, and the tother into burnt sacrifice; 
and he shall offer those or them in the eighth day of his cleansing to the priest, at the door of the tabernacle of witnessing, before the Lord. 
And the priest shall take the lamb offered for trespass, and the pint of oil, and he shall raise or rear them up together; 
and when the lamb is offered, he shall put of the blood thereof on the last part of the right ear of him that is cleansed, and on the thumbs of his right hand and foot. 
Soothly the priest put the part of oil into his own left hand, 
in which he shall dip the finger of his right hand, and he shall sprinkle it seven times against or before the Lord; 
and the priest shall touch the last part of the right ear of him that is cleansed, and the thumbs of the right hand and foot, in the place of the blood which is shed out for trespass. 
Soothly the priest shall put the tother part of the oil, that is in his left hand, upon the head of the man that is cleansed, that he please the Lord for him. 
And he shall offer a turtle, or a culver bird, 
one for trespass, and the tother into burnt sacrifice, with their flowing offerings. 
This is the sacrifice of a leprous man, that may not have all things into the cleansing of himself. 
And the Lord spake to Moses and Aaron, and said, 
When ye have entered into the land of Canaan, which I shall give to you into possession, if the wound of leprosy is in the houses, 
he shall go, whose the house is, and shall tell to the priest, and shall say, It seemeth to me, that as it were a wound of leprosy is in mine house. 
And the priest shall command, that they bear out of the house all things, before that he enter into it, that he may see whether it be leprosy, lest all things that be in the house be made unclean; and the priest shall enter afterward, that he see the leprosy of the house. 
And when he seeth in the walls thereof as little valleys, or crevices, defouled with paleness, either with redness, and lower than the tother higher part, 
he shall go out at the door of the house, and anon he shall enclose it by seven days. 
And he shall turn again in the seventh day, and shall see it; and if he findeth that the leprosy hath increased, 
he shall command that the stones be cast out, in which the leprosy is, and that those stones be cast out of the city into an unclean place. 
Soothly he shall command that that house be razed within by compass, and that the dust of the razing be sprinkled without the city, in an unclean place, 
and that other stones be put again for these, that be taken away, and that the house be daubed with other mortar. 
But if after that the stones be taken away, and the dust is borne out, and with other earth is daubed, 
the priest entereth, and seeth the leprosy turned again, and the walls sprinkled with spots, the leprosy is then steadfastly dwelling, and the house is unclean; 
which house they shall destroy anon, and they shall cast out of the city, into an unclean place, the stones thereof, and the wood, and all the dust. 
He that entereth into the house, when it is shut, shall be unclean till to eventide, 
and he that sleepeth in it, and eateth anything therein, he shall wash his clothes. 
That if the priest entereth, and seeth that the leprosy increased not in the house, after that it was daubed the second time, the priest shall cleanse it; for health is yielded againthereto. 
And to the cleansing thereof, the priest shall take two sparrows, and cedar wood, and vermilion, that is, a red thread, and hyssop. 
And when one sparrow is offered in a vessel of earth, on quick waters, 
the priest shall take the cedar wood, and hyssop, and the red thread, and the quick sparrow, and he shall dip, or wet, all these things in the blood of the sparrow offered, or slain, and in the quick waters; and he shall sprinkle the house seven times; 
and he shall cleanse it as well in the blood of the sparrow, as in the living waters, and in the quick sparrow, and in the cedar wood, and in the hyssop, and red thread. 
And when he hath let go the sparrow to fly away into the field freely, he shall pray for the house, and it shall be cleansed rightfully. 
This is the law of all leprosy, and of smiting, 
and of leprosy of clothes, and of houses, 
and of the sign of wound, and of little whelks breaking out, and of spot shining, and in colours changed into diverse spots, 
that it may be known, what is clean, or unclean. 
