BARUCH.
Chapter 1.
And these be the words of the book, which Baruch, the son of Neriah, son of Mahseiah, son of Zedekiah, son of Hasadiah, son of Hilkiah, wrote in Babylon; 
in the fifth year, in the seventh day of the month, in the time wherein Chaldeans took Jerusalem, and burnt it with fire. 
And Baruch read the words of this book to the ears of Jeconiah, son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and to the ears of all the people coming to the book; 
and to the ears of the mighty men, sons of kings, and to the ears of priests, and to the ears of the people, from the most unto the least of them or from the least unto the most of them, of all dwelling in Babylon, and at the flood Sud. 
Which heard, and wept, and fasted, and prayed in the sight of the Lord. 
And they gathered money, by or after that that each man’s hand might; 
and they sent into Jerusalem to Jehoiakim, the priest, the son of Hilkiah, son of Shallum, and to the priests, and to all the people that were found with him in Jerusalem; 
when he took the vessels of the temple of the Lord, that were taken away from the temple, to again-call into the land of Judah, in the tenth day of the month Sivan, or May; the silvern or silver vessels, which Zedekiah, the king of Judah, the son of Josiah, made, 
after that Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, had taken Jeconiah, and princes, and all mighty men, and the people of the land from Jerusalem, and led them bound into Babylon. 
And they said, Lo! we have sent to you riches or monies, of which buy ye burnt sacrifices, and incense, and make ye sacrifice, and offer ye for sin at the altar of your Lord God or the Lord our God. 
And pray ye for the life of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and for the life of Belshazzar, his son, that the days of them be on earth as the days of heaven; 
that the Lord give virtue to us, and lighten our eyes, that we live under the shadow of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and under the shadow of Belshazzar, his son; and that we serve them by many days, and find grace in the sight of them. 
And pray ye for us to our Lord God or to the Lord our God, for we have sinned to our Lord God or to the Lord our God, and his strong vengeance is not turned away from us, till into this day. 
And read ye this book, which we have sent to you, to be rehearsed in the temple of the Lord, in a solemn day, and in a covenable day. 
And ye shall say, Rightfulness is to our Lord God or To the Lord our God rightwiseness, but shame of our face is to us, as this day is, to all Judah, and to dwellers in Jerusalem, 
to our kings, and to our princes, to our priests, and to our prophets, and to our fathers. 
We sinned before our Lord God or before the Lord our God, 
and believed not, and trusted not in him. And we were not ready to be subject to him, and we obeyed not to the voice of our Lord God or the Lord our God, that we went in his commandments, which he gave to us; 
from the day in which he led our fathers out of the land of Egypt, till into this day, we were unbelieveful to our Lord God or to the Lord our God; and we were scattered, and went away, that we heard not the voice of him. 
And many evils and cursings, which the Lord ordained to his servant Moses, cleaved to us; which Lord led our fathers out of the land of Egypt, to give to us a land flowing milk and honey, as in this day. 
And we heard not the voice of our Lord God or of the Lord our God, by or after all the words of prophets, which he sent to us, and to our judges; 
and we went away, each man into the wit of his evil heart, to work to alien gods, and we did evils before the eyes of our Lord God or before the eyes of the Lord our God. 
