JOB.
Chapter 32.
Forsooth these three men left off to answer Job, for he seemed a just or rightwise man to them. 
And Elihu, the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram, was wroth, and had indignation; and he was wroth against Job, for he said himself to be just before God. 
And also Elihu had indignation against the three friends of Job, for they had found no reasonable answer, but only had condemned Job. 
Therefore Elihu abode Job speak-ing, for they, that spake, were elder men. 
But when he had seen, that these three men might not answer Job, he was wroth greatly. 
And Elihu, the son of Barachel the Buzite, answered, and said, I am younger in time, and ye be elder; therefore with head holden down, I dreaded to show to you my sentence. 
For I hoped that the longer age should speak, and that the multitude of years should teach wisdom. 
But as I see now, a spirit is in men, and the inspiration, either revelation, of Almighty God giveth understanding. 
Men of long life be not always wise, and eld or old men understand not doom. 
Therefore I shall say, Hear ye me, and I also shall show my knowing to you. 
For I abode your words, I heard your prudence, as long as ye disputed in your words. 
And as long as I guessed you to say anything, I beheld; but as I perceive, there is none of you, that may reprove Job, and answer to his words; 
lest peradventure ye say, We have found wisdom; God, and not man, hath cast him away. 
Job spake nothing to me, and I not by your words shall answer him. 
They much dreaded, and answer-ed no more, and took away speech from themselves. 
Therefore since I abode, and they spake not, they stood, and answered no more; 
also I shall answer my part, and I shall show my knowing. 
For I am full of words, and the spirit of my womb, that is, my mind, constraineth me. 
Lo! my womb is as must without a spigot or faucet, either a venting, that bursteth new vessels. 
I shall speak, and breathe again a little; I shall open my lips, and I shall answer. 
I shall not take the person of a man, and I shall not make God even to man. 
For I know not how long I shall abide alive, and if my Maker will take me away after a little time. 
