ECCLESIASTES.
Chapter 4.
I turned me to other things, and I saw false challenges, that be done under the sun, and the tears of the guiltless, and no man a comforter; and that they destitute, either forsaken, of the help of all men, may not against-stand the violence of them. 
And I praised more dead men than living men; 
and I deemed him, that was not born yet, and saw not the evils that be done under the sun, to be more blessed than ever either. 
Again I beheld all the travails of men, and busynesses; and I perceived that those be open to the envy of the neighbour; and therefore in this is vanity, and superfluous busyness. 
A fool foldeth together his hands, and eateth his flesh, 
and saith, Better is an handful, with rest, than ever either hand full, with travail and torment of soul. 
I beheld and found also another vanity under the sun; 
one there is, and he hath not a second; neither a son, nor a brother; and nevertheless he ceaseth not to travail, neither his eyes be filled with riches; neither he bethinketh him, and saith, To whom travail I, and deceive my soul in goods? In this also is vanity, and the worst torment. 
Therefore it is better, that two be together than one; for they have profit of their fellowship. 
If one falleth down, he shall be underset of the tother; woe to him that is alone, for when he falleth, he hath none to raise him up. 
And if twain sleep together, they shall be nourished together; how shall one be made hot? 
And if any man hath the mastery against one, twain or two against-stand him; a threefold cord is broken of hard. 
A poor man and wise is better than an eld or old king and foolish, that cannot before-see into time to coming or after. 
For sometime a man goeth out, both from prison and chains, to a realm; and another, born into a realm, is wasted by neediness. 
I saw all men living that go under the sun, with the second young waxing man, that shall rise for him. 
The number of people, of all that were before him, is great without measure, and they that shall come afterward, shall not be glad in him; but also this is vanity and torment of the spirit. 
