1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 13.
Forsooth David took counsel with the tribunes, and centurions, and all the princes; 
and he said to all the company of the sons of Israel, If it pleaseth you, and if the word that I speak goeth out from the Lord our God, send we to the remnant of our brethren to all the countries of Israel, and to the priests and deacons or Levites that dwell in the suburbs of cities, that they be gathered to us, 
and that we bring again to us the ark of our God; for we sought not at it in the days of Saul. 
And all the multitude answered, that it should be done so; for the word pleased all the people. 
Therefore David gathered together all Israel, from Shihor of Egypt till that thou enter into Hamath, that he should bring the ark of God from Kiriathjearim. 
And David went up, and all the men of Israel, to the hill of Kiriathjearim, which is in Judah, that he should bring from thence the ark of the Lord God sitting on cherubim, where his name was inwardly called. 
And they putted or put the ark of the Lord God on a new wain from the house of Abinadab; and Uzza and his brethren drove the wain. 
And David and all Israel played before the Lord, with all might, in songs, and in harps, and psalteries, and in tympans, and in cymbals, and trumps. 
And when they had come to the cornfloor of Chidon, Uzza stretched forth his hand to sustain, or stable, the ark; for the oxes waxing wild had bowed it down a little. 
Therefore the Lord was wroth against Uzza, and smote him, for he had touched the ark; and he was dead there before the Lord. 
And David was sorry, for the Lord had parted, or slain, Uzza; and he called that place The Parting of Uzza, as it is still called unto this present day. 
And David dreaded the Lord in that time, and said, How may I bring into me the ark of the Lord? 
And for this cause he brought not it to him, that is, into the city of David, but he turned it into the house of Obededom of Gath. 
Therefore the ark of God dwelled in the house of Obededom of Gath three months; and the Lord blessed his house, and all things that he had. 
