ISAIAH.
Chapter 55.
All that thirst, come ye to waters, or All ye thirsting, cometh to waters, and ye that have not silver, haste, buy ye, and eat ye; come ye, buy ye, without silver and without any exchanging, wine and milk. 
Why weigh ye silver, and not in loaves, and your travail, not in fullness? Ye hearing hear me, and eat ye good things, and your soul shall delight in fatness. 
Bow ye in your ear, and come ye to me; hear ye, and your soul shall live; and I shall smite with you a covenant everlasting, the faithful mercies of David. 
Lo! I gave him a witness to peoples, a duke and a commander to folks. 
Lo! thou shalt call folks, which thou knewest not; and folks, that knew not thee, shall run to thee; for thy Lord God, and the Holy of Israel, for he glorified thee. 
Seek ye the Lord, while he may be found; call ye him to help, while he is nigh. 
An unfaithful man forsake his way, and a wicked man forsake his thoughts; and turn he again to the Lord, and he shall have mercy on him, and to our God, for he is much to forgive. 
For why my thoughts be not your thoughts, and my ways be not your ways, saith the Lord. 
For as heavens be raised from earth, so my ways be raised from your ways, and my thoughts from your thoughts. 
And as rain and snow cometh down from heaven, and turneth no more again thither, but it filleth, or maketh moist, the earth, and beshed-deth it or poureth into it, and maketh it to burgeon, and giveth seed to him that soweth, and bread to him that eateth, 
so shall be my word, that shall go out of my mouth. It shall not turn again void to me, but it shall do whatever things I would, and it shall have prosperity in these things to which I sent it. 
For ye shall go out in gladness, and ye shall be led forth in peace; mountains and little hills shall sing praising before you, and all the trees of the country shall make joy with hands. 
A fir tree shall grow or go up for a gorse, either furze, and a myrtle tree shall wax for a nettle; and the Lord shall be named into a sign everlasting, that shall not be done away. 
