EZEKIEL.
Chapter 16.
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Son of man, make known to Jerusalem their abominations; 
and thou shalt say, The Lord God saith these things. A! thou Jerusalem, thy root and thy generation is of the land of Canaan; thy father is Amorite, and thy mother is Hittite. 
And when thou were born, thy navel was not cut away in the day of thy birth, and thou were not washed in water into health, neither salted with salt, neither wrapped in swaddling clothes. 
An eye spared not on thee, that it having mercy on thee, did to thee one of these things; but thou were cast forth on the face of earth, in the casting out of thy soul, in the day in which thou were born. 
Forsooth I passed by thee, and I saw thee defouled in thy blood; and I said to thee, when thou were in thy blood, Live thou; soothly I said to thee in thy blood, Live thou. 
I gave thee multiplied as the seed of a field, and thou were multiplied, and made great; and thou enteredest, and camest fully to women’s adorning; thy teats waxed great, and thine hair waxed; and thou were naked, and full of shame. 
And I passed by thee, and I saw thee, and lo! thy time, the time of lovers; and I spreaded abroad my clothing on thee, and I covered thy shame. And I swore to thee, and I made a covenant with thee, saith the Lord God, and thou were made a wife to me. 
And I washed thee in water, and I cleansed away thy blood from thee, and I anointed thee with oil. 
And I clothed thee with clothes of diverse colours, and I shodded thee in jacinth, and I girded thee with bis, or white silk; 
and I clothed thee with subtle things, and I adorned thee with ornaments. And I gave bands in thine hands, and a wreath about thy neck; 
and I gave a ring on thy mouth, and circles to thine ears, and a crown of fairness in thine head. 
And thou were adorned with gold and silver, and thou were clothed with bis, and ray-cloth with round images, and many colours. Thou atest clean flour of wheat, and honey, and oil, and thou were made fair full greatly; and thou increasedest into a realm, 
and thy name went out into heathen men for thy fairness; for thou were perfect in my fairness which I had set or put up on thee, saith the Lord God. 
And thou haddest trust in thy fairness, and didest fornication in thy name; and thou settedest or hast put forth thy fornication to each that passed forth, that thou shouldest be made his. 
And thou tookest of my clothes, and madest to thee high things set about on each side; and thou didest fornication on those or them, as it was not done, neither shall be done. 
And thou tookest the vessels of thy fairness, of my gold and of my silver, which I gave to thee; and thou madest to thee images of men, and didest fornication in those or them. 
And thou tookest thy clothes of many colours, and thou were clothed in those or them; and thou settedest mine oil and mine incense in the sight of those or them. 
And thou settedest my bread, which I gave to thee, flour of wheat, and oil, and honey, by which I nourished thee, in the sight of those or them, into an odour of sweetness; and it was done, saith the Lord God. 
And thou tookest thy sons and thy daughters, which thou engenderedest to me, and offeredest to those idols, for to be devoured. Whether thy fornication is little? 
Thou offeredest my sons, and gavest them, and hallowedest to those idols. 
And after all thine abominations and fornications, thou bethoughtest not on the days of thy young waxing age, when thou were naked, and full of shame, and were defouled in thy blood. 
And after all thy malice, woe, woe befell to thee, saith the Lord God. 
And thou buildedest to thee a bordello house, and madest to thee a place of whoredom in all streets. 
At each head of the way thou buildedest a sign of thine whoredom, and madest thy fairness abominable; and thou partedest thy feet to each man passing forth, and multipliedest thy fornications. 
And thou didest fornication with the sons of Egypt, thy neighbours of great fleshes, and thou multipliedest thy fornications, to stir me to wrath. 
Lo! I shall stretch forth mine hand on thee, and I shall take away thy justifying; and I shall give thee into the souls of them that hate thee, of the daughters of Palestines, that be ashamed in thy way full of great trespass. 
And thou didest fornication with the sons of Assyrians, for thou were not ful filled yet; and after that thou didest fornication, neither so thou were ful filled. 
And thou multipliedest thy fornication in the land of Canaan with Chaldees, and neither so thou were ful filled. 
In what thing shall I cleanse thine heart, saith the Lord God, when thou doest all these works of a woman, an whore, and greedy asker or and bold to whoredom? 
For thou madest thy bordello house in the head of each way, and thou madest thine high place in each street; and thou were not made as an whore full of annoying, increasing price, 
but as a woman adulteress, that bringeth in aliens on her husband. 
Hires be given to all whores, but thou hast given hire, or meed, to all thy lovers; and thou gavest to them, that they should enter to thee on each side, to do fornication with thee. 
And it was done in thee against the custom of women in thy fornications, and fornication shall not be after thee; for in that that thou gavest hires, and tookest not hires, the contrary was done in thee. 
Therefore, thou whore, hear the word of the Lord. 
The Lord God saith these things, For thy riches is shed out, and thy shame is showed in thy fornications on thy lovers, and on the idols of thine abominations, in the blood of thy sons, which thou gavest to them; 
lo! I shall gather together all thy lovers, with which thou were meddled or mingledtogether, and all men which thou lovedest, with all men which thou hatedest; and I shall gather them on thee on each side, and I shall make naked thy shame before them, and they shall see all thy filthhood. 
And I shall deem thee by the dooms of adulteresses, and shedding out blood; and I shall give thee into the blood of strong vengeance, and of fervor. 
And I shall give thee into the hands of them, and they shall destroy thy bordello house, and they shall destroy the place of thine whoredom; and they shall make thee naked of thy clothes, and they shall take away the vessels of thy fairness, and they shall forsake thee naked, and full of shame. 
And they shall bring on thee a multitude, and they shall stone thee with stones, and they shall slay thee with their swords. 
And they shall burn thine houses with fire, and they shall make dooms in thee, before the eyes of full many women; and thou shalt cease to do fornication, and thou shalt no more give hires. 
And mine indignation shall rest in thee, and my fervent love shall be taken away from thee; and I shall rest, and I shall no more be wroth, 
for thou haddest not mind on the days of thy young waxing age, and thou stirredest me to ire in all these things. Wherefore and I gave thy ways in thine head, saith the Lord God, and I did not after thy great trespasses, in all these thine abominations. 
Lo! each man that saith a proverb commonly, shall take it in thee, and shall say, As the mother, so and the daughter of her. 
Thou art the daughter of thy mother, that casted away her husband and her sons; and thou art the sister of thy sisters, that casted away their husbands and their sons. Thy mother is Hittite, and thy father is Amorite; 
and thy greater sister is Samaria, she and her daughters, that dwell at thy left side; but thy sister less than thou, that dwelleth at thy right side, is Sodom, and her daughters. 
But thou wentest not in the ways of them, neither thou didest after the great trespasses of them; hast thou done almost a little less curseder deeds than they, in all thy ways? 
Yea, as I live, saith the Lord God, for Sodom, thy sister, did not, she and her daughters, as thou didest, and thy daughters. 
Lo! this was the wickedness of Sodom, thy sister, pride, fullness of bread, and abundance, and idleness of her, and of her daughters; and they putted not hand to a needy man and poor. 
And they were enhanced, and did other abominations before me; and I took them away, as thou hast seen. 
And Samaria sinned not the half of thy sins, but thou hast overcome them in thy great trespasses; and thou hast justified thy sisters in all thine abominations, which thou wroughtest. 
Therefore and thou bear thy shame, that hast overcome thy sisters with thy sins, and didest more cursedly than they; for they be justified of thee. Therefore and be thou shamed, and bear thy shame, which hast justified thy sisters. 
And I shall convert and restore them by the conversion of Sodom with her daughters, and by the conversion of Samaria and of her daughters; and I shall convert thy turning again in the midst of them, 
that thou bear thy shame, and be shamed in all things which thou didest, comforting them. 
And thy sister Sodom and her daughters shall turn again to their eldness or oldnessor old ways; and Samaria and her daughters shall turn again to their eldness; and thou and thy daughters turn again to your eld-ness. 
Forsooth Sodom, thy sister, was not heard in thy mouth, in the day of thy pride, 
before that thy malice was showed, as in this time, into shame of the daughters of Syria, and all daughters in thy compass, of the daughters of Palestines, that be about thee by compass. 
Thou hast borne thy great trespass, and thy shame, saith the Lord God. 
For the Lord God saith these things, And I shall do to thee as thou despisedest the oath, that thou shouldest make void the covenant; 
and I shall have mind on my covenant with thee in the days of thy youth, and I shall raise to thee a covenant everlasting. 
And thou shalt have mind on thy ways, and shalt be ashamed, when thou shalt receive thy sisters greater than thou, with thy less sisters; and I shall give them into daughters to thee, but not of thy covenant. 
And I shall raise, or establish, my covenant with thee, and thou shalt know, that I am the Lord, 
that thou have mind, and be ashamed; and that it be no more to thee to open the mouth for thy shame, when I shall be pleased to thee in all things which thou didest, saith the Lord God. 
