PSALMS.
Chapter 49.
To victory, a psalm to the sons of Korah. All ye folks, hear these things; all ye that dwell in the world, perceive with ears. 
All the sons of earth, and the sons of men; together the rich man, and the poor into one. 
My mouth shall speak wisdom; and the thinking of mine heart shall speak prudence. 
I shall bow down mine ear into a parable; I shall open my reason set forth in a psaltery. 
Why shall I dread in the evil day? the wickedness of mine heel shall encompass me. 
Which trust in their own virtue; and have glory in the multitude of their riches. 
A brother again-buyeth not, shall a man again-buy? and he shall not give to God his pleasing. 
And he shall not be able to give the price of ransom for his soul; and he shall travail into without end, 
and he shall live yet into the end. He shall not see perishing, 
when he shall see wise men dying; the unwise man and the fool shall perish together. And they shall leave their riches to aliens; 
and the sepulchres of them be the houses of them without end. The tabernacles of them be in generation and in generation; they called their names in their lands. 
A man/Man, when he was in honour, understood not; he is compar-isoned to unwise beasts, and is made like to those or them. 
This way of them is cause of stumbling to them; and afterward they shall please altogether in their mouth. 
As sheep they be put in hell; death shall gnaw them. And just men shall be lords of them in the morrow-tide; and the help of them shall wax eld or old in hell, for or from the glory of them. 
Nevertheless God shall again-buy my soul from the power of hell; when he shall take me. 
Dread thou not, when a man is made rich; and when the glory of his house is multiplied. 
For when he shall die, he shall not take all things with him; and his glory shall not go down with him. 
For his soul shall be blessed in his life; he shall acknowledge to thee, when thou hast done well to him. 
He shall enter till into the gener-ations of his fathers; and till into with-out end he shall not see light. 
A man/Man, when he was in honour, understood not; he is com-parisoned to unwise beasts, and is made like to those or them. 
