NUMBERS.
Chapter 22.
And the sons of Israel went forth, and setted tents in the field places of Moab, where Jericho is set, over Jordan. 
Soothly Balak, the son of Zippor, saw all things that Israel had done to Amorites, 
and that men of Moab dreaded Israel, and they might not bear the assailing of Israel. 
And he said to the greater men in birth of Midian, So this people shall do away all men that dwell in our coasts, as an ox is wont to do away an herb till to the roots. Forsooth he, that is, Balak, was king in that time in Moab. 
Therefore he sent messengers to Balaam, the son of Beor, a false diviner, that dwelled on, or nigh, the flood of the land of the sons of Amaw, that they should call him, and should say, Lo! a people went out of Egypt, which people covered the face of the earth, and sitteth against me. 
Therefore come thou, and curse this people, that is stronger than I, if in any manner I may smite and drive him out of my land; for I know, that he is blessed whom thou blessest, and he is cursed whom thou hast cursed. 
The elder men of Moab and the elder men of Midian went forth, having in their hands the price of false divining; and when they had come to Balaam, and had told to him all the words of Balak, 
he answered, Dwell ye here tonight, and I shall answer to Balak whatever thing the Lord shall say to me. And the princes of Moab dwelled at Balaam. 
God came, and said to him, What will or desire these men with thee? 
Balaam answered, Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moabites, sent to me, and said, 
Lo! a people that is gone out of Egypt hath covered the face of the earth; come thou, and curse them, if in any manner I may fight with them, and drive them away. 
And God said to Balaam, Do not thou go with them, neither curse thou the people, for it is blessed. 
And Balaam rose early, and said to the princes, Go ye into your land, for God hath forbade me to come with you. 
The princes turned again, and said to Balak, Balaam would not come with us. 
Again Balak sent many more, and nobler, men, than he had sent before; 
which said, when they had come to Balaam, Balak, the son of Zippor, saith thus, Tarry thou not to come to me, 
ready to honour thee; and what-ever thing thou wilt, I shall give to thee; come thou, and curse this people. 
Balaam answered, Though Balak shall give to me his house full of silver and of gold, I shall not be able to change the word of my God, that I speak either more or less. 
I beseech you, that ye dwell here also in this night, that I may know what the Lord shall answer again to me. 
Therefore the Lord came to Balaam in that night, and said to him, If these men come to call thee, rise thou, and go with them, so only that thou do that that I shall command to thee. 
Balaam rose early, and when his she-ass was saddled, he went forth with them. 
And God was wroth with Balaam. And the angel of the Lord stood in the way against Balaam, that sat upon the she-ass, and had two servants with him. 
The she-ass saw the angel standing in the way, with sword drawn, and the ass turned herself from the way, and went by the field. And when Balaam beat her, and would lead her again to the path, 
the angel stood in the straitness of two walls with which the vineries or vines were encompassed. 
And the female ass saw the angel, and she went herself nigh to the wall, and she hurtled the foot of the sitter upon her; and he beat again her. 
And nevertheless the angel went to a strait place, where was no going out of the way, neither to the right side, nor to the left, and stood against Balaam 
And when the she-ass saw the angel standing, she felled down under the feet of the sitter upon her, the which was wroth full greatly, and he beat her sides with a staff. 
And the Lord opened the mouth of the she-ass, and she spake, What have I done to thee? why smitest thou me, lo! now the third time? 
Balaam answered, For thou hast dis-served, and hast scorned me; I would that I had a sword to slay thee. 
And the she-ass said, Whether I am not thy beast upon which thou were wont to ride evermore till into this present day? say thou, what like thing to this I did ever to thee? And Balaam said, Never thus thou servedest me. 
Anon the Lord opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel standing in the way, holding a drawn sword in his hand; and Balaam worshipped him lowly into the earth. 
To whom the angel said, Why hast thou thrice beaten thine she-ass? I came to be adversary to thee, for thy way is wayward, and contrary to me; 
and if the she-ass had not bowed away from the way, and given place to the against-stander, I had slain thee, and the ass should have lived. 
Balaam said, I have sinned, not witting that thou stoodest against me; and now, if it displeaseth thee that I go, I shall turn again. 
The angel said, Go thou with these men, but beware, that thou speak not any other thing than I shall command to thee. Therefore Balaam went with the princes. 
And when Balak heard that Balaam was nigh, he went out into the coming of him, in Ar, the city of Moabites, which is set in the last coast of Arnon. 
And Balak said to Balaam, I sent messengers to call thee; why camest thou not anon to me? whether for I may not yield meed to thy coming? 
To whom Balaam answered, Lo! I am present, whether I shall be able to speak other thing than that, that God shall put in my mouth? 
Therefore they went forth together, and they came into a city, which was in the last coast of his realm. 
And when Balak had slain sheep, and oxen, he sent gifts to Balaam and the princes that were with him. 
Forsooth when the morrowtide was made, Balak led Balaam to the high places of Baal, and he beheld the last part of the people, that is, all the host till to the last part. 
