EXODUS.
Chapter 36.
Therefore Bezaleel, and Aholiab, and each wise man, to whom the Lord gave wisdom and understanding, that they know how to work craftily, made things that were needful into the uses of the saintuary, and which the Lord commanded to be made. 
And when Moses had called them, and each learned man, to whom the Lord had given wisdom and knowing, and the which proffered themselves by their own free will to make the work, 
Moses betook to them all the gifts of the sons of Israel. And when they were busy in their work each day, the people offered their avows early. 
Wherefore the workmen were compelled to come, 
and they said to Moses, The people offereth more than is needful. 
Therefore Moses commanded to be cried by the voice of a crier, Neither man nor woman offer more anything in the work of the saintuary; and so it was ceased from gifts to be offered, 
for the things offered sufficed, and were over-abundant. 
And all the wise men in heart, to fulfill the work of the tabernacle, made ten curtains of bis folded again, and of jacinth, and purple, and of red silk twice-dyed, by diverse work, and by craft of many colours. 
Of which curtains one had in length eight and twenty cubits, and four cubits in breadth; one measure was of all the curtains. 
And he joined five curtains one to another, and he coupled other five to themselves together; 
and he made eyelets of jacinth in the hem of the one curtain on ever either side, and in like manner in the hem of the tother curtain, 
that the eyelets shall come together against themselves, and they shall be joined together; 
wherefore he melted out also fifty golden rings, that shall hold the eyelets of the curtains; and so one tabernacle was made. 
He made also eleven says of the hairs of goats, to cover the roof of the tabernacle; 
one say had thirty cubits in length, and four cubits in breadth; all the says were of one measure; 
of which says he joined five by themselves, and six others by them-selves. 
And he made fifty eyelets in the hem of one say, and fifty in the hem of the tother say, that those or they should be joined to themselves together; 
and he made fifty buckles of brass by which the roof was fastened together, that one covering were made of all the says. 
He made also a covering of the tabernacle of the skins of rams made red, and another veil above, of the skins of jacinth. 
He made also the standing boards of the tabernacle, of the wood of shittim; 
the length of one board was of ten cubits, and the breadth held one cubit and an half. 
Two indentings or rabbetings were by each board, that the one should be joined to the tother; so he made in all the boards of the taber-nacle. 
Of which boards twenty were at the midday coast against the south, 
with forty bases of silver; two bases were set under one board on ever either side of the corners, where the indentings or rabbetings of the sides were ended in the corners. 
And at the coast of the tabernacle that beholdeth to the north, he made twenty boards, 
with forty bases of silver, two bases by each board. 
Forsooth against the west, he made six boards, 
and twain or two other boards by each corner of the tabernacle behind, 
which were joined from beneath till to above, and were borne into one joining altogether; so he made on ever either part by the corners, 
that they were eight boards altogether, and they had sixteen bases of silver, that is, two bases under each board. 
He made also bars of the wood of shittim, five bars to hold together the boards of the one side of the tabernacle, 
and five other bars to shape together the boards of the tother side; and without these, he made five other bars for the boards at the west coast of the tabernacle against the sea. 
He made also another bar, that should come by the middle boards, from corner till to corner. 
Forsooth he overgilded the walls made of the boards, and he melted out their silveren bases, and he made their golden rings, by which the bars might be brought in, and he covered those same bars with golden plates. 
He made also a veil diverse and parted, of jacinth, and purple, and red silk twice-dyed, and bis folded again, by the work of embroidery. 
He made also four pillars of wood of shittim, which pillars with the hooks he overgilded, and he melted out their silveren bases. 
He made also in the entering of the tabernacle a curtain of jacinth, and purple, and red silk twice-dyed, and bis folded again, by the work of embroidery. 
And he made five pillars with their hooks, which he covered with gold; and he melted out their brazen bases, and their holdings, which he covered with gold. 
