1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 27.
Forsooth the sons of Israel by their number, the princes of meines, the tribunes, and centurions, and prefects, that ministered to the king by their companies of knights, entering in and going out by each month in the year, were sovereigns, each by him-self, upon four and twenty thousand. 
Jashobeam, the son of Zabdiel, was sovereign of the first company in the first month, and under him were four and twenty thousand; 
of the sons of Perez, was the prince of all the princes in the host, in the first month. 
Dodai Ahohite had the company of the second month, and after him-self he had another man, Mikloth by name, that governed a part of the host of four and twenty thousand. 
And Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, the priest, was duke of the third company in the third month, and four and twenty thousand were in his parting; 
that is Benaiah, the strongest man among thirty, and above thirty; and Ammizabad, his son, was sovereign of his company after him. 
In the fourth month, the fourth prince was Asahel, the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah, his son, after him, and four and twenty thousand were in his company. 
In the fifth month, the fifth prince was Shamhuth Izrahite, and four and twenty thousand were in his company. 
In the sixth month, the sixth prince was Ira, the son of Ikkesh, Tekoite, and four and twenty thousand were in his company. 
In the seventh month, the seventh prince was Helez the Pelonite, of the sons of Ephraim, and four and twenty thousand were in his company. 
In the eighth month, the eighth prince was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the generation of Zarhites or the sons of Zareh, and four and twenty thousand were in his company. 
In the ninth month, the ninth prince was Abiezer the Anetothite, of the generation of Benjamin, and four and twenty thousand were in his company. 
In the tenth month, the tenth prince was Maharai, and he was Netophath-ite, of the generation of Zarhites, and four and twenty thousand were in his company. 
In the eleventh month, the eleventh prince was Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the sons of Ephraim, and four and twenty thousand were in his company. 
In the twelfth month, the twelfth prince was Heldai the Netophathite, of the generation of Othniel, and four and twenty thousand were in his company. 
Forsooth these were the sovereigns of the lineages of Israel; duke Eliezer, the son of Zichri, was sovereign to Reubenites; duke Shephatiah, the son of Maachah, was sovereign to Simeon-ites; 
Hashabiah, the son of Kemuel, was sovereign to the Levites; Zadok was sovereign to Aaronites; 
Elihu, the brother of David, was sovereign to the lineage of Judah; Omri, the son of Michael, was sov-ereign to Issacharites. 
Ishmaiah, the son of Obadiah, was sovereign to Zebulunites; Jerimoth, the son of Azriel, was sovereign to Naphtalites; 
Hoshea, the son of Azaziah, was sovereign to the sons of Ephraim; Joel, the son of Pedaiah, was sovereign to the half lineage of Manasseh; 
and Iddo, the son of Zechariah, was sovereign to the other half lineage of Manasseh in Gilead; and Jaasiel, the son of Abner, was sovereign to Benjamin; 
and Azareel, the son of Jeroham, was sovereign to Dan; these were the princes of the sons of Israel. 
And David would not number them that were within twenty years, for the Lord had said, that he would multiply Israel as the stars of heaven. 
Joab, the son of Zeruiah, began for to number Israel, but he fulfilled not; for ire of God fell upon Israel for this thing, and therefore the number of them that were numbered, was not told in the books of chronicles of king David. 
Forsooth Azmaveth, the son of Adiel, was sovereign on the treasures or treasuries of the king; but Jehona-than, the son of Uzziah, was sovereign over these treasures or treasuries, that were in cities, and in towns, and in towers. 
And Ezri, the son of Chelub, was sovereign upon the work of husbandry, and upon the earth-tillers, that tilled the land; 
and Shimei the Ramathite was sovereign upon the tillers of vineries; and Zabdi the Shiphmite was sovereign upon the wine cellars; 
for Baalhanan the Gederite was sovereignup on the olive places, and the fig places, that were in the field places; and Joash was sovereign upon the shops, either cellars, of oil; 
and Shitrai the Sharonite was sovereign upon the droves that were pastured in Sharon; and Shaphat, the son of Adlai, was over the oxen in valleys; 
and Obil of Ishmael was over the camels; and Jehdeiah the Meronothite was over the asses; 
and Jaziz the Hagerite was over the sheep; all these were princes of the chattel of king David. 
And Jonathan, the brother of David’s father, was a counsellor, a mighty man, and prudent, and lettered; he and Jehiel, the son of Hachmoni, were with the sons of the king. 
Also Ahithophel was a counsellor of the king; and Hushai the Archite was a friend of the king. 
After Ahithophel was Jehoiada, the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar; but Joab was prince of the host of the king. 
