DANIEL.
Chapter 10.
In the third year of the realm of Cyrus, king of Persians, a word was showed to Daniel, Belteshazzar by name; and a true word, and of great strength, and he understood the word; for why understanding is needful in vision. 
In those days I, Daniel, mourned by the days of three weeks; 
I ate not desirable bread, and flesh, and wine entered not into my mouth, but neither I was anointed with ointment, till the days of three weeks were ful filled. 
Forsooth in the four and twentieth day of the first month, I was beside the great flood, which is Tigris. 
And I raised mine eyes, and I saw, and lo! one man was clothed with linen clothes, and his reins were girded with shining gold; 
and his body was as chrysolyte, and his face was as the likeness of lightning, and his eyes were as a burning lamp, and his arms and those things that were beneath till to the feet were as the likeness of brass being white, and the voice of his words was as the voice of a multitude. 
Forsooth I, Daniel, alone saw the vision; certainly the men that were with me saw not, but full great fearedfulness fell in on them, and they fled into an hid place. 
But I was left alone, and I saw this great vision, and strength dwelled not in me; but also my likeness was changed in me, and I was stark, or dried up, or withered, and I had not in me anything of strengths. 
And I heard the voice of his words, and I heard, and lay astonied on my face, and my face cleaved to the earth. 
And lo! an hand touched me, and raised me on my knees, and on the toes of my feet or upon the fingers of mine hands. 
And he said to me, Thou, Daniel, a man of desires, understand the words which I speak to thee, and stand in thy degree; for now I am sent to thee. And when he had said this word to me, I stood quaking. 
And he said to me, Daniel, do not thou dread, for from the first day in which thou settedest thine heart to understand, that thou shouldest torment thee in the sight of thy God, thy words were heard, and I came for thy words. 
Forsooth the prince of the realm of Persians against-stood me one and twenty days, and lo! Michael, one of the first princes, came into mine help, and I dwelled still there beside the king of Persians. 
Forsooth I am come to teach thee, what things shall come to thy people in the last days; for yet the vision is delayed into days. 
And when he spake to me by such words, I casted down my cheer to the earth, and was still. 
And lo! as the likeness of the son of a man touched my lips; and I opened my mouth, and spake, and said to him that stood before me, My Lord, in thy sight my joints be unknit, and nothing of strengths dwelled in me. 
And how shall the servant of my Lord be able to speak with my Lord? nothing of strengths dwelled in me, but also my breath is closed betwixt, or stopped. 
Therefore again the one as the sight of a man touched me, and comforted me, 
and said, Man of desires, do not thou dread; peace be to thee, be thou comforted, and be thou strong. And when he spake with me, I waxed strong, and said, My Lord, speak thou, for thou hast comforted me. 
And he said, Whether thou knowest not, why I came to thee? And now I shall turn again, to fight against the prince of Persians. For when I went out, the prince of Greeks appeared coming. 
Nevertheless I shall tell to thee that, that is expressed in the scripture of truth; and none is mine helper in all these things, no but Michael, your prince. 
