ISAIAH.
Chapter 48.
The house of Jacob, that be called by the name of Israel, and went out of the waters of Judah, hear these things, which swear in the name of the Lord, and have mind on God of Israel, not in truth, neither in rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
For they be called of the holy city, and be stablished on the God of Israel, the Lord of hosts is his name. 
From that time I told out the former things, and those went out of my mouth; and I made them known; suddenly I wrought, and those things came. 
For I knew that thou art hard, and thy noll is a sinew of iron, and thy forehead is of brass. 
I before-said to thee from that time; before that those things came, I showed to thee; lest peradventure thou wouldest say, Mine idols did these things, and my graven images, and my molten images, sent these things, 
which thou heardest. See thou all things, but ye told not. I made heard new things to thee from that time, and things be kept which thou knowest not; 
now those be made of nought, and not from that time, and before the day, and thou heardest not those things; lest peradventure thou say, Lo! I knew those things. 
Neither thou heardest, neither thou knewest, neither thine ear was opened from that time; for I know, that thou trespassing shalt trespass, and I called thee a trespasser from the womb. 
For my name I shall make far my strong vengeance, and with my praising I shall refrain or bridle thee, lest thou perish. 
Lo! I have sodden thee, but not as silver; I chose thee in the chimney of poverty. 
I shall do for me, that I be not blasphemed, and I shall not give my glory to another. 
Jacob and Israel, whom I call, hear thou me; I myself, I am the first, and I am the last. 
And mine hand founded the earth, and my right hand meted or measured heavens; I shall call them, and they shall stand together. 
All ye be gathered together, and hear; who of them told out these things? The Lord loved him, he shall do his will in Babylon, and his arm in Chaldees. 
I, I spake, and called him; I brought him, and his way was addressed. 
Nigh ye to me, and hear ye these things; at the beginning I spake not in huddles, either private; from time, before that things were made, I was there, and now the Lord God, and his Spirit, sent me. 
The Lord, thine again-buyer, the Holy of Israel, saith these things, I am thy Lord God, teaching thee profitable things, and I govern thee in the way, wherein thou goest. 
I would that thou haddest perceived my commandments, thy peace had been made as a flood, and thy rightfulness or rightwiseness as the swells of the sea; 
and thy seed had been as gravel, and the generation of thy womb, as the little stones thereof; the name of it had not perished, and had not been all-broken from my face. 
Go ye out of Babylon, flee ye from Chaldees; tell ye in the voice of full out joying; make ye this heard, and bear ye it unto the last parts of the earth; say ye, The Lord again-bought his servant Jacob. 
They thirsted not in the desert, when he led them out; he brought forth to them water of a stone, and he parted the stone, and waters flowed. 
Peace is not to wicked men, saith the Lord. 
