JOSHUA.
Chapter 13.
Joshua was eld or old and of great age; and the Lord said to him, Thou hast waxed eld, and art of long time; and the most large land is left, that is not yet parted by lot; 
that is, all the terms of Philistines, and all Geshuri, 
from the troubled flood that moisteth Egypt, till to the terms of Ekron against the north; the land of Canaan, which is parted into five little kings of Philistines, of Gaza, and of Ashdod, of Ashkelon, of Gath, and of Ekron. Forsooth at the south be Avites, 
all the land of Canaan, and Mearah of Sidonians, till to Aphek, and to the terms of Amorites, 
and the coasts of him; and the country of Lebanon against the east, from Baalgad, under the hill of Hermon, till thou enterest into Hamath, 
of all men that dwelled in the hill, from the Lebanon till to the waters of Misrephothmaim, and all men of Sidon; I am, that shall do away them from the face of the sons of Israel; therefore come it into the part of heritage of Israel, as I commanded to thee. 
And thou now part the land into possession to the nine lineages, and to the half lineage of Manasseh, 
with which lineage Reuben, and Gad, wielded the land, which land Moses, the servant of the Lord, gave to them beyond the flowings of Jordan, at the east coast; 
from Aroer, that is set in the brink of the strand or stream of Arnon, in the midst of the valley, and all the field places of Medeba, unto Dibon, 
and all the cities of Sihon, king of Amorites, that reigned in Heshbon, till to the terms of the sons of Ammon, 
and of Gilead, and to the terms of Geshurites, and of Maachathites, and all the hill of Hermon, and all Bashan, till to Salcah; 
all the realm of Og in Bashan, that reigned in Ashtaroth, and in Edrei; he was of the relics of Rephaim, that is, of giants; and Moses smote them, and did away them. 
And the sons of Israel would not destroy Geshurites, and Maachathites; and they dwelled in the midst of Israel, till into the present day. 
Soothly he gave not possession to the lineage of Levi, but the sacrifices, and the slain sacrifices of the Lord God of Israel; that is his heritage, as God spake to him. 
Therefore Moses gave possession to the lineage of the sons of Reuben, by their kindreds; 
and their term was from Aroer, that is in the brink of the strand or stream of Arnon, and in the middle valley of the same strand or stream, all the plain also that leadeth to Medeba, 
and to Heshbon, and all the towns of them, that be in the field places; and Dibon, and Bamothbaal, and the city of Bethbaalmeon, 
and Jahaza, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath, 
and Kiriathaim, and Sibmah, and Zarethshahar in the hill of the valley 
of Bethpeor, and of Ashdothpisgah, and Bethjeshimoth; 
all the field cities, and all the realms of Sihon, king of Amorites, that reigned in Heshbon, whom Moses smote, with his princes Midian, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the dukes of Sihon, dwellers of the land. 
And the sons of Israel killed by sword, Balaam, the false diviner, the son of Beor, with other men slain there. 
And the term of the sons of Reuben was made the flood of Jordan; this is the possession of men of Reuben, by their kindreds, of cities and towns. 
And Moses gave a possession to the lineage of Gad, and to his sons, by their kindreds, of the which possession this is the parting; 
he gave the terms of Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and the half part of the land of the sons of Ammon, unto Aroer that is against Rabbah; 
and from Heshbon unto Ramath of Mizpeh, and Betonim, and Mahanaim, unto the terms of Debir; 
and in the valley he gave to them Betharam, and Bethnimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, that was the tother part of the realm of Sihon, the king of Heshbon; and the end of that term is Jordan, unto the last part of the sea of Chinnereth over Jordan, at the east coast. 
This is the possession of the sons of Gad, by their meines, the cities and the towns of them. 
Moses gave also possession to the half lineage of Manasseh, and to his sons, by their kindreds, of which possession this is the beginning; 
he gave Mahanaim, and all Bashan, and all the realms of Og, king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, that be in Bashan, sixty cities; 
and half the part of Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, the cities of the realm of Og, king of Bashan; he gave to the sons of Machir, the sons of Manasseh, and to half the part of the sons of Machir, by their kindreds. 
Moses parted this possession in the field places of Moab over Jordan, against Jericho, at the east coast. 
Forsooth Moses gave no possession to the lineage of Levi; for the Lord God himself of Israel is the pos-session of the kindred of Levi, as the Lord said to him. 
