DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 3.
And so we turned, and went up by the way of Bashan; and Og, the king of Bashan, went out against us with his people, to fight in Edrei. 
And the Lord said to me, Dread thou not him, for he is betaken into thine hand, with all his people, and his land; and thou shalt do to him, as thou didest to Sihon, king of Amorites, that dwelled in Heshbon. 
Therefore our Lord God betook in our hands also Og, the king of Bashan, and all his people; and we have smitten him unto death, 
and we wasted all his cities in one time; no town there was of his that escaped us; we destroyed sixty cities, all the country of Argob, of the realm of Og in Bashan. 
All the cities were strengthened with most high walls, and with gates and bars; without towns unnumberable, that had no walls. 
And we did away those men, as we did to Sihon, king of Heshbon; and we destroyed each city of that land, and the men, and the women, and little children; 
and we took by prey beasts, and spoils of the cities. 
And we took in that time the land from the hand of the two kings of Amorites, that were beyond Jordan, from the strand or stream of Arnon unto the hill of Hermon, 
which hill Sidonians call Sirion, and Amorites call Shenir. 
And we took all the cities that were set in the plain, and all the land of Gilead, and of Bashan, unto Salchah and Edrei, cities of the realm of Og, in Bashan. 
For Og alone, king of Bashan, was left of the generation of giants; and his iron bed is showed, which is in Rabbath, of the sons of Ammon, and it hath nine cubits of length, and four cubits of breadth, at the measure of a cubit of a man’s hand. 
And we wielded in that time the land, from Aroer, which is on the brink of the strand or stream of Arnon, unto the half part of the hill of Gilead; and I gave his cities to Reuben and to Gad. 
And I gave the tother part of Gilead, and all Bashan, of the realm of Og, to the half lineage of Manasseh, and all the country of Argob. All Bashan was called the land of giants. 
Jair, the son of Manasseh, wielded all the country of Argob, unto the land of Geshuri and of Maachathi; and he called by his name Bashanhavothjair, that is, the towns of Jair, till into this present day. 
Also I gave Gilead to Machir; 
and to the lineages of Reuben and of Gad I gave the land of Gilead, till to the strand or stream of Arnon, the middle of the strand, and of the ends till to the strand of Jabbok, which is the term of the sons of Ammon. 
And I gave to them the plain of the wilderness, unto Jordan, and the terms of Chinnereth unto the sea of desert, the which is the most salty sea, at the roots of the hill of Pisgah, against the east. 
And I commanded to you in that time, and said, Your Lord God giveth to you this land into heritage; all ye strong men, 
without wives, and little children, and beasts, be ye made ready, and go ye before your brethren, the sons of Israel. For I know that ye have many beasts, and those shall dwell in the cities that I have given to you, 
till the Lord give rest to your brethren, as he hath given to you, and till they also wield the land which the Lord shall give to them beyond Jordan; then each man shall turn again into his possession that I have given to you. 
Also I commanded to Joshua in that time, and said, Thine eyes have seen what things your Lord God did to these two kings; so he shall do to all the realms, to which thou shalt go; 
dread thou not them; the Lord our God shall fight for us. 
And I prayed the Lord in that time, and said, 
Lord God, thou hast begun to show to me thy servant thy greatness, and thy full strong hand, for none other God there is, either in heaven, either in earth, that may do thy works, and may be comparisoned to thy strength. 
Therefore I shall pass over, and shall see this best land beyond Jordan, and this noble hill, and Lebanon. 
And the Lord was wroth to me for you, neither he heard me, but he said to me, It sufficeth to thee; speak thou no more of this thing to me. 
Go thou up into the highness of Pisgah, and cast about thine eyes to the west, and north, and south, and east, and behold, for thou shalt not pass over this Jordan. 
Command thou to Joshua, and strengthen thou him, and comfort him; for he shall go before this people, and he shall part to them the land, which thou shalt see. 
And we dwelled in the valley against the temple of Bethpeor. 
