LEVITICUS.
Chapter 22.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to Aaron and to his sons, that they beware of these things of the sons of Israel, which things be hallowed, or offered; and that they defoul not the name of the things hallowed to me, which they offer; I am the Lord. 
Say thou to them, and to the after-comers of them, Each man of your kindred, that nigheth to those things that be hallowed, and which things the sons of Israel offered to the Lord, in whom is uncleanness, he shall perish before the Lord; I am the Lord. 
A man of the seed of Aaron that is leprous, either suffereth flowing out of seed, shall not eat of these things, that be hallowed to me, till he be healed. He that toucheth any unclean thing on a dead body, and from whom the seed as of lechery goeth out, 
and that toucheth a creeping beast, and whatever unclean thing, whose touching is foul, 
he shall be unclean till to eventide, and he shall not eat these things that be hallowed to me; but when he hath washed his flesh in water, 
and the sun hath gone down, then he shall be cleansed, and shall eat hallowed things, for it is his meat. 
He shall not eat a thing dead by itself, and taken of a beast, neither he shall be defouled in those things; I am the Lord. 
They shall keep my behests, that they be not subject to sin, and die in the saintuary, when they have defouled it; I am the Lord that hallow you. 
Each alien shall not eat of things hallowed; the hind that is a stranger, and the hired man of the priest, shall not eat of those things. 
Soothly these servants, that the priest hath bought, and he that is a born servant of his house, shall eat of those things. 
If the priest’s daughter is wedded to any man of the people, she shall not eat of these things that be hallowed, and of the first fruits; 
soothly if she is a widow, either forsaken, and turneth again without free children to her father’s house, she shall be sustained by the meats of her father, as a damsel was wont; each alien hath not power to eat of those things. 
He that eateth by ignorance of hallowed things, shall add to the fifth part with that that he ate, and he shall give it to the priest in the saintuary, 
and they shall not defoul the hallowed things of the sons of Israel, which they offer to the Lord, 
lest peradventure they suffer the wickedness of their trespass, when they have eaten the hallowed things; I am the Lord that hallow them. 
The Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, A man of the house of Israel, and of the comelings that dwell with them, that offereth his offering to the Lord, and either payeth avows or vows, either offereth by his free will, whatever thing he offereth into burnt sacrifice of the Lord, 
that it be offered by you, it shall be a male without wem, of oxen, and of sheep, and of goats; 
if it hath a wem, ye shall not offer it, neither it shall be acceptable. 
A man that offereth a sacrifice of peaceable things to the Lord, and either payeth avows or vows, either offereth by free will, as well of oxen as of sheep, he shall offer a beast without wem, that it be acceptable; no wem shall be therein. 
If it is blind, if it is broken, if it hath a wound or a scar, if it hath whelks, either scab, either dry scab, ye shall not offer those beasts to the Lord, neither ye shall burn of those beasts upon the altar of the Lord. 
A man may offer willfully a sheep and an ox superfluous and diminished, that is, having a member superfluous, either failing a member; but a vow may not be paid of these beasts. 
Ye shall not offer to the Lord any beast, whose privy members be broken, either bruised, either cut, and taken away, and utterly ye shall not do these things in your land. 
Of the hand of an alien ye shall not offer loaves to your God, and whatever other thing he will give, for all things be corrupt and defouled; ye shall not receive those or them. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
When an ox, sheep, and goat be brought forth of the mother’s womb, in seven days those or they shall be under the teat of their mother; soothly in the eighth day, and from thenceforth, those or they may be offered to the Lord, 
whether that is a cow, whether a sheep; those or they shall not be offered in one day with their fruits. 
If ye offer to the Lord a sacrifice for the doing of thankings, that it may be pleasant or be pleasable, 
ye shall eat it in the same day in which it is offered; anything thereof shall not leave into the morrowtide of the tother day; I am the Lord. 
Keep ye my behests, and do ye those or them; I am the Lord. 
Defoul ye not mine holy name, that I be hallowed in the midst of the sons of Israel; I am the Lord, that hallow you, 
and led you out of the land of Egypt, that I should be to you into God; I am the Lord. 
