2ND SAMUEL.
Chapter 9.
And David said, Whether any man is, that is left of the house of Saul, that I do mercy with him for Jonathan? 
And there was a servant, Ziba by name, of the house of Saul; whom when the king had called to himself, the king said to him, Whether thou art not Ziba? And he answered, I am thy servant. 
And the king said, Whether any man liveth of the house of Saul, that I do with him the mercy of God? And Ziba said to the king, A son of Jonathan liveth, feeble in the feet. 
And the king said, Where is he? And Ziba said to the king, Lo! he is in the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, in Lodebar. 
Therefore king David sent, and took Jonathan’s son from the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, from Lodebar. 
And when Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, had come to David, he felled into his face, and worshipped. And David said, Mephibosheth! And he answered, I am present, thy servant. 
And David said to him, Dread thou not, for I doing shall do mercy to thee for Jonathan, thy father; and I shall restore to thee all the fields of Saul, thy father, and thou shalt eat bread in my table evermore. 
Which worshipped him, and said, Who am I, thy servant, for thou hast beheld on a dead dog like me? 
Therefore the king called Ziba, the child of Saul; and said to him, I have given to the son of thy lord all things, whichever were of Saul, and all the house of him; 
therefore work thou the land to him, thou, and thy sons, and thy servants, and thou shalt bring in meats to the son of thy lord, that he be fed; but Mephibosheth, the son of thy lord, shall eat ever bread on my board. And fifteen sons and twenty servants were to Ziba. 
And Ziba said to the king, As thou, my lord the king, hast commanded to thy servant, so thy servant shall do; and Mephibosheth, as one of the sons of the king, shall eat on thy board. 
And Mephibosheth had a little son, Micha by name; and all the family of the house of Ziba served Mephibosheth. 
And Mephibosheth dwelled in Jerusalem; for he ate continually of the king’s board, and was crooked, or halt, on either foot. 
