ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 50.
Simon, the son of Onias, was a great priest, which in his life under-setted the house, and in his days strengthened the temple. 
Also the highness of the temple was builded of him, that is, repaired, the double building, and high walls of the temple. Also the height of the temple of him is founded, the double building, and the high walls of the temple. 
In the days of him the pits of waters came forth; and as the sea, those or they were filled above measure. 
Which Simon healed his folk, and delivered it from perdition. Which was mighty to alarge the city; That cured or cared for his folk, and delivered it from perdition. That had the mastery to make large the city; 
which got glory in the conversa-tion of folk; and alarged the entering of the house, and of the large compass about. that gat glory into the living of folk; and the in-coming of the house, and of the porch he made large. 
As the day or the morrowtide star in the midst of a cloud, and as a full moon shineth in his days; 
and as the sun shining, so he shined in the temple of God; as a rainbow shining among the clouds of glory, 
and as a flower of roses in the days of ver or spring, and as lilies, that be in the passing or goings of water, and as incense smelling in the days of summer; 
as fire shining, and incense burn-ing in fire; as a firm vessel of gold, adorned with each or all manner of precious stone; 
as an olive tree springing forth or burgeoning, and a cypress tree raising itself on high or into heights; 
while he took the stole of glory, and was clothed in the perfection of virtue. In the ascending or going up of the holy altar, the clothing or amice of holiness gave glory. 
Forsooth in taking parts of the hands of priests, that is, the tithe of tithes, which the priests took of the people, and he stood beside the altar. The crown of brethren, as a planting of a cedar in the hill Lebanon, was about him; so they stood about him as boughs of palm trees, 
and all the sons of Aaron stood in their glory. Soothly the offering of the Lord was in the hands of them, before all the synagogue or all the gather-ing of Israel; 
and he used full ending on the altar, to alarge or make large the offering of the high King. 
And he dressed or straightened or stretched out his hand in moist or liquid sacrifice; and sacrificed in the blood of grape. He shedded or poured out in the foundament of the altar, the odour of God to the high Prince. 
Then the sons of Aaron cried aloud or cried out; they sounded in trumps beaten out with hammers, and made a great voice heard into mind before God. 
Then all the people hasted together, and fell down on the face on the earth, for to worship their Lord God or the Lord their God, and to give prayers to Almighty God on high. 
And men singing in their voices alarged, that is, praised God largely; and a sound full of sweetness was made in the great house. 
And the people prayed the high Lord in prayer, till that the honour of the Lord was done perfectly, and they performed their gift, or his service. 
Then Simon came down, and raised or put out his hands into all the congregation of the sons of Israel, to give glory to God by his lips, and to have glory in the name of him. 
And he rehearsed his prayer, willing to show the virtue of God. 
And he prayed more the Lord of all, that made great things in each land or in all the earth; which increased our days from the womb of our mother, and did with us by or after his mercy. 
Give he gladness of heart to us, and that peace be made in Israel by everlasting days; Give he to us in-ward joy of heart, and to be made peace in our days in Israel by ever-lasting days; 
that Israel believe, that God’s mercy is with us, that he deliver them in their days. 
My soul hateth two folks; but the third is not a folk, whom I hate. 
They that sit in the hill of Samaria, and the Philistines, and the fond or foolish people, that dwelleth in Shechem. 
Jesus, the son of Sirach, a man of Jerusalem, wrote in this book the teaching or doctrine of wisdom, and of knowing; and he renewed wisdom of his heart. 
He is blessed, that dwelleth or abideth in these goods; he that setteth or putteth those things in his heart, shall evermore be wise. 
For if he doeth these things, he shall be mighty to all things; for why the light of God is the step of him. 
