PSALMS.
Chapter 106.
Alleluia. Acknowledge ye to the Lord, for he is good; for his mercy is without end. 
Who shall speak of the powers of the Lord; shall make known all his praisings? 
Blessed be they that keep doom; and do rightfulness or rightwiseness in all time. 
Lord, have thou mind on us, in the good pleasance of thy people; visit thou us in thine health. 
To see in the goodness of thy chosen men, to be glad in the gladness of thy folk; that thou be praised with thine heritage. 
We have sinned with our fathers; we have done unjustly, we have done wickedness. 
Our fathers in Egypt understood not thy marvels; they were not mindful of the multitude of thy mercy. And they going into the sea, into the Red Sea, stirred him to wrath; 
and he saved them for his name, that he should make known his power. 
And he parted the Red Sea, and it was dried; and he led forth them in the depths of waters, as in desert. 
And he saved them from the hand of haters; and he again-bought them from the hand of the enemy. 
And the waters covered men troubling them; one of them abode not. 
And they believed to his words; and they praised the praising of him. 
They had soon done, they forgat his works; and they abided not his counsel. 
And they coveted covetousness in desert; and tempted God in a place without water. 
And he gave to them the asking of them; and he sent fullness into the souls of them. 
And they wrathed Moses in the castles or tents; Aaron, the holy man of the Lord. 
The earth was opened, and swal-lowed down Dathan; and covered on the congregation of Abiram. 
And fire burnt on high in the synagogue of them; flame burnt the sinners. 
And they made a calf in Horeb; and worshipped a molten image. 
And they exchanged their glory; into the likeness of a calf eating hay. 
They forgat God, that saved them, that did great works in Egypt, 
marvels in the land of Ham; fearedful things in the Red Sea. 
And God said, that he would lose them; and he would have, if Moses, his chosen man, had not stood in the breaking of his sight. That he should turn away his ire; lest he lost them. 
And they had the desirable land for nought, for they believed not to his word, 
and they grutched in their taber-nacles; they heard not the voice of the Lord. 
And he raised his hand on them; to cast down them in desert. 
And to cast away their seed in nations; and to lose them in countries. 
And they made sacrifice to Baal-peor; and they ate the sacrifices of dead beasts. 
And they wrathed God in their findings; and falling, either death, was multiplied in them. 
And Phinehas stood, and pleased God; and the vengeance ceased. 
And it was areckoned to him to rightfulness or rightwiseness; in gen-eration and into generation, till into without end. 
And they wrathed God at the waters of against-saying; and Moses was travailed for them, that is, troubled in soul, 
for they made bitter his spirit, and he parted or ordained in his lips. 
They lost not the heathen men; which the Lord said to them to do. 
And they were meddled or mingled among heathen men, and learned the works of them; 
and served the graven images of them; and it was made to them into cause of stumbling. 
And they offered their sons, and their daughters, to fiends. 
And they shedded out innocent blood, the blood of their sons and of their daughters; which they sacrificed to the graven images of Canaan. And the earth was slain in bloods, 
and was defouled in the works of them; and they did fornication in their findings. 
And the Lord was wroth by strong vengeance against his people; and he had abomination of his heritage. 
And he betook them into the hands of heathen men; and they that hated them, were lords of them. 
And their enemies did tribulation to them, and they were meeked under the hands of enemies; 
oft he delivered them. But they wrathed him in their counsel; and they were made low in their wicked-nesses. 
And he saw, when they were set in tribulation; and he heard the prayer of them. 
And he was mindful of his testa-ment; and it repented him by the multitude of his mercy. 
And he gave them into mercies; in the sight of all men, that had taken them. 
Our Lord God, make thou us safe; and gather together us from nations. That we acknowledge to thine holy name; and have glory in thy praising. 
Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from the world and till into the world; and all the people shall say, Be it done, be it done. 
