GENESIS.
Chapter 47.
Therefore Joseph entered, and told to Pharaoh, and said, My father and brethren, the sheep and the great beasts of them, and all things that they wield, have come from the land of Canaan; and lo! they stand in the land of Goshen. 
And Joseph ordained five, the least, or meekest, men of his brethren, to come before the king, 
whom he asked, What work have ye? They answered, We thy servants be keepers of sheep, both we and our fathers; 
we came into thy land to be pilgrims, that is, to dwell for a time, for no grass is to the flocks of thy servants; for hunger waxeth grievous in the land of Canaan, and we ask that thou command us thy servants to be in the land of Goshen. 
And so the king said to Joseph, Thy father and thy brethren have come to thee; 
the land of Egypt is in thy sight; make thou them to dwell in the best place, and give thou to them the land of Goshen; that if thou knowest that witting men be in them, ordain them masters of my beasts. 
After these things Joseph brought in his father to the king, and set him before the king, and he blessed the king; 
and he was asked of the king, How many be the days of the years of thy life? 
And he answered, The days of the pilgrimage of my life be few and evil, of an hundred and thirty years, and those or they have not come to the days of my fathers, in which they were pilgrims. 
And when Jacob had blessed the king again, he went out. 
Forsooth Joseph gave to his father and his brethren a possession in Egypt, in Rameses, the best soil of the earth, as Pharaoh commanded; 
and he fed them, and all the household of his father, and gave meats to them all. 
For bread failed in all the world, and hunger oppressed the land, mostly of Egypt and of Canaan; 
of which lands Joseph gathered all the money for the selling of wheat, and brought it into the king’s treasury. 
And when price failed to the buyers, all Egypt came to Joseph, and said, Give thou loaves to us; why shall we die before thee, while money faileth? 
To whom he answered, Bring ye your beasts, and I shall give you meats for those or them, if ye have not price. 
And when they had brought those, he gave them meats for horses, and sheep, and oxen, and asses; and he sustained them in that year for the exchange of beasts. 
And they came in the second year, and said to him, We cover not from our lord, that the while money faileth, also our beasts failed altogether, neither it is hid from thee, that without bodies and land, we have nothing; 
why therefore shall we die, while thou seest this? both we and our land shall be thine; buy thou us into the king’s servage, and give thou us seeds to sow, lest while the tiller perisheth, the land be turned into wilderness. 
Therefore Joseph bought all the land of Egypt, while all men sold him their possessions, for the greatness of hunger; and he made it and all the peoples thereof subject to Pharaoh, 
from the last terms of Egypt till to the last ends thereof, 
except the land of priests, that was given of the king to them, to which priests also meats were given of the common barns, and therefore they were not compelled to sell their possessions. 
Therefore Joseph said to the peoples, Lo! as ye see, Pharaoh wieldeth both you and your land; now take ye seeds, and sow ye fields, 
that ye may have fruits; ye shall give the fifth part to the king; I suffer to you the four residue parts into seed, and into meats, to you, and to your free children. 
Which answered, Our health is in thine hands; only our God behold us, and we shall joyfully serve the king. 
From that time till to this present day, in all the land of Egypt, the fifth part is paid to the kings, and it is made as into a law, without the land of priests, that was free from this condition. 
Therefore Israel dwelled in Egypt, that is, in the land of Goshen, and wielded it; and he was increased, and multiplied full much. 
And he lived therein sixteen or seventeen years; and all the days of his life were made an hundred and seven and forty years. 
And when he saw the day of his death to nigh, he called his son Joseph to his bed, and said to him, If I have found grace in thy sight, put thine hand under mine hip, and swear that thou shalt do mercy and truth to me, that thou bury not me in Egypt; 
but I shall sleep with my fathers, and take thou away me from this land, and bury me in the sepulchre of my greaters. To whom Joseph answered, I shall do that that thou commandest. 
And Israel said, Therefore swear thou to me; and when Joseph swore, Israel turned to the head of the bed, and worshipped God. 
