EXODUS.
Chapter 39.
Forsooth of jacinth, and purple, vermilion, and bis, he made the clothes in which Aaron was clothed, when he ministered in the holy things, as the Lord commanded to Moses. 
Therefore he made the cloth on the shoulders or cape of gold, jacinth, and purple, and of red silk twice-dyed, and of bis folded again, by work of embroidery; 
also he cut thin golden plates, and made thin into threads, that those or they may be folded again, with the warp of the former colours; 
and he made twain or two hems coupled to themselves together, in ever either side of the ends; 
and he made a girdle of the same colours, as the Lord commanded to Moses. 
And he made ready two onyx stones, bound and enclosed in gold, and engraved by the craft of a worker in gems with the names of the sons of Israel; 
six names in one stone, and six in the tother stone, by the order of their birth. And he set those stones in the sides of the cloth on the shoulders or cape, into a memorial of the sons of Israel, as the Lord commanded to Moses. 
He made also the rational, by work of embroidery, by the work of the cloth on the shoulders or cape, of gold, jacinth, purple, and red silk twice-dyed, and of bis folded again; 
he made the rational four-cornered, double, of the measure of four fingers. 
And he set therein four orders of gems; in the first order was sardius, topaz, smaragdus; 
in the second order was car-buncle, sapphire, jasper; 
in the third order was ligure, agate, amethyst; 
in the fourth order was crystallite, onyx, and beryl; compassed and enclosed with gold, by their orders. 
And those twelve stones were engraved with the twelve names of the lineages of Israel, all the stones by themselves, by the names of all the lineages by themselves. 
They made also in the rational, little chains, cleaving to themselves together, of purest gold, 
and twain or two hooks, and so many rings of gold. 
Forsooth they setted the rings on ever either side of the rational, 
on which rings the two golden chains hanged, which they setted in the hooks, that stood forth in the corners of the cloth on the shoulders or cape. 
These accorded so to themselves, both before and behind, that the cloth on the shoulders or cape, and the rational, 
were knitted together, and fastened to the girdle, 
and coupled full strongly with the rings, which rings a lace of jacinth joined together, lest they were loosened, and slackened, and were moved each from other; as the Lord commanded to Moses. 
They made also a coat on the shoulders, or alb, all of jacinth; 
and the hood, or the amice, in the higher part, about the midst, and a woven hem, by the compass of the hood; 
forsooth beneath at the feet they made pineapples of jacinth, and purple, and vermilion, and bis folded again; 
and they made little bells of purest gold, which they setted betwixt the pomegranates, in the hem of the alb, by compass; 
a golden little bell, and a pine-apple; with which the bishop went adorned, when he was set in service, as the Lord commanded to Moses. 
They made also coats of bis, that is, linen clothes, by woven work, to Aaron and to his sons, 
and mitres with small crowns of bis, and linen clothes of bis; 
forsooth they made a girdle of bis folded again, of jacinth, purple, and vermilion, parted by craft of embroidery, as the Lord commanded to Moses. 
They made also a plate of holy worshipping, of purest gold, and they wrote therein by the craft of an engraver in gems, The Holy of the Lord. 
And they bound it with the mitre by a lace of jacinth, as the Lord commanded to Moses. 
Therefore all the work of the tabernacle, and the covering of the witnessing, was performed; and the sons of Israel did all things which the Lord commanded to Moses. 
And they offered the tabernacle, and the roof, and all the appurtenances, rings, boards, bars, and pillars, and the bases; 
the covering of skins of rams made red, and another covering of skins of jacinth; the veil, 
the ark, the bars, and the propitiatory; 
the board with vessels, and with the loaves of setting forth; 
the candlestick, lanterns, and the appurtenances of those, with the oil; 
the golden altar, and the ointment, and the incense of sweet smelling spiceries or spices; and the curtain in the entering of the tabernacle; 
the brazen altar, the griddle, bars, and all the vessels thereof; the great washing vessel, with his found-ament; 
the curtains of the great entry, and the pillars with their bases; the curtain in the entering of the great porch, and the cords, and the stakes thereof. Nothing of the vessels failed, that was commanded to be made into the service of the tabernacle, and into the roof of the bond of peace. 
Also the sons of Israel offered the clothes which the priests, that is, Aaron and his sons, use in the saintuary, 
as the Lord commanded. 
And after that Moses saw all those things fulfilled, he blessed them. 
