GENESIS.
Chapter 42.
Forsooth Jacob heard that foods were sold in Egypt, and he said to his sons, Why be ye negligent? 
I have heard that wheat is sold in Egypt; go ye down, and buy ye necessaries to us, that we may live, and be not wasted by neediness. 
Therefore ten brethren of Joseph went down to buy wheat in Egypt, 
and Benjamin was withholden of Jacob at home, that said to his brethren, Lest peradventure in the way he suffer any evil. 
Soothly they entered into the land of Egypt, with other men that went thither to buy corn; forsooth hunger was in the land of Canaan. 
And Joseph was the prince of Egypt, and at his will wheats were sold to the peoples. And when his brethren had worshipped or honoured him, 
and he had known them, he spake harder to them, as to aliens, and asked them, From whence came ye? Which answered, From the land of Canaan, that we buy necessaries to our lifelode. 
And nevertheless he knew his brethren, and he was not known of them, 
and he bethought on the dreams which he saw sometime. And he said to them, Ye be spyers or spies, ye came to see the feebler things of the land. 
Which said, Lord, it is not so, but thy servants came to buy meats; 
all we be the sons of one man, we came hither peaceably, and thy servants imagine not any evil. 
To which he answered, It is in other manner, ye came to see the feeble things of the land. 
And they said, We thy servants be twelve brethren, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; the youngest is with our father, another is not alive. 
This it is, he said, that I spake to you, ye be spyers or spies, 
right now I shall take experience or very knowing of you; by the health of Pharaoh ye shall not go from hence, till your least brother come hither; 
send ye one of you, that he bring him, forsooth ye shall be in bonds till those things that ye said be proved, whether those or they be false or true; else, by the health of Pharaoh, ye be spies. 
Therefore he betook them into keeping three days; 
soothly in the third day, when they were led out of prison, Joseph said, Do ye that that I said, and ye shall live, for I dread God; 
if ye be peaceable, one brother of you be bound in prison; forsooth the rest go ye, and bear the wheat, which ye have bought, into your houses, 
and bring ye your youngest brother to me, that I may prove your words, and ye die not. They did as he said, 
and they spake together, Worthily we suffer these things, for we sinned against our brother, and we saw the anguish of his soul, while he prayed us, and we heard him not; therefore this tribulation cometh on us. 
Of which one, Reuben, said, Whether I said not to you, Do not ye sin against the child, and ye heard not me? lo! his blood is sought. 
Soothly they knew not that Joseph understood them, for he spake to them by an interpreter or an expounder. 
And he turned away himself a little, and wept; and he turned again, and spake to them. And he took Simeon, and bound him, while they were present; 
and he commanded the servants, that they should fill their sacks with wheat, and that they should put all their money in their bags, and over this give to them meats in the way; which did so. 
And they bare the wheats on their asses, and went forth, 
and when the sack of one of them was opened that he should give meat to the work beast in the inn, he beheld the money in the mouth of the bag, 
and he said to his brethren, My money is yielded to me, lo! it is had in the bag; and they were astonied, and troubled, and said together, What thing is this that God hath done to us? 
And they came to Jacob, their father, in the land of Canaan, and told to him all things that befelled to them, and said, 
The lord of the land spake hard to us, and guessed that we were spyers or spies of the province; 
to whom we answered, We be peaceable, neither we purpose any treasons; 
we be twelve brethren, engendered of one father, one is not alive, the youngest dwelleth with the father in the land of Canaan. 
And he said to us, Thus I shall prove that ye be peaceable; leave ye one brother of you with me, and take ye meats needful to your houses, and go ye, 
and bring ye to me your youngest brother, that I know that ye be not spyers or spies, and that ye may receive this brother which is holden in bonds, and that from thenceforth ye have license to buy what things ye will. 
While these things were said, when they all poured out the wheats, they found the money bound in the mouths of their sacks. And when they altogether were afeared, 
their father Jacob said, Ye have made me to be without children; Joseph is not alive, Simeon is holden in bonds, ye shall take away from me Benjamin; all these evils have fallen in on me. 
To whom Reuben answered, Slay thou my two sons, if I shall not bring him again to thee; take thou him in mine hand, and I shall restore him to thee. 
And Jacob said, My son shall not go down with you; his brother is dead, he alone is left; if any adversity shall befall to him in the land to which ye shall go, ye shall lead forth mine hoar hairs with sorrow to hell. 
