ISAIAH.
Chapter 52.
Rise thou, Zion, rise thou, be thou clothed in thy strength; Jerusalem, the city of the Holy, be thou clothed in the clothes of thy glory; for a man uncircumcised and a man unclean shall no more lay to, that he pass by thee. 
Jerusalem, be thou shaken out of the dust; rise thou, sit thou; thou daughter of Zion, prisoner, unbind the bonds of thy neck. 
For the Lord saith these things, Ye be sold without cause, and ye shall be again-bought without silver. 
For the Lord God saith these things, My people in the beginning went down into Egypt, that it should be there an earth-tiller, either a comeling, and Assur falsely challenged it without any cause. 
And now what is to me here? saith the Lord; for my people is taken away without cause; the lords thereof do wickedly, saith the Lord, and my name is blasphemed continually all day. 
For this thing my people shall know my name in that day, for lo! I myself that spake, am present. 
Full fair be the feet of him that telleth, and preacheth peace on hills or mountains, of him that telleth good tidings, of him that preacheth health, and saith, Zion, thy God shall reign. 
The voice of thy beholders; they raised the voice, they shall praise together; for they shall see with eye to eye, when the Lord hath converted Zion. 
The deserted, either forsaken, things of Jerusalem, make ye joy, and praise ye together; for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath again-bought Jerusalem. 
The Lord hath made ready his holy arm in the eyes of all folks, and all the ends of the earth shall see the health of our God. 
Go ye away, go ye away, go ye out from thence; do not ye touch the defouled thing, go ye out from the midst thereof; be ye cleansed, that bear the vessels of the Lord. 
For ye shall not go out in noise, neither ye shall haste in flying away; for why the Lord shall go before you, and the God of Israel shall gather you together. 
Lo! my servant shall understand, and he shall be enhanced, and he shall be raised, and he shall be full high. 
As many men wondered on him, so his beholding shall be without glory among men, and the form, either shape, of him among the sons of men. 
He shall besprinkle many folks; kings shall hold together their mouth on him; for they shall see, to which it was not told of him, and they that heard not, beheld. 
