ISAIAH.
Chapter 53.
Who believed to our hearing? and to whom is the arm of the Lord showed? 
And he shall go up as a rod before him, and as a root from the thirsty land. And neither shape neither fairness was to him; and we saw him, and no beholding was; and we desired him, 
despised, and the last of men, a man of sorrows, and knowing sickness. And his cheer was as hid, and despised; wherefore and we areckoned not him. 
Verily he suffered our sicknesses, and he bare our sorrows; and we areckoned him as a mesel, and smitten of God, and made low. 
Forsooth he was wounded for our wickednesses, he was defouled for our great trespasses; the learning of our peace was on him, and we be made whole by his wanness. 
All we erred as sheep, each man bowed into his own way, and the Lord putted or put in him the wickedness of us all. 
He was offered, for he would, and he opened not his mouth; as a sheep he shall be led to slaying, and he shall be dumb as a lamb before him that clippeth it, and he shall not open his mouth. 
He is taken away from anguish and from doom; who shall tell out the generation of him? For he was cut down from the land of livers. I smote him for the great trespass of my people. 
And he shall give unfaithful men for burying, and rich men for his death; for he did not wickedness, neither guile was in his mouth; 
and the Lord would defoul him in sickness. If he putteth his life for sin, he shall see his seed long enduring, and the will of the Lord shall be addressed in his hand. 
For that that his soul travailed, he shall see, and shall be filled, or For-thy that he travailed, his soul shall see, and be fulfilled. That my just or rightwise servant shall justify many men in his knowing, and he shall bear the wickednesses of them. 
Therefore I shall yield, either deal, to him full many men, and he shall part the spoils of the strong fiends; for that that he gave his life into death, and was areckoned with felonious men; and he did away the sin of many men, and he prayed for trespassers. 
