EXODUS.
Chapter 20.
And the Lord spake all these words, 
I am thy Lord God, that led thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of servage. 
Thou shalt not have alien gods before me. 
Thou shalt not make to thee a graven image, neither any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, and that is in earth beneath, neither of those things that be in waters under the earth; 
thou shalt not bow down to them, neither worship them; for I am thy Lord God, a strongly jealous lover; I visit the wickedness of fathers in children into the third and fourth generation of them that hated me, 
and I do mercy into thousands, to them that love me, and keep my behests. 
Thou shalt not take in vain the name of thy Lord God, for the Lord shall not have him guiltless, that taketh in vain the name of his Lord God. 
Have thou mind, that thou hallow the sabbath day; 
in six days thou shalt work, and do all thy works; 
forsooth in the seventh day is the sabbath of thy Lord God; thou shalt not do any work on that day, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thine handmaid, thy work beast, and the comeling that is within thy gates; 
for in six days God made heaven and earth, the sea, and all things that be in those or them, and rested in the seventh day; therefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it. 
Honour thy father and thy mother, that thou be long living on the land, which thy Lord God shall give to thee. 
Thou shalt not slay. 
Thou shalt not do lechery. 
Thou shalt not do theft. 
Thou shalt not speak false witness-ing or false witness against thy neigh-bour. 
Thou shalt not covet the house of thy neighbour, neither thou shalt desire his wife, nor his servant, nor his handmaid, nor his ox, nor his ass, neither all things that be his. 
Forsooth all the people heard voices, that is, the thunder, and saw lamps, that is, shining lights, and the sound of a clarion, and the hill smoking; and they were afeared, and shaken with inward dread, and stood afar, 
and said to Moses, Speak thou to us, and we shall hear; the Lord speak not to us, lest peradventure we die. 
And Moses said to the people, Do not ye dread, for God came to prove you, and that his dread should be in you, and that ye should not do sin. 
And the people stood afar; and Moses nighed to the darkness, wherein God was. 
And the Lord said furthermore to Moses, Thou shalt say these things to the sons of Israel, Ye saw that from heaven I have spoken to you; 
ye shall not make gods of silver, neither ye shall make to you gods of gold. 
Ye shall make an altar of earth to me, and ye shall offer thereon your burnt sacrifices, and peaceable sacrifices, your sheep, and oxen; in each place in which the mind of my name shall be, I shall come to thee, and I shall bless thee. 
That if thou shalt make an altar of stone to me, thou shalt not build it of stones hewn; for if thou shalt raise thy knife thereupon, or other instrument wherewith blood may be shed out, it shall be polluted. 
Thou shalt not go up by degrees to mine altar, lest thy filthhood be showed. 
