JOB.
Chapter 40.
And the Lord added to, and spake to Job, and said, 
Whether he, that striveth with God, shall have rest so lightly? Soothly he, that reproveth God, oweth for to answer to him. 
And Job answered to the Lord, and said, 
What may I answer, which have spoken lightly, that is, undiscreetly and follily? I shall put mine hand upon my mouth. 
I spake one thing, which thing I would, that I had not said; and I spake another thing, to which I shall no more add. 
Forsooth the Lord answered to Job from the whirlwind, and said, 
Gird thou as a man thy loins, and I shall ask thee, and show thou to me. 
Whether thou shalt make void my doom, and shalt thou condemn me, that thou be made just or be justified? 
And if thou hast an arm, or power, as God hath, and if thou thunderest with like voice, 
take thou fairness about thee, and be thou raised on high, and be thou glorious, and be thou clothed in fair clothes. 
And destroy thou proud men in thy fierce vengeance, and behold thou, and make low each boaster. 
Behold thou all proud men, and shame thou them; and all-break thou wicked men in their place. 
Hide thou them in dust together, and drown down their faces into a ditch. 
And then I shall acknowledge, that thy right hand may save thee. 
Lo! behemoth, whom I made with thee, shall as an ox eat hay. 
His strength is in his loins, and his might is in the navel of his womb. 
He constraineth his tail as a cedar; the sinews of his stones of engendering be folded together. 
His bones be as pipes of brass; the gristle of him is as plates of iron. 
He is the beginning of the ways of God; he, that made him, shall set his sword to him. 
Hills bear herbs to this behemoth; all the beasts of the field play there. 
He sleepeth under shadow, in the private of a reed, in moist places. 
Shadows cover his shadow; the sallows of the river encompass him. 
He shall swallow up the flood, and he shall not wonder; he hath trust, that Jordan shall flow into his mouth. 
He shall take them by his eyes, as by an hook; and by sharp shafts he shall pierce his nostrils. 
