1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 29.
And king David spake to all the church, God hath chosen Solomon, my son, yet a child and tender; forsooth the work is great, and a dwelling is not made ready to man, but to God. 
Soothly I in all my mights have made ready the costs of the house of my God; gold to golden vessels, silver to silveren vessels, brass to brazen vessels, iron to iron vessels, and tree to treen vessels, onyx stones, and stones as of the colour of women’s ointment, and each precious stone of diverse colours, and marble of diverse colours, most plenteously. 
And over these things, I give gold and silver into the temple of my God, which I have offered of my proper chattel or mine own treasure into the house of my God, besides these things which I have made ready into the holy house, 
three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand of talents of silver most proved, to overgild the walls of the temple; 
and for the works which be made by the hands of craftsmen, wherever gold is needful, of gold, and wherever silver is needful, of silver; and if any man offereth by his free will, full-fill he his hand today, and offer he that that he will to the Lord. 
Therefore the princes of the meines, and the dukes of the lineages of Israel, and the tribunes, and the centurions, and the princes of the possessions of the king, promised to give thereto or to give gifts to the temple; 
and they gave into the works of the house of the Lord, five thousand talents of gold, and ten thousand shillings; and ten thousand talents of silver, and eighteen thousand talents of brass, and an hundred thousand talents of iron. 
And at whomever precious stones were found, they gave into the treasure or the treasury of the house of the Lord, by the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite. 
And the people was glad, when they promised avows or vows by their free will, for with all the heart they offered those or them to the Lord. But also king David was glad with great joy, 
and he blessed the Lord before all the multitude, and said, Lord God of Israel, our father, thou art blessed from without beginning and into without end; 
Lord, worthy doing is thine, that is, thy doing is worthy and great, and power, and glory, and victory, and praising is to thee; for all things that be in heaven and in earth be thine; Lord, the realm is thine, and thou art over all princes; 
riches be thine, and glory is thine; thou art Lord of all; in thine hand is strength, and power, and in thine hand is greatness, and lordship of all. 
Now therefore, our God, we ac-knowledge to thee, and we praise thy noble name. 
Who am I, and who is my people, that we may promise all these things to thee? All things be thine, and we have given to thee those things, which we have taken of thine hand. 
For we be pilgrims and comelings before thee, as all our fathers were; our days be as shadow on the earth, and there is no tarrying. 
Our Lord God, all this plenty of diverse goods which we have made ready, that an house should be builded to thine holy name, is of thine hand; and all things be thine. 
My God, I know, that thou provest hearts, and that thou lovest simpleness, that is, lowness, or meekness, of heart; wherefore in the simpleness of mine heart, I have offered gladly all these things; and I have seen with great joy thy people, which is found here, to offer gifts to thee. 
Lord God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keep thou without end this will of their hearts; and this mind dwell evermore into the worshipping of thee. 
Also give thou to Solomon, my son, a perfect heart, that he keep thy behests, and thy witnessings, and thy ceremonies; and do all these things, and that he build the house, whose costs I have made ready. 
Soothly David commanded to all the church, that is, all the people gathered together, Bless ye the Lord our God. And all the church, that is, the people, blessed the Lord God of their fathers, and they bowed them-selves, and worshipped God, and then afterward honoured the king. 
And they offered slain sacrifices to the Lord, and they offered burnt sacrifices in the day pursuing or following; a thousand bulls, and a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, with their flowing or liquor sacrifices, and with all the custom, most plente-ously, into all Israel. 
And they ate and drank before the Lord in that day, with great glad-ness. And they anointed the second time Solomon, the son of David; and they anointed him into prince to the Lord, and Zadok into bishop. 
And Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord into king, for David, his father; and it pleased all men, and all Israel obeyed to him. 
But also all the princes, and mighty men, and all the sons of king David, gave hand, that is, swearing or steadfastly promising to be faithful, and were subject to Solomon the king. 
Therefore the Lord magnified, or made great, Solomon upon all Israel, and gave to him glory of the realm, what manner glory no king of Israel had before him. 
And David, the son of Jesse, reigned upon all Israel; 
and the days in which he reigned upon Israel were forty years; in Hebron he reigned seven years, and in Jerusalem he reigned three and thirty years. 
And he died in a good eld age, and was full of days, and riches, and glory; and Solomon, his son, reigned for him. 
Forsooth the former and the last deeds of king David, be written in the book of Samuel, the prophet, and in the book of Nathan, the prophet, and in the book of Gad, the prophet; 
and of all his realm, and strength, and times, that passed under him, either in Israel, either in all realms of lands. 
