NEHEMIAH.
Chapter 11.
Forsooth the princes of the people dwelled in Jerusalem; but the residue people sent lot, for to take one part of ten, which should dwell in Jerusalem, in the holy city; and the other nine parts dwelled in other cities. 
And the people blessed all men, that proffered themselves by free will to dwell in Jerusalem. 
And so these be the princes of the province, that dwelled in Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah; and each man dwelled in his possession, in their cities of Israel, that is, priests, deacons or Levites, Nethinims, and the sons of the servants of Solomon. 
And men of the sons of Judah, and of the sons of Benjamin dwelled in Jerusalem; of the sons of Judah; Athaiah, the son of Uzziah, son of Zechariah, son of Amariah, son of Shephatiah, son of Mahalaleel, of the sons of Perez; 
Maaseiah, the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of Shilonites; 
all the sons of Perez, that dwelled in Jerusalem, were four hundred eight and sixty, strong men. 
And these be the sons of Benjamin; Sallu, the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jesaiah; 
and after him Gabbai, Sallai, ninety and eight and twenty; 
and Joel, the son of Zichri, was the sovereign of them, and Judah, the son of Senuah, was the second man on the city. 
And of priests; Jedaiah, the son of Joiarib, Jachin, 
Seraiah, the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, these were princes of the house of God, 
and their brethren, making the works of the temple, were eight hundred and two and twenty. And Adaiah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashur, the son of Malchiah, 
and the brethren of them, the princes of fathers, were two hundred and two and forty. And Amashai, the son of Azareel, the son of Ahasai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer, 
and their brethren, full mighty men, were an hundred and eight and twenty; and the sovereign of them was Zabdiel, the son of mighty men. 
And of deacons or Levites; Shemaiah, the son of Hashub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni; 
and Shabbethai, and Jozabad was ordained of the princes of deacons or Levites, upon all the works that were done withoutforth in God’s house. 
And Mattaniah, the son of Micha, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, was prince in God’s house, to praise and acknowledge to him in prayer; and Bakbukiah was the second of his brethren, and Abda, the son of Sham-mua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun. 
All the deacons or Levites in the holy city, were two hundred fourscore and four. 
And the porters, Akkub, Talmon, and the brethren of them, that kept the doors of the temple, were an hundred and two and seventy. 
And other men of Israel, priests, and deacons or Levites, in all the cities of Judah, each man in his possession. 
And the Nethinims, that dwelled in Ophel; and Ziha and Gishpa of the Nethinims. 
And sovereign of deacons or Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi, the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micha. Of the sons of Asaph, singers in the service of God’s house. 
For the command of the king was on them, and an order was in singers by all days; 
and Pethahiah, the son of Meshe-zabeel, of the sons of Zerah, the son of Judah, in the hand of the king, by each word of the people; 
and in the houses by all the countries of them. Of the sons of Judah dwelled in Kiriatharba, and in the villages thereof, and in Dibon, and in the villages thereof, and in Jekabzeel, and in the towns thereof; 
and in Jeshua, and in Moladah, and in Bethphelet, 
and in Hazarshual, and in Beer-sheba, and in the villages thereof; 
and in Ziklag, and in Mekonah, and in the villages thereof; 
and in Enrimmon, and in Zareah, and in Jarmuth, 
in Zanoah, in Adullam, and in the towns thereof; in Lachish, and in the country thereof; in Azekah, and in the villages thereof; and they dwelled in Beersheba till to the valley of Hinnom. 
And the sons of Benjamin dwelled in Geba, Michmash, and Aija, and Bethel, and in the villages thereof; 
in Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah, 
Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim, 
Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat, 
Lod, and in Ono, the valley of craftsmen. 
And of the deacons or Levites, the portions of Judah and of Benjamin. 
