DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 14.
Be ye the sons of your Lord God; ye shall not cut yourselves, neither ye shall make baldness, upon a dead man, 
for thou art an holy people to thy Lord God, and he chose thee that thou be to him into a special people, of all the folks that be upon earth. 
Eat ye not those things that be unclean. 
This is a beast which ye shall eat; an ox, and a sheep, and a goat, 
an hart, a capret, a wild ox, tragelaph, that is, a beast in part like a goat buck, and in part like an hart, a pygarg, an ostrich, a camelopard. 
Ye shall eat each beast that parteth the claw into two parts, and cheweth the cud. 
And ye shall not eat these beasts, of them that chew the cud, and part not the claw; a camel, an hare, and a coney; for these chew the cud, and part not the claw, they shall be unclean to you; 
also a swine, for it parteth the claw, and cheweth not the cud, shall be unclean; ye shall not eat the flesh of them, and ye shall not touch their dead bodies. 
Ye shall eat these things, of all that dwell in waters; eat ye those things that have fins and scales; 
eat ye not those things that be without fins and scales, for those be unclean. 
Eat ye all clean birds; 
eat ye not unclean birds, that is, an eagle, and a gripe, and an aliet, 
an heron, and a vulture, and a kite by his kind, 
and all thing of ravens’ kind, 
and a struthio, and a night crow, and a lari, and an hawk by his kind, 
a falcon, and a swan, and a ciconia, 
and a dipper, a porphyrio, and a rearmouse, a cormorant, 
and a calidris, all in their kind; also a lapwing and a bat. 
And all thing that creepeth, and hath fins, shall be unclean, and shall not be eaten. 
Eat ye all thing that is clean; 
but whatever thing is dead by itself, eat ye not thereof. Give thou meat to the pilgrim that is within thy gates, that he eat, either sell thou meat to him, for thou art an holy people of thy Lord God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother’s milk. 
Thou shalt separate the tenth part of all thy fruits that come forth in the land by each year; 
and thou shalt eat in the sight of thy Lord God, in the place which he choose, that his name be called therein; thou shalt offer the tithe of thy wheat, of wine, and oil, and the first engendered things of thy droves, and of thy sheep, that thou learn to dread thy Lord God in all time. 
But when the way is longer, and the place that thy Lord God choose is far, and he hath blessed, or increased, thee, and thou mayest not bring all these things to that place, 
thou shalt sell all these things, and shalt turn them into price, and thou shalt bear them in thine hand, and thou shalt go to the place which thy Lord God choose; 
and thou shalt buy of the same money whatever thing pleaseth to thee, either of droves, either of sheep; also thou shalt buy wine, and cider, and all things that thy soul desireth; and thou shalt eat before thy Lord God, and thou shalt make feast, thou, and thine house, 
and the deacon or Levite that is within thy gates; be thou ware lest thou forsake him, for he hath not other part in thy possession. 
In the third year thou shalt separate another tithe of all things that grow to thee in that year, and thou shalt keep it within thy gates. 
And the deacon or Levite shall come, that hath none other part nor possession with thee, and the pilgrim, and the fatherless, either motherless child, and the widow, that be within thy gates, and they shall eat, and be fulfilled, that thy Lord God bless thee, in all the works of thine hands which thou shalt do. 
