GALATIANS.
Chapter 2.
And since fourteen years after or Afterward after fourteen years, again I went up to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and took with me Titus. 
I went up by revelation, and spake with them the evangel or the gospel, which I preach among the heathen; and by themselves to these that seemed to be somewhat, lest I run or lest peradventure I should run, or had run in vain. 
And neither Titus, that had been with me, while he was heathen, was compelled to be circumcised; 
but for false brethren that were brought in, which had privily entered to espy our freedom or our liberty, which we have in Jesus Christ, to bring or to drive us into servage. 
But we gave no place to subjection, that the truth of the gospel should dwell with you. 
But of these that seemed to be somewhat; which they were some-time, it pertaineth not to me, for God taketh not the person of man; for they that seemed to be somewhat, gave me nothing. 
But on the contrary, when they had seen, that the evangel of prepuce was given to me or that the gospel of heathen men is betaken to me, as the evangel of circumcision was given to Peter; 
for he that wrought to Peter in apostlehood of circumcision, wrought also to me among the heathen; 
and when they had known the grace of God, that was given to me, James, and Peter or Cephas, and John, which were seen to be the pillars, they gave the right hand of fellowship to me and to Barnabas, that we preach among the heathen, and they into the circumcision; 
only that we had mind of, or that we should be mindful of, poor men, the which thing I was full busy to do. 
But when Peter was come to Antioch, I against-stood him in the face, for he was worthy to be reproved. 
For before that there came some men from James or before that some came from James, he ate with heathen men; but when they were come, he withdrew, and departed him, dreading them that were of circumcision. 
And the other Jews assented or consented to his feigning, so that Barnabas was drawn of them into that feigning. 
But when I saw, that they walked not rightly to the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter or to Cephas before all men, If thou, that art a Jew, livest heathen-like, and not Jew-like, how constrainest thou heathen men to become Jews? 
We Jews of kind, and not sinful men of the heathen, 
know that a man is not justified of the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ; and we believe in Jesus Christ, that we be justified of or by the faith of Christ, and not of the works of the law. Wherefore of the works of the law each flesh shall not be justified. 
And if we seek to be justified in Christ, we ourselves be found sinful men or to be sinners, whether Christ be minister of sin? God forbid. 
And if I build again things that I have destroyed, I make myself a trespasser. 
For by the law I am dead to the law, For by the law I am dead to the law, that I live to God; 
and I am fixed to the cross, that I live to God with Christ. And now live not I, but Christ liveth in me. But that I live now in flesh, I live in the faith of God’s Son, that loved me, and gave himself for me. with Christ I am fixed to the cross. Forsooth I live now, not I, but Christ liveth in me. Forsooth that I live now in flesh, I live in the faith of God’s son, the which loved me, and betook himself for me. 
I cast not away the grace of God; for if rightwiseness be through or is by law, then Christ died without cause. 
