LEVITICUS.
Chapter 26.
ye shall not make to you an idol, and a graven image, neither ye shall raise up titles, that is, altars for idolatry, neither ye shall set or put a noble stone in your land, that ye worship or honour it; for I am your Lord God. 
Keep ye my sabbaths, and dread ye at my saintuary; I am the Lord. 
If ye go in my behests, and keep my commandments, and do those or them, 
I shall give to you rain in their times, and the earth shall bring forth his fruit, and the trees shall be filled with apples; 
the threshing of ripe corns shall take the vintage, and the vintage shall occupy the seed time, and ye shall eat your bread in fullness, and ye shall dwell in your land without dread. 
I shall give peace in your coasts; ye shall sleep, and none shall be that shall make you afeared; I shall do away evil beasts from you, and a sword shall not pass by your terms. 
Ye shall pursue your enemies, and they shall fall before you; 
five of your men shall pursue an hundred aliens, and an hundred of you shall pursue ten thousand; your enemies shall fall by sword in your sight. 
I shall behold you, and I shall make you to increase; ye shall be multiplied; and I shall make steadfast my covenant with you; 
ye shall eat the eldest or most old of eld or old things, and ye shall cast away the eld or old things, when the new things shall come above; 
I shall set my tabernacle in the midst of you, and my soul shall not cast you away; 
I shall go among you, and I shall be your God, and ye shall be a people to me. 
I am your Lord God, that led you out of the land of Egyptians, that ye should not serve them, and I have broken the chains off your nolls, that ye should go upright. 
That if ye hear not me, neither do all my behests, 
and if ye forsake my laws, and despise my dooms, that ye do not those things that be ordained of me, and that ye bring follily my covenant to nought, 
also I shall do these things to you; I shall visit you swiftly in neediness, and in burning, which shall torment your eyes, and waste your lives; in vain ye shall sow seed, that shall be devoured of enemies; 
I shall set my face against you, and ye shall fall before your enemies, and ye shall be subjects or be subject to them that hate you; ye shall flee, while no man pursueth you. 
But if neither so ye obey to me, I shall increase your chastising sevenfold for your sins; 
and I shall all-break the pride of your hardness, and I shall give to you heaven above as iron, and the earth as brass; 
your travail shall be wasted in vain, neither the earth shall bring forth fruit, neither the trees shall give apples. 
If ye go contrary to me, neither will hear me, I shall increase your wounds, either vengeances, till into sevenfold for your sins; 
I shall send out into you cruel beasts of the field, that shall waste you, and your beasts, and shall bring all things to fewness, and your ways shall be forsaken. 
That if neither so ye will receive doctrine, either chastising, but go contrary to me, 
also I shall go adversary against you, and I shall smite you seven times for your sins; 
and I shall bring in on you the sword, avenger of my bond of peace; and when ye flee into your cities, I shall send pestilence into the midst of you, and ye shall be betaken in the hands of your enemies, 
after that I have broken the staff of your bread, so that ten women shall bake their loaves in one oven, and yield, or deliver, those loaves at weight; and ye shall eat, and ye shall not be fulfilled. 
But if neither by these things ye will hear me, but go against me, 
and I shall go against you in contrary strong vengeance, and I shall chastise you by seven vengeances for your sins, 
so that ye eat the flesh of your sons, and of your daughters; 
I shall destroy your high things, and I shall break your simulacra; ye shall fall betwixt the fallings of your idols, and my soul shall have you abominable, 
in so much that I shall turn your cities into wilderness, and make your saintuaries forsaken, neither I shall receive more the sweetest odour; 
and I shall destroy your land, and your enemies shall be astonied thereon, when they shall be dwellers thereof; 
forsooth I shall scatter you into folks, or into heathen men, and I shall draw out of the sheath the sword after you, and your land shall be forsaken, and your cities shall be cast down. 
Then his sabbaths shall please the earth, in all the days of his wilderness; when ye be in the land of enemies, it shall keep sabbath, 
and it shall rest in the sabbaths of his wilderness, for it rested not in your sabbaths, when ye dwelled therein. 
And I shall give dread in their hearts, that shall abide of you, in the countries of your enemies; the sound of a leaf flying shall make them afeared, and so they shall flee it as a sword; they shall fall, while none pursueth, 
and all they shall fall upon their brethren, as men fleeing battles; no man of you shall be hardy to against-stand enemies; 
ye shall perish among heathen men, and the land of enemies shall waste you. 
That if some of these Jews dwell, they shall fail in their wickednesses, in the land of their enemies; and they shall be tormented for the sins of their fathers, and for their own sins, 
till they acknowledge their wicked-nesses, and have mind of their evils, by which they trespassed against me, and went contrary to me. 
Therefore and I shall go against them, and I shall bring them into the land of their enemies, till the uncir-cumcised soul of them be ashamed; then they shall pray for their wicked-ness, 
and I shall have mind of my bond of peace, that I covenanted with Jacob, Isaac, and with Abraham; also I shall be mindful of the land, 
which, when it is left of them, shall please to itself in his sabbaths, and shall suffer wilderness for them; forsooth they shall pray for their sins, for they casted away my dooms, and despised my laws; 
nevertheless, yea, when they were in the land of enemies, I casted not them away utterly, neither I despised them, so that they were wasted, and that I made void my covenant with them; for I am the Lord God of them. 
And I shall have mind of my former bond of peace, when I led them out of the land of Egypt, in the sight of heathen men, that I should be their God; I am the Lord God. 
These be the behests, and dooms, and laws, which the Lord gave betwixt himself and the sons of Israel, in the hill or mount of Sinai, by the hand of Moses. 
