NUMBERS.
Chapter 32.
Soothly the sons of Reuben and of Gad had many beasts, and cattle without number was to them, in work beasts. And when they had seen Jazer and Gilead, to be covenable lands to beasts to be fed, 
they came to Moses, and to Eleazar, the priest, and to the princes of the multitude, and said, 
Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah, Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Shebam, and Nebo, and Beon, 
the land which the Lord smote in the sight of the sons of Israel, is of most plenteous country to the pasture of beasts; and we thy servants have full many beasts; 
and we pray thee, if we have found grace before thee, that thou give to us thy servants that country into possession, and make not us to pass over Jordan. 
To whom Moses answered, Whether your brethren shall go to battle, and ye shall sit here? 
Why mis-turn ye the thoughts of the sons of Israel, that they dare not pass into the place, which the Lord shall give to them? 
Whether your fathers did not so, when I sent them from Kadeshbarnea to espy the land, 
and when they came to the valley of Cluster, when all the country was compassed, they turned into fear the heart of the sons of Israel, that they entered not into the coasts, which the Lord had given to them. 
And the Lord therefore was wroth, and he swore, saying, 
These men that went up from Egypt, from twenty years of age and above, shall not see the land which I promised under an oath to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and they would not pursue me, 
except Caleb, the Kenezite, the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua, the son of Nun; these twain fulfilled my will. 
And the Lord was wroth against Israel, and led him about the desert by forty years, till all the generation was wasted, that had done evil in the sight of the Lord. 
And Moses said, Lo! ye the increasings, and nourished children, of sinful men, have risen for your fathers, that ye should increase the strong vengeance of the Lord against Israel. 
That if ye will not pursue or follow the Lord, in the wilderness he shall forsake the people, and ye shall be the cause of the death of all men. 
And they went nigh, and said, We shall make sheepfolds, and stables of beasts, and we shall make strengthened cities to our little children. 
Forsooth we ourselves shall be armed to defense, and shall be girded with arms to assailing, and shall go to battle before the sons of Israel, till we bring them into their places; our little children, and whatever thing we may have, shall be in strengthened cities, for the treasons of the dwellers. 
We shall not turn again into our houses, till the sons of Israel wield their heritage; 
and we shall not ask anything over Jordan, for we have now our possession in the east coast thereof. 
To whom Moses said, If ye do that, that ye promise, be ye made ready, and go ye to battle before the Lord; 
and each fighting man be armed, and pass he over Jordan, till the Lord destroy his enemies, 
and all the land be made subject to him; then ye shall be made guilt-less with God, and with Israel, and ye shall wield the countries, which ye will or desire, before the Lord. 
But if ye do not that, that ye say, it is no doubt to any man, that not ye sin against God; and know ye, that your sin shall take you. 
Therefore build ye cities to your little children, and folds, and stables to your sheep, and to beasts; and ful fill ye that, that ye have promised. 
And the sons of Gad and of Reuben said to Moses, We be thy servants; we shall do that, that our lord commandeth. 
We shall leave our little children, and women, and our sheep, and beasts, in the cities of Gilead; 
forsooth all we thy servants shall go ready to battle, as thou, lord, speakest. 
Therefore Moses commanded to Eleazar, the priest, and to Joshua, the son of Nun, and to the princes of the meines, by the lineages of Israel, 
and he said to them, If the sons of Gad, and the sons of Reuben, go all armed with you over Jordan, to battle before the Lord, and the land be made subject to you, give ye to them Gilead into possession; 
but if they will not pass with you into the land of Canaan, take they then places to dwell among you. 
And the sons of Gad and the sons of Reuben answered, As the Lord hath spoken to his servants, so we shall do; 
we shall go armed before the Lord, into the land of Canaan, and we acknowledge, that we have taken now possession over Jordan. 
And so Moses gave to the sons of Gad, and of Reuben, and to half the lineage of Manasseh, the son of Joseph, the realm of Sihon, king of Amorites, and the realm of Og, king of Bashan, and their lands, with their cities, by compass. 
Therefore the sons of Gad builded Dibon, and Ataroth, and Aroer, 
and Atroth, Shophan, and Jaazer, and Jogbehah, 
and Bethnimrah, and Bethharan, strengthened cities; and folds to their beasts. 
Soothly the sons of Reuben builded Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Kiriathaim, 
and Nebo, and Baalmeon, when the names were turned, and they builded Shibmah; and they putted names to the cities, which they had builded. 
Soothly the sons of Machir, the son of Manasseh, went into Gilead, and destroyed it, and they killed Amorites, the dwellers thereof. 
Therefore Moses gave the land of Gilead to Machir, the son of Manasseh, the which Machir dwelled therein. 
Soothly Jair, the son of Manasseh, went, and occupied the towns thereof, which he called Havothjair, that is, the towns of Jair. 
Also Nobah went, and took Kenath, with his towns, and called it, by his name, Nobah. 
