PROVERBS.
Chapter 26.
As snow in summer, and rain in harvest; so glory is unseemly to a fool. 
For as a bird flying over to high things, and as a sparrow going into uncertain; so cursing brought forth without reasonable cause shall come above into some man. 
Beating be to an horse, and a bridle to an ass; and a rod to the back of unprudent men. 
Answer thou not to a fool after his folly, lest thou be made like him. 
Answer thou a fool after his folly, lest he seem to himself to be wise. 
An halting man in feet, and drinking wickedness, he that sendeth words by a fond or foolish messenger. 
As an halting man hath fair legs in vain; so a parable is unseemly in the mouth of fools. 
As he that sendeth a stone into the broad place of the sling; so he that giveth honour to an unwise man. 
As if a thorn groweth in the hand of a drunken man; so is a parable in the mouth of fools. 
Doom determineth causes; and he that setteth silence to a fool, assuageth ires or wraths. 
As a dog that turneth again to his spewing or As an hound that turneth again to his vomit; so is an unprudent man, that rehearseth his folly. 
Thou hast seen a man seem wise to himself; an unknowing man shall have hope more than he. 
A slow man saith, A lion is in the way, a lioness is in the footpaths. 
As a door is turned in his hinges; so a slow man in his bed. 
A slow man hideth his hands under his armpit; and he travaileth, if he turneth them up to his mouth. 
A slow man seemeth wiser to himself, than seven men speaking sentences. 
As he that taketh a dog by the ears; so he that passeth, and is unpatient, and is meddled or mingled with the chiding of another man. 
As he is guilty, that sendeth spears and arrows into death, 
so a man that annoyeth guilefully his friend, and when he is taken, he shall say, I did playing. 
When trees or woods shall fail, the fire shall be quenched; and when a privy backbiter is withdrawn, strives rest. 
As dead coals at or to quick coals, and trees at the fire or wood to fire; so a wrathful man raiseth chidings. 
The words of a privy backbiter be as simple; and those or they come till to the innerest things of the heart. 
As if thou wouldest adorn a vessel of earth with the dross of silver, so be swelling lips fellowshipped with a full wicked heart. 
An enemy is understood by his lips, when he treateth guiles in his heart. 
When he maketh low his voice, believe thou not to him; for seven wickednesses be in his heart. 
The malice of him that covereth hatred guilefully, shall be showed in a council. 
He that delveth a ditch, shall fall into it; and if a man walloweth a stone, it shall turn again to him. 
A false tongue loveth not the truth; and a slippery mouth worketh fallings. 
