LEVITICUS.
Chapter 23.
And the Lord spake to Moses and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, These be the fairs, that is, holidays or holy days, of the Lord, which ye shall call holy. 
Six days ye shall do work, the seventh day shall be called holy, for it is the rest of the sabbath; ye shall not do any work therein; it is the sabbath of the Lord in all your dwelling places. 
These be the holy fairs, either solemnities, of the Lord, which ye ought to hallow in their times. 
In the first month, in the fourteenth day of the month, at eventide, is the pask of the Lord; 
and in the fifteenth day of this month is the solemnity of therf loaves of the Lord; seven days ye shall eat therf loaves; 
the first day shall be most solemn and holy to you; ye shall not do any servile work therein, 
but ye shall offer sacrifice in fire to the Lord seven days; soothly the seventh day shall be more solemn and holier, and ye shall not do any servile work therein. 
And the Lord spake to Moses and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, When ye have entered into the land which I shall give to you, and have reaped the corn, ye shall bear handfuls of ears of corn, the first fruits of your ripe corn, to the priest; 
and the priest shall raise up a bundle before the Lord, that it be acceptable for you, in the tother day of the sabbath, that is, of pask; and the priest shall hallow that bundle; 
and the same day, wherein the handful is hallowed, a lamb of one year without wem shall be slain into burnt sacrifice of the Lord; 
and the flowing offerings shall be offered therewith, two tenth parts of tried wheat flour sprinkled altogether with oil, into incense of the Lord, and sweetest odour, and the flowing offerings of wine, the fourth part of hin. 
Ye shall not eat a loaf, neither cake, nor pottage of the corn, till to the day in which ye shall offer thereof to your God; it is a behest everlasting in your generations, and in all your dwelling places. 
Therefore ye shall number from the tother day of the sabbath, in which ye offered handfuls of the first fruits, seven full weeks, 
till to the tother day of filling of the seventh week, that is, fifty days; and so ye shall offer a new sacrifice to the Lord, 
of all your dwelling places, two loaves of the first fruits, of two tenth parts of tried flour, dighted with sour-dough, which loaves ye shall bake into the first fruits to the Lord. 
And ye shall offer with the loaves seven lambs of one year without wem, and one calf of the drove, and two rams; and these shall be in burnt sacrifice, with their flowing offerings, into the sweetest odour to the Lord. 
Ye shall make also a goat buck for sin, and two lambs of one year, the sacrifices of peaceable things. 
And when the priest hath raised those or them, with the loaves of the first fruits, before the Lord, those or they shall fall into the priest’s use. 
And ye shall call this day most solemn, and most holy; ye shall not do therein any servile work; it shall be a lawful thing everlasting in all your dwellings, and generations. 
Forsooth after that ye have reaped the corn of your land, ye shall not cut it till to the ground, neither ye shall gather the ears of corn that abide, but ye shall leave those or them to poor men and pilgrims; I am the Lord your God. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, In the seventh month, in the first day of the month, shall be a sabbath, a memorial to you, sounding with trumps, and it shall be called holy; 
ye shall not do any servile work therein, and ye shall offer burnt sacrifice to the Lord. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
In the tenth day of this seventh month, the day of cleansings or purging shall be most solemn, and it shall be called holy; and ye shall torment your souls to God, and ye shall offer burnt sacrifice to the Lord; 
ye shall not do any work in the time of this day, for it is the day of cleansing, that your Lord God be merciful to you. 
Each man which is not tormented in this day, shall perish from his peoples, 
and I shall do away from his people that man that doeth anything of work in that day; 
therefore ye shall not do anything of work in that day; it shall be a lawful thing everlasting to you in all your generations and dwellings; 
it is the sabbath of resting. Ye shall therein torment your souls from the ninth day of the month; from the eventide till to eventide ye shall hallow your sabbaths. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, From the fifteenth day of this seventh month shall be the fairs of tabernacles, in seven days to the Lord; 
the first day shall be called most solemn and most holy, ye shall not do any servile work therein; 
and seven days ye shall offer burnt sacrifices to the Lord, and the eighth day shall be most solemn and most holy; and ye shall offer burnt sacrifice to the Lord, for it is the day of company, and of gathering; ye shall not do any servile work therein. 
These be the fairs of the Lord, which ye shall call most solemn and most holy; and in them ye shall offer offerings to the Lord, burnt sacrifices, and flowing offerings, by the custom of each day, 
besides the sabbaths of the Lord, and your gifts, and that that ye offer by avows, either that that ye give by free will to the Lord. 
Therefore from the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered all the fruits of your land, ye shall hallow the fairs of the Lord seven days; in the first day and the eighth day shall be sabbath, that is, rest. 
And ye shall take to you in the first day fruits of the fairest tree, and the branches of palm trees, and the branches of a thick-boughed tree, and sallows of the running stream, and ye shall be glad before your Lord God; 
and ye shall hallow his solemnity seven days in the year; it shall be a lawful thing everlasting in your generations. In the seventh month ye shall hallow the feast days, 
and ye shall dwell in shadowing places seven days; each man that is of the kin of Israel, shall dwell in tabernacles, 
that your after-comers learn, that I made the sons of Israel to dwell in tabernacles, when I led them out of the land of Egypt; I am your Lord God. 
And Moses spake of the solemnities of the Lord to the sons of Israel. 
