PROVERBS.
Chapter 25.
Also these be the Parables of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah, king of Judah, translated. 
The glory of God is to cover a word; and the glory of kings is to seek out a word. 
Heaven above, and the earth beneath, and the heart of kings is unsearchable. 
Do thou away rust from silver, and a full clean vessel shall go out. 
Do thou away unpiety from the cheer of the king, and his throne shall be made steadfast by rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
Appear thou not glorious before the king, and stand thou not in the place of great men. 
For it is better, that it be said to thee, Ascend thou or Go up hither, than that thou be made low before the prince. 
Bring thou not forth soon those things in strife, which thine eyes saw; lest afterward thou mayest not amend, when thou hast made thy friend unhonest or he hath shamed thee. 
Treat thy cause with thy friend, and show thou not private matter to a strange man; 
lest peradventure he have joy of thy fall, when he hath heard, and cease not to do shame to thee. 
A golden pomme or pommel in beds of silver is he, that speaketh a word in his time. 
A golden earring, and a shining pearl is he, that reproveth a wise man, and an ear obeying. 
As the cold of snow in the day of harvest, so a faithful messenger to him that sent him, maketh his soul to have rest. 
A cloud and wind, and rain not pursuing or following, is a glorious man, and not ful filling promises. 
A prince shall be made soft by patience; and a soft tongue shall break hardness. 
Thou hast found honey, eat thou that that sufficeth to thee; lest per-adventure thou be full-filled, and spew it out. 
Withdraw thy foot from the house of thy neighbour; lest sometime he be filled, that is, annoyed, and hate thee. 
A dart, and a sword, and a sharp arrow, is a man that speaketh false witnessing against his neighbour. 
A rotten tooth, and a faint foot is he, that hopeth on an unfaithful man in the day of anguish, 
and loseth his mantle in the day of cold. Vinegar in a vessel of salt is he, that singeth songs to the worst heart. As a moth annoyeth or harmeth a cloth, and a worm a tree, so the sorrow of a man annoyeth the heart. 
If thine enemy hungereth, feed thou him; if he thirsteth, give thou him water to drink; 
for thou shalt gather together coals on his head; and the Lord shall yield to thee. 
The north wind scattereth abroad rains; and a sorrowful face destroyeth a tongue backbiting. 
It is better to sit in the corner of an house without a roof, than with a woman full of chiding, and in a common house. 
Cold water to a thirsty man; and a good messenger from a far land. 
A well disturbed with foot, and a vein broken, is a just or rightwise man falling before a wicked man. 
As it is not good to him that eateth much honey; so he that is a searcher of majesty, shall be put down from glory. 
As a city open, and without compass of walls; so is a man that may not refrain his spirit in speaking. 
