2ND MACCABEES.
Chapter 15.
Forsooth as Nicanor found that Judas was in the place of Samaria, he thought for to join battle in the day of sabbath with all fierceness. 
Forsooth when Jews, that pursued him by need, said, Do thou not so fiercely and heathenly, but give thou honour to the day of hallowing, and worship thou him, that beholdeth all things. 
And he unblessed, asked, If there is a Mighty in heaven, that commanded the day of sabbaths for to be done? 
And when they answered, There is a quick Lord or There is one Lord, and he is mighty in heaven, that commanded the seventh day for to be done. 
And he said, And I am mighty on earth, which command arms for to be taken, and needs of the king for to be fulfilled. Nevertheless he got not, for to perform counsel. 
And soothly Nicanor was enhanced with sovereign or masterful pride, and thought for to ordain a common victory of Judas. 
Forsooth Maccabeus trusted ever-more with all hope, that help should come to him of the Lord, 
and he admonished his, that they should not inwardly dread at the coming to of nations, but should have in mind the helps done to them of heaven, and now should hope that the victory should come to them of the Almighty. 
And he spake to them of the law, and prophets, and admonished of battles which they did before, and ordained, or confirmed, them readier. 
And so when the souls of them were raised, he showed altogether the falseness of heathen men, and breaking of oaths. 
Forsooth he armed each of them, not by strengthening of shield and shaft, but with best words and admonishings, and expounded a sweven worthy of believe, by which he gladded all. 
Soothly the vision was such. Judas saw Onias, that was highest priest, a good man and benign, shamefast in sight, and mild in manners, and fair in speech, and which was exercised in virtues from a child, holding forth the hands for to pray for all the people of Jews. 
After this thing, that also another man appeared, wonderful in age and glory, and in having of great fairness about him. 
Forsooth he saw Onias answering for to have said, This is the lover of brethren, and of the people of Israel; this is he, that much prayeth for the people, and for all the holy city, Jeremy, the prophet of God. 
Forsooth he saw that Jeremy hath stretched forth the right hand, and hath given a golden sword to Judas, and said, 
Take thou the holy sword, a gift of God, in which thou shalt cast down the adversaries of my people Israel. 
Therefore they were admonished with full great words of Judas, of which fierceness might be enhanced, and souls of young men be comforted, and they ordained for to fight, and torment altogether strongly, that virtue should deem of needs, or causes, for that the holy city, and temple were in peril. 
For why or Soothly for wives, and sons, and also for brethren, and cousins, was less busyness, but the most and first dread was for holiness of the temple. 
But not least busyness had them that were in the city, for these that should assail, or fight, together. 
And when now all men hoped doom to be, and enemies come or came, and the host was ordained, beasts and horsemen put together in covenable places, 
Maccabeus beheld the coming of multitude, and diverse apparel of arms, and fierceness of beasts, and he stretched out the hands to heaven, and called to help the Lord doing great wonders, which not by or after power of arms, but as it pleaseth to him, giveth victory to worthy men. 
Forsooth he said, calling to help in this manner, Thou Lord, that sentest thine angel under Hezekiah, king of Judea, and hast slain of the tents, either hosts, of Sennacherib, an hundred thousand fourscore and five thousand or an hundred fourscore and five thousand; 
and now, lordshipper of heavens, send thou thy good angel before us, in dread and trembling of greatness of thine arm, 
that they dread, that come with blasphemy against thine holy people. And soothly thus he perfectly prayed. 
Forsooth Nicanor, and they that were with him, moved to with trumps and songs. 
Judas forsooth, and they that were with him, called God to help by prayers of acknowledging, and went together. 
Soothly they fighting with hands, but praying God in hearts, casted down five and thirty thousand, not less, and delighted greatly by presence of God. 
And when they had ceased, and with joy turned again, they knew that Nicanor had fallen, with his armours. 
Therefore when cry was made, and perturbation was stirred, by country voice they blessed the Lord Almighty. 
Forsooth Judas, that by all things in body and soul was ready for to die for citizens, bade or commanded, that the head of Nicanor, and hand with the shoulder girded off, should be brought forth to Jerusalem. 
Whither when he fully came, when men of his lineage were called together, and priests to the altar, he called also them that were in the high tower. 
And when the head of Nicanor was showed, and the cursed hand, which he holding forth against the holy house of Almighty God greatly gloried, 
also he commanded the tongue of unpious Nicanor cut off, for to be given to birds gobbet-meal; forsooth he commanded the hand of the mad man for to be hanged up against the temple. 
Therefore all blessed the Lord of heaven, and said, Blessed be the Lord, that kept his place undefouled. 
Forsooth he hanged up Nicanor’s head in the highest tower, that it were evident, or known, and open sign of the help of God. 
Therefore all men, by common counsel, deemed in no manner for to pass this day without solemnity, but for to have solemnity or worshipping in the thirteenth day of the month Adar, that is said, by voice of Syria, the first day of Mordecai. 
Therefore when these things were done against Nicanor, and of those times when the city was wielded of Hebrews, also I in these things shall make an end of words. 
And soothly if well, and as it accordeth to the story, this thing and I will; if else less worthily, it is to forgive or to be granted to me. 
Soothly as for to drink evermore wine, either evermore water, it is contrary, but for to use changeable, either now one, now another, is delightable; so to men reading, if the word be evermore sought to each part, it shall not be covenable, or pleasing; therefore here it shall be ended. Here endeth the second book of Maccabees, which is end of the Old Testament, or Here endeth the story of Maccabees, the which is the last book of the Old Testament; see now the New Testament. 
