1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 16.
Therefore they brought the ark of God, and setted or set it in the midst of the tabernacle, that David had arrayed thereto; and they offered burnt sacrifices and peaceable sacrifices before the Lord. 
And when David offering burnt sacrifices and peaceable sacrifices had fulfilled, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord; 
and he parted to all, to each by himself, from man to woman, one cake or a cake of bread, and a part of roasted flesh of a bugle, and flour fried in oil. 
And he ordained before the ark of the Lord, of the Levites, that is, deacons, that should minister, that is, serve, and have mind of the works of the Lord, and glorify and praise the Lord God of Israel; 
Asaph the prince, and Zechariah his second; forsooth Jeiel, and Shemi-ramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, on the organs of the psaltery, and on the harps; but he ordained Asaph to sound with cymbals; 
and he ordained Benaiah and Jahaziel, priests, before the ark of the bond of peace of the Lord, for to trump continually. 
In that day, David made Asaph prince, and his brethren, for to acknowledge to the Lord. 
Acknowledge ye to the Lord, and inwardly call ye his name; make ye his findings known among peoples. 
Sing ye to him, and say ye psalm to him, and tell ye all his marvels. 
Praise ye his holy name; the heart of men seeking the Lord be glad. 
Seek ye the Lord and his strength; seek ye evermore his face. 
Have ye mind of his marvels that he hath done; of his signs, and of the dooms of his mouth. 
The seed of Israel, his servant, praise thou God; the sons of Jacob, his chosen, praise ye God. 
He is the Lord our God; his dooms be in each land. 
Have ye mind without end of his covenant; of the word which he covenanted into a thousand gener-ations. 
Which word he covenanted with Abraham; and of his oath to Isaac. 
And he ordained that word to Jacob into a commandment; and to Israel into everlasting covenant. 
And he said, To thee I shall give the land of Canaan; the part of your heritage. 
When they were few in number; little, and pilgrims thereof. 
And they passed from folk into folk; and from a realm to another people. 
He suffered not any man to falsely challenge them; but he blamed kings for them. 
And he said, Do not ye touch my christs, that is, patriarchs anointed with the anointing of grace; and do not ye do wickedly against my prophets. 
All the earth, sing ye to the Lord; tell ye from day into day his health. 
Tell ye among heathen men his glory; his marvels among all peoples. 
For the Lord is great, and worthy to be praised full much; and he is horrible, that is, fearful, over all gods. 
For all the gods of peoples be idols; but the Lord made heavens. 
Acknowledging and great doing be before him; strength and joy be in the place of him. 
Ye meines of peoples, bring ye to the Lord; bring ye to the Lord glory and empire. 
Give ye the glory to his name, raise ye up sacrifice, and come ye in his sight; and worship ye the Lord in holy fairness. 
All earth be moved from his face; for he hath founded the world unmoveable. 
Heavens be glad, and the earth make full out joy; and say they among nations, The Lord reign. 
The sea thunder, and his fullness; the fields fully joy they, and all things that be in those or them. 
Then the trees of the forest shall praise before the Lord; for he cometh to deem the earth. 
Acknowledge to the Lord, for he is good; for his mercy is without end. 
And say ye, Thou God, our saviour, save us, and gather us together, and deliver us from heathen men; that we acknowledge to thine holy name, and be fully glad in thy songs. 
Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from without beginning and into with-out end; and all the people say, Amen, and say praising to God. 
Therefore David left there, before the ark of the bond of peace of the Lord, Asaph and his brethren, for to minister in the sight of or before the ark, continually, by all days and their whiles. 
And David ordained as porters, Obededom and his brethren, eight and sixty; and Obededom, the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah. 
And he ordained Zadok priest, and his brethren, priests, before the tabernacle of the Lord, in the high place that was in Gibeon, 
for to offer burnt sacrifices to the Lord upon the altar of burnt sacrifice continually, in the morrowtide and eventide, by all things that be written in the law of the Lord, which he commanded to Israel. 
And after him David ordained Heman and Jeduthun, and the other chosen men, each man by his name, for to acknowledge to the Lord; for his mercy is without end. 
And he ordained Heman and Jeduthun, with trumping, and shaking cymbals, and all organs of musics, for to sing to God; forsooth he made the sons of Jeduthun to be porters. 
And all the people turned again into their house, and David turned again, to bless also his house. 
