1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 19.
Forsooth it befelled, that Nahash, the king of the sons of Ammon, died, and his son reigned for him. 
And David said, I shall do mercy with Hanun, the son of Nahash; for his father gave mercy to me. And David sent messengers, to comfort him on the death of his father. And when they were come into the land of the sons of Ammon, for to comfort Hanun, 
the princes of the sons of Ammon said to Hanun, In hap thou guessest, that David, for cause of honour into thy father, sent men, that should comfort thee; and thou perceivest not, that his servants be come to thee to espy, and inquire, and to seek through thy land. 
Therefore Hanun made bald and shaved the servants of David, and cutted the coats off them from the buttocks of them till to the feet; and let them go. 
And when they had gone forth, and had sent this to David, he sent into the meeting of them; for they had suffered great despite; and he com-manded, that they should dwell in Jericho, till their beards waxed, and then they should turn again. 
And the sons of Ammon saw, that they had done wrong to David, both Hanun and the other people, and they sent a thousand talents of silver, for to hire to them chariots and horse-men of Mesopotamia, and of Syria, of Maachah, and of Zobah; 
and they hired to them two and thirty thousand of chariots, and the king of Maachah with his people. And when they were come, they set their tents even against Medeba; and the sons of Ammon were gathered together from their cities, and came to battle. 
And when David heard this, he sent Joab, and all the host of strong men. 
And the sons of Ammon went out, and dressed battle array beside the gate of the city; but the kings, that were come to help them, stood asides half in the field. 
Therefore Joab understood, that the battle was made against him even against and behind his back, and he chose the strongest men of all Israel, and went against Syrians; 
soothly he gave the residue part of the people under the hand of Abishai, his brother; and they went forth against the sons of Ammon. 
And Joab said, If Syrians shall overcome me, thou shalt help me; and if the sons of Ammon shall over-come thee, I shall help thee; 
be thou comforted, and do we manly for our people, and for the cities of our God; and the Lord do that, that is good in his sight. 
Therefore Joab went forth, and the people that was with him, against Syrians to battle, and he drove them away. 
And the sons of Ammon saw, that Syrians had fled, and they also fled from Abishai, his brother, and entered into the city; and Joab turned again into Jerusalem. 
And Syrians saw, that he had fallen down before Israel, and he sent messengers, and brought forthto them Syrians, that was beyond the flood; and Shophach, the prince of the chivalry of Hadadezer, was the duke of them. 
And when this was told to David, he gathered all Israel, and passed over the Jordan; and he felled in on them, and dressed battle array even against them, fighting on the contrary. 
And Syrians fled from Israel, and David killed of the men of Syria seven thousand of chariots, that is, seven thousand men fighting in chariots, and forty thousand of footmen, and Shophach, the prince of the host of the army. 
And the servants of Hadadezer saw, that they were overcome of Israel, and they fled over to David, and served him; and Syria would no more give help to the sons of Ammon. 
