NUMBERS.
Chapter 28.
Also the Lord said to Moses, 
Command thou to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, Offer ye by their times mine offering, and loaves, and incense of sweetest odour. 
These be the sacrifices which ye owe to offer; two lambs of one year, without wem, each day, into ever-lasting burnt sacrifice. 
Ye shall offer one lamb early, and the tother at eventide. 
The tenth part of ephah of tried flour, that shall be sprinkled with purest oil, and have it the fourth part of hin. 
It is continual burnt sacrifice, which ye offered in the hill or mount of Sinai, into odour of sweetest incense to the Lord. 
And ye shall offer the fourth part of hin of wine, by each lamb, in the saintuary of the Lord. 
And ye shall offer in like manner the tother lamb at eventide, by all the custom of the morrow sacrifice, and of the moist or liquor sacrifices thereof, an offering of sweetest odour to the Lord. 
Soothly in the sabbath day ye shall offer two lambs of one year, without wem, and two tenth parts of tried flour sprinkled altogether with oil, in sacrifice, 
and the moist or liquor sacrifices that be poured by custom, by all sabbaths, into everlasting burnt sacrifice. 
Soothly in the calends, that is, in the beginnings of months, ye shall offer burnt sacrifice to the Lord, twain or two calves of the drove, one ram, seven lambs of one year, without wem, 
and three tenth parts of tried flour sprinkled altogether with oil, in the sacrifice, by each calf, and two tenth parts of tried flour sprinkled altogether with oil, by each ram; 
and the tenth part of the tenth of tried flour sprinkled altogether with oil, in the sacrifice, by each lamb; it is burnt sacrifice of sweetest odour, and of incense to the Lord. 
Soothly the moist or liquor sacrifices of wine, that shall be poured by all the slain sacrifices, shall be these; the half part of a hin by each calf, the third part by a ram, the fourth part by a lamb; this shall be the burnt sacrifices by each month, that come one after another while the year turneth about. 
Also a buck of goats shall be offered to the Lord for sins, into everlasting burnt sacrifice, with his moist or liquor offerings. 
Soothly in the first month, in the fourteenth day of the month, shall be pask, either passing over, of the Lord; 
and in the fifteenth day shall be the solemnity of therf loaves. By seven days ye shall eat therf loaves; 
of which the first day shall be worshipful and holy; ye shall not do any servile work therein. 
And ye shall offer burnt sacrifice to the Lord, two calves, one ram, seven lambs of one year, without wem; 
and the sacrifices of each by itself of tried flour, which be sprinkled altogether with oil, three tenth parts by each calf, and two tenth parts by a ram, 
and the tenth part of the tenth by each lamb, that is, by seven lambs. 
And ye shall offer one buck of goats for sin, that cleansing be made for you, 
besides the burnt sacrifice of the morrowtide, which ye shall offer ever-more. 
So ye shall do by each day of the seven days, into the nourishing of fire, and into the sweetest odour to the Lord, that shall rise of the burnt sacrifice, and of the moist or liquor sacrifices of each offering. 
Also the seventh day shall be most solemn and holy to you; ye shall not do any servile work therein. 
Also the day of the first fruits, when ye shall offer new fruits to the Lord, when the weeks shall be fulfilled, shall be worshipful and holy; ye shall not do any servile work therein. 
And ye shall offer burnt sacrifice to the Lord, into sweetest odour; two calves of the drove, one ram, and seven lambs of one year, without wem; 
and in the sacrifices of those or themye shall offer three tenth parts of tried flour sprinkled altogether with oil, by each calf, two tenth parts by the rams, 
the tenth part of the tenth by the lambs, which be altogether seven lambs. 
And ye shall offer a buck of goats, which is offered for cleansing, 
besides the burnt sacrifice ever-lasting, and the moist or liquor sacrifices thereof; ye shall offer all things without wem, with their moist or liquor sacrifices. 
