ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 1.
All wisdom is of the Lord God, and was ever with him, and is before the world. 
Who numbered the gravel of the sea, and the drops of rain, and the days of the world? 
Who measured the highness or height of heaven, and the breadth of earth, and the depth of the sea? Who ensearched the wisdom of God, that goeth before all things? 
Wisdom was formed first of all things, and the understanding of prudence, from the world, that is, from without beginning. 
The well of wisdom is the son of God in high things or the word of God in heights; and the entering of that wisdom is everlasting command-ments. 
To whom was the root of wisdom showed? and who knew the subtleties thereof? 
To whom was the lore or the discipline of wisdom showed, and made open? and who understood the multiplying of the entering thereof, that is, of the work thereof? 
One is the highest Creator or maker of nought of all things, almighty, and a mighty king, and worthy to be dreaded full much, sitting on the throne of that wisdom, and God having lordship. 
He formed it in the Holy Ghost, and he saw, and numbered, and he measured. And he shedded or poured out it on all his works, 
and on each flesh by or after his gift; he giveth it to them that love him. 
The dread of the Lord is glory, and glorying or joying, and glad-ness, and a crown of full out joying. 
The dread of the Lord shall delight the heart; and shall give gladness and joy into the length of days. 
To him that dreadeth God, it shall be well in the last things or days; and he shall be blessed in the day of his death. Forsooth they to whom wisdom appeareth in sight, that is, by revelation of prophecy, love it in sight, and in knowing of his great things The love of God is honourable wisdom. 
The beginning of wisdom is the dread of the Lord; and it is formed together in the womb with faithful men, and it goeth with chosen women, and it is known with just or right-wise men and faithful. 
The dread of the Lord is religi-osity of knowing. Religiosity shall keep, and shall justify the heart; and shall give mirth and joy. It shall be well to him that dreadeth God; and he shall be blessed in the days of his comfort or in the days of ending of him. 
The fullness of wisdom is for to dread God; and fullness is of the fruits thereof. 
It shall fill each gift or each house of him of generations, and receptacles of the treasures thereof. 
The crown of wisdom is the dread of the Lord, and filleth peace, and the fruit of health. And he saw, and numbered it; forsooth ever either be the gifts of God. 
Wisdom shall part the knowing and understanding of prudence; and it enhanceth the glory of them, that hold it. 
The root of wisdom is for to dread God; forsooth the branches thereof be long enduring or long living. Understanding and religiosity of knowing be in the treasures of wisdom; but wisdom is abomination to sinners. 
The dread of the Lord putteth away sin, for he that is without dread of God, may not be justified; 
for why the wrathfulness of his pride or willfulness is the destroying of him. 
A patient man shall suffer the dis-eases of a proud man till into time; and afterward there shall be yielding of mirth. 
Good wit shall hide the words of him till into a time; and the lips of many men shall tell out the wit of him. 
In the treasures of wisdom is signifying of knowing; but the wor-shipping of God is abomination to a sinner. 
A! son, coveting wisdom, keep thou rightfulness or rightwiseness, and God shall give it to thee. 
For why the dread of the Lord is wisdom, and knowing or discipline, and that that is well pleasant or well-pleased to him is faith and mildness; and God shall fill the treasures of him or it shall full-fill the treasures of him. 
Be thou not rebel, and unbelieve-ful to the dread of the Lord; and nigh thou not to him in or with double heart. 
Be thou not an hypocrite in the sight of men; and be thou not caused to stumble in thy lips. 
Take thou keep to those things, lest thou fall, and bring dishonor to thy soul; and lest God show thy privates, and hurtle thee down in the midst of the synagogue, that is, of gathering together of faithful men; for thou nighedest wickedly or malicious-ly to the Lord, and thine heart was full of guile and of falseness or treachery and deceit. 
