JOB.
Chapter 29.
Also Job added, taking his parable, and said, 
Who giveth to me, that I be beside the eld months, by the days in which God kept me? 
When his lantern shined on mine head, and I went in darknesses at his light. 
As I was in the days of my youth, when in private God was in my tabernacle. 
When Almighty God was with me, and my children were in my compass; 
when I washed my feet in or with butter, and the stone shedded or poured out to me the streams or rivers of oil; 
when I went forth to the gate of the city, and in the street they made ready a chair to me. 
Young wanton men saw me, and were hid, and eld or old men rising up stood; 
princes ceased to speak, and they putted their finger on their mouth; 
dukes refrained their voice, and their tongue cleaved to their throat. 
The ear that heard me, blessed me, and the eye that saw me, yielded witnessing to me; 
for I delivered the poor man crying out, and the fatherless child, that had no helper. 
The blessing of a man ready to perish came on me, and I comforted the heart of the widow. 
I was clothed with rightfulness or rightwiseness; and I clothed me as with a cloth, and with my doom a diadem. 
I was eye to a blind man, and foot to a crooked man. 
I was a father of poor men; and I inquired most diligently the cause, which I knew not. 
I all-brake the great teeth of the wicked man, and I took away the prey from his teeth. 
And I said, I shall die in my nest; and as a palm tree I shall multiply my days. 
My root is opened beside waters, and dew shall dwell in my reaping. 
My glory shall evermore be renewed, and my bow shall be restored in mine hand. 
They, that heard me, abided my sentence; and they were attentive, or taking heed to me, and they were still at my counsel. 
They durst nothing add to my words; and my speech dropped upon them. 
They abided me as rain; and they opened their mouth as to the soft rain coming late. 
If any time I laughed to them, they believed not; and the light of my cheer, that is, the gladness of my face, felled not down into the earth. 
If I would go to them, I sat the first; and when I sat as a king, while the host stood about, nevertheless I was the comforter of them that mourned. 
