JEREMIAH.
Chapter 43.
Forsooth it was done, when Jeremy, speaking to the people, had ful filled all the words of the Lord God of them, for which the Lord God of them sent him to them, all these words, 
Azariah, the son of Hoshaiah, said, and Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all proud men, saying to Jeremy, Thou speakest leasing; our Lord God sent not thee, and said, Enter ye not into Egypt, to dwell there; 
but Baruch, the son of Neriah, stirreth thee against us, that he betake us in the hands of Chaldees, that he slay us, and make to be led over into Babylon. 
And Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the princes of warriors, and all the people, heard not the voice of the Lord, that they dwell in the land of Judah. 
But Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the princes of warriors, took all of the remnants of Judah, that turned again from all folks, to which they were scattered before, that they should dwell in the land of Judah; 
they took men, and women, and little children, and the daughters of the king, and each person, whom Nebuzaradan, the prince of the chivalry, had left with Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan. And they took Jeremy, the prophet, and Baruch, the son of Neriah, 
and they entered into the land of Egypt; for they obeyed not to the voice of the Lord, and they came unto Tahpanhes. 
And the word of the Lord was made to Jeremy in Tahpanhes, and said, 
Take in thine hand great stones, and hide thou those in a den or hide them in the cave, which is under the wall of tilestone, in the gate of the house of Pharaoh, in Tahpanhes, while all the Jews see it. 
And thou shalt say to them, The Lord of hosts, God of Israel, saith these things, Lo! I shall send, and I shall take Nebuchadnezzar, my servant, the king of Babylon; and I shall set his throne on these stones, which I have hid; and he shall set his seat on those stones. 
And he shall come, and smite the land of Egypt, which in death into death, and which in captivity into captivity, and which in sword into sword. 
And he shall kindle fire in the temples of the gods of Egypt, and he shall burn those temples, and shall lead them prisoners; and the land of Egypt shall be wrapped, as a shepherd is wrapped in his mantle; and he shall go out from thence in peace. 
And he shall all-break the images of the house of the sun, that be in the land of Egypt; and he shall burn in fire the temples of the gods of Egypt. 
