NUMBERS.
Chapter 13.
And there the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Send thou men, that shall behold the land of Canaan, which I shall give to the sons of Israel; of each lineage send thou one man of the princes. 
Moses did that that the Lord commanded, and sent from the desert of Paran princes, men of which these be the names. 
Of the lineage of Reuben, Sham-mua, the son of Zaccur. 
Of the lineage of Simeon, Shaphat, the son of Hori. 
Of the lineage of Judah, Caleb, the son of Jephunneh. 
Of the lineage of Issachar, Igal, the son of Joseph. 
Of the lineage of Ephraim, Hoshea, the son of Nun. 
Of the lineage of Benjamin, Palti, the son of Raphu. 
Of the lineage of Zebulun, Gaddiel, the son of Sodi. 
Of the lineage of Joseph, of the generation of Manasseh, Gaddi, the son of Susi. 
Of the lineage of Dan, Ammiel, the son of Gemalli. 
Of the lineage of Asher, Sethur, the son of Michael. 
Of the lineage of Naphtali, Nahbi, the son of Vophsi. 
Of the lineage of Gad, Geuel, the son of Machi. 
These be the names of the men, which Moses sent to behold the land of Canaan; and Moses called Hoshea, the son of Nun, Joshua. 
Therefore Moses sent them to behold the land of Canaan, and said to them, Go ye up by the south coast; and when ye come in to the hills, 
behold ye the land, what manner land it is; and behold ye the people which is the dweller thereof, whether it is strong, either feeble, few in number, either many; 
whether that land is good, either evil; what manner cities be there, walled, either without walls; 
whether the land is fat, either barren, whether it is full of woods, either without trees. Be ye comforted, and bring ye to us of the fruits of that land. Soothly then the time was, when the grapes first ripe might be eaten. 
And when they had gone up, they espied the land, from the desert of Zin till to Rehob, as men enter to Hamath. 
And they went up to the south coast, and came into Hebron, where Ahiman, and Sheshai, and Talmai, the sons of Anak, were; for Hebron was made seven years before Tanis, the city of Egypt. 
And they went to the strand or stream of the cluster, and they cutted down a scion with his grapes, which two men bare with a bearing staff; also they took of the pomegranates, and of the figs of that place, 
which is called Nahal-eshcol, that is, the strand of grapes, or the strand of cluster, for the sons of Israel bare a cluster from thence. 
And the spyers of the land turned again, when they had compassed all the country, after forty days 
they came to Moses and Aaron, and to all the company of the sons of Israel, into the desert of Paran, which is in Kadesh. And the spyers spake to them, and showed the fruits of the land to all the multitude, 
and they told, and said, We came to the land, to which thou sentest us, which land truly floweth with milk and honey, as it may be known by these fruits; 
but it hath most strong dwellers, and great cities, and walled; we saw there the kindred of Anakim, that is, giants; 
Amalek dwelleth there in the south; Hittites, and Jebusites, and Amorites dwell in the hilly places; forsooth Canaanites dwell beside the sea, and beside the floods of Jordan. 
Among these things, or sayings, Caleb peaced the grutching of the people, that was made against Moses, and said, Go we up, and wield we the land, for we be able to get it. 
Soothly the other spyers, that were with him, said, We be not able to go up to this people, for it is stronger than we. 
And they spake evil of the land which they had beheld, to the sons of Israel, and said, The land that we compassed devoureth his dwellers; the people that we beheld is of large stature; 
there we saw some wonders against kind, of the sons of Anak, of the kind of giants, to which we were com-parisoned, and were seen as locusts. 
