ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 39.
and they give their soul, and they ask together or together seeking in the law of the Highest. A wise man shall seek out the wisdom of all eld or old men; and he shall give attention in prophets. 
He shall keep the tellings of named men; and he shall enter altogether into the hard sentences or the slynesses of parables. 
He shall seek out the privy things of proverbs; and he shall be con-versant in the hid things of parables. 
He shall minister in the midst of great men; and he shall appear in the sight of the chief judge. He shall pass into the land of alien folks; for he shall assay goods, and evils in all things. 
He shall give his heart to wake early to the Lord that made him; and he shall beseech or lowly pray in the sight of the Highest. He shall open his mouth in prayer; and he shall beseech for his trespasses. 
For if the great Lord will, he shall fill him with the spirit of under-standing. And he shall send the words of his wisdom, as rains; and in prayer he shall acknowledge to the Lord. 
And he, that is, the Lord, shall dress his counsel, and teaching; and shall counsel in his hid things. 
He shall make open the wisdom of his teaching; and he shall have glory in the law of the testament of the Lord. 
Many men shall praise his wisdom; and it shall not be done away till into the world. His mind or The memory of him shall not go away; and his name shall be sought from generation into generation. 
Folks shall tell out his wisdom; and the church shall tell out his praising. 
If his name dwelleth, he shall leave more than a thousand; and if he resteth, it shall profit to him. 
Yet I shall take counsel to tell out, for I am full-filled as with madness; and mine inner spirit saith in voice, 
Ye fruits of God, hear me, and make ye fruit, as roses planted up on the rivers of waters. 
Have ye odour of sweetness, as the Lebanon hath. Bring forth flowers, as a lily; give ye odour, and make ye boughs or brancheth into grace. And praise ye together a song; and bless ye the Lord in his works. 
Give ye great honour to his name, and acknowledge ye to him in the voice of your lips, in songs of lips, and in harps; and thus ye shall say in acknowledging, 
All the works of the Lord be full good. 
Forsooth the water as an heap of stones stood at his word; and as receptacles of waters in the word of his mouth. 
For why peaceableness is made in his commandment; and no default is or there is not lessening in the health of him, that is, in saving made by him. 
The works of each flesh or all fleshbe before him; and nothing is hid from his eyes. 
He beholdeth from the world till into the world; and nothing is too wonderful or marvellous in his sight. 
It is not to say, What is this thing, either, What is that thing? or What is this, or, What is that? for why all things shall be sought in their time. 
The blessing of him shall flow as a flood; 
and as the great flood filled greatly the earth, so his ire shall inherit in folks or so the wrath of him shall heritage Gentiles, that sought not him. 
As he turned waters into dry-nesses or drought, and the earth was dried, and his ways were dressed to the ways of them; so offences in his ire or wrathbe dressed to sinners. 
Good things were made at or from the beginning to good men; so good things and evil be made to worst men. 
The beginning of needful or necessary things to the life of men, water, fire, and iron, and salt, and milk, and bread of clean or tried flour of wheat, and honey, and a cluster of grapes, and oil, and clothes or clothing. 
All these things shall turn to holy men into goods; so and to unfaithful or unpious men and to sinners into evils. 
Spirits be that be made to vengeance or There be spirits that to vengeance be formed; and in their madness they confirmed their tor-ments. And in the time of ending they shall shed or pour out virtue; and they shall confound the strong venge-ance of him that made them. 
Fire, hail, hunger, and death; all these things be made or formed to vengeance; 
the teeth of beasts, and scorpions, and serpents, and a sword punishing wicked men into destroying. 
In the commandments of him, those or they shall eat, and those or they shall be made ready on the earth in need; and in their times those or they shall not over-pass one word. 
Therefore from the beginning I was confirmed; and I counselled, and thought, and left it all written down. 
All the works of the Lord be good; and each work shall serve in his hour. 
It is not to say, This is worse than that; for why all things shall be proved or approved in their time. 
And now in all the heart and mouth praise ye together, and bless ye the name of the Lord. 
