2ND CHRONICLES.
Chapter 5.
and so all the work was ful filled that Solomon made in the house of the Lord. Therefore Solomon brought in all things, that is, silver, and gold, which David, his father had avowed or vowed; and he putted or put all the vessels in the treasuries of the house of the Lord. 
After which things he gathered together all the greater men in birth of Israel, and all the princes of lineages of tribes, and the heads of meines, of the sons of Israel, into Jerusalem, that they should bring the ark of the bond of peace of the Lord from the city of David, which is Zion. 
Therefore all the men of Israel came to the king, in the solemn day of the seventh month. 
And when all the elder men of Israel came, the deacons or Levites bare the ark, 
and they brought it, and all the array of the tabernacle, into the temple. And the priests with the deacons or Levites bare the vessels of the saintuary, that were in the tabernacle. 
And king Solomon, and all the companies of Israel, and all that were gathered together, offered before the ark wethers and oxen without number; for the multitude of slain sacrifices was so great that it might not be numbered. 
And the priests brought the ark of the bond of peace of the Lord into the place thereof, that is, to God’s answering place of the temple, into the holy of holy things, under the wings of cherubims or cherubim; 
so that cherubims or cherubim spreaded forth their wings over the place, in which the ark was put, and covered that ark with his bearing bars. 
Soothly the heads, or pommels, of the bars, with which the ark was borne, were open, or uncovered, before God’s answering place, for those heads were a little longer than the stretching out of cherubs’ wings; but if a man had been a little without-forth, he might not see those bearing bars. Therefore the ark was there till into the present day; 
and there was none other thing in the ark, but the two tables, which Moses had put therein in Horeb, when the Lord gave the law to the sons of Israel going out of Egypt. 
And after this the priests went out of the saintuary, for all the priests, that might be found there, were hallowed, and the whiles, or certain times, and the order of services among priests, was not parted yet in that time; 
and both deacons or Levites and singers, that is, both they that were under Asaph, and they that were under Heman, and they that were under Jeduthun, their sons and brethren, clothed with white linen clothes, sounded with cymbals and psalteries and harps, and stood at the west coast, or corner, of the altar, and with them were sixscore priests trumping. 
Therefore when they all sang together, both with trumps, and voice, and cymbals, and organs, and of diverse kinds of musics, and they raised up their voice on high, the sound was heard a far, so that when they had begun to praise the Lord, and to say, Acknowledge ye to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is into the world, either without end; the house of God was filled with a cloud, 
and the priests might not stand to serve for the darkness; for the glory of the Lord had filled the house of the Lord. 
