1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 10.
Forsooth the Philistines fought against Israel, and the sons of Israel fled from the Philistines, and felled down wounded in the hill of Gilboa. 
And when the Philistines had nighed pursuing Saul and his sons, they killed Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul. 
And the battle was aggrieved against Saul; and men archers found him, and wounded him with darts. 
And Saul said to his squire, Draw out thy sword, and slay me, lest these uncircumcised men come, and scorn me. But his squire was afeared by dread, and would not do this; there-fore Saul took a sword, and felled upon it. 
And when his squire had seen this, that is, that Saul was dead, he felled also on his sword, and was dead. 
Therefore Saul perished, and his three sons, and all his house felled or fell down together. 
And when the men of Israel, that dwelled in field places, had seen this, they fled; and when Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook their cities, and were scattered hither and thither; and Philistines came, and dwelled in those or them. 
Therefore in the tother day, the Philistines drew away the spoils of the slain men, and found Saul and his sons lying in the hill of Gilboa. 
And when they had spoiled him, and had girded off the head, and had made him naked of the armours, they sent his head into their land, that it should be borne about, and should be showed in the temples of idols, and to peoples; 
and they hallowed his armours in the temple of their gods, and they setted the head in the temple of Dagon. 
When men of Jabesh of Gilead had heard this, that is, all things which the Philistines did on Saul, 
all the strong men rose together, and took the dead bodies of Saul and of his sons, and brought those or them into Jabesh; and they buried the bones of them under an oak, that was in Jabesh; and fasted seven days. 
Therefore Saul was dead for his wickednesses, for he brake the behest of the Lord, which he had command-ed, and kept not it, but furthermore also he took counsel at a woman having a fiend speaking in the womb, 
and he hoped not in the Lord; for which thing both the Lord killed him, and translated his realm to David, the son of Jesse. 
