PSALMS.
Chapter 107.
Alleluia. Acknowledge ye to the Lord, for he is good; for his mercy is into the world. 
Say they, that be again-bought of the Lord; which he again-bought from the hand of the enemy, 
from countries he gathered them together. From the rising of the sun, and from the going down; from the north, and from the sea. 
They erred in wilderness, in a place without water; they found not way of the city of dwelling place. 
They were hungry and thirsty; their souls failed in them. 
And they cried to the Lord, when they were set in tribulation; and he delivered them from their needinesses. 
And he led forth them into the right way; that they should go into the city of dwelling. 
The mercies of the Lord, acknowl-edge to him; and his marvels acknowl-edge to the sons of men. 
For he ful filled a void man; and he filled with goods an hungry man. 
God delivered men sitting in dark-ness, and in the shadow of death; and men imprisoned in beggary, and in irons. 
For they made bitter the speeches of God; and wrathed the counsel of the Highest. 
And the heart of them was made meek in travails; and they were sick, and none was that helped. 
And they cried to the Lord, when they were set in tribulation; and he delivered them from their needinesses. 
And he led them out of dark-nesses, and the shadow of death; and brake the bonds of them. 
The mercies of the Lord, ac-knowledge to him; and his marvels, acknowledge to the sons of men. 
For he all-brake the brazen gates; and he brake the iron bars. 
He up-took them from the way of their wickedness; for they were made low for their unrightfulnesses. 
The soul of them loathed all meat; and they nighed unto the gates of death. 
And they cried to the Lord, when they were set in tribulation; and he delivered them from their needinesses. 
He sent his word, and healed them; and delivered them from the perishings of them. 
The mercies of the Lord, ac-knowledge to him; and his marvels to the sons of men. 
And offer they the sacrifice of praising; and tell they his works with full out joying. 
They that go down into the sea in ships; and make working in many waters. 
They saw the works of the Lord; and his marvels in the depth. 
He said, and the spirit of tempest stood; and the waves thereof were areared. 
They ascend or go up till to heavens, and go down unto the depths; the soul of them failed in evils. 
They were troubled, and they were moved as a drunken man; and all the wisdom of them was devoured. 
And they cried to the Lord, when they were set in tribulation; and he led them out of their needinesses. 
And he ordained the tempest there-of into a soft wind, either peaceability; and the waves thereof were stilled. 
And they were glad, for those or they were still; and he led them forth into the haven of their will. 
The mercies of the Lord, acknowl-edge to him; and his marvels to the sons of men. 
And enhance they him in the church of the people; and praise they him in the chairs of the elder men. 
He hath set floods into desert; and the outgoings of waters into thirsty ground. 
He hath set fruitful land into salti-ness; for the malice of men dwelling therein. 
He hath set desert into ponds of waters; and the earth without water into the outgoings of waters. 
And he set there hungry men; and they made a city of dwelling. 
And they sowed fields, and planted vines; and made fruit of birth. 
And he blessed them, and they were multiplied greatly; and he made not less their work beasts. 
And they were made few; and were travailed of tribulation of evils and of sorrow. 
Strife was shed or poured out on princes; and he made them for to err without the way, and not in the way. 
And he helped the poor man from poverty; and setted or put families as a sheep bringing forth lambs. 
Rightful men shall see, and shall be glad; and all wickedness shall stop his mouth. 
Who is wise, and shall keep these things; and shall understand the mercies of the Lord? 
