NUMBERS.
Chapter 15.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, When ye have entered into the land of your habitation, which I shall give to you, 
and ye shall make an offering to the Lord into burnt sacrifice, either a peaceable sacrifice, and ye pay avows, either offer gifts by free will, either in your solemnities ye burn odour of sweetness to the Lord, of oxen, either of sheep; 
whoever offereth the slain sacrifice, shall offer a sacrifice of flour, the tenth part of ephah, sprinkled altogether with oil, which oil shall have a measure the fourth part of hin; 
and he shall give wine to the flowing sacrifices to be poured, of the same measure, into burnt sacrifice, and slain sacrifice. 
By each lamb and ram shall be the sacrifice of tried flour, of two tenth parts, which shall be sprinkled alto-gether with oil, of the third part of hin; 
and he shall offer wine to the flowing sacrifice, of the third part of the same measure, into odour of sweet-ness to the Lord. 
Forsooth when thou makest a burnt sacrifice, either an offering, of oxen, that thou ful fill a vow, either peaceable sacrifices, 
thou shalt give, by each ox, three tenth parts of tried flour, sprinkled altogether with oil, which shall have the half measure of hin; 
and thou shalt give wine to the flowing sacrifice to be poured, of the same measure, into offering of the sweetest odour to the Lord. 
So ye shall do by each ox, and ram, and lamb, and kid; 
(See verse 11 above.) 
as well men born in the land, as pilgrims, shall offer sacrifices by the same custom; 
(See verse 13 above.) 
(See verse 16 below.) 
one commandment and doom shall be, as well to you as to the comelings of the land. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, When ye come into the land which I shall give to you, 
and ye eat of the loaves of that country, ye shall separate a little cake of your pastes to the Lord; 
as ye shall separate the first fruits of your cornfloors, 
so ye shall give the first fruits also of your sowls or pottage to the Lord. 
That if by ignorance ye pass by any of those things which the Lord spake to Moses, 
and hath commanded by him to you, from the day in which he began to command, and over, 
and the multitude hath forgotten to do this, it shall offer a calf of the drove, burnt sacrifice into sweetest odour to the Lord, and the sacrifices thereof, and flowing offerings, as the ceremonies thereof ask; and it shall offer a buck of goats for sin. 
And the priest shall pray for all the multitude of the sons of Israel, and it shall be forgiven to them, for they sinned not willfully. And nevertheless they shall offer incense to the Lord for themselves, and for their sin, and their error; 
and it shall be forgiven to all the people of the sons of Israel, and to the comelings that be pilgrims among them, for it is the sin of all the multitude by ignorance. 
That if a soul sinneth unwittingly, it shall offer a she-goat of one year for his sin; 
and the priest shall pray for that soul, for it sinned unwittingly before the Lord; and the priest shall get forgiveness to it, and the sin shall be forgiven to it. 
As well to men born in the land, as to comelings, one law shall be of all that sin unwittingly. 
Forsooth a man that doeth any sin by pride, shall perish from the people, whether he be a citizen, either a pilgrim, for he was rebel against the Lord; 
for he despised the word of the Lord, and made void his command-ment; therefore he shall be done away, and shall bear his own wickedness. 
Soothly it was done, when the sons of Israel were in wilderness, and they had found a man gathering wood in the sabbath day, 
they brought him to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the multitude; 
the which enclosed, or put, him into prison, and they knew not what they should do to him. 
And the Lord said to Moses, This man die by death; all the company oppress him with stones without or away from the tents. 
And when they had led him withoutforth, they killed him with stones, and he was dead, as the Lord commanded. 
Also the Lord said to Moses, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, that they make to them hems by four corners of their mantles, and fasten they in them laces of jacinth; 
and when they see those, have they mind of all the commandments of the Lord, lest they pursue or follow their own thoughts and their eyes, doing fornication by diverse things. 
but more be they mindful of the behests of the Lord, and do they those or them, and be they holy to their God. 
I am your Lord God, which led you out of the land of Egypt, that I should be your God. 
