2ND CHRONICLES.
Chapter 3.
And Solomon began to build the house of the Lord in Jerusalem, in the hill of Moriah, that was showed to David, his father, in the place that David had made ready in the corn-floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
Forsooth he began to build in the second day of the second month, in the fourth year of his realm. 
And these were the foundaments, which Solomon setted or laid, that he should build the house of God; sixty cubits of length in the first measure, and twenty cubits of breadth. 
And he builded a porch before the front, that was stretched forth along beside or at the measure of the breadth of the house, of twenty cubits, and the highness was of an hundred and twenty cubits; and he overgilded it within with cleanest gold. 
Also he covered the greater house with boards of box wood, and he fastened plates of gold of the best colour all about; and he engraved therein palm trees, and as small chains embracing themselves together. 
And he arrayed the pavement of the temple with most precious marble, in much fairness. And the gold was most proved, 
of whose plates he covered the house, and the beams thereof, and the posts, and the walls, and the doors; and he graved cherubims, that is, angels, in the walls. 
Also he made an house to the holy of holy things, in length by the breadth of the house, of twenty cubits, and the breadth also of twenty cubits; and he covered it with golden plates, as with six hundred talents in value. 
And also he made golden nails, so that each nail weighed fifty shekels; and he covered the solars with gold. 
Also he made in the house of the holy of holy things, two cherubims or cherubim by the work of an image maker, and covered them with gold. 
The wings of cherubims or cher-ubim were holden forth by twenty cubits, so that one wing had five cubits, and it touched the wall of the house; and the tother wing had five cubits, and it touched the wing of the other cherub. 
In like manner the one wing of the other cherub had five cubits, and it touched the wall, and the other wing thereof that was of five cubits, touched the wing of the other cherub. 
Therefore the wings of ever either cherub were spread abroad, and they were holden forth by twenty cubits; and those cherubims stood upon the feet raised up, and their faces were turned to the outermore house. 
Also he made a veil of jacinth, and purple, of red silk, and bis; and weaved cherubims or cherubim therein. 
Also before the gates of the temple he made two pillars, which had five and thirty cubits of height; and the heads of those pillars were of five cubits in height. 
Also he made as it were little chains in God’s answering place, and he putted them on the heads of the pillars; also he made an hundred pomegranates, which he setted or put betwixt the little chains. 
And he setted or put those pillars in the porch of the temple, one at the right side, and the other at the left side; he called that pillar that was at the right side Jachin, and that that was at the left side he called Boaz. 
