EZEKIEL.
Chapter 46.
The Lord God saith these things, The gate of the inner foreyard, that beholdeth to the east, shall be closed six days in which work is done; for it shall be opened in the day of sabbath, but also it shall be opened in the day of calends. 
And the prince shall enter by the way of the porch of the gate without-forth, and he shall stand in the threshold of the gate; and priests shall make the burnt sacrifice of him, and the peaceable sacrifices of him; and he shall worship on the threshold of the gate, and he shall go out; forsooth the gate shall not be closed till to the eventide. 
And the people of the land shall worship at the door of that gate, in sabbaths, and in calends, before the Lord. 
Forsooth the prince shall offer this burnt sacrifice to the Lord in the day of sabbath, six lambs without wem, and a wether without wem, 
and the sacrifice of ephah by a wether; but in the lambs he shall offer the sacrifice which his hand shall give, and of oil the measure hin, by each ephah. 
But in the day of calends he shall offer a calf without wem of the drove; and six lambs, and wethers shall be without wem, 
and ephah by a calf. Also he shall make the sacrifice, ephah by a wether; but of lambs as his hand findeth, and of oil the measure hin, by each ephah. 
And when the prince shall enter, enter he by the way of the porch of the gate, and go he out by the same way. 
And when the people of the land shall enter in the sight of the Lord into solemnities, which people entereth by the gate of the north for to worship, go it out by the way of the south gate. Certainly the people that entereth by the way of the south gate, go out by the way of the north gate. It shall not turn again by the way of the gate by which it entered, but even against that way it shall go out. 
Forsooth the prince shall be in the midst of them; he shall enter with them that enter, and he shall go out with them that go out. 
And in fairs and in solemnities, the sacrifice of ephah shall be by a calf, and ephah by a wether; in lambs shall be sacrifice as his hand findeth, and of oil the measure hin, by each ephah. 
Forsooth when the prince maketh a willful burnt sacrifice, either willful peaceable sacrifices to the Lord, the gate that beholdeth to the east shall be opened to him; and he shall make his burnt sacrifice, and his peaceable sacrifices, as it is wont to be done in the day of sabbath; and he shall go out, and the gate shall be closed after that he went out. 
And he shall make burnt sacrifice each day to the Lord, a lamb without wem of the same year; ever he shall make it in the morrowtide, 
and he shall make sacrifice on it full early; early he shall make the sixth part of ephah, and of oil the third part of hin, that it be meddled or mingled with the flour of wheat; it is a lawful sacrifice, continual and everlasting, to the Lord. 
He shall make ready a lamb, and sacrifice, and oil, full early; he shall make ready early the burnt sacrifice everlasting. 
The Lord God saith these things, If the prince giveth an house to any of his sons, the heritage of him shall be of his sons; they shall wield it by heritage. 
Forsooth if he giveth a bequest of his heritage to one of his servants, it shall be his till to the year of remission, and it shall turn again to the prince; forsooth the heritage of him shall be to his sons. 
And the prince shall not take by violence of the heritage of the people, and of the possession of them; but of his own possession he shall give heritage to his sons, that my people be not scattered, each man from his possession. 
And he led me in by the entering, that was on the side of the gate, into the chambers of the saintuary to the priests, which chambers beheld to the north; and there was a place going to the west. 
And he said to me, This is the place where priests shall seethe, both for sin of doing, and for trespass of leaving undone; where they shall seethe sacrifice, that they bear it not out into the outermore foreyard, and the people be hallowed. 
And he led me out into the outermore foreyard, and led me about by the four corners of the foreyard; and lo! a little foreyard was in the corner of the foreyard, all little fore-yards by the corners of the foreyard; 
in four corners of the foreyard little foreyards were disposed, of forty cubits by length, and of thirty by breadth; four were of one measure; 
and a wall by compass went about four little foreyards; and kitchens were made under the porches by compass. 
And he said to me, This is the house of kitchens, in which the ministers of the house of the Lord shall seethe the sacrifice of the people. 
