EXODUS.
Chapter 28.
Also apply or present thou to thee, or bring to thy presence, Aaron, thy brother, with his sons, from the midst of the sons of Israel, that Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar, be set in priesthood to me. 
And thou shalt make an holy cloth to Aaron, thy brother, into glory and fairness. 
And thou shalt speak to all the wise men in heart, which I have filled with the spirit of prudence, that they make clothes to Aaron, in which he shall be hallowed, and shall minister to me. 
Forsooth these shall be the clothes, which they shall make; they shall make a rational, that is, an ouch or brooch upon the breast, in which doom and truth, or Urim and Thum-mim shall be written, and a cloth on the shoulders or cape, a coat, and a strait linen cloth, a mitre, and a girdle; holy clothes to Aaron, thy brother, and to his sons, that they be set in priesthood to me. 
And they shall take gold, and jacinth, and purple, and red silk twice-dyed, and bis; 
forsooth they shall make the cloth on the shoulders or cape of gold, and of jacinth, and of purple, and of red silk twice-dyed, and of bis folded again, by embroidery work or needle-work of diverse colours. 
It shall have two hems joined to ever either side of the highness, that they go into one. 
That weaving, and all the diversity of the work shall be of gold, and of jacinth, and of purple, and of red silk twice-dyed, and of bis folded again. 
And thou shalt take two stones of onyx, and thou shalt engrave in them the names of the sons of Israel, 
six names in one stone, and six others in the tother stone, by the order of their birth; 
by the work of an engraver, and by the painting of a man that adorneth with gems, thou shalt engrave those stones with the names of the sons of Israel; and thou shalt enclose and encompass with gold. 
And thou shalt set those stones in ever either side of the cloth on the shoulders or cape, as a memorial to the sons of Israel; and Aaron shall bear the names of them before the Lord on ever either shoulder, for remembering. 
And thou shalt make hooks of gold, 
and two little chains of cleanest gold, cleaving to themselves together, which little chains thou shalt set in the hooks. 
Also thou shalt make the rational of doom by work of diverse colours, after the weaving of the cloth on the shoulders or cape, of gold, jacinth, and purple, of red silk twice-dyed, and of bis folded again. 
It shall be four-cornered, and double; it shall have the measure of a palm of an hand, as well in the length, as in breadth. 
And thou shalt set therein four orders of stones; in the first order shall be the stone sardius, topaz, and smaragdus; 
in the second order shall be carbuncle, sapphire, and jasper; 
in the third order shall be ligure, agate, and amethyst; 
and in the fourth order shall be crystallite, onyx, and beryl; these or they shall be enclosed in gold, by their orders, 
and shall have the names of the sons of Israel; these or they shall be engraved with twelve names; all the stones by themselves, with the names of all the sons by themselves, by the twelve lineages. 
Thou shalt make in the rational chains cleaving to themselves together of purest gold, 
and thou shalt make two golden rings, which thou shalt set in ever either highness of the rational. 
And thou shalt join the golden chains with the rings that be in the margins thereof, 
and thou shalt couple the ends of the chains to the two hooks in ever either side of the cloth on the shoulders or cape, that beholdeth the rational. 
And thou shalt make two golden rings, which thou shalt set in the high-ness of the rational, and in the hems of the cloth on the shoulders or cape, that be even against, and behold the latter things thereof. 
Also and thou shalt make twain or two other golden rings, that shall be set in ever either side of the cloth on the shoulders or cape beneath, that beholdeth against the face of the lower joining, that it may be set covenably with the cloth on the shoulders or cape. 
And the rational be bound by his rings with the rings of the cloth on the shoulders or cape, with a lace of jacinth, that the joining made may craftily dwell, and that the rational and the cloth on the shoulders or cape may not be separated each from other. 
And Aaron shall bear the names of the sons of Israel in the rational of doom on his breast, when he entereth into the saintuary, a memorial before the Lord without end. 
Forsooth thou shalt set in the rational of doom, teaching and truth or Urim and Thummim, which shall be in the breast of Aaron, when he entereth before the Lord; and he shall bear the doom of the sons of Israel in his breast in the sight of the Lord evermore. 
And thou shalt make the coat of the cloth on the shoulders or cape all of jacinth, 
in whose middle above shall be an hood, that is, an hole for the head, and a woven hem by compass thereof, as it is wont to be done in the hems of clothes, lest it be broken lightly. 
Forsooth beneath at the feet of the same coat, by compass, thou shalt make as pomegranates, of jacinth, and purple, and of red silk twice-dyed, and of bis folded again; 
while small bells be meddled or mingled in the midst, so that a little gold bell be and a pomegranate, and again another little bell of gold and a pomegranate. 
And Aaron shall be clothed with that coat, or alb, in the office of his service, that the sound be heard, when he entereth into the saintuary, and goeth out, in the sight of the Lord; and that he die not. 
And thou shalt make a plate of purest gold, in which thou shalt engrave by the work of an engraver, The Holy to the Lord, that is, the name of the Lord, Tetragrammaton. 
And thou shalt bind that plate with a lace of jacinth, and it shall be on the mitre, and it shall nigh to the forehead of the bishop. 
And Aaron shall bear the wicked-nesses of those things that the sons of Israel shall offer, and hallow in all their gifts to God, and in their free gifts to men; and the plate shall evermore be in Aaron’s forehead, that the Lord be pleased to them. 
And thou shalt bind the coat of bis, that is, the linen cloth, and the mitre of bis, and thou shalt make also a girdle, by embroidery work. 
Forsooth thou shalt make ready to Aaron’s sons linen coats, that is, linen clothes, and girdles, and mitres, into glory and fairness. 
And thou shalt clothe Aaron, thy brother, with all these things, and his sons with him. And thou shalt anoint them, and make sacred the hands of them all; and thou shalt hallow them, that they be set in priesthood to me. 
Also thou shalt make to them linen breeches, that they cover the flesh of their filthhood, from the reins unto their hips. 
And Aaron and his sons shall use those breeches, when they shall enter into the tabernacle of witnessing, or when they nigh to the altar, that they minister in the saintuary, lest they be guilty of wickedness, and die; it shall be a lawful thing everlasting to Aaron, and to his seed after him. 
