JEREMIAH.
Chapter 14.
The word of the Lord, that was made to Jeremy, of the words of dryness. 
Judah wailed, and the gates thereof fell down, and be made dark in the earth, and the cry of Jerusalem went up. 
Greater men sent their lesser men to water; they came to draw water, and they found no water, they brought again their vessels void; they were shamed and tormented, and they covered their heads, 
for the destroying of the land, for rain came not in the land. Earth-tillers were shamed, they covered their heads. 
For why and an hind calved in the field, and left her calves, for none herb was; 
and wild asses stood in rocks, and drew wind as dragons; their eyes failed, for none herb was. 
If our wickednesses answer to us, Lord, do thou for thy name, for our turnings away be many; we have sinned against thee. 
Thou abiding of Israel, the saviour thereof in the time of tribulation, why shalt thou be as a comeling in the land, and as a way-goer bowing down to dwell? 
why shalt thou be as a man of unstable dwelling, as a strong man that may not save? Forsooth, Lord, thou art in us, and thine holy name is called to help on us; forsake thou not us. 
The Lord saith these things to this people, that loved to stir his feet, and rested not, and pleased not the Lord; now he shall have mind on the wickednesses of them, and he shall visit the sins of them. 
And the Lord said to me, Do not thou pray for this people into good. 
When they shall fast, I shall not hear the prayers of them; and if they offer burnt sacrifices and slain sacrifices, I shall not receive them, for I shall waste them by sword and hunger and pestilence. 
And I said, A! A! A! Lord God, the prophets say to them, Ye shall not see sword, and hunger shall not be in you, but he shall give to you very peace in this place. 
And the Lord said to me, The prophets prophesy falsely in my name; I sent not them, and I commanded not to them, neither I spake to them; they prophesy to you a false revelation, and a guileful divining, and the deceiving of their heart. 
Therefore the Lord saith these things of the prophets that prophesy in my name, which I sent not, and say, Sword and hunger shall not be in this land; Those prophets shall be wasted by sword and hunger. 
And the peoples, to which they prophesied, shall be cast forth in the ways of Jerusalem, for hunger and sword, and none there shall be, that shall bury them; they and the wives of them, the sons and the daughters of them; and I shall shed or pour out on them their evil. 
And thou shalt say to them this word, Mine eyes lead down a tear by night and day, and be it not still; for the virgin, the daughter of my people, is defouled by great defouling, with the worst wound greatly. 
If I go out to the fields, lo! men be slain with sword; and if I enter into the city, lo! men be made lean for hunger; also a prophet and a priest went into the land which they knew not. 
Whether thou casting away hast cast away Judah, either thy soul hath loathed Zion? why therefore hast thou smitten us, so that no health there is? We abided peace, and no good is; and we abided time of healing, and lo! troubling is. 
Lord, we have known our unfaith-fulness, and the wickednesses of our fathers, for we have sinned to thee. 
Give thou not us into shame, for thy name, neither do thou despite to us; have thou mind on the seat of thy glory, make thou not void thy bond of peace with us. 
Whether in graven images of heathen men be they that rain, either heavens may give rains? whether thou art not our Lord God, whom we abided? For thou madest all these things. 
