2ND CHRONICLES.
Chapter 17.
Forsooth Jehoshaphat, his son, reigned for him; and he had the mastery against Israel. 
And he set numbers of knights in all the cities of Judah, that were encompassed with walls, and he disposed strongholds in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa, his father, had taken. 
And the Lord was with Jehosh-aphat, which went in the first ways of David, his father; he hoped not in Baalim, 
but he hoped in the Lord God of David, his father, and he went in the commandments of God, and not after the sins of Israel. 
And the Lord confirmed the realm in his hand; and all Judah gave gifts to Jehoshaphat, and riches without num-ber, and much glory was made to him. 
And when his heart had taken hardiness for the ways of the Lord, he took away also high places and maumet woods from Judah. 
And in the third year of his realm, he sent of his princes, Ben-hail, and Obadiah, and Zechariah, and Nethane-el, and Michaiah, that they should teach in the cities of Judah; 
and with them he sent nine dea-cons or Levites, that is, Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Toba-donijah, deacons or Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, priests; 
and they taught the people in Judah, and had the book of the law of the Lord; and they compassed all the cities of Judah, and taught all the people. 
Therefore the dread of the Lord was made upon all the realms of lands, that were about Judah; and those durst not fight or they were not hardy to fight against Jehoshaphat. 
But also the Philistines brought gifts to Jehoshaphat, and toll, or tribute, of silver; and men of Arabia brought to him sheep, seven thousand and seven hundred wethers, and so many bucks of goats. 
Then Jehoshaphat increased, and was magnified till to on high; and he builded in Judah houses at the like-ness of towers, and full strong cities; 
and he made ready many works in the cities of Judah. Also men warriors and strong men were in Jerusalem; 
of which this is the number, by the houses and meines of all men in Judah. Duke Adnah was prince of the host, and with him were three hundred thousand full strong men. 
And after him was Jehohanan prince, and with him were two hundred thousand and fourscore thousand men. 
After this also Amasiah, the son of Zichri, was hallowed to the Lord, and with him were two hundred thousand of strong men. 
And of Benjamin; Eliada, a mighty man to battles, pursued or followed this Amasiah, and with him were two hundred thousand of men holding bow and shield. 
After this was also Jehozabad, and with him were an hundred thousand and fourscore thousand of ready knights. 
All these were at the hand of the king, besides others, which he had put in walled cities in all Judah. 
