PROVERBS.
Chapter 16.
It pertaineth to man to make ready the soul; and it pertaineth to the Lord to govern the tongue. 
All the ways of men be open to the eyes of God; the Lord is a weigher of spirits, that is, of wills, yielding to man after his deservings. 
Show thy works to the Lord; and thy thoughts shall be addressed. 
The Lord wrought all things for himself; and he made ready a wicked man to the evil day. 
Abomination of the Lord is each proud man; yea, though the hand is to the hand, he shall not be innocent. The beginning of the good way is to do rightwiseness; forsooth it is more acceptable with God, than to offer sacrifices. 
Wickedness is again-bought by mercy and truth; and men boweth away from evil by the dread of the Lord. 
When the ways of a man please the Lord, he shall convert, yea, his enemies to peace. 
Better is a little with rightfulness or rightwiseness, than many fruits with wickedness. 
The heart of a man shall dispose his way; but it pertaineth to the Lord to dress his steps. 
Divining is in the lips of a king; his mouth shall not err in doom. 
The dooms of the Lord be weight and balance; and his works be all the stones of the world. 
They that do wickedly be abominable to the king; for the throne of the realm is made steadfast by rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
The will of kings is just or rightwise lips; he that speaketh rightful or right things, shall be addressed. 
The Indignation of the king is messengers of death; and a wise man shall please him. 
Life is in gladness of the king’s cheer; and his mercy is as rain coming late. 
Wield thou wisdom, for it is better than gold; and get thou prudence, for it is preciouser than silver. 
The path of just or rightwise men boweth away from evils; the keeper of his soul keepeth his way. 
Pride goeth before sorrow; and the spirit shall be enhanced before falling. 
It is better to be made meek with mild men, than to part spoils with proud men. 
A learned man in word shall find goods; and he that hopeth in the Lord is blessed. 
He that is wise in heart, shall be called prudent; and he that is sweet in speech, shall find greater things. 
The well of life is the learning of him that wieldeth; the teaching of fools is folly. 
The heart of a wise man shall teach his mouth; and shall increase grace to his lips. 
Words well-set together is a comb of honey; health of bones is the sweetness of soul. 
A way there is that seemeth rightful or right to a man; and the last things thereof lead to death. 
The soul of a man travailing travaileth to himself; for his mouth compelled him. 
An unwise man diggeth for evil; and fire burneth in his lips. 
A wayward man raiseth strives; and a man full of words separateth princes. 
A wicked man flattereth his friend; and leadeth him by a way not good. 
He that thinketh shrewd things with eyes astonied, biteth his lips, and performeth evil. 
A crown of dignity is eld age, that shall be found in the ways of rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
A patient man is better than a strong man; and he that is lord of his soul, is better than an overcomer of cities. 
Lots be sent into the bosom; but they be tempered of the Lord. 
