EZEKIEL.
Chapter 5.
And thou, son of man, take to thee a sharp sword, or razor, for shaving hairs; and thou shalt take it, and shalt lead it by thine head, and by thy beard. And thou shalt take to thee a balance of weights, and thou shalt part those or them. 
Thou shalt burn the third part with fire in the midst of the city, by the ful filling of days of besieging. And thou shalt take the third part, and shalt cut by sword in the compass thereof. But thou shalt scatter the tother third part into the wind; and I shall make naked a sword after them. 
And thou shalt take thereof a little number of those hairs, and thou shalt bind those or them in the highness of thy mantle. 
And again thou shalt take of them, and thou shalt cast forth them into the midst of the fire. And thou shalt burn them in fire; and fire shall go out of that into all the house of Israel. 
The Lord God saith these things, This is Jerusalem; I have set or put it in the midst of heathen men, and lands in the compass thereof. 
And it despised my dooms, that it was more wicked than heathen men; and it despised my commandments more than lands that be in the compass thereof. For they have cast away my dooms, and they went not in my commandments. 
Therefore the Lord God saith these things, For ye have passed heathen men that be in your compass, and ye went not in my commandments, and ye did not my dooms, and ye wrought not by the dooms of heathen men that be in your compass; 
therefore the Lord God saith these things, Lo! I to thee, and I myself shall make dooms in the midst of thee, before the eyes of heathen men; 
and I shall do things in thee which I did not, and to which I shall no more make like things, for all thine abominations. 
Therefore fathers shall eat sons in the midst of thee, and sons shall eat their fathers; and I shall make dooms in thee, and I shall winnow all thine remnants into each wind; 
Therefore I live, saith the Lord God, no but for that that thou defouledest mine holy thing in all thine offences, and in all thine abom-inations; and I shall break, and mine eye shall not spare, and I shall not do mercy. 
The third part of thee shall die by pestilence, and shall be wasted by hunger in the midst of thee; and the third part of thee shall fall down by sword in thy compass; forsooth I shall scatter thy third part into each wind, and I shall draw out a sword after them. 
And I shall ful fill my strong vengeance, and I shall make mine indignation to rest in them, and I shall be comforted. And they shall know, that I the Lord spake in my fervent love, when I shall ful fill all mine indignation in them. 
And I shall give thee into desert, and into shame to heathen men that be in thy compass, in the sight of each that passeth forth. 
And thou shalt be shame and blasphemy, ensample and wondering, among heathen men that be in thy compass, when I shall make dooms in thee, in strong vengeance, and indignation, and in blamings of ire. I the Lord have spoken, 
when I shall send into them the worst arrows of hunger, that shall bear death; and which I shall send, that I lose you. And I shall gather hunger up on you, and I shall all-break in you the firmness of bread. 
And I shall send into you hunger, and worst beasts, till to the death; and pestilence and blood shall pass by thee, and I shall bring in a sword on thee; I the Lord spake. 
