PSALMS.
Chapter 34.
To David, when he changed his mouth, or his word, before Abimelech, and he drove out David, and he went forth. The psalm of David, when he changed his cheer before Abimelech, and he let him go, and he went away. I shall bless the Lord in all time; evermore his praising be in my mouth. 
My soul shall be praised in the Lord; mild men hear, and be glad. 
Magnify ye the Lord with me; and enhance we his name into itself. 
I sought the Lord, and he heard me; and he delivered me from all my tribulations. 
Nigh ye to him, and be ye lighten-ed; and your faces shall not be shamed. 
This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him; and saved him from all his tribulations. 
The angel of the Lord sendeth in the compass of men dreading him; and he shall deliver them. 
Taste ye, and see, for the Lord is sweet; blessed is the man, that hopeth in him. 
All ye holy men of the Lord, dread ye him; for no neediness is to men dreading him. 
Rich men were needy, and were hungry; but men that seek the Lord shall not fail of all good. 
Come, ye sons, hear ye me; I shall teach you the dread of the Lord. 
Who is the man, that willeth or desireth life; that loveth to see good days? 
Forbid thy tongue from evil; and thy lips speak not guile. 
Turn thou away from evil, and do good; seek thou peace, and perfectly pursue thou it. 
The eyes of the Lord be on just or rightwise men; and his ears be to their prayers. 
But the cheer of the Lord is on men doing evils; that he lose the mind the memory of them from the earth. 
Just or rightwise men cried, and the Lord heard them; and delivered them from all their tribulations. 
The Lord is nigh to them that be of troubled heart; and he shall save meek men in spirit. 
Many tribulations be of just or rightwise men; and the Lord shall deliver them from all these or them. 
The Lord keepeth all the bones of them; one of those or them shall not be broken. 
The death of sinners is worst; and they that hate a just or rightwise man shall trespass. 
The Lord shall again-buy the souls of his servants; and all, that hope in him, shall not trespass. 
