ISAIAH.
Chapter 47.
Thou virgin, the daughter of Babylon, go down, sit thou in dust, sit thou in the earth; a king’s seat is not to the daughter of the Chaldees, for thou shalt no more be called soft and tender. 
Take thou a quernstone, and grind thou meal; make thou naked thy filth-hood, discover the shoulder, show the hips, pass thou over the floods. 
Thy shame shall be showed, and thy shame shall be seen; I shall take vengeance, and no man shall against-stand me. 
Our again-buyer, the Lord of hosts is his name, the Holy of Israel. 
Daughter of Chaldees, sit thou, be thou still, and enter into darknesses, for thou shalt no more be called the lady of realms. 
I was wroth on my people, I defouled mine heritage, and I gave them in thine hand, and thou settedest not mercies to them; thou madest grievous the yoke greatly on an eld or old man, 
and thou saidest, Without end I shall be a lady; thou puttedest not these things on thine heart, neither thou bethoughtest on thy last thing. 
And now, thou delicate, and dwelling trustily, hear these things, which sayest in thine heart, I am, and besides me there is no more; I shall not sit a widow, and I shall not know barrenness. 
These two things, barrenness and widowhood, shall come to thee suddenly in one day; all things came on thee for the multitude of thy witchcrafts, and for the great hardness of thine enchanters, either tregetours. 
And thou haddest trust in thy malice, and saidest, None is that seeth me; this, thy wisdom and thy knowing, deceived thee; and thou saidest in thine heart, I am, and besides me there is none other. 
Evil shall come up on thee, and thou shalt not know the beginning thereof; and wickedness or wretched-ness shall fall up on thee, which thou shalt not be able to cleanse; wretched-ness which thou knowest not, shall come up on thee suddenly. 
Stand thou with thine enchanters, and with the multitude of thy witches, in which thou travailedest from thy youth; if in hap they profit anything to thee, either if thou mayest be made the stronger. 
Thou failedest in the multitude of thy counsels; the false diviners of heaven stand, and save thee, which beheld stars, and numbered months, that they should tell by them things to coming or to come to thee. 
Lo! they be made as stubble, the fire hath burnt them; they shall not deliver their life from the power of flame; coals be not, by which they shall be warmed, neither fire, that they sit at it. 
So those things be made to thee in which ever thou travailedest; thy merchants from thy youth erred, each man in his way; none is, that shall save thee. 
