EXODUS.
Chapter 35.
Therefore when all the company of the sons of Israel was gathered, Moses said to them, These things it be, which the Lord commanded to be done. 
Six days ye shall do work, the seventh day shall be holy to you, the sabbath and the rest of the Lord; he that doeth work in the sabbath shall be slain. 
Ye shall not kindle fire in all your dwelling places by the sabbath day. 
And Moses said to all the company of the sons of Israel, This is the word which the Lord commanded, and said, 
Separate ye at you the first fruits to the Lord; each willful man and of ready will offer them to the Lord, gold, and silver, and brass, 
and jacinth, and purple, and red silk twice-dyed, and bis, and hairs of goats, 
and skins of rams made red, and skins of jacinth, and the wood of shittim, 
and oil to the lights to be ordained, and spices so that the ointment be made, and the incense most sweet, 
stones of onyx, and gems, to the adorning of the cloth on the shoulders or cape, and of the rational. 
Whoever of you is wise, come he, and make that, that the Lord commanded, 
that is, the tabernacle, and the roof thereof, and the covering; rings, and the buildings of boards, with the bars, stakes, and foundaments; 
the ark, and bars; the propitiatory, and the veil, which is hanged before it; 
the board, with bars, and vessels, and with the loaves of setting forth; 
the candlestick to sustain the lights, the vessels, and lanterns thereof, and oil to the nourishing of fires; 
the altar of incense, and the bars; the oil of anointing, and the incense of sweet smelling spiceries or spices; the curtain at the door of the tabernacle; 
the altar of burnt sacrifice, and his brazen griddle, with his bars, and vessels; the great washing vessel, and his foundament; 
the curtains of the large entry, with the pillars, and their bases; the curtain in the doors of the porch; 
the stakes of the tabernacle, and of the large entry, with their cords; 
the clothes, whose use is in the service of the saintuary; the clothes of Aaron the bishop, and of his sons, that they be set in priesthood to me. 
And all the multitude of the sons of Israel went out of the sight of Moses, 
and offered with most ready soul and devout the first things to the Lord, to make the work of the tabernacle of witnessing, whatever was needful to the adorning, and to the holy clothes. 
Men and women gave bies of the arms, and earrings, and other rings, and ornaments of their arms nigh the hand; each golden vessel was separated into the gifts of the Lord. 
If any man had jacinth, and purple, and red silk twice-dyed, bis, and the hairs of goats, skins of rams made red, and skins of jacinth, either blue, 
metals of silver, and of brass, they offered to the Lord, and the wood of shittim into diverse uses. 
But also women taught gave those things, which they had spun, jacinth, and purple, and vermilion, and bis, 
and the hairs of goats; and they gave all things by their own free will. 
Forsooth princes offered stones of onyx, and gems, to the cloth on the shoulders or cape, and to the rational, 
and sweet smelling spiceries or spices, and oil to the lights to be ordained, and to make ready the ointment, and to make the incense of the sweetest odour. 
All men and women offered gifts with devout souls, that the works should be made, which the Lord commanded by the hand of Moses; all the sons of Israel hallowed will-fully things to the Lord. 
And Moses said to the sons of Israel, Lo! the Lord hath called Bezaleel by name, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the lineage of Judah; 
and the Lord hath filled him with the spirit of God, of wisdom, and of understanding, and of knowing, and with all doctrine, 
to find out and to make work in gold, and silver, and brass, 
and in stones to be engraved, and in work of carpentry; whatever thing may be found craftily, 
the Lord hath given in his heart; and the Lord hath called Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the lineage of Dan; 
the Lord hath taught both with wisdom, that they make the works of a carpenter, of a stainer, and of an embroiderer, of jacinth, and of purple, and of red silk twice-dyed, and of bis, and that they make all things, and find all new things. 
