DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 25.
Therefore when Festus came into the province, after the third day he went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea. 
And the princes of priests, and the worthiest or the first of the Jews went to him against Paul, and prayed him, 
and asked grace against him, that he should command him to be led to Jerusalem; and they set ambush to slay him in the way. 
But Festus answered, that Paul should be kept in Caesarea; soothly that he himself should proceed more advisedly or hastily. 
Therefore he said, They that in you be mighty, come down together; and if any crime is in the man, accuse they him. 
And he dwelled among them no more than eight either ten days, and came down to Caesarea; and the tother day he sat for doomsman, and commanded Paul to be brought. 
And when he was brought forth, Jews stood about him, which came down from Jerusalem, putting against him many and grievous causes, which they might not prove. 
For Paul yielded reason in all things, That neither against the law of Jews, neither against the temple, neither against the emperor or Caesar, I sinned anything. 
But Festus would do grace or willing to give grace to the Jews, and answered to Paul, and said, Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be deemed of these things before me? 
And Paul said, At the doom place of the emperor or of Caesar I stand, where it behooveth me to be deemed. I have not annoyed the Jews, as thou knowest well. 
For if I have annoyed, either done anything worthy death, I forsake not to die; but if nothing of those is, that they accuse me, no man may give me to them. I appeal to the emperor or to Caesar. 
Then Festus spake with the coun-cil, and answered, To the emperor or To Caesar thou hast appealed, to the emperor or to Caesar thou shalt go. 
And when some days were passed, Agrippa king, and Bernice came down to Caesarea, to welcome or to greet Festus. 
And when they dwelled there many days, Festus showed to the king of Paul, and said, A man is left bound of Felix, 
of which, when I was at Jeru-salem, princes of priests, and the elder men of the Jews came to me, and asked damnation against him. 
To whom I answered, That it is not custom to Romans, to damn any man, before that he that is accused have his accusers present, and take place of defending, to put away the crimes, that be put against him. 
Therefore when they came together hither, without any delay, in the day pursuing I sat for doomsman, and commanded the man to be brought. 
And when his accusers stood nigh, they said no cause of which things I had suspicion of evil. 
But they had against him some questions of their vain worshipping, or religion, and of one Jesus dead, whom Paul affirmed to live. 
And I doubted of such manner questions, and said, Whether he would go to Jerusalem, and there be deemed of these things? 
But for Paul appealed, that he should be kept to the knowing of the emperor or of Caesar, I commanded him to be kept, till I send him to the emperor or to Caesar. 
And Agrippa said to Festus, I myself would hear the man. And he said, Tomorrow thou shalt hear him. 
And on the tother day, when Agrippa and Bernice came with great desire, or pride of state, and entered into the auditorium, with tribunes and the principal men of the city, when Festus bade, Paul was brought. 
And Festus said, King Agrippa, and all men that be with us, ye see this man, of which all the multitude of Jews prayed me at Jerusalem, and asked, and cried, that he should live no longer. 
But I found, that he had done nothing worthy of death; and I deemed to send him to the emperor or to Caesar, for he appealed this thing. 
Of which man I have not certain, what thing I shall write to the lord. For which thing I brought him to you, and mostly to thee, thou king Agrippa or O king Agrippa, that when asking is made, I have what I shall write. 
For it is seen to me without reason, to send a bound man, and not to signify the cause of him. 
