ISAIAH.
Chapter 33.
Woe to thee, that robbest; whether and thou shalt not be robbed? and that despisest, whether and thou shalt not be despised? When thou hast ended robbing, thou shalt be robbed; and when thou made weary ceasest to despise, thou shalt be despised. 
Lord, have thou mercy on us, for we abided thee; be thou our arm in the morrowtide, and our health in the time of tribulation. 
Peoples fled from the voice of the angel; heathen men be scattered of thine enhancing. 
And your spoils shall be gathered together, as a bruchus, that is, fruit of locusts, is gathered together, as when ditches be full thereof. 
The Lord is magnified, for he dwelled on high, he filled Zion with doom and rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
And faith shall be in thy times; the riches of health is wisdom and knowing; the dread of the Lord, that is the treasure of him. 
Lo! the seers withoutforth shall cry, the angels of peace shall weep bitterly. 
The Ways be destroyed, a goer by the path ceased; the covenant is made void, he casted down the cities, he areckoned not men. 
The land mourned, and was sick; the Lebanon was shamed, and was foul; and Sharon is made as desert, and Bashan is shaken, and Carmel. 
Now I shall rise, saith the Lord, now I shall be enhanced, and now I shall be raised up. 
Ye shall conceive heat, ye shall bring forth stubble; your spirit, as fire, shall devour you. 
And peoples shall be as ashes of the burning; thorns gathered together shall be burnt in fire. 
Ye that be far, hear what things I have done; and, ye neighbours, know my strength. 
Sinners be all-broken in Zion, trembling wielded hypocrites; who of you may dwell with fire devouring? who of you shall dwell with everlasting burnings? 
He that goeth in rightfulnesses or rightwisenesses, and speaketh truth; he that casteth away avarice of false challenge, and shaketh away his hands from all gifts, or bribes; he that stoppeth his ears, that he hear not blood, and closeth his eyes, that he see not evil. 
This man shall dwell in high things, the strongholds of stones be the highness of him; bread is given to him, his waters be faithful. 
They shall see the king in his fairness; the eyes of him shall behold the land from a far. 
Eliakim, thine heart shall bethink dread; where is the lettered man? Where is he that weigheth the words of the law? where is the teacher of little children? 
Thou shalt not see a people unwise, a people of deep word, so that thou mayest not understand the fair speaking of his tongue, in which people is no wisdom. 
Behold thou Zion, the city of your solemnity; thine eyes shall see Jerusalem, a rich city, a tabernacle that may not be borne over, neither the nails thereof shall be taken away without end; and all the cords thereof shall not be broken. 
For only the worshipful doer, our Lord God, is there; the place of floods is strands or rivers full large and open; the ship of rowers shall not enter by it, neither a great ship shall pass over it. 
For why the Lord is our judge, the Lord is our lawgiver, the Lord is our king; he shall save us. 
Thy ropes be slacked, but those shall not avail; thy mast shall be so, that thou may not alarge a sign. Then the spoils of many preys shall be parted, crooked men shall ravish raven. 
And a neighbour shall say, I was not sick; the people that dwelleth in that Jerusalem, wickedness shall be taken away from it. 
