LUKE.
Chapter 22.
And the holiday or the holy day of therf loaves, that is said pask, nighed. 
And the princes of priests, and the scribes sought, how they should slay Jesus, but they dreaded the people. 
And Satan entered into Judas, that was called Iscariot, one of the twelve. 
And he went, and spake with the princes of priests, and with the magistrates, how he should betray him to them. 
And they joyed, and made covenant to give him money. 
And he promised, and he sought opportunity, to betray him, without the people. 
But the days of therf loaves came, in which it was need, that the sacrifice of pask were slain. 
And he sent Peter and John, and said, Go ye, and make ye ready to us the pask, that we eat. 
And they said, Where wilt thou, that we make ready? 
And he said to them, Lo! when ye shall enter into the city, a man bearing a vessel of water shall meet you; pursue ye him into the house, into which he entereth. 
And ye shall say to the husband-man of the house, The master saith to thee, Where is a chamber, where I shall eat the pask with my disciples? 
And he shall show to you a great supping place strewed, and there make ye ready. 
And they went, and found as he said to them, and they made ready the pask. 
And when the hour was come, he sat at the meat, and the twelve apostles with him. 
And he said to them, With desire I have desired to eat with you this pask, before that I suffer; 
for I say to you, that from this time I shall not eat it, till it be fulfilled in the realm of God. 
And when he had taken the cup, he did graces or thankings, and said, Take ye, and part ye among you; 
for I say to you, that I shall not drink of the kind or of the generation of this vine, till the realm of God come. 
And when he had taken bread, he did thankings or graces, and brake, and gave to them, and said, This is my body, that shall be given for you; do ye this thing in mind of me or into my commemoration. 
He took also the cup or the chalice, after that he had supped, and said, This cup is the new testament in my blood, that shall be shed for you. 
Nevertheless lo! the hand of him that betrayeth me, is with me at the table. 
And man’s Son goeth, as it is determined; nevertheless woe to that man, by whom he shall be betrayed. 
And they began to seek among themselves, who it was of them, that was to do this thing. 
And strife was made among them, which of them should be seen to be greatest. 
But he said to them, Kings of heathen men be lords of them, and they that have power on them be called good doers, 
but ye not so; but he that is the greatest among you, be made as a younger or as the younger, and he that is a before-goer, as a servant. 
For who is greater, he that sitteth at the meat, or he that ministereth? whether not he that sitteth at the meat? And I am in the middle or in the midst of you, as he that ministereth. 
And ye it be, that have dwelled with me in my temptations; 
and I assign or dispose to you, as my Father hath assigned or disposed to me, a realm. 
that ye eat and drink on my board in my realm, and sit on thrones, and deem the twelve kindreds of Israel. 
And the Lord said to Simon, Simon, lo! Satan hath asked you, that he should riddle you as wheat; 
but I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not; and thou sometime converted, confirm thy brethren. 
Which said to him, Lord, I am ready to go into prison and into death with thee. 
And he said, I say to thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow today, till thou thrice forsake that thou knowest me. 
And he said to them, When I sent you without satchel, and scrip, and shoes, whether anything failed to you? And they said, Nothing. 
Therefore he said to them, But now he that hath a satchel, take also a scrip; and he that hath none, sell his coat, and buy a sword. 
For I say to you, that yet it behooveth that thing that is written to be fulfilled in me, And he is areckoned with wicked men; for those things that be of me have an end. 
And they said, Lord, lo! two swords here. And he said to them, It is enough. 
And he went out, and went after the custom into the hill of Olives or of Olivet; and the disciples pursued him. 
And when he came to the place, he said to them, Pray ye, lest ye enter into temptation. 
And he was taken away from them, as much as is a stone’s cast; and he kneeled, and prayed, 
and said, Father, if thou wilt, do away this cup from me; nevertheless not my will be done, but thine, or not my will, but thine be done. 
And an angel appeared to him from heaven, and comforted him. 
And he was made in agony or in anguish, and prayed the longer or prayed longer; and his sweat was made as drops of blood running down into the earth. 
And when he was risen from prayer, and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for heaviness. 
And he said to them, What, sleep ye? Rise ye, and pray ye, that ye enter not into temptation. 
Yet while he spake, lo! a company, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them; and he came nigh to Jesus, to kiss him. 
And Jesus said to him, Judas, betrayest thou man’s Son with a kiss? 
And they that were about him, and saw that that was to come, said to him, Lord, whether we smite with sword? 
And one of them smote the servant of the prince of priests, and cut off his right ear. 
But Jesus answered, and said, Suffer ye till hither. And when he had touched his ear, he healed him. 
And Jesus said to them, that came to him, the princes of priests, and magistrates or the masters of the temple, and elder men, As to a thief ye have gone out with swords and staves? 
When I was each day with you in the temple, ye stretched not out hands into me; but this is your hour, and the power of darknesses. 
And they took him, and led to the house of the prince of priests; and Peter pursued him afar. 
And when a fire was kindled in the middle of the great house, and they sat about, Peter was in the middle of them. 
Whom when a damsel, or a handmaid/a handmaiden, had seen sitting at the light, and had beheld him, she said, And this was with him. 
And he denied him, and said, Woman, I know him not. 
And after a little another man saw him, and said, And thou art of them. But Peter said, A! man, I am not. 
And when a space was made as of one hour, another affirmed, and said, Truly this was with him; for also he is of Galilee. 
And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And anon yet while he spake, the cock crew. 
And the Lord turned again or And the Lord turned, and beheld Peter; and Peter had mind of the word of Jesus, as he had said, Before that the cock crow, thrice thou shalt deny me. 
And Peter went out, and wept bitterly. 
And the men that held him scorned him, and smote him. 
And they blindfolded him, and smote his face, and asked him, and said, Declare, thou Christ, to us, who is he that smote thee? or Prophesy thou, who is it that smote thee? 
Also they blaspheming said against him many other things. Also they blaspheming said many other things against him. 
And as the day was come, the elder men of the people, and the princes of priests, and the scribes came together, and led him into their council, and said, 
If thou art Christ, say to us. And he said to them, If I say to you, ye will not believe to me; 
and if I ask, ye will not answer to me, neither ye will deliver me. 
But after this time man’s Son shall be sitting on the right half of the virtue of God. 
Therefore all said, Then art thou the Son of God? And he said, Ye say that I am. 
And they said, What yet desire we witnessing? for we ourselves have heard of his mouth. 
