WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
Chapter 18.
But full great light there was to thine holy servantsor thy saints, and soothly enemies heard the voice of them, but they saw not the figure, either shape; and for also they suffered not by the same things, they magnified thee. 
And for they were hurt before, they did thankings to thee, for they were not hurt; and that difference should be betwixt them and Egyptians, they asked thee, God. 
For which thing they had a burning pillar of fire, the leader of unknown way; and thou gavest the sun, without hurting of good harbour. 
Forsooth they were worthy to want or to lack light, and to suffer the prison of darknesses, which held or kept thy sons enclosed; by which sonsor by whom the uncorrupt light of law began to be given to the world. 
When they thought to slay the young children of just men or the infants of rightwise men; and when one son was put forth, and delivered, thou tookest away the multitude of sons, that is, of the first engendered of Egypt, for the leading-over of them, and thou lostest or spoiledest them altogether in strong water. 
Forsooth that night was known before of our fathers, that they witting verily to which oaths they believed, should be more patient or steadfast. 
Forsooth health of just or rightwise men was received verily of thy people, and also destroying of unjust or unrightwise men. 
For as thou hurtedest our adversaries, so thou excitedest also us, and magnifiedest us. 
For why just or the rightwise children of good men made sacrifice privily, and disposed the law of rightfulness or rightwiseness into according; they disposed or assigned just or rightwise men to receive goods and evils in like manner, and sung or singing praisings to the Father of all men. 
But the unseemly voice of enemies sounded, and weepful wailing of beweepers of young children was heard. 
Forsooth the servant was tormented by like pain with the lord; and a man of the people suffered things like the king. 
Therefore in like manner all men by or with one name of death had dead men unnumberable, for neither quick men sufficed to bury; for why the nation of them, that was clearer than others, was destroyed in one moment. 
Forsooth of all Egyptians men not believing for benefices or benefits, promised them then to be God’s people, when the destroying of the first engendered or begotten things was first. 
Forsooth when all things held restful silence, and the night had the middle or the mean way in his course, 
Lord, thy word almighty or thine almighty word coming or going out swiftly from heaven, came from the king’s seats; 
a sharp sword bearing thy commandment not feigned, came forth, overcomer into the middle of the land of destroying or of death; and it stood, and filled all things with death, and it stood in earth, and stretched forth till to heaven. 
Then anon the sights of evil dreams disturbed them, and dreads not hoped came above. 
And another man cast forth half quick or half alive into another place, showed for what cause of death he died. 
For why sights that disturbed them, before-warned these things, that they should perish not unwittingly or unknowingly, why they suffered evils. 
Forsooth the temptation of death, that is, punishment by death, touched then also just or rightwise men, and moving altogether or a stirring of the multitude was made in desert or in wilderness; but thine ire or wrath dwelled not long. 
For a man without complaint hasted to beseech or to pray for peoples, and he brought forth prayer the shield of his service, and he alleged prayer by incense, and against-stood ire or withstood to the wrath; and he setted an end to the need, and showed that he was thy servant. 
Forsooth he overcame companies, not by virtue of body, neither by armour of power; but he remembered the oaths, and the testaments of fathers, and by word he made him subject, that travailed himself. 
For when dead men fell down by heaps, each on other, he stood betwixt or betweendead men and living, or the dead and the quick, and cut away the fierceness of burning, and parted that way, that led to quick men. 
For why all the world, by signifying either figure, was in the cloth or the priest’s cape lasting to the heels, which he had; and the great things of fathers were engraved in four orders of stones; and, Lord, thy magnificence or great doing was written in the diadem of his head. 
Forsooth he that destroyed, gave stead to these things, and dreaded these things, for why the temptation alone was sufficient to ire. To these forsooth he gave stead, that destroyed, and these things he full out dreaded; forsooth there was alone sufficient tempting of wrath. 
