EXODUS.
Chapter 24.
Also he said to Moses, Go thou up to the Lord, thou, and Aaron, and Nadab, and Abihu, and the seventy elder men of Israel; and ye shall worship afar, 
and Moses alone go up to the Lord, and they shall not nigh, neither the people shall go up with him. 
Therefore Moses came, and told to the people all the words and the dooms of the Lord; and all the people answered with one voice, We shall do all the words of the Lord which he hath spoken. 
Forsooth Moses wrote all the words of the Lord; and he rose early, and builded an altar to the Lord at the roots of the hill, and he builded twelve titles, or stones, by twelve lineages of Israel. 
And he sent young men of the sons of Israel, and they offered burnt sacrifices, and peaceable sacrifices to the Lord, twelve calves/two calves. 
And so Moses took half the part of the blood, and put it into great cups; forsooth he shedded or poured the residue part on the altar. 
And he took the book of the bond of peace, and read it, while the people heard; the which said, We shall do all things that the Lord spake, and we shall be obedient. 
Forsooth Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said, This is the blood of the bond of peace, which the Lord covenanted with you on all these words. 
And Moses, and Aaron, and Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elder men of Israel went up, 
and saw the God of Israel; under his feet, they saw as the work of a sapphire stone, and as heaven when it is clear. 
And he sent not his hand on the lords of the sons of Israel, that had gone far away; and they saw God, and ate and drank. 
Forsooth the Lord said to Moses, Come thou up to me into the hill, and be thou there, and I shall give to thee tables of stone, and the law, and commandments, which I have written, that thou teach them. 
And Moses and Joshua, his minister or servant, rose, and Moses went up into the hill of God, 
and said to the elder men, Abide ye here, till we turn again to you; ye have Aaron and Hur with you, if anything of question be made, ye shall tell it to them. 
And when Moses had gone up, a cloud covered the hill, 
and the glory of the Lord dwelled upon Sinai, and covered it with a cloud six days; forsooth in the seventh day, the Lord called him from the midst of the cloud; 
forsooth the likeness of the glory of the Lord was as fire burning on the top of the hill in the sight of the sons of Israel. 
And Moses entered into the midst of the cloud, and went up into the hill, and he was there forty days and forty nights. 
