ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 21.
Son, thou hast done sin? or Son, hast thou sinned? add thou not again; but beseech thou for the former sins, that those or they be forgiven to thee. 
As from the face of a serpent flee thou sins; and if thou nighest to them, those or they shall take thee. The teeth of a lion be as the teeth thereof, that slay the souls of men. 
All wickedness is as a sharp sword on either side; health is not to the wound thereof. 
Chidings and wrongs shall destroy chattel or substance; and an house that is over-rich, shall be destroyed by pride; so the chattel or the substance of a proud man shall be drawn up by the root. 
The prayer of a poor man shall come from the mouth unto the ears of God; and doom shall come to him hastily. 
He that hateth reproving or chastising, is in a step of the sinner; and he that dreadeth God, shall be turned or converted to his heart. 
A mighty man with an hardy tongue is known afar; and a witting man knoweth how to keep himself or to slide from that man. 
He that buildeth his house with other men’s costs, is as he that gathereth his stones in winter. 
Sheaves, or stubble or flax tops, gathered together is the synagogue of sinners; and the ending of them is the flame of fire. 
The way of sinners is set alto-gether or planted with stones; and in the end of them be hellsor hell, and darknesses, and pains. 
He that keepeth rightfulness, shall hold the wit thereof. The perfection of God’s dread is wisdom and wit. 
He shall not be taught, which is not wise in good. Forsooth unwisdom is, which is plenteous or aboundeth in evil; and wit is not or there is not wit, where is bitterness. 
The knowing of a wise man shall be plenteous or abound as flowing water; and the counsel of him dwelleth as a well of life. 
The heart of a fool is as a broken vessel; and it shall not hold any wisdom. 
Whatever wise word a knowing man heareth, he shall praise it, and lay to. A lecherous man heard, and it shall displease him; and he shall cast or throw it away behind his back. 
The telling of a fool is as a burden in the way; for why grace shall be found in the lips of a wise man. 
The mouth of a prudent man is sought in the church; and men shall think his words in their hearts. 
As an house destroyed, so is wisdom to a fool; and the knowing of an unwise man is words that may not be told out or untellable. 
Stocks in the feet is teaching or doctrine to a fool; and as bonds of hands on the right hand. 
A fool enhanceth his voice in laughing; but a wise man shall laugh scarcely still. 
Teaching is a golden ornament to a prudent man; and as an ornament of the arm or an arm-circle in the right arm. 
The foot of a fool is light into the house of a neighbour; and a wise man shall be ashamed of the person of a mighty man. 
A fool beholdeth from the win-dow into the house; but a learned man shall stand withoutforth. 
It is folly of a man to hearken by the door; and a prudent man shall be grieved by despising or with strife. 
The lips of unprudent men shall tell fond things or follies; but the words of prudent men shall be weighed in a balance. 
The heart of fools is in their mouth; and the mouth of wise men is in their heart. 
When a wicked man curseth the devil, he curseth his own soul. 
A privy backbiter shall defoul his soul, and in all things he shall be hated, and he that dwelleth, shall be hated; a still man and wise shall be honoured. 
