2ND SAMUEL.
Chapter 6.
Forsooth David gathered again all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand. 
And David rose, and went, and all the people that was with him of the men of Judah, to bring the ark of God, on which the name of the Lord of hosts, sitting in cherubim on that ark, was called. 
And they putted or put the ark of God on a new wain, and they took it from the house of Abinadab, that was in Gibeah. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drove the new wain. 
And when they had taken it from the house of Abinadab, that was in Gibeah, and kept the ark of God, Ahio went before the ark. 
And David and all Israel played before the Lord, in all treen instruments of melody, and in harps, and citoles, and tympans, and trumps, and cymbals. 
Forsooth after that they came to the cornfloor of Nachon, Uzzah held forth his hand to the ark of God, and held it, for the oxen kicked, and bowed it. 
And the Lord was wroth by indignation against Uzzah, and smote him on the folly; and he was dead there beside the ark of God. 
And David was sorry, for the Lord had slain Uzzah; and the name of that place was called The Smiting of Uzzah till into this day. 
And David dreaded the Lord in that day, and said, How shall the ark of the Lord enter to me? 
And he would not turn aside the ark of the Lord to himself into the city of David, but he turned it aside into the house of Obededom of Gath. 
And the ark of the Lord dwelled in the house of Obededom of Gath three months; and the Lord blessed Obededom, and all his house. 
And it was told to king David, that the Lord had blessed Obededom, and all his things, for the ark of God. And David said, I shall go, and bring the ark with blessing into mine house. Therefore David went, and brought the ark of God from the house of Obededom into the city of David with joy. 
And when they, that bare the ark of the Lord, had gone six paces, they offered an ox and a ram. 
And David smote in organs fastened to his arm; and he danced with all his strengths before the Lord; and David was clothed with a linen surplice. 
And David, and all the house of Israel, led forth the ark of the testament or of the witnessing of the Lord in hearty song, and in sound of trump. 
And when the ark of the Lord had entered into the city of David, Michal, the daughter of Saul, beheld by a window, and she saw the king skipping or hopping and dancing before the Lord; and she despised him in her heart. 
And they brought in the ark of the Lord, and setted or put it in his place, in the midst of the tabernacle, which tabernacle David had made therefore or had made ready thereto; and David offered burnt sacrifices and peaceable sacrifices before the Lord. 
And when David had ended those or them, and had offered burnt sacrifices and peaceable sacrifices, he blessed the people in the name of the Lord of hosts. 
And he gave to all the multitude of Israel, as well to man as to woman, to each a cake of bread, and one part roasted of bugle flesh, and flour of wheat fried with oil; and all the people went forth, each into his house. 
And David turned again to bless his house, and Michal, the daughter of Saul, went out into the coming of David, and said, How glorious was the king of Israel today, uncovering himself before the handmaids of his servants, and he was made naked, as if one of the knaves had been made naked? 
And David said to Michal, The Lord liveth, for I shall play, or I shall dance, before the Lord, that chose me rather than thy father, and rather than all the house of him, and commanded to me, that I should be duke on the people of the Lord of Israel; and I shall play, 
and I shall be made more vile than I am yet made, and I shall be meek in mine eyes, and I shall appear more glorious with those handmaidens, of which thou hast spoken. 
Therefore a son was not born to Michal, the daughter of Saul, till into the day of her death. 
