LEVITICUS.
Chapter 3.
That if his offering is a sacrifice of peaceable things, and he will offer of the oxen, he shall offer before the Lord a male, either a female, without wem. 
And he shall set his hand upon the head of his slain sacrifice, which shall be offered in the entering of the tabernacle; and the sons of Aaron, the priest, shall pour the blood by compass of the altar. 
And they shall offer of the sacrifice of peaceable things into offering to the Lord, the fatness that covereth the entrails, and whatever thing of fatness is within; 
they shall offerthe two kidneys with the fatness by which the guts called ileum be covered, and the caul of the liver, with the little reins. 
And they shall burn those or them on the altar, into burnt sacrifice, when fire is put under the wood, into offering of the sweetest odour to the Lord. 
Soothly if his offering is of sheep, and a sacrifice of peaceable things, whether he offereth a male or a female, they shall be without wem. 
If he offer a lamb before the Lord, 
he shall set his hand upon the head of his sacrifice, that shall be offered in the porch of the tabernacle of witnessing; and the sons of Aaron shall pour the blood thereof by environ of the altar. 
And they shall offer of the sacrifice of peaceable things a sacrifice to the Lord, the inner fatness, and all the tail with the reins, and the fatness that covereth the womb, and all the entrails, 
and ever either little rein, with the fatness which is beside the guts called ileum, and the caul of the maw, with the little reins. 
And the priest shall burn them upon the altar, into the feeding, or nourishing, of the fire, and of the offering to the Lord. 
If his offering is a goat, and he offereth it to the Lord, 
he shall set his hand on the head thereof, and he shall offer it in the entry of the tabernacle of witnessing; and the sons of Aaron shall pour the blood thereof by compass of the altar. 
And they shall take thereof, into the feeding, or nourishing, of the Lord’s fire, the fatness that covereth the womb, and that covereth all the entrails, 
and the two little reins with the caul that is on those or them beside the ileum, and the fatness of the maw, with the entrails that cleave to the little reins. 
And the priest shall burn those or them on the altar, into the feeding, or nourishing, of the fire, and of sweetest odour; all the fatness shall be the Lord’s, 
by everlasting right in generations, and in all your dwelling places, neither in any manner ye shall eat blood, neither fatness. 
