ROMANS.
Chapter 8.
Therefore now nothing of condemnation is to them that be in Christ Jesus, which wander not after the flesh. 
For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath delivered me from the law of sin, and of death, or the law of sin, and death. 
For that that was impossible to the law, in what thing it was sick by flesh, God sent his Son into the likeness of flesh of sin, and of sin condemned sin in flesh; 
that the justifying of the law were fulfilled in us, that we go not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. 
For they that be after the flesh, understand or savour those things that be of the flesh; but they that be after the Spirit, feel those things that be of the Spirit. 
For the prudence of flesh is death; but the prudence of Spirit is life and peace. 
For the wisdom of the flesh is enemy to God; for it is not subject to the law of God, for neither it may be subject to the law. 
And they that be in flesh, may not please to God. 
But ye be not in flesh, but in Spirit; if nevertheless the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. But if any man hath not the Spirit of Christ, this is not his. 
For if Christ is in you, the body is dead for sin or from sin, but the Spirit liveth for justifying. 
And if the Spirit of him that raised Jesus Christ from death dwelleth in you, he that raised Jesus Christ from death, shall quicken also your deadly bodies, for the Spirit of him that dwelleth in you. 
Therefore, brethren, we be debtors, not to the flesh, that we live after the flesh. 
For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die; but if ye by the Spirit slay the deeds of the flesh, ye shall live. 
For whoever be led by the Spirit of God, these be the sons of God. 
For ye have not taken again the spirit of servage in dread, but ye have taken the Spirit of adoption of sons, that is, sons of God by grace, in which we cry, Abba, Father. 
And that Spirit yieldeth witnessing to our spirit, that we be the sons of God; 
if sons, and heirs, heirs forsooth of God, and heirs together with Christ; if nevertheless we suffer together, that also we be glorified together. 
And I deem, that the passions of this time be not even worthy, to the glory to coming or to come, that shall be showed in us. 
For the abiding of creature abideth the showing of the sons of God. 
But the creature is subject to vanity, not willingly, but for him that made it subject in hope; 
for that creature shall be delivered from servage of corruption into the liberty of the glory of the sons of God. 
And we know, that each creature sorroweth, and travaileth with pain till yet. 
And not only it, but also we us-selves, that have the first fruits of the Spirit, and we us-selves sorrow within us for the adoption of God’s sons, abiding the again-buying of our body. 
But by hope we be made safe. For hope that is seen, is not hope; for who hopeth that thing, that he seeth? 
And if we hope that thing that we see not, we abide by patience. 
And also the Spirit helpeth our infirmity; for what we shall pray, as it behooveth, we know not, but that Spirit asketh for us with sorrowings, that may not be told out. 
For he that seeketh the hearts, knoweth what the Spirit desireth, for by God, that is, after God’s will, he asketh for holy men. 
And we know, that to men that love God, all things work together into good, to them that after purpose be called saints. 
For those that he knew before, he before-ordained by grace to be made like to the image of his Son, that he be the first begotten among many brethren. 
And those that he before-ordained to bless, them he called; and whom he called, them he justified; and whom he justified, them he glorified. 
What then shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who is against us? 
Which also spared not his own Son, but betook him for us all, how also gave he not to us all things with him? 
Who shall accuse against the chosen men of God? It is God that justifieth, 
who is it that condemneth? It is Jesus Christ that was dead, yea, the which rose again, the which is on the right half of God, and the which prayeth for us. 
Who then shall part us from the charity of Christ? tribulation, or anguish, or hunger, or nakedness, or persecution, or peril, or sword? 
As it is written, For we be slain all day for thee; we be guessed as sheep of slaughter or to slaughter. 
But in all these things we overcome, for him that loved us. 
But I am certain, that neither death, neither life, neither angels, neither principalities, neither virtues, neither present things, neither things to coming or to come, neither strength, 
neither height, neither deepness, neither any other creature, may part us from the charity of God, that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
