AMOS.
Chapter 1.
The words of Amos be these, that was in the shepherds’ things of Tekoa, which he saw on Israel, in the days of Uzziah, that is, Azariah, king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam, son of Jehoash or Joash, king of Israel, before two years of the earth-moving. 
And he said, The Lord shall roar from Zion, and shall give his voice from Jerusalem; and the fair things of shepherds mourned, and the top of Carmel was made dry. 
The Lord saith these things, On three great trespasses of Damascus, and on four, I shall not convert it, for it threshed Gilead in iron wains. 
And I shall send fire into the house of Hazael, and it shall devour the houses of Benhadad. 
And I shall all-break the bars, or locks, of Damascus, and I shall lose a dweller from the field of idol, and him that holdeth the sceptre from the house of lust and of lechery; and the people of Syria shall be translated to Kir, saith the Lord. 
And the Lord saith these things, On three great trespasses of Gaza, and on four, I shall not convert it, for it translated perfect captivity, to enclose that altogether in Idumea. 
And I shall send fire into the wall of Gaza, and it shall devour the houses thereof. 
And I shall lose the dwellers of Ashdod, and him that holdeth the sceptre of Ashkelon; and I shall turn mine hand on Ekron, and the remnants of Philistines shall perish, saith the Lord God. 
The Lord God saith these things, On three great trespasses of Tyre, and on four, I shall not convert it, for they enclosed altogether perfect captivity in Idumea, and had not mind on the bond of peace of brethren. 
And I shall send fire into the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour the houses thereof. 
The Lord saith these things, On three great trespasses of Edom, and on four, I shall not convert it, for it pursued by sword his brother, and defouled the mercy of him, and poured further his strong vengeance, and kept his indignation till into without end. 
And I shall send fire into Teman, and it shall devour the houses of Bozrah. 
The Lord saith these things, On three great trespasses of the sons of Ammon, and on four, I shall not convert him, for he carved the women with child of Gilead, for to alarge his term. 
And I shall kindle fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour the houses thereof, in yelling in the day of battle, and in whirlwind in the day of moving together. 
And Malcham shall go into captivity, he and his princes together, saith the Lord. 
