2 Corinthians.
Chapter 6.
And working together with Him, we also urge that you not receive the grace of God in vain. 
For He says: “In an acceptable time I have heard you, and in the day of salvation I have helped you.” Behold, now is the accepted time; behold, now is the day of salvation. 
We give no occasion for offense in anything, lest the ministry be blamed, 
but in everything commending ourselves as ministers of God: in much endurance, in tribulations, in hardships, in distresses, 
in stripes, in imprisonments, in disturbances, in labors, in sleepless nights, in fastings; 
in purity, in knowledge, in longsuffering, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in sincere love, 
through the word of truth, through the power of God, through the weapons of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, 
by honor and dishonor, by ill repute and good repute; as deceivers, and yet true; 
as being unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as being disciplined, and not being put to death; 
as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, and yet possessing all things. 
O Corinthians! We have spoken openly to you, our heart has been opened wide. 
You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted by your own affections. 
Now in return for the same—I speak as to children—you also be opened wide. 
Do not become unequally yoked with unbelievers; for what participation is there for righteousness with lawlessness? And what communion is there for light with darkness? 
And what agreement is there for Christ with Belial? Or what part is there for a believer with an unbeliever? 
And what union is there for the temple of God with idols? For you are the temple of the living God, just as God has said: “I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be My people.” 
Therefore “Come out from the midst of them and be separated,” says the Lord. “Do not touch what is unclean, and I will receive you.” 
“I will be a Father to you, and you will be My sons and daughters, says the Lord Almighty.” 
