Romans.
Chapter 8.
There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. 
For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set me free from the law of sin and of death. 
For what was impossible for the law to do in that it was weak through the flesh, God did by sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and concerning sin, He condemned sin in the flesh, 
so that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. 
For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. 
For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the Spirit is life and peace. 
Because the mind set on the flesh is hostile toward God; for it does not submit to the law of God, nor indeed can it. 
And those that are in the flesh cannot please God. 
But you are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not His. 
But if Christ is in you, the body indeed is dead because of sin, but the Spirit is alive because of righteousness. 
But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through His Spirit who dwells in you. 
Therefore, brothers, we are debtors—not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. 
For if you live according to the flesh you shall die; but if by the Spirit you put to death the practices of the body, you will live. 
For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. 
For you did not receive the spirit of bondage again unto fear, but you received the Spirit of adoption by whom we cry out, “Abba, Father.” 
The Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. 
And if children, then heirs—heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer together, so that we may also be glorified together. 
For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the coming glory to be revealed in us. 
For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly awaits the unveiling of the sons of God. 
For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but on account of Him who subjected it in hope; 
because even the creation itself shall be freed from the slavery of corruption into the freedom of the glory of the children of God. 
For we know that all the creation groans together and labors in birth together until now. 
And not only that, but also we ourselves having the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, eagerly waiting adoption, the redemption of our body. 
For by this hope we were saved, but hope that is seen is not hope; for why does one still hope for what he already sees? 
But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly await it with endurance. 
Likewise the Spirit also helps in our weaknesses. For we do not know what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with inexpressible groanings. 
But He that searches the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit is, because He intercedes on behalf of the saints according to the will of God. 
And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to His purpose. 
Because whom He foreknew, He also predestined to be conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be the firstborn among many brothers. 
Moreover whom He predestined, these He also called; and whom He called, these He also justified; and whom He justified, these He also glorified. 
What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? 
He who did not spare His own Son, but gave Him up on behalf of us all, how shall He not with Him also freely give us all things? 
Who shall bring an accusation against God's elect? It is God who justifies. 
Who is he that condemns? Christ is the One having died, but rather also having been raised, who is even at the right hand of God, who also intercedes on our behalf. 
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? 
As it is written: “For Your sake we are put to death the whole day long; we are accounted as sheep for slaughter.” 
But in all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us. 
For I am convinced that neither death nor life, nor angels nor principalities nor powers, nor things present nor things to come, 
nor height nor depth, nor anything else in creation, shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
