Acts.
Chapter 24.
Now after five days Ananias the high priest came down with the elders and a certain attorney named Tertullus, who made known to the governor the charges against Paul. 
And when he had been called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying: “Attaining much peace by you and successes coming about for this nation by your foresight, 
both in everything and everywhere we accept it, most excellent Felix, with all thanksgiving. 
But that I not weary you any longer, I beseech you to hear us briefly in your graciousness. 
For we have found this man to be a plague, and one causing discord among all the Jews throughout the world, and a leader of the Nazarenes sect, 
who also attempted to profane the temple, whom we also arrested, 
(This verse omitted in Majority Text) 
from whom you will be able, having judged him yourself, to learn about all these things of which we are accusing him.” 
And the Jews also joined in the attack, asserting that these things were so. 
But Paul answered (the governor, having nodded for him to speak): “Knowing that you have been a judge of this nation for many years, the more cheerfully I defend the things concerning myself, 
because you being able to know that it has not been more than twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem. 
And they did not find me with anyone in the temple disputing, or inciting a crowd to rise up, neither in the synagogues nor in the city. 
Nor are they able to prove against me the things about which they are now accusing me. 
But I confess this to you, that according to the Way which they call a sect, so I worship the God of my fathers, believing in all things which are written throughout the Law and in the Prophets, 
having hope in God, which even they themselves are waiting for, that there is going to be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the unjust. 
And in this I myself am engaging, having a conscience blameless toward God and men through everything. 
“And after many years I arrived to bring alms and offerings to my nation, 
among whom some Jews from Asia found me, having been purified in the temple, not with a crowd nor with turmoil, 
who ought to be present before you and to make accusation if anything they might have against me. 
Or let these themselves say what wrong they found in me, when I stood before the council, 
unless it is because of this one statement which I cried out, standing among them, ‘Concerning the resurrection of the dead I am being judged by you today.’ ” 
And when he heard these things, Felix adjourned them, knowing more accurately the things concerning the Way, and said, “When Lysias the commander comes down, I will decide your case.” 
And ordering the centurion to keep watch over Paul and to let him have some liberty, and not to forbid any of his own to serve or to come to him. 
Now after some days, when Felix arrived with Drusilla his wife, who was Jewish, he sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith in Christ. 
And as he reasoned about righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix became afraid and answered, “Go away for now; but when I have opportunity I will summon you.” 
Meanwhile he also hoped that money would be given him by Paul, that he might release him. Therefore sending for him more often, he was conversing with him. 
But after two years had passed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus; and Felix, desiring to grant favors to the Jews, left Paul in prison. 
