Luke.
Chapter 8.
Now it came to pass afterward, that He was traveling through every city and village, preaching and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom of God, and the twelve were with Him, 
and certain women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities; Mary called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out, 
and Joanna the wife of Chuza, a supervisor of Herod, and Susanna, and many others who were ministering to them from their belongings. 
And when a large crowd had gathered, and the people came to Him from every city, He spoke by a parable: 
“The sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell alongside the road; and it was trampled down, and the birds of the air devoured it. 
And other seed fell on rock; and when it grew up, it withered away because it had no moisture. 
And other seed fell among thorns, and when the thorns grew up with it, they choked it. 
But other seed fell into good ground, and when it grew up, it produced fruit a hundredfold.” Saying these things He was calling out, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear!” 
Then His disciples asked Him, saying, “What does this parable mean?” 
And He said, “To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the rest they are in parables, that ‘Seeing they may not see, And hearing they may not understand.’ 
“Now this is the parable: The seed is the word of God. 
And those beside the road are they that hear; then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, lest they believe and be saved. 
But those on the rock are they that, whenever they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, who believe for a while and in time of testing fall away. 
And that which fell among thorns, these are those, who when they have heard, go out and are choked with anxieties, riches, and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to maturity. 
But that which fell on the good ground, these are such who when they heard the word, with a noble and good heart, hold on to it and bear fruit with endurance. 
“No one, when he has lit a lamp, covers it with a vessel or puts it under a bed, but sets it on a lampstand, so that those who enter may see the light. 
For there is nothing hidden which will not become manifest, nor anything concealed which will not be known and come to light. 
Therefore take heed how you hear. For whoever has, more shall be given to him; and whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has shall be taken away from him.” 
Then His mother and brothers came to Him, and could not approach Him because of the crowd. 
And it was told Him by some, who said, “Your mother and Your brothers are standing outside, desiring to see You.” 
But He answered and said to them, “My mother and My brothers are these who hear the word of God and do it.” 
Now it came to pass on a certain day, that He got into a boat with His disciples. And He said to them, “Let us go across to the other side of the lake.” And they put out to sea. 
But as they sailed, He fell asleep. And a windstorm came down onto the lake, and they were being filled with water, and were in danger. 
And they came to Him and awoke Him, saying, “Master, Master, we are perishing!” Then He arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water. And they ceased, and there was a calm. 
But He said to them, “Where is your faith?” But becoming afraid, they marveled, saying to one another, “Who then is this? For He commands even the winds and the water, and they obey Him!” 
Then they sailed to the region of the Gadarenes, which is opposite Galilee. 
And when He got out on the land, there met Him a certain man from the city who had demons for a long time. And he wore no clothes, nor did he live in a house, but among the tombs. 
And seeing Jesus and crying out, he fell down before Him, and with a loud voice he said, “What have I to do with You, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg You, do not torment me!” 
For He had commanded the unclean spirit to come out from the man. For it had seized him at times, and he was bound, kept under guard, with chains and shackles; and he broke the bonds and was driven by the demon into the wilderness. 
Jesus asked him, saying, “What is your name?” And he said, “Legion,” because many demons had entered into him. 
And he kept imploring Him that He would not command them to go out into the abyss. 
Now there was a herd of many swine feeding there on the mountain. And they kept imploring Him that He would permit them to enter them. And He permitted them. 
Then when the demons came out from the man, they entered into the swine, and the herd ran violently down the steep bank into the lake and drowned. 
And when those who fed them saw what had happened, they fled and reported it in the city and in the country. 
Then they went out to see what had happened, and they came to Jesus, and found the man from whom the demons had come out of, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and being of sound mind. And they were afraid. 
And those also who saw reported to them how the demon-possessed man was healed. 
Then the whole multitude from the surrounding region of the Gadarenes asked Him to go away from them, because they were gripped with great fear. And He got into the boat and returned. 
Now the man from whom the demons had come out was begging Him that he might be with Him. But Jesus sent him away, saying, 
“Return to your house, and tell what great things God has done for you.” And he departed, proclaiming throughout the whole city all the things that Jesus did for him. 
So it was, when Jesus returned, that the crowd welcomed Him, for they were all waiting for Him. 
And behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a leader of the synagogue. And falling at the feet of Jesus, he was imploring Him to enter into his house, 
for he had an only daughter about twelve years of age, and she was dying. But as He was going, the crowds were pressing against Him. 
Now a woman, having a flow of blood for twelve years, who though she had spent her whole livelihood on physicians, was not able to be healed by anyone, 
approaching from behind, touched the hem of His garment. And immediately her flow of blood stopped. 
And Jesus said, “Who touched Me?” When all denied it, Peter and those with him said, “Master, the crowds are pressing You hard and crowding You, and You say, ‘Who touched Me?’ ” 
But Jesus said, “Someone touched Me, for I perceived that power has gone out from Me.” 
Now when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling; and falling down before Him, she recounted to Him before all the people the reason why she had touched Him and how she was healed immediately. 
And He said to her, “Take courage, daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace.” 
While He was still speaking, someone came from the ruler of the synagogue's house, saying to him, “Your daughter has died. Do not trouble the Teacher.” 
But when Jesus heard it, He answered him, saying, “Do not be afraid; only believe, and she will be healed.” 
When He came into the house, He permitted no one to enter except Peter, John, and James, and the father and mother of the child. 
Now all were weeping and mourning for her; but He said, “Do not weep; she is not dead, but asleep.” 
And they were ridiculing Him, knowing that she had died. 
But He sent them all outside, and having grasped her hand, He called, saying, “Child, arise.” 
Then her spirit returned, and she arose immediately. And He commanded something to be given to her to eat. 
And her parents were amazed, but He charged them to tell no one what had happened. 
