James.
Chapter 3.
My brothers, let not many become teachers, knowing that we shall receive greater judgment. 
For we all stumble in many ways. If anyone does not stumble in word, he is a mature man, able also to bridle the whole body. 
Consider that we put bits in horses' mouths that they may obey us, and we guide their whole body. 
Consider also the ships: although they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are guided by a very small rudder wherever the impulse of the pilot desires. 
Even so the tongue is a small member and it boasts great things. See how great a forest is kindled by such a small fire! 
And the tongue is a fire, the very world of iniquity. Thus the tongue is set among our members, as that which defiles the whole body, and sets on fire the course of nature; and it is set on fire by hell. 
For every kind of both beasts and birds, of both reptiles and sea creatures, is tamed and has been tamed by mankind. 
But no man can tame the tongue. It is an unrestrainable evil, full of deadly poison. 
With it we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men, who are made in the likeness of God. 
Out of the same mouth come blessings and curses. My brothers, these things ought not to be so. 
The spring does not pour forth from the same opening both the sweet and the bitter water, does it? 
It is not possible, my brothers, for a fig tree to produce olives, or a vine to produce figs, is it? Thus no spring is able to produce both salt and sweet water. 
Is there anyone wise and understanding among you? Let him show by his good conduct that his works are in meekness of wisdom. 
But if you have bitter jealousy and strife in your heart, do not boast and lie against the truth. 
This wisdom is not that which comes down from above, but is earthly, sensual, demonic. 
For where jealousy and strife exist, there is turmoil and every evil work. 
But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, willing to yield, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. 
Now the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those making peace. 
