Galatians.
Chapter 3.
O foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you, that you should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was portrayed publicly among you as crucified? 
This only do I wish to learn from you: Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith? 
Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, will you now be made perfect in the flesh? 
Have you suffered so many things in vain—if indeed it was in vain? 
Therefore He who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you, does He do it by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?— 
Just as Abraham “believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness.” 
Know therefore that those who are of faith, these are sons of Abraham. 
And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying that, “In you all the nations shall be blessed.” 
Therefore those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. 
For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse; for it is written, “Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all the things which are written in the book of the law, to do them.” 
But that no one is justified by the law before God is evident, for “The just shall live by faith.” 
But the law is not of faith, but “the man who does them shall live by them.” 
Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us, for it is written, “Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree,” 
so that the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. 
Brothers, I speak in human fashion: a covenant is man-made, yet once it is confirmed, no one annuls or adds to it. 
Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises spoken. He does not say, “And to seeds,” referring to many, but referring to one, “And to your seed,” who is Christ. 
And this I say, that the law, which was four hundred and thirty years later, does not annul the covenant previously confirmed to Christ by God, so that it make the promise of no effect. 
For if the inheritance comes by the law, it is no longer of promise; but God has given it to Abraham by promise. 
Why then the law? It was added on account of transgressions, until the seed should come to whom it had been promised; and it was commanded through angels by the hand of a mediator. 
Now the mediator is not for one person, but God is one. 
Therefore, is the law against the promises of God? By no means! For if a law had been given which was able to give life, truly righteousness would have been by the law. 
But the Scripture has confined all under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. 
But before faith came, we were kept in custody under the law, having been hemmed in for the faith which was to be revealed. 
Therefore the law has become our guardian, leading us to Christ, so that we might be justified by faith. 
But after faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian. 
For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. 
For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. 
There is neither Jew nor Greek, neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus. 
And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's descendants, and heirs according to the promise. 
