Luke.
Chapter 18.
Then He spoke a parable to them, that one must always pray and not lose heart, 
saying: “A certain judge was in a certain city, who did not fear God nor have regard for men. 
Now there was a widow in that city; and she kept coming to him, saying, ‘Give justice to me against my adversary.’ 
And he did not want to for a time; but afterward he said within himself, ‘although I do not fear God, nor have regard for man, 
yet because this widow bothers me I will give justice to her, lest she wear me out by forever coming to me.’ ” 
Then the Lord said, “Hear what the unjust judge said. 
And God, shall He not execute justice for His own elect, who cry out day and night to Him, and yet He is patient with them? 
I tell you that He will execute justice for them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will He find faith on the earth?” 
Also He spoke this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised the others: 
“Two men went up to the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. 
The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, ‘God, I thank You that I am not like other men—swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. 
I fast twice a week, I tithe on all things, as many as I acquire.’ 
And the tax collector, standing far away, would not so much as lift his eyes towards heaven, but beat on his chest, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me a sinner!’ 
I say to you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other; for everyone who exalts himself shall be humbled, and he who humbles himself shall be exalted.” 
And they were bringing infants to Him, that He might touch them; but when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. 
But Jesus, summoning them, said, “Allow the little children to come to Me, and do not forbid them; for of such is the kingdom of God. 
Assuredly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God as a little child will by no means enter into it.” 
Now a certain ruler asked Him, saying, “Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?” 
So Jesus said to him, “Why do you call Me good? No one is good except One, that is, God. 
You know the commandments: ‘Do not commit adultery,’ ‘Do not murder,’ ‘Do not steal,’ ‘Do not bear false witness,’ ‘Honor your father and your mother.’ ” 
And he said, “All these I have kept from my youth.” 
So when Jesus heard these things, He said to him, “Still one thing you lack: sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you shall have treasure in heaven; and come, follow Me.” 
But when he heard this, he became very sad, for he was extremely rich. 
And when Jesus saw that he became very sad, He said, “How hard it is for those who have riches to enter the kingdom of God! 
For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.” 
And those who heard it said, “Who then is able to be saved?” 
But He said, “These things which are impossible with men are possible with God.” 
Then Peter said, “See, we have left all and followed You.” 
So He said to them, “Assuredly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or parents or brothers or wife or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God, 
who shall not receive many times more in this present time, and in the age to come eternal life.” 
Then taking the twelve aside, He said to them, “Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man will be accomplished. 
For He will be betrayed to the Gentiles, and will be mocked and insulted and spit upon, 
and having scourged Him, they will kill Him. And on the third day He will rise again.” 
But they understood none of these things; this saying was hidden from them, and they did not know what was being said. 
Now it came to pass, as He was coming near Jericho, that a certain blind man sat alongside the road begging. 
And hearing a crowd traveling through the city, he asked what this was. 
And they reported to him that Jesus the Nazarene was passing by. 
And he shouted, saying, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!” 
Then those who went before warned him that he should be quiet; but he cried out all the more, “Son of David, have pity on me!” 
And having stopped, Jesus commanded him to be brought to Him. And when he drew near, He asked him, 
saying, “What do you desire that I should do for you?” And he said, “Lord, that I may receive my sight.” 
Then Jesus said to him, “Receive your sight; your faith has made you well.” 
And immediately he received his sight, and was following Him, glorifying God. And all the people, when they saw this, gave praise to God. 
