Matthew.
Chapter 11.
Now it came to pass, when Jesus finished directing His twelve disciples, that He moved on from there to teach and to preach in their cities. 
And when John had heard in prison about the works of the Messiah, having sent two of his disciples, 
he said to Him, “Are You the Coming One, or do we look for another?” 
Jesus answered and said to them, “Go and report to John the things which you hear and see: 
The blind receive sight, and the lame walk; the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear; the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them. 
And blessed is the one who is not offended because of Me.” 
Now as these men were going, Jesus began to say to the crowds concerning John: “What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? 
But what did you go out to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Indeed, those who wear soft garments are in kings' houses. 
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and far more than a prophet. 
For this is he about whom it is written: ‘Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way before You.’ 
“Assuredly I say to you, among those born of women there has not risen one greater than John the Baptist; but he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. 
And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and violent men seize it. 
For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John. 
And if you are willing to receive it, he is Elijah who is to come. 
He who has ears to hear, let him hear. 
But to what shall I compare this generation? It is similar to children who sit in the marketplaces and call to their playmates, 
and say, ‘We played the flute for you, And you did not dance; We mourned to you, And you did not lament.’ 
For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon.’ 
The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, ‘Look, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ And so wisdom is justified by her children.” 
Then He began to reproach the cities in which His very many miracles had been done, because they did not repent: 
“Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! Because if the miracles which were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. 
Nevertheless I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you. 
And you, Capernaum, the one having been exalted to heaven, you will be brought down to Hades; because if the miracles which were done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained to this day. 
But I say to you that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you.” 
At that time Jesus answered and said, “I praise You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You have hidden these things from the wise and prudent, and have revealed them to babes. 
Yes, Father, for so it seemed good in Your sight. 
All things have been delivered to Me by My Father, and no one fully knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone fully know the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal Him. 
Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy-laden, and I will give you rest. 
Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. 
For My yoke is easy and My burden is light.” 
