Acts.
Chapter 21.
Now when it came to pass that we had put to sea, having withdrawn from them, running a straight course we came to Cos, and on the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara. 
And having found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, we boarded it and put to sea. 
When we had sighted Cyprus, and had left it behind on the left, we sailed to Syria, and put in to harbor in Tyre, for the ship was unloading its cargo. 
And having discovered disciples, we stayed there seven days. They said to Paul through the Spirit not to go up to Jerusalem. 
But when it came about that we had completed the days there, having gone out we departed, all of them accompanying us, together with their wives and children, until we were outside the city. And having bowed our knees on the shore, we prayed. 
And having greeted one another, we went up into the ship, and they returned to their own homes. 
And completing our voyage from Tyre, we arrived in Ptolemais, and having greeted the brothers, we stayed one day with them. 
On the next day those accompanying Paul went forth and came to Caesarea, and entering into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we stayed with him. 
Now this man had four virgin daughters who prophesied. 
And while we remained there several days, a certain prophet from Judea named Agabus came down. 
And coming to us and taking Paul's belt, and binding his feet and hands, he said, “Thus says the Holy Spirit: ‘The man whose belt this is, the Jews will bind in this way in Jerusalem, and they will deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.’ ” 
Now when we heard these things, both we and the local residents urged him not to go up to Jerusalem. 
Then Paul answered, “Why are you weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die at Jerusalem, for the name of the Lord Jesus.” 
And when he remained unpersuaded, we were silent and said, “Let the will of the Lord be done.” 
Now after those days, having prepared, we went up to Jerusalem. 
Also some of the disciples from Caesarea went with us and brought with them a certain Cypriot named Mnason, a long-standing disciple, with whom we would stay as a guest. 
And when we arrived in Jerusalem, the brothers gladly received us. 
On the next day Paul was going in with us to James, and all the elders were present. 
And having greeted them, he reported one by one those things which God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry. 
And hearing this, they were glorifying the Lord, saying to him, “You see, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are who have believed, and they are all zealous for the law; 
and they have been informed about you, that you are teaching defection from Moses, to all the Jews who are among the Gentiles, saying for them not to circumcise their children nor to walk in our customs. 
What then? It is certainly necessary for an assembly to come together; for they will hear that you have come. 
Therefore do this, which we say to you: There are four men with us who have taken a vow upon themselves. 
Take them and purify yourself with them, and pay for them that they may have their heads shaved, and that all may know that those things of which they have been informed about you are nothing, but that you are agreeing with and keeping the law yourself. 
But as for the Gentile believers, we wrote, having judged that they should keep no such thing, except that they should keep themselves from things offered to idols, from blood, and from anything strangled, and from sexual immorality.” 
Then Paul, having taken the men, on the next day having been purified with them, entered into the temple, thus giving notice to the completion of the days of the purification, until the time when the offering was offered in behalf of each one of them. 
Now when the seven days were about to be completed, the Jews from Asia, seeing him in the temple, were stirring up all the crowd and put their hands on him, 
crying out, “Men of Israel, help us! This is the man who is teaching all people everywhere against the people and the Law and this place; and furthermore he has brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place.” 
For they had seen Trophimus the Ephesian in the city with him, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple. 
And all the city was aroused; and there was a mob forming among the people, and taking hold of Paul they were dragging him outside the temple; and immediately the doors were shut. 
And seeking to kill him, a report went up to the commander of the garrison that all Jerusalem had been stirred up, 
who immediately having taken along soldiers and centurions, ran down among them. And when they saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul. 
And the commander, approaching, took hold of him, and ordered him to be bound with two chains; and he was inquiring who he might be and what he had done. 
But others among the crowd were crying out one thing and some another; and because he was unable to ascertain the truth because of the noise, he commanded him to be brought into the barracks. 
But when he arrived at the stairs, he had to be carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd. 
For the multitude of the people was following, calling out, “Take him away!” 
Then as Paul was about to be led into the barracks, he said to the commander, “Is it permitted for me to speak to you?” And he said, “Do you know Greek? 
Are you not then the Egyptian who rose up before these days, and led forth the four thousand men of the assassins into the wilderness?” 
But Paul said, “I am a Jew from Tarsus of Cilicia, a citizen of no obscure city; and I request of you, permit me to speak to the people.” 
And permitting him, Paul stood on the stairs and motioned with his hand to the people. And when there was a great silence, he addressed them in the Hebrew language, saying, 
