Romans.
Chapter 15.
We then who are strong are obligated to bear with the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves. 
Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, leading to edification. 
For even Christ did not please Himself; but as it is written, “The reproaches of those reproaching You fell on Me.” 
For as many things as were previously written, were written for our own instruction, that through the patience and encouragement of the Scriptures we may have hope. 
Now may the God of patience and encouragement grant you to be like-minded among one another, according to Christ Jesus, 
so that you may with one accord and one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Therefore receive one another, just as also Christ received you, to the glory of God. 
Now I say that Christ Jesus has become a servant to the circumcision for the truth of God, in order to confirm the promises given to the fathers, 
and that the Gentiles might glorify God on behalf of His mercy, as it is written: “For this reason I will confess to You among the Gentiles, and I will sing praise to Your name.” 
And again he says: “Rejoice, O Gentiles, with His people!” 
And again: “Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles! Praise Him, all you peoples!” 
And again, Isaiah says: “There shall be the root of Jesse; and He that shall rise to rule over the Gentiles, in Him the Gentiles shall hope.” 
Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. 
Now I myself am confident concerning you, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness, having been filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another. 
And I write more boldly to you brothers, in part, as reminding you, because of the grace given to me by God, 
that I should be a minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God as a priest, so that the offering of the Gentiles might be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. 
Therefore I have something to boast of in Christ Jesus in the things pertaining to God. 
For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christ did not work out through me, in word and deed, for the obedience of the Gentiles— 
in mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God, so that from Jerusalem and as far as Illyricum I have fully preached the gospel of Christ. 
And so eagerly striving to evangelize not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon the foundation of another, 
but as it is written: “To whom He was not announced, they shall see, and those who have not heard shall understand.” 
For this reason I also have been hindered many times from coming to you. 
But now no longer having a place in these regions, and having a longing to come to you for many years, 
whenever I travel to Spain, I shall come to you. For I hope while traveling through to see you, and to be sent forward there by you, if I may be filled in part from you first. 
But now I am traveling to Jerusalem, ministering to the saints. 
For Macedonia and Achaia thought it good to make some contribution for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem. 
For they thought it good, and they are their debtors. For if the Gentiles shared in spiritual things, they are obligated also to minister to them in material things. 
Therefore, having finished and having sealed to them this fruit, I shall go by way of you to Spain. 
But I know that when I come to you, I shall come in the fullness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ. 
Now I beseech you, brothers, through the Lord Jesus Christ, and through the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in prayers to God on my behalf, 
that I may be delivered from those in Judea who do not believe, and that my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints, 
so that in joy I may come to you through the will of God, and may be refreshed together with you. 
Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen. 
