Matthew.
Chapter 3.
In those days John the Baptist arrived preaching in the wilderness of Judea, 
and saying, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand!” 
For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, saying: “A voice of one crying in the wilderness: ‘Prepare the way of the Lord; make His paths straight.’ ” 
And John himself had his clothing made from camel's hair, with a leather belt around his waist; and his food was locusts and wild honey. 
Then Jerusalem, and all Judea, and all the region around the Jordan were going out to him 
and they were being baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins. 
But seeing many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, “Brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the coming wrath? 
Therefore produce fruits worthy of repentance, 
and do not think to say among yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father.’ For I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham out of these stones. 
But even now, the ax is laid to the root of the trees. Therefore every tree not producing good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire. 
I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance, but He who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit, 
whose winnowing shovel is in His hand, and He will thoroughly purge His threshing floor, and He will gather His wheat into the barn; but the chaff He will burn up with unquenchable fire.” 
Then Jesus arrived from Galilee to John at the Jordan, to be baptized by him. 
But John tried to prevent Him, saying, “I have need to be baptized by You, and are You coming to me?” 
But Jesus answered and said to him, “Permit it now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness.” Then he permitted Him. 
And having been baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water; and behold, the heavens were opened to Him, and He saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on Him. 
And behold, a voice came out of the heavens, saying, “This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.” 
