John.
Chapter 13.
Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that His hour had come that He should depart from this world to the Father, having loved His own who were in the world, He loved them to the end. 
And after supper, the devil having already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, to betray Him, 
Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into His hands, and that He had come from God and was going to God, 
He rose from supper and laid aside His garments, and having taken a towel, He girded Himself. 
Then He poured water into a basin and began to wash the feet of the disciples, and to dry them with the towel with which He was girded. 
Then He came to Simon Peter. And Peter said to Him, “Lord, do You wash my feet?” 
Jesus answered and said to him, “What I am doing you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand.” 
Peter said to Him, “You shall never wash my feet!” Jesus answered him, “Unless I wash you, you have no part with Me.” 
Simon Peter said to Him, “Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head!” 
Jesus said to him, “He that is bathed need only to wash his feet, but is completely clean; and you are clean, but not all of you.” 
For He knew who would betray Him; for this reason He said, “You are not all clean.” 
So when He had washed their feet, and had taken His garments, He reclined again, and said to them, “Do you know what I have done to you? 
You call me Teacher and Lord, and you say correctly, for so I am. 
Therefore if I, your Lord and your Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. 
For I gave you an example, that just as I did to you, you also should do. 
Most assuredly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor a messenger greater than he who sent him. 
If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. 
“I do not speak concerning all of you. I know those whom I chose; but that the Scripture may be fulfilled, ‘He who eats bread with Me has lifted up his heel against Me.’ 
From now on I tell you before it happens, so that when it happens, you may believe that I AM. 
Most assuredly I say to you, he who receives whomever I send receives Me; and he who receives Me receives Him who sent Me.” 
When Jesus had said these things, He was troubled in His spirit, and testified and said, “Most assuredly I say to you, one of you will betray Me.” 
Therefore the disciples were looking at one another, perplexed about whom He was speaking. 
Now there was reclining on Jesus' bosom one of His disciples, the one whom Jesus loved. 
Simon Peter therefore motioned to him to inquire who it might be about whom He was speaking. 
Then, leaning back thus on Jesus' chest, he said to Him, “Lord, who is it?” 
Jesus answered, “It is the one to whom I shall give a piece of bread when I have dipped it.” And having dipped the bread, He gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. 
And after the piece of bread, then Satan entered him. Therefore Jesus said to him, “What you do, do quickly.” 
But no one reclining at the table knew for what purpose He said this to him. 
For some were thinking, since Judas had the money box, that Jesus was saying to him, “Buy the things of which we need for the feast,” or that he should give something to the poor. 
Therefore having received the piece of bread, he then went out immediately. And it was night. 
When he had gone out, Jesus said, “Now the Son of Man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in Him. 
If God has been glorified in Him, God will also glorify Him in Himself, and will glorify Him immediately. 
Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek Me; and as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I am going, you cannot come,’ so now I say to you. 
A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, that you also love one another. 
By this all will know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another.” 
Simon Peter said to Him, “Lord, where are You going?” Jesus answered him, “Where I am going you cannot follow Me now, but later you will follow Me.” 
Peter said to Him, “Lord, why can I not follow You now? I will lay down my life for You.” 
Jesus answered him, “Will you lay down your life for Me? Most assuredly I say to you, the rooster shall by no means crow till you deny Me three times. 
