Ephesians.
Chapter 5.
Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children. 
And walk in love, just as Christ also loved us and gave Himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a fragrant aroma. 
But sexual immorality and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not even be named among you, as is fitting for saints; 
neither wickedness, nor foolish talk or crude joking, which are not proper, but rather thanksgiving. 
For this you know, that no fornicator, or unclean person, nor covetous person, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. 
Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. 
Therefore do not be participants with them. 
For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light— 
for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness, and truth, 
proving what is well-pleasing to the Lord. 
And have no partnership with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. 
For it is shameful even to speak of those things being done by them in secret. 
But all things that are exposed are made manifest by the light, for whatever makes manifest is light. 
Therefore He says: “Awake, you who are sleeping, And arise from the dead, And Christ will shine on you.” 
See then that you walk carefully, not as unwise, but as wise, 
redeeming the time, because the days are evil. 
Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. 
And do not get drunk with wine, in which is dissipation; but be filled with the Spirit, 
speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, 
giving thanks always for all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
subjecting yourselves to one another in the fear of God. 
Wives, subject yourselves to your own husbands, as to the Lord, 
because the husband is head of the wife, as also Christ is head of the church; and He is the Savior of the body. 
But just as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives be to their own husbands in everything. 
Husbands, love your own wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself for her, 
in order that He might sanctify her, cleansing her by the washing of water by the word, 
that He might present her to Himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she should be holy and blameless. 
So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies; he that loves his own wife loves himself. 
For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as also the Lord does the church. 
For we are members of His body, of His flesh and of His bones. 
“For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh.” 
This is a great mystery, but I speak in reference to Christ and to the church. 
Nevertheless you also individually, let each one love his own wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respect her husband. 
