John.
Chapter 16.
These things I have spoken to you, so that you should not be made to stumble. 
They will excommunicate you; but the time is coming when everyone who kills you will think that he is offering God a service. 
And these things they will do to you because they did not know the Father nor Me. 
But these things I have spoken to you, so that when the time comes, you may remember them, that I told you. But these things I did not say to you from the beginning, because I was with you. 
“But now I am going to Him who sent Me, and none of you asks Me, ‘Where are You going?’ 
But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart. 
Nevertheless I speak the truth to you. It is profitable for you that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you; but if I depart, I will send Him to you. 
And when He comes, He will convict the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment: 
of sin, because they do not believe in Me; 
of righteousness, because I am going to My Father and you see Me no more; 
of judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged. 
“I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. 
However, when He, the Spirit of truth, has come, He will guide you into all truth; for He will not speak on His own authority, but whatever He hears He will speak; and He will announce to you things to come. 
He will glorify Me, for He will take from what is Mine and He will announce it to you. 
All things which the Father has are Mine. Therefore I said that He takes from what is Mine and will announce it to you. 
“A little while and you will not see Me; and again a little while and you will see Me, because I am going to the Father.” 
Then some of His disciples said to one another, “What is this that He says to us, ‘A little while and you will not see Me; and again a little while and you will see Me’; and, ‘I am going to the Father’?” 
Therefore they said, “What is this that He says, ‘A little while’? We do not understand what He is saying.” 
Now Jesus knew that they were desiring to ask Him, and He said to them, “Are you inquiring with one another that I said, ‘A little while and you will not see Me; and again a little while and you will see Me’? 
Most assuredly I say to you that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice; and you will be grieved, but your grief will be turned into joy. 
A woman, whenever she gives birth, has sorrow, because her hour has come; but whenever the child is born, she no longer remembers the anguish, on account of the joy that a child has been born into the world. 
Therefore you also now have sorrow; but I will see you again and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no one will take from you. 
And in that day you will ask Me nothing. Most assuredly, I say to you, whatever you ask the Father in My name He will give you. 
Until now you have asked nothing in My name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full. 
“These things I have spoken to you in figures of speech; but the time is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but I will tell you plainly about the Father. 
In that day you will ask in My name, and I do not say to you that I will beseech the Father for you; 
for the Father Himself loves you, because you have loved Me, and have believed that I came forth from God. 
I came forth from the Father and I have come into the world. Again, I am leaving the world and I am going to the Father.” 
His disciples said to Him, “See, now You are speaking plainly, and using no figure of speech! 
Now we are sure that You know all things, and have no need that anyone should question You. By this we believe that You came forth from God.” 
Jesus answered them, “Now do you believe? 
Behold, the hour is coming, and has now come, that you will be scattered, each to his own, and you will leave Me alone. And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with Me. 
These things I have spoken to you, that in Me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation; but take courage, I have overcome the world.” 
