Revelation.
Chapter 21.
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. And there was no more sea. 
Then I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, having been prepared like a bride having been adorned for her husband. 
And I heard a loud voice from heaven saying, “Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and He shall dwell with them, and they shall be His people, and God Himself shall be with them. 
And He shall wipe away every tear from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying out; neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things have passed away.” 
Then He who sat on the throne said, “Behold, I am making all things new.” And He said to me, “Write, for these words are true and faithful.” 
And He said to me, “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. I will give from the spring of the water of life freely to him that is thirsty. 
He that overcomes I shall give to him these things, and I shall be God to him, and he shall be to Me a son. 
But the cowardly and unbelieving and sinners and abominable and murderers and sexually immoral and drug users and idolaters and all who are false shall have their part in the lake which burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.” 
Then came one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls being full with the seven last plagues and spoke with me, saying, “Come, I will show you the wife, the bride of the Lamb.” 
And he carried me away in the Spirit onto a great and high mountain, and he showed to me the great city, the holy Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, 
having the glory of God. Its radiance was like a most precious stone, like a jasper stone, clear as crystal, 
having a wall great and high, having twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written on them, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel: 
three gates on the east, three gates on the north, three gates on the south, and three gates on the west. 
And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. 
And he who spoke with me had a measure, a golden reed, so that he might measure the city, and its gates. 
The city is laid out like a square; its length is as great as its breadth. And he measured the city with the reed: twelve thousand furlongs. Its length, breadth, and height are equal. 
And its wall is one hundred and forty-four cubits, by the measure of a man, which is, of an angel. 
And the construction of its wall was of jasper; and the city was pure gold, like transparent glass. 
The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every precious stone: the first foundation was jasper, the second sapphire, the third chalcedony, the fourth emerald, 
the fifth sardonyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the eleventh jacinth, and the twelfth amethyst. 
The twelve gates are twelve pearls: each one of the gates was made of one pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass. 
But I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God Almighty is its temple, also the Lamb. 
The city had no need of the sun nor of the moon to shine, for the very glory of God illuminated it, and its lamp is the Lamb. 
And the nations shall walk in its light, and the kings of the earth shall bring to it the glory and honor of the nations into it. 
And its gates shall by no means be closed by day, for night shall not exist there. 
And they shall bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it, so that they may enter. 
But there shall by no means enter into it anything unclean, nor shall the abominable or liars enter, but only those who are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. 
