Romans.
Chapter 3.
What then is the superiority of the Jew, or what is the profit of circumcision? 
Much in every way! First of all, that they were entrusted with the very words of God! 
For what if some did not believe? Will their unbelief nullify the faithfulness of God? 
By no means! Indeed, let God be true but every man a liar, just as it is written: “That You may be justified in Your words, and You may prevail when You are judged.” 
But if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Surely God, the One inflicting wrath is not unrighteous, is He? (I speak as a man.) 
By no means! For otherwise how shall God judge the world? 
For if by my lie the truth of God has abounded to His glory, why am I also still judged as a sinner? 
And why not say, “Let us do evil so that good may come”?—just as we are slandered, and just as some affirm that we say. The judgment of whom is just. 
What then? Are we any better? Not at all. For we previously charged both Jews and Greeks that they are all under sin. 
Just as it is written: “There is none righteous, no not one. 
There is none who understands; there is none who seeks God. 
All have turned aside; together they became unprofitable; there is not one doing kindness, there is not so much as one. 
Their throat is an opened grave; with their tongues they deceived; the poison of asps is under their lips; 
Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. 
Their feet are swift to shed blood; 
Ruin and misery are in their ways; 
and the way of peace they did not know. 
There is no fear of God before their eyes.” 
Now we know that as many things as the law says, it speaks to those under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may be held accountable to God. 
Therefore by works of the law no flesh shall be justified in His sight, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin. 
But now the righteousness of God apart from the law has been revealed, being witnessed by the Law and the Prophets, 
even the righteousness of God, through faith in Jesus Christ, to all and upon all those that believe. For there is no distinction; 
for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, 
being justified freely by His grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, 
whom God set forth as a propitiation through faith in His blood, for a demonstration of His righteousness through the passing over of the sins having previously committed, in the forbearance of God, 
for a demonstration of His righteousness in the present time, that He might be just and the justifier of he who has faith in Jesus. 
Where then is boasting? It is excluded. Through what law? Of works? No, but through the law of faith. 
Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith apart from works of the law. 
Or is He the God of the Jews only? But is He not also the God of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also, 
since there is one God who will justify the circumcision by faith, and the uncircumcised through faith. 
Therefore do we nullify the law through faith? By no means! On the contrary, we uphold the law. 
