Acts.
Chapter 12.
Now at that time Herod the king put forth his hands to harm some from the church. 
And he put to death James the brother of John with the sword. 
And seeing that it was pleasing to the Jews, he proceeded further to arrest Peter also (these were during the days of Unleavened Bread), 
whom also seizing, he put him in prison, and handed him over to four four-man squads of soldiers to guard him, planning after the Passover to bring him again to the people. 
Therefore Peter was kept in prison; but earnest prayer was being made by the church to God on his behalf. 
But when Herod was about to bring him forth, on that night Peter was sleeping, between two soldiers, having been bound with two chains; and guards before the door were keeping the prison. 
And behold, an angel of the Lord stood there, and a light shined in the prison room; and striking the side of Peter, he roused him saying, “Arise quickly!” And his chains fell away from his hands. 
And the angel said to him, “Gird yourself and put on your sandals”; and he did so. And he said to him, “Put on your cloak and follow me.” 
And going out, he was following him, and did not know that the thing taking place by the angel was real, but he was thinking that he was seeing a vision. 
And going though the first and the second guard posts, they came to the iron gate which leads into the city, which was opened to them of its own accord; and going out, they went forward one street, and immediately the angel withdrew from him. 
And Peter, having come to himself, said, “Now I know truly that the Lord has sent forth His angel, and has delivered me from the hand of Herod and from all the expectation of the Jews.” 
And realizing this, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John whose surname was Mark, where a considerable number were gathered together and were praying. 
And when Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a servant girl came to answer, named Rhoda. 
When she recognized Peter's voice, because of her gladness she did not open the gate, but running in, she announced that Peter stood at the gate. 
But they said to her, “You are mad!” Yet she kept insisting that it was so. So they said, “It is his angel.” 
But Peter was continuing knocking; and opening the door they saw him, and were astounded. 
And motioning to them with his hand to be silent, he related to them how the Lord had led him out of the prison. And he said, “Tell these things to James and to the brothers.” And going out, he went to another place. 
Now when day came, there was no small disturbance among the soldiers, as to what had become of Peter. 
And Herod, seeking for him and not finding him, he examined the guards, and commanded that they be executed. And going down from Judea to Caesarea, he was spending time there. 
Now Herod was very angry with the people of Tyre and Sidon; and with one purpose they came to him, and persuading Blastus, the one over the king's bedroom, they asked for peace, because their country was fed from the king's country. 
And on an appointed day Herod, clothing himself with royal apparel, and sitting on the judgment seat, was delivering an address to them. 
And the crowds kept calling out, “This is the voice of a god and not of a man!” 
Then immediately an angel of the Lord struck him, because he did not give glory to God. And he was eaten by worms and died. 
But the word of God increased and multiplied. 
And Barnabas and Saul returned to Jerusalem, having fulfilled their ministry, taking along with them John also, whose surname was Mark. 
