The Second Epistle Of Peter.
Chapter 1.
Simon Peter, a bondservant and apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who have obtained like precious faith with us by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ: 
Grace and peace be multiplied to you in your knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. 
As His divine power has granted to us all things pertaining to life and godliness, through the knowledge of Him who called us by glory and virtue, 
through which have been given to us precious and exceedingly great promises, so that through these we may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. 
But also for this very reason, making every effort, provide with your faith virtue, and with virtue knowledge, 
and with knowledge self-control, and with self-control perseverance, and with perseverance godliness, 
and with godliness brotherly love, and with brotherly love, love. 
For if these things belong to you and are increasing, it makes you neither barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
For he who lacks these things is blind, being shortsighted, having forgotten the cleansing of his past sins. 
Therefore, brothers, be even more diligent to make your calling and election sure, for by doing these things you shall by no means stumble at any time. 
For in this way the entrance will be supplied to you richly into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. 
Therefore I shall not neglect to constantly remind you concerning these things, although you know and have been established in the present truth. 
But I consider it right, as long as I am in this tent, to stir you up by a reminder, 
knowing that the putting off of my tent is soon, just as our Lord Jesus Christ has made clear to me. 
And I will make an effort also, whenever necessary, to cause you to have a reminder of these things after my departure. 
For we did not follow craftily devised fables when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but rather became eyewitnesses of His majesty. 
For He received from God the Father honor and glory when a voice was brought to Him such as this by the Magnificent Glory: “This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.” 
And we heard this voice being uttered from heaven, when we were with Him on the holy mountain. 
And we have a more sure word of prophecy, which you do well to heed, as a lamp that shines in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts; 
knowing this first, that no prophecy of Scripture comes about from one's own interpretation, 
for prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke, being brought along by the Holy Spirit. 
