Acts.
Chapter 8.
Now Saul was agreeing with them in his murder. And in that day there arose a great persecution against the church which was in Jerusalem; and they all were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. 
And godly men buried Stephen, and they mourned deeply for him. 
But Saul was doing injury to the church, going in from house to house, and dragging away both men and women, and putting them in prison. 
Therefore those who were scattered went about preaching the word. 
And Philip, going down to a city of Samaria, was preaching to them the Christ. 
And the crowds with one accord gave heed to the things spoken by Philip, hearing and seeing the signs which he was doing. 
For many of those having unclean spirits had cried out with a loud voice, and the spirits came out; and many who were paralyzed and lame were healed. 
And there was great joy in that city. 
Now a certain man named Simon was previously in the city practicing magic and astounding the people of Samaria, claiming himself to be someone great, 
to whom they gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, “This man is the great power of God.” 
But they gave heed to him because of the long time that he had astonished them with the magic arts. 
But when they believed Philip as he preached the good news of the things concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. 
Then Simon himself also believed; and having been baptized, he was continuing with Philip, and observing miracles and signs occurring, he was astounded. 
Now when the apostles who were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent to them Peter and John, 
who, coming down, prayed concerning them in order that they might receive the Holy Spirit. 
For He had not yet fallen upon any of them, but they had only been baptized in the name of Christ Jesus. 
Then they laid hands upon them, and they received the Holy Spirit. 
Now when Simon observed that by the laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Spirit was given, he offered them money, 
saying, “Give me this power also, that on whom ever I lay my hands he may receive the Holy Spirit.” 
But Peter said to him, “Your money perish with you, because you thought to acquire the gift of God with money! 
You have neither part nor portion in this matter, for your heart is not right before God. 
Repent therefore from this your wickedness, and make petition to God, if perhaps the intent of your heart will be forgiven you. 
For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and the bond of unrighteousness.” 
Then Simon answered and said, “Pray to the Lord for me, that none of the things of which you have spoken may come upon me.” 
Then solemnly bearing witness to and speaking the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans. 
Now an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, “Get up and go toward the south on the road which goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza.” This is desolate. 
So he got up and went; and behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch, a court official of Candace the queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasury, and had come to Jerusalem to worship, 
and he was returning. And sitting upon his chariot, he was reading the prophet Isaiah. 
Then the Spirit said to Philip, “Go near, and join yourself to this chariot.” 
And Phillip, running up to it, heard him reading the prophet Isaiah, and said, “Do you understand what you are reading?” 
And he said, “How can I, unless someone helps me?” And he urged Philip to come up and sit with him. 
Now the portion of the Scripture which he was reading was this: “He was led as a sheep to the slaughter; and as a lamb before its shearer is silent, so He opened not His mouth. 
In His humiliation His justice was taken away, and who will recount His generation? For His life is taken away from the earth.” 
So the eunuch answered Philip and said, “Please tell me, of whom does the prophet say this; of himself, or of someone else?” 
And Philip, opening his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture, preached the good news about Jesus to him. 
Now as they were going down the road, they came upon some water. And the eunuch said, “Behold, here is water: what prevents me from being baptized?” 
And he ordered the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, both Phillip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. 
Now when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught up Philip, and the eunuch did not see him any longer; and he went on his way rejoicing. 
But Philip was found at Azotus. And as he passed through, he preached the gospel to all the cities until he came to Caesarea. 
