Ephesians.
Chapter 2.
And you He made alive, who were dead in transgressions and sins, 
in which you formerly walked according to the age of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience, 
among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the senses, and were by nature children of wrath, as also the rest. 
But God, who is rich in mercy, because of His great love with which He loved us, 
even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you have been saved), 
and raised us up together, and seated us together in the heavenlies in Christ Jesus, 
that in the coming ages He might show the surpassing riches of His grace in His kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. 
For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God, 
not of works, so that no one may boast. 
For we are His handiwork, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. 
Therefore remember that you, once Gentiles in the flesh, who are called Uncircumcision by what is called the Circumcision made by hands in the flesh, 
that at that time you were separated from Christ, being estranged from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, not having hope and without God in the world. 
But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far away have been brought near by the blood of Christ. 
For He Himself is our peace, who has made both groups one, and has destroyed the dividing wall of separation, 
having abolished in His flesh the enmity, that is, the law of commandments contained in ordinances, that He might create in Himself one new man from the two, thus establishing peace, 
and that He might reconcile them both to God in one body through the cross, putting to death the enmity in Himself. 
And having come, He preached peace to you who were far away and to those who were near. 
For through Him we both have access by one Spirit to the Father. 
So then, you are no longer strangers and aliens, but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, 
being built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone, 
in whom the whole building, being fitted together, is growing into a holy temple in the Lord, 
in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. 
