Acts.
Chapter 28.
And when they were rescued, then they learned that the island was called Malta. 
And the natives were showing us extraordinary kindness; for having kindled a fire they accepted us all into their society, because of the rain which had begun, and because of the cold. 
But when Paul had gathered a large bundle of sticks and put them on the fire, a viper having come out because of the heat, fastened on his hand. 
And when the natives saw the creature hanging from his hand, they said to one another, “Certainly this man is a murderer, whom though he was rescued from the sea, justice does not permit to continue living.” 
Then, having shaken off the creature into the fire, he suffered nothing harmful. 
And they were expecting him to be about to swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But after they had waited for a long time and observed nothing unusual happening to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god. 
Now in the areas around that place were pieces of land belonging to the leading citizen of the island, named Publius, who welcomed us, and received us hospitably as guests for three days. 
And it came to pass that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever and dysentery, to whom Paul came in and prayed, and laying his hands on him, healed him. 
Then after this happened, also the rest who were ill on the island were coming to him and were being healed, 
who also honored us with many honors, and when we put to sea, they gave us the things that we needed. 
Now after three months we put to sea in a ship that had wintered on the island, belonging to Alexandria, with the figurehead of the Twin Brothers. 
And putting in to harbor at Syracuse, we stayed there three days, 
from where having sailed around we arrived at Rhegium. And after one day arose a south wind, on the second day we came to Puteoli, 
where having found brothers, we were urged by them to stay for seven days; and so we came to Rome. 
And from there the brothers, when they heard about our circumstances, they came to meet with us as far as Appii Forum and Three Inns, whom when Paul saw, he gave thanks to God and took courage. 
Now when we came to Rome, the centurion handed over the prisoners to the captain of the guard; but Paul was allowed to stay by himself with the soldier guarding him. 
And it came to pass after three days that Paul called together those who were prominent among the Jews; and when they had come together, he said to them: “Men, brothers, though I have done nothing against the people or the customs of our forefathers, yet I was handed over as a prisoner from Jerusalem, into the hands of the Romans, 
who, when they had examined me, were wanting to release me because there was no cause for my case. 
But when the Jews spoke in opposition, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar, not that I had anything of which to accuse my nation. 
Therefore for this reason I have requested you, to see and to speak to you, for because of the hope of Israel I am wearing this chain.” 
Then they said to him, “We neither received letters from Judea concerning you, nor have any of the brothers who arrived report or speak anything evil about you. 
But we request to hear from you the things which you think; for concerning this sect, it is known to us that everywhere it is spoken against.” 
And having appointed for him a day, many came to him at his house, to whom he was explaining and solemnly testifying to the kingdom of God, and persuading them of the things concerning Jesus from both the Law of Moses and from the Prophets, from morning till evening. 
And some were persuaded by the things being said, but others refused to believe. 
And being in disagreement with one another, they went away after Paul had said one word: “The Holy Spirit spoke rightly through Isaiah the prophet to our fathers, 
saying, ‘Go to this people and say: “Hearing you will hear, and by no means understand; and seeing you shall see, and by no means perceive; 
For the hearts of this people has become dull. Their ears are hard of hearing, and their eyes have closed, lest they should see with their eyes and they should hear with their ears, lest they should understand with their heart and turn back, so that I should heal them.” ’ 
“Therefore let it be known to you that the salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles, and they will hear it!” 
And when he had said these things, the Jews went away, having a great dispute among themselves. 
Then Paul remained two full years in his own rented house, and he was receiving all those who were coming to him, 
preaching the kingdom of God and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness, without hindrance. 
