Philippians.
Chapter 2.
Therefore if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and acts of compassion, 
complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being united in spirit, intent on one purpose, 
doing nothing according to selfish ambition or conceit, but with humility, regarding one another as being better than yourselves. 
Let each of you look out not only for his own concerns, but also for the concerns of others. 
Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus, 
who, existing in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, 
but made Himself of no reputation, taking the form of a bondservant, and coming to be in the likeness of men. 
And being found in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself, becoming obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. 
Therefore God also has highly exalted Him, and has bestowed on Him the name which is above every name, 
that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, 
and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. 
So then, my beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling; 
for it is God who is at work in you, both to will and to do for His good pleasure. 
Do all things without grumbling and disputing, 
in order that you may become blameless and innocent, children of God above reproach in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation, among whom you shine as light bearers in the world, 
holding fast the word of life, so that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain or labored in vain. 
But even if I am being poured upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice; and I rejoice with you all. 
Likewise you also rejoice, and rejoice together with me. 
Now I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be encouraged when I learn of your circumstances. 
For I have no one like-minded, who will be genuinely concerned about your circumstances. 
For all seek their own interests, not the things of Christ Jesus. 
And you know his approved character, that as a child with his father he served with me as a slave for the gospel. 
Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I may see how my circumstances go. 
But I trust in the Lord that I myself will also come shortly. 
Yet I considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker, and fellow soldier, and your messenger and minister to my needs; 
since he was longing for you all, and was distressed because you had heard that he was sick. 
For indeed he was sick, and near death; but God had mercy on him, and not only on him but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. 
Therefore I sent him more eagerly, in order that when you see him again you may have joy, and I may be less anxious. 
Receive him therefore in the Lord with the utmost joy, and honor such men; 
because for the work of Christ he drew near unto death, being careless with his life, in order that he might fill up that which was lacking in your service to me. 
