2 Corinthians.
Chapter 9.
Now concerning the ministering to the saints, it is unnecessary for me to write to you; 
for I know your readiness, about which I boast concerning you to the Macedonians, that Achaia has been prepared since last year, and your zeal has provoked the majority. 
And I have sent the brothers, lest our boasting about you lose its justification in this matter, that just as I said, you may be prepared, 
lest perhaps if some Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we (not to mention you!) should be ashamed of this confident boasting. 
Therefore I thought it necessary to urge the brothers, that they should go before me to you, and should arrange in advance your generous gift, which you had previously promised, that this would be ready, thus as a blessing and not as grudgingly given. 
But this I say: he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. 
Let each one give just as he decides in his heart, not grudgingly or of necessity; for God loves a cheerful giver. 
And God is able to make all grace abound toward you, that in everything always having all sufficiency, you may abound for every good work, 
just as it is written: “He has dispersed, He has given to the poor; His righteousness endures forever.” 
Now may He who supplies seed to the sower, and bread for food, supply and multiply the seed you have sown and increase the fruits of your righteousness; 
in everything being made rich to all generosity, which produces thanksgiving through us to God. 
Because the ministry of this service not only is supplying the needs of the saints, but also is abounding through many thanksgivings to God, 
while through the approved character of this ministry, they glorify God for the obedience of your confession to the gospel of Christ, and for the generosity of your sharing toward them and toward all, 
and by their prayer for you, who long for you because of the surpassing grace of God in you. 
Thanks be to God for His indescribable gift! 
