Acts.
Chapter 27.
Now when it was decided that we should sail away to Italy, they handed over both Paul and certain other prisoners to a centurion named Julius, of the Augustan Regiment. 
And having boarded a ship of Adramyttium, scheduled to sail to the ports along the Asian coasts, we put to sea. Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us. 
And the next day we put in to harbor at Sidon. And Julius treated Paul kindly, and permitted him to go to his friends to find care. 
And from there having put to sea, we sailed under the sheltered side of Cyprus, because the winds were against us. 
And having sailed across the sea which is off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we docked at Myra, in Lycia. 
And there the centurion found an Alexandrian ship sailing to Italy, and he put us aboard in it. 
And sailing slowly many days, and with difficulty arriving down off Cnidus, since the wind would not permit us to go on, we sailed under the sheltered side of Crete, down off Salmone. 
And with difficulty sailing past it, we came to a place called Fair Havens, near the city of Lasea. 
Now when much time had been spent, the voyage having already become dangerous, because the Fast had already gone by, Paul recommended, 
saying to them, “Men, I perceive this voyage is going to be with hardship and much loss, not only of the cargo and of the ship but also our lives.” 
But the centurion was persuaded by the helmsman and the ship owner, rather than by the things being said by Paul. 
And because the harbor was not suitable to winter in, the majority gave counsel to put to sea from there, if perhaps they might be able to get to Phoenix to spend the winter there, a harbor of Crete opening toward the southwest and to the northwest. 
And when a south wind blew gently, supposing they had attained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along close in shore to Crete. 
But not long after, a head wind like a hurricane arose, called a Euroclydon; 
and when the ship was seized by it, and not being able to face into the wind, we were being driven along, having given in to the wind. 
And running under the sheltered side of a certain little island called Clauda, we secured the skiff with difficulty. 
And having hoisted it up, they used cables for undergirding the ship; and being afraid lest they run aground in the Syrtes Shallows, they let down the driving anchor, thus they were being driven along by the wind. 
And because we were exceedingly tempest-tossed, the next day they lightened the ship. 
And on the third day we threw off the equipment of the ship with our own hands. 
And neither the sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small storm pressed on us, finally all hope for us to be saved was taken away. 
Now when they had abstained from food for a long time, then stood Paul in the midst of them and said, “Men, you should have followed my advice and not put to sea from Crete, and to spare yourselves this hardship and loss. 
And now I urge you to keep up your courage, for there will be loss of not one life among you, only of the ship. 
For there stood by me this night an angel of the God to whom I belong, whom also I serve, 
saying, ‘Do not be afraid, Paul; for it is necessary for you to stand before Caesar; and behold, God has granted you all those sailing with you.’ 
Therefore keep up your courage, men; for I believe God that it will be in the very manner it has been spoken to me. 
However, it is necessary for us to run aground on a certain island.” 
Now when it was the fourteenth night, as we were driven about in the Adriatic Sea, in the middle of the night the sailors sensed that land was approaching them. 
And having taken a sounding, they found it to be twenty fathoms; and when they had gone a little farther, they took soundings again and found it to be fifteen fathoms; 
and being afraid lest we should run aground on the rocks, they threw out four anchors from the stern, and were praying for day to come. 
Now as the sailors were seeking to flee from the ship, and letting down the skiff into the sea, in pretense of spreading out anchors from the prow, 
Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, “If these men do not remain in the ship, you cannot be saved.” 
Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the skiff and let it fall off. 
And until the time was about to be day, Paul was urging them all to receive their share of food, saying, “Today is the fourteenth day you continue waiting without eating, having taken nothing. 
Therefore I urge you to take food, for this is for your deliverance; for not a hair from your head shall fall.” 
And having said these things and having taken bread, he gave thanks to God in the presence of all, and having broken it, he began to eat. 
And they all became cheerful and also took food themselves. 
And in all we were two hundred and seventy-six persons on the ship. 
And having eaten enough, they began lightening the ship and throwing out the wheat into the sea. 
Now when it became day, they did not recognize the land; but they noticed a certain bay which had a beach, on which they resolved, if possible, to run the ship ashore. 
And casting off the anchors, they were leaving them in the sea, meanwhile loosening the ropes of the rudders; and having raised the mainsail to the wind, they began steering toward the beach. 
But they struck a reef and ran the vessel aground, and the prow became stuck and remained unmoved, but the stern was being broken up by the violence of the waves. 
And the soldiers' decision was that they would kill the prisoners, lest any should swim away and escape. 
But the centurion, wanting to rescue Paul, hindered them in their intention, and commanded that those who were able to swim to jump down first to go toward the land, 
and the rest, some on boards and others on parts from the ship. And in this way it came about that all were brought to safety. 
