Mark.
Chapter 14.
Now after two days it was the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how they might get hold of Him by guile, and how they might kill Him. 
But they said, “Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people.” 
And while He was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as He was reclining for a meal, a woman came having an alabaster flask of very costly pure nard. And having broken the flask, she began to pour it out over His head. 
But some were expressing indignation to one another and saying, “Why has this waste of the perfume occurred? 
For it was possible for this to be sold for more than three hundred denarii, and to be given to the poor.” And they were scolding her. 
But Jesus said, “Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has worked a beautiful work for Me. 
For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you wish you are able to do them good; but you do not always have Me. 
This woman did what she could; she undertook beforehand to anoint My body for burial. 
And assuredly I say to you, wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what this woman did will also be spoken as a memorial of her.” 
Then Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went off to the chief priests to betray Him to them. 
And having heard, they rejoiced and promised to give him money. So he was seeking how at some good time he might deliver Him up. 
Now on the first day of Unleavened Bread, when the Passover lamb was sacrificed, His disciples said to Him, “Where do You desire that we go and prepare, that You may eat the Passover?” 
And He sent two of His disciples and said to them, “Go into the city, and a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him; 
and wherever he may enter, say to the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says, “Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with My disciples?” ’ 
Then he will show you a large upper room, furnished and ready; there prepare for us.” 
So His disciples went away, and came into the city, and found it just as He had said to them; and they prepared the Passover. 
And when it was evening, He came with the twelve. 
And while they were reclining and eating, Jesus said, “Assuredly, I say to you, one of you eating with Me will betray Me.” 
And they began to be sorrowful, and to say to Him one by one, “Is it I?” And another said, “Is it I?” 
But answering He said to them, “It is one of the twelve, the one dipping with Me in the bowl. 
The Son of Man indeed is going away just as it is written of Him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man not to have been born.” 
And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, blessed and broke it, and gave it to them and said, “Take, eat; this is My body.” 
And taking the cup and giving thanks, He gave it to them, and they all drank from it. 
And He said to them, “This is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many. 
Assuredly I say to you, I will no longer drink of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.” 
And having sung hymns, they went out to the Mount of Olives. 
Then Jesus said to them, “You all will be made to stumble because of Me on this night, for it is written: ‘I will strike the Shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.’ 
“But after I am raised, I will go before you into Galilee.” 
But Peter said to Him, “Even if all should fall away, I certainly will not!” 
Jesus said to him, “Assuredly I say to you, that you, today on this night, before the rooster crows twice, you shall deny Me three times.” 
But he kept saying all the more profusely, “If it is necessary for me to die with You, by no means will I deny You!” And they all said likewise. 
And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane; and He said to His disciples, “Sit here while I pray.” 
And He took Peter, James, and John with Him, and He began to be greatly amazed, and deeply depressed. 
Then He said to them, “My soul is deeply grieved to the point of death. Remain here and watch.” 
And having gone forward a little, He fell on the ground, and He was praying, that if it were possible, the hour might pass from Him. 
And He said, “Abba, Father, all things are possible for You. Take this cup away from Me; nevertheless, not what I will, but what You will.” 
Then He came and found them sleeping, and He said to Peter, “Simon, are you sleeping? Were you not strong enough to watch one hour? 
Watch and pray, lest you enter into temptation. Indeed the spirit is eager, but the flesh is weak.” 
And He went away again and He prayed, saying the same thing. 
And having returned, He found them sleeping again, for their eyes were heavy; and they did not know what they should answer Him. 
Then He came the third time and said to them, “Sleep on now, and take your rest. It is enough! The hour has come. Behold, the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. 
Rise up, let us go. See, the one who betrays Me is at hand.” 
And immediately, while He was still speaking, Judas arrived, being one of the twelve, and with him a large crowd with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. 
Now His betrayer had given to them a sign, saying, “Whomever I shall kiss, He is the One; take Him and lead Him away safely.” 
And when he arrived, immediately he approached Him and said to Him, “Rabbi, Rabbi!” and he affectionately kissed Him. 
Then they laid their hands on Him and seized Him. 
But a certain one of those standing by drew his sword and struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear. 
Then Jesus answered and said to them, “Have you come out, as against a bandit, with swords and clubs to arrest Me? 
Daily I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not seize Me. But that the Scriptures may be fulfilled.” 
Then they all forsook Him and fled. 
Now a certain young man had followed Him, having a linen cloth thrown around his naked body. And the young men seized him, 
but leaving behind the linen cloth, he fled from them naked. 
And they led Jesus away to the high priest; and with him were assembled all the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes. 
But Peter followed Him from a distance, right into the courtyard of the high priest, and he was sitting together with the attendants and warming himself at the fire. 
Now the chief priests and the whole council were seeking testimony against Jesus, in order to put Him to death, but found none. 
For many were testifying falsely against Him, but their testimonies did not agree. 
Then some stood up and were testifying falsely against Him, saying, 
“We heard Him saying, ‘I will destroy this temple made with hands, and after three days I will build another one not made with hands.’ ” 
But not even in this way did their testimony agree. 
And the high priest stood up and came forward and questioned Jesus, saying, “Do You answer nothing? What are these men testifying against You?” 
But He kept silent and answered nothing. Again the high priest was questioning Him, saying to Him, “Are You the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?” 
And Jesus said, “I am. And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power, and coming with the clouds of heaven.” 
Then the high priest tore his clothes and said, “What further need do we have of witnesses? 
You have heard the blasphemy! How does it appear to you?” And they all condemned Him to be deserving of death. 
Then some began to spit on Him, and to blindfold Him, and to beat Him with their fists, and to say to Him, “Prophesy!” And the attendants were striking Him with slaps to His face. 
Now as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came. 
And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, “You also were with Jesus the Nazarene.” 
But he denied it, saying, “I neither know nor understand what you are saying.” And he went outside into the forecourt, and a rooster crowed. 
And the servant girl seeing him again, began to say to those standing by, “This man is one of them.” 
But again he was denying it. And a little later those who were standing by said to Peter again, “Truly you are one of them; for you are also a Galilean, and your accent is like theirs.” 
Then he began to curse and to swear, “I do not know this Man whom you are speaking of.” 
And for the second time a rooster crowed. Then Peter remembered the word that Jesus had said to him, “Before a rooster crows twice, you will deny Me three times.” And when he thought about it, he began to weep. 
