Corinthians.
Chapter 12.
Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant. 
You know that when you were pagans, how you were led astray, being carried away to these speechless idols. 
Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says “Jesus be cursed,” and no one can say that Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. 
Now there are varieties of spiritual gifts, but the same Spirit. 
And there are varieties of ministries, but the same Lord. 
And there are varieties of activities, but the same God works all in all. 
But to each one the manifestation of the Spirit is given for the profit of all. 
For to one is given a word of wisdom through the Spirit, to another a word of knowledge according to the same Spirit, 
and to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healings by the same Spirit, 
to another the working of miracles, and to another prophecy, and to another discerning of spirits, and to another different kinds of tongues, and to another interpretation of tongues. 
But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually just as He wills. 
For just as the body is one and has many parts, but all the parts of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. 
For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body—whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free—and we were all given to drink into one Spirit. 
For in fact the body is not one part but many. 
If the foot should say, “Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body,” is it therefore not of the body? 
And if the ear should say, “Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body,” is it therefore not of the body? 
If the whole body were an eye, where would be the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where would be the smelling? 
But now God has set the parts, each one of them, in the body just as He desired. 
And if they were all one part, where would be the body? 
But now indeed there are many parts, but one body. 
And the eye cannot say to the hand, “I have no need of you”; nor again the head to the feet, “I have no need of you.” 
But to a greater degree the parts of the body which seem weaker are necessary. 
And the parts of the body which we consider to be less honorable, on these we bestow greater honor; and our unpresentable parts have greater propriety. 
But our presentable parts have no need. But God has united the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacks it, 
lest there be divisions in the body, but the parts care the same for one another. 
And if one part suffers, all the parts suffer together; or if one part is honored, all the parts rejoice together. 
Now you are the body of Christ, and members individually. 
And those whom God has appointed in the church are: first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, administrations, kinds of tongues. 
Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles? 
Do all have gifts of healings? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? 
But eagerly desire the greater gifts. And yet I show you a more excellent way. 
