Luke.
Chapter 22.
Now the Feast of Unleavened Bread drew near, which is called Passover. 
And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how they might kill Him, for they feared the people. 
Then Satan entered into Judas, surnamed Iscariot, who was numbered among the twelve. 
And he went off and spoke with the chief priests and captains about how he might betray Him to them. 
And they were glad, and agreed to give him money. 
And he promised, and was seeking an opportunity to betray Him to them in the absence of the crowd. 
Then came the Day of Unleavened Bread, when the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed. 
And He sent Peter and John, saying, “Go and prepare the Passover for us, so that we may eat it.” 
So they said to Him, “Where do You desire that we shall prepare it?” 
And He said to them, “Behold, when you have entered the city, a man will meet you carrying a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he goes in. 
Then you shall say to the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says to you, “Where is the guest room in which I may eat the Passover with My disciples?” ’ 
And that man will show you a large, furnished upper room; there prepare it.” 
So they went and found it just as He had said to them, and they prepared the Passover. 
When the hour had come, He reclined to eat, and the twelve apostles with Him. 
Then He said to them, “I have fervently desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer; 
for I say to you, that no longer will I eat of it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.” 
Then He took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, “Take this and divide it among yourselves; 
for I say to you, that I will by no means drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes.” 
And He took bread, gave thanks and broke it, and gave it to them, saying, “This is My body which is given for you; do this in remembrance of Me.” 
Likewise He also took the cup after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in My blood, which is shed for you. 
Nevertheless behold, the hand of him that betrays Me is with Me on the table. 
And indeed the Son of Man goes according to what is determined, but woe to that man by whom He is betrayed!” 
Then they began to discuss with one another, which of them might be the one who was about to do this. 
And there arose also a dispute among them, as to which one of them was the greatest. 
But He said to them, “The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who exercise authority over them are called ‘benefactors.’ 
But it is not this way with you; let the greatest among you, let him be as the youngest, and he who leads as he who serves. 
For who is greater, he who sits at the table, or he who serves? Is it not he who sits at the table? Yet I am among you as the One who serves. 
“Now you are those who have remained with Me in My trials. 
And I bestow upon you a kingdom, just as My Father bestowed one upon Me, 
so that you may eat and drink at My table in My kingdom, and you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.” 
And the Lord said, “Simon, Simon! Behold, Satan has asked for you, that he may sift you as wheat. 
But I have prayed for you, that your faith should not fail; and when you have turned back, strengthen your brothers.” 
But he said to Him, “Lord, I am ready to go with You, both to prison and to death.” 
Then He said, “I say to you, Peter, the rooster will by no means crow this day before you will deny three times that you know Me.” 
And He said to them, “When I sent you without a money bag, and a knapsack, and sandals, did you lack anything?” And they said, “Nothing.” 
Then He said to them, “But now, he who has a money bag, let him take it, and likewise also a knapsack; and he who has no sword shall sell his garment and buy one. 
For I say to you that this which has been written must still be accomplished in Me—the saying, ‘And He was numbered with the transgressors.’ For the things concerning Me have a fulfillment.” 
So they said, “Lord, look, here are two swords.” And He said to them, “It is enough.” 
And going out, He went to the Mount of Olives, according to His custom, and His disciples also followed Him. 
And having come to the place, He said to them, “Pray that you may not enter into temptation.” 
And He was withdrawn from them about a stone's throw, and He knelt down and prayed, 
saying, “Father, if You will, remove this cup from Me—nevertheless not My will, but Yours, be done.” 
Then an angel appeared to Him from heaven, strengthening Him. 
And being in agony, He prayed more fervently. Then His sweat became like great drops of blood falling down onto the ground. 
And rising up from prayer, coming to the disciples, He found them sleeping from sorrow. 
Then He said to them, “Why do you sleep? Rise up and pray, lest you enter into temptation.” 
And while He was still speaking, behold, a crowd came; and he who was called Judas, one of the twelve, was going before them and drew near to Jesus to kiss Him. 
But Jesus said to him, “Judas, do you betray the Son of Man with a kiss?” 
And those around Him, seeing what was about to happen, they said to Him, “Lord, shall we strike with the sword?” 
And a certain one of them struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear. 
But Jesus answered and said, “Stop right there.” And touching his ear, He healed him. 
Then Jesus said to the chief priests, the captains of the temple, and the elders who had come to Him, “Have you come out, as against a bandit, with swords and clubs? 
When I was with you daily in the temple, you did not try to seize Me. But this is your hour, and the power of darkness.” 
And having arrested Him, they led Him and brought Him into the house of the high priest. And Peter was following from a distance. 
Now when they had lit a fire in the midst of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat in their midst. 
And a certain servant girl, seeing him sitting at the fire and gazing at him, said, “This man was also with Him.” 
But he denied Him, saying, “Woman, I do not know Him.” 
And after a little while another person saw him and said, “You also are one of them.” But Peter said, “Man, I am not!” 
Then after about one hour had passed, another was firmly insisting, saying, “Surely this fellow also was with Him, for he is a Galilean.” 
But Peter said, “Man, I do not know what you are saying!” And immediately, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed. 
And the Lord turned and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how He had said to him, “Before a rooster crows, you will deny Me three times.” 
And going outside, Peter wept bitterly. 
Now the men who were holding Jesus were mocking Him and beating Him. 
And having blindfolded Him, they were striking His face and asking Him, saying, “Prophesy! Who is the one who struck You?” 
And many other things they blasphemously spoke against Him. 
And when it became day, the council of the elders of the people, the chief priests and scribes, came together and led Him into their council, saying, 
“If You are the Messiah, tell us.” But He said to them, “If I tell you, you will by no means believe. 
But if I also question you, you will by no means answer Me or release Me. 
Hereafter the Son of Man will sit on the right hand of the power of God.” 
Then they all said, “Are You then the Son of God?” So He said to them, “You rightly say that I am.” 
And they said, “What further testimony do we need? For we have heard it ourselves from His own mouth!” 
