Corinthians.
Chapter 11.
Be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ. 
Now I praise you, brothers, because you remember me in all things, and you hold fast the traditions just as I handed down to you. 
But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, the head of woman is man, and the head of Christ is God. 
Every man who prays or who prophesies with his head covered, dishonors his head. 
But every woman who prays or who prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her own head, for that is one and the same as if her head were shaved. 
For if a woman is not covered, let her also have her hair cut. But if it is a shameful thing for a woman to have her hair cut, or to be shaved, let her be covered. 
For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God; but woman is the glory of man. 
For man did not come from woman, but woman from man. 
Neither was man created for woman, but woman for man. 
Because of this, the woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels. 
Nevertheless, neither is the man apart from the woman, nor the woman apart from the man, in the Lord. 
For as the woman is from the man, even so the man is by the woman; but all things are of God. 
Judge among yourselves. Is it proper for a woman to pray to God uncovered? 
Does not nature itself teach you, that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him? 
But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory for her; because her long hair has been given to her in place of a covering. 
But if anyone seems to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor do the churches of God. 
Now in giving these instructions I do not praise you, because you are not coming together for the better, but for the worse. 
For first of all, when you come together in church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and in part I believe it. 
For there must also be sects among you, in order that those who are approved may become recognized among you. 
Therefore when you assemble in the same place, it is not to eat the Lord's Supper. 
For when you eat, each one takes first his own supper, and one goes hungry and another is drunk! 
What? Have you not houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God, and disgrace those who do not have? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise you. 
For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered unto you: that the Lord Jesus, during the night in which He was betrayed, took bread; 
and having given thanks, He broke it and said, “Take, eat; this is My body which has been broken for you; do this in remembrance of Me.” 
Likewise He also took the cup after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in My blood. This do, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me.” 
For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until He comes. 
Therefore whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord irreverently will be guilty of the body of the Lord and of the blood of the Lord. 
But let a man examine himself, and in this way let him eat from the bread and drink from the cup. 
For he that eats and drinks irreverently eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. 
Because of this many among you are weak and sick, and many have died. 
For if we judge ourselves correctly, we would not be judged. 
But when we are judged, we are disciplined by the Lord, in order that we may not be condemned along with the world. 
Therefore, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. 
But if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, lest you come together for judgment. And the rest I will put in order when I come. 
