Hebrews.
Chapter 4.
Therefore let us fear, lest while the promise remains to enter into His rest, any one of you seem to have fallen short. 
For indeed we have had the gospel preached to us just as those also; but the word which they heard did not profit those, not having been mixed with faith in those who heard it. 
For we who have believed enter that rest, as He has said: “So I swore in My wrath, they shall not enter My rest,” Although His works were finished from the foundation of the world. 
For He has said somewhere concerning the seventh day thus, “And God rested on the seventh day from all His works;” 
and again in this place: “They shall not enter My rest.” 
Therefore since it remains for some to enter into it, and those formerly having the gospel preached to them did not enter on account of disobedience, 
again He appoints a certain day, saying in David, “Today,” after such a time, just as it has been said: “Today, if you will hear His voice, do not harden your hearts.” 
For if Joshua had given them rest, then He would not have spoken afterward of another day. 
Therefore there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. 
For he who has entered into His rest also rested himself from his works, as God did from His own. 
Therefore let us be diligent to enter into that rest, lest anyone fall in the same example of disobedience. 
For the word of God is living and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intentions of the heart. 
And there is no creature hidden from His sight, but all things are naked and open to His eyes, to whom we must give account. 
Therefore having a great High Priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. 
For we do not have a High Priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but having been tempted in all respects in quite the same way as we are, yet without sin. 
Therefore let us come boldly to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. 
