1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 5.
But concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need that I should write to you. 
For you yourselves know accurately that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief in the night. 
For when they say, “Peace and safety!” then sudden destruction comes upon them, just as labor pains upon the woman that is pregnant, and they shall by no means escape. 
But you, brothers, are not in darkness, so that this Day should overtake you as a thief. 
You are all sons of light and sons of the day. We are not of the night, nor of darkness. 
Therefore let us not sleep, as others do, but let us watch and be sober. 
For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, are drunk at night. 
But we, since we are of the day, let us be sober, putting on a breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet, the hope of salvation. 
For God did not appoint us to wrath, but to the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
who died for us, in order that whether we are awake or asleep, we may live together with Him. 
Therefore comfort each other and edify one another, just as you also are doing. 
And we request of you, brothers, to recognize those who labor among you, and are over you in the Lord and instruct you, 
and to regard them beyond all measure in love, because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves. 
Now we exhort you, brothers, admonish the disorderly, encourage the discouraged, be supportive of the weak, be patient toward all. 
See that no one pays back evil for evil to anyone, but always pursue that which is good, both for one another and for all. 
Rejoice always! 
Pray without ceasing! 
In everything give thanks; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. 
Do not quench the Spirit. 
Do not despise prophecies. 
But test all things; hold fast that which is good. 
Abstain from every form of evil. 
Now may the God of peace Himself sanctify you completely; and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
He who calls you is faithful, who also will do this. 
Brothers, pray for us. 
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. 
I adjure you by the Lord for this letter to be read to all the holy brothers. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. 
