1 Peter.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, since Christ suffered for us in the flesh, you also arm yourselves with the same mind, because he who suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, 
that he no longer should live the remaining time in the flesh for the lusts of men, but for the will of God. 
For we have spent enough of our past lifetime to accomplish the will of the Gentiles—having walked in wantonness, lusts, drunkenness, revelries, drinking parties, and abominable idolatries. 
In regard to these, they are surprised that you do not run with them in the same flood of debauchery, reviling you. 
They will render an account to Him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. 
Unto this end was the gospel proclaimed also to those who are dead, in order that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but that they might live according to God in the spirit. 
Now the end of all things is at hand; therefore be of sound mind and self-controlled in your prayers. 
And above all things have fervent love for one another, because “love will cover a multitude of sins.” 
Be hospitable to one another without grumbling. 
As each one has received a gift, minister it to one another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. 
If anyone speaks, let him speak as the utterances of God. If anyone serves, let him serve as from strength, as God supplies, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. 
Beloved, do not be surprised by the fiery trial among you, taking place to test you, as though some strange thing was happening to you; 
but inasmuch as you partake in the sufferings of Christ, rejoice, in order that also at the unveiling of His glory, you may rejoice with great happiness. 
If you are reviled in the name of Christ, blessed are you, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. On their part He is blasphemed, but on your part He is glorified. 
For let not anyone of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or as a meddler in other people's affairs; 
but if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be put to shame, but let him glorify God in this matter. 
For the time has come for judgment to begin at the house of God; and if it begins with us first, what will be the end of those who are disobedient to the gospel of God? 
And “If the righteous one is scarcely saved, where will the godless and the sinner appear?” 
Therefore let those who suffer according to the will of God entrust their souls to Him in doing good, as to a faithful Creator. 
