2 Corinthians.
Chapter 8.
Now we make known to you brothers, the grace of God which has been given to the churches of Macedonia, 
how that in a great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded in the riches of their generosity. 
For I bear witness that according to their ability, and beyond their ability, they were freely willing, 
with much appeal, begging us for the grace and the fellowship of the ministry to the saints— 
and not as we hoped, but they first gave their own selves to the Lord, and then to us by the will of God, 
so that we urged Titus, that just as he had begun before, thus he would also finish this grace also in you. 
But as you abound in everything—in faith, in word, in knowledge, in all diligence, and in your love for us—see that you abound in this grace also. 
I speak not by a command, but I am testing the genuineness of your love by means of the diligence of others. 
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet on account of you He became poor, that you through His poverty might become rich. 
And I give my opinion in this: For this is profitable for you, who not only previously began doing this, but also desired to, since last year. 
And now also complete doing it; that as indeed there was the readiness to desire it, thus also there may be the completion from what you have. 
For if there is first a readiness, it is acceptable according to what one has, and not according to what he does not have. 
For I do not mean that others should be relieved and you burdened; 
but by way of equality, that now at the present time your abundance may supply their need, that their abundance also may supply your need, in order that there may be equality. 
As it is written, “He who gathered much did not have too much, and he who gathered little had no lack.” 
But thanks be to God who puts the same earnest care for you in the heart of Titus. 
Because he accepted my appeal, but being more diligent, he came to you of his own accord. 
And we sent together with him the brother whose praise is in the gospel throughout all the churches, 
and not only that, but who was also chosen by the churches as our traveling companion with this gift, which is ministered by us to the glory of the Lord Himself and to show our readiness— 
avoiding this, lest anyone should blame us in this abundance which is ministered by us; 
having regard for honorable things, not only before the Lord, but also before men. 
And we sent together with them our brother whom we often approved in many things, being diligent, but now being much more diligent, by his great confidence in you. 
If anyone inquires about Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker concerning you; or if our brothers are inquired about, they are messengers of the churches, the glory of Christ. 
Therefore show to them the proof of your love, and of our boasting concerning you, before the churches. 
