John.
Chapter 18.
After saying these things, Jesus went out with His disciples across the winter stream Kidron, where there was a garden, into which He and His disciples entered. 
Now Judas, who was betraying Him, also knew the place, because Jesus often gathered there also with His disciples. 
Then Judas, having taken the detachment of soldiers and attendants from the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with lanterns, torches, and weapons. 
Jesus therefore, knowing all things coming upon Him, went out and said to them, “Whom do you seek?” 
They answered Him, “Jesus the Nazarene.” Jesus said to them, “I AM.” And Judas, the one betraying Him, was standing with them. 
Therefore when He said to them, “I AM,” they stepped back and fell to the ground. 
Then He asked them again, “Whom do you seek?” And they said, “Jesus the Nazarene.” 
Jesus answered, “I have told you that I AM! Therefore if you seek Me, allow these men to go,” 
so that the word might be fulfilled which He said, “Those whom You have given Me I have lost none.” 
Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it and struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. And the servant's name was Malchus. 
Then Jesus said to Peter, “Put your sword into its sheath. Shall I not drink the cup which My Father has given Me?” 
Then the detachment of soldiers and the captain and the attendants of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound Him. 
And they led Him away to Annas first, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas who was high priest that year. 
Now it was Caiaphas who advised the Jews that it was profitable for one man to perish for the people. 
And Simon Peter was following Jesus, as was the other disciple. Now that disciple was known to the high priest, and entered with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest. 
But Peter stood at the door outside. Then the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the doorkeeper, and brought Peter in. 
Then the servant girl who kept the door said to Peter, “You are not also one of this Man's disciples, are you?” He said, “I am not.” 
And the servants and attendants who had made a fire of coals stood there, for it was cold, and they were warming themselves. Now Peter was standing with them and warming himself. 
Then high priest asked Jesus about His disciples and His doctrine. 
Jesus answered him, “I spoke openly to the world. I always taught in synagogues and in the temple, where the Jews always come together, and in secret I spoke nothing. 
Why do you question Me? Question those who have heard Me, what I spoke to them. Indeed they know what I said.” 
And when He had said these things, one of the attendants who stood by slapped Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, “Is this how You answer the high priest?” 
Jesus answered him, “If I have spoken evil, testify of the evil; but if well, why do you strike Me?” 
Then Annas sent Him bound to Caiaphas the high priest. 
Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. Therefore they said to him, “You are not also one of His disciples, are you?” Then he denied it and said, “I am not!” 
One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of him whose ear Peter cut off, said, “Did I not see you in the garden with Him?” 
Peter then denied again; and immediately a rooster crowed. 
Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas to the Praetorium, and it was early morning. But they themselves did not enter into the Praetorium, lest they might be defiled, but so that they might eat the Passover. 
Then Pilate went out to them and said, “What accusation do you bring against this Man?” 
They answered and said to him, “If He were not an evildoer, we would not have delivered Him over to you.” 
Then Pilate said to them, “You take Him and judge Him according to your law.” Therefore the Jews said to him, “It is not lawful for us to kill anyone,” 
that the word of Jesus might be fulfilled which He said, signifying by what sort of death He was about to die. 
Then Pilate entered the Praetorium again, and called Jesus, and said to Him, “Are You the King of the Jews?” 
Jesus answered him, “For yourself do you say this, or did others tell you about Me?” 
Pilate answered, “Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered You to me. What have You done?” 
Jesus answered, “My kingdom is not of this world. If My kingdom were of this world, My servants would fight, so that I might not be delivered to the Jews; but now My kingdom is not from here.” 
Pilate therefore said to Him, “Are You a king then?” Jesus answered, “You say rightly that I am a king. For this reason I have been born, and for this reason I have come into the world, that I should testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears My voice.” 
Pilate said to Him, “What is truth?” And having said this, he went out again to the Jews, and said to them, “I find no fault in Him. 
“But you have a custom that I should release someone to you at the Passover. Therefore do you wish that I should release the King of the Jews?” 
Then they all cried out again, saying, “Not this Man, but Barabbas!” Now Barabbas was a bandit. 
