Luke.
Chapter 24.
And on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they, and certain other women with them, came to the tomb bringing the spices which they had prepared. 
But they found the stone having been rolled away from the tomb. 
And going in they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. 
And it happened, as they were greatly perplexed about this, that behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel. 
Then, as they became afraid and bowed their faces to the ground, they said to them, “Why do you seek the living among the dead? 
He is not here, but is risen! Remember how He spoke to you when He was still in Galilee, 
saying, ‘The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise again.’ ” 
And they remembered His words. 
And returning from the tomb, they reported all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. 
It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the rest with them, who told these things to the apostles. 
And their words seemed like nonsense before them, and they disbelieved them. 
But Peter rose up and ran to the tomb; and stooping down, he saw the linen strips lying by themselves; and he departed, marveling to himself at what had happened. 
Now behold, two of them were traveling that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was about seven miles from Jerusalem. 
And they were conversing with one another about all these things which had happened. 
So it was, as they were conversing and discussing, that Jesus Himself drew near and started to travel with them. 
But their eyes were restrained, so that they did not recognize Him. 
And He said to them, “What are these words which you are exchanging with one another as you walk, and you have a gloomy look?” 
Then the one whose name was Cleopas answered and said to Him, “Are You the only stranger in Jerusalem, and do not know what has happened in it in these days?” 
And He said to them, “What things?” So they said to Him, “The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene, who proved to be a man who was a Prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people, 
and how the chief priests and our rulers handed Him over to be condemned to death, and they crucified Him. 
But we were hoping that it was He who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this, today is the third day since these things happened. 
Moreover certain women of our group astonished us, after they arrived early at the tomb. 
And not finding His body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels who said He was alive. 
And certain of those who were with us went to the tomb, and found it just as the women had said; but Him they did not see.” 
Then He said to them, “O you foolish, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken! 
Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into His glory?” 
And beginning at Moses and all the Prophets, He expounded to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning Himself. 
Then they drew near to the village where they were going, and He made as though He was going farther. 
But they constrained Him, saying, “Stay with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent.” And He went in to stay with them. 
Now it came to pass, as He was reclining to eat with them, having taken bread, He blessed and broke it, and He gave it to them. 
Then their eyes were opened and they recognized Him; and He vanished from their sight. 
And they said to one another, “Was not our heart burning within us while He was speaking to us on the road, and while He was interpreting the Scriptures to us?” 
So they rose up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and they found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together, 
saying, “The Lord is risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon!” 
And they described the things that had happened on the road, and how He was known to them in the breaking of bread. 
Now as they said these things, Jesus Himself stood in the midst of them, and said to them, “Peace to you.” 
But being alarmed and becoming fearful, they thought they saw a spirit. 
And He said to them, “Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? 
Behold My hands and My feet, that it is I Myself. Handle Me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see I have.” 
When He had said this, He showed them His hands and His feet. 
But as they still disbelieved for joy, and marveled, He said to them, “Do you have any food here?” 
So they gave Him a piece of a broiled fish and some honeycomb. 
And taking it, He ate it in their presence. 
Then He said to them, “These are the words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms concerning Me.” 
And He opened their understanding, that they might comprehend the Scriptures. 
Then He said to them, “Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day, 
and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be preached in His name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. 
And you are witnesses of these things. 
And behold, I am sending the Promise of My Father upon you; but tarry in the city of Jerusalem until you are endued with power from on high.” 
And He led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up His hands, He blessed them. 
And it happened, while He blessed them, that He was parted from them and was carried up into heaven. 
And after they had worshiped Him, they returned to Jerusalem with great joy, 
and they were continually in the temple praising and blessing God. Amen. 
