Corinthians.
Chapter 16.
Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I directed to the churches of Galatia, so you must do also: 
On the first day of the week let each one of you put something aside, storing up whatever he may prosper, in order that there be no collections when I come. 
But when I arrive, those whom ever you approve by letters, these I will send to carry your gracious gift to Jerusalem. 
But if it is fitting that I go also, they will go with me. 
Now I will come to you when I go through Macedonia (for I am coming through Macedonia). 
And perhaps I will remain, or even spend the winter with you, that you may send me on my journey, wherever I may go. 
For I do not wish to see you now in passing; but I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord permits. 
But I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost. 
For a great and effective door has been opened to me, and there are many adversaries. 
Now if Timothy comes, see to it that he may be with you without fear; for he does the work of the Lord, as I also do. 
Therefore let no one despise him. But send him away in peace, that he may come to me; for I am waiting for him with the brothers. 
Now concerning our brother Apollos, I strongly urged him to come to you with the brothers, but it was not his will to come at this time; however, he will come whenever he has an opportunity. 
Be watchful, stand fast in the faith, be courageous, be strong. 
Let all that you do be done in love. 
I urge you, brothers (you know the household of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves to the ministry of the saints) 
that you also subject yourselves to such people and to everyone who works and labors with us. 
I rejoice over the coming of Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus, for what was lacking on your part they have supplied. 
For they refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore give recognition to such men. 
The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you heartily in the Lord, together with the church that is in their house. 
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. 
The salutation with my own hand—Paul's. 
If anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema. Maranatha! 
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. 
