Philippians.
Chapter 3.
Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. For me to write the same things to you is not troublesome, but for you it is safe. 
Beware of the dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the false circumcision! 
For we are the true circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and put no confidence in the flesh, 
though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more: 
circumcised the eighth day, of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee; 
as to zeal, persecuting the church; as to righteousness which is in the law, blameless. 
But such things as were gain to me, these I have considered loss for the sake of Christ. 
More than that I also consider all things to be loss, on account of the surpassing worth of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have sustained the loss of all things, and I consider them to be rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ, 
and be found in Him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith; 
so as to know Him and the power of His resurrection, and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death, 
if in some way I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. 
Not that I have already obtained it, or have already been made perfect; but I press on, if also I may lay hold of that for which I was laid hold of by Christ Jesus. 
Brothers, I do not count myself as having laid hold of it yet; but one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forward to those things which are ahead, 
I press on toward the goal for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. 
Therefore, as many as are mature, let us think this way; and if in anything you think otherwise, even this God will reveal to you. 
Nevertheless, to what we have attained, let us walk by the same rule, being of the same mind. 
Be fellow imitators of me, brothers, and look out for those walking this way, just as you have us for a pattern. 
For many walk, of whom often I was speaking to you, and now even weeping I tell you, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ: 
whose end is destruction, whose god is their belly, and whose glory is in their shame—who are mindful of earthly things. 
For our citizenship exists in heaven, from which also we eagerly await for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, 
who will transform our lowly body, that it may be conformed to His glorious body, according to the working by which He is able even to subject all things to Himself. 
