Revelation.
Chapter 14.
And I saw, and behold, the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with Him one hundred and forty-four thousand, having His name and the name of His Father having been written on their foreheads. 
And I heard a voice from heaven, like the voice of many waters, and like the voice of loud thunder. And the voice which I heard was as of harpists playing on their harps. 
And they sang a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures, and the elders; and no one was able to learn that song except the hundred and forty-four thousand who had been redeemed from the earth. 
These are those who were not defiled with women, for they are virgins. These are those who follow the Lamb wherever He goes. These were redeemed by Jesus from among men, firstfruits to God and to the Lamb. 
And no guile was found in their mouth, for they are blameless. 
Then I saw an angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on the earth, and to every nation, tribe, language, and people, 
saying with a loud voice, “Fear the Lord and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment has come; and you shall worship Him who made heaven and earth, and the sea and fountains of waters.” 
And another, a second angel followed, saying, “Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great. From the wine of the wrath of her fornication, she has made all the nations to drink.” 
Then another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice, “If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, 
then he shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out undiluted in the cup of His wrath. And they shall be tormented with fire and brimstone before the holy angels and before the Lamb. 
And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever; and they have no rest day or night, those who worship the beast and his image, and anyone who receives the mark of his name.” 
Here is the endurance of the saints; those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. 
And I heard a voice out of heaven saying to me, “Write: ‘Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.’ ” “Yes,” says the Spirit, “that they may rest from their labors, and their works follow them.” 
And I saw, and behold, a white cloud, and on the cloud sat One like the Son of Man, having on His head a golden crown, and in His hand a sharp sickle. 
And another angel came out of the temple, crying out with a loud voice to Him that sat on the cloud, “Thrust in Your sickle and reap, for the hour has come to reap, because the harvest of the earth has withered.” 
So He that sat on the cloud swung His sickle onto the earth, and the earth was harvested. 
Then another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he also had a sharp sickle. 
And another angel came out from the altar, having authority over the fire, and he called with a loud cry to the one having the sharp sickle, saying, “Thrust in your sharp sickle and gather the grape clusters of the vine of the earth, because the grapes are ripe.” 
So the angel swung his sickle to the earth and gathered the vine of the earth, and he cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of God. 
And the winepress was trampled outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress, up to the horses' bridles, about one thousand six hundred stadia. 
