Mark.
Chapter 6.
Then He went out from there and came to His hometown, and His disciples followed Him. 
And when the Sabbath had come, He began to teach in the synagogue. And many when they heard were astonished, saying, “Where did this Man get these things? And what wisdom is this which is given to Him, and such miracles are coming about by His hands? 
Is this not the carpenter, the son of Mary, and brother of James, Joses, Judas, and Simon? And are not His sisters here with us?” And they were offended at Him. 
But Jesus said to them, “A prophet is not without honor except in his own hometown, and among his relatives, and in his own house.” 
And He could do no miracle there, except that He laid His hands on a few sick people and healed them. 
And He marveled because of their unbelief. Then He went about the villages in a circuit, teaching. 
And He called the twelve to Himself, and began to send them out two by two, and gave them power over unclean spirits. 
He commanded them that they should take nothing for the journey except a staff, only—no knapsack, no bread, nor a copper coin for their money belts— 
but to wear sandals, and not to put on two tunics. 
And He said to them, “Wherever you may enter into a house, stay there until you go out from there. 
And as many as do not receive you nor hear you, as you leave from there, shake off the dust underneath your feet as a testimony against them. Assuredly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Sodom or for Gomorrah in the Day of Judgment than for that city!” 
And when they went out, they were preaching that people should repent. 
And they were casting out many demons, and they were anointing with oil many who were sick, and were healing them. 
And King Herod heard, for His name became well known. And he said, “John the Baptizer has been raised from the dead, and for this reason the miracles are at work in him.” 
Others said, “He is Elijah.” But others said, “He is a prophet, like one of the prophets.” 
But when he heard, Herod said, “It is John, whom I beheaded; he has been raised from the dead!” 
For Herod himself had sent and laid hold of John, and bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife; because he had married her. 
For John would say to Herod, “It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife.” 
Therefore Herodias held a grudge against him and was desiring to kill him, but she was not able; 
for Herod was afraid of John, knowing that he was a just and holy man, and he was protecting him. And when he heard him, he did many things, and he would hear him gladly. 
And when an opportune day arrived, when Herod for his birthday festivities was putting on a supper for his nobles, the high officers, and the chief men of Galilee, 
and when Herodias' daughter herself came in and danced, and pleased Herod and his dinner guests, the king said to the girl, “Ask me whatever you may want, and I will give it to you.” 
He also swore to her, “Whatever you may ask me, I will give you, up to half of my kingdom.” 
And when she had gone out, she said to her mother, “What shall I ask?” And she said, “The head of John the Baptist!” 
Immediately she came in with haste to the king and she requested, saying, “I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter.” 
And the king became exceedingly sorry; yet, because of his oaths and of those who reclined with him, he did not want to refuse her. 
And immediately the king, having sent an executioner, commanded his head to be brought. And having departed, he beheaded him in the prison, 
and brought his head on a platter, and gave it to the girl; and the girl gave it to her mother. 
And when his disciples heard, they came and took away his body and placed it in a tomb. 
Then the apostles gathered to Jesus and they reported to Him all things, both everything they had done and everything they had taught. 
And He said to them, “Come, you yourselves privately, to a deserted place and rest a little.” For there were many coming and going, and they were not even finding opportunity to eat. 
And they went away to a deserted place in the boat privately. 
But the multitudes saw them going, and many recognized Him, and ran together there on foot from all the cities, and preceded them, and they came together to Him. 
And when He came out, Jesus saw a large crowd, and He had compassion on them, because they were like sheep not having a shepherd. So He began to teach them many things. 
And when it grew late, His disciples came to Him and said, “The place is deserted, and already the hour is late. 
Dismiss them, so that they may go into the surrounding farms and villages and may buy themselves food; for they have nothing to eat.” 
But answering, He said to them, “You give them something to eat.” And they said to Him, “Shall we go and buy two hundred denarii worth of bread and give them something to eat?” 
But He said to them, “How many loaves do you have? Go and see.” And when they found out they said, “Five, and two fish.” 
Then He gave orders for them all to recline in groups on the green grass. 
And they reclined in parties of hundreds and of fifties. 
And taking the five loaves and the two fish, looking up to heaven, He blessed and broke the loaves, and was giving them to His disciples, so that they might set them before them; and the two fish He divided to all. 
So they all ate and were filled. 
And they took up twelve baskets full of fragments and from the fish. 
Now those who had eaten the loaves were five thousand men. 
And immediately He compelled His disciples to step into the boat and to go on ahead to the other side, to Bethsaida, until He could dismiss the crowd. 
And having taken leave of them, He departed to the mountain to pray. 
Now when it was evening, the boat was in the middle of the sea; and He was alone on the land. 
Then He saw them straining at rowing, for the wind was against them. Now about the fourth watch of the night He came to them walking on the sea, and He intended to pass by them. 
And seeing Him walking on the sea, they supposed Him to be a spirit, and they cried out; 
for they all saw Him and were troubled. But immediately He spoke with them, and said to them, “Have courage! It is I AM; do not be afraid.” 
Then He went up with them into the boat and the wind ceased. And they were greatly astounded among themselves beyond measure, and were marveling. 
For they had not understood concerning the loaves, because their heart was hardened. 
And having crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret and anchored there. 
And when they came out of the boat, immediately having recognized Him, 
running about that whole surrounding region, they began to carry about on beds those who were sick to wherever they would hear that He was. 
And wherever He would enter into villages, or towns, or the country, they laid the sick in the marketplaces, and they would beg Him at least that they might touch the hem of His garment. And as many as touched Him were healed. 
