Acts.
Chapter 2.
And when the day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. 
And suddenly a sound came out of heaven, as being borne along by a violent wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. 
Then there appeared to them divided tongues, as of fire, and rested on each one of them. 
And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in different languages, as the Spirit gave them utterance. 
And there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation of those under heaven. 
And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together, and were confounded, because they were hearing each one speaking in his own language. 
And they were all amazed and were marveling, saying to one another, “Behold, are not all these who are speaking Galileans? 
And how is it that we hear, each in our own language in which we were born? 
Parthians and Medes and Elamites, those dwelling in Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, 
Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya toward Cyrene, visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, 
Cretans and Arabs—we hear them speaking in our own tongues the mighty deeds of God.” 
So they were all amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, “What does this mean?” 
Others were mocking and saying, “They are full of new wine.” 
But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice and spoke out to them, “Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words. 
For these are not drunk, as you suppose, for it is just the third hour of the day. 
But this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel: 
‘ “And it shall be in the last days,” says God, “that I will pour out My Spirit on all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy; and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams; 
and on My menservants and on My maidservants I will pour out My Spirit in those days; and they shall prophesy. 
And I will give wonders in the heaven above, and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke. 
The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the coming of the great and magnificent Day of the Lord. 
And it shall be that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.” ’ 
“Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a Man attested by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs which God did through Him in your midst, just as you yourselves also know— 
Him, being delivered by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, you took, and by lawless hands, nailing Him to a cross, you killed Him; 
whom God raised, thus doing away with the labor pains of death, because it was not possible for Him to be held by it. 
For David says concerning Him, ‘I foresaw the Lord always before me, because He is at my right hand, that I may not be shaken. 
Therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced; moreover my flesh also will dwell in hope. 
Because You will not abandon my soul in Hades, nor will You allow Your Holy One to see corruption. 
You have made known to me the ways of life; You will fill me full of joy with Your presence.’ 
“Men, brothers, let me speak with boldness to you about the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. 
Therefore, being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, He would raise up the Christ to seat Him on his throne, 
foreseeing this, he spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, ‘that His soul was not left in Hades, nor did His flesh see corruption.’ 
This Jesus God has raised up, of which we all are witnesses. 
Therefore having being exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, He poured out this which you now see and hear. 
For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he says himself: ‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at My right hand, 
till I make Your enemies a footstool for Your feet.” ’ 
“Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ.” 
Now having heard this, they were cut to the heart, and they said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, “Men and brothers, what shall we do?” 
Then Peter said to them, “Repent, and let each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins; and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. 
For the promise is for you and for your children, and for all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God will call.” 
And with many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, “Be saved from this crooked generation.” 
Then those who gladly received his word were baptized; and that day about three thousand souls were added. 
And they were continuing in the teaching of the apostles, and in fellowship, and in the breaking of bread, and in prayers. 
Then fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles. 
Now all who believed were together, and they had all things in common, 
and they were selling their possessions and goods, and were dividing them among all, to the degree that anyone had need. 
So continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they were sharing food with joy and simplicity of heart, 
praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord was adding to the church daily those who were being saved. 
