Matthew.
Chapter 28.
But after the Sabbath, at the dawning toward the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the tomb. 
And behold, a great earthquake occurred; for an angel of the Lord, having come down out of heaven, came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat on it. 
And his appearance was like lightning, and his clothing as white as snow. 
And the guards were shaken for fear of him, and became like dead men. 
But the angel answered and said to the women, “Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. 
He is not here! For He is risen, just as He said. Come; see the place where the Lord was lying. 
And go quickly and tell His disciples that He is risen from the dead, and behold, He is going before you into Galilee; there you will see Him. Behold, I have told you.” 
And going out quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, they ran to report to His disciples. 
And as they were going to report to His disciples, that behold, Jesus met them, saying, “Rejoice!” So they came and held His feet and worshiped Him. 
Then Jesus said to them, “Do not be afraid. Go, report to My brothers that they should go to Galilee, and there they will see Me.” 
Now while they were going, behold, some of the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priests everything that had happened. 
When they had assembled with the elders and taking counsel, they gave sufficient silver coins to the soldiers, 
saying, “Tell them, ‘His disciples came at night and stole Him away while we were sleeping.’ 
And if this reaches the governor's ears, we will influence him and make you secure.” 
So they took the silver and did as they were instructed. And this saying has been widely spread among the Jews until this day. 
Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain which Jesus had appointed for them. 
When they saw Him, they worshiped Him; but some doubted. 
And Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to Me. 
Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 
teaching them to observe everything that I have commanded you; and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.” Amen. 
