Corinthians.
Chapter 3.
And I, brothers, was not able to speak to you as to spiritual, but as to carnal, as to babes in Christ. 
I gave you milk to drink, and not solid food; for you were not yet able to receive it. Indeed, neither are you now yet able; 
for you are still carnal. For where there are envy, strife, and divisions among you, are you not carnal, and walking according to human principles? 
For when one says, “I am of Paul,” and another, “I am of Apollos,” are you not carnal? 
Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers through whom you believed, as the Lord has given to each one? 
I planted, Apollos watered, but God gives the increase. 
So then neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase. 
Now he who plants and he who waters are one, and each one will receive his own reward according to his own labor. 
For we are co-workers with God; you are God's field, you are God's building. 
According to the grace of God which was given to me, as a wise architect I have laid the foundation, but another builds on it. But let each one take heed how he builds on it. 
For no other foundation can anyone lay, other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. 
Now if anyone builds on this foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, 
each one's work shall be made manifest; for the Day shall expose it, because it shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall test each one's work, as to what sort it is. 
If anyone's work which he has built remains, he shall receive a reward. 
If anyone's work is burned up, he shall suffer loss; but he himself shall be saved, yet so as through fire. 
Do you not know that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? 
If anyone destroys the temple of God, God shall destroy him. For the temple of God is holy, which temple you are. 
Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you seems to be wise in this age, let him become a fool, that he may become wise. 
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, “He catches the wise in their craftiness”; 
and again, “The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are useless.” 
Therefore let no one boast in men. For all things are yours: 
whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas, or the world or life or death, or things present or things to come—all things are yours. 
And you are Christ's, and Christ is God's. 
