Acts.
Chapter 19.
And it came about, while Apollos was in Corinth, that Paul, having gone through the interior regions, came to Ephesus. And finding some disciples 
he said to them, “Did you receive the Holy Spirit, having believed?” So they said to him, “We have not even heard whether there is a Holy Spirit.” 
And he said to them, “Into what then were you baptized?” So they said, “Into John's baptism.” 
But Paul said, “John indeed baptized with a baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe in the One coming after him, that is, in Christ Jesus.” 
And when they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
And when Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they spoke in tongues and prophesied. 
Now all the men were about twelve. 
And he entered into the synagogue and spoke boldly for three months, debating and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God. 
But when some became hardened and disbelieving, speaking evil against the Way before the multitude, he withdrew from them and separated the disciples, each day debating in the school of Tyrannus. 
Now this took place for two years, so that all who were dwelling in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. 
And God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul, 
so that even handkerchiefs or aprons from his body were brought to those who were sick, and the diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits went out from them. 
Then some of the wandering Jews, exorcists, attempted to name the name of the Lord Jesus over those having the evil spirits, saying, “We adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches.” 
Now there were seven sons of Sceva, a Jewish high priest, doing this. 
But the evil spirit answered and said, “Jesus I know, and Paul I recognize, but who are you?” 
Then the man in whom was the evil spirit leaped upon them, and having subdued them, prevailed against them, so that they ran out of the house naked and wounded. 
Now this became known to all both Jews and Greeks who were dwelling in Ephesus; and fear fell upon them all, and they were praising the name of the Lord Jesus. 
And many of those who had believed were coming, confessing and disclosing their deeds. 
And many of those who were practicing magic brought together their books and burned them up before everyone. And they counted up the prices of them, and found it to be fifty thousand pieces of silver. 
Thus the word of the Lord was growing powerfully and prevailed. 
Now after these events, Paul resolved in his spirit to go to Jerusalem, after he went through Macedonia and Achaia, saying, “After I have been there, I must also see Rome.” 
And having sent to Macedonia two of those who were ministering to him, Timothy and Erastus, he himself stayed on for a time in Asia. 
Now there arose during that time a serious disturbance concerning the Way. 
For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, providing no little trade for the craftsmen, 
whom he gathered, with the workers of similar occupation, and said: “Men, you know that from this business we have our wealth. 
And you observe and hear that not only at Ephesus, but almost in all of Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away a great multitude, saying that they are not gods which are made by human hands. 
And not only is this business of ours in danger to come into disrepute, but also the temple of the great goddess Artemis may be despised and also her magnificence, and is about to be destroyed, she whom all Asia and the world worship.” 
And hearing this, and becoming full of anger, they were crying out saying, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!” 
And the whole city was filled with confusion, and they rushed with one purpose into the theater, having seized Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians, traveling companions of Paul. 
Now when Paul desired to enter into the people, the disciples would not permit him. 
And also some of the officials of Asia, being friends with him, sent word to him and urged him not to present himself in the theater. 
Then others were calling out something different, for the assembly was confused, and the majority did not know for what reason they had come together. 
And from the crowd they brought forward Alexander, the Jews putting him forward. And Alexander motioned with his hand, and desired to make a defense to the people. 
But recognizing he was a Jew, there arose one voice from them all, calling out for two hours, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!” 
And having quieted the crowd, the city clerk said: “Men of Ephesus, for what man is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is the temple keeper of the great goddess Artemis, and of the image fallen from heaven? 
Therefore, since these things are undeniable, it is necessary for you to be quieted and to do nothing rash. 
For you have brought these men here who are neither temple thieves nor blasphemers of your goddess. 
Therefore, if Demetrius and his fellow craftsmen have a word against anyone, the courts are in session, and there are proconsuls. Let them bring charges against one another. 
But if you are wanting to know anything about other matters, it shall be determined by a lawful assembly. 
For we also are in danger of being accused of insurrection concerning today's events, there being no cause for which we will be able to give, as an explanation for this commotion.” 
And having said these things, he dismissed the assembly. 
