John.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and was baptizing more disciples than John 
(although Jesus Himself was not baptizing, but His disciples), 
He left Judea and went away into Galilee. 
But He needed to pass through Samaria. 
Therefore He came to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar, near the piece of land which Jacob gave to his son Joseph. 
Now Jacob's well was there. Therefore Jesus, having become tired from the journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour. 
A woman of Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, “Give Me a drink.” 
(For His disciples had gone away into the city, that they might buy provisions). 
Then the woman of Samaria said to Him, “How is it that You, being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman?” For Jews do not associate with Samaritans. 
Jesus answered and said to her, “If you had known the gift of God, and who it is that says to you, ‘Give Me a drink,’ you would have asked Him, and He would have given to you living water.” 
The woman said to Him, “Sir, You have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do You get that living water? 
Are You greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank of it himself, as well as his sons and his livestock?” 
Jesus answered and said to her, “Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again, 
but whoever drinks of the water which I shall give him will by no means ever thirst again. But the water which I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into eternal life.” 
The woman said to Him, “Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come here to draw.” 
Jesus said to her, “Go, call your husband, and come here.” 
The woman answered and said, “I have no husband.” Jesus said to her, “You have said well, ‘I have no husband,’ 
for you have had five husbands, and the one whom you now have is not your husband; in this you have said truly.” 
The woman said to Him, “Sir, I perceive that You are a prophet. 
Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where it is necessary to worship.” 
Jesus said to her, “Woman, believe Me, the hour is coming when you will neither on this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, worship the Father. 
You worship what you do not know; we Jews worship what we know, because salvation is of the Jews. 
But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth; for the Father is seeking such to worship Him. 
God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth.” 
The woman said to Him, “I know that Messiah is coming” (who is called Christ). “When He comes, He will proclaim to us all things.” 
Jesus said to her, “I am He, the One speaking to you.” 
And at this point His disciples came, and they marveled that He was speaking with a woman; however no one said, “What do You seek?” or, “Why are You speaking with her?” 
The woman then left her water jar, went her way into the city, and said to the men, 
“Come, see a Man who told me everything I ever did. Could this be the Christ?” 
They went out of the city and were coming to Him. 
But in the meantime the disciples urged Him, saying, “Rabbi, eat.” 
But He said to them, “I have food to eat of which you do not know.” 
Therefore the disciples were saying to one another, “Has anyone brought Him something to eat?” 
Jesus said to them, “My food is to do the will of Him who sent Me, and to finish His work. 
Do you not say, ‘There are still four months and the harvest comes’? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes and see the fields, for they are already white for harvest! 
And he who reaps receives wages, and gathers fruit unto eternal life, that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together. 
For in this the saying is true: ‘One sows and another reaps.’ 
I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored; others have labored, and you have entered into their labors.” 
And many of the Samaritans of that city believed in Him because of the word of the woman testifying, “He told me everything I ever did.” 
So when the Samaritans had come to Him, they were asking Him to stay with them; and He stayed there two days. 
And many more believed because of His word. 
Then they were saying to the woman, “No longer because of your speech do we believe, for we ourselves have heard and know that this is truly the Christ, the Savior of the world.” 
Now after the two days He went out from there and went to Galilee. 
For Jesus Himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country. 
Therefore when He came into Galilee, the Galileans received Him, having seen all the things which He did in Jerusalem at the feast; for they also went to the feast. 
Then Jesus came again to Cana of Galilee where He had turned the water into wine. And there was a certain nobleman whose son was sick in Capernaum. 
When he heard that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to Him and asked Him that He might come down and heal his son, for he was about to die. 
Then Jesus said to him, “Unless you people see signs and wonders, you will by no means believe.” 
The nobleman said to Him, “Sir, come down before my child dies!” 
Jesus said to him, “Go; your son lives.” And the man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him, and went away. 
And already as he was going, his servants met him and reported, saying, “Your child lives!” 
Then he inquired from them the hour at which he got better. And they said to him, “Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.” 
Therefore the father knew that it was at the same hour in which Jesus said to him, “Your son lives.” And he himself believed, and his whole household. 
This was now the second sign that Jesus did, after He had come out of Judea into Galilee. 
