Mark.
Chapter 3.
And He entered again into the synagogue. And a man was there who had a withered hand. 
And they were observing Him, to see if He would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse Him. 
And He said to the one who had the withered hand, “Step forward.” 
Then He said to them, “Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or to kill?” But they kept silent. 
And looking around at them with anger, being grieved at the hardness of their hearts, He said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as whole as the other. 
Then the Pharisees went out with the Herodians and immediately conspired against Him, how they might destroy Him. 
But Jesus withdrew with His disciples to the sea. And a large multitude from Galilee followed Him, and from Judea 
and from Jerusalem and Idumea and beyond the Jordan, and those around Tyre and Sidon, a large multitude, when they heard everything He was doing, came to Him. 
So He told His disciples that a small boat should be kept ready for Him because of the crowd, lest they should crush Him. 
For He had healed many, so that all who had afflictions were crowding upon Him, so that they might touch Him. 
And the unclean spirits, whenever they saw Him, fell down before Him and would cry out, saying, “You are the Son of God.” 
And He strictly charged them that they should not make Him known. 
And He went up on the mountain and summoned those whom He wanted, and they came to Him. 
And He appointed twelve, so that they might be with Him, and so that He might send them out to preach, 
and to have authority to heal diseases and to cast out demons. 
And He gave Simon the name Peter, 
James the son of Zebedee and John the brother of James, He gave them the names Boanerges, which is, “Sons of Thunder”; 
Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, Simon the Cananite; 
and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed Him. 
And they came into a house. Then again a crowd assembled, so that they were not even able to eat food. 
But when His relatives heard, they came out to seize Him, for they were saying, “He has lost His mind.” 
And the scribes who were from Jerusalem came down and were saying, “He has Beelzebul,” and, “By the ruler of the demons He casts out demons.” 
And having summoned them, he began to say to them in parables: “How can Satan cast out Satan? 
And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 
And if a household is divided against itself, that household cannot stand. 
And if Satan has risen up against himself and has become divided, he cannot stand, but is finished. 
No one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his possessions, unless he first binds the strong man, and then he may plunder his house. 
“Assuredly I say to you, all sins will be forgiven the sons of men, also blasphemies, as many as they may blaspheme; 
but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal damnation”— 
because they were saying, “He has an unclean spirit.” 
Then His brothers and His mother came, and as they stood outside they sent to Him, calling for Him. 
And a crowd was sitting around Him; and they said to Him, “Look, Your mother and Your brothers and Your sisters are seeking You outside.” 
But He answered them, saying, “Who is My mother, or My brothers?” 
And when He had looked around in a circle at those sitting around Him, He said, “Here are My mother and My brothers! 
For whoever does the will of God is My brother and My sister and mother.” 
