Galatians.
Chapter 5.
Stand fast therefore in the freedom in which Christ has made us free, and do not be loaded down again with a yoke of bondage. 
Indeed I, Paul, say to you that if you become circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing. 
And I testify again to every man who becomes circumcised that he is obligated to keep the whole law. 
You have become severed from Christ, you who are justified by law; you have fallen from grace. 
For we by the Spirit eagerly await for the hope of righteousness by faith. 
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything, but faith working through love. 
You were running well; who hindered you from obeying the truth? 
This persuasion does not come from Him who calls you. 
A little leaven leavens the whole lump. 
I have confidence in you, in the Lord, that you will be intent on nothing else; but he who troubles you will bear his judgment, whoever he may be. 
And I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? In that case the offense of the cross has been done away with. 
Oh that those who disturb you would even castrate themselves! 
For you, brothers, were called to freedom; only do not use freedom for an opportunity for the flesh, but rather through love serve one another. 
For all the law is fulfilled in one word, in this: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” 
But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another! 
I say then: Walk in the Spirit, and you shall by no means fulfill the lust of the flesh. 
For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; and these things oppose each other, so that you cannot do the things that you wish. 
But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. 
Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are: adultery, sexual immorality, uncleanness, lewdness, 
idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish ambitions, dissensions, factions, 
envies, murders, drinking bouts, revelries, and the like; which I tell you beforehand, just as I also told you in time past, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. 
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 
gentleness, self-control—against such things there is no law. 
And those who are Christ's have crucified the flesh with its passions and lusts. 
If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. 
Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. 
