Corinthians.
Chapter 6.
Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to court before the unrighteous, and not before the saints? 
Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world will be judged by you, are you incompetent to judge even the smallest matters? 
Do you not know that we will judge angels? Let alone ordinary matters! 
If then you have ordinary lawsuits, do you appoint those who are disdained within the church to judge? 
I say this to your shame. So is there not among you a wise man, not even one, who will be able to judge between his brother and another? 
But brother goes to court against brother, and that before unbelievers! 
Actually then, it is already a defeat for you that you have lawsuits against one another. Why not rather accept wrong? Why not rather accept being defrauded? 
But you wrong and defraud, and these things to your own brothers! 
Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived. Neither sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, 
nor covetous, nor thieves, nor drunkards, nor abusive people, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. 
And such were some of you! But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. 
All things are lawful for me, but all things are not profitable. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be mastered by anything. 
Foods for the stomach and the stomach for foods, but God will destroy both this stomach and these foods. Now the body is not for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. 
Now God has both raised up the Lord, and will also raise us up through His power. 
Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? By no means! 
Do you not know that he who is joined to a harlot is one body with her? For “the two,” He says, “shall become one flesh.” 
But he that is joined with the Lord is one spirit with Him. 
Flee sexual immorality! Every sin that a man does is outside the body, but he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body. 
Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? 
For you were bought with a price; therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. 
