Acts.
Chapter 5.
But a certain man named Ananias, together with Sapphira his wife, sold a piece of property. 
And he kept back for himself from the price, his wife also being aware of it, and brought a certain part and placed it beside the feet of the apostles. 
But Peter said, “Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart for you to lie to the Holy Spirit, and for you to keep back for yourself from the price of the land? 
While it remained unsold, did it not remain yours? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why have you purposed this thing in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God.” 
Then Ananias, hearing these words, fell down and died. And great fear came upon all those who heard of it. 
And the young men rose up and covered him up, carried him out, and buried him. 
And it happened about three hours later, that his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in. 
And Peter said to her, “Tell me whether you sold the land for so much?” She said, “Yes, for so much.” 
Then Peter said to her, “Why is it that it was agreed by you to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they shall carry you out as well.” 
Then immediately she fell down beside his feet and died. And the young men came in and found her dead, and carrying her out, buried her with her husband. 
And great fear fell on all the church, and upon all those who were hearing these things. 
Now by the hands of the apostles, many signs and wonders took place among the people. And they were all with one mind in Solomon's Porch. 
But none of the rest dared join them, but the people were magnifying them. 
And more than ever, believers were added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women, 
so that they were bringing the sick out into the streets, and placing them on couches and pallets, so that as Peter was passing, at least his shadow might fall on some of them. 
And also the multitude from the surrounding cities were coming together into Jerusalem, bringing the sick and those who were tormented by unclean spirits, who were all being healed. 
Then the high priest rose up, and all those who were with him (which is the sect of the Sadducees), and they were filled with jealousy, 
and laid their hands on the apostles and put them in the public prison. 
But an angel of the Lord during the night opened the doors of the prison, and leading them out, he said, 
“Go, stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this life.” 
And when they heard that, they entered the temple about daybreak and were teaching. Now when the high priest and those with him arrived, they called together the council, even all the elders of the sons of Israel, and sent to the prison for them to be brought. 
But when the attendants arrived, and did not find them in the jail, they returned and announced, 
saying, “Indeed we found the prison shut in all security, and the guards standing before the doors; but when we opened them, we found no one inside!” 
Now when they heard these words, both the high priest and the captain of the temple, and the chief priests, they were greatly perplexed about them, as to what would come of this. 
So one came and reported to them, saying, “Behold, the men whom you put in jail are standing in the temple and teaching the people!” 
Then the captain went with the officers and brought them without violence, for they were afraid of the people, lest they be stoned. 
And they brought them, and set them before the council. And the high priest asked them, 
saying, “Did we not give you strict orders not to continue teaching in this name? And behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you want to bring on us the blood of this Man!” 
But Peter and the apostles answered, and said: “We must obey God rather than men. 
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you murdered by hanging on a tree. 
Him God has exalted to His right hand as Prince and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. 
And we are His witnesses of these words, and so also is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him.” 
But when they heard this, they were infuriated and were resolving to kill them. 
Then someone in the council stood up, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law held in honor by all the people, and commanded them to put the apostles outside for a short time. 
And he said to them: “Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves to these men, as to what you are about to do. 
For before these days, Theudas rose up, claiming himself to be someone, to whom was joined a number of men, about four hundred. He was slain, and all who obeyed him were scattered and came to nothing. 
After this arose Judas the Galilean, in the days of the census, and caused considerable number of people after him to revolt. He too perished, and as many as were persuaded by him were scattered. 
And now I say to you, keep away from these men and let them alone; for if this counsel or this work is of men, it will fail; 
but if it is of God, you cannot overthrow it—lest you even be found fighting against God.” 
And they were persuaded by him, and when they had called the apostles and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus, and released them. 
Then they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing because they were counted worthy to be dishonored on behalf of the name of Jesus. 
And daily in the temple, and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and proclaiming the gospel of Jesus the Christ. 
