Acts.
Chapter 10.
Now there was a certain man in Caesarea named Cornelius, a centurion of what was called the Italian Regiment, 
a devout man, and one that feared God, together with all his household, who often gave alms to the people, and making petition to God always. 
About the ninth hour of the day, he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God coming to him and saying to him, “Cornelius!” 
And looking intently at him and becoming fearful he said, “What is it, lord?” And he said to him, “Your prayers and your alms have come up for a memorial before God. 
Now send men to Joppa, and send for Simon whose surname is Peter. 
He is staying as a guest with one Simon, a tanner, whose house is beside the sea.” 
Now when the angel who had been speaking to Cornelius had departed, he called two of his servants and a devout soldier from among those who waited on him continually. 
And explaining to them everything, he sent them to Joppa. 
Now on the next day, as they were traveling and drawing near to the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray, at about the sixth hour. 
And he became hungry and wanted to eat; but while they were preparing, he fell into a trance. 
And he saw heaven having been opened, and descending to him a certain vessel like a great sheet, having been bound at the four corners, and being let down upon the ground, 
in which were all the four-footed animals of the earth and the wild animals, and the reptiles, and the birds of the air. 
And there came a voice to him, saying, “Arise, Peter; kill and eat.” 
But Peter said, “By no means, Lord! For never did I eat anything common or unclean.” 
And a voice spoke again the second time to him, “That which God has made clean, you must not make common.” 
And this happened three times, and again the vessel was taken up into heaven. 
Now as Peter was very perplexed within himself as to what the vision which he had seen might mean, behold, the men who had been sent from Cornelius, having found by inquiry the house of Simon, stood at the gateway. 
And they called and asked whether Simon, whose surname was Peter, was lodging there. 
Now while Peter pondered about the vision, the Spirit said to him, “Behold, men are seeking you. 
Arise therefore, go down and go with them, without wavering; for I have sent them.” 
And Peter, going down to the men, said, “Behold, I am he whom you seek. Why have you come?” 
And they said, “Cornelius the centurion, a just man, and fearing God, having a good reputation among all the nation of the Jews, was given a revelation by a holy angel to send for you to his house, and to hear a message from you.” 
Therefore he invited them in and received them as guests. Now on the next day Peter went forth with them, and some brothers from Joppa went with him. 
And on the next day they entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius was waiting for them, having called together his relatives and close friends. 
Now when it happened that Peter entered, Cornelius met him, and fell at his feet and worshiped him. 
But Peter raised him up, saying, “Stand up; I too am just a man.” 
And talking with him he went in, and found many having gathered, 
and he said to them, “You know how unlawful it is for a Jewish man to associate with or to approach a Gentile; and yet God has shown to me that I should call no man common or unclean; 
therefore also without objecting, I came when I was sent for. I ask, then, for what reason have you sent for me?” 
So Cornelius said, “From the fourth day until this hour I was fasting, and at the ninth hour I was praying in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in shining clothing, 
and said, ‘Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your alms are remembered before God. 
Send therefore to Joppa and summon Simon, whose surname is Peter. He is staying as a guest in the house of Simon, a tanner, beside the sea. When he arrives, he will speak to you.’ 
Therefore immediately I sent to you, and you have done well to come. Now then we are all present before God, to hear all the things having been commanded you by God.” 
And Peter, opening his mouth, said: “In truth I comprehend that God is not One to show partiality. 
But in every nation, he that fears Him and works righteousness is acceptable to Him. 
The word which God sent to the sons of Israel, preaching the good news of peace through Jesus Christ—He being Lord of all— 
you know, the word coming to be throughout all of Judea, and beginning from Galilee after the baptism which John proclaimed, 
Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed Him with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all those who were oppressed by the devil, because God was with Him. 
And we are witnesses of all things which He did, both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they also killed by hanging on a tree. 
This Jesus God raised up on the third day, and caused Him to be seen, 
not to all the people, but to witnesses, who having been chosen beforehand by God, even to us, who ate and drank together with Him after He arose from the dead. 
And He commanded us to proclaim to the people, and to testify solemnly that He is the One having been appointed by God to be Judge of the living and the dead. 
To Him all the prophets bear witness, that through His name, everyone believing in Him shall receive forgiveness of sins.” 
While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who heard the word. 
And those of the circumcision who believed were astounded, as many as had come with Peter, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles also. 
For they heard them speaking in tongues and magnifying God. Then Peter answered, 
“Surely no one can forbid water, can he, that these should not be baptized who received the Holy Spirit just as we have?” 
And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then they asked him to stay for some days. 
