Mark.
Chapter 13.
And as He was going out from the temple, one of His disciples said to Him, “Teacher, see what sort of stones and what sort of buildings!” 
And Jesus answered and said to him, “Do you see these great buildings? By no means shall one stone be left upon another, which shall in any way escape destruction.” 
And as He was sitting on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked Him privately, 
“Tell us, when will these things be? And what will be the sign when all these things are about to be fulfilled?” 
And Jesus, answering them, began to say: “See that no one deceives you. 
For many will come in My name, saying, ‘I AM,’ and they will deceive many. 
But whenever you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be disturbed; for these things must occur, but the end is not yet. 
For nation will be raised up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. And there will be earthquakes in various places, and there will be famines and disturbances. These are the beginnings of birth pains. 
“But take heed to yourselves, for they will deliver you up to councils, and you will be flogged in the synagogues. You will stand before rulers and kings for My sake, as a testimony to them. 
And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all the nations. 
But whenever they lead you forth to deliver you over, do not worry beforehand as to what you will say, nor rack your brains. But whatever is given you in that hour, speak this; for it is not you who is speaking, but the Holy Spirit. 
Now brother will deliver up brother to death, and a father his child; and children will rise up against parents and will cause them to be put to death. 
And you will be hated by all on account of My name. But he who endures to the end shall be saved. 
“So whenever you see the ‘abomination of desolation,’ spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where he must not”—he who reads, let him understand—“then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. 
And let him on the housetop not go down into the house, nor enter to take anything out of his house. 
And let him who is in the field not return to the things behind, to take his garment. 
But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days! 
And pray that your flight does not take place in winter. 
For in those days will be tribulation, such as there has not been the like from the beginning of creation which God created until now, and never again shall be. 
And unless the Lord had cut short the days, no flesh would be saved; but on account of the elect, whom He chose, He cut short the days. 
“Then if anyone says to you, ‘Look, here is the Christ!’ or, ‘Look, there He is!’ do not believe it. 
For false christs and false prophets will arise, and they will show signs and wonders to deceive, if possible, even the elect. 
But you take heed! See, I have foretold to you all things. 
“But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its radiance; 
and the stars shall fall out of the heavens, and the powers in the heavens shall be shaken. 
And then they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. 
And then He will send His angels, and they will gather together His elect from the four winds, from the extremity of earth to the extremity of heaven. 
“Now learn this parable from the fig tree: When its branch has already become tender, and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near. 
So also you, when you see these things coming to pass, know that it is near—even at the doors! 
Assuredly I say to you, that by no means will this generation have passed away until all these things have taken place. 
Heaven and earth shall pass away, but My words shall by no means pass away. 
“But concerning that day or hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father. 
Take heed, stay awake and pray; for you do not know when the time is. 
It is like a man going away on a journey, having left his house and having given authority to his servants, and to each his work, and commanded the doorkeeper that he should watch. 
Watch therefore, for you do not know when the master of the house is coming—at evening, or at midnight, or at dawn, or early in the morning— 
lest having come suddenly, he should find you sleeping. 
And the things I say to you, I say to all: watch!” 
