Acts.
Chapter 6.
Now in those days, as the disciples were increasing in number, there arose a complaint from the Greek speaking Jews against the Aramaic speaking Jews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution. 
Then the twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said, “It is not pleasing to us that we should forsake the word of God to serve tables. 
Therefore, brothers, select seven men from among you, of good reputation, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint for this need. 
But we will faithfully engage in prayer and in the ministry of the word.” 
And the word was pleasing before all the congregation, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit, and Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolas, a proselyte from Antioch, 
whom they set before the apostles; and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them. 
And the word of God was growing, and the number of the disciples in Jerusalem was being multiplied exceedingly, and a great many of the priests were obeying the faith. 
And Stephen, full of faith and power, was performing great wonders and signs among the people. 
But there arose some men from what was called the Synagogue of the Freedmen, both of the Cyrenians and the Alexandrians, and of those from Cilicia and Asia, debating with Stephen. 
And they were not able to withstand the wisdom and the Spirit with which he spoke. 
Then they secretly instigated men to say, “We have heard him speaking blasphemous words against Moses and God.” 
And they aroused the people and the elders and the scribes; and coming upon him, they seized him, and led him to the council. 
And they put forward false witnesses saying, “This man does not cease to speak blasphemous words against this holy place and the law; 
for we have heard him say that this Nazarene, Jesus, will destroy this place and change the customs which Moses handed down to us.” 
And looking intently at him, all those who sat in the council saw his face like the face of an angel. 
