Exodus.
Chapter 16.
And they journeyed from Elim, and came, the whole assembly of the sons of Israel, to the desert of Sir, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month from their outgoing from the land of Mizraim. 
And all the congregation of the children of Israel were troublous against Mosheh and against Aharon in the desert; 
And the children of Israel said to them, 
that we had died before the Lord in the land of Mizraim, when we sat by the caldrons of flesh, and could eat bread and be satisfied! Why have you brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with famine? 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Behold, I will cause bread to come down to you from heaven; and the people shall go out and collect the matter of the day for the day; that I may prove them whether they will walk in My law, or not. 
And in the sixth day, when they prepare that which they bring in, it shall be two for one upon what they collect from day to day. 
And Mosheh and Aharon said to all the children of Israel, In the evening you shall know that the Lord brought you out of the land of Mizraim, 
And in the morning shall you see the Glory of the Lord; for your tumults are heard before the Lord: and we what, that you are restive against us? 
And Mosheh said, When the Lord will give you at evening flesh to eat, and bread in the morning to satisfy, while are heard before the Lord your tumults against Him! For what are we? Your tumults are not against us, but against the Word of the Lord. 
And Mosheh said to Aharon, Bid all the congregation of the sons of Israel to come together before the Lord; for your tumult is heard before the Lord. 
And it was, while Aharon was speaking with all the congregation of the sons of Israel, that they turned towards the desert, and, behold, the glory of the Lord was revealed in the cloud. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying, 
The tumult of the children of Israel is heard before Me. Speak with them to say, Between the evenings you shall eat flesh, and in the morning be satisfied with bread, and you shall know that I am the Lord your God. 
And it was in the evening that the quails came up and covered the camp; and in the morning a dew descended round about the camp; 
And when the dew which had fallen had gone up, behold, upon the face of the desert, a small (substance) without covering, small like hoar frost, heaped on the earth. 
And the sons of Israel saw, and said, a man to his brother, Mana-hu! For they knew not what it was. And Mosheh said to them, This is the bread which the Lord will give you to eat. 
This is the word that the Lord hath commanded: Let every man gather of it according to his eating an omera for every head according to the number of your souls, a man for those of his tent shall you take. 
And the sons of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, (others) less; 
And they measured with an omera, and he who had (gathered) much had not more, and he who had (gathered) little had not less; every man according to his eating they gathered. 
And Mosheh said to them, No man must leave of it for the morning. 
But they hearkened not to Mosheh, but some left for the morning, and it swarmed worms and corrupted. And Mosheh was angry with them. 
And they gathered it from morning to morning a man according to his eating; and when the sun grew hot on that which remained upon the face of the field, it melted. 
And it was that on the sixth day they gathered a double (quantity) of bread, two omers for one: and all the chiefs of the congregation came and showed Mosheh. 
And be said to them, Tomorrow is the rest of the holy Shabbath before the Lord. That which you prepare by baking, bake, and that which you prepare by boiling, boil, and all the remainder lay up to you, a store for the morning. 
And they laid it up till the morning, as Mosheh had instructed; and it did not corrupt, neither were there worms in it. 
And Mosheh said, Eat that today, for this day is Shabbath before the Lord; this day you would not find it in the field. 
Six days you shall collect it; but on the seventh day, the Shabbath, there will be none. 
And it was on the seventh day that some of the people went out to gather, but they found it not. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, How long will you be unwilling to keep My commandments and My laws? 
See, because the Lord hath given you the Shabbath He hath therefore given you on the sixth day the bread for two days; let every man dwell in his resting, and not go out from his place on the seventh day. 
And the people reposed on the seventh day. 
And the house of Israel called the name of it Manna; and it was as the seed of Gida white, and its taste was like cake broiled with honey. 
And Mosheh said, This is the word which the Lord hath commanded. Fill an omera of it to be kept for your generations, that they may see the bread which I made you eat in the desert when I brought you forth from the land of Mizraim. 
And Mosheh said to Aharon, Take one vase, and put therein an omera full of manna, and lay it up before the Lord to be preserved for your generations. 
As the Lord commanded, so did Mosheh; and Aharon laid it up before the Testimony, to keep. 
And the children of Israel ate the manna forty years, until they came to the land inhabited; they did eat the manna till they came to the confines of the land of Kenaan. 
And one omera is the tenth of three seahs. 
