Exodus.
Chapter 19.
In the third month of the outgoing of the sons of Israel from the land of Mizraim, on that day came they to the desert of Sinai. 
And they journeyed from Rephidim, and came to the desert of Sinai, and dwelt there by the side of the mountain. 
And Mosheh ascended before the Lord. And the Lord called to him from the mount, saying, As thus thou shalt speak to the house of Jakob, and show to the sons of Israel: 
You have seen what I did to the Mizraee, and how I bare you as on eagles’ wings, and brought you nigh to serve Me: 
And now, if hearkening you will hearken to My Word, and will keep My covenant, you, before Me, shall be more beloved than all peoples; for all the earth is Mine. 
And you, before Me, shall be kings (and) priests, a holy people. These are the words which thou shalt speak with the sons of Israel. 
And Mosheh came, and called the elders of the people, and set all these words in order before them, as the Lord had instructed him. 
And all the people responded together, and said, All that the Lord hath spoken we will do. And Mosheh brought back the words of the people before the Lord. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Behold, I will be revealed to thee in the darkness of the cloud, that the people may hear, in My speaking with thee, and also that they may confide in thee forever. And Mosheh showed the words of the people before the Lord. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Go unto the people and prepare them, today and tomorrow, and let them purify their clothing; 
And be ready for the third day; for on the third day the Lord will be revealed in the eyes of all the people upon mount Sinai. 
And thou shalt set a limit for the people round about, saying, Beware you of going up on the mountain, or of approaching the border of it. Whoever approaches the mountain, slain he shall be slain. 
No hand shall touch him; for stoned he shall be stoned, or pierced he shall be pierced; whether beast or man, he shall not live. When the trumpet is prolonged they shall be allowed to go forward to the mount. 
And Mosheh came down from the mountain unto the people, and prepared the people, and they made white their clothes. 
And he said to the people, Be ready on the third day, approach not to a woman. 
And it was the third day at morning; and there were voices, and lightnings, and mighty clouds upon the mountain, and the voice of the trumpet exceedingly strong; and all the people trembled who were in the camp. 
And Mosheh led forth the people out of the camp to meet the Word of the Lord; and they stood at the lower parts of the mount. 
And the mountain of Sinai was altogether fuming from before the revelation of the Lord upon it in fire; and the smoke went up as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mount trembled greatly. 
But when the voice of the trumpet went forth and became exceedingly strong, Mosheh spake, and from the presence of the Lord he was answered by a voice. 
And the Lord was revealed upon mount Sinai, on the head of the mountain; and the Lord called Mosheh unto the head of the mount; and Mosheh went up. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Go down, warn the people lest they break through before the Lord to see, and many of them fall. 
And let the priests also, who are to minister before the Lord, sanctify themselves, lest the Lord slay them. 
And Mosheh spake before the Lord, The people are not able to come up to mount Sinai; for Thou hast warned us, saying, Set a boundary to the mountain, and sanctify it. 
But the Lord said to him, Go, descend, and come up, thou and Aharon with thee; but let not the priests nor the people break through to come up before the Lord, lest He slay them. 
And Mosheh went down to the people, and spake with them. 
