Numbers.
Chapter 16.
But Korack bar zhar bar Kahath bar Levi, and Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, and On bar Pelath of the Beni Reuben, made a division. 
And they rose up in the presence of Mosheh with (other) men of the sons of Israel, two hundred and fifty, chiefs of the congregation, who at the time of the convocation had been men of name. 
And they gathered together against Mosheh, and against Aharon, and said to them, You are too great; for the whole of the congregation are all of them holy, and the Lord’s Shekinah dwelleth among them: wherefore then are you lifted up above the church (congregation) of the Lord? 
And Mosheh heard, and fell upon his face. 
And he spake with Korach, and with all the congregation, saying: In the morning the Lord will make blown who it is who pertaineth to Him, and who bath been consecrated to approach to His presence; and whosoever He shall appoint shall go near unto His service. 
This do: Take you censers, Korach and all his congregation; 
And put fire in them, and put sweet incense upon it before the Lord tomorrow: and the man whom the Lord will choose, he shall be holy. You have too much, sons of Levi. 
And Mosheh said to Korach, Hear now, sons of Levi: 
Is it a little thing with you that the God of Israel hath separated you from the congregation of Israel to bring you near before Him to perform the service of the Lord’s tabernacle, and to stand before the congregation to minister to them? 
But He hath brought thee nigh, and all thy brethren the sons of Levi with thee: and seek you now the High Priesthood also? 
Therefore thou and all thy company have gathered together against the Lord. And Aharon, what is he, that you murmur against him? 
And Mosheh, sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab; but they said, We will not come up. 
Is it a trifle that thou hast brought us from a land making milk and honey to kill us in the desert, that thou mayest domineer and rule over us? 
Neither hast thou brought us into the land that maketh milk and honey, to give us an inheritance of fields and vineyards: wilt thou blind the eyes of these men? We will not come up. 
And Mosheh was greatly angered, and said before the Lord, Receive not Thou their offering: I have not taken one ass from them, neither have I injured one of them. 
And Mosheh said to Korach, Be thou and all thy company prepared before the Lord, thou and they and Aharon tomorrow. 
And take every man his censer, and put sweet incense upon them, each man to offer before the Lord (with) his censer. 
And they took every man his censer, and set fire in it, and put sweet incense thereon, and stood at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance, with Mosheh and Aharon. 
And Korach assembled with him all the company at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance. And the glory of the Lord was revealed to all the congregation. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh and to Aharon, saying: 
Separate yourselves from among this company, and I will consume them at once. 
But they fell upon their faces, and said, O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and thou be wroth with all the congregation? 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the congregation, saying: Get you up from among the tents of Korach, Dathan, and Abiram. 
And Mosheh arose and went unto Dathan and Abiram, and the elders of Israel followed him. 
And he spake with the congregation, saying: Remove now from the tents of these guilty men, and touch not anything that is theirs, lest you be stricken with all their sins. 
And they gat up from the tents of Korach, Dathan, and Abiram round about; and Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood at the door of their tents, with their wives, and their sons, and their families. 
And Mosheh said: By this shall you know that the Lord hath sent me to do all these works, because (I do them) not of my own will: 
If these men die the death of all men, and the visitation of all men be visited upon them, the Lord hath not sent me. 
But if the Lord create a creation, and the earth open her mouth, and swallow them up, and all that is theirs, and they go down alive into Sheul, then you will know that these men have caused anger before the Lord. 
And it was, when he had finished to speak all these words, that the ground under them clave asunder, 
and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and the men of their houses; and all the men of Korach, and all their substance, 
they, and all who were theirs, went down alive into Sheul; and the earth closed upon them, and they perished from among the congregation. 
And all Israel who stood round about them fled from their cry; for they said, Lest the earth swallow us. 
And fire came out from before the Lord, and consumed the two hundred and fifty men who had offered the sweet incense. 
