Genesis.
Chapter 16.
And Sara wife of Abram had no child; and she had an handmaid, a Mizretha, and her name was Hagar. 
And Sara said to Abram, Behold now, the Lord hath restrained me from childbearing; go in now to my handmaid, if, perhaps, I may have sons from her. And Abram received the word of Sara. 
And Sara wife of Abram took Hagar her handmaid, the Mizretha, at the end of ten years of Abram’s dwelling in the land of Kenaan, and gave her to Abram her husband to be his wife; 
And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived, and she saw that she had conceived, and her mistress was despised in her eyes. 
And Sara said to Abram, I have (a cause of) judgment against thee. I have given my handmaid to thee, and she seeth that she hath conceived, and I am despised in her eyes: the Lord judge between me and thee. 
And Abram said to Sara, Behold, thy handmaid is in thy hand, do to her as is pleasing in thine eyes: and Sara afflicted her, and she fled from before her. 
And the Angel of the Lord found her at the fountain of water in the wilderness, at the fountain in the way of Hagra. 
And he said, Hagar handmaid of Sara, whence comest thou, and whither art thou going? And she said, From before Sara my mistress do I escape. 
And the Angel of the Lord said to her, Return to thy mistress and be subject under her hand. 
And the Angel of the Lord said to her: Multiplying I will multiply thy sons, and they shall not be numbered for multitude. 
And the Angel of the Lord said to her, Behold, thou hast conceived, and shalt give birth to a son, and thou shalt call his name Yishmael, because the Lord hath heard thy prayer. 
And he will be untameable by man, and he will be needy to everyone, and also all men will be needy to him, and before the face of all his brethren will he dwell. 
And she prayed in the Name of the Lord who had spoken with her; and she said: Thou art Eloha, seeing all: for she said, I also have begun to see after that He hath been revealed to me. 
Therefore she called the name of the well, The well at which appeared the Angel of the Covenant: behold, it is between Rekam and Hagra. 
And Hagar bare to Abram a son, and Abram called the name of his son whom Hagar bare Yishmael. 
And Abram was son of eighty and six years when Hagar bare Yishmael unto Abram. 
