Exodus.
Chapter 7.
But the Lord said to Mosheh, See, I have appointed thee a Master (rab) with Pharoh, and Aharon shall be thy interpreter (methurgeman). 
Thou shalt speak all that I have commanded thee, and Aharon thy brother shall speak with Pharoh to send away the sons of Israel from his land. 
And I will harden the heart of Pharoh, and will multiply My signs and wonders in the land of Mizraim. 
But Pharoh will not receive from you; and I will give forth the stroke of My power upon Mizraim, and will bring out My host, My people, the sons of Israel, from the land of Mizraim by great judgments. 
And the Mizraee shall know that I am the Lord when I uplift the stroke of My power upon Mizraim, and bring forth the sons of Israel from among them. 
And Mosheh and Aharon did as the Lord commanded them, so did they. 
And Mosheh was the son of eighty years, and Aharon the son of eighty and three years, in their speaking with Pharoh. 
And the Lord spake to Mosheh and Aharon, saying, 
When Pharoh shall speak to you, saying, Produce a sign, thou shalt say to Aharon, Take thy rod, and throw it down before Pharoh. And it shall become a serpent (tanina, Heb tanin, a long creature, whether serpent or crocodile). 
And Mosheh and Aharon went in unto Pharoh, and did as the Lord had commanded them. Aharon threw down his rod before Pharoh and before his servants, and it became a serpent. 
And Pharoh called for the wise men and the magicians; and they also, the Mizraite magicians, did so by their enchantments. 
They cast down every man his rod, and they became serpents; but the rod of Aharon swallowed up their rods. 
And Pharoh’s heart was hardened, and be would not hearken to them, as the Lord had said. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, The heart of Pharoh is obdurate (heavy): he is unwilling to send the people away. 
Go unto Pharoh in the morning; behold, he goeth forth to the waters, and stand to meet him on the bank of the river, and the rod that was turned to a serpent (hevja, Heb, nachash) take in thy hand; 
And say to him, The Lord God of the Jehudaee hath sent me to thee, saying, Release My people, that they may serve before Me in the desert; and, behold, thou hast not yet acceded. 
Thus saith the Lord, By this thou shalt know that I am the Lord: Behold, with the rod that is in my hand I smite the water of the river, and it shall be turned to blood: 
And the fish which are in the river shall die, and the river become putrid, and the Mizraee try in vain to drink the water from the river. 
And the Lord spake to Mosheh, Say to Aharon, Take thy rod, and lift up thy hand over the waters of the Mizraee, upon their rivers, upon their canals, and upon their lakes, and upon all their reservoirs of water, that they may become blood; and there shall be blood in all the land of Mizraim, and in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone. 
And Mosheh and Aharon did so, as the Lord commanded; and he lifted the rod, and struck the waters of the river, in the sight of Pharoh, and in the eyes of his servants, and all the waters of the river were turned into blood. 
And the fish of the river died, and the river became putrid; and the Mizraee could not drink of the water of the river, and there was blood in all the land of Mizraim. 
And the magicians did so with their enchantments; and Pharoh’s heart was hardened, and he would not hearken to them, as the Lord had said. 
And Pharoh turned and entered into his house; neither did he set his heart also unto this. 
And all the Mizraee digged by the bending of the river for water to drink; for the water which was in the river they could not drink. 
And seven days were fulfilled after that the Lord had struck the river; 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Go in unto Pharoh and say to him, Thus saith the Lord: Send away My people, that they may serve before me. 
But if thou refuse to send them away, behold, I will smite all thy borders with frogs, 
And the river shall multiply frogs; and they shall come up and enter into thy house, and into thy chamber the place of sleep, and upon thy bed, and into the house of thy servants, and among thy people, and into thy ovens and thy kneading pans; 
And upon thee and upon thy people and upon all thy servants shall the frogs come up. 
