Deuteronomy.
Chapter 29.
And Mosheh called unto all Israel, and said to them: You have seen all that the Lord wrought before your eyes in the land of Mizraim on Pharoh, and all his servants, and on all his land; 
The great temptations, the signs and grand portents which thy eyes beheld; 
Yet the Lord hath not given you a heart to understand, nor eyes to discern, nor ears to hear, unto this day. 
And I have led you forty years in the wilderness; your raiment hath not become old upon you, and thy shoes have not worn away from off thy feet; 
You have not eaten bread, nor drunk wine, either new or old, that you may know that I am the Lord your God. 
And you came to this place; and Sihon the king of Heshbon and Og the king of Mathnan came out to meet us, to wage battle; and we smote them, 
And subdued their land, and gave it for an inheritance to the tribe of Reuben and Gad, and the half tribe of Menasheh. 
Keep ye the words of this covenant, and perform them, that you may prosper in all that you do. 
You stand this day an of you before the Lord your God, the princes of your tribes, your elders, and your officers, every man of Israel; 
Your children, your wives, and thy sojourner who is within thy camp, from the hewer of thy wood to the filler of thy water; 
To enter into the covenant of the Lord thy God, and into His oath which the Lord thy God doth ratify with thee this day, 
That He may establish thee this day to be a people before Him, and that He may be a God unto thee, as He promised thee, and as He sware unto Abraham, and to Izhak, and to Jakob. 
And I ratify this covenant and oath not with you only, 
But with him who is standing here with us this day: before the Lord our God, and with him also who is not here with us this day. 
For you know how we dwelt in the land of Mizraim, and how we came through the midst of the nations by whom we have passed. 
And you have seen their abominations, and their idols of wood and stone, silver and gold, which (were found) among them; 
Lest there should be among you a man, woman, family, or tribe whose heart is turned away this day from the fear of the Lord our God, to go after the worship of these Gentiles; lest there should be with you a man who imagineth wickedness or pride, 
that, when he heareth the words of this oath, he should reckon in his heart, saying, I shall have peace, though I go on in the imagination of my heart to multiply sins of ignorance with (sin of) presumption. 
The Lord will not absolve him, but now will the anger and indignation of the Lord break forth against that man, and all the curses which are written in this book will cleave to him, and his name will be blotted out from under the heavens. 
And the Lord will separate him from all the tribes of Israel unto evil, according to all the curses of the covenant which are written in the book of this law. 
And the generation that cometh after, and your children who will arise after you, and the son of the Gentiles who may come from a land afar off, when they see the plagues of that land, and the afflictions with which the Lord will afflict it, 
The whole land, brimstone and salt and burning, with no sowing, or growth, or any herbage springing up therein, even as the overthrow of Sedom and Amorah, Admah and Zeboim, which the Lord overthrew in His anger and indignation, 
even all the nations will say, Why did the Lord thus to this land? What caused the fury of this wrath? 
Then shall they say, Because they have forsaken the covenant of the Lord, the God of their fathers, which He ratified with them when He brought them out of the land of Mizraim. 
For they went and served the idols of the Gentiles, and worshipped fearful things which they knew not, and which could do them no good. 
And the anger of the Lord waxed strong against this land to bring upon it all the curses that are written in this book. 
And the Lord cast them away from off their land in anger, indignation, and great violence, and drave them captive into another land as at this day. 
The things which are secret are before the Lord our God; and those which are revealed are ours, and our children’s forever, that we may do all the words of this law. 
