Leviticus.
Chapter 8.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Bring Aharon near, and his sons with him, with the vestments, and the oil of consecration, and the bullock for the sin offering, and the two rams, and the basket of unleavened (cakes); 
And let all the congregation gather together at the gate of the tabernacle of ordinance. 
And Mosheh did as the Lord commanded him, and the congregation was gathered together at the gate of the tabernacle of ordinance. 
And Mosheh said to the congregation, This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded to be done. 
And Mosheh brought Aharon and his sons near, and washed them with water; 
And he put upon him the vestment, and girded him with the girdle, and dressed him with the robe, and set upon him the ephod, and bound him with the band of the ephod, and ordained him therewith; 
And set upon him the breastplate, and put in the breastplate the uraia an the thummaia. 
And he set the mitre upon his head, and place on the mitre, on the forehead of his face, the plate of gold, the diadem of Holiness, as the Lord had commanded Mosheh. 
And Mosheh took the consecrating oil, and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it, and sanctified them. 
And he sprinkled of it upon the altar seven times, and anointed the altar and all its vessels, and the laver and its base, to sanctify them. 
And he poured the oil of consecration upon Aharon’s head, and anointed him to consecrate him. 
And Mosheh brought the sons of Aharon near, and dressed them in vestments, and girded them with girdles, and appointed them with mitres, as the Lord had commanded Mosheh. 
And he brought the bullock near for the sin offering, and Aharon and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the bullock which was the sin offering. 
And Mosheh took the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar round about, with his finger, and purified the altar, and the blood he poured out at the base of the altar, and consecrated it to make atonement upon it. 
And he took all the fat which was upon the inwards, and the caul of the liver, and the two kidneys with their fat; and Mosheh burned them at the altar. 
But the bullock, with his skin, and his flesh, and his food, he burned with fire without the camp, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And he brought the ram for the burnt offering, and Aharon and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram, 
And he killed it, and Mosheh sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about. 
And the ram he divided by his members; and Mosheh burned the head and the members with the fat. 
And the inwards and the legs he washed with water: and Mosheh burned all the ram at the altar: it was a whole burnt offering before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Mosheh. 
And he brought the second ram of the oblations; and Aharon and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram, 
And he killed it; and Mosheh took of its blood, and put it upon the tip of Aharon’s right ear, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the toe of his right foot; 
and Mosheh sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about. 
And he took the fat and the tail, and all the fat which is upon the inwards, and the caul of the liver, and the two kidneys and their fat, and the right shoulder: 
And from the basket of unleavened cakes that was before the Lord he took one unleavened cake, and one cake of bread (anointed with) oil, and one wafer, and set them upon the fat and upon the right shoulder, 
and put the whole upon Aharon’s hands and upon the hands of his sons, and uplifted them, an elevation before the Lord. 
And Mosheh took them form off their hands, and burned (them) at the altar upon the burnt offering: they were offerings to be received with acceptance, an oblation before the Lord. 
And Mosheh took the breast, and uplifted it, an elevation before the Lord: of the ram of the oblations it was the portion of Mosheh, as the Lord had commanded Mosheh. 
And Mosheh took of the oil of consecration, and of the blood that was upon the altar, and sprinkled upon Aharon, upon his vestments, and upon his sons, and upon his sons’ vestments with him, and sanctified Aharon and his garments, and his sons and his sons’ garments with him. 
And Mosheh spake to Aharon and to his sons: Boil the flesh at the gate of the tabernacle of ordinance, and eat it there with the bread which is in the basket of oblations, as I was commanded, saying, Aharon and his sons shall eat it. 
And that which remaineth of the flesh and of the bread, you shall burn in the fire. 
And form the door of the tabernacle of ordinance ye shall not go forth (for) seven days, until the day that the days of your oblation be completed; for seven days shall your oblations be offered, 
as hath been done this day, (as) the Lord commanded to be done to make atonement for you. 
And at the door of the tabernacle of ordinance ye shall dwell seven days and nights, and watch the watches of the Word of the Lord, that you die not; for so am I commanded. 
And Aharon and his sons did all the things which the Lord had commanded by the hand of Mosheh. 
