Exodus.
Chapter 9.
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Go in unto Pharoh and say to him: Thus saith the Lord, the God of the Jehudaee; Send My people away, that they may serve before Me: 
For if thou refuse to send them away, and thou hast kept them until now, 
behold, a plague from before the Lord shall be upon thy cattle which are in the field; upon the horses, upon the asses, upon the camels, upon the oxen, and upon the sheep, a very great death. 
But the Lord will make distinction between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of the Mizraee; and of all that the children of Israel possess not one shall die. 
And the Lord set a time, saying, Tomorrow will the Lord do this thing in the land. 
And the Lord did that thing on the following day, and all the cattle of the Mizraee died; but of the cattle of the sons of Israel died not one. 
And Pharoh sent, and, behold, not one of the cattle of the sons of Israel had died. And Pharoh’s heart was hardened, and he would not send the people away. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh and Aharon, Take you handfuls of dust of the furnace, and let Mosheh scatter it towards the heavens in the presence of Pharoh; 
And it will be like fine powder upon all the land of Mizraim, and it shall be upon man and beast an inflammation growing into ulcers in all the land of Mizraim. 
And they took the dust of the furnace and stood before Pharoh; and Mosheh scattered it towards the heavens, and it became an inflammation of ulcers multiplying on man and beast. 
And the magicians could not stand before Mosheh, on account of the disease; for the disease was upon the magicians and upon all the Mizraee. 
And the Lord obdurated the heart of Pharoh, and he would not hearken to them, as the Lord had said to Mosheh. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Rise up in the morn-ing and stand before Pharoh, and say to him, Thus saith the Lord, the God of the Jehudaee Send My people away, that they may serve before Me: 
For at this time I will send all My plagues upon thy heart, and upon thy servants and thy people, that thou mayest know that there is no one like Me, the Ruler in all the earth. 
For now it is nigh before Me to send indeed My strong plagues, and smite thee and thy people with death, and cut thee off from the earth. 
For therefore have I raised thee up, that I may show thee My power, and that they may acknowledge the might of My name in all the earth. 
Until now hast thou kept My people down, that thou mayest not release them. 
Behold, I will cause to come down, as at this time tomorrow, hail most mighty, the like of which hath never been in Mizraim from the day that it was founded until now. 
And now, send, gather in thy cattle and all that thou hast in the field; for upon every man and beast that may be found in the field not gathered into the house the hail will fall, and they shall die. 
Who feared the word of the Lord among the servants of Pharoh collected his servants and his cattle unto the houses; 
But he who did not set his heart upon the word of the Lord, left his servants and his cattle in the field. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Uplift thy hand towards the heavens, and there shall be hail in all the land of Mizraim upon man, and beast, and every herb of the field throughout the land of Mizraim. 
And Mosheh lifted up the rod towards the heavens, and the Lord sent thunders, (voices,) and hail, and fire going upon the ground: and the Lord rained hail upon the land of Mizraim, 
And there was hail, and fire flaming among the hail, very mighty, such as the like of had not been in all the land of Mizraim since the time it had been for a people. 
And the hail smote in all the land of Mizraim all that was in the field from man to cattle, and every herb of the field the hail struck, and every tree of the field it brake. 
Only in the land of Goshen, where the sons of Israel were, there was no hail. 
And Pharoh sent and called for Mosheh and Aharon, and said to them, I have sinned this time; the Lord is righteous, and I and my people are guilty. 
Pray before the Lord that relief may be multiplied before Him, so that there may be upon us no more thunders of malediction like these before the Lord, nor hail; and I will send you away, and will not continue to detain you. 
And Mosheh said to him, When I shall have gone out of the city, I will spread forth my hands in prayer before the Lord, and the thunders shall cease, and there shall be no more hail, that you may know that the earth is the Lord’s. 
But (as for) thee and thy servants, I know that as yet ye are not humbled before the Lord God. 
And the flax and the barley were smitten, because the barley was earing and the flax was in flower: 
But the wheat and the spelt were not smitten, for they were later. 
And Mosheh went out of the city from Pharoh, and spread forth his hands in prayer before the Lord, and the thunders ceased, and the hail and the rain which had descended came not (more) upon the earth. 
And Pharoh saw that the rain had ceased, and the hail and the thunders, and he added yet to sin, and hardened his heart, he and his servants. 
And the heart of Pharoh was hardened, and he would not send away the sons of Israel, as the Lord had spoken by the hand of Mosheh. 
