Leviticus.
Chapter 2.
But if a man bring an oblation of a mincha before the Lord, his oblation shall be of meal, and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon, 
And bring it to the priests the sons of Aharon; and the priest shall take from it his handful of the meal with its oil, and all its frankincense, and burn the memorial of it at the altar; an oblation to be received with favour before the Lord. 
And that which remaineth of the mincha shall be Aharon’s and his sons’; it is most holy among the oblations of the Lord. 
And when thou bringest the oblation of a minch baked in the oven, it shall be of meal cake unleavened, mingled with oil, with unleavened wafers anointed with oil. 
And if the mincha be (prepared) in a pan, thy oblation shall be of meal mingled with oil; unleavened shall it be. 
And thou shalt break it in pieces, and pour oil thereon; it is a mincha. 
But if thy oblation be a mincha from the gridiron, thou shalt make it of meal with oil. 
And the mincha which is made of these thou shalt bring before the Lord, and present it to the priest, and he will offer it at the altar. 
And the priest shall separate its memorial from the mincha, and burn upon the altar an oblation to be received with favour before the Lord. 
And that which remaineth of the mincha shall be Aharon’s and his sons’: it is most holy among the oblations of the Lord. 
No mincha which you offer before the Lord may be made with leaven; for no leaven or honey shall you burn with any oblation before the Lord. 
In the oblation of firstfruits you may offer them before the Lord, but not burn them at the altar, that they may be accepted with favour. 
And every offering of thy mincha thou shalt salt with salt; and thou mayest not withhold the slat of the covenant of thy God from upon thy mincha; upon every oblation thou shalt offer salt. 
And when thou offerest the mincha of firstfruits before the Lord, green ears dried with fire, broken and soft, shalt thou offer as the mincha of thy firstfruits. 
And thou shalt put oil on it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is a mincha; 
And the priest shall burn its memorial of its broken grain and of its oil with all frankincense, an oblation before the Lord. 
