Exodus.
Chapter 33.
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Go, descend from hence, thou and the people thou hast brought up from the land of Mizraim, unto the land which I have covenanted unto Abraham, to Izhak, and to Jakob, saying, To thy sons will I give it. 
Arid I will send My Angel before thee, and will drive oat the Kenaanaee, the Amoraee, and Hittaee, and the Pherizaee, the Hivaee, and the Jebusaee; 
to the land producing milk and honey: for My Shekinah shall not go up among you, because thou art a hard-necked people, lest I destroy thee in the way. 
And the people heard these words of evil, and lamented, and no man put on his usual ornaments. 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, Say to the children of Israel, Ye are a hard-necked people; if one hour My Shekinah go up among thee, I should destroy thee. And now take off thy garnishing from thee, and it will appear before me what I shall do with thee. 
Arid the children of Israel removed their usual ornaments (on their return) from the mount of Horeb. 
Arid Mosheh took a tabernacle, and spread it for himself without the camp, at a distance from the camp, and called it the Tabernacle of the House of Instruction: and it was that everyone who sought instruction from before the Lord, went forth to the tabernacle of the house of instruction without the camp. 
And it came to pass that when Mosheh went forth to the tabernacle, all the people rose up, and stood, every man at the door of his tent, and looked after Mosheh until he had entered into the tabernacle. 
And it was when Mosheh had entered the tabernacle, the column of the Cloud descended and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and (He) spake with Mosheh. 
And all the people saw the column of the Cloud standing at the door of the tabernacle, and all the people arose and worshipped, every man at the door of his tent. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh word with word, as a man speaketh with his companion. And he returned to the camp; but his minister, Jehoshua bar Nun, a young man, did not remove from the tabernacle. 
And Mosheh said before the Lord, See, Thou hast said to me, Take this people up; but Thou hast not let me know whom Thou wilt send with me; yet Thou hast said, I have ordained thee by name, and thou hast found mercy before Me. 
And if now I have found mercy before Thee, show me, I pray, Thy good way, that I may know Thy loving-kindness, and may find mercy before Thee, and make it manifest before Thee that this people is Thy people. 
And He said, My Shekinah shall go, and I will give thee rest. 
And he said before Him, If Thy Shekinah goeth not among us, let us not ascend from hence. 
And in what shall it be known that I and Thy people have found mercy before Thee, if Thy Shekinah go not up with us, to make for us the distinction, and to distinguish me and Thy people from every people that is upon the face of the earth? 
And the Lord said to Mosheh, This thing that thou hast spoken will I do, because thou hast found mercy before Me, and I have ordained thee by name. 
And he said, Show me, I pray, Thy Glory! 
And He said, I will make all My Goodness pass before thy face, and I will proclaim the Name of the Lord before thee, and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and have mercy on whom I will have mercy. 
And He said, Thou canst not see the Face of My Shekinah; for no man can see Me and abide alive. 
And the Lord said, Behold, there is a place prepared before Me, and thou shalt stand upon the rock, 
and it shall be, when My Glory passeth, I will put thee in a cavern of the rock, and My Word shall overshadow thee until I have passed; 
And I will take away the Word (dibberath) of My Glory, and thou shalt see that which is after Me, but My Aspect shall not be seen. 
