Numbers.
Chapter 28.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
instruct the children of Israel, and say to them: My oblation, the ordained bread for My oblations to be received with acceptance, shall you observe to offer in its time. 
And thou shalt say to them: This is the oblation which you shall offer before the Lord; two lambs of the year unblemished daily, for a perpetual burnt offering. 
The one lamb shalt thou perform in the morning, and the second lamb between the suns. 
And with one-tenth of three seahs of flour for the mincha sprinkled with the fourth of a hin of beaten oil. 
It is a perpetual burnt offering, which was made in the mountain of Sinai, to be received with acceptance (as) an oblation before the Lord. 
And its libation shall be the fourth of a hin for each lamb; in the sanctuary shall the libation of old wine be poured out before the Lord. 
And the second lamb shalt thou perform between the suns, as the morning offering; and thou shalt make its libation (in like manner) an oblation to be received with acceptance before the Lord. 
But on the Sabbath day two lambs of the year unblemished, and two-tenths of flour for the mincha sprinkled with oil, and its libation. 
It is the Sabbath burnt offering which shall be performed on the Sabbath, together with the perpetual burnt offering and its libation. 
And in the beginnings of your months you shall offer a burnt offering before the Lord; two young bullocks, and one ram, lambs of the year, seven, unblemished. 
And three tenths of flour sprinkled with oil for each bullock, and two-tenths of flour for a mincha sprinkled with oil for the one ram, 
And a tenth of flour for a mincha sprinkled with oil for each lamb: it is a burnt offering to be received with acceptance as an oblation before the Lord. 
And their libations a half hina of wine shall be for the bullock, and the third of a hina for the ram, and a quarter of a hina for a lamb: this is the burnt offering for the beginning of the month, at its renewal; so shall it be for all the beginnings of the months of the year. 
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering before the Lord, beside the perpetual burnt offering, shalt thou make with its libation. 
And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is the Pascha before the Lord. 
And on the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days you shall eat unleavened (bread). 
On the first day shall be a holy convocation; you shall not do any servile work; 
But offer the oblation of a burnt offering before the Lord; two young bullocks and one ram, and seven lambs of the year without blemish shall you have; 
And their mincha of flour mingled with oil, three tenths for the bullock and two-tenths for the ram you shall make; 
a tenth shall you make for one lamb, so for the seven lambs. 
And one goat for a sin offering to make atonement for you; 
Besides the burnt sacrifice of the morning which is the perpetual burnt sacrifice, you shall make these. 
After the manner of these you shall do by the day for seven days; it is the bread of the oblation to be received with acceptance before the Lord; (with) the perpetual burnt offering and its libation shall it be made. 
And on the seventh day there shall be a holy convocation, (when) you may do no servile work. 
But on the day of the Firstfruits, when you bring the new thank-offering before the Lord in your expletion, there shall be a holy convocation; no servile work shall you do, 
But offer a burnt offering to be received with favour before the Lord; two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the year; 
And their mincha of flour mingled with oil, three tenths for one bullock, 
two-tenths for the ram, a tenth for each lamb of the seven lambs; 
One kid of the goats to make an atonement for you; 
Beside the perpetual burnt sacrifice and its mincha you shall (make) them unblemished, and their libations. 
