Numbers.
Chapter 33.
These are the journeys of the Beni Israel who went forth from the land of Mizraim in their hosts, by the hand of Mosheh and Aharon. 
And Mosheh wrote their goings out, and by their journeys by the Word of the Lord; and these are their journeys according to their goings out. 
And they went forth from Ramesis in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month, after the day of the Pascha, the children of Israel went out in full view of the eves of all the Mizraee. 
And the Mizraee buried all the firstborn which the Lord had slain among them, and upon their idols had the Lord wrought judgments. 
And the children of Israel proceeded from Ramesis, and encamped in Succoth. 
And they went on from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, which is on the side of the wilderness. 
And they removed from Etham, and returned upon PumHiratha, before Baal-Zephon, and pitched before Migdol. 
And they departed from Pum-Hiratha, and went through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and went, going three days in the wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Marah. 
And they removed from Marah, and came to Elim; and in Elim were twelve wells of water and seventy palm trees, and they encamped there. 
And they removed from Elim, and pitched by the Sea of Suph. 
And they removed from the Sea of Suph, and pitched in the wilderness of Sin. 
And they departed from the wilderness of Sin, and pitched in Dapheka; 
and they removed from Dapheka, and encamped in Alush. 
And they removed from Alush, and pitched in Rephidin; and there was no water for the people to drink. 
And they removed from Rephidin, and encamped in the wilderness of Sinai. 
And they removed from the wilderness of Sinai, and encamped at the Sepulchres of Desire. 
And they removed from the Sepulchres of Desire, and pitched in Hazeroth; 
and they removed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithema. 
And they removed from Rithema, and pitched in Rimmon-pharez. 
And they removed from Rimmon-pharez, and encamped in Libnah. 
And they removed from Libnah, and pitched in Resah. 
And they removed from Resah, and pitched in Kehelatha. 
And they removed from Kehelatha, and encamped at Mount Shapher. 
And they removed from Mount Shapher, and encamped in Harada. 
And they removed from Harada, and pitched in Makheloth. 
And they removed from Makheloth, and pitched in Tachath. 
And they removed from Tachath, and pitched in Tharah. 
And they removed from Tharah, and pitched in Mitheka. 
And they removed from Mitheka, and encamped in Hashmona. 
And they removed from Hashmona, and pitched in Moseroth. 
And they removed from Moseroth, and encamped in Beni Jaakan. 
And they removed from Beni Jaakan, and pitched at Mount Hagidgad. 
And they removed from Mount Hagidgad, and pitched in Jetbatha. 
And they removed from Jetbatha, and pitched in Ebrona. 
And they removed from Ebrona, and pitched in Ezion-Geber. 
And they removed from Ezion-Geber, and encamped in the wilderness of Zin, which is Rekem. 
And they removed from Rekem, and encamped at Mount Hor, on the borders of the land of Edom. 
And Aharon the priest went up on Mount Hor by the Word of the Lord, and died there in the fortieth year of the outgoing of the children of Israel from the land of Mizraim, in the fifth month, on the first of the month. 
And Aharon was a son of one hundred and twenty-three years when he died on Mount Hor. 
And the Kenaanite, king of Harad, who dwelt in the south, in the land of Kenaan, heard of the coming of the Beni Israel. 
And they removed from Mount Hor, and encamped in Zalmona. 
And they removed from Zalmona, and pitched in Phunon. 
And they removed from Phunon, and pitched in Aboth. 
And they removed from Aboth, and encamped at the Passing Fords on the border of Moab. 
And they removed from the Fords, and pitched at Dibon Gad. 
And they removed from Dibon Gad, and pitched in Elmon Diblathaimah. 
And they removed from Elmon Diblathaimah, and pitched at the mountains of Abaraee, which are before Nebo. 
And they removed from the mountains of Abaraee, and encamped in the plains of Moab by Jordan (over against) Jericho. 
And they encamped by the Jordan from Beth Jeshimoth unto the vale of Sittin in the fields of Moab. 
And the Lord spake with Mosheh in the fields of Moaba by the Jordan (near) Jericho, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say to them: When you have passed over Jordan to the land of Kenaan, 
You shall cast out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, demolish all the houses of their worship, destroy all their molten images, and lay waste all their high places. 
And you shall cast out the inhabitants of the land, and dwell in it; for I have given you the land to inherit. 
And you shall possess the land by lot, according to your families; to the many you shall make their possession large, and to the few diminish the possession: where the lot falleth to anyone, there shall he be; according to the tribes of your fathers you shall possess. 
But if you will not drive out the inhabitants of the country from before you, it will be that those who remain of them, combining, will take arms against you, and surrounding you with camps they will distress you in the land wherein you dwell. 
And it shall be that what I had thought to do unto them, I will do unto you. 
