Genesis.
Chapter 25.
And Abraham added, and took a wife, and her name was Keturah; 
And she bare to him Zimran, and Yokshan, and Medan, and Midyan, and Yeshbach, and Shuvach. 
And Yokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan; and the sons of Dedan have been in camps and tabernacles and islands. 
And the sons of Midyan, Eipha, and Epher, and Hanok, and Abidah, and Eldaah: all these the sons of Keturah. 
And Abraham gave all that he had unto Izhak. 
But to the sons of the concubine of Abraham gave Abraham portions, and sent them from his son Izhak, while he yet lived, eastward in the land of the sunrise. 
And these are the days of the years of the life of Abraham that he lived, an hundred and seventy and five years. 
And Abraham expired, and died in a good old age, aged, and full of days; and he was gathered unto his people. 
And Izhak and Ishmael his sons buried him in the twofold cave in the field of Ephron bar Zochar, the Hittah, which is before Mamre; 
the field that Abraham bought from the sons of Hittah: there they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife. 
And it was after the death of Abraham that the Lord blessed Izhak his son, and Izhak dwelt at the well over which the Eternal Angel had appeared. 
And these are the generations of Ishmael bar Abraham, whom Hagar the Mizretha, the handmaid of Sarah, bare to Abraham. 
And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael by their names in their generations. The firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, 
and Mibsam, and Mishma, and Duma, and Massa; 
Hadad, and Thema, Yetoor, Naphish, and Kedemah. 
These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names in their villages and their towns, twelve chiefs of their peoples. 
And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, a hundred and thirty and seven years. And he expired and died, and was gathered to his people. 
And they have dwelt from Havilah unto Hagra, which looketh toward Mizraim, reaching unto Athoor. In the presence of all his brethren he dwelt. 
And these are the generations of Izhak bar Abraham. Abraham begat Izhak; 
And Izhak was a son of forty years when he took Revekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Aramite of Padan Aram, the sister of Laban the Aramite, to be his wife. 
And Izhak prayed before the Lord for his wife, because she was barren; and the Lord hearkened to his prayer, and Revekah his wife conceived. 
And the children struggled in her womb; and she said, If thus, why have I conceived? And she went to seek instruction before the Lord: 
And the Lord said to her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two kingdoms from thy womb shall be divided, and (one) kingdom (shall be) stronger than (the other) kingdom, and the greater shall be subject to the less. 
And her days were fulfilled to give birth. And, behold, twins were in her womb. 
And the first came forth red, all of him as a garment (covering) of hair; and they called his name Esau. 
And afterwards came forth his brother, and his hand grasped the heel of Esau, and they called his name Jakob. And Izhak was sixty years old when he begat them. 
And the youths grew; and Esau was a man of idleness, a man going out into the field; and Jakob was a man of peace, a minister of the house of instruction. 
And Izhak loved Esau, because he ate of his hunting, and Rivekah loved Jakob. 
And Jakob dressed pottage, and Esau came from the field, and he was faint. 
And Esau said to Jakob, Let me taste now of that red, that red! For I am faint: (therefore he called his name Edom:) 
and Jakob said, Sell this day thy birthright to me. 
And Esau said, Behold, I am going to die, and what is this birthright to me? 
And Jakob said, Swear to me today; and he sware to him and he sold his birthright to Jakob. 
And Jakob gave to Esau bread and pottage of lentiles. And he ate and drank, and arose, and went: and Esau despised the birthright. 
