Genesis.
Chapter 5.
This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that the Lord God created man, in the resemblance of Elohim He made him; 
Male and female He created them; and He blessed them, and called their name Man, in the day that they were created. 
And Adam lived a hundred and thirty years, and begat in his resemblance (one) who was like to himself, and he called his name Sheth. 
And the days of Adam after he had begotten Sheth were eight hundred years, and be begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Adam which he lived were nine hundred and thirty years, and he died. 
And Sheth lived a hundred and five years, and begat Enosh. 
And Sheth lived after he had begotton Enosh eight hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Sheth were nine hundred and twelve years, and he died. 
And Enosh lived ninety years, and begat Keinan. 
And Enosh lived after he had begotten Keinan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years, and he died. 
And Keinan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalalel. 
And Keinan lived after he had begotten Mahalalel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Keinan were nine hundred and ten years, and be died. 
And Mahalalel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jered. 
And Mahalalel lived after he had begotten Jered eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred and ninety and five years, and he died. 
And Jered lived an hundred and sixty and two years, and begat Hanok. 
And Jered lived after he had begotten Hanok eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty and two years, and he died. 
And Hanok lived sixty and five years, and begat Methushelach. 
And Hanok walked in the fear of the Lord, after he had begotten Methushelach, three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Hanok were three hundred and sixty and five years. 
And Hanok walked in the fear of the Lord; and he was not; for the Lord had not made him to die. 
And Methushelach lived an hundred and eighty and seven years, and begat Lemek. 
And Methushelach lived after he had begotten Lemek seven hundred and eighty and two years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Methushelach were nine hundred and sixty and nine years, and he died. 
And Lemek lived a hundred and eighty and two years, and begat a son. 
And he called his name Noach, saying, This shall console us from the works and from the labour of our hands from the earth which the Lord bath cursed. 
And Lemek lived, after he had begotten Noach, five hundred and ninety and five years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Lemek were seven hundred and seventy and seven years, and he died. 
And Noach was a son of five hundred years, and Noach begat Shem, Cham, and Japheth. 
