Leviticus.
Chapter 9.
And on the eighth day Mosheh called Aharon and his sons and the elders of Israel. 
And he said unto Aharon, Take to thee a calf, a young bullock from the herd, for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering unblemished, and offer before the Lord. 
And with the sons of Israel he spake, saying, Take a kid of the goats for a sin offering, and a calf, and a lamb of the year, unblemished, for a burnt offering, 
To sacrifice before the Lord; and a mincha of flour sprinkled with oil: for this day will the glory of the Lord be revealed to you. 
And what Mosheh had commanded they brought before the tabernacle of ordinance, and all the congregation approached and stood before the Lord. 
And Mosheh said, This is the thing that the Lord hath commanded to be done, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed to you. 
And Mosheh said to Aharon, Approach the altar, and make thy sin offering and thy burnt sacrifice, and make atonement for thyself and for the people, and perform the oblation of the people, and make atonement for them, as the Lord commanded. 
And Aharon drew near to the altar, and slew the calf for the sin offering for himself. 
And the sons of Aharon brought the blood to him, and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar. 
But the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul of the liver of the sin offering he burned at the altar, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And the flesh and the skin he burned in the fire without the camp. 
And he killed the whole burnt offering; and the sons of Aharon brought the blood to him, and he sprinkled it upon the altar round about. 
And they brought to him the whole burnt offering by its members with the head, and he burned upon the altar. 
And he washed the inwards and the legs, and burned with the offering at the altar. 
And he brought the oblation of the people, and took the kid for the sin offering of the people, and killed it, and made atonement with its blood, as before. 
And he brought the whole burnt offering, and performed in the manner proper. 
And he took the mincha, and filled his hand with it, and burned it upon the altar beside the morning sacrifice. 
And he slew the bullock and the ram for the hallowed oblations of the people; and the sons of Aharon brought the blood to him, and he sprinkled the blood round about. 
Also the fats of the bullock and of the ram, the tail, and the covering of the inwards, with the kidneys, and the caul of the liver; 
And they placed the fats upon the breast, and burned the fats at the altar. 
And the breast with the right shoulder Aharon uplifted, an elevation before the Lord, as the Lord commanded Mosheh. 
And Aharon lifted up his hands over (to) the people and blessed them, and cane down from performing the sin offering, and the burnt sacrifice, and the hallowed oblations. 
And Mosheh and Aharon entered the tabernacle of ordinance, and came forth and blessed the people; and the glory of the Lord was revealed unto all the people: 
And fire came forth from before the Lord, and consumed upon the altar the burnt sacrifice and the fats: and all the people saw, and gave praise, and fell upon their faces. 
