Deuteronomy.
Chapter 7.
When the Lord thy God shall bring thee into the land into which thou goest to possess it, and cast out many peoples from before thee, the Hittites Girgashites, Amorites, Kenaanites, Pherizites, Hivites, and Jebusites, seven nations, greater and mightier than thou, 
and shall deliver them up before thee; then thou shalt smite and utterly consume them; thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor show mercy upon them. 
Neither shalt thou intermarry with them; thou shalt not give thy daughter to his son, nor take his daughter for thy son. 
For they will cause thy son to go astray from serving Me, and they will worship the idols of the Gentiles, and the anger of the Lord will be kindled against you, and He will destroy thee speedily. 
But thus shall you do to them: you shall pull down their altars, break their statues in pieces, cut down their (sacred) groves and burn their images with fire. 
For thou art a people consecrated before the Lord thy God, thee hath the Lord thy God chosen to be to Him a people more beloved than all peoples upon the face of the earth. 
Not because you were greater than any of the peoples, bath the Lord chosen and befriended you, for you were smaller than any of the peoples; 
But because the Lord had mercy on you, and that He would keep the covenant He sware to your fathers, hath the Lord brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed thee from the house of bondage, out of the hand of Pharoh, the king of Mizraim. 
Know, then, that the Lord thy God, He is God, a faithful God, keeping covenant and mercy for them who love Him and keep His commandments to a thousand generations, 
But repaying them who hate Him the good which they have done before Him in their lives, to destroy them (in the life to come?). He delayeth not to do good to His enemies for the good they may have wrought before Him in their lives, to repay them. 
Thou shalt therefore observe the commandments, statutes, and judgments, which I command thee this day, to do them. 
And it shall be that because thou wilt have obeyed these judgments, and have observed and performed them, the Lord thy God will keep with thee the covenant and the mercy which He sware to thy fathers. 
And He will love thee, and bless thee, and multiply thee, and will bless the offspring of thy womb, the fruit of thy land, thy corn, wine, and oil, the herds of thy oxen, and the flocks of thy sheep, on the land which He sware to thy fathers to give thee. 
Blessed shalt thou be above all peoples; there shall not be among thee a barren male or a barren female, neither among thy cattle. 
And the Lord thy God will remove from thee all diseases, and all the plagues of Mizraim; the evil things that thou knowest He will not lay upon thee, but will put them on all that hate thee. 
And thou shalt consume all the peoples that the Lord thy God will give up to thee; thine eye shall not have pity upon them, nor shalt thou serve their idols, for that will be a stumbling-block to thee. 
If thou say in thy heart, These nations are greater than I am: how can I drive them out? 
Thou shalt not be afraid of them; remembering thou shalt remember what the Lord thy God did to Pharoh and all Mizraim; 
The great miracles which thine eye beheld, and the signs and wonders, the mighty hand and uplifted arm, by which the Lord thy God led thee forth; so shall the Lord thy God do to all the nations before whom thou art afraid. 
And moreover, the Lord thy God will stir up the hornet among them, until they who remain and who hid themselves from before thee have perished. 
Thou shalt not be broken down before them; for the Lord thy God dwelleth in the midst of thee, the Great and fearful God. 
And the Lord thy God will put away those nations before thee by little and little; for thou mayest not consume them instantly, lest the wild beast of the field multiply against thee. 
Yet will the Lord thy God deliver them up before thee, and destroy them with a great destruction, till they be consumed; 
And He will deliver their kings into thy hand, and destroy their names from under the heavens, and not a man will stand before thee till thou wilt have destroyed them. 
The images of their idols thou shalt burn with fire; thou shalt not desire the silver or the gold upon them, nor take (it) to thyself, lest thou offend through it, for it is an abomination before the Lord thy God. 
Nor shalt thou bring what is abominable into thy house, and thou be accursed as that is; but with loathing thou shalt loathe it, and with abhorrence abhor it, for it is a thing accursed. 
