Leviticus.
Chapter 11.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh and to Aharon, saying to them: 
Speak with the children of Israel, saying: These are the animals which you may eat of all the beasts which are upon the earth. 
Everyone that parteth the sole and divideth the paw (or hoof) and that bringeth up the cud among the cattle, that you may eat. 
But these you shall not eat, of them that bring up the cud or of them that divide the hoof: the camel, because he bringeth up the cud, but divideth not his hoof, he is unclean to you. 
And the coney, because he bringeth up the cud, but doth not divide the hoof, is unclean to you. 
And the hare, because he bringeth up the cud, but the hoof divideth not, shall be unclean to you. 
And the swine, because he parteth the sole, and divideth the hoof, but cheweth not the cud, he shall be unclean to you. 
You shall neither eat their flesh nor touch their carcases; they are unclean to you. 
And these you may eat of all that are in the waters; everyone that hath fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, of them you may eat. 
But anyone that hath not (both) fins and scales in the seas and in the rivers; every (such) reptile of the waters, and every living animal in the waters, shall they be to you; 
of their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcases you shall abhor; 
Whatsoever hat not (both) fins and scales in the waters is to be an abomination to you. 
And these shall you hold in abomination among the birds; you shall not eat them, they are an abomination: the eagle, and the sea eagle, and the osprey, 
And the kite, and the vulture, after his kind; 
And every raven after his kind; 
And the ostrich, and the nightbird, and the gull, and the hawk, after his kind; 
And the owl, and the diver for fish, and the ibis, 
and the swan, and the green bird, 
and the stork, and the pica, after his kind, and the moorcock, and the bat. 
Every winged thing that creepeth, (or) walketh upon four, is an abomination to you. 
Yet these you may eat, of every creeping thing that flieth, that walketh upon four which hath joints above its feet wherewith to leap upon the ground. 
Of such as these you may eat, the locust after his kind, and the bald locust, and the serpent-killer after his kind, and the grasshopper after his kind; 
But every other creeping thing that flieth having four feet is to be an abomination to you. 
And by these you will be unclean; everyone who toucheth their carcases shall be unclean until the evening. 
And whosoever carrieth a carcase of them, shall was his clothes and be unclean until the evening; 
every beast that divideth the hoof, but is not cloven-footed, and that bringeth not up the cud, is to be unclean to you; whosoever toucheth them shall be unclean. 
And every (animal) that goeth upon its paws, of all beast that go upon four, shall be unclean to you; whoever toucheth their carcases shall be unclean until the evening. 
And whoever carrieth their carcase shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening; to you they are unclean. 
And these shall be to you unclean among the reptiles which creep upon the ground; the weasel, and the mouse, and the crocodile after his kind, 
and the field mouse (or ferret,) and the chameleon, and the newt, and the lizards, and the mole. 
These are unclean to you of all that creep; everyone who toucheth them in their dead state shall be unclean until evening. 
And upon whatever any of them may fall in their dead state it shall be unclean; whether a vessel of wood, or raiment, or skin, or sack, everything whatever in which work is done, must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the evening, and must be purified. 
And whatever earthen vessel into which any of them may fall, all that is within (it) is polluted, and you shall break it. 
Any food for eating, upon which water (from such a vessel) is poured, shall be unclean, and all liquor which was for drinking in any (such) vessel shall be unclean. 
And anything upon which a part of their dead bodies may have fallen shall be unclean; oven or cooking pan, they shall be broken, they are unclean and shall be unclean to you. 
Nevertheless, a fountain or a pit, the place of a collection of waters, (into which they may have fallen,) shall be clean; but he who toucheth their dead bodies shall be unclean. 
And if a part of their carcase fall upon any seeding seed which is to be sown, it is clean; 
But if water be put upon the seed, and a part of their carcase fall their fall thereupon, it is unclean to you. 
And if anyone of the cattle of which you eat die, whosoever toucheth its carcase shall be unclean until the evening. 
And he who eateth of its carcase shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening. And he who may carry its carcase shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening. 
And every reptile that creepeth upon the ground is abominable, it shall not be eaten. 
Whatsoever goeth upon its belly, and whatever goeth upon four, anything that hath many feet, and every reptile that creepeth, you shall not eat, for they are an abomination. 
Ye shall not make yourselves abominable with your animals by any reptile that creepeth, nor make yourselves unclean, nor be polluted by them, lest by them you be made unclean. 
For I am the Lord your God; sanctify yourselves and be holy, for I am Holy; that you may not contaminate your souls with any reptile which creepeth upon the ground; 
For I am the Lord who brought you up from the land of Mizraim to be unto you a God; and you shall be holy, for I am Holy. 
This is the law of the cattle, and of the fowl, and of every living animal that moveth in the waters, and of every living thing that moveth on the ground, 
for making a distinction between the unclean and the clean, between the animal that may be eaten, and the animal that may not be eaten. 
