Exodus.
Chapter 26.
And thou shalt make THE TABERNACLE (of) ten curtains of fine linen twined, and hyacinth, and purple, and vermilion, (and) figures of kerubin, the work of the artificer shalt thou make them. 
The length of one curtain twenty and eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits; the measure of all the curtains shall be one. 
Five curtains shall be conjoined one with another, and five curtains conjoined one with another. 
And thou shalt make loops of hyacinth upon the edge of one curtain in the side on which it is joined, and so shalt thou do on the border of the second curtain in the side on which it is joined. 
Fifty loops shalt thou make in the one curtain, and fifty loops shalt thou make in the side of the curtain which is in the place of the second coupling, that the loops, may answer one with another. 
And thou shalt make fifty taches of gold, and loop the curtains one with another with the taches, that it may be one Tabernacle. 
And thou shalt make curtains of goat’s (hair) to stretch over the tabernacle; eleven curtains thou shalt make them. 
The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits; of one measure shall be the eleven curtains. 
And thou shalt loop five curtains together, and six curtains together, and fold the sixth curtain against the front of the tabernacle. 
And thou shalt make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain where it is conjoined, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain at the place of the second conjoinment. 
And thou shalt make fifty taches of brass, and introduce the taches into the loops, and conjoin the tabernacle that it may be one. 
And the overplus which remaineth of the tabernacle curtains, the half curtain, (namely,) thou shalt stretch over the hinder side of the tabernacle. 
And the cubit on this and the cubit on that (side) which remain in the length of the curtains of the tabernacle shall be spread over the sides of the tabernacle, here and there, to cover it. 
And thou shalt make a covering for the tabernacle of rams’ skins dyed red, and a covering of purple skins above. 
And thou shalt make the standing-boards of the tabernacle of sittin woods. 
Ten cubits the length of one board, and a cubit and a half its breadth. 
Two tenons (shall there be) to each board, fastened over against one another; so shalt thou make all the boards of the tabernacle. 
And thou shalt make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards on the southern side. 
And forty bases of silver shalt thou make under the twenty boards; two bases under one board for its two tenons, and two bases under one board for its two tenons. 
And for the second side of the tabernacle, on the northern side, twenty boards 
And their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another. 
And for the side of the tabernacle westward thou shalt make six boards. 
And two boards thou shalt make at the corners of the tabernacle at their extremities; 
And they shall be united below and likewise united at head with one ring; so shall it be with both of them for the two corners. 
And they shall be eight boards, and their silver bases, sixteen bases; two bases under one board, and two bases under the other board. 
And thou shalt make bars of sittin woods, five for the boards of one side of the tabernacle, 
and five bars for the boards of the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the end side of the tabernacle toward the west. 
And the middle bar in the midst of the boards shall pass from end to end. 
And the boards thou shalt overlay with gold, and the rings make thou of gold, the place for the bars, and cover the bars with gold. 
And thou shalt erect the tabernacle after the manner of it which hath been showed thee on the mount. 
And thou shalt make A VEIL, of hyacinth, and purple, and vermilion, and fine linen twined with the work of the artificer, it shall be made, figured with kerubin. 
And thou shalt set it upon four pillars of sittin covered with gold, and their hooks shall be of gold upon four bases of silver. 
And thou shalt put the veil under the taches, and shalt bring in thither within the veil the Ark of the Testament; and the veil shall separate to you between the Holy and the Holy of Holies. 
And thou shalt set the Mercy Seat upon the ark of the Testament in the Holy of Holies. 
And place thou the table without the veil, and the candelabrum over against the table at the south side of the tabernacle, and the table place thou at the north side. 
And thou shalt make a curtain for the door of the tabernacle of hyacinth, and purple, and vermilion, and fine linen twined, the work of the embroiderer; 
And make for the curtain five pillars of sittin, and overlay them with gold, and their hooks shall be of gold; and shalt set them upon five bases of brass. 
