Genesis.
Chapter 41.
And it was at the end of two years that Pharoh dreamed, and, behold, he stood by the River. 
And, behold, there came up from the River seven oxen, goodly in appearance, and fat-fleshed; and they grazed in the meadow. 
And, behold, seven other oxen came up from the river after them, evil in appearance, and leanfleshed; and they stood beside them by the bank of the river. 
And the evil-looking and lean-fleshed oxen ate up the seven well-looking and fat ones: and Pharoh awoke. 
And he slept, and dreamed a second (time); and, behold, seven ears rose up from one stalk, large and good, 
and, behold, seven ears, thin, and blighted (with the) east (wind), sprang up after them. 
And the seven wasted ears devoured the seven large and full ears. And Pharoh awoke, and, behold, a dream. 
And when it was morning his spirit was troubled, and he sent and called all the magicians of Mizraim, and all the wise men; and Pharoh related the dreams to them, but they could not interpret them to Pharoh. 
And the chief of the cupbearers spake to Pharoh, saying, My faults I do remember this day. 
Pharoh was displeased with his servants, and gave me into custody at the house of the chief executioner, and the chief baker with me. 
And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, we dreamed. 
And with us there was a Hebrew youth, a servant of the chief executioner; and we recounted to him, and he explained to us our dreams, to each man according to his dream be explained; 
And according as he had explained to us, so it was: me he restored to my service, and him he hanged. 
And Pharoh sent, and called Joseph, and made him hasten from the prison; and he dressed his hair, and changed his garments, and came unto Pharoh. 
And Pharoh said to Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is no one to interpret it. And I have heard of thee, saying, that thou hearest a dream, and dost interpret it. 
And Joseph answered Pharoh, saying, Not from my wisdom, but from before the Lord, will there be an answer of peace unto Pharoh. 
And Pharoh spake with Joseph, saying, In my dream, behold, I stood upon the bank of the River; 
and, behold, from the River rose up seven oxen, fat-fleshed and goodly in appearance, and they grazed in the meadow. 
And, behold, seven other oxen came up after them, lean and most evil in appearance, so wanting in flesh, that their like I have not seen in all the land of Mizraim for badness. 
And the lean oxen and evil ones ate up the seven first fat oxen. 
And they entered into their stomachs; but it could not be known that they had entered into their stomachs, for their appearance was bad as before; and I awoke. 
I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears of corn arose on one stalk, full and good. 
And, behold, seven (other) ears, hard, thin, and blasted (with the) east (wind), sprang up after them. 
And the thin ears devoured the seven good ears. And I told it to the magicians, but there was no one who could show it to me. 
And Joseph answered Pharoh, The dream of Pharoh is one. That which the Lord is about to do He hath showed to Pharoh. 
The seven good oxen are seven years; and the seven good ears of corn are seven years; the dream is one. 
And the seven lean and evil oxen which came up after them are seven years; and the seven ears, thin, and blasted with the east wind, are seven years of famine. 
This is the word which I have spoken to Pharoh. What the Lord is about to do, He hath showed to Pharoh. 
Behold, there come seven years of great plenty in all the land of Mizraim. 
And after them will arise seven years of famine, and all the plenty in the land of Mizraim will be forgotten, and the famine will consume the people of the land. 
And plenty will not be known in the land for that famine which will be afterward; for it will be very mighty. 
And forasmuch as the dream was repeated to Pharoh twice, it is a confirmed thing before the Lord, and the Lord will hasten to do it. 
And now let Pharoh look out a prudent and wise man, and appoint him over the land of Mizraim. 
Let Pharoh do this, and appoint officers (faithful men) over the land, and let them sow the land of Mizraim in the seven years of plenty, 
And collect all the produce of those good years that come, and lay up provision under the hand of Pharoh’s officers, and preserve it in the cities: 
And it will be provision for the people of the land in the seven years of famine that are coming in the land of Mizraim, that the people of the land may not be consumed by the famine. 
And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharoh, and in the eyes of all his servants. 
And Pharoh said to his servants, Can we find a man like this, in whom is the spirit of prophecy from the Lord? 
And Pharoh said to Joseph, Since the Lord hath made all this known to thee, there is none more prudent or wise than thou; 
Thou shalt be appointed over my house, and by thy word shall all my people be governed; only in the throne of this kingdom will I be more honorable than thou. 
And Pharoh said to Joseph, See, I have appointed thee over all the land of Mizraim. 
And Pharoh took off his ring from his hand, and set it upon Joseph’s hand, and clothed him in a robe of lawn, and put a chain of gold upon his neck. 
And he made him ride in his own second chariot, and they proclaimed before him, This is the father of the king; and he appointed him over all the land of Mizraim. 
And Pharoh said to Joseph, I am Pharoh; and without thy word shall no man lift up his hand to hold a weapon, nor his foot to mount a horse, in all the land of Mizraim. 
And Pharoh called the name of Joseph, The man to whom mysteries are revealed. And he gave him Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera, prince of On, to be his wife; and Joseph went forth ruling over the land of Mizraim. 
And Joseph was a son of thirty years when he stood before Pharoh, king of Mizraim. And Joseph went out from before Pharoh, and passed through all the land of Mizraim. 
And the inhabitants of the land collected in the seven years of plenty the provision into granaries. 
And he collected all the provision of the seven years which was in the land of Mizraim, and laid up the provision in cities, in the midst of each city the provision of the land surrounding it. 
And Joseph gathered provision as the sand of the sea, exceeding much, until he ceased to number, for it was without number. 
And unto Joseph were born two sons, (before the year of famine came,) which Asenath, daughter of Potiphera, prince of On, bare to him. 
And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Menasheh; because the Lord hath made me to forget all my labour and all my father’s house. 
And the name of the second he called Ephraim; because the Lord hath made me to increase in the land of my servitude. 
And the seven years of plenty which were in the land of Mizraim were completed. 
And the seven years of famine began to come, as Joseph had said; and the famine was in all the lands, but in all the land of Mizraim there was bread. 
Yet all the land of Mizraim was famished, and the people cried before Pharoh for bread: and Pharoh said to all the Mizraee, Go unto Joseph, and what he shall say to you, do. 
And the famine was over all the face of the land; and Joseph opened all the granaries in which was the corn, and sold to the Mizraee, and the famine became mighty in the land of Mizraim. 
And all the inhabitants of the earth came into Mizraim to buy corn of Joseph, because the famine was mighty in all the earth. 
