Leviticus.
Chapter 18.
And the Lord spake with Mosheh, saying: 
Speak with the sons of Israel, and say unto them: I am the Lord your God: 
You shall not do according to the people of the land of Mizraim in which you dwelt, nor after the works of the people of the land of Kenaan, whither I am bringing you, shall you do, neither shall you walk in their laws. 
My judgments shall you perform and keep My statutes to walk in them; I am the Lord your God. 
And you shall keep My statutes and My judgments, which if a man do he shall live by them an everlasting life. I am the Lord. 
No man shall come nigh to any of his own flesh to uncover the nakedness; I am the Lord. 
The nakedness of thy father, or the nakedness of thy mother, thou shalt not uncover. She is thy mother; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. 
The nakedness of thy father’s wife thou shalt not uncover, it is thy father’s nakedness. 
The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter of thy father, or the daughter of thy mother, who hath been begotten of thy father by another wife, or of thy mother by another husband, their nakedness thou shalt not uncover. 
The nakedness of thy son’s daughter, or the daughhter of thy daughter, thou shalt not uncover; for they are thy nakedness. 
The nakedness of the daughter of thy father’s wife who hath been begotten of thy father, who is thy sister, thou shalt not uncover. 
The nakedness of thy father’s sister thou shalt not uncover; she is of kin to thy father. 
The nakedness of thy mother’s sister thou shalt not uncover; for she is of kin to thy mother. 
The nakedness of thy father’s brother thou shalt not uncover; unto his wife thou shalt not come near; she is the wife of thy father’s brother. 
The nakedness of thy daughter-in-law thou shalt not uncover; she is thy son’s wife, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. 
The nakedness of thy brother’s wife thou shalt not uncover; it is thy brother’s nakedness. 
The nakedness of a woman and of her daughter thou shalt not uncover; thou shalt not take the daughter of her son nor the daughter of her daughter to uncover her nakedness; they are near of kin, it is a device of wickedness. 
And a wife with her sister thou shalt not take to cause her tribulation by uncovering her nakedness over her in her life (time). 
And unto a woman in the separation of her uncleanness shalt thou not come near to uncover her nakedness. 
Nor with the wife of thy neighbour shalt thou carnally lie to defile her. 
And of thy children thou shalt give none to transfer them to Molek, (or, to make them pass through to Molek,) neither shalt thou profane the Name of the Lord thy God: I am the Lord. 
And with the male thou shalt not lie as with the woman; it is an abhorrent thing. 
Nor with any beast shall be thy lying down to defile thyself with it; neither shall a woman stand before a beast to permit him to prevail with her; it is confusion. 
Ye shall not pollute yourselves with any of these; for with all these have the peoples defiled themselves whom I am about to drive away from before you. 
And the land (itself) is contaminated; and I will visit the guilt that is upon it, and the land shall vomit forth the inhabitants. 
But you shall keep My statutes and My judgments, and commit none of these abominations, neither the native-born nor the sojourners who sojourn among you; 
For all these abominations have been done by the men of the land who have been before you, and the land hath been polluted; 
That the land vomit you not out when ye defile it; as it will have cast out the people who were before you. 
For whoso committeth any of these abominations, the souls that do them shall be destroyed from among their people. 
And you shall observe the keeping of My word, that you do not (according to) the abominable usages which have been done before You, nor be corrupted by them. I am the Lord your God. 
