Genesis.
Chapter 22.
And it was after these things that the Lord tempted Abraham; and He said to him, Abraham! And he said, Behold, I am. 
And He said, Take now thy son, thy only, whom thou lovest, Izhak, and go into the land of worship, and offer him before Me there, a burnt offering, upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee. 
And Abraham arose in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Izhak his son, and clave the wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which the Lord had spoken to him. 
And in the third day Abraham lifted, up his eyes, and saw the place from afar. 
And Abraham said to his young men, Wait you here with the ass, and I and the young man will ascend yonder and worship, and return to you. 
And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid on Izhak his son; and he took in his hand the fire and the knife, and they went both of them as one. 
And Izhak spake to Abraham his father, and said, Father! And he said, Behold, I am, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood; but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? 
And Abraham said, The lamb for the burnt offering is revealed before the Lord, my son. And they went, both of them, as one. 
And they came to the place of which the Lord had told him. And Abraham builded there the altar, and set in order the woods, and bound Izhak his son, and laid him upon the altar above the woods. 
And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to cut off his son. 
And the Angel of the Lord called to him from the heavens, and said, Abraham, Abraham! And he said, Behold, I am. 
And he said to him, Stretch not out thy hand upon the youth, neither do anything to him: for now I know that thou fearest the Lord, and that thou hast not spared thy only son for Me. 
And Abraham lifted up his eyes after these (words), and saw, and behold, one ram, holden in the bush by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him for a burnt offering instead of his son. 
And Abraham worshipped and prayed there in that place, and said before the Lord, Here shall generations worship: wherefore it shall be paid in that day, In this mountain Abraham worshipped before the Lord. 
And the Angel of the Lord called to Abraham the second time from the heavens, 
And said, By my Word have I sworn, saith the Lord, because thou hast done this thing, and hast not spared thy only son, 
therefore, blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thy sons as the stars of heaven and as the sand which is on the sea shore; and thy sons shall inherit the cities of their enemies. 
And all the peoples of the earth shall be blessed through thy son: forasmuch as thou hast received My word. 
And Abraham returned to his young men, and they arose and went together unto Beer Shava, and Abraham dwelt in Beer Shava. 
And it was after these things it was shown to Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcha, also, hath born sons to Nachor, thy brother: 
Uts his first-born, and Booz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram, 
and Kesed, and Chazu, and Phildash, and Yedlaph, and Bethuel. 
And Bethuel begat Revekah. These eight bare Milcha to Nahor, brother of Abraham. 
And his concubine, whose name was Reuma, she also bare Tebach, and Gacham, and Tachash, and Maaka. 
