Ephesians.
Chapter 4.
Listen to what I, who am in jail, am telling you. I am in jail because I belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. God has chosen you to be his own people. So you who belong to him should go straight on his road. 
Don't be proud, but go quietly on God's road. Be gentle and patient. And don't get tired of each other but keep loving one another all the time. 
God has brought us together by his Spirit to make us friends. So you should really want to stay together, to love and help each other in peace. 
We are all one people. We are like one body. And God has given his one Spirit to us all. He has chosen us all in the same way so that we can hope in him in the same way. 
There is one Lord and we trust in him in the same way, and we have been baptized in the same way. 
There is only one God and one Father of us all. He rules over us all and over all the world. He takes us all to do his work and he is among us. 
God's word tells us that Christ has gone back to his Father in heaven. It says, “He went first to heaven, and took many people with him. And they followed him afterwards. Then he gave good things to his people.” You know that first Christ came down from above, and he was born like us and lived like us in the world. Then afterwards the same one who came down went up again, so that he could be everywhere and give us good things. Christ has freely given good things to each one of us. 
What kinds of good things has Christ given to us? He has given different kinds of work to us his people and he helps us to do that work. He has chosen some of us to be apostles, and some to be prophets to tell people his word, and some to tell people who don't know him about Jesus Christ so that they may believe in him too. And he has chosen some to look after his people and some to teach them his word. 
Yes, that's right, Christ has chosen us workers to make each other strong. We should help each other to be strong to work for him all the time. 
We should help each other until we all have the same faith in God's Son. And we should help each other until we all know him in the same way, until we become really strong. We should let our minds keep growing until we become wise like Christ. Then we will understand God's word. We shouldn't be like children who don't understand yet. 
Listen. Some people might tell us lies, first one thing and then another. They might make up different things and then want to teach them to us, but we mustn't listen to things like that. We should be strong and keep on going on God's straight road. 
We must speak the truth. We mustn't speak angrily to people but quietly, so that they know that we love them. We must try to be like Christ, the one who rules over us. He is like the head and we are like his body, 
with its arms and legs. The head controls the arms and the legs. When your legs are doing good work and getting strong, and when your arms are also doing good work and getting strong, then your body will work well and be strong. In that way Christ controls us God's people. And we must each keep on working well and loving each other. Then we will make each other strong in one group. 
I am speaking to you for the Lord Jesus Christ, and so I am warning you. Don't go on living like people who don't know God. Their thoughts are no good. So don't be like them. 
Those people are hard. They don't want God and they have turned their backs on him. They don't have the real life that God gives us. They walk in the dark. They are blind. 
They are no longer ashamed of what they are doing. They have decided to do wrong. They don't think about anything good, only what is bad. They keep on running off with people they shouldn't be with. Those people who don't know God are always doing all kinds of bad things. 
But those who taught you didn't tell you to do those kinds of things. 
They taught you the truth about Jesus and you heard their words and so you know about him. 
So don't go on doing what you used to do, because those bad things you wanted were spoiling you. Get rid of sin, just like you get rid of old clothes that are no use now. 
Do what is good with a clean mind, just as though you are putting on good, new clothes. 
Start that good new way like new people, because God has made you new like himself. So walk straight on God's road all the time. 
So you must not tell lies any more. When God's people are talking together, you must tell the truth, because we are all in one group with Christ like friends. 
When you get angry, don't do wrong. And don't stay angry all day. 
And don't let Satan get into you. 
You thieves who have been stealing things must stop stealing and work now. You must do good work to get honest money so you can share with poor people. 
And this is another thing. Don't speak carelessly with unkind words. Only use good words so that you can help other people and encourage them. 
God has chosen you to be his own people. And he has freely given you his Holy Spirit, so that you will know that you are truly his, and that he will set you free. So don't make God's Spirit sad. 
Get rid of swearing and angry words. Don't keep on shouting. Don't tease other people. And don't keep telling bad things about other people. And don't be always hating each other, 
but be kind to one another and love each other. And forgive each other's sins as God forgives you your sins. God forgives you because Christ has died for you. 
