1 Timothy.
Chapter 3.
If any man wants to lead God's people and look after them, then he is wanting a good work. Truly that work is good. 
But what kind of person should lead God's people? He must be good all the time. He must have only one wife. He must only think about what is good. He must speak gently without getting angry. When strangers come, he must ask them into his home and make them comfortable. And he must be good at teaching people God's word. 
He must not get drunk or be a troublemaker. He must be gentle with people and peaceful. And he must not love money. 
He must look after his own family well and control his children so that they obey him. 
If a man can't look after his own family, how can he look after God's people? He can't do it. 
But a church leader mustn't be someone who has only known God for a short time, he should be someone who has known God for a long time. If he has only known God for a short time, he might be proud and he might think, “I am an important person.” If he thinks that, then God will say, “That person is very bad.” Long ago Satan too thought he was important. But God said, “Satan is bad.” That kind of person shouldn't be a leader over God's people. 
When people who don't know God see a man leading God's people, they should say, “That man is very good.” But if they say, “He is bad,” then he shouldn't be a leader over God's people because Satan will control him and those people who don't know God will shame him. 
Church helpers must also be good. When people see them they will say, “Those people are very good.” But those helpers mustn't have two minds. They must not drink too much wine or be greedy for money. 
They must keep holding on to the truth that God has made clear to us and always do what they know is right. 
If any man wants this work, you should test him to see if he is good. If he is good he can work for God. 
The wives of the helpers must also be good women. When people see them they will say, “Those women are very good.” They must not talk about people to spread things around and make trouble but they must only think about what is good. They must be good and honest all the time. 
A church helper must have only one wife. He must look after his children and his family well. 
If he works well, people will see him and say, “He does good work.” And he will speak boldly and tell others that he trusts Jesus Christ. 
I want to see you. As I write this letter to you now, I am thinking that I will see you soon. 
But maybe I will not see you soon. If I have to wait for a while, when you read this you will know what we who belong to God's family should be doing. We belong to God's family, the God who is alive today and always. And it is we, God's people, who hold on to the truth about God and keep it safe. 
God's word is very good. Truly that word is important that was hidden before, the one that tells us about Jesus Christ: He came into the world, he became a person like us. God's Spirit has shown us that Jesus has done what God wanted him to do. God's angels have seen him. Some of God's people have told others about him all over the world. And some of the people in the world believe now that Jesus is God's Son. But God has taken Jesus back again to heaven. 
