Ephesians.
Chapter 3.
I am in jail because I have been telling you people about Jesus Christ. Even though I am in jail, I am praying to God for you, because I know that you who are not Jews are God's people too. 
Maybe you have heard that God has been kind to me. He has chosen me to tell you about him, because it is good that you should know. 
God has made clear to me this news that was hidden at first. I have already written something about it. 
If you read it you will understand how I found out the news about Christ that was hidden at first. 
Long ago God didn't tell even one person the news that was hidden. But today God has told us through his Spirit. He has made clear to us his apostles and also to his prophets the news that was hidden. 
God has shown us that he will do good for all of us, us Jews and you people who are not Jews, all of us the same, because Jesus Christ died for us all. We are all one group. So that promise God made to us is for you too, because Jesus Christ died for us all. 
God chose me to work for him and to tell others about Jesus Christ. He was very kind to me, and he helped me by giving me his power so I could do his work. 
Are there any of God's people who are not important? I am much less important. But God gave me this good work to tell you too the good news about Jesus Christ. This good news tells us that Christ is rich in good things. We will never finish finding out about his good things. 
God has also given me the work of making clear to you and to all people what he has decided that he should do. Long, long ago God made everything, but he kept hiding his good news until today. 
He kept it hidden so that today all kinds of rulers above will know that he is wise and knows everything. They will know when they see God's people obeying God. 
Long ago God decided that we would all belong to him, we Jewish people and you people who are not Jews. And he decided that Jesus Christ our Lord would be the one to make us all God's own people. 
So now we shouldn't be afraid but we should come near to God boldly. We can come boldly to him because we have fellowship with Christ and because we trust in him. 
My friends, don't be discouraged about me being in jail. It doesn't matter that I am here because I have told you about Jesus Christ. Good things will happen to you later because I am here today. 
I am praising our Father, because now I know his word that was hidden at first. Now I know that God has saved you people who are not Jews, just as he has saved us Jews. 
God is the Father of us and of all people in this world and also in heaven above, and we take our name from him. 
God is very strong and full of power. So I am always praying, “Make the Ephesian people strong through your Spirit, so they will be strong to do good. 
And may Christ stay with them because they really trust in him. And may they always know his love. When they think about him loving them, may they stand strong. 
May all your people everywhere know clearly that Christ loves them very much. May they know that he never stops loving us all the time. Christ's love is very great and we can never know it properly. So may they know that Christ loves them, so that they can follow you completely and be like you. Amen.” 
Let us praise God now, because he is very powerful and he works in us today. But we can't even imagine the powerful things that he can do for us. 
So let us praise God, all of us God's people. And when people see Christ let them too praise God. Let us keep on praising God, now and always. 
