MADAME BOVARY

VOLUME ONE 



GUSTAVE FLAUBERT 



PRINTED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY BY 
GEORGE BARRIE &amp; SONS, Philadelphia 



COPYRIGHTED, 1 896, BY G. B. &amp; SON 



THIS EDITION OF 

MADAME BOVARY 

HAS BEEN COMPLETELY TRANSLATED 

BY 

WILLIAM WALTON 

THE ETCHINGS ARE BY 

EUGENE ABOT 
DANIEL MORDANT 

AND DRAWINGS BY 

ALBERT FOUR1E 



TO 

MARIE-ANTOINE-JULES SENARD 

MEMBER OF THE BAR OF PARIS 

EX-PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY 

AND FORMER MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR 



Dear and illustrious friend : 

Permit me to inscribe your name at the head of this 
book and even above its dedication, for it is to you above 
all that I am indebted for its publication. By its review 
in your magnificent defense, my work has acquired for 
me, myself, as it were, an unforeseen authority. Accept 
then the homage of my gratitude, which, however great 
it may be, will never attain to the height of your eloquence 
and of your devotion. 

GUSTAVE FLAUBERT. 
Paris, April 12, 1857. 



MADAME BOVARY 



PART FIRST 



We were all at study, when the head master entered, 
followed by a nouveau — new scholar — in bourgeois gar- 
ments and by a boy of the class who carried a great 
desk. Those who were asleep woke up, and each one 
rose, as if surprised in his work. 

The head master made us a sign to sit down again, 
then, turning toward the study master : 

"Monsieur Roger," he said to him in a low voice, 
"here is a pupil whom I recommend to you, he is 
entering the fifth class. If his work and his conduct 
are meritorious, he will pass up among the larger boys, 
where he should be because of his age." 

The nouveau, remaining in the angle behind the 
door, so that he could scarcely be seen, was evidently 
a country boy, of about fifteen years of age, and taller 
than any of us. He had his hair cut straight across his 
forehead, like a village choir-boy, a sensible and very 

7 



8 MADAME BOVARY 

much embarrassed air. Although his shoulders were 
not large, his very short-skirted coat, of green cloth 
with black buttons, was too long in the sleeves, and 
allowed to be seen through the opening of the cuffs red 
wrists evidently accustomed to being uncovered. His 
legs, in blue stockings, issued from yellowish panta- 
loons very much drawn up by the suspenders. He was 
shod with strong shoes, badly blackened, garnished 
with nails. 

The recitation of the lessons commenced. He lis- 
tened to them with all his ears, as attentive as in church, 
not daring even to cross his legs or to lean on his 
elbow; and at two o'clock, when the bell rang, the 
study master was obliged to notify him to take his place 
in our ranks. 

We had the habit, when coming into the class, of 
throwing down our caps, in order to have our hands 
free ; it was necessary from the threshold of the door 
to send them under the bench in such a manner as to 
strike against the wall and raise a good deal of dust ; 
that was the style. 

But, whether he had not noticed this manoeuvre, or 
whether he had not dared to lend himself to it, the 
prayer was finished while the nouveau still held his cap 
on his two knees. It was one of those head-coverings 
of a composite order, there could be found in it the 
elements of the tall bearskin, of the military chapska, of 
the round hat, of the casquette or otter-skin cap, and of 



PART FIRST 9 

a cotton night-cap, one of those poor things, in short, 
the mute ugliness of which has depths of expression, 
like the countenance of an imbecile. Ovoid in shape 
and stiffened with whalebone, it commenced by three 
circular folds; then alternated, separated by a red 
band, lozenges of velvet and of rabbit skin ; then there 
came a sort of a sack, which terminated in a card- 
board polygon, covered with an embroidery in com- 
plicated soutache from which hung at the end of a 
long cord too thin, a little cross bar in gold thread 
after the manner of an acorn. It was new ; the visor 
shone. 

"Stand up," said the professor. 

He stood up ; his casquette fell to the floor. All the 
class commenced to laugh. 

He stooped down to pick it up. A neighbor knocked 
it down with a stroke of his elbow. He picked it up 
again. 

" Let your casque be," said the professor, who was a 
man of wit. 

There was an outburst of laughter from all the 
scholars which put the poor boy quite out of counte- 
nance, so much so that he did not know whether it were 
better to hold it in his hand, to leave it on the floor, or 
to put it on his head. He seated himself again and 
placed it on his knees. 

"Stand up," repeated the professor, "and tell me 
your name." 



IO MADAME BOVARY 

The nouveau articulated, in a stammering voice, an 
unintelligible name. 

"Repeat it!" 

The same stammering of syllables was heard accom- 
panied by the hooting of the class. 

" Louder !" cried the master, " louder !" 

The nouveau, taking then an extreme resolution, 
opened an immeasurable mouth and launched with the 
full force of his lungs as if to call some one, this word, 
"Charbovari." 

There was at once an uproar which burst out, mounted 
in crescendo with the explosions of shrill voices — there 
were howlings and barkings and stampings and repeti- 
tions of "Charbovari ! Charbovari !" — then rolled along 
in isolated notes, quieting down with great difficulty, 
and sometimes breaking out again suddenly, along the 
line of some bench where exploded still, here and 
there, like a petard not extinguished, some smothered 
laugh. 

However, under the rain of extra tasks distributed 
right and left, order was reestablished little by little in 
the class, and the professor having succeeded in seizing 
the name of Charles Bovary, having made him write 
from dictation, spell and read over again, suddenly 
commanded the poor devil to go and seat himself " on 
the bench of idleness" at the foot of the professor's 
chair. He started to go, but hesitated. 

"What are you looking for?" asked the professor. 



PART FIRST II 

"My cas — " said the nouveau timidly, casting anx- 
ious looks around him. 

" Five hundred verses to the whole class ! ! !" shouted 
in a furious voice, arrested, like the quos ego, a new 
outburst. "Sit still then!" continued the professor, 
exasperated and wiping his forehead with his handker- 
chief which he took out of his skull-cap. " As for you, 
the nouveau, you will copy for me twenty times the 
verb ridiculus sum." Then, in a milder voice, " Eh ! 
You will find it again, your casquette ; it has not been 
stolen from you ! ' ' 

Everything resumed its usual calm. All the heads 
bent over the portfolios, and the nouveau remained for 
two hours in an exemplary attitude, although there was 
from time to time a paper bullet launched with the nib 
of a pen which spattered on his face. But he wiped it 
off with his hand and remained motionless, his eyes 
lowered. 

In the evening, at study, he took his sleeve-protectors 
from his desk, put his small affairs in order, carefully 
arranged his paper. We saw him working conscien- 
tiously, looking out all the words in the dictionary and 
giving himself no end of trouble. Thanks, doubtless, 
to the goodwill of which he gave evidence he was not 
obliged to descend into the lower class ; for if he knew 
the rules passably well, he had but little elegance in 
the turning of phrases. It was the cure of the village 
who had commenced his Latin, his parents, through 



12 MADAME BOVARY 

economy, having only sent him to college at the latest 
possible moment. 

His father, Monsieur Charles - Denis - Bartholomew 
Bovary, former surgeon-major's aide, compromised about 
1 812 in the affairs of the conscription, and compelled 
about that period to quit the service, had then profited 
by his personal advantages to take possession, on his 
way, of a dot of some sixty thousand francs which was 
offered him in the daughter of a merchant hosier, who 
had fallen in love with his appearance. A handsome 
man, a braggart, making his spurs sound, wearing his 
whiskers joined to his moustache, his fingers always cov- 
ered with rings and sporting loud colors, he had the 
appearance of a man of spirit with the easy plausibility 
of a traveling salesman. Once married, he lived two 
or three years in the full enjoyment of his wife's for- 
tune, dining well, rising late, smoking great porcelain 
pipes, coming home in the evening only after the theatre 
and frequenting the cafes. The father-in-law died and 
left but little behind him ; at this he was irritated, 
launched into manufacturing, lost some money in it, 
then retired into the country, where he resolved to 
cultivate his farm. But, as he knew but little more 
of agriculture than of printed cottons, as he rode his 
horses instead of sending them to plowing, drank his 
cider in bottles instead of selling it in barrels, ate the 
finest fowls out of his chicken-yard and greased his 
hunting shoes with the lard of his pigs, he was not 



PART FIRST 13 

long in coming to the conclusion that he would do 
better to abandon all such enterprises. 

For the sum of two hundred francs a year he then 
found to lease in a village, on the confines of the dis- 
tricts of Caux and of Picardie, a sort of habitation, 
half farmhouse, half manor house ; and there, filled 
with vexation, devoured with regrets, accusing Heaven, 
jealous of all the world, he shut himself up at the age 
of forty-five, disgusted with men, he said, and resolved 
henceforth to live in peace. 

His wife had been madly in love with him formerly ; 
she had adored him with a thousand servilities which 
had had the effect of wearying him still more of her. 
Lively and cheerful in her younger days, expansive and 
very loving, she had become in growing older — like stale 
wine which turns into vinegar — difficult to please, scold- 
ing and nervous. She had suffered so much without 
complaining at first, when she had seen him running after 
all the village strumpets and when from twenty haunts of 
evil he had been sent back to her in the evenings, dead- 
ened and stinking of drunkenness ; then her pride had 
revolted. Then she hardened her heart, repressing her 
fury under a silent stoicism which she preserved to her 
death. She was continually occupied with errands, 
with business affairs. She went to the lawyers' offices, 
interviewed the president of the courts, knew when the 
notes fell due, obtained their renewal ; and in the 
household, did the ironing, the sewing, the washing, 



14 MADAME BOVARY 

superintended the workmen, settled the bills, during 
which, without concerning himself about anything, 
monsieur, perpetually buried in a gruff stupor from 
which he only aroused himself to address unmannerly 
remarks to her, remained smoking at the corner of the 
fire, spitting in the cinders. 

When a child was born to her, it was necessary to put 
it out to nurse. Returned to the parental mansion, this 
infant, though much to be pitied, was spoiled like a 
prince. His mother fed him with sweets, his father 
allowed him to run without shoes, and, posing as a phil- 
osopher, even declared that he could very well go quite 
naked, like the young of animals. In opposition to the 
maternal tenderness he had in his head a certain virile 
idea of childhood, according to which he endeavored 
to form his son, wishing to bring him up severely, in a 
Spartan manner, in order to give him a good constitu- 
tion. He sent him to bed without fire, taught him to 
swallow great draughts of rum and to insult the church 
processions. But, naturally of a peaceable disposition, 
the little one responded but indifferently well to his 
efforts. His mother dragged him around always with 
her; she cut out pasteboard figures for him, told him 
stories, conversed with him in endless monologue, full of 
melancholy gaieties and gossiping chattering. In the 
isolation of her life, she concentrated upon the head of 
this child all her scattered and broken vanities. She 
dreamed of high positions for him, she saw him already 



PART FIRST 15 

big, handsome, intelligent, established in life, in the 
department of roads and bridges or in the magistracy. 
She taught him to read, and even gave him lessons on 
an old piano which she had, in singing two or three 
little romantic songs. But to all this, Monsieur Bovary, 
but little interested in letters, said that it was not worth 
the trouble. Would they ever have the means with 
which to send him to the government schools, to pur- 
chase some post for him or a business capital ? More- 
over, with some assurance, a man would always succeed 
in the world. Madame Bovary bit her lips, and the 
child wandered about aimlessly in the village. 

He followed the ploughman and drove away with 
clods of earth the crows that settled. He ate mulberries 
along the ditches, took care of the turkeys with a long 
pole, spread the hay in the harvest, ran in the woods, 
played at hop-scotch under the church porch on rainy 
days, and at the grand festivals, persuaded the beadle 
to let him ring the bell, so that he might suspend him- 
self with both hands to the long rope and feel himself 
carried up by it in its ascension. 

Moreover, he grew like an oak. He acquired strong 
hands, a fine color. 

When he was twelve years old, his mother obtained 
permission to have his studies commence. The cure 
took charge of them. But the lessons were so short 
and so indifferently followed that they could not amount 
to much. They were given at odd moments, in the 



16 MADAME BOVARY 

sacristy, standing, hastily, between a baptism and a 
funeral ; or else the cure sent for his pupil after the 
Angelus, when he did not have to go out. They went 
up into his chamber ; they settled to work ; the flies 
and the night moths fluttered around the candle. It 
was warm, the child fell asleep ; and the good man, 
sinking into drowsiness, his hands joined on his stomach, 
was not long in beginning to snore with his mouth open. 
At other times, when Monsieur le Cure, returning from 
carrying the viaticum to some sick person in the neigh- 
borhood, perceived Charles, who was amusing himself 
with vulgar tricks in the country, he called him, sermon- 
ized him for a quarter of an hour, and profited by the 
occasion to make him conjugate his verb at the foot 
of a tree. The rain came to interrupt them, or some 
acquaintance who passed. For the rest, he was always 
satisfied with him, even saying that the young man had 
a good memory. 

Charles could not go on this way ; madame was ener- 
getic. Ashamed, or rather wearied, monsieur yielded 
without resistance, and it was concluded to wait still a 
year until the boy should have taken his first communion. 

Six months more passed away ; and, in the following 
year, Charles was finally sent to the college of Rouen, 
to which his father took him himself, toward the end 
of October, at the time of the fair of Saint-Romain. 

It would be impossible for any of us at this day to 
recall anything concerning him. He was a boy of a 



PART FIRST 17 

moderate temperament, who played at recreation time, 
worked during study hours, listened in the class, slept 
well in the dormitory, and ate heartily in the refectory. 
He had for a friend, a wholesale hardware merchant of 
the Rue Ganterie, who took him out once a month, on 
Sundays, after his shop was closed, sent him to walk on 
the wharves to look at the vessels, then brought him back 
to college at seven o'clock, before the supper. Every 
Thursday evening he wrote a long letter to his mother, 
with red ink and three wafers, then he went over his 
history notes, or else read an old volume of the 
Anacharsis which was lying about in the study. 
During the promenades, he talked with the servant, 
who, like himself, was from the country. 

By dint of application, he contrived to maintain him- 
self always about the middle of the class ; at one time 
he even gained the second place in natural history. 
But, at the end of his third term, his parents withdrew 
him from college so that he might take up the study of 
medicine, being persuaded that he could with his own 
efforts attain a baccalaureate degree. 

His mother selected a chamber for him on the fourth 
floor, on the Eau-de-Robec, in the house of a dyer of 
her acquaintance. She concluded all the arrangements 
for his board, procured his furniture, a table and two 
chairs, brought from her own house an old cherry-wood 
bedstead, and bought, moreover, a little cast-iron stove 
with a provision of wood which should keep her poor 



18 MADAME BOVARY 

child warm. Then she departed at the end of the week, 
after a thousand recommendations to conduct himself 
well, now that he was about to be abandoned to his 
own resources. 

The programme of the course of studies, which he 
read on the notices posted up, had upon him a stupefy- 
ing effect — Course of Anatomy, Course of Pathology, 
Course of Physiology, Course of Pharmacy, Course of 
Chemistry and of Botany, and of Clinics, and of 
Therapeutics, without counting Hygiene and Materia 
Medica, all of them names of whose etymology he was 
ignorant, and which were like so many sanctuary 
portals crowded with august shadows. 

He comprehended nothing of it at all ; he might 
listen attentively, he could not grasp it. He studied, 
however, he had note-books in bindings, he followed 
all the courses, he did not lose a single visit. He 
accomplished his daily little task after the manner of a 
circus horse, which goes round and round with his eyes 
bandaged, ignorant of the drudgery he performs. 

To save him expense, his mother sent him each week 
by the messenger a bit of veal baked in the oven, on 
which he breakfasted in the morning when he returned 
from the hospital, while he warmed his feet by striking 
them against the wall. Then it was necessary to hasten 
to the lessons, to the dissecting-room, to the hospital, 
and to return home traversing the streets. In the 
evening, after the meagre dinner of his landlord, he 



PART FIRST 19 

remounted to his chamber and set himself at work 
again, in his damp clothes which steamed on his body 
before the red-hot stove. 

In the fine summer evenings, at the hour in which 
the tepid streets are empty, when the servants play at 
battledore and shuttle-cock on the thresholds of the 
doors, he opened his window and leaned his elbows on 
the sill. The river, which makes of this quarter of 
Rouen a little ignoble Venice, flowed below him, yel- 
low, violet or blue, between its bridges and its gratings. 
The workmen, stooping over the banks, washed their 
arms in the water. On poles extending from the upper 
parts of the warehouses long skeins of cotton dried in 
the air. Before him beyond the roofs, the great pure 
sky extended, with the red sun setting. How pleasant it 
must be down there. What freshness under the beech 
trees. And he opened his nostrils to inhale the good 
odors of the country, which did not quite reach him. 

He grew thinner, his figure lengthened out, and his 
countenance assumed a sort of doleful expression which 
rendered him almost interesting. 

Naturally, through indifference, he gradually came 
to forgetting all the good resolutions which he had 
made. One time he missed the visit to the hospital, 
the next day his course, and tasting the pleasures of 
idleness, little by little, he returned to them no more. 

He fell into the habit of going to the cabaret, and 
acquired a passion for dominoes. To shut himself up 



20 MADAME BOVARY 

each evening in a dirty public apartment, there to 
arrange on the marble tables the little rectangles of 
mutton-bone marked with little black dots, seemed to 
him a precious act of his liberty, which heightened 
his esteem for himself. It was like initiation into the 
world, the accession to forbidden pleasures; and on 
entering, he placed his hand on the door knob with a 
joy that was almost sensual. Then many things that 
had been suppressed in him expanded themselves ; he 
learned by heart couplets which he sang to welcome 
his friends, he acquired an enthusiasm for Beranger, 
learned to make punch and finally became acquainted 
with love. 

Thanks to these preparatory studies, he failed com- 
pletely in his examination for Ofncier de Sante. 1 They 
were waiting for him that very evening at his father's 
house to fete him on his success. 

He set off on foot and stopped at the edge of the 
village, where he sent for his mother and related all to 
her. She excused him, throwing all the blame upon 
the injustice of the examiners, and, encouraging him a 
little, took charge of the affair. It was not until five 
years later that Monsieur Bovary learned the truth, — by 
this time it was old, and he accepted it, not being able 
moreover to suppose that any child of his could be a 
dunce. 

Charles then resumed his studies and prepared with- 
out further discontinuance for his examination, all the 



PART FIRST 21 

questions for which he learned in advance by heart. 
He was received with a sufficiently good notice. What 
a beautiful day for his mother. A great dinner was 
given in his honor. 

Where should he go to practise his profession ? At 
Tostes. There, there was only one old physician. For 
a long time Madame Bovary had been watching for his 
death, and the good man had not yet shuffled off his 
mortal coil, when Charles was already installed oppo- 
site to him, as his successor. 

But this was not enough to have educated her son, to 
have made him acquire the science of medicine and to 
have discovered Tostes in which to exercise it. He 
must have a wife. She found one for him, a widow of 
a bailiff at Dieppe, who was forty-five years old, and 
had twelve hundred francs income. 

Although she was ugly, dry as a stick and with her 
face broken out like blossoms in springtime, certainly 
Madame Dubuc did not lack for suitors for her hand. 
In order to attain her own ends, the mother Bovary 
was obliged to rout them all, and she even foiled very 
skilfully the intrigues of a pork butcher, who was 
supported by the priests. Charles had perceived in 
marriage the opening of a better condition, imagining 
that he would have more freedom and would be able to 
dispose at will of his person and of his money. But his 
wife was the master in the house ; he was obliged to say 
this before the world, not to say that, to fast every 



2 2 MADAME BOVARY 

Friday, to dress himself as she saw fit, to harass by her 
orders the clients who did not pay. She opened his 
letters, watched all his goings and comings, and listened 
through the partition, to his consultations in his office 
when there were women patients. 

It was necessary that she should have her chocolate 
every morning, be waited on with never-ending care. 
She complained unceasingly of her nerves, of her chest, 
of her humors. The sound of footsteps made her ill ; 
when every one went away, the solitude became odious 
to her ; did they return to her, it was doubtless to see 
her die. In the evening when Charles came in, she 
drew out from under her bed-covers her long thin arms, 
passed them around his neck, and having made him 
seat himself on the edge of the bed, commenced to talk 
to him of her griefs ; he had forgotten her, he loved 
another ! she had been told that she would be unhappy 
with him ; and she ended by demanding of him some 
syrup for her health and a little more of love. 



II 



One night, about eleven o'clock, they were awakened 
by the noise of a horse which stopped at their door. 
The servant opened the garret window and negotiated 



PART FIRST 23 

some time with a man who remained below in the street. 
He had come for the doctor ; he had a letter. Nastasie 
went downstairs shivering and unfastened the lock and 
the bolts, one after another. The man left his horse in 
the street and, following the domestic, entered directly 
behind her. He drew from within his woolen cap with 
gray tufts, a letter enveloped in a piece of cloth and 
presented it delicately to Charles, who leaned his 
elbows on the pillow to read it. Nastasie, by the side 
of the bed, held a light. Madame, through modesty, 
remained with her face turned to the wall, showing 
only her back. 

This letter, sealed with a little seal of blue wax, 
entreated Monsieur Bovary to come immediately to the 
farm of the Bertaux, to set a broken leg. Now there 
are between Tostes and the Bertaux six good leagues 
to traverse, going by way of Longueville and Saint- 
Victor ; the night was dark ; Madame Bovary, the 
younger, feared some accident for her husband. Accord- 
ingly, it was decided that the groom should go back 
before him. Charles would set out three hours later, 
when the moon rose. A boy would be sent to meet 
him, in order to show him the road to the farm and to 
open the gates for him. 

About four o'clock in the morning Charles, well 
enveloped in his cloak, took the road for the Bertaux. 
Still heavy from the warmth of slumber, he allowed 
himself to be lulled by the pacific trot of his animal. 



24 MADAME BOVARY 

When she stopped of her own accord before one of 
those hollows surrounded with thorns which are dug 
along the edge of ploughed fields, Charles awoke with a 
start, suddenly remembered the broken leg, and endeav- 
ored to recall to his memory all the fractures that he 
had known. The rain no longer fell ; the day was 
beginning to appear, and on the branches of the leaf- 
less apple-trees the birds were perched motionless, 
ruffling their little feathers in the cold wind of the 
morning. The flat country extended in the distance as 
far as the eye could see, and the clumps of trees around 
the farm made at long intervals spots of dark violet 
upon this great gray surface, which lost itself at the 
horizon in the dull tone of the sky. Charles opened his 
eyes from time to time ; then, his mind fatigued and 
slumber returning of itself, soon he fell into a sort of 
drowsiness in which his recent sensations became con- 
founded with his recollections, he seeing himself double, 
at once student and married man, lying in his bed as 
he was but just now, traversing an operating room as 
formerly. The warm smell of the cataplasms mingled in 
his head with the fresh smell of the dew ; he heard the 
iron rings of the bed curtains slide along their rods, and 
his wife sleeping. As he passed by Vassonville, he saw, 
on the edge of the ditch, a young boy seated on the grass. 

"Are you the doctor?" asked the child. 

And on receiving Charles's answer he took his sabots 
in his hands and commenced to run before him. 



PART FIRST 25 

The Officier de Sante, as they went along, learned from 
the conversation of his guide that Monsieur Rouault 
must be a cultivator in very easy circumstances. He 
had broken his leg the evening before, in returning 
from a celebration in the house of a neighbor. His 
wife had been dead for two years. He had with him 
only his demoiselle, who helped him to keep house. 

The ruts in the road became deeper. They were 
approaching the Bertaux. The little boy, slipping 
through a hole in the hedge, disappeared; then he 
was seen at the end of the courtyard opening a gate. 
The horse slid on the wet grass; Charles stooped to 
pass under the branches. The watch-dogs from their 
kennels barked, tugging at their chains. When he 
entered the Bertaux, his horse took fright and shied 
violently. 

It was a farm of a good appearance. There could 
be seen in the stables, through the upper parts of the 
open doors, great work horses feeding tranquilly in new 
racks. Along the buildings extended a long dunghill, 
from which vapor was arising, and among the chickens 
and the turkeys were pecking five or six peacocks, a 
luxury of the farm-yards of Caux. The sheepfold was 
long, the barn was high, with walls as smooth as a hand. 
There were under the shed two great carts and four 
ploughs, with their whips, their collars, their complete 
harness of which the fleeces of blue wool were soiled 
with the fine powder which fell from the granaries. 



26 MADAME BOVARY 

The courtyard ascended towards its farther end, planted 
with trees symmetrically placed, and the gay sound of 
a troop of geese was heard from the side of the pond. 

A young woman in a dress of blue merino, trimmed 
with three flounces, came to the door of the house to 
receive Monsieur Bovary, whom she caused to enter into 
the kitchen in which a great fire was burning. The 
breakfast of the household was boiling around this in 
little pots of unequal size. Damp garments were dry- 
ing in the interior of the chimney. The shovel, the 
tongs, and the mouth of the bellows, all of them of 
colossal proportions, shone like polished steel, whilst 
along the walls were extended an abundant array of 
kitchen utensils in which were reflected unequally the 
clear flame of the fire, mingled with the first rays of the 
sun which came through the squares of the windows. 

Charles went up to the first floor above to see the 
sick man. He found him in his bed, sweating under 
his coverings, and having thrown to a great distance 
his cotton night-cap. He was a stout little man of 
fifty years of age, with a fair skin, with a blue eye, bald 
on the front of his head and wearing earrings. He had 
at his side, on a chair, a great carafe of brandy, from 
which he poured for himself, from time to time, in 
order to strengthen his stomach ; but as soon as he saw 
the doctor, he collapsed, and instead of swearing as he 
had been doing for the last twelve hours, he took to 
whimpering feebly. 



PART FIRST 27 

The fracture was a simple one, without a complica- 
tion of any kind. Charles would not have dared to 
have wished for an easier one. Then, recalling to him- 
self the manners of his masters by the bedside of the 
injured, he comforted the patient with all sorts of good 
words, surgical caresses, which are like the oil with 
which the scalpels are greased. In order to have 
splinters, they sent to the cart house for a package of 
laths. Charles chose one, cut it in pieces and polished 
it with a piece of glass, whilst the servant tore up cloths 
to make bands and Mademoiselle Emma endeavored to 
sew up little cushions. As she was a long time finding 
her needle-case, her father grew impatient ; she made no 
reply, but in sewing she pricked her finger which she 
then put into her mouth to suck. 

Charles was surprised at the whiteness of her finger 
nails. They were brilliant, fine at the ends, more care- 
fully cleaned than the ivories at Dieppe, and cut almond- 
shape. Her hand, however, was not handsome, perhaps 
not white enough, and a little dry at the joints ; it was 
too long also, and without soft inflections of lines in 
the contour. That which she had which was handsome 
were her eyes ; although they were brown, they seemed 
to be black because of their lashes, and she looked 
frankly at you with a candid hardihood. 

When the dressing was completed, the doctor was 
invited by Monsieur Rouault himself to take a bite with 
them before leaving. 



28 MADAME BOVARY 

Charles descended into the room on the ground floor. 
Two covers with silver drinking-cups were placed on 
little tables at the foot of a great bed with a canopy, 
draped with a printed calico, on which were personages 
representing Turks. An odor of iris was perceptible 
and of damp cloths which came from the high ward- 
robe in oak facing the window. On the floor in the 
angles were placed upright sacks of grain. They were 
the surplus of the near granary, to which you ascended 
by three stone steps. To decorate the apartment, there 
was hung on a nail, in the middle of the wall, the green 
paint of which was flaking off under the saltpetre, a 
head of Minerva in black crayon, with gilt frame, and 
which bore at the bottom written in black letters, " To 
my dear Papa." 

They spoke at first of the sick man, then of the 
weather, of the great cold, of the wolves which ranged 
the fields in the night. Mademoiselle Rouault amused 
herself but little in the country, especially now that she 
had charge almost alone of the cares of the farm. As 
the room was chilly, she shivered while she ate, which 
revealed something of her fleshy lips which she was in 
the habit of biting in her moments of silence. 

Her neck rose from a white collar turned down. 
Her hair, the two black coils of which seemed each 
composed of a single tress, they were so smooth, was 
separated on the middle of her head by a fine part 
which followed lightly the curve of her cranium ; and, 



PART FIRST 29 

permitting to be seen only the end of her ear, they 
were mingled at the back in an abundant chignon, with 
a little wave on the temples which the country doctor 
noticed there for the first time in his life. Her cheeks 
were pink. She carried like a man, thrust between two 
buttons of her corsage, a tortoise-shell eye-glass. 

When Charles, after having gone up to say adieu to the 
pere Rouault, returned to the apartment before depart- 
ing, he found her standing, her forehead against the 
window and looking out in the garden where the bean 
poles had been beaten down by the wind. She turned 
around. 

"Are you looking for anything?" she asked. 

"My whip, if you please," he replied. 

And he commenced to search on the bed, behind the 
doors, under the chairs. It had fallen to the floor 
between the sacks of grain and the wall. Mademoiselle 
Emma saw it; she stooped over the sacks to get it. 
Charles through gallantry hastened also, and as he 
stretched out his arm in the same movement, he felt 
his chest graze slightly the back of the young girl 
stooping beneath him. She arose very red and looked 
at him over her shoulder offering him his whip. 

Instead of returning to the Bertaux three days later 
as he had promised, it was the very next day that he 
appeared again, then twice a week regularly, without 
counting the unexpected visits which he made from 
time to time, as it were, unawares. 



30 MADAME BOVARY 

For that matter, everything went well ; the cure took 
place according to the rules, and when at the end of 
forty-six days, the pere Rouault was seen trying to walk 
alone in his hovel, Monsieur Bovary was beginning to be 
considered a man of great capacity. The pere Rouault 
said that he would not have been better cured by the 
first physicians of Yvetot, or even of Rouen. 

As for Charles, he scarcely sought to ask himself why 
he went with pleasure to the Bertaux. Had he thought 
of it, he would doubtless have attributed his zeal to the 
gravity of the case, or perhaps to the profit which he 
hoped to draw from it. Was it because of this, how- 
ever, that his visits to the farm constituted a charming 
exception to the poor occupations of his life? On 
those days he rose early, set out at a gallop, urged his 
horse ; then he dismounted to wipe his feet on the grass 
and put on his black gloves before entering. He loved 
to see himself arriving in the courtyard, to feel against 
his shoulder the gate which turned, and the cock which 
crowed on the wall, the farm hands who came out to 
meet him. He loved the barn and the stables; he 
loved the pere Rouault, who slapped his hand and 
called him his savior ; he loved the little sabots of 
Mademoiselle Emma on the scrubbed slabs of the 
kitchen. Her high heels made her look taller, and 
when she walked before him the wooden soles coming 
up smartly, struck with a sharp noise against the leather 
of her boots. 



PART FIRST 31 

She always conducted him to the top of the door- 
steps when he was leaving. When his horse had not 
yet been brought, she waited there. They had said 
adieu ; they no longer spoke ; the open air surrounded 
them, lifting indiscriminately the wandering little ring- 
lets on the nape of her neck or shaking around her hips 
the strings of her apron which twisted themselves like 
streamers. On one occasion, at a time of thaw, the 
bark of the trees in the courtyard was dripping, the 
snow on the coverings of the buildings was melting. 
She was on the threshold ; she went to get her umbrella ; 
she opened it. The umbrella was of silk, like a pigeon's 
throat in color, and the sunlight, sifting through it, lit 
up with moving reflections the white skin of her face. 
She smiled underneath it in the tepid warmth ; and 
they could hear the drops of water falling one by one 
on the tense covering. 

From the first visits that Charles paid to the Bertaux, 
Madame Bovary the younger did not fail to inform 
herself concerning the invalid, and even on the book 
which she kept by double entry she had chosen for 
Monsieur Rouault a fine, blank page. But when she 
heard that he had a daughter, she began to seek for infor- 
mation, and she learned that Mademoiselle Rouault, 
educated at the convent with the Ursulines, had received, 
as it was said, a fine education ; hence she could dance, 
knew geography, could design, work tapestry and play 
the piano. This was the finishing touch ! 



32 MADAME BOVARY 

"This is the reason, then," she said to herself, " that 
his countenance is so expanded when he goes to see her, 
and that he puts on his new waistcoat at the risk of hav- 
ing it spoiled by the rain ? Ah, that woman ! that 
woman !" 

And she detested her, instinctively. At first, she 
relieved herself by vague allusions, Charles did not 
comprehend them ; then by incidental reflections, 
which he let pass for fear of raising a storm ; finally, 
by point-blank apostrophes to which he did not know 
how to reply. " How was it that he kept going back 
to the Bertaux, since Monsieur Rouault was cured and 
since those people had not yet paid ? Ah ! it was 
because there was down there a person, some one who 
knew how to talk, and embroider, a fine wit. She was 
there whom he loved : he must have city demoiselles ! ' ' 
And she went on: "The daughter of Pere Rouault, a 
city demoiselle ! Come now, their grandfather was a 
shepherd, and they have a cousin who all but came 
before the assizes for an ill stroke in a dispute. It was 
not worth the trouble to make so much flafla, nor to 
show one's self at church on Sunday with a silk dress like 
a countess. The poor good man, moreover, without 
his colewort crop last year would have been much 
embarrassed to have paid up his arrears." 

Through weariness, Charles ceased going to the Ber- 
taux. Helo'ise had made him swear that he would go 
there no more, with his hand on her book of the Mass, 



PART FIRST 33 

after many sobs and kisses, in a grand explosion of love. 
He obeyed then; but the hardihood of his desire pro- 
tested against the servility of his conduct, and, by a 
sort of ingenuous hypocrisy, he grew to think that this 
being forbidden to see her was for him something like 
a right to love her. 

And then, could the widow efface by her own influ- 
ence the image fixed on her husband's heart? The 
widow was thin, she had long teeth; she wore at all 
seasons of the year a little black shawl, the point of 
which descended between her shoulder blades ; her 
hard figure was sheathed in her dresses which were 
like scabbards, too short, showing her ankles, with the 
ribbons of her large shoes crossing on her gray stockings. 

The mother of Charles came to see them from time 
to time ; but, at the end of a few days, the daughter- 
in-law seemed to sharpen her to her own keenness, and 
then, like two knives, they were both ready to sacrifice 
him by their reflections and their observations. He 
was wrong to eat so much ! Why always offer a drop 
to the first comer? What obstinacy not to want to 
wear flannel ! 

It came to pass that, at the commencement of the 
spring, a notary of Ingouville, in whose hands were the 
funds of the widow Dubuc, took ship on a fine tide carry- 
ing away with him all the money of his office. Helo'ise, 
it is true, possessed still in addition to a portion of a boat 
valued at six thousand francs, her house in the Rue 



34 MADAME BOVARY 

Saint-Francois, and yet, of all this fortune which had 
been so highly extolled, nothing, with the exception of 
a few pieces of furniture and some apparel, had appeared 
in the household. It was necessary to have the thing 
cleared up. The house at Dieppe was found to be 
worm-eaten with mortgages, even to the piles on which 
it was built ; that which she had put in the hands of the 
notary, God alone knew, and her share of the boat did 
not exceed a thousand ecus. She had then lied, the 
good lady ! In his exasperation, Monsieur Bovary pere, 
breaking a chair against the paving stones, accused his 
wife of having brought about the unhappiness of their 
son in yoking him to such a sorry jade, the harness of 
which was not worth her skin. They came to Tostes. 
There were explanations. There were scenes. Heloi'se, 
in tears, threw herself into the arms of her husband, 
conjuring him to defend her against his parents. Charles 
wished to speak for her. The others took offense, and 
they parted. 

But the blow had been struck. A week later, as she 
was hanging clothes in her courtyard, she was taken 
with a spitting of blood, and the next day, whilst 
Charles had his back turned to close the window cur- 
tain, she said : "Ah ! Mon Dieu !" uttered a sigh and 
fainted. She was dead. What a surprise ! 

When everything had been ended at the cemetery, 
Charles returned home. He found no one on the lower 
story ; he ascended to the floor above, in the chamber,. 



PART FIRST 35 

saw her dress still hanging at the foot of the alcove ; 
then, leaning against the secretary, he remained until 
the evening lost in a sorrowful reverie. She had loved 
him, after all. 



Ill 



One morning the Pere Rouault brought Charles the 
payment for his restored leg, seventy-five francs in forty- 
sou pieces and a turkey hen. He had heard of his loss 
and consoled him the best he could. 

"I know how it is," he said, patting him on the 
shoulder ; "I have been like you, I too ! When I lost 
my poor deceased one, I went off into the fields so as 
to be all alone ; I fell at the foot of a tree, I wept ; I 
called on the Bon Dieu, I said stupid things to him ; I 
would like to have been like the moles whom I saw up 
in the branches, who had the worms crawling in their 
bellies, finished in short ! And when I thought that 
others at that very moment were with their good little 
wives, holding them closely embraced against them, I 
struck furiously on the ground with my stick, I was so 
crazy that I could eat no more ; the idea of going to 
coffee disgusted me, you would not believe it. Well, 
ever so softly, one day chased away another, a spring 
on a winter and an autumn on top of a summer, that had 



36 MADAME BOVARY 

run along straw by straw, crumb by crumb ; that had 
gone away ; it had departed, it had gone down I should 
say, for always there remains to you something at the 
bottom, as you would say — a weight, there on your 
chest. But since it is the fate of all of us, one should 
not on that account let one's self perish, and, because 
others are dead, wish to die. — You must shake yourself 
up, Monsieur Bovary ; that will pass away. Come to 
see us ; my daughter thinks of you from time to time, 
you may believe it, and she says that you forget her. 
Here is the springtime coming pretty soon ; we will 
get a rabbit from the warren for a little dissipation for 
you." 

Charles followed his advice. He returned to the 
Bertaux ; he found everything there as it had been the 
day before, that is to say, five months ago. The pear- 
trees were in blossom, and the good man Rouault, on 
his feet now, came and went, which rendered the farm 
more animated. 

Thinking that it was his duty to treat the doctor with 
the utmost possible politeness because of his sorrowful 
condition, he begged him not to take off his hat, spoke 
to him in a low voice as though he were ill, and even 
put on an appearance of being vexed because there had 
not been prepared for him something more delicate 
than for anyone else, such as little pots of cream or 
stewed pears. He told him stories. Charles surprised 
himself by laughing ; but the remembrance of his wife 



PART FIRST 37 

suddenly returning to him saddened him. Then the 
coffee was served ; he thought no more about her. 

He thought of her still less in proportion as he became 
accustomed to living alone. The new comfort of inde- 
pendence very soon rendered solitude more supportable 
to him. He could now change the hours of his meals, 
come in or go out without giving reason, and, when he 
was very tired, stretch his legs and arms to their full 
extent in his bed. Then he commenced to take care 
of himself, pampered himself, and accepted the conso- 
lations which were offered him. On the other hand, 
the death of his wife had not been without advantage 
to him in his profession, for it was repeated everywhere 
for a whole month: "That poor young man! what a 
misfortune!" His name became more widely known, 
the number of his patients increased; and then he 
could go to the Bertaux quite as he pleased. He enter- 
tained a hope without aim, he felt a vague happiness ; 
his face seemed to him more agreeable when he brushed 
his whiskers before his glass. 

He arrived there one day about three o'clock in the 
afternoon ; everybody was in the field ; he went into 
the kitchen, not seeing Emma at first, the shutters 
being closed. Through the slits in the wood the sun- 
shine fell on the floor in long thin rays, which were 
broken on the angles of the furniture and trembled on 
the ceiling. On the table, the flies climbed up the 
glasses which had been used and buzzed furiously in 



38 MADAME BOVARY 

drowning themselves in the cider which remained at 
the bottom. The daylight which descended the chim- 
ney, turning into velvet the soot on the back, made 
the cold cinders slightly blue. Between the window 
and the hearth Emma was sewing ; she wore no fichu ; 
on her bare shoulders could be seen little drops of per- 
spiration. 

After the fashion of the country she asked him to 
take something to drink. He refused, she insisted, 
and finally proposed to him, laughing, to take a glass of 
liqueur with her. She then went to get in the cupboard 
a bottle of curacao, got down two little glasses, filled 
one of them to the brim, poured a few drops in the 
other and after having clinked glasses, carried it to 
her mouth. As it was almost empty she was obliged 
to throw herself backward to drink; and, with her 
head thrown far back, her lips advanced, her neck 
stretched, she laughed at not being able to taste any- 
thing, while the tip of her tongue, passing between 
her fine teeth, licked with little strokes the bottom of 
the glass. 

She seated herself again and resumed her work, which 
was a white cotton stocking which she was mending ; 
she worked with her head bent, she did not speak, nor 
did Charles. The air passing under the door blew a 
little dust over the tiles ; he watched it whirl along, and 
he heard only the interior pulsation in his head with 
the distant cackle of a hen which had laid an egg in 



PART FIRST 39 

the courtyard. Emma, from time to time, refreshed 
her cheeks by applying to them the palm of her hand 
which she cooled afterwards by placing it on the iron 
head of the great andirons. She complained of hav- 
ing been troubled since the beginning of the season 
with dizziness ; she asked if sea bathing would not be 
beneficial to her; she began to talk of her convent, 
Charles of his college ; their phrases came to them 
more readily ; they went upstairs into her chamber. 
She showed him her old music-books, the little books 
which had been given to her as prizes, and the crowns 
in oak leaves, now forgotten in the bottom of a closet. 
She spoke to him of other things, of her mother, of the 
cemetery, and even pointed out to him in the garden, 
the bed from which she gathered flowers on the first 
Friday of every month to place upon her grave. But 
the gardener whom they had did not understand any- 
thing ; they were so badly served ! She would have 
liked, if it were only during the winter, to live in the 
city, although the length of the fine days rendered the 
country perhaps more wearisome during the summer ; 
and, varying with what she said, her voice became clear, 
sharp, or, veiling itself suddenly in languor, drew itself 
out in modulations which ended almost in a mere mur- 
mur, when she spoke of herself to herself. Sometimes 
joyful, opening ingenuous eyes, then with the lids half 
closed, her looks drowned in ennui, her thoughts 
wandering. 



40 MADAME BOVARY 

That evening, in returning home, Charles took up, 
one by one, the phrases which she had used, endeavor- 
ing to recall them to complete the sense, in order to 
make out that portion of her existence which she had 
lived in the times before he had known her. But he 
never could succeed in seeing her in his thoughts in any- 
other way than as he had seen her the first time, or as 
she had been just now when he left her. Then he asked 
himself, what would become of her, if she would marry, 
and whom ? Alas ! the Pere Rouault was very rich, 
and she ! ... so beautiful ! But Emma's face con- 
stantly returned before his eyes, and something monoto- 
nous like the humming of a top buzzed in his ears: " If 
you should get married however ! if you should get 
married ! " In the night he could not sleep ; his throat 
was constricted, he was thirsty ; he rose to drink from 
his water pitcher and he opened the window, — the sky 
was covered with stars, a warm wind was blowing, in 
the distance the dogs barked. He turned his face in 
the direction of the Bertaux. 

Thinking that, after all, nothing would be risked, 
Charles promised himself to make the demand when 
occasion should offer. Every time that it did offer, the 
fear of not finding the appropriate words sealed his lips. 

The Pere Rouault would not have been displeased if 
some one had relieved him of his daughter, who was of 
very little service to him in his household. He excused 
her to himself, concluding that she was too clever for 



PART FIRST 41 

agriculture, an avocation cursed by Heaven since there 
were never seen any millionaires in it. Far from hav- 
ing made a fortune, the good man was losing every 
year, for, if he excelled in the markets where he found 
pleasure in making sharp bargains, on the other hand, 
cultivation of the ground, properly speaking, with the 
interior government of the farm, was less suited to him 
than to any other person. He did not willingly take 
his hands out of his pockets, and spared no expense in 
whatever concerned his daily life, desiring to be very 
well fed, well warmed and well bedded. He loved 
strong cider, legs of mutton juicy and tender, his 
coffee with brandy, carefully ground. He took his 
meals in the kitchen alone, in front of the fire on a 
little table, which was brought to him already served, 
as at the theatre. 

Therefore, when he perceived that Charles's cheeks 
reddened when near his daughter, which signified that 
one of these days she would be asked of him in mar- 
riage, he turned the whole affair over in his head in 
advance. He found him somewhat of a weak slip of a 
man, and he was certainly not such a son-in-law as he 
had hoped for ; but he was said to be of good conduct, 
economical, very well educated, and doubtless he 
would not haggle over the dot. Now, as the Pere 
Rouault was about to be obliged to sell twenty-two 
acres of his property, as he owed a great deal to the 
mason, a great deal to the harness-maker, as the timber 



42 MADAME BOVARY 

of the cider-press had to be repaired : *' If he asks her 
of me," he said to himself, "I will give her to him." 

About St. Michael's day, Charles went to spend 
three days at the Bertaux. The last day had passed 
away like the preceding ones, in postponing from one 
quarter of an hour to another. The Pere Rouault was 
conducting him ; they were walking in a sunken road, 
they were about to separate ; this was the moment. 
Charles gave himself up to the corner of the hedge, 
and finally, when they had passed it : 

" Maitre Rouault," murmured he, "I should like to 
say something to you." 

They stopped. Charles was silent. 

" But tell me your story ! Do I not know all about 
it?" said the Pere Rouault, laughing softly. 

"Pere Rouault . . . Pere Rouault ..." stam- 
mered Charles. 

"For myself I do not ask anything better," con- 
tinued the former. " Although doubtless the little one 
is of my opinion, we shall, however, have to ask her 
advice. You can go away then ; I am going to return 
to the house. If it is yes, understand me clearly, you 
will not have to come back, because of the others 
about and, moreover, that would agitate her too much. 
But, that you may not heat your blood too much, I 
will push wide open the shutter of the window against 
the wall ; you can see it from behind by leaning over 
the hedge." And he went away. 



PART FIRST 43 

Charles fastened his horse to a tree. He hastened to 
post himself in the path ; he waited. A half hour 
passed, then he counted nineteen minutes on his watch. 
Suddenly a noise was heard against the wall ; the 
shutter had been thrown open, the fastening was still 
shaking. 

The next morning at nine o'clock he was at the 
farm. Emma reddened when he entered, even while 
striving to laugh a little in order to keep up a good 
countenance. The Pere Rouault embraced his future 
son-in-law. The discussion of the financial arrange- 
ment was postponed. They had, moreover, plenty of 
time before them, since the marriage could not decently 
take place before the end of the period of Charles's 
mourning, that is to say, about the spring of the fol- 
lowing year. 

The winter was passed in this waiting. Made- 
moiselle Rouault occupied herself with her trousseau. 
A portion of it was ordered in Rouen, and she made 
the chemises and night-caps according to the designs 
of the fashions which she borrowed. In the visits 
which Charles made to her at the farm they discussed 
the preparations for the wedding. They asked in what 
apartment the dinner should be given ; they meditated 
upon the number of plates that would be necessary and 
what should be the dishes. 

Emma, on the contrary, would have desired to be 
married at midnight by the light of torches ; but the 



44 MADAME BOVARY 

Pere Rouault could not understand this idea. There 
was then a wedding, to which there came forty-three 
persons, and at which they remained sixteen hours at 
table, which recommenced the next day and a little on 
the following days. 



IV 



The guests arrived at an early hour in carriages, cov- 
ered carts with one horse, two-wheeled carts, old 
cabriolets without a hood, spring carts with leather 
curtains, and the young people of the nearest villages 
in carts in which they stood up in rows, holding on to 
the side ladders in order not to fall, going at a trot and 
very much shaken. They came from a distance of ten 
leagues, from Goderville, from Normanville, and from 
Cany. All the relations of the two families had been 
invited, reconciliations had been effected with estranged 
friends, acquaintances long since forgotten had been 
written to. 

From time to time, the cracking of a whip could be 
heard behind the hedge ; presently the gate opened ; it 
was a covered cart which entered. Galloping up to 
the front door steps it there pulled up short and 
emptied out its crowd, who descended on all sides, 
rubbing their knees and stretching their arms. The 



PART FIRST 45 

ladies in bonnets, wore dresses after the fashions of 
the city, watch chains in gold, pelerines with the ends 
crossed in at the waist, or little colored fichus fastened 
in the back with a pin and which revealed the back of 
the neck. The youths, dressed in the same manner as 
their papas, seemed to be much incommoded by their 
new coats — many even assumed on that day the first 
pair of boots in their existence — and there could be 
seen beside them, not uttering a word, in the white 
dress of her first communion, lengthened for the occa- 
sion, some tall young girl of fourteen or sixteen, their 
cousin or their eldest sister doubtless, red in the face, 
bewildered, her hair greased with pomade a la rose, 
and very much afraid of soiling her gloves. As there 
were not enough stable men to unharness all the car- 
riages, the messieurs rolled up their sleeves and 
attended to it themselves. According to their different 
social positions, they wore coats, frock coats, vests, 
short-skirted coats : — good coats, surrounded with all the 
consideration of a family, and which only issued from 
the wardrobes for solemnities ; frock coats with great 
skirts floating in the wind, with rolling collars, with 
pockets as large as sacks ; vests of coarse cloth which 
were ordinarily accompanied by a cap with a band of 
leather at the visor ; short-skirted coats, very short, 
having at the back two buttons very close together like 
a pair of eyes, and the skirts of which seemed even 
as though they had been cut off at one blow by the 



46 MADAME BOVARY 

carpenter's axe. Some persons even — but these, very 
certainly, would dine at the lower end of the table — 
wore blouses of ceremony, that is to say, with the col- 
lar turned down on the shoulder, the back gathered in 
little plaits, and the waist attached very low down by a 
sewed waistband. 

And the shirt fronts over the chests bulged like 
cuirasses. Everybody was newly shorn, all the ears 
stood out from the heads, every one was shaved close ; 
some even, who had risen before daylight, not having 
been able to see well for this operation, had diagonal 
scars under the nose, or on the sides of the jaws, the 
skin peeled off in places as large as three-franc pieces 
and which had been inflamed by the open air during 
the journey, which had the effect of marbling some- 
what with red spots all these great white expanded 
faces. 

The mayor's office being situated at a distance of 
half a league from the farm everybody went there on 
foot, and returned in the same manner when the cere- 
mony had been performed in the church. The proces- 
sion, at first keeping together like a long scarf of 
various colors, which undulated through the country 
along the narrow foot path winding between the grow- 
ing grain, soon lengthened out and broke up into dif- 
ferent groups which lingered to talk. The fiddler went 
at the head with his violin decked out with ribbons 
on the handle, the married couple next, the parents, 






« 






3&gt; 


^ 
« 




^ 

8 




S» 

&lt;5&gt; 


sT 
H 




Si 


■s 


1 


•&lt;4 




"^ 


Si 




&lt;3 


bo 


"^ 


&lt;i 




^a 


\j 






Sf 


"«S 


S 




&lt;s 


si 




c 

s« 

Si 


Si 
S* 


bo 

Is?* 

§ 


Sj 

Sj 


si 


'&lt;t 
.&lt;o 


Vj 

Sj 

E 

«2 


~si 

Si 


-si 


Si 


Si 

|o 

Si 


*s* 


$5 

i 

^2 




st 


£ 

^ 

** 


£ 

^ 

o 




8 

&lt;-5 


&lt;o 


*0 


Si 

%1 


v. 
s2 


Q 


&gt;o 


^1 


sT 


? 


« 


« 


.^i 


si 

&lt;0 


&lt;o 


b« 
ST 


b^O 


^0 


Si 
Si 


St 
&lt;o 

Si 


Si 


5&gt; 


&amp; 


"s 






Sj 


Q&gt; 


sf 




^ 






^3 


§ 


SN 

s 


&lt;3 


R 


S3 


Si 
8 


bo 

*3 


5 


►5^ 

^3 












"S 


.8 


^ 


§ 


*si 

s» 









PART FIRST 47 

the friends scattered at hazard ; and the children 
remained behind, amusing themselves by pulling the 
little bell-flowers between the stems of the oats or by 
playing among themselves without being seen. Emma's 
dress, which was too long, dragged a little at the bot- 
tom ; from time to time she stopped to gather it up 
and then delicately, with her gloved fingers she picked 
off the coarse grasses with the little ears of the thistle 
while Charles, his hands empty, waited till she had 
finished. The Pere Rouault, a new silk hat on his 
head and the cuffs of his black coat covering his hands 
to the finger nails, gave his arm to Madame Bovary 
mere. As to Monsieur Bovary pere, who, despising 
at bottom all these people, was simply dressed in a 
frock coat with one row of buttons of a military cut, 
he was entertaining with his gallantries of the tavern a 
young blonde peasant girl. She courtesied, blushed, did 
not know what to reply. The other wedding guests 
talked of their affairs or gave each other little pokes in 
the back, inciting each other in advance to gaiety ; and 
by lending the ear there could be heard continually the 
harsh strains of the fiddler who continued to play 
unceasingly through the fields. When he perceived 
that everybody was at a long distance behind him he 
stopped to take breath, rubbing his bow assiduously 
with resin so that the strings might twang more 
strongly ; and then he set out again, raising and lower- 
ing alternately the handle of his violin in order to 



48 MADAME BOVARY 

mark the time for himself effectively. The sound 
of the instrument at a distance drove away the little 
birds. 

The table was set up under the shed of the cart 
house. There were upon it four sirloins of beef, six 
chickens fricasseed, veal a la casserole, three legs of 
mutton and, in the middle, a pretty sucking pig, 
roasted, flanked by four dishes of chitterlings dressed 
with sorrel. At the angles were placed the brandy in 
carafes. The sweet cider in bottles pushed its thick 
foam up around the corks ; and all the glasses had been 
filled with wine up to the brim in advance. Great 
dishes of yellow cream which were agitated at each 
jog given to the table presented, designed upon their 
united surface, the initials of the newly married couple 
in arabesques of small sugar plums. The pastry and 
the nougats had been procured from a pastry cook at 
Yvetot. As he had but just set up business in the 
district, he had carefully looked after everything, and 
he brought in himself for dessert a mounted piece 
which drew forth cries of admiration. At the base, to 
begin with, it was a square of blue cardboard repre- 
senting a temple with porticoes, colonnades and statu- 
ettes in stucco, constructed all around it, in niches lit 
by constellations of stars in gold paper ; then rose as a 
second story a donjon in gateau de Savoie, surrounded 
by delicate fortifications in angeliqtie, almonds, dried 
raisins, quarters of oranges, and, finally, on the upper 



PART FIRST 49 

platform, which was a green meadow in which there 
were rocks with lakes of jelly and boats of nut shells, 
there could be seen a little Cupid balancing himself in 
a little swing of chocolate the two uprights of which 
were terminated at the top by two natural rosebuds in 
the guise of balls. 

The eating was continued until the evening. When 
they became too tired of sitting still, they rose and 
went to walk in the courtyard or to play a game of 
bouchon in the barn ; then they returned to the table. 
Some of them, toward the end, went to sleep and 
snored. But at the coffee all were reanimated ; then 
songs were started, feats of strength were essayed, 
weights were carried, there were passings under the 
thumb, trials of lifting carts on the shoulders, smutty 
stories were told, the ladies were kissed. In the even- 
ing at setting out the horses, gorged with oats up to 
their nostrils, were with difficulty backed between the 
shafts, they kicked, they reared ; the harness broke, 
their masters swore or laughed ; and all night long by 
the light of the moon, over the roads of the country 
there were runaway carts carried along at full gallop, 
bounding over the drains of the road, leaping over 
yards of small stones, clinging to the slopes of the hills, 
with women leaning out of the doors to seize the reins. 

Those who remained at the Bertaux passed the night 
drinking in the kitchen. The children went to sleep 
on the benches. 



50 MADAME BOVARY 

The bride had entreated her father that she might be 
spared the usual pleasantries. However, one of their 
cousins, a dealer in sea fish — who had even brought as a 
wedding present a pair of soles — had commenced to 
blow water with his mouth through the keyhole when 
the Pere Rouault arrived just in time to prevent him, 
and explained to him that the dignified position of his 
son-in-law did not permit of such inconvenient prac- 
tices. The cousin, however, was with difficulty con- 
vinced by these reasons. In his heart he accused the 
Pere Rouault of being proud ; and he went to join in a 
corner four or five others of the guests, who, having 
been given accidentally several times in succession at 
the table the poorer portions of the dishes, concluded 
also that they had not been well received, fell to whis- 
pering regarding their host and bespoke his ruin in 
smothered words. 

Madame Bovary mere had not opened her mouth 
during the day. She had not been consulted, neither 
on the toilet of her daughter-in-law nor on the arrange- 
ment of the festival ; she withdrew at an early hour. 
Her spouse, instead of following her, sent for cigars to 
St. Victor and smoked until daylight, drinking grogs of 
kirsch, a mixture unknown to the company and which 
procured for him a still greater consideration. 

Charles was not of a facetious complexion, he had 
not shone during the wedding. He replied in a medi- 
ocre way to the quibbles, puns, words with double 



PART FIRST 51 

meaning, compliments and vulgar jokes which every- 
one considered it a duty to launch at him from the 
time that the soup was put on the table. 

But the next day, in revenge, he seemed to be 
another man. It was he rather who would have been 
taken for the virgin of the evening before, whilst the 
bride permitted nothing to be discovered where some- 
thing might have been supposed. The most malicious 
did not know what to reply, and they looked at her 
when she passed by them, with the very greatest close- 
ness of attention. But Charles did not dissimulate in 
the least. He called her "My wife," thou 'd her, 
asked about her from every one, looked for her every- 
where, and often he took her off into the courtyards 
where, as could be seen from a distance between the 
trees, he passed his arm around her waist and con- 
tinued to walk leaning over her and grazing with his 
head the guimp of her corsage. 

Two days after the wedding the married couple went 
away; Charles because of his patients could not be 
absent any longer. The Pere Rouault had them go in 
his covered cart and accompanied them himself as far 
as Vassonville. 

There he embraced his daughter for the last time, 
dismounted, and resumed his homeward route. When 
he had taken about a hundred steps he stopped, and as 
he saw the cart disappearing in the distance with the 
wheels turning in the dust he gave a great sigh. The 



52 MADAME BOVARY 

memory of his own wedding came back to him, his 
early life, the first confinement of his wife; he had 
been very joyful, he also, on the day on which he had 
brought her from her father's house into his own, when 
he carried her on the croup of his horse trotting 
through the snow ; for it was at Christmas time and the 
country was all white ; she clung to him with one arm 
whilst the other held her hamper ; the wind blew out 
the long laces of her head-dress of her country of Caux 
which sometimes flapped against his mouth, and when 
he turned his head he saw close to him at his shoulder 
her little rosy aspect smiling silently under the golden 
flap of her bonnet. In order to warm her fingers she 
put them from time to time in her bosom. How 
old all that was ! Their son at present would have 
been thirty years of age ! Then he looked behind 
him: he saw nothing at all on the road. He felt 
himself sad like a dismantled house ; and the tender 
souvenirs mingling with dark thoughts in his brain 
obscured by the vapors of the junketing, he had a 
strong desire for a moment to go and walk around 
the church. But as he was afraid that this sight 
would only render him still more sad, he returned to 
his home. 

Monsieur and Madame Charles arrived at Tostes 
about six o'clock in the evening. The neighbors 
stationed themselves at their windows to see their doc- 
tor's new wife. 



PART FIRST 53 

The old servant presented herself, made her saluta- 
tions, excused herself for not having the dinner ready, 
and invited madame while waiting for it, to inspect her 
house. 



The brick front wall was on a line with the street, or 
rather with the road. Behind the door was hung a 
cloak with a little collar, a bridle, a cap of black 
leather, and in a corner on the floor a pair of gaiters 
still covered with dry mud. On the right was the salle, 
that is to say, the apartment in which the occupants 
dined and where they lived. A paper of a canary- 
yellow color, relieved in the upper part by a garland of 
pale flowers, shook everywhere on its badly stretched 
canvas backing ; curtains of white calico edged with a 
red lace crossed one another in the windows and on 
the narrow chimney-piece glittered a clock with a head 
of Hippocrates, between two candlesticks of plated 
silver under globes oval in shape. On the other side 
of the corridor was the cabinet of Charles, a little 
room about six paces in width with a table, three chairs 
and an office armchair. The volumes of the Diction- 
naire des Sciences Medicale, the leaves not cut, but the 
bindings of which had suffered in each one of the suc- 
cessive sales through which they had passed, furnished 



54 MADAME BOVARY 

almost entirely the six shelves of the library in fir 
wood. The smell of browned butter from the kitchen 
penetrated through the walls during the consultations ; 
just as there could be heard in the kitchen the patients 
coughing in the cabinet and relating all their symptoms. 
Next to this, opening immediately upon the courtyard 
in which was the stable, was a large, unfurnished apart- 
ment which contained a furnace, and which now served 
as a wood-house, as a cellar, as a store-house full of old 
iron work, of empty barrels, of agricultural implements 
retired from service, with a quantity of other dusty 
things of which it was impossible to guess the use. 

The garden, longer than it was wide, was enclosed 
between two walls of coarse mortar over which apricots 
were trained en espalier as far as a hedge of thorns 
which separated it from the fields. There was in the 
middle a sun-dial in slate upon a masonry pedestal; 
four beds garnished with straggling eglantine bushes 
surrounded symmetrically the more useful squares of 
serious vegetables. Quite at the end, under the hem- 
lock spruce trees, a cure in plaster-of-paris was reading 
his breviary. 

Emma went upstairs to the chambers. The first was 
not furnished ; but the second, which was the conjugal 
one, had a mahogany bedstead in an alcove with red 
draperies. A box ornamented with shell-work deco- 
rated the commode; and on the secretary near the 
window there was in a carafe a bouquet of orange 



PART FIRST 55 

flowers tied with ribbons of white satin. It was the 
bride's bouquet, the bouquet of the other ! She looked 
at it. Charles perceived it ; he took it and carried it off 
to the garret, while, seated in an armchair — her effects 
being arranged around her — Emma thought of her own 
marriage bouquet, which was packed up in a paste- 
board box, and asked herself in a revery what would be 
done with it if, by chance, she should happen to die. 

She occupied herself, the first days, in considering 
the changes to be made in the house. She took off the 
globes of the candlesticks, had new paper put on the 
walls, painted the stairway, and had benches put in the 
garden all around the sun dial ; she even inquired how 
she should arrange to have a basin with a little fountain 
and fish. Finally, her husband, knowing that she 
liked to ride in a carriage, found a second-hand boc 
which, when it was furnished with new lanterns and 
with mud-guards in sewed leather, almost resembled a 
tilbury. 

He was now happy and without a care in the world. 
A meal taken tete-a-tete, a walk in the evening on the 
high-road, a gesture of her hand on her hair, the sight 
of her straw hat hung on the fastening of a window, 
and many other things in which Charles had never sus- 
pected pleasure, now constituted the continuity of his 
happiness. In bed, in the morning, and side by side 
on the pillow, he watched the sunlight filter through 
the down of her fair cheeks, scarcely covered by the 



56 MADAME BOVARY 

scalloped flaps of her night-cap. Seen so near, her 
eyes seemed to him to have grown larger, especially 
when she opened several times in succession her eyelids 
when awakening; black in the shadow and dark blue 
in the full light, they had as it were layers of successive 
colors and which, thicker in the depths, proceeded by 
gradual lightening toward the surface of the enamel. 
His own eye lost itself in these depths; and he saw 
himself in them as a little figure as far as his shoulders, 
with a foulard on his head and the upper part of his 
night shirt opened. He rose. She placed herself at 
the window to see him depart, and remained leaning 
on her elbows on the sill, between two pots of gera- 
niums, clothed in her wrapper which was loose around 
her. Charles, in the street, buckled on his spurs on 
the curbstone ; she continued to talk with him from 
above, all the while picking off with her mouth some 
spray of flower or of a leaf which she blew out toward 
him, and which, floating, sustaining itself, making in 
the air semicircles like a bird, settled before falling on 
the ground in the badly groomed mane of the old 
white mare motionless at the door. Charles in the 
saddle sent her a kiss ; she replied by a sign, she closed 
the windows; he departed; and on the high-road 
which extended interminably its long ribbon of dust, 
through the sunken lanes over which the trees arched 
themselves like a bower, in the paths where the grain 
rose to his knee, with the sun on his shoulders, and the 



PART FIRST 57 

morning air in his nostrils, his heart full of the felici- 
ties of the night, his mind tranquil, his flesh contented, 
he went ruminating on his happiness, like those who 
masticate over again after dinner the taste of the truffles 
which they are digesting. 

Up to this time, what had he had of good in his life ? 
Was it when he was at college where he remained shut 
up between those high walls, alone in the midst of his 
comrades richer or stronger than he in their classes, 
whom he caused to laugh by his accent, who made fun 
of his clothes, and whose mothers came to see them in 
the parlor with little pies and cakes in their muffs? 
Was it later when he was studying medicine and never 
had enough in his purse to take to a country ball some 
little workwoman who had become his mistress? 
Finally, he had lived during fourteen months with the 
widow whose feet in bed were as cold as pieces of ice. 
But at present, he possessed for life this pretty woman 
whom he adored. The universe for him did not 
extend beyond the silken circuit of her petticoat ; and 
he reproached himself with not loving her, he felt a 
desire to see her again, he returned quickly, mounted 
the stairs with a beating heart. Emma, in her cham- 
ber, was occupied with her toilet ; he came in with 
noiseless footsteps, he kissed her in the back, she 
uttered a cry. 

He could not refrain from touching continually her 
comb, her rings, her fichu ; sometimes he gave her on 



58 MADAME BOVARY 

the cheeks great kisses full-mouthed, or it was little 
kisses in a row the whole length of her naked arm, 
from the end of her fingers to the shoulder ; and she 
repulsed him, half smiling and bored, as one does with 
a child which hangs around you. 

Before her marriage she had thought to have love ; 
but the happiness which should have resulted from this 
love not having arrived it must be that she had deceived 
herself, she thought. And Emma endeavored to know 
just what was understood in life by the words felicity, 
passion and intoxication, which had appeared so beau- 
tiful to her in books. 



VI 



She had read "Paul and Virginia," and she had 
dreamed of the little house of bamboo, the negro 
Domingo, the faithful dog, but above all of the sweet 
friendship of some good little brother who would climb 
to get for you the red fruit in the high trees, taller than 
the steeples, or who would run with bare feet on the 
sand bringing to you a bird's nest. 

When she was thirteen years old, her father brought 
her himself to the city to put her in the convent. 
They stopped at a tavern in the quarter of Saint- 
Gervais where they had at their supper painted plates 



PART FIRST 59 

which represented the history of Mademoiselle de la 
Valliere. The printed explanations, cut here and there 
by the scratching of the knives, glorified greatly the 
religion, the delicacies of the heart and the pomps of 
the court. 

Far from wearying herself in the convent at first, she 
was pleased in the society of the good sisters who in 
order to amuse her, conducted her into the chapel 
which was reached from the refectory through a long 
corridor. She played but very little during the recrea- 
tions, understood her catechism very well, and she it 
was who always replied to Monsieur le Vicaire in diffi- 
cult questions. Living thus without ever going outside 
of the tepid atmosphere of the classes and among these 
women with pale complexions, wearing strings of beads 
with a cross in brass, she yielded herself gradually to 
the mystic languor which exhales from the perfumes of 
the altar, from the freshness of the holy water vessels 
and from the radiance of the candles. Instead of fol- 
lowing the mass, she looked at, in her book, the 
vignettes bordered with azure ; and she loved the sick 
lamb, the sacred heart pierced with sharp darts, or the 
poor Jesus who fell in carrying His cross. She endeav- 
ored, as a penance, to go a whole day without eating. 
She searched in her mind for some vow to accomplish. 
When she went to confession she invented little sins in 
order to remain there the longer kneeling in the shadow, 
her hands joined, her face close to the wicket under 



60 MADAME BOVARY 

the whispering of the priest. The comparisons of 
betrothed, of spouse, of heavenly lover and of eternal 
marriage, which recurred in the sermons, raised up in 
the bottom of her soul unexpected pleasure. 

In the evening before prayers there was a religious 
reading in the study. This was, during the week, some 
resume of sacred history or the Conferences of the 
Abbe Frayssinous, and on Sundays, passages from the 
Genie du Christianisme, for recreation. How she lis- 
tened for the first times to the sonorous lamentation of 
the romantic melancholies repeating themselves in all 
the echoes of earth and of eternity ! If her childhood 
had been passed in the dusty rear shop of some com- 
mercial quarter of the town, her nature would perhaps 
have been opened to the lyric transports of nature, 
which usually only come to us through the translation 
of the writers. But she was too well acquainted with 
the country ; she knew the lowing of the herds, the 
milkings, the ploughings. Accustomed to the calm 
aspects, she turned on the contrary toward the acci- 
dental ones. She loved the sea only because of its 
tempests, and the verdure only when it grew among 
ruins. It was necessary that she should be able to 
draw from things a sort of personal profit and she 
rejected as useless all which did not contribute to that 
which her heart consumed, being in temperament more 
sentimental than artistic, seeking emotions and not 
landscapes. 



PART FIRST 61 

There was, in the convent, an old maid who came 
for a week every month to do the sewing. Protected 
by the Archbishopric as a member of an ancient family 
of gentle-folks ruined under the Revolution, she ate in 
the refectory at the table of the good sisters and held 
with them, after the repast, a little bit of gossip before 
going upstairs again to her work. The boarders fre- 
quently escaped from their studies to come and see her. 
She knew by heart the gallant old songs of the past 
century, which she sang in a low voice, while steadily 
plying her needle. She told stories, brought you news, 
executed your errands in the city, and lent to the 
larger girls secretly romances of which she always had 
one in the pocket of her apron and of which the good 
demoiselle herself swallowed long chapters during the 
intervals of her task. There were nothing but love, 
lovers, loving mistresses, persecuted ladies fainting in 
solitary pavilions, postilions killed at every relay, horses 
ridden to death on every page, sombre forests, heart 
troubles, oaths, sobs, tears and kisses, boats in the 
moonlight, nightingales in the thickets, Messieurs 
brave as lions, gentle as lambs, impossibly virtuous, 
always well arrayed and who wept like urns. For six 
months, at the age of fifteen, Emma buried her hands 
in this dust of the old reading cabinets. With Walter 
Scott, later, she became enamored with historical 
things, dreamed of coffers, guard rooms and minstrels. 
She would have wished to live in some old manor like 



62 MADAME BOVARY 

those chatelaines with long figures who, under the tre- 
foils of their ogive arches passed their days, their 
elbows on the stone and their chins in their hands, 
watching the approach from the distant landscape of a 
cavalier with a white plume on a galloping black horse. 
She entertained at that time the worship of Mary- 
Stuart, and enthusiastic venerations with respect to 
illustrious or unfortunate women. Joan of Arc, 
Helolse, Agnes Sorel, La Belle Ferronniere and 
Clemence Isaure, for her detached themselves like 
comets against the shadowy immensity of history, or 
there broke out again, here and there, but more lost in 
the shadows and without any relation to each other, 
St. Louis with his oak, Bayard dying, some ferocities of 
Louis XL, a little of the St. Bartholomew, the white 
plume of the Bearnais, and always the remembrance of 
the painted plates on which Louis XIV. was extolled. 

In the music class, in the romances which she sang, 
there were nothing but little angels with golden wings, 
Madonnas, lagunes, gondoliers, peaceful compositions 
which allowed to be seen, through the silliness of the 
style and the imprudences of the notation, the attrac- 
tive phantasmagoria of sentimental realities. Some of 
her companions brought to the convent keepsakes 
which they had received as presents. It was necessary 
to keep them concealed ; this was a serious affair ; they 
were read in the dormitory. Handling delicately their 
beautiful satin binding, Emma fixed her dazzled looks 



PART FIRST 63 

upon the names of the unknown authors, usually counts 
or viscounts, their names at the ends of their articles. 
She trembled slightly in lifting with her breath the 
silk tissue paper of the engravings which rose half 
folded on itself and fell back softly against the page. 
There was, behind the balustrade of a balcony, a young 
man in a short mantle who clasped in his arms a young 
girl in a white robe with an alms-purse at her girdle, or 
else anonymous portraits of English ladies with blonde 
curls who, under their large straw round hats, looked 
at you with their great clear eyes. They could be seen 
displayed in their carriages gliding softly through the 
midst of parks, with a greyhound leaping before the 
equipage, which was conducted at a trot by two little 
postilions in white breeches. Others, dreaming on 
sofas, with an unsealed letter beside them, contemplated 
the moon through the half-open window partially 
draped with a black curtain. Ingenuous ones, with a 
tear on their cheeks, exchanged kisses with a turtle 
dove through the bars of a Gothic cage, or, smiling, 
the head inclined on the shoulder, touched the petals 
of a daisy with their pointed fingers turned up at the 
ends like peaked shoes. And you were to be found 
there also, sultans with long pipes, rapturously reclin- 
ing under bowers in the arms of bayaderes, giaours, 
Turkish sabres, Greek bonnets and you, above all, wan 
landscapes of dithyrambic countries which often show 
to us at the same time palm trees, fir trees, tigers on 



64 MADAME BOVARY 

the right, a lion on the left, Tartar minarets on the 
horizon, in the foreground Roman ruins, then kneeling 
camels ; the whole surrounded by a virgin forest, care- 
fully cleaned, with a great ray of sunlight falling per- 
pendicularly trembling in the water, where are relieved 
like white peelings, against a background of gray steel, 
from distance to distance the swimming swans. 

And the shade of the lamp fastened in the wall 
above Emma's head threw the light upon all these pic- 
tures of the world, which passed before her one after 
the other, in the silence of the dormitory and to the 
distant sound of some belated hackney coach foiling 
along the boulevard. 

When her mother died she wept a great deal, for the 
first few days. She had made for herself a funerary 
picture with the hair of the deceased, and in a letter 
which she sent to the Bertaux full of sorrowful reflec- 
tions upon life, she asked that she might be buried later 
in the same tomb. The goodman thought her sick and 
came to see her. Emma was inwardly much satisfied 
to feel that she had attained at the first stroke to that 
rare ideal of pale existences to which the mediocre 
hearts never attain. She allowed herself then to glide 
into Lamartinian meanderings, listened to the harps 
upon the lakes, all the songs of dying swans, all the 
fallings of the leaves, the pure virgins who ascend to 
heaven, and the voice of the Eternal discoursing in the 
valleys. She wearied herself in it, would not admit 



PART FIRST 65 

it to herself, continued through force of habit, then 
through vanity, and was finally surprised to feel herself 
pacified and without any more sadness in her heart 
than wrinkles on her forehead. 

The good nuns, who had presumed so much upon 
her vocation, perceived with great surprise that Made- 
moiselle Rouault seemed to be escaping from their 
care. They had, in fact, so plentifully bestowed upon 
her the offices of the church, the retreats, the neuvains, 
the sermons, so well preached the respect which is due 
to the saints and the martyrs, and given so many good 
counsels for the modesty of the body and the salvation 
of her soul, that she did as horses do who are pulled 
along by the bridle, — she stopped short and the bit 
issued from between her teeth. This spirit, positive in 
the midst of all her enthusiasms, which had loved the 
church for its flowers, music for its romantic words, and 
literature for its passionate excitations, rebelled before 
the mysteries of the faith, in the same way as she had 
formerly been irritated by discipline, which was some- 
thing antipathetic to her constitution. When her 
father withdrew her from the school, no one was 
grieved to see her depart. The Mother Superior even 
considered that she had become, in the later days, less 
reverential towards the convent. 

Returned to her own house, Emma was pleased at first 
by the supervision of the domestics, then conceived a 
disgust for the country and regretted her convent. 



66 MADAME BOVARY 

When Charles came to the Bertaux for the first time, 
she considered herself as completely freed from all 
illusions, having nothing more to learn, obliged to feel 
nothing more. 

But the perplexity of a new condition, or perhaps 
the irritation caused by the presence of this man, had 
sufficed to make her believe that she was finally in 
possession of this marvelous passion, which, up to this 
time, had maintained itself like a great bird with rosy 
plumage floating in the splendor of poetic skies ; and 
she could not conceive at present that this calm in 
which she lived was the happiness of which she had 
dreamed. 



VII 



She thought sometimes that these were, however, 
the finest days of life, the honeymoon as it is said. To 
taste fully the sweetness of them, it would have been 
necessary, doubtless, to depart for those countries with 
sonorous names where the mornings after marriage have 
the softest idlenesses ! In the post-chaises, from behind 
the shades of blue silk, the ascent is made by cragged 
routes, listening to the song of the postilion, which is 
repeated on the mountain by the bells of the goats 
and the noise of the cascade. When the sun sets, the 



PART FIRST 67 

perfume of the lemon trees is diffused on the edge of the 
gulfs ; then in the evening on the terraces of the villas, 
alone and with intertwined fingers, the stars are contem- 
plated and projects are formed. It seemed to her that 
certain localities upon the earth should produce happi- 
ness, like a plant peculiar to the soil, and which does 
not grow well anywhere else. Why could she not 
lean her elbows on the balcony of the Swiss chalets, or 
enclose her sadness in a Scottish cottage with a hus- 
band wearing a coat of black velvet with long skirts 
and who had long soft boots, a pointed chapeau and 
ruffles at his wrists ? 

Perhaps she would have wished to confide all these 
things to some one. But how to express an undefinable 
uneasiness, which changes in aspect like the clouds, 
which eddies like the wind ? Words failed her then, 
the occasion, the courage. 

If Charles had been willing, however, if he had 
known of it, if his look, one time only, had encoun- 
tered her thought, it seemed to her that a sudden 
abundance would have been detached from her heart, 
as the gathering from a fruit tree falls when it is carried 
in the hands. But in proportion as the intimacy of 
their life became still closer, an inward detachment was 
produced, which unbound her from him. 

The conversation of Charles was as flat as the pave- 
ment of the street, and everybody's ideas appeared 
in it in their ordinary costume, without exciting any 



6S MADAME BOVARY 

emotions, of laughter or of revery. He had never had 
the curiosity, he said, while he lived in Rouen to go to a 
theatre to see the actors from Paris. He did not know 
how to swim nor to exercise with arms, nor to shoot 
with a pistol, and he could not one day explain a term 
of equitation which she had met with in a novel. 

A man, on the contrary, should he not know every- 
thing, excel in multiplied activities, initiate you into 
the energies of passion, into all mysteries? But he 
instructed in nothing, this one, knew nothing, wished 
nothing. He believed her happy ; and she was vexed 
with him for this calmness so well assured, for the 
serene heaviness, for the happiness even which she 
gave him. 

Some time she designed ; and it was a great amuse- 
ment for Charles to remain standing watching her, 
leaning over her portfolio, half closing her eyes in 
order to see her work better, or a rounding under her 
thumb pellets of the soft part of the bread. As to the 
piano, the swifter her fingers flew over it, the more he 
was amazed. She struck the keys with decision and 
swept from one end of the keyboard to the other with- 
out interruption. Thus agitated by her, the old instru- 
ment, the chords of which curled and twisted, made 
itself heard as far as the end of the village if the win- 
dow was open, and often the bailiff's clerk passing by 
on the high-road, bare-headed and in slippers, stopped 
to listen, his sheet of paper in his hand. 



PART FIRST 69 

Emma, on the other hand, knew how to keep her 
house. She sent to the patients the accounts for the 
doctor's visits in well expressed letters which did not 
suggest bills. When they had on Sunday some neigh- 
bor to dinner she found a way of offering some delicate 
dish, she knew how to arrange little pyramids of green- 
gages on vine leaves, served pots of jelly turned out in 
the plate, and she even spoke of buying finger-bowls 
for the dessert. From all of which it followed that a 
great deal of consideration was reflected upon Bovary. 

Charles ended by having a still higher estimation of 
himself because he possessed such a wife. He showed 
with pride in their apartment two little lead-pencil 
sketches by her which he had had framed in very large 
frames and suspended against the paper of the wall by 
long green cords. When the mass was over, he could 
be seen in his doorway, in handsome embroidered 
slippers. 

He came home late, at ten o'clock, sometimes mid- 
night. Then he wanted something to eat ; and as the 
servant had gone to bed it was Emma who served him. 
He took off his coat to dine more at his ease. He told, 
one after the other, of all the people whom he had met, 
the villages where he had been, the prescriptions which 
he had written ; and, well satisfied with himself, he 
devoured the rest of the stew, cut the rind off his cheese, 
bit into an apple, emptied his carafe, then went to bed, 
went to sleep on his back and snored. 



70 MADAME BOVARY 

As he had long been in the habit of wearing a cotton 
night-cap, his foulard did not remain over his ears; 
thus his hair in the, .morning was very much tumbled 
around his face and whitened by the down of his pil- 
low, the cords of which had become untied during the 
night. He always wore heavy boots, which had at 
the instep two thick folds going obliquely toward the 
ankles whilst the rest of the upper leather was con- 
tinued in a straight line, stretched as if by a wooden 
foot. He said that this was plenty good enough for the 
country. 

His mother encouraged him in this economy ; for 
she came to see him as formerly whenever there had 
been at her own house some somewhat violent outbreak ; 
and yet Madame Bovary mere seemed to have some 
prejudice against her daughter-in-law. She considered 
her to be of a style too high for their position in life ; the 
wood, the sugar and the candles disappeared as though 
it were a great house, and the quantity of coal that was 
burned in the kitchen would have sufficed for twenty- 
five plates ! She arranged her linen for her in the 
closets and taught her how to watch the butcher when 
he brought the meat. Emma received these lessons, 
Madame Bovary dispensed them freely ; and the words 
"my daughter" and "my mother" were exchanged 
freely all day long, accompanied with a slight trem- 
bling of the lips, each one uttering gentle words in a 
voice quivering with anger. 



PART FIRST 71 

In the time of Madame Dubuc, the old woman felt 
herself still the preferred one ; but at present Charles's 
love for Emma seemed to her a desertion of her tender- 
ness, an encroachment upon that which belonged to 
her ; and she regarded the happiness of her son with a 
sad silence, like some ruined man who looks through the 
windows at people seated at table in a house that was 
formerly his own. She recalled to him as souvenirs, her 
pains and her sacrifices, and, comparing them to Emma's 
negligences, drew the conclusion that it was not reason- 
able for him to adore her in so exclusive a fashion. 

Charles did not know what to reply; he respected 
his mother and he loved his wife infinitely ; he con- 
sidered the judgment of one as infallible and yet he 
found the other irreproachable. When Madame Bovary 
had departed he undertook to venture timidly, and in 
the same terms, one or two of the most soothing obser- 
vations which he had heard made by his mother ; Emma, 
proving to him by a word that he was mistaken, sent 
him off to his sick people. 

However, following the theories which she thought 
were good, she wished to give herself love. In the 
moonlight, in the garden, she recited to him all the 
passionate rhymes which she knew by heart, and sang 
to him, sighing, melancholy adagios ; but she found 
herself at the end quite as calm as before, and Charles 
did not appear to be, because of them, any more loving 
or any more affected. 



72 MADAME BOVARY 

When she had thus striven a little to strike fire from 
her own heart, without being able to produce the slight- 
est spark, incapable moreover of comprehending that 
which she did not feel, as of believing in all that which 
did not manifest itself under conventional forms, she 
persuaded herself without difficulty that Charles's pas- 
sion had in it nothing exorbitant. His expansions had 
become regular ; he embraced her at certain hours. It 
was a habit among others, and like a dessert which is 
expected in advance after the monotony of the dinner. 

A gamekeeper who had been cured by monsieur of an 
inflammation of the lungs, had given to madame a little 
Italian female greyhound ; she took it with her on her 
walks, for she went out sometimes, so that she might be 
alone for a few moments and not have always under 
her eyes the eternal garden and the dusty road. 

She went as far as the beech wood of Banneville, 
near to the abandoned pavilion which makes the angle 
of a wall on the side of the fields. There are, in the 
steep ditch among the grasses, some long reeds with 
sharp leaves. 

She commenced by looking all around the locality to 
see if nothing had changed since the last time she was 
there. She found again in the same places the fox- 
glove and the wall flowers, the groups of nettles sur- 
rounded the large stones and the patches of lichen along 
the three windows, the shutters of which, always closed, 
were falling to pieces with decay under their rusty iron 



PART FIRST 73 

bars. Her thoughts, without an aim at first, wandered 
at hazard like her greyhound who ran around in the fields 
in circles, barking after the yellow butterflies, chasing 
the shrew-mice, or snapping at the wild poppies on the 
edge of a grain field. Then, little by little, her ideas 
became concentrated ; and, seated on the grass which 
she struck with little strokes of the end of her umbrella, 
Emma repeated to herself: " Why, my God ! did I get 
married ?' ' She asked herself if there would not have 
been some way, by some other combinations of chance, of 
encountering another man; and she tried to imagine what 
might have been these events which had not happened, 
this different life, this husband whom she did not know. 
Nothing, in fact, actually resembled him. He would 
have been handsome, witty, distinguished, attractive, 
such as were doubtless the men who had married her 
former companions of the convent. Where were they 
living now ? In the city with the noise of the streets, 
the humming of the theatres and the brilliancy of the 
balls, they were partaking of that existence in which 
the heart dilates, in which the senses expand. But she, 
her life was cold like a garret which faces the north and 
ennui, that silent spider, spun its web in the shadow in 
all the corners of her heart. She recalled the days of the 
distribution of prizes when she went up on the platform 
to receive her little crowns. With her hair braided, 
her white dress and her prunello shoes visible below, 
she had a pretty manner, and the gentlemen, when she 



74 MADAME BOVARY 

had resumed her place, stooped to pay her compliments ; 
the courtyard was full of carriages, adieus were exchanged 
through their doors, the music-master passed bowing, 
with his violin case. How long ago it was, all that ! 
how long ago it was ! 

She called Djali, took her between her knees, passed 
her fingers over her long fine head and said to her : 
"Come, kiss your mistress, you have no vexations!" 
Then, contemplating the melancholy aspect of the 
slender animal which yawned slowly, she became more 
tender and, comparing it to herself, spoke to it aloud, 
as to some one in affliction whom you wish to console. 

Sometimes there came little squalls of wind, sea 
breezes, which breaking at once over all the plateau of 
the country of Caux, brought with them, even far into 
the fields, a salt freshness. The rushes rustled at the 
surface of the ground, and the leaves of the beeches 
made a noise with their rapid shuddering, whilst the 
summits, swaying backward and forward, continued 
their grand murmur. Emma wrapped her shawl around 
her shoulders and rose. 

In the avenue a greenish light, reflected from the 
foliage, lit the soft moss which crackled softly under her 
feet. The sun went down ; the sky was red between 
the branches, and the trunks, all alike, of the trees 
planted in a straight line seemed a brown colonnade 
relieved against a background of gold ; a sudden fear 
took possession of her, she called Djali, returned quickly 



PART FIRST 75 

to Tostes by the high-road, sank down in an easy-chair 
and did not speak during the whole evening. 

But, toward the end of September, something extra- 
ordinary fell into her life, — she was invited to the 
Vaubyessard place, the home of the Marquis d'Ander- 
villiers. 

Secretary of State under the Restoration, the mar- 
quis, endeavoring to return to political life, was pre- 
paring carefully in advance his candidature for the 
Chamber of Deputies. During the winter he made 
numerous distributions of fire-wood and, in the Council- 
general, always demanded with a great air new roads 
for his arrondissement. He had had, during the great 
heats, an abscess in the mouth which Charles had relieved 
him of as if by a miracle, by a lancet stroke. His busi- 
ness agent, sent to Tostes to pay for the operation, hap- 
pened to say in the evening that he had seen superb 
cherries in the physician's little garden. Now, the 
cherry-trees were not blooming well at the Vaubyessard. 
Monsieur le marquis sent to ask some slips from Bovary, 
made it his duty to go and thank him himself, saw 
Emma, found her figure pretty and that she did not 
bow like a peasant woman ; so that, at the chateau, it 
was concluded that it would not be exceeding the bounds 
of condescension nor, on the other hand, committing an 
awkwardness, to invite the young couple. 

At three o'clock, one Wednesday afternoon, Monsieur 
and Madame Bovary mounted in their boc set out for 



76 MADAME BOVARY 

the Vaubyessard with a great trunk strapped on behind 
and a hat-box placed before the apron. Charles had, 
moreover, a bandbox between his legs. 

They arrived as the night was falling, as the lamps in 
the park were being lit in order to furnish light for the 
carriages. 



VIII 

The chateau, of modern construction, in Italian style, 
with two wings advancing and three perrons, extended 
itself at the lower part of an immense lawn on which a 
few cows were pasturing between groups of great trees 
widely spaced, whilst clusters of bushes, rhododendrons, 
syringas and snowballs displayed their tufts of unequal 
verdure along the curved line of the sanded road. A 
stream passed under a bridge ; through the obscurity 
the buildings, with thatched roofs, could be discerned, 
scattered about in the meadow, along the edges of 
which rose in gentle slopes two hills covered with wood 
and behind the clumps of foliage, on two parallel lines, 
were the coach-houses and the stables, remnants of the 
ancient chatau which had been demolished. 

Charles's hoc stopped before the middle perron ; the 
domestics appeared; the marquis advanced, and, offering 
his arm to the doctor's wife, led her into the vestibule. 



PART FIRST 77 

It was laid with marble tiles, was very high ; and the 
sound of the footsteps with that of the voices echoed in 
it as in a church. Directly opposite, a straight stair- 
way ascended and at the left a gallery opening on a 
garden conducted to the billiard room, from which 
might be heard, even at the door, the click of the ivory 
balls. As she passed through to go to the salon, Emma 
saw around the tables men with grave countenances, 
the chins poised upon high cravats, all of them deco- 
rated and who smiled silently, with long queues at their 
backs. On the dark wood-work of the wainscoting the 
great golden picture frames bore at the bottom of their 
mouldings, names in black letters. She read: "Jean- 
Antoine d'Andervilliers d'Yverbonville, Comte de la 
Vaubyessard and Baron de la Fresnaye, killed at the 
Battle of Coutras, 20th of October, 1587." And on 
another : " Jean-Antoine-Henri-Guy d'Andervilliers de 
la Vaubyessard, Admiral of France and Chevalier of 
the Order of St. Michael, wounded at the combat of la 
Hougue-Saint-Vaast, the 29th of May, 1692, died at 
the Vaubyessard, the 23rd of January, 1693." Those 
which followed could scarcely be distinguished, for the 
light of the lamp, thrown down upon the green carpet 
of the billiard room, left a shadow floating in the apart- 
ment. Darkening the horizontal canvases, it broke 
upon them in sharp reflections according to the crack- 
ing of the varnish ; and from all these great black 
squares bordered with gold, there came out here and 



78 MADAME BOVARY 

there some portion lighter in the painting, a pale fore- 
head, two eyes which looked at you, perukes unrolling 
on the powdered shoulders of red coats, or even the 
buckle of a garter on the upper portion of a rounded 
calf. 

The marquis opened the door of the salon; one of 
the ladies rose — the marchioness herself — came to meet 
Emma and caused her to take a seat beside her on 
a little sofa where she commenced to talk to her in a 
friendly fashion, as if she had already known her a long 
time. She was a woman of about forty, with fine 
shoulders, a high nose, a drawling voice, and wearing 
that evening over her chestnut hair a simple fichu of 
guipure which fell behind in a triangular piece. A 
young blonde woman was at her side in a chair with a 
long back ; and gentlemen with little flowers in the but- 
tonholes of their coats were talking with the ladies all 
around the chimney-piece. 

At seven o'clock the dinner was served. The men, 
being the most numerous, were seated at the first table in 
the vestibule and the ladies at the second in the dining- 
room with the marquis and the marchioness. 

Emma felt herself, on entering, enveloped in a warm 
air mingled with the perfume of flowers and the fine 
linen, the flavor of the dishes and the odor of truffles. 
The candles of the candelabra lengthened the reflection 
of their flames on the silver covers; the facets of the 
glasses, covered with an unpolished lustre, sent back pale 



PART FIRST 79 

rays ; the bouquets were arranged in a line along the 
whole length of the table ; and in the plates with wide 
borders, the napkins, folded in the shape of a bishop's 
mitre, held between the opening of their two folds, 
each one a little loaf of bread of an oval form. The 
red claws of the lobsters extended over the edges of 
their plates ; the large fruit in the open work baskets 
were piled up upon moss ; the quails still retained their 
feathers, the flavors ascended ; and in silk stockings and 
knee breeches, with a white cravat, a jabot, grave as a 
judge, the maitre d' hotel, passing between the shoulders 
of the guests the meats already cut up, brought out with 
a stroke of his spoon for each one the morsel he had 
chosen. On top of the great porcelain stove with brass 
mouldings a statue of a woman, draped to the chin, con- 
templated motionless the apartment full of people. 

Madame Bovary noticed that several of the ladies 
had not put their gloves in their wine glasses. 

Moreover, at the upper end of the table, alone among 
all these women, stooping over his filled plate and his 
napkin knotted behind his back like an infant's, an old 
man was eating, letting drops of the sauce fall from his 
mouth. His eyes were bloodshot, and he wore a little 
queue rolled with a black ribbon. This was the father- 
in-law of the marquis, the old Due de Laverdiere, the 
ancient favorite of the Comte d'Artois, in the times of 
the hunting-parties at Vaudreuil with the Marquis de 
Conflans, and who had been, it was said, the lover of 



80 MADAME BOVARY 

the Queen, Marie Antoinette, between Messieurs de 
Coigny and de Lauzun. He had led a turbulent life of 
debauchery, full of duels, of bets, of women abducted, 
had devoured all his fortune and frightened all his 
family. A servant behind his chair gave him the names, 
aloud in his ear, of the dishes which he designated by 
pointing with his finger and stammering ; and Emma's 
eyes ceaselessly returned of their own volition to this 
old man with hanging lips as to something extraordi- 
nary and august. He had lived at the Court and slept 
in the bed of queens ! 

The champagne was served on ice. Emma shivered 
through all her skin on feeling this cold in her mouth. 
She had never seen pomegranates nor eaten pineapples. 
The powdered sugar even seemed to her whiter and finer 
than elsewhere. 

The ladies afterwards ascended to their chambers to 
make their toilets for the ball. 

Emma dressed herself with the fastidious conscien- 
tiousness of an actress at her debut. She arranged her 
hair according to the recommendation of the coiffeur, 
and she put on her dress of barege which was spread 
out on the bed. Charles's pantaloons were too tight 
around his waist. 

"The straps are going to bother me in dancing," he 
said. 

" Dancing !" replied Emma. 

"Yes." 



PART FIRST 8l 

" But you have lost your head, you would be laughed 
at ; stay in your seat. Moreover, it is more appropri- 
ate for a doctor, ' ' she added. 

Charles was silent. He walked up and down, waiting 
until Emma should be dressed. 

He saw her from behind, in the mirror, between two 
lights. Her black eyes seemed blacker than ever. Her 
hair, lightly puffed out over the ears had a bluish reflec- 
tion in the lights ; a rose in her chignon trembled on a 
movable stem with drops of factitious water at the end of 
its leaves. Her dress was of pale saffron, relieved by three 
bouquets of roses-pompon, mingled with green leaves. 

Charles came and kissed her on the shoulder. 

"Leave me alone," she said, "you will ruffle my 
dress." 

They heard the preliminary flourish of a violin and 
the sounds of a horn. She went down the stairway, 
repressing a desire to run. 

The quadrilles had commenced. Many people were 
arriving. There was crowding. She placed herself 
near the door, on a long bench. 

When the contra-dance was ended, the floor was left 
open for the groups of men standing about and talking 
and for the servants in livery who brought great trays. 
Along the line of seated women the painted fans were 
waving backward and forward, the bouquets half con- 
cealed the smiles on the faces, and the smelling-bottles 
with golden stoppers turned in the half opened hands, 



82 MADAME BOVARY 

the white gloves of which revealed the shape of the 
nails and compressed the flesh of the wrists. The trim- 
mings of laces, the diamond brooches and medallion 
bracelets shivered on the corsages, scintillated on the 
breasts, rustled on the bare arms. The hair was worn 
well plastered down on the foreheads and twisted at the 
nape of the neck and carried in crowns, in clusters or in 
branches, myosotis, jessamine, pomegranate flowers, ears 
of wheat, or blue-bottle flowers. The mothers, peaceful 
in their places, with grim countenances, wore red turbans. 

Emma's heart was beating somewhat when, her cav- 
alier conducting her by the tips of her fingers, she came 
to take her place in the line and waited for the stroke 
of the fiddle-bow to commence. But her emotion soon 
disappeared; and balancing herself to the rhythm of 
the orchestra she glided forward with light movements 
of her neck. A smile mounted to her lips at certain 
delicate notes of the violin, which sometimes played 
alone, when the other instruments were silent ; the clear 
sound of the golden louis which were being dropped on 
the tables at the side could be plainly heard ; then all 
recommenced at once, the cornet a piston launched a 
sonorous outburst, the feet took up the measure, the 
skirts puffed out and brushed each other, hands were 
given and released; the same eyes, lowering before 
you, returned to fix themselves upon yours. 

Several men — some fifteen in all — from twenty-five to 
forty years of age, scattered among the dancers or 



PART FIRST 83 

conversing in the doorways, were distinguished from the 
crowd by a family air, whatever might be their differ- 
ence of age, of costume or of countenance. 

Their coats, better made, seemed to be of a finer 
cloth, and their hair, brought in curls toward the tem- 
ples, shining with finer pomade. They had the com- 
plexion of wealth, that pale complexion which heightens 
the whiteness of porcelain, the lustre of satin, the var- 
nish of handsome furniture, and which a discreet regi- 
men of exquisite nourishment maintains in its health. 
Their necks turned easily over low cravats; their 
whiskers fell on turned down collars ; they wiped their 
lips on handkerchiefs embroidered with a large mono- 
gram and which gave out a suave odor. Those who 
were commencing to grow old had a youthful air, while 
something serious and ripened might be seen on the 
countenances of the young ones. In their indifferent 
looks were floating the quietude of passion daily satis- 
fied; and through their gentle manners pierced that 
peculiar brutality which is communicated by the domi- 
nation of half-easy things, in which strength is exer- 
cised or where vanity is amused, the management of 
race horses and the society of lost women. 

At a distance of three steps from Emma, a cavalier in 
a blue coat was discussing Italy with a pale young 
woman wearing a set of pearls. They were extolling 
the size of the columns of St. Peter, Tivoli, Vesuvius, 
Castellamare, and the Cascine, the roses of Genoa, the 



84 MADAME BOVARY 

Coliseum in moonlight. Emma was listening with her 
other ear to a conversation full of words which she did 
not understand. There was a crowd around a very- 
young man who had beaten, the week before, Miss 
Arabella and Romulus, and won two thousand louis 
by leaping a ditch in England. One complained of 
his racers which were getting fat, another of errors of 
printing which had falsified the name of his horse. 

The air of the ball was becoming heavy ; the lamps 
were paling. There was a general movement toward the 
billiard room. A domestic mounted upon a chair and 
broke two panes of glass. At the sound of the breaking 
glass Madame Bovary turned her head and perceived 
in the garden, against the windows, the faces of peas- 
ants who were looking in. Then the recollection of 
the Bertaux returned to her. She saw again the farm, 
the miry pond, her father in his blouse under the apple- 
trees; and she saw herself again, as formerly, skim- 
ming with her finger the earthen vessels of milk in the 
dairy. But in the fulgurations of the present hour her 
past life, so sharply defined until now, disappeared 
completely ; and she doubted almost if she had lived it. 
She was there ; then, aside from the ball, there was no 
longer anything but shadow, spread over all the rest. 
At this moment she was eating an ice au marasguin, 
which she was holding in her hand in a silver-gilt shell, 
and she half closed her eyes, the spoon between her 
teeth. 



PART FIRST 85 

A lady near her let her fan fall to the floor. One of 
the dancers passed by. 

"Will you be so good, monsieur," said the lady, 
" as to pick up my fan which is behind this sofa ?" 

The gentleman stooped down and, as he made the 
movement of extending his arm, Emma saw the hand 
of the young lady throw into his hat some white object, 
folded triangularly. The gentleman picked up the fan, 
offered it to the lady respectfully; she thanked him 
with a movement of her head and began to inhale the 
fragrance of her bouquet. 

After the supper, at which there were many Spanish 
wines and wines of the Rhine, soup a la bisque and au 
lait d'alandes, puddings a la Trafalgar and all sorts of 
cold meats surrounded by jellies which trembled in the 
dishes, the carriages, one after another, commenced to 
roll away. By lifting up a corner of the muslin curtain, 
the light of their lanterns could be seen, gliding about 
in the darkness. The sofas began to empty; some 
players still remained ; the musicians wet with their 
tongues the ends of their fingers ; Charles was half 
asleep, leaning against a door. 

At three o'clock in the morning the cotillion 
commenced. Emma did not know how to waltz. 
Everybody was waltzing, Mademoiselle d'Andervil- 
liers herself and the marchioness ; there was no one 
remaining but the guests of the chateau, about a 
dozen persons. 



86 MADAME BOVARY 

However, one of the waltzers, who was addressed 
familiarly as the " Viscount," and whose waistcoat, cut 
very open, seemed to be molded upon his chest, came 
a second time to ask Madame Bovary, assuring her that 
he would guide her and that she would succeed very well. 

They commenced slowly, then went more rapidly. 
They revolved ; everything revolved around them, the 
lamps, the furniture, the ceiling and the floor, like a 
disk on a pivot. Passing by one of the doors, the lower 
part of Emma's dress whirled around his pantaloons; 
their legs passed between each other; he lowered his 
looks to her ; she lifted hers toward him ; a torpor took 
possession of her and she stopped. They set off again, 
and with a more rapid movement, the viscount, drawing 
her with him, disappeared with her in the farther end 
of the gallery where, breathless, she was on the point 
of falling, and for an instant leaned her head against 
his breast. And then, revolving still, but more slowly, 
he reconducted her to her place ; she threw herself 
back against the wall and put her hand before her eyes. 

When she opened them again, a lady seated on a 
stool in the middle of the salon had before her three 
waltzers kneeling. She chose the viscount, and the 
violin recommenced. 

Everybody looked at them. They passed and re- 
turned again, she with her body motionless and her 
chin lowered, and he always in the same attitude, his 
figure inclined, his elbow rounded, his mouth slightly 



PART FIRST 87 

advanced. She knew how to waltz, that lady ! They 
continued a long time and fatigued all the others. 

There was conversation for a few minutes more and 
after the adieux, or, rather, the good-mornings, the 
guests of the chateau retired to rest. 

Charles dragged himself up by the rail of the stair- 
case, his knees were sticking into his body. He had 
passed five successive hours standing around the tables, 
looking at the whist players without understanding any- 
thing about it. Therefore he emitted a great sigh of 
satisfaction when he had taken off his boots. 

Emma put a shawl over her shoulders, opened a 
window and leaned on the sill. 

The night was dark. Some drops of rain were fall- 
ing. She inhaled the moist air which refreshed her 
eyelids. The music of the ball buzzed in her ears, and 
she made efforts to keep herself awake so that she might 
prolong the illusion of this luxurious life which she 
would so soon have to abandon. 

The gray dawn appeared. She looked at the win- 
dows of the chateau for a long time, endeavoring to 
divine which were the chambers of each of those 
persons whom she had noticed the evening before. 
She wished to know their existences, to penetrate them, 
to confound herself with them. 

But she was shivering with cold. She undressed, and 
sought refuge in the bed coverings, against Charles who 
was asleep. 



88 MADAME BOVARY 

There were very few guests at dejeuner. The repast 
lasted some ten minutes ; no liquor was served, which 
surprised the doctor. Then Mademoiselle d'Ander- 
villiers gathered up the fragments of cake in a basket to 
take them to the swans on the lake ; and everyone 
went to walk in the greenhouse, in which curious 
plants, bristling with hairs, were arranged in pyramids 
under hanging vases, which, like too overflowing nests 
of serpents, spilled over their edges long interlaced 
vines. The orangery, which was at the end, led under 
cover to the servants' hall of the chateau. The mar- 
quis, to entertain the young wife, took her to see the 
stables. Above the racks, which were in the form of 
wide baskets, porcelain tablets bore in black letters the 
name of each horse. Each animal pranced in his stall 
when they passed by it, making a clicking noise with 
the tongue. The flooring of the saddle room was 
polished like the parquet of a salon. The carriage 
harness was arranged in the middle, on two revolving 
columns, and the bits, the whips, the stirrups, the curbs 
were arranged in rows along the wall. 

Charles, however, requested a servant to harness his 
boc. It was brought up before the steps and all the 
baggage being arranged on it, the Bovary couple took 
their leave of the marquis and the marchioness and set 
out on their return to Tostes. 

Emma, quite silent, watched the revolution of the 
wheels. Charles, on the extreme edge of the seat, 



PART FIRST 89 

drove with his two arms extended, and the little horse 
ambled along in his shafts, which were too wide for 
him ; the loose reins flapped on his croup, whitening 
it with foam, and the box tied behind the boc struck 
vigorously against the back with blows regularly timed. 

They were on the heights of Thibourville, when 
before them suddenly two horsemen passed laughing, 
smoking cigars. Emma thought she recognized the 
viscount ; she turned and perceived on the horizon 
only the movement of the heads rising and falling, 
following the unequal motion of the trot or the gallop. 

A quarter of a league farther on, it was necessary to 
stop to mend with a cord the breeching-strap which 
was broken. 

Charles, giving a final glance at the harness, saw 
something on the ground between the legs of his horse, 
and he picked up a cigar-case, all embroidered in 
green silk and blazoned in the middle like the door of 
a carriage. 

"There are even two cigars in it," he said; "they 
will do for this evening, after dinner." 

"You smoke then?" she asked. 

"Sometimes, when the occasion offers itself." 

He put his find in his pocket and whipped up his nag. 

When they arrived home, the dinner was not ready. 
Madame was vexed. Nastasie replied insolently. 

" You may leave !" said Emma. " This is not to be 
put up with, I will send you out of the house." 



90 MADAME BOVARY 

There was, for dinner, soup with onions, a morsel of 
veal a V oseille. Charles, seated before Emma, said, 
in rubbing his hands together with a comfortable air : 

"This is pleasure, to find yourself at home again." 

They could hear Nastasie weeping. He had an 
affection for this poor girl. She had kept him com- 
pany during very many evenings, during the idleness 
of his widowhood. She had been his first patient, his 
earliest acquaintance in the country. 

"Are you really sending her away?" he said finally. 

"Yes. Who prevents me?" she replied. 

Then they warmed themselves in the kitchen, whilst 
their chamber was being made ready. Charles com- 
menced to smoke. As he smoked he pushed out his 
lips, spitting at every minute, drawing back at each 
puff. 

" You will make yourself sick, " she said disdainfully. 

He laid down his cigar and hastened to the pump to 
drink a glass of cold water. Emma, seizing the cigar- 
case, threw it quickly into the bottom of the wardrobe. 

On the morrow, the day was very long ! She walked 
up and down in her little garden, passing and repassing 
on the same paths, stopping before the flower beds, 
before the espalier, before the little cure in plaster, 
looking stupidly at all these objects of former times 
which she knew so well. How far away the ball already 
seemed to be ! Who then had separated by such a dis- 
tance the morning of the day before yesterday and the 



PART FIRST 91 

evening of to-day ! Her journey to the Vaubyessard 
had made a breach in her life, after the manner of those 
great crevasses which a storm, in one night only, some- 
times hollows in the mountains. She resigned herself, 
however ; she shut up piously in the commode her 
beautiful toilet and even her satin shoes, the soles of 
which had been yellowed by the slippery wax of the 
floors. Her heart was like them. By the contact with 
wealth, there had been placed upon it something which 
would not be effaced. 

This became then an occupation for Emma, the 
recollection of this ball. Every Thursday morning she 
said to herself on awakening: "Ah, it was a week ago 

it was two weeks ago it was three weeks 

ago, I was there." And, little by little, the counte- 
nances became confused in her memory ; she forgot the 
air of the contra-dances, she no longer saw so clearly 
the liveries and the apartments ; some details departed, 
but the regret remained to her. 



IX 



Often, when Charles had gone out, she went to take 
out of the wardrobe between the folds of linen where 
she had left it, the cigar-case in green silk. 



92 MADAME BOVARY 

She looked at it, opened it, and she even smelled the 
odor of its lining, a mingling of vervain and tobacco. 

To whom had it belonged ? to the viscount. It 

had been, perhaps, a gift from his mistress? It had 
been embroidered on some embroidery frame of violet 
ebony wood, a delicate piece of furniture concealed 
from the eyes of all, which had furnished occupation for 
many hours, and over which had drooped the soft curls 
of the thoughtful workwoman. A breath of love had 
passed between the meshes of the canvas ; each stroke 
of the needle had fixed there a hope or a memory ; and 
all these threads of interlaced silk were only the con- 
tinuation of the same silent passion. And then, the 
viscount, one morning, had carried it off with him. 
What had they spoken of while it lay on the stately 
chimney-piece, between the vases of flowers and the 
Pompadour clock? She was at Tostes. But he, — he 
was now in Paris ; over there. What was this Paris ? 
What an immeasurable name ! She repeated it to her- 
self half aloud, to please herself; it resounded in her 
ears like the great bell of a cathedral ; it flamed before 
her eyes, even on the labels on her pots of pomade. 

At night when the sellers of sea-fish in their carts 
passed under her windows, singing "La Marjolaine" 
she awakened ; and, listening to the sound of the iron 
tires to the wheels which, as they left the neighborhood, 
died away on the earth, — "They will be there to-mor- 
row," she said to herself. And she followed them in 



PART FIRST 93 

her thoughts, mounting and descending the hills, trav- 
ersing the villages, filing along the high-road by the 
light of the stars. But, at the end of an indeterminable 
distance, she found always a confused place where her 
vision disappeared. 

She bought a map of Paris, and, with the end of her 
finger, she traced out on the plan long wanderings 
through the capital. She ascended the Boulevards, 
stopping at each corner, between the lines of the 
streets, before the white squares which represented the 
houses. Finally, when her eyes were fatigued, she 
closed her lids, and she saw in the shadows the gas- 
burners flickering in the wind, with the steps of the 
carriages, which drew up with a great dash before the 
peristyle of the theatres. 

She subscribed to "La Corbeille" a ladies' journal, 
and to the " Sylphe des Salons." She devoured, with- 
out skipping anything, all the accounts of the first 
nights at the theatres, of the races, and of soirees, inter- 
esting herself in the debut of a singer, or the opening 
of a new store. She knew the new fashions, the 
addresses of the good tailors, the days for the Bois or 
for the Opera. She studied in Eugene Sue the descrip- 
tions of furnishings ; she read Balzac and George Sand, 
seeking in them imaginary gratifications for her per- 
sonal covetousness. She even brought her book to the 
table, and she turned the leaves while Charles ate 
and talked to her. The remembrance of the viscount 



94 MADAME BOVARY 

constantly returned in her reading. She established 
resemblances between him and the fictitious characters. 
But the circle of which he was the centre little by little 
enlarged around him and that aureole which he had 
formerly, spreading from his figure, displayed itself 
farther away, illuminating other dreams. 

Paris, more vague than the ocean, mirrored itself in 
Emma's eyes in a rosy atmosphere. The multitudinous 
life which was in activity in that tumult, was, however, 
there divided by partitions, classified in distinct pic- 
tures. Emma perceived only two or three of them, 
which concealed from her all the others and repre- 
sented, in themselves alone, humanity complete. The 
world of the ambassadors walked over shining floors, in 
salons paneled with mirrors, around oval tables covered 
with velvet cloth, with gold fringe. There were there 
dresses with trains, great mysteries, anguishes concealed 
under smiles. Then came the society of the duchesses, 
— there all were pale; every one rose at four o'clock; 
the women, poor angels ! wore at the bottom of their 
skirts Brussels lace, and the men, their misunderstood 
abilities concealed under frivolous appearances, rode 
their horses to death for pleasure parties, passed the 
summer at Baden-Baden, and about their fortieth year 
married heiresses. In the cabinets of the restaurants 
there were suppers after midnight, the medley crowd of 
men of letters, of actresses, laughed in the light of the 
candles. They were, all those people, prodigal as 



PART FIRST 95 

kings, full of ideal ambitions and of fantastic deliriums. 
It was an existence above all others, between heaven 
and earth, among the storms, something sublime. As 
to the rest of the world, it was lost, without any exact 
position, and as though it did not exist. The nearer 
the objects of her surrounding were to her, the more 
her thoughts turned away from them. Everything of 
that which closed her in, wearisome country, idiotic 
petty bourgeois, mediocrity of existence, seemed to her 
an exception in the world, a peculiar chance in which 
she had happened to be caught, whilst all beyond 
extended to an illimitable distance the immense country 
of felicity and of passion. She confounded in her desires 
the sensualities of luxury with the joys of the heart, the 
elegance of daily habits and the delicacies of sentiment. 
Did not love require, like certain Indian plants, pre- 
pared soil, a particular temperature? Sighs in the 
moonlight, long embraces, tears flowing over hands 
which are abandoned, all the fevers of the flesh and the 
languors of tenderness were not to be separated then 
from the balconies of the grand chateaux in which there 
is an abundance of leisure, from a boudoir with silk 
shades, with a very thick carpet, with blooming jardin- 
ieres, a bed mounted upon a platform, nor from the 
glittering of precious stones and from the shoulder- 
knots of the livery. 

The postboy who came each morning to take care of 
the mare traversed the corridor with his heavy sabots ; 



96 MADAME BOVARY 

his blouse had holes in it ; his feet were naked in his 
big shoes. That was the groom in knee-breeches with 
whom she was obliged to be content ! When his work 
was finished he did not return during the day, for 
Charles, when he came in, stabled his horse himself, 
unsaddled her, and put on the halter, whilst the female 
servant brought an armful of straw and threw it, as best 
she could, in the manger. 

To replace Nastasie — who had finally departed from 
Tostes shedding rivers of tears — Emma took in her 
service a young girl of fourteen, an orphan and with a 
gentle expression. She forbade her the use of cotton 
caps, taught her that it was necessary to address her 
superiors in the third person, to bring a glass of water 
on a plate, to knock at doors before entering, and to 
iron, to starch, to dress her, and wished to make of her 
her femme de chambre. The new servant obeyed with- 
out murmuring, so as not to be sent away; and as 
madame habitually left the key in the buffet, Felicite, 
each evening, took a small provision of sugar, which she 
ate all alone in her bed, after having said her prayers. 

Sometimes in the afternoons she went to talk with 
the postilion opposite. Madame remained upstairs, in 
her apartment. 

She wore a robe de chambre quite open, which per- 
mitted to be seen, between the revers a chale du cor- 
sage, a plaited chemisette with three gold studs. Her 
girdle was a twisted cord with a great tassel, and her 



PART FIRST 97 

little slippers of garnet color had a rosette of wide rib- 
bons which spread out over the instep. She had bought 
herself a blotting-case, some note paper, a pen-holder 
and envelopes, although she had no one to whom to 
write ; she dusted her etagere, looked at herself in the 
glass, took a book, then, dreaming between the lines, 
allowed it to fall on her knees. She had a desire to 
make journeys, or to return and live in her convent. 
She wished at once to die and to live in Paris. 

Charles, through the snow and the rain, traversed 
the country by the side roads. He ate omelets on the 
farm table, explored damp beds with his arm, received 
in his face the warm jet of the bleedings, listened to 
the death rattles, examined basins, turned over much 
soiled linen ; but he found every evening a fire burning, 
the table served, soft furnishings and a wife in a fine 
toilet, charming and smelling fresh, so that it could not 
be told whence came this odor, or if it were not her 
skin which perfumed her chemise. 

She charmed him by a number of delicacies ; some- 
times it was a new way of making the fancy paper 
sockets for the candlesticks, a flounce which she changed 
on her dress, or the extraordinary name of some very 
simple dish and in which the cook had not succeeded, 
but of which Charles devoured the whole with pleas- 
ure. She saw, at Rouen, ladies who carried on their 
watch a bunch of seals ; she bought some seals. She 
wished to have on her chimney-piece two large vases of 



98 MADAME BOVARY 

blue glass, and some time afterwards an ivory work-box 
with a silver-gilt thimble. The less Charles compre- 
hended these elegancies, the more he submitted to their 
seduction. They added something to the pleasure of 
his senses, and to the pleasantness of his hearth. It was 
like a gold dust which was sprinkled all along the little 
pathway of his life. 

He was very well, he looked well ; his reputation was 
completely established. The country people were fond 
of him because he was not proud. He caressed the 
children, never went into the tavern, and moreover 
inspired confidence by his morality. He succeeded 
particularly well with catarrhs and pulmonary affec- 
tions. Fearing very much to kill his patients, Charles, 
in fact, ordered only soothing potions, from time to 
time an emetic, a footbath or leeches. It was not that 
he was afraid of surgery ; he would bleed for you peo- 
ple freely like horses, and he had for the abstraction 
of teeth a grip of hell. 

Finally, to keep himself posted, he subscribed to "La 
Ruche Medicate," a new journal of which he had 
received a prospectus. He read in it a little after his 
dinner ; but the warmth of the apartment joined to the 
effects of digestion, caused him to go to sleep at the 
end of five minutes ; and he sat there, his chin on his 
two hands and his hair dishevelled like a horse's mane, 
at the foot of the lamp. Emma looked at him, shrug- 
ging her shoulders. Why had she not at least for her 



PART FIRST 99 

husband one of those men of taciturn ardor who spend 
their nights in study, and who finally, when sixty years 
old, when the age of rheumatism arrives, wear upon 
their black coats, badly made, a cluster of orders. She 
wished that his name of Bovary, which was her own, 
might be illustrious, to see it displayed in all the book 
stores, repeated in the journals, known throughout 
France. But Charles had no ambition ! A physician 
of Yvetot, with whom he had lately been in consul- 
tation, had humiliated him somewhat, at the very 
bedside of his patient, before the assembled relatives. 
When Charles had related to her this anecdote in the 
evening, Emma was violently excited against the fellow 
practitioner. Charles was much affected. He kissed 
her on the forehead, shedding a tear. But she was 
exasperated with shame, she had a desire to beat him, 
she went out in the corridor and opened a window to 
breathe the fresh air in order to calm herself. "What 
a poor specimen of a man ! what a poor specimen of a 
man !" she said very low to herself, biting her lips. 

She felt herself, moreover, more irritated against 
him. He took on, in aging, coarser manners; he cut 
up, at dessert, the corks of the empty bottles ; after 
eating he had a habit of passing his tongue over his 
teeth; in swallowing his soup, he made a clucking 
noise at each mouthful ; and as he commenced to get 
stouter his eyes, already small, seemed to be pushed up 
towards his temples by the swelling of his cheeks. 



100 MADAME BOVARY 

Sometimes, Emma pushed inside his waistcoat the 
red edges of his suspenders, readjusted his cravat, or 
threw aside soiled gloves which he was disposed to 
keep on wearing ; and this was not, as he thought, for 
his sake, but for her own, through an expansion of 
egoism, in nervous agitation. Sometimes also, she 
spoke to him of things which she had read, as of a pas- 
sage from a romance, from a new play or from an 
anecdote of the great world, which had been related in 
the periodical ; for, after all, Charles was some one, an 
ear always open, an approval always ready. She made 
very many confidences to her greyhound ! She would 
have made them to the logs in the chimney-place and 
to the pendulum of the clock. 

In the bottom of her soul, however, she was waiting 
for an event. Like shipwrecked sailors, she searched 
the solitude of her life with despairing eyes, endeavor- 
ing to perceive in the distance some white sail amid 
the mists on the horizon. She did not know at all 
what would be this chance, the wind which would bring 
it to her, towards what shore it would conduct her, 
whether it would be a fishing-boat or a three-decker, 
freighted with anguish or full of felicities up to the 
port-holes. But each morning, at her awakening, she 
hoped it for that day, and she listened to all the noises, 
rising up suddenly, was surprised that it did not come, 
then at sunset, more discouraged than ever, desired 
that it might be for the next day. 



PART FIRST IOI 

The spring came again. She had attacks of suffo- 
cation at the first heats, when the pear-trees were in 
blossom. 

From the commencement of July, she counted upon 
her fingers the number of weeks that remained before 
the month of October, thinking that the Marquis 
d'Andervilliers would, perhaps, give another ball at 
the Vaubyessard. But the whole of September passed 
away without either letter or visit. 

After the weariness of this disappointment, her heart 
remained empty as before and then the series of the 
same days recommenced. 

They were going, then, to follow each other in this 
manner, one after the other, all alike, innumerable, 
and bringing nothing ! The existences of others, how- 
ever flat they might be, offered at least the chance of 
an event. An adventure brought with it sometimes 
innumerable sudden changes of fortune and the whole 
scene shifted. But for her, nothing would ever hap- 
pen. God had so willed it ! The future was a long 
corridor, all black, and which had at the extreme end 
her door tightly closed. 

She gave up music. Why should she play? who 
would hear her? Since she could never play on an 
Erard piano, in a velvet dress with short sleeves, in a 
great concert, touching with her light fingers the ivory 
keys, feeling circulate around her like a breath of wind 
a murmur of ecstasy, it was not worth the trouble of 



102 MADAME BOVARY 

wearying herself by study. She left in their wardrobe 
her portfolios of design and the tapestry. Of what 
use! of what use! Sewing irritated her. "I have 
read everything," she said to herself, and she remained 
heating the tongs in the fire, or watching the rain fall. 

How melancholy she was on Sundays, when the ves- 
pers were rung ! She listened, in an attentive stupor, 
to the repetition, one by one, of the strokes of the 
cracked bell. Some cat on the roof, walking slowly, 
arched its back in the pale rays of the sun. The wind, 
on the high-road, lifted up little trails of dust. In the 
distance, sometimes, a dog howled ; and the bell, at 
regular intervals, continued its monotonous ringing, 
which lost itself in the distant country. 

However, they all came out of the church, the women 
in waxed sabots, the peasants in new blouses, the 
little children who leaped bare-headed before them, all 
were returning to their own homes. And until night- 
fall, five or six men, always the same, remained playing 
at bouchon before the great door of the inn. 

The winter was cold. The window panes, each 
morning, were covered with frost, and the pale day- 
light, which traversed them as through panes of rough 
glass, sometimes did not vary during the whole day. 
At four o'clock in the afternoon, it was necessary to 
light the lamp. 

On fine days she descended to the garden. The dew 
had left on the cabbages a silver lace with long fine 



PART FIRST 103 

threads which extended from one to another. The 
birds were no longer heard ; everything seemed to be 
asleep, the fruit-tree trained on the wall and covered 
with straw and the vine, like a great serpent ill, under 
the coping of the wall, where might be seen, by going 
nearer, the millipedes with their numerous feet. In the 
spruce-trees near the hedge, the cure in his three- 
cornered hat, who was reading his breviary, had lost 
his right foot, and even the plaster scaling off from the 
frost had left white scars on his figure. 

Then she went up to her room again, closed the 
door, spread the brands on the hearth and, sinking 
into the warmth of the fire, felt the weariness fall upon 
her still more heavily. She would have been willing to 
go down and talk to the servant, but a sense of shame 
restrained her. 

Every day, at the same hour, the schoolmaster, in a 
cap of black silk, opened the shutters of his house, and 
the rural policeman passed, wearing his sabre over his 
blouse. Evening and morning the post-horses, three 
by three, traversed the street to go and drink in the 
pond. From time to time the door of an inn could be 
heard ringing its bell; and when the wind blew, the 
little basins in copper of the hair-dresser, which served 
as a sign for his shop, creaked on their two rods. His 
shop had for decoration an old-fashioned engraving 
pasted against a square and the wax bust of a woman, 
whose hair was yellow. He also, the hair-dresser, he 



104 MADAME BOVARY 

complained of his lagging vocation, of his ruined 
future, and, dreaming of some shop in a great city, as 
at Rouen, for example, on the quays near to the theatre, 
he spent the entire day walking backward and forward 
between the mayor's house and the church, sombre and 
waiting for customers. Whenever Madame Bovary 
raised her eyes she saw him always there like a sentinel 
on his post, with his Greek cap over his ears and his 
woolen waistcoat. 

In the afternoon, sometimes, a man's head appeared 
behind the windows of the hall, a sunburnt head 
adorned with black whiskers, the man smiled slowly, a 
broad, sweet smile, which disclosed white teeth. Imme- 
diately a waltz commenced, and upon the organ, in a 
tiny salon, a number of dancers of the height of one's 
finger, women in pink turbans, Tyrolese men in jackets, 
monkeys in black coats, gentlemen in short trousers, 
revolved among the armchairs, the sofas, the consoles, 
repeating themselves in the little pieces of looking- 
glass which were united at their angles by slips of gilt 
paper. The man turned his crank handle, looking to 
the right and left, and up at the windows. From time 
to time, while discharging at the curbstone a long jet of 
brown saliva, he lifted with his knee his instrument, the 
hard strap of which tired his shoulder ; and sometimes 
sorrowful and slow, or joyous and hurried, the music of 
the box escaped droning through a curtain of pink 
taffeta under a grating of brass. They were the airs 



PART FIRST 105 

which were then played in the theatres, which were 
sung in the salons, which were danced to in the even- 
ing under brilliant lights, echoes of the world, which 
reached Emma's ears. Interminable sarabands unrolled 
themselves in her head, and, like a bayadere on the 
flowers of a carpet, her thoughts, keeping time with the 
notes, wavered from dream to dream and from sadness 
to sadness. When the man had received his alms in 
his cap, he pulled an old covering of blue woolen down 
over his organ, swung it on his back, and went away 
with a heavy step. She watched him depart. 

But it was above all at the hours of their meals that 
she could endure no more, in this little room on the 
ground-floor, with its smoky stove, creaking door, 
oozing walls, and damp floor. All the weariness of 
existence seemed to be served on her plate, and with 
the steam of the boiled meat there mounted from the 
depths of her soul, as it were, other clouds of nausea. 
Charles sat a long while over his food ; she nibbled at 
some nuts or, leaning on her elbow, amused herself 
with the point of her knife, making strokes on the oil- 
cloth cover. 

Moreover, she now let everything go to pieces in her 
household ; and Madame Bovary the elder, when she 
came to pass a part of the Lenten season at Tostes, was 
much astonished at this change. She, in fact, formerly 
so careful and so delicate, remained at present entire 
days without dressing herself, wore stockings of gray 



106 MADAME BOVARY 

cotton, and used only candle-light. She constantly 
repeated that it was necessary to economize since they 
were not rich, adding that she was very well satisfied, 
very happy, that Tostes pleased her greatly and other 
novel discourses which closed her mother-in-law's 
mouth. For the rest, Emma seemed no more disposed 
to follow her advice ; on one occasion even, Madame 
Bovary having thought it well to assert that masters 
should look after the religion of their domestics, she 
replied to her with so much anger in her eyes, and with 
so cold a smile, that the good woman did not touch 
upon this subject any more. 

She became difficult to please, capricious. She 
ordered dishes for herself and then did not touch them, 
one day drank nothing but pure milk, and the next day, 
cups of tea by the dozen. Sometimes she would obsti- 
nately refuse to go out, then she suffocated, opened all 
the windows, dressed herself in thin gowns. When she 
had been very harsh with her servant, she made her a 
present, or sent her out to see the neighbors, in the 
same way that she sometimes threw to the poor all the 
silver pieces in her purse, — although she was scarcely 
generous by nature, nor even easily affected by the dis- 
tress of others, like the greater number of those born 
from country people, who always preserve on their 
souls something of the callosity of the paternal hand. 

Toward the end of February, the Pere Rouault, in 
memory of his cure, brought himself to his son-in-law 



PART FIRST 107 

a superb turkey hen, and he remained three days at 
Tostes. Charles being with his patients, Emma kept 
him company. He smoked in the chamber, spat on 
the andirons, talked of agriculture, calves, cows, 
chickens, and Municipal Council, so much so, that she 
closed the door after him when he departed, with a 
feeling of satisfaction that surprised her. Moreover, 
she no longer concealed her contempt for anything 
or for anybody; and she sometimes openly expressed 
very singular opinions, blaming that which was generally 
approved, and approving perverse or immoral things, 
which made her husband open his eyes. 

Was this misery going to endure forever ? Could it 
be that she would never get out of it ? And yet she 
was worth all those who lived happily. She had seen 
duchesses at the Vaubyessard who had heavier figures 
and more common manners than she ; and she exe- 
crated the injustice of God; she leaned her head 
against the walls to weep ; she envied the tumultuous 
existences, the masked knights, the insolent pleasures 
with all the distractions which she did not know and 
which they must bestow. 

She grew pale and had palpitation of the heart. 
Charles administered valerian to her and camphor 
baths. Everything that was tried seemed to irritate her 
still more. 

On certain days, she talked with a feverish abund- 
ance ; these exaltations were succeeded suddenly by 



108 MADAA\E BOVARY 

torpors in which she remained without speaking, with- 
out moving. To reanimate her then, it was necessary 
to pour upon her arm a flask of eau-de-Cologne. 

As she complained continually of Tostes, Charles 
imagined that the cause of her malady might be some 
local influence, and, adopting this idea, he thought 
seriously of establishing himself elsewhere. 

From this time she drank vinegar to make herself 
look thin, and practised a little dry cough and lost her 
appetite completely. 

It cost Charles a good deal to abandon Tostes after 
living there four years, and at the moment when he was 
commencing to be well settled there. If it should be 
necessary, however ! He took her to Rouen to see his 
former master. It was a nervous malady ! A change 
of air would be necessary. 

After having investigated in different directions, 
Charles learned that there was in the arrondissement 
of Neufchatel a strong borough named Yonville- 
l'Abbaye, the physician of which, a Polish refugee, 
had decamped the preceding week. Then he wrote 
to the apothecary of the neighborhood to know what 
was the number of the inhabitants, the distance to 
the nearest neighboring physician, the amount of the 
annual income earned by his predecessor, etc.; and 
the replies having been satisfactory, he concluded to 
move toward the spring, if Emma's health did not 
improve. 



PART FIRST 109 

One day when, in view of her departure, she was 
arranging things in a drawer, she pricked her finger 
with something. It was an iron wire of her marriage 
bouquet. The orange buds were yellow with dust and 
the satin ribbons, with borders of silver, were raveling 
out on the edges. She threw it into the fire. It flamed 
up more quickly than dry straw, then it was like a little 
red leafage on the cinders, and which crumbled away 
slowly. She watched it burn. The little imitation 
berries burst open, the iron wire twisted, the silver lace 
melted ; and the paper petals, shriveling up, agitated 
themselves for awhile along the metal like black butter- 
flies and finally vanished up the chimney. 

When they departed from Tostes, in the month of 
March, Madame Bo vary was enceinte. 



PART SECOND 



Yonville-l'Abbaye — which derived its name from an 
ancient abbey of the order of Capuchins, not even the 
ruins of which now exist — is a borough eight leagues 
from Rouen, between the Abbeville road and that of 
Beauvais, at the bottom of a valley which is watered 
by the Rieule, a little river which flows into the Andelle 
after having turned three mills toward its mouth, and 
where there are some trout, which the youth amuse 
themselves by fishing for on Sundays with a line. 

The high-road is left at Boissiere, and the journey is 
continued on a level as far as the top of the Leux hill, 
from which point the valley may be seen. The river 
which traverses it makes of it, as it were, two regions 
with distinct characteristics. All that is on the 
left is in pasture, all that is on the right is culti- 
vated. The meadow stretches along at foot of a 

circular grouping of low hills to communicate behind 

in 



112 MADAME BOVARY 

with the pasture lands of the country of Bray, whilst 
toward the east, the plain, mounting gently, widens out 
and extends its golden grain fields as far as the eye can 
see. The stream which runs along the edge of the 
grass land separates by a sinuous white parting the 
color of the meadows and that of the ploughed land, 
and the country thus bears a resemblance to an 
immense cloak spread out, which has a collar of green 
velvet bordered with silver lace. 

On arriving, the traveler has before him, on the 
extremity of the horizon, the oaks of the forest of 
Argueil, with the slopes of the Saint- Jean hill streaked 
from top to bottom by long reddish irregular tracks ; 
these are the traces left by the rains ; and these brick- 
ish tones, striking in thin lines across the gray color of 
the mountain, are occasioned by the numerous ferru- 
ginous springs which flow away into the neighboring 
country. 

Here we are on the confines of Normandy, of 
Picardy, and of the Ile-de-France, a bastard country, 
where the language is without accentuation, as the land- 
scape is without character. It is here that are made 
the worst Neufchatel cheeses of the whole arrondisse- 
ment, and, on the other hand, the agriculture is costly 
because of the quantity of fertilizers required for this 
friable soil, sandy and full of stones. 

Up to 1835 there was no practicable road to Yon- 
ville, but about this period a great cross-country road 



PART SECOND 113 

was opened, which unites the Abbeville road to that of 
Amiens and is made use of sometimes by the carriers 
going from Rouen to Flanders. However, Yonville- 
l'Abbaye has remained stationary notwithstanding its 
new outlets. Instead of improving the agriculture, 
there is an obstinate clinging to the pasture lands, 
depreciated as they are ; and the idle borough, turning 
away from the plain, has naturally continued to grow 
on the side of the river. It may be perceived from 
afar, stretched all along the banks, like a cowherd who 
takes his siesta on the edge of the stream. 

At the bottom of the hill, after you pass the bridge, 
a high-road commences, planted with young aspen- 
trees, which conducts you in a straight line to the first 
houses of the country. They are enclosed with hedges, 
in the middle of courtyards full of scattered build- 
ings, wine-presses, cart-houses and distilleries of brandy 
scattered among thick, bushy trees which carry ladders, 
poles and sickles hung in their branches. The thatched 
roofs, like fur caps pulled down over the eyes, descend 
almost to a third of the length of the low windows, 
the thick, bulging panes of which have each a knob in 
the middle, like the bottom of a bottle. On the plas- 
tered walls, traversed diagonally by black timbers, a 
straggling pear-tree sometimes clings, and the doors on 
the ground floor are defended by a little wicket which 
turns, to prevent the entrance of the young chickens 
which come to pick up on the threshold the crumbs of 



114 MADAME BOVARY 

brown bread soaked in cider. Gradually the court- 
yards become more narrow, the houses grow closer 
together, the hedges disappear ; a bunch of ferns may 
be seen under a window at the end of a broom-handle ; 
then there is a blacksmith shop, and near it a wheel- 
wright with two or three new carts outside, which 
encroach upon the road. Then, through a clear space, 
may be seen a white house beyond a circular bit of turf 
ornamented by a Cupid with his finger on his mouth ; 
two vases in cast iron are at each end of the slips, 
escutcheons glitter on the door ; it is the house of the 
notary, and the finest in the country. 

The church is on the other side of the street, twenty 
paces farther on, at the entrance to the village. The 
little cemetery which surrounds it, enclosed by a wall 
breast-high, is so filled with tombs that the old stones 
placed horizontally on the ground make a continuous 
pavement in which the grass designs the regular green 
outlines of the squares. The church was entirely 
rebuilt in the last year of the reign of Charles X. The 
vaulted ceiling, in wood, is commencing to decay in 
the upper part and shows in various places black spots 
in its blue color. Above the entrance, where the 
organs should be, is a gallery for the men with a wind- 
ing stairway which resounds under the sabots. 

The daylight coming through plain windows lights 
obliquely the benches, arranged from wall to wall, 
which are ornamented here and there by some straw 



PART SECOND 115 

matting nailed on, having underneath it these words in 
big letters: "The bench of Monsieur Such a One." 
Farther on, where the building narrows, the confessional 
has as a counterpart the statuette of the Virgin, clothed 
in a satin dress, having on her head a tulle veil strewn 
with silver stars, and with her cheeks purpled like an 
idol of the Sandwich Islands ; finally, a copy of the 
Sainte Famille, envoi du Ministre de F ' Interieur, domi- 
nating the high altar between four chandeliers, termi- 
nates the view. The choir stalls in fir wood have 
remained unpainted. 

The market, that is to say a tile roof supported by 
some twenty posts, occupies of itself about half of the 
grand square of Yonville. The town-hall, constructed 
after the designs of an architect of Paris, is a sort of 
Greek temple which forms the angle, by the side of 
the house of the apothecary. It has on the ground 
floor three Ionic columns, and on the first story a gal- 
lery with a circular arch, whilst the tympanum which 
terminates it at the top is decorated with the Gallic 
cock, supported by one foot on the Charter and holding 
in the other the scales of Justice. 

But that which most attracts the eye is, opposite to 
the inn of the Lion d' Or, the pharmaceutical estab- 
lishment of Monsieur Homais : especially in the even- 
ing when his lamp is illumined and when the red and 
green phials which embellish the front of his shop cast 
afar along the ground their two colored rays; then 



Il6 MADAME BOVARY 

between them, as in the midst of Bengal fires, may be 
seen the shadow of the apothecary, leaning his elbows 
on his desk. His building from top to bottom is 
placarded with notices written in English, in round 
hand, and printed, — " Eaux de Vichy, de Seltz, and de 
Bareges, depuratory fruit syrups, medicine Raspail, 
racahout of the Arabs, pastils Darcet, paste Regnault, 
bandages, baths, chocolats de sante, etc." And the 
sign which took up the whole width of the shop bore 
in letters of gold, Homais, pharmacien. Then, at the 
back of the shop, behind the grand scales fastened to 
the counter, the word Laboratoire displayed itself 
above a glass door which, in the middle of its height, 
repeated once more Homais, in letters of gold on a 
black ground. 

There is nothing more to see in Yonville. The 
street — the only one — of the length of a gunshot and 
bordered by a few shops, stopped short at the turning 
of the road. If it is left on the right and the bottom 
of the hill Saint-Jean followed, the cemetery is soon 
reached. 

At the time of the cholera, to increase it, it was 
found necessary to throw down a section of wall and 
buy three acres of land adjoining; but all this new 
portion is almost uninhabited, the graves as formerly 
continuing to crowd towards the gate. The guardian, 
who is at once grave-digger and beadle of the church — 
drawing thus from the dead of the parish a double 



PART SECOND 117 

profit — has profited by this empty space to sow in it 
potatoes. From year to year, however, his little field 
contracts, and when an epidemic arrives, he does not 
know whether he should rejoice at the deaths or be 
afflicted by the burials. 

" You nourish yourself with the dead, Lestiboudois !" 
said Monsieur le Cure to him finally one day. 

This sombre speech made him reflect ; it caused him 
to stop for some little time ; but to-day he still con- 
tinues the culture of his tubercles, and even asserts 
with assurance that they grow naturally. 

Since the events which have just been narrated, 
nothing, in fact, has been changed at Yonville. The 
tricolored flag in tin still continues to turn at the top 
of the church steeple ; the shop of the merchant of 
novelties still shakes in the wind its two streamers of 
printed calico ; the foetus of the apothecary, like pack- 
ages of white amadon, decay more and more in their 
muddy alcohol, and over the great door of the inn the 
old golden lion, his color washed out by the rains, still 
shows to the passers-by his poodle's mane. 

The evening on which the Bovarys were to arrive at 
Yonville, Madame, the widow Lefrancois, the mistress 
of this inn, was so full of business that she was sweat- 
ing huge drops while stirring her saucepans. The next 
day was market day in the borough. It was necessary 
in advance to cut up the meats, to clean the chickens, 
to make the soup and the coffee. She had, moreover, 



Il8 MADAME BOVARY 

to prepare the repast for her boarders, that of the doc- 
tor, his wife, and their servant ; the billiard-room rang 
with shouts of laughter; three millers in the little 
apartment were clamoring to have their brandy brought 
them ; the wood flamed, the coal crackled, and on the 
long table of the kitchen, among the quarters of raw 
mutton, rose piles of plates which trembled at the 
shaking of the block on which the spinach was being 
chopped up. From the poultry-yard could be heard 
the cries of the chickens which the maidservant was 
pursuing in order to cut off their heads. 

A man in slippers of green leather, slightly marked 
with the small-pox, and wearing a velvet cap with a 
gold tassel, was warming his back before the fire. His 
countenance expressed nothing but satisfaction with 
himself, and he had the air of being as calm in life as 
the goldfinch in the willow cage hanging over his head, 
— this was the apothecary. 

"Artemise!" cried the mistress of the inn, "break 
up the fagots, fill the carafes, bring the brandy, hurry 
up ! If I only knew what dessert to offer to the society 
you are waiting for. Divine Goodness ! those drum- 
mers of furniture-movers are commencing their row 
again in the billiard-room ! And their cart is left 
standing under the front door. The Hirondelle is 
likely to run into it when it arrives ! Call Polyte to 

have it put in the shed ! Just to think that, since this 

morning, Monsieur Homais, they have perhaps played 









&gt;s 



"5! v£&gt; 



S? 



to 



."§2 



^ 5 



^ § 






S3 « 



- § "&amp; 



■&lt; 



S3 

1° 
Si 

.V 



"2 



Si 



&lt;s 



S3 



9 



S? 



&amp; 8 



b&lt; 



bfl 






PART SECOND 119 

fifteen games and drank eight pots of cider ! But they 

are going to destroy my billiard cloth," she continued, 
looking at them from a distance, her skimmer in her 
hand. 

"The damage will not be great," replied Monsieur 
Homais, "you will buy another." 

"Another billiard table !" exclaimed the widow. 

"Since this one is worn out, Madame Lefrancois; I 
repeat it to you, you wrong yourself! you do yourself 
great wrong ! And the amateurs, nowadays, demand 
narrow pockets and heavy cues. They no longer play 
on the ball ; everything is changed ! It is necessary to 
keep up with the times ! Look at Tellier, rather. ' ' 

The hostess turned red with vexation. The apothe- 
cary added : 

"His billiard table, it is needless to say, is smaller 
than yours ; and that they should conceive the idea, for 
example, of making up a patriotic pool for the Poles, 
or for the sufferers from the inundation of Lyons " 

" It is not beggars like those that we are afraid of!" 
interrupted the hostess, shrugging her great shoulders. 
" Come, come, Monsieur Homais, as long as the Lion 
d 1 Or lives, people will come to it. We have hay in 
our shoes too, we have ! One of these fine mornings 
you will see the Cafe francais shut up, and with a fine 
notice pasted on the shutters ! Change my bill- 
iard table," she continued, speaking to herself, "that 
which is so handy for me to lay out my washing upon, 



120 MADAME BOVARY 

and on which, in the hunting season, I have put as 

many as six travelers to bed ! But where is that 

lazy Hivert who does not come ?' ' 

"Are you waiting for him for your gentlemen's din- 
ner ?' ' asked the apothecary. 

"Waiting for him! And Monsieur Binet then! 
When it strikes six o'clock you will see him come in, 
for his equal does not exist on the earth for punctuality. 
He must always have his place in the little room. He 
would be killed sooner than dine elsewhere. How 
squeamish he is, and how hard to please about his 
cider. He is not like Monsieur Leon ; he, he gets here 
sometimes at seven o'clock, half-past seven even; he 
does not even look at what he is eating. What a fine 
young man ! Never one word louder than another. ' ' 

" That is because there is a good deal of difference, 
do you see, between someone who has had an education 
and an old Carabineer who is a collector." 

Six o'clock sounded, Binet entered. 

He wore a blue frock coat falling straight around his 
thin body ; and his leathern cap, with flaps tied by a 
cord on top of his head, revealed under the turned up 
peak, a bald forehead which the habit of wearing this 
cap had still further depressed. He wore a waistcoat 
of black cloth, a cravat of hair-cloth, gray trousers, 
and at all seasons of the year well polished boots which 
had two similar protuberances caused by the undue 
prominence of his great toes. 



PART SECOND 121 

Not a hair strayed over the line of his white collar, 
which, encircling his jaws, framed in as if it were the 
border of a flower-bed, his long dull countenance, of 
which the eyes were little and the nose arched. A 
good player in any game of cards, a good hunter, 
and writing a fine hand, he had in his own house a 
lathe with which he amused himself by turning nap- 
kin-rings, with which he encumbered his house with 
all the jealousy of an artist and the egotism of a 
bourgeois. 

He directed his steps towards the little room ; but it 
was necessary to get the three millers out ; and during 
all the time that it took to lay his table, Binet remained 
perfectly silent in his place near the stove, then he 
closed the door and took off his cap as usual. 

"It is not civilities that will wear out his tongue," 
said the apothecary, as soon as he was alone with the 
hostess. 

" He never talks any more than that," she replied; 
"three cloth travelers came here last week, very witty 
fellows, who, in the evening said so many funny things 
that I laughed till I cried ; well, he stood there like a 
shad, without saying a word." 

"Yes," said the apothecary, "no imagination, no 
wit, nothing of that which constitutes the man of 
society." 

"It is said, however, that he has good capacities," 
objected the hostess. 



122 MADAME BOVARY 

"Capacities!" replied Monsieur Homais, "he! 
capacities ! in his game, that is possible," he added in 
a calmer tone. And he went on : " Ah ! that a dealer 
who has important relations, that a jurisconsult, a 
physician, an apothecary, should be so much absorbed 
that they become odd and even crabbed, that I can 
understand. You read of such incidents in the his- 
tories. But at least they are thinking of something. 
I, for example, how many times does it happen to me 
to look for my pen on my desk in order to write a label 
and to discover finally that I had placed it behind my 
ear!" 

Meanwhile, Madame Lefrancois went to the door 
to see if the Hirondelle was coming. Suddenly she 
started. A man dressed in black came unexpectedly 
into the kitchen. It could be seen by the last gleams 
of twilight that he had a rubicund visage and an 
athletic figure. 

" What will you be served with, Monsieur le Cure?" 
asked the mistress of the inn, reaching on the chimney- 
piece one of the brass candlesticks which, with their 
candles, were there arranged in a colonnade. "Will 
you take something? a finger of cassis — black currant 
ratafia — a glass of wine ? ' ' 

The ecclesiastic declined very civilly. He had come 
to look for his umbrella which he had forgotten the 
other day at the convent of Ernemont ; and after hav- 
ing requested Madame Lefrancois to send it to his 



PART SECOND 123 

house in the evening, he went out on his way to the 
church from which the Angelus was sounding. 

When the apothecary no longer heard the sound of 
his footsteps on the Place outside, he began to criticise 
his conduct very strongly. This refusal to accept 
refreshment seemed to him an hypocrisy of the most 
odious kind ; the priests all tippled when they were not 
seen, and endeavored to bring back the old tithing 
times. 

The hostess took up the defense of her cur£. 

''Moreover, he could break four such men as you 
across his knee. Last year he helped our people to 
bring in the straw ; he carried as many as six sheaves at 
once, he is so strong !" 

"Bravo !" said the apothecary. " Send your daugh- 
ters then to confess to fine fellows with such a tempera- 
ment as that. I, if I were the governor, I would have 
the priests bled once a month. Yes, Madame Lefran- 
cois, every month a copious phlebotomy in the interests 
of the police and of good manners!" 

" Will you keep silent, Monsieur Homais ! you are an 
impious man ! you have no religion !" 

The apothecary replied : 

" I have a religion, my religion, and I have even 
more of a one than they have with all their mummeries 
and all their juggleries. I adore God, on the contrary ! 
I believe in the Supreme Being, in a Creator, whoever 
he may be, it makes but little difference to me who has 



124 MADAME BOVARY 

placed us here below to fulfil our duties as citizens and 
fathers of families ; but I have no need of going into a 
church to kiss silver plates and to fatten from my 
pocket a crowd of buffoons who are better nourished 
than we are. For, he can be as well honored in a 
wood, in a field, or even in contemplating the ethereal 
vault, as did the ancients. My God, for me, is the 
God of Socrates, of Franklin, of Voltaire and of 
Beranger ! I am for the Profession of Faith of the 
Savoyard Vicar, and the immortal principles of '89 ! 
Thus, I do not believe in a goodman of a Bon Dieu 
who walks about his garden with a cane in his hand, 
lodges his friends in the bellies of whales, dies in utter- 
ing a cry, and comes to life at the end of three days ; 
things absurd in themselves, and which are completely 
opposed, moreover, to all the laws of physics, which 
demonstrates to us, incidentally, that the priests have 
always wallowed in base ignorance, and that they 
endeavor to drag down the people with them." 

He ceased speaking, looking around him in search 
of a public, for in his effervescence the apothecary for 
a moment thought himself in full municipal council. 
But the mistress of the inn was no longer listening to 
him. She was lending her ear to a distant rumbling. 
There could be distinguished the sound of a vehicle 
mingled with a rattling of loose hoofs which struck 
against the ground, and the Hirondelle finally pulled 
up before the door. 



PART SECOND 125 

This was a yellow box mounted on two great wheels 
which, rising as high as the tilt, prevented the travelers 
from seeing the road and soiled their shoulders for 
them. The little squares of its narrow windows trem- 
bled in their frames when the vehicle was closed and 
retained spots of mud here and there on their old layer 
of dust, which the torrential rains did not wash at all. 
It was drawn by a spike team of three horses, and in 
descending the hills it reached the extreme limit of 
jolting. 

Several of the bourgeois of Yonville arrived on the 
scene ; they talked all at once, demanding news, 
explanations and the game baskets. Hivert did not 
know which one to answer. It was he who executed in 
the city all the commissions of the country. He went 
into the shops, bringing back rolls of leather for the 
shoemaker, old iron for the blacksmith, a barrel of 
herrings for his mistress, bonnets from the milliner, 
toupets from the wig-maker; and along the road, in 
returning, he distributed his packages, which he threw 
over the tops of the courtyard enclosures, standing up 
in his seat and calling out at the top of his voice, 
whilst his horses went along of their own accord. 

An accident had detained him — the little greyhound 
of Madame Bovary had run away across the fields. 
They had whistled for her a good quarter of an hour ; 
Hivert had even gone back for half a league, thinking 
to see her at every moment, but it had been necessary 



126 MADAME BOVARY 

to continue the journey. Emma had wept, had fallen 
into a passion ; she had accused Charles of this mis- 
fortune. Monsieur L'Heureux, a dry-goods merchant, 
who had been with her in the vehicle, had endeavored 
to console her by a number of examples of lost dogs who 
•recognized their masters at the end of long years. 
There was a case of one, he said, which had returned 
from Constantinople to Paris. Another had made fifty 
leagues in a straight line, and passed four rivers by 
swimming; and his own father had owned a poodle, 
which, after twelve years of absence, had suddenly 
jumped upon his back one evening in the street as he 
was going out to dine. 



II 



Emma descended first, then Felicite, Monsieur L'Heu- 
reux, and a nurse, and they were obliged to awaken 
Charles in his corner where he had gone sound asleep 
as soon as the night had fallen. 

Homais presented himself; he offered his homages 
to madame, his civilities to monsieur, said that he 
was charmed to have been able to render them 
some services, and added, with a cordial air, that 
he had dared to invite himself, his wife, moreover, 
being absent. 



PART SECOND 1 27 

Madame Bovary, when she was in the kitchen, 
approached the fire. With the ends of two of her 
fingers she took her dress at the height of her knees 
and having lifted it up to her ankles, she extended 
towards the fire, over which the leg of mutton was 
turning, her foot shod in a black boot. The fire lit 
her up completely, penetrated with a crude light the 
texture of her dress, the even pores of her white skin 
and even the lids of her eyes, which she half closed 
from time to time. A great ruddy color passed over 
her, following the breath of the wind which came in 
by the half-open door. 

On the other side of the chimney-place, a young 
man with blonde hair looked at her silently. 

As he wearied himself very much in Yonville, where he 
was a clerk in the office of Maitre Guillaumin, Monsieur 
Leon Dupuis — it was he, the second habitue of the Lion 
d' Or — often postponed the moment of his repast, hop- 
ing that some traveler would come to the inn with whom 
he might converse during the evening. On those days 
on which his work was finished early, it was necessary 
for him, in the absence of some diversion, to arrive at 
the exact hour and to submit, from the soup until the 
cheese, to the tete-a-tete with Binet ! It was then with 
joy that he accepted the proposition of the hostess to 
dine in company with the newcomers, and they passed 
into the grande salle where Madame Lefrancois, for 
sumptuousness, had caused the four covers to be laid. 



128 MADAME BOVARY 

Homais requested permission to keep his Greek cap 
for fear of colds in the head ; then, turning towards his 
fair neighbor : 

"Madame is doubtless somewhat weary? one is so 
frightfully jolted in our Hirondelle ! ' ' 

" It is true," replied Emma, " but the moving always 
amuses me ; I love to change places." 

" It is very monotonous," sighed the clerk, " to live 
nailed to the same place all the time !" 

" If you were like me," said Charles, " obliged to be 
on horseback all the time ' ' 

"But," resumed Leon, addressing Madame Bovary, 
"nothing is more agreeable, it seems to me, when one 
can," he added. 

" On the whole," said the apothecary, "the exercise 
of the practice of medicine is not very wearying in our 
districts, for the state of our roads permits the usage of 
the cabriolet, and generally the patients pay pretty well, 
the cultivators of the land being in easy circumstances. 
We have, according to the medical report, in addition 
to the ordinary cases of enteritis, bronchitis, bilious 
affections, etc., from time to time some intermittent 
fevers at the harvest ; but, to sum up, but few things 
serious, nothing special to note, if it be not a great 
many cold humors, which doubtless are occasioned by 
the deplorable hygienic conditions of our peasants' 
lodgings. Ah ! you will find many prejudices to com- 
bat, Monsieur Bovary; many obstinate adherences to 



PART SECOND 129 

routine with which the efforts of your science will daily- 
come into conflict ; for recourse is still had to Neuvains, 
to relics, to the cure, rather than to calling naturally on 
the physician or the pharmaceutist. The climate, more- 
over, is not, to speak truly, bad, and we even count in 
the commune some nonagenarians. The thermometer 
— I have made the observations — descends in winter as 
low as four degrees, and in the warm season touches 25, 
30 centigrade at the most, which gives us 24, Reaumur 
at the maximum, or 54 Fahrenheit — English measure — 
not more, and, in fact, we are sheltered from the winds 
of the north by the forest of Argueil on one side, from 
the winds of the west by the hill Saint-Jean on the 
other; this warmth, however, which, because of the 
watery vapor which arises from the river, and the pres- 
ence of a considerable number of cattle in the meadows 
which exhale, as you know, a great deal of ammonia, 
that is to say, azote, hydrogen and oxygen — no, azote 
and hydrogen only, — and which, drawing to itself from 
the mould of the earth, commingling all these different 
emanations, reuniting them in a bundle, so to speak, 
and mingling itself with the electricity diffused through 
the atmosphere, when there is any, can in the long run, 
as in tropical countries, engender insalubrious miasma ; 
this warmth, as I say, finds itself exactly tempered in 
the direction from which it comes, or, rather, from 
which it would come, that is to say, from the south, 
by the winds of the southeast, which, being refreshed 



130 MADAME BOVARY 

themselves by passing over the Seine, come to us sud- 
denly, all at once, like breezes from Russia." 

"Have you at least some promenades in the neigh- 
borhood ?' ' continued Madame Bovary, speaking to the 
young man. 

" Oh ! very few," he replied. " There is a spot which 
is called la Pature, on the top of a hill, at the edge of 
the forest. Sometimes I go there on Sundays and I 
stay there with a book, contemplating the setting 
sun." 

"I do not know of anything so admirable as sun- 
sets," she replied, " but above all, on the seashore." 

" Oh ! I adore the sea," said Monsieur Leon. 

"And then does it not seem to you," replied Ma- 
dame Bovary, ceasing to eat, " that the spirit floats more 
freely over this extent without limit, the contemplation 
of which elevates your soul and gives ideas of the infi- 
nite, of the ideal?" 

"It is the same with mountain landscapes," resumed 
Leon. "I have a cousin who traveled in Switzerland 
last year and who said to me that one could not imagine 
the poetry of the lakes, the charm of the cascades, the 
gigantic effect of the glaciers. There may be seen 
pines of an incredible grandeur, across the torrents, 
cabins suspended over the precipices, and, a thousand 
feet below you, entire valleys when the clouds open. 
These spectacles must incite enthusiasm, dispose one to 
prayer, to ecstasy ! Thus I am no longer surprised at 



PART SECOND 131 

that celebrated musician who, in order better to excite 
his imagination, was in the habit of playing his piano 
before some imposing view." 

" You are a musician?" she asked. 

" No, but I love it very much," he replied. 

" Ah ! do not listen to him, Madame Bovary," inter- 
rupted Homais, leaning over his plate, "that is pure 
modesty. What, my dear fellow ! And the other day 
in your chamber you sang The Guardian Angel admi- 
rably. I heard you from the laboratory ; your staccato 
effect was like that of an actor." 

Leon, in fact, lodged with the apothecary, he had a 
little room on the second floor, looking out on the 
Place. He blushed at this compliment from his land- 
lord, who had already turned back to the doctor and 
was enumerating to him, one after the other, the prin- 
cipal inhabitants of Yonville. He related anecdotes, 
gave information ; the fortune of the notary was not 
exactly known, and there was the house of Tuvache 
which was much embarrassed. 

Emma resumed : 

" And what music do you prefer?" 

"Oh ! the German, that which induces revery." 

" Do you know the Italiens ?" 

" Not yet; but I shall go there next year when I am 
going to Paris to finish my law studies." 

"It is," said the apothecary, " as I had the honor, 
to express to monsieur, your husband, apropos of this 



132 MADAME BOVARY 

poor Yanoda who has run away ; you will find yourself, 
thanks to the follies which he has committed, enjoying 
one of the most comfortable houses in Yonville. That 
which is particularly convenient for a physician is that 
there is a door on the Allee by which you may enter 
and go out without being seen. Moreover, it is fur- 
nished with everything that is desirable in a household ; 
washhouse, kitchen with pantry, family room, fruit-loft, 
etc. That was a gay fellow who did not stop to con- 
sider ! He had constructed, at the end of the garden, 
on the edge of the water, a bower expressly for himself 
in which to drink beer in summer time, and if madame 
loves gardening, she may be able ' ' 

"My wife scarcely ever occupies herself with it," 
Charles said ; ' ' although exercise is recommended to 
her, she likes better to remain all the time in her cham- 
ber, reading." 

"That is like me," resumed Leon. "What is there 
better, in fact, than to rest, in the evening, at a corner 
of the fire with a book, whilst the wind beats at the 
windows, the lamp burns ' ' 

"Is it not so?" she said, fixing on him her great 
wide-open black eyes. 

"You think of nothing," he continued, "the hours 
pass ; you traverse, motionless, countries which you 
think you see, and your thought, intertwining with the 
fiction, entertains itself with the details or follows the 
outlines of the adventures. It mingles itself with the 



PART SECOND 133 

personages ; it seems that it is you, yourself, who palpi- 
tate under their costumes. ' ' 

"That is true ! that is true !" she said. 

" Has it sometimes happened to you," resumed Leon, 
" to encounter in a book a vague idea which has haunted 
you, some obscured image which returns from afar, as 
the complete exposition of your most delicate senti- 
ment ?" 

" I have experienced that," she replied. 

" That is why," he said, " I love poets above all. I 
find verses more tender than prose, and that they are 
much more conducive to tears." 

" However, they weary in the long run," replied 
Emma; "and for my part, on the contrary, I adore 
those stories which flow along without interruption, by 
which one is frightened. I detest the commonplace 
heroes, and the tempered sentiments, such as there are 
in nature." 

"In fact," observed the clerk, "these works, not 
touching the heart, go astray, it seems to me, from the 
true aim of art. It is so pleasant among the disen- 
chantments of life, to be able to return in thought to 
noble characters, pure affections and the pictures of 
happiness. As for myself, living here, far from the 
world, it is my only distraction ; but Yonville offers so 
few resources ! ' ' 

"Like Tostes, doubtless," replied Emma: "so I 
always subscribed to a reading-room." 



134 MADAME BOVARY 

"If madame will do me the honor to use it," said 
the apothecary, who had heard these last words, " I 
have myself at her disposition a library composed of 
the best authors, — Voltaire, Rousseau, Delille, Walter 
Scott, Z' Echo des Feuilletons, etc., and I receive, more- 
over, different periodical publications, among others, 
Le Fanal de Rouen, daily, having the advantage of 
being its correspondent for the districts of Buchy, 
Forges, Neufchatel, Yonville and the neighborhood." 

They had been at the table two hours and a half; for 
the servant, Artemise, dragging nonchalantly over the 
pavement her old list shoes, brought the plates one 
after another, forgot everything, comprehended noth- 
ing, and constantly left half open the door of the 
billiard-room which beat against the wall the end of 
the knob of its latch. 

Without his perceiving it, in the midst of their con- 
versation, Leon had put his foot on one of the rounds 
of the chair on which Madame Bovary was sitting. She 
wore a little cravat of blue silk which enclosed, stiff as 
a ruff, a collar of pleated batiste ; and, following the 
movements of her head, the lower part of her face 
buried itself in the linen or rose out of it softly. It 
was thus, one close to the other, while Charles and the 
apothecary conferred, that they drifted into one of those 
vague conversations in which the chance of the phrases 
brings you back always to the fixed centre of a com- 
mon sympathy. Parisian theatres, titles of novels, new 



PART SECOND 135 

quadrilles, and the world which they did not know, 
Tostes where she had lived, Yonville where they were, 
they examined all, spoke of all, until the end of the 
dinner. 

When the coffee was served, Felicite went away to 
prepare the chamber in the new house and the guests 
soon rose from the table. Madame Lefrancois was 
asleep before the ashes of the fire, whilst the stable-boy, 
a lantern in his hands, was waiting for Monsieur and 
Madame Bovary to conduct them home. When he had 
taken the umbrella of Monsieur le Cure in his other 
hand, they set out. 

The borough was all asleep. The pillars of the mar- 
ket cast long and huge shadows. The earth was quite 
gray, as on a summer night. 

The doctor's house being within fifty steps of the inn, 
it was necessary almost immediately to say good-night, 
and the company dispersed. 

Emma, as soon as she was in the vestibule, felt the 
cold of the plaster fall on her shoulders like a damp 
linen. The walls were new and the wooden steps 
creaked. In the chamber on the first floor, a pale 
light shone through the curtainless windows. The tops 
of the trees could be partially seen and, farther away, 
the meadow half obscured in the mist which rose in the 
moonlight, following the course of the river. In the 
middle of the apartment, piled together indiscrimi- 
nately, there were bureau drawers, bottles, curtain-rods, 



136 MADAME BOVARY 

gilt batons, with mattresses on the chairs and wash basins 
on the floor, — the two men who had brought the furni- 
ture having dropped everything there carelessly. 

This was the fourth time that she had slept in an 
unknown locality. The first had been on the day of 
her entry into the convent, the second on that of her 
arrival at Tostes, the third at the Vaubyessard, the 
fourth was here ; and each one took its place in her 
life as the inauguration of a new phase. She did not 
believe that things could present themselves in the same 
fashion at different places, and since the portion which 
she had lived had been bad, doubtless that which 
remained for her would be better. 



Ill 



The next morning on her awakening, she saw the 
clerk on the public Place. She was in her wrapper. 
He raised his head and saluted her. She made a rapid 
inclination and closed the window. 

Leon waited the whole day for six o'clock in the 
evening to arrive ; but when he entered the inn he 
found no one except Monsieur Binet at the table. 

The dinner of the evening before had been for him a 
considerable event ; never, up to that time, had he con- 
versed for two consecutive hours with a lady. How 



PART SECOND 137 

then had he been able to set forth, and in such lan- 
guage, a number of things that he would not have been 
able to express so well formerly ? He was habitually 
timid, and had that reserve which partakes at the same 
time of modesty and of dissimulation. In Yonville he 
was generally considered to have manners cotnme ilfaut. 
He listened to the arguments of those of ripe age and 
did not appear to entertain rash opinions in politics, a 
remarkable thing for a young man. Then he was not 
without talents, he painted in water-colors, knew some- 
thing about music, and willingly interested himself in 
literature after his dinner, when he did not play cards. 
Monsieur Homais held him in consideration because of 
his general information ; Madame Homais entertained 
an affection for him because of his regard for others ; 
for he often accompanied to the garden the little 
Homais, brats always dirty, very badly brought up and 
somewhat lymphatic, like their mother. They had, to 
take care of them, in addition to the bonne, Justin, 
the pupil in pharmacy, a distant cousin of Monsieur 
Homais, who had been taken into the house through 
charity and who served at the same time as domestic. 

The apothecary showed himself to be the best of 
neighbors. He gave Madame Bovary information con- 
cerning the furniture, had his own cider merchant come 
expressly, tasted the liquor himself, and superintended 
in the cellar the proper placing of the cask ; he gave 
further information concerning the steps to be taken to 



138 MADAME BOVARY 

secure a supply of butter at reasonable prices, and con- 
cluded an arrangement with Lestiboudois, the sacristan, 
who, in addition to his functions sacerdotal and mortu- 
ary, took care of the principal gardens of Yonville by 
the hour or by the year, as you preferred. 

It was not alone the necessity of occupying himself 
with the affairs of others, which impelled the pharma- 
cist to so much obsequious cordiality, he had a plan 
behind it. 

He had infringed the law of the 19 Ventose year XL, 
first section, which forbids every individual not pro- 
vided with a diploma to practise medicine ; so much so, 
that under some mysterious denunciations Homais had 
been summoned to Rouen, before the king's attorney 
in his private office. The magistrate had received him 
standing, in his robes, his ermine on his shoulders and 
his toque on his head. This was in the morning, before 
the session. In the corridors could be heard the heavy 
boots of the gendarmes, and something like a distant 
sound of heavy locks closing. The ears of the apothe- 
cary rang in such a fashion that he was near falling with 
a rush of blood to his head ; he had glimpses of the 
bottoms of dungeons, his family in tears, the pharmacy 
sold, all the bottles scattered ; and he was obliged to 
enter a cafe to take a glass of rum with seltzer, to 
restore his spirits. 

However, the souvenir of this admonition had grown 
feeble, and he continued, as formerly, to give soothing 



PART SECOND 139 

consultations in his back shop. But the mayor was 
vexed with him, his cronies were jealous, everything 
was to be feared; and to attach Monsieur Bovary to 
him through courtesies would be to gain his gratitude 
and prevent him from speaking later if he perceived 
anything wrong. Thus every morning, Homais brought 
him the journal, and often in the afternoon, left the 
pharmacy for a moment to go and have a conversation 
with the officier de sante. 

Charles was melancholy : the patients did not arrive. 
He remained sitting for long hours at a time, without 
speaking, went to sleep in his office, or watched his 
wife sewing. In order to distract himself, he worked 
about the place like a laborer and even undertook to 
paint the barn with some color which the painters had 
left. But he was preoccupied with his money affairs. 
He had expended so much for the repairs at Tostes, for 
Madame's toilets and for the moving, and all the dot, 
plus three thousand ecus, had disappeared in two years. 
Then, so many things damaged or lost in the transpor- 
tation from Tostes to Yonville, without counting the 
cure in plaster, who, falling from the cart through a 
too heavy jolt, had broken himself in a thousand pieces 
on the pavement of Quincampoix ! 

A more comforting thought came to relieve him, that 
is, his wife's pregnancy. In proportion as the time 
approached he cherished her all the more. It was 
another bond of the flesh establishing itself between 



140 MADAME BO VARY 

them, and, as it were, the continued sentiment of a 
more complex union. When he saw from a distance 
her indolent attitudes and her figure, without its corset, 
turning softly on her hips, when, face to face with each 
other, he contemplated her at his ease and when she 
took, seated in her easy-chair, wearied attitudes, then 
his happiness could no longer contain itself; he rose, 
he embraced her, passed his hands over her face, called 
her little mamma, wished to make her dance and 
uttered, half laughing, half crying, all sorts of caressing 
pleasantries which came into his mind. The idea of 
having engendered delighted him. Nothing was want- 
ing to him at present. He was acquainted with human 
existence in its full extent, and he established himself 
in it with his elbows on the table in great serenity. 

Emma, at first experienced a great astonishment, 
then she had a desire to be delivered so that she might 
know what sort of a thing it was to be a mother. But, 
not being able to afford, as she would have liked, the 
expense of a cradle in mother-of-pearl with curtains 
of pink silk and embroidered caps for the baby, she 
renounced the whole trousseau in an accession of bit- 
terness, and ordered it all at once from a workwoman 
in the village, without selecting or discussing anything. 
She did not interest herself in these preparations, in 
which the tenderness of mothers manifests its desires ; 
and her affection from the beginning was perhaps 
diminished by something. However, as Charles at all 



PART SECOND 141 

his meals talked of the infant, presently she began to 
think of it in a more continuous manner. 

She wished for a son ; he should be strong and dark ; 
she would call him Georges ; and this idea of having 
for a child a male was like the hoped-for revenge for 
all her past incapacities. A man at least is free ; he 
can range through passions and countries, traverse 
obstacles, taste of the most distant happinesses. But a 
woman is continually hindered. Inert and flexible at 
the same time, she has against her the softness of the 
flesh with the dependencies enforced by the law. Her 
will, like the veil of her bonnet retained by a cord, 
flutters in every wind ; there is always some desire which 
carries her away, some conventionality which retains her. 

The child was born on a Sunday, about six o'clock, 
at sunrise. 

"It is a girl!" said Charles. She turned her head 
and fainted. 

Almost immediately Madame Homais hastened to 
embrace her as did the Mere Lefrancois of the Lion 
d ' Or. The apothecary, as a discreet man, contented 
himself with addressing to her some provisory con- 
gratulations through the half-open door. He wished to 
see the infant, and found it well shaped. 

During her convalescence, she occupied herself a 
good deal in seeking a name for her daughter. At first 
she passed in review all those which had Italian ter- 
minations, such as Clara, Louisa, Amanda, Atala; she 



I 4 2 MADAME BOVARY 

liked Galsuinte well enough, still better Yseult or Leo- 
cadie. Charles desired the infant to have the same 
name as its mother ; Emma opposed it. They searched 
through the calendar from one end to the other, and 
they consulted strangers. 

" Monsieur Leon," said the apothecary, " with whom 
I was talking the other day, was surprised that you did 
not choose Madeleine, which is very much in the fash- 
ion at the present time." 

The mother Bovary exclaimed strongly against this 
name of the sinner. Monsieur Homais, on his part, 
had a predilection for all those which recalled a great 
man, an illustrious action, or a generous conception, 
and it was in pursuance of this system that he had 
baptized his four children. Thus Napoleon represented 
glory, and Franklin, liberty; Irma, perhaps, was a 
concession to romanticism ; but Athalie was an homage 
to the most immortal masterpiece of the French drama ; 
for his philosophic convictions did not interfere with 
his artistic admirations; in him, the thinker did not 
extinguish the man of feeling ; he had sufficient knowl- 
edge to establish distinctions, to define the part of the 
imagination and that of fanaticism. Of this tragedy, 
for example, he blamed the ideas but he admired the 
style ; he execrated the conception, but he applauded 
all the details, and was exasperated with the person- 
ages while becoming enthusiastic over their discourses. 
When he read these grand pieces he was transported, 



PART SECOND 143 

but when he reflected that the clericals drew arguments 
from them for their discourse, he was desolated ; and in 
this confusion of sentiments in which he embarrassed 
himself he would have desired at once to be able to 
crown Racine with both hands and to dispute with him 
during a good quarter of an hour. 

Emma remembered that at the Chateau of the 
Vaubyessard, she had heard the marchioness address a 
young woman as Berthe ; from that moment that name 
was chosen, and, as the Pere Rouault could not come, 
Monsieur Homais was requested to be godfather. His 
gifts were all products of his own establishment, that 
is to say, six boxes of jujube paste, an entire bottle of 
racahoMt, three round, high baskets of marshmallow 
paste, together with six sticks of sugar candy^which he 
had found in a wall closet. The evening of the cere- 
mony, there was a great dinner ; the cure was there ; 
enthusiasm grew. Monsieur Homais, about the time 
of the liqueurs, intoned The God of the Just. Mon- 
sieur Leon sang a barcarolle, and Madame Bovary the 
elder, who was the godmother, a romance of the time 
of the empire ; finally, old Monsieur Bovary insisted 
that the child should be brought down, and proceeded 
to baptize it with a glass of champagne which he 
poured from above on its head. This mockery of the 
first of the sacraments made the Abbe Bournisien 
indignant ; the Pere Bovary replied by a quotation 
from The War of the Gods ; the cure wished to leave ; 



144 MADAME BOVARY 

the ladies entreated ; Homais interposed ; and the 
ecclesiastic was finally prevailed upon to take his seat 
again, where he resumed his tranquil libations, sipping 
from a saucer his half-consumed demitasse of coffee. 

Monsieur Bovary pere remained a month at Yon- 
ville, whose inhabitants he bedazzled by a superb police 
headgear, laced with silver, which he wore in the 
mornings when he smoked his pipe on the Place. 
Being in the habit, also, of drinking a good deal of 
brandy, he often sent the maidservant to the Zwn d' Or 
to buy him a bottle, which was charged to his son's 
account ; and he used up, in perfuming his silk hand- 
kerchiefs, all his daughter-in-law's provision of eau-de- 
Cologne. 

She, however, was not displeased with his company. 
He had been all over the world ; he talked of Berlin, 
of Vienna, of Strasbourg, of his life when an officer, of 
the mistresses that he had had, of the grand dejeuners 
that he had given ; then he showed himself of a friendly 
disposition, and sometimes even, on the stairway or in 
the garden, he took her around the waist exclaiming : 
" Charles, look out for yourself!" The mother Bovary 
became frightened for the happiness of her son, and, 
fearing that her spouse in the long run would exercise 
an immoral influence on the ideas of the young wife, 
she hastened the date of their departure. Perhaps she 
had even more serious anxiety ? Monsieur Bovary was 
a man to respect nothing. 



PART SECOND 145 

Emma was one day suddenly seized with a desire to 
see her little daughter, who had been put out at nurse 
with the wife of the joiner; and, without looking at 
the almanac to see whether the six weeks of the Virgin 
were yet passed, she took her way toward the dwelling 
of Rollet, which was at the extremity of the village, at 
the bottom of the hill, between the high-road and the 
meadows. 

It was high noon; the houses had their shutters 
closed, and the roofs of slate which shone under the 
intense light of the blue sky seemed from the crests of 
their gables to scatter little sparks. A heavy wind was 
blowing. Emma felt herself feeble in walking. The 
pebbles of the pathway hurt her feet ; she hesitated 
whether she would return home or go in somewhere to 
sit down. 

At this moment Monsieur Leon came out of a neigh- 
boring door with a bundle of papers under his arm. 
He came up to speak to her and placed himself in the 
shade before the shop of L'Heureux, under its gray 
awning. 

Madame Bovary said that she was going to see her 
child, but that she was beginning to feel weary. 

" If? " replied Leon, not daring to continue. 

" Have you business anywhere?" she asked. 

And on the clerk's reply, she requested him to 
accompany her. By the evening, this was known 
throughout Yonville and Madame Tuvache, the mayor's 



146 MADAME BOVARY 

wife, declared before her maidservant that Madame 
Bovary had compromised herself. 

To arrive at the nurse's house, it was necessary, after 
leaving the street, to turn to the left as if to go to the 
cemetery, and to follow between the small houses and 
the courtyard a little path which was bordered by a 
privet hedge. They were in flower and the veronicas 
also, the eglantines, the nettles and the light brambles 
which were thrown out by the bushes. Through the 
holes in the hedges they could see in the hovels an 
occasional pig on a dunghill, or tethered cows rubbing 
their horns against the trunks of the trees. Side by side 
they walked along softly together, she leaning on him 
and he shortening his steps to accommodate hers ; before 
them, a swarm of flies hovered, buzzing in the warm air. 

They recognized the house by an old walnut-tree 
which overshadowed it. Low, and covered with brown 
tiles, it had suspended, outside under the garret window, 
a string of onions. Some fagots, upright against the 
enclosure of briars, surrounded a square of lettuce, 
some sprigs of lavender and flowering peas supported 
by sticks. Little streams of dirty water ran winding 
through the grass; and there were scattered around 
various indistinguishable rags, knit stockings, an under- 
waistcoat of red printed cotton and a large piece of 
thick stuff spread out along the hedge. At the sound 
of the gate the nurse appeared, holding in her arms an 
infant who was sucking. She held by the other hand a 



PART SECOND 147 

poor little sickly child, its face covered with scrofulous 
marks, the son of a hosier of Rouen, whom its par- 
ents, too much occupied with their business, left in the 
country. 

' ' Come in, ' ' she said, ' ' your little one is here asleep. ' ' 

The chamber on the ground floor, the only one in 
the building, had at the back against the wall a large 
bed without curtains, while the kneading-trough occu- 
pied the side by the window, one glass of which was 
mended with a sun in blue paper. In the angle be- 
hind the door, some half-boots with shining nails were 
arranged under the slab of the sink near to a bottle 
full of oil which carried a feather in its neck ; a Math- 
ieu Laensberg 2 was thrown along the dusty chimney- 
piece among gun-flints and pieces of tinder. Finally, 
•the last superfluity of this apartment was a Fame blow- 
ing her trumpets, a figure cut out doubtless from some 
perfumery prospectus and which six shoe nails fastened 
to the wall. 

Emma's child was sleeping on the ground in a willow 
cradle. She took it up with the covering that enveloped 
it and began to sing to it softly, dandling it up and 
down. 

Leon walked about in the room ; it seemed to him 
strange to see this handsome lady in a nankeen dress, 
in the midst of all this poverty. Madame Bovary 
became very red ; he turned away, fearing that his eyes 
perhaps had been somewhat impertinent. Then she 



148 MADAME BOVARY 

put the child back in its cradle and it began to vomit 
on its little collar. The nurse immediately came to 
clean it, protesting that it would not show. 

' ' She does it for me a great many times, ' ' she said, 
"and I am continually occupied in wiping her. If 
you would have the kindness to order Camus, the 
grocer, to let me take a little soap whenever I need it, 
it would be even more convenient for you that I should 
not be incommoded." 

" Very well ! very well !" said Emma. " Good-bye, 
Madame Rollet ! ' ' and she went out, wiping her feet on 
the threshold. 

The good woman accompanied her as far as the end 
of the court, talking all the time of the troubles she 
had in being obliged to get up at night. 

" I am so broken up that sometimes I go to sleep on 
my chair; so you might at the least give me a little 
pound of ground coffee, which would last me a month, 
and which I could take in the morning with milk." 

After having endured her thanks, Madame Bovary 
went away, and she had gone some little distance in 
the path when at the sound of sabots behind her she 
turned her head — it was the nurse ! 

"What is the matter?" 

Then the peasant woman, drawing her aside behind 
an elm, commenced to talk to her of her husband, who, 
with his trade and six francs a year that the captain 

" Get along more quickly," said Emma. 



PART SECOND 149 

" Well !" resumed the nurse, uttering sighs between 
each word, " I am afraid that he will be vexed at see- 
ing me take coffee all alone ; you know the men " 

"Since you will have it," repeated Emma, "I will 
give it to you ! You weary me ! ' ' 

" Alas ! my poor dear lady, it is that he has, because 
of his hurts, terrible cramps in his chest. He even 
says that cider weakens him. ' ' 

" But hurry up, mere Rollet !" 

"Then," replied the latter making a curtsey, "if 

it is not to ask too much of you ' ' she saluted 

again, — "when you would like," — and her look 
entreated, — "a little pitcher of brandy," she said 
finally, "and I will rub the feet of your little girl 
with it, who has them as tender as the tongue." 

Relieved of the nurse, Emma again took Monsieur 
Leon's arm. She walked rapidly during some time; 
then she slackened her pace and her eyes, which she 
directed in front of her, encountered the shoulder of 
the young man, whose frock coat had a collar of black 
velvet. His chestnut locks fell upon it, flat and care- 
fully combed. She noticed that his finger-nails were 
longer than they were generally worn at Yonville. It 
was one of the serious occupations of the clerk to take 
care of them ; and he kept for this purpose a particular 
penknife in his writing-desk. 

They returned to Yonville, following the course of 
the stream. In the warm season, the shore, becoming 



150 MADAME BOVARY 

wider, discovered even the bases of the garden walls 
from which a few steps descended to the river. It 
flowed without sound, rapidly and cold to the eye ; 
long thin grass stems swayed in it together as the cur- 
rent pushed them, and, like abandoned locks of green 
hair, displayed themselves in its limpidness. Some- 
times, at the ends of the rushes, or on the leaves of 
the water-lilies, an insect with fine legs walked about or 
stood still. The sun traversed with his rays the little 
blue particles of the waves which succeeded each other 
in disappearing ; the pruned old willow trees mirrored 
in the water their gray bark ; the meadow beyond 
seemed deserted ; it was the hour of dinner on the 
farms, and the young woman and her companion heard 
as they walked only the cadence of their footsteps on 
the earth of the path, the words which they said, and 
the rustling of Emma's dress which brushed everything 
around her. 

The walls of the gardens, garnished along their coping 
by pieces of bottles, were as warm as the glass of a hot- 
house. In the interstices of the bricks, the wall-flowers 
had sprouted ; and with the edge of her open umbrella, 
Madame Bovary, in passing, caused them to shake out a 
little yellow dust from their faded blossoms, or else some 
branch of honeysuckle or clematis which hung outside, 
caught for a moment on the silk, clinging to the fringes. 

They were talking of a troupe of Spanish dancers 
which were expected soon at the theatre of Rouen. 



PART SECOND 151 

"You will go to see them?" she asked. "If I can," 
he replied. 

Had they then nothing else to say to each other? 
Their eyes, however, were full of a more serious con- 
versation, and while they were making an effort to 
find commonplace phrases, they felt the same languor 
invade them both at once. It was like a murmur of 
the soul, profound, continued, which dominated that of 
the voices. Seized with surprise at this novel sweet- 
ness, it did not occur to them to speak to each other of 
the sensation or to discover the cause. Future happi- 
nesses, like the shores of the tropics, project upon the 
immensities which precede them, their natal mildness, 
a perfumed breeze, and one is lulled in this intoxica- 
tion without even being anxious concerning the horizon, 
which is not seen. 

The ground in one locality was trodden by the feet 
of the cattle ; it was necessary to step across on 
great green stones, spaced like stepping-stones in the 
mud. Several times she stopped a minute to look or 
to find a place on which to rest her shoe, swaying 
on the stone which trembled under her, her elbows in 
the air, her figure inclined, her eyes undecided; then 
she laughed for fear she might fall into the pools of 
water. 

When they arrived at her garden, Madame Bovary 
opened the little gate, mounted the steps hastily and 
disappeared. 



152 MADAME BOVARY 

Leon re-entered his office. His employer was ab- 
sent ; he gave a glance at the papers, then sharpened a 
pen, finally took his hat and went away. 

He went up on la Pature, at the top of the hill of 
Argueil, at the entrance to the forest ; he lay down on 
the ground under the fir-trees and looked at the sky 
through his fingers. 

"How I bore myself!" he said to himself, "how I 
bore myself!" 

He considered himself entitled to complain at hav- 
ing to live in this village, with Homais for a friend and 
Monsieur Guillaumin for a master. This last, entirely 
taken up with his business, wearing gold-rimmed spec- 
tacles and reddish whiskers over a white cravat, under- 
stood nothing of the delicacies of the spirit, although 
he affected a stiff and English air which had dazzled 
the clerk on their first acquaintance. As to the wife of 
the apothecary, she was the best spouse in Normandy, 
gentle as a sheep, cherishing her infants, her father, her 
mother, her cousins, weeping at the catastrophes of 
others, neglecting her household, and detesting cor- 
sets; but so slow of movement, so wearisome to listen 
to, of an aspect so common, and of a conversation so 
restricted, that he had never thought, although she was 
thirty years old, he was twenty, although they slept in 
adjoining rooms and spoke to each other every day, 
that she could be a woman for anyone, or that she 
possessed of her sex anything but the dress. 



PART SECOND 153 

And after that, what was there ? Binet, a few mer- 
chants, two or three innkeepers, the cure, and, finally, 
Monsieur Tuvache, the mayor, with his two sons, 
people substantial, morose, obtuse, cultivating their 
grounds themselves, given to gluttony in the household, 
devout moreover, and of a society altogether unsupport- 
able. 

But against the background of all these human vis- 
ages, Emma's face detached itself, isolated, and still 
farther away, however, for he felt between her and him 
something like vague abysses. 

In the commencement, he had gone to call at her 
house several times in the company of the apothecary. 
Charles had not appeared to be extremely desirous to 
receive him ; and Leon did not know quite how to act, 
between the fear of being indiscreet and the desire for 
an intimacy which he esteemed almost impossible. 



IV 



At the first cold weather Emma left her chamber to 
live in the salle, a long room with a low ceiling, in 
which there was on the chimney-piece a tufted polypier, 
a marine plant, displayed against the glass. Seated in 
her armchair near the window, she saw the people of 
the village pass on the sidewalk. 



154 MADAME BOVARY 

Leon, twice a day, went from his office to the Lion 
d ' Or. Emma from a distance heard him coming ; she 
leaned over in listening and the young man slipped 
along behind the curtain, always dressed in the same 
manner and without turning his head. But in the twi- 
light, when, with her chin on her left hand, she had 
abandoned, on her knees, the tapestry she had com- 
menced, often she shuddered at the apparition of this 
shadow which passed suddenly. She rose and ordered 
that the table be laid. 

Monsieur Homais arrived during the dinner. Greek 
cap in hand, he entered with noiseless steps so as not to 
disturb anyone, and always repeating the same phrase : 
"Good-evening, all !" then, when he was arranged in 
his place against the table, between husband and wife, 
he asked the physician news of his patients, and the 
latter consulted him on the probability of fees. Then 
they began to talk of what was in the journal. Homais, 
at this hour, knew it almost by heart, and he reported 
it integrally, with the observations of the journalist and 
the complete histories of individual catastrophes which 
had happened in France or abroad. But this subject 
becoming exhausted, he did not delay launching into a 
few observations upon the dishes which he saw before 
him. Sometimes even, half rising, he indicated deli- 
cately to madame the most tender piece, or, turning 
toward the servant, he addressed to her various counsels 
concerning the manipulation of stews and the hygiene 



PART SECOND 155 

of seasonings; he talked of aroma, osmazome, juices 
and gelatin in a manner that bedazzled. His head, 
moreover, much fuller of receipts than his pharmacy 
was of bottles, Homais excelled in the manufacture of 
a quantity of confitures, vinegars and sweet liqueurs, 
and he was acquainted, also, with all the new inven- 
tions of the economical cooking apparatuses, with the 
art of preserving cheeses and of doctoring poor wine. 

At eight o'clock, Justin came to get him to close up 
the pharmacy. Then Monsieur Homais would look at 
him with a sly eye, especially if Felicite were there, 
having perceived that his pupil had conceived an affec- 
tion for the doctor's house : 

" My fine fellow," he said, " is commencing to have 
ideas, and, I believe, the devil fly away with me, that 
he is in love with your bonne ! ' ' 

A graver defect and one with which he reproached 
him, was that of continually listening to conversations. 
On Sundays, for example, he could not be got out of 
the salon where Madame Homais had called him to 
take care of the children, who went to sleep in the big 
chairs, pulling down with their backs the coverings of 
calico which were too large. 

There were not a great many people who came to 
these evenings at the apothecary's, his evil speaking 
and his political opinion having driven away from him, 
successively, different respectable persons. The clerk 
did not fail to be there. As soon as he heard the bell. 



156 MADAME BOVARY 

he hastened to meet Madame Bovary, took her shawl 
and put on one side, under the bureau of the pharmacy, 
the heavy list slippers which she wore over her shoes 
when there was snow. 

There were at first several parties of trente et un; 
then Monsieur Homais played at ecarte with Emma ; 
Leon, behind her, giving her advice. Standing, and 
his hands on the back of her chair, he looked at the 
teeth of her comb which sank into her chignon. At 
each movement which she made to play her cards, the 
right side of her dress rose. From her trussed up hair 
a brownish reflection descended upon her back and 
which, paling gradually, little by little lost itself in the 
shadow. Her skirts fell on both sides of her chair 
puffing out full of folds and displaying themselves even 
on the ground. When Leon occasionally felt the sole 
of his boot tread on them, he moved aside as if he had 
stepped on someone. 

When the games of cards were ended, the apothecary 
and the doctor played at dominoes, and Emma, chang- 
ing her place, leaned her elbows on the table, turning 
over the leaves of Z' Illustration. She had brought her 
fashion journal. Leon placed himself near her, they 
looked at the engravings together and waited for each 
other at the bottom of the pages. She often entreated 
him to read the verses to her ; Leon declaimed them 
with a dragging voice and one which he carefully per- 
mitted to die away at the love passages ; but the noise 



PART SECOND 157 

of the dominoes annoyed him. Monsieur Homais was 
strong at this game ; he beat Charles with a full double- 
six ; then, the three hundreds finished, he stretched 
himself out before the fire and did not delay going to 
sleep. The fire died out in the cinders, the teapot was 
empty ; Leon was still reading and Emma listening to 
him, turning mechanically the shade of the lamp on 
which was painted on the gauze Pierrots in carriages 
and female tight-rope dancers with balancing poles. 
Leon stopped, designating with a gesture, his sleeping 
audience ; then they spoke to each other in a low voice 
and the conversation which they held seemed to them 
more pleasant because it was not overheard. 

Thus there was established between them a sort of 
association, a continual exchange of books and of 
romances ; Monsieur Bovary, very little jealous, was 
not surprised at it. 

He received for his birthday a fine phrenological 
bust, all marked out in figures as far down as the thorax 
and painted in blue. This was an attention from the 
clerk. There were many others, — even to executing in 
Rouen his commissions ; and, the book of a romancer 
having brought into fashion certain thick and juicy 
plants, Leon bought some of them for madame, which 
he brought on his knees, in the Hirondelle, pricking 
his fingers with their hard skin. 

She caused to be arranged against her window a little 
shelf, like a balustrade, to hold her pots. The clerk 



158 MADAME BOVARY 

also had his hanging garden ; they perceived each 
other caring for their flowers in their windows. 

Among the windows of the village there was one that 
was still more often occupied. For, on Sundays, from 
morning to night and every afternoon, when the weather 
was clear, there could be seen at the garret window of 
an upper story the meagre profile of Monsieur Binet, 
leaning over his turning lathe, the monotonous droning 
of which could be heard as far as the Lion d' Or. 

One evening on returning home, Leon found in his 
chamber a carpet of velvet and wool with figures of 
leafage on a pale background; he called in Madame 
Homais, Monsieur Homais, Justin, the children, the 
cook ; he spoke of it to his employer ; everybody wished 
to know this carpet ; why did the doctor's wife display 
these generosities to the clerk ? This seemed curious, 
and it was definitely thought that she must be his good 
friend. 

He gave reasons for believing so, so ceaselessly did 
he entertain you with her charms and her wit, so much 
so that Binet replied to him at one time very brutally : 

" What difference does it make to me, since I am not 
of her society?" 

He tortured himself to discover by what means to 
make his declaration ; and, always hesitating, between 
the fear of displeasing her and the shame of being so 
pusillanimous, he wept with discouragement and with 
desire. Then he arrived at energetic decisions ; he 



PART SECOND 159 

wrote letters which he tore up, postponed till epochs 
which he set still further ahead. Often he set out with 
the determination to dare everything, but this resolu- 
tion abandoned him very quickly in Emma's presence, 
and when Charles, coming in, invited him to get into 
his boc to go and see with him some sick person, in the 
environs, he accepted promptly, saluted madame and 
went away. Her husband, was he not some part of 
her? 

As to Emma, she did not interrogate herself to know 
if she loved. Love, she believed, should arrive all at 
once with great outbursts and fulgurations, a storm from 
the heavens which should fall upon life, overwhelm it, 
tear out the desires like dry leaves and carry into the 
abyss the entire heart. She did not know that on the 
roofs of the houses rain makes lakes when the gutters 
are stopped up, and she would thus have dwelt in 
security, when she suddenly discovered a crack in her 
wall. 



It was a Sunday in February, an afternoon when it 
snowed. 

They had, all of them, Monsieur and Madame Bovary, 
Homais and Monsieur Leon, gone off to see, at half 
a league from Yonville in the valley, a spinning mill 



160 MADAME BOVARY 

which had been established. The apothecary had 
brought with him Napoleon and Athalie in order to 
give them exercise and Justin accompanied them, carry- 
ing the umbrellas on his shoulders. 

Nothing, however, was less curious than this curiosity, 
— a great extent of empty ground, on which might be 
seen indiscriminately, between piles of sand and around 
stones, a few gearing wheels already rusted, surrounded 
a long quadrangular building pierced by a number of 
little windows. It was not yet completed and the sky 
could be seen through the joists of the roof. Attached 
to the small beam of the gable a bunch of straw mingled 
with heads of grain flourished in the wind its tricolored 
ribbons. 

Homais discoursed. He explained to the company the 
future importance of this establishment, computed the 
strength of the floors, the thickness of the walls and 
regretted greatly not to have brought a metric cane, such 
as Monsieur Binet possessed for his own private use. 

Emma, to whom he had given his arm, leaned a little 
on his shoulder, and she looked at the disc of the sun 
lighting up in the distance in the mist its pale splendor ; 
she turned her head ; Charles was there ; he had his 
cap pulled down on his eyebrows and his two thick lips 
were trembling, which added something stupid to his 
visage. His back even, his tranquil back, was irritating 
to see, and she found displayed over the frock coat all 
the platitude of the personage. 



PART SECOND 161 

While she was considering him, tasting thus in her 
irritation a sort of depraved voluptuousness, Leon 
advanced a step. The cold, which made him pale, 
seemed to give to his countenance a softer languor; 
between his cravat and his neck, the collar of his shirt, 
a little open, permitted the skin to be seen ; the tip of 
an ear appeared under a lock of hair and his great blue 
eyes, lifted toward the clouds, seemed to Emma more 
limpid and more beautiful than those mountain lakes in 
which the sky mirrors itself. 

"You, wretched !" cried the apothecary, suddenly. 

And he hastened toward his son, who had just pre- 
cipitated himself into a pile of chalk in order to paint 
his shoes white. To the reproaches with which he 
was overwhelmed, Napoleon took to replying by howl- 
ings, whilst Justin wiped off his shoes with a wisp of 
straw. 

A knife was required ; Charles offered his. 

" Ah !" she said to herself, " he carries a knife in his 
pocket, like a peasant ! ' ' 

The hoar-frost was falling and they returned to Yon- 
ville. 

In the evening, Madame Bovary did not go to her 
neighbors ; and when Charles had departed, when she 
felt herself alone, the comparison recommenced in the 
clearness of a sensation almost immediate and with that 
lengthening of perspective which memory gives to 
objects. Contemplating from her bed the clear flame 



1 62 MADAME BOVARY 

burning, she saw again, as down there, Leon standing, 
bending with one hand his little switch and holding 
with the other Athalie who was tranquilly sucking a 
piece of ice. She found him charming ; she could not 
tear herself away from him ; she recalled his other atti- 
tudes on other days, phrases which he had spoken, the 
sound of his voice, his whole person ; and she repeated, 
extending her lips as if for a kiss : 

" Yes, charming ! charming ! Does he not love?" 

she asked herself. " Who then ? But it is I !" 

All the proofs at once displayed themselves, her heart 
bounded. The flame of the fireplace made a joyous 
light tremble on the ceiling ; she turned on her back 
and extended her arms. 

Then commenced the eternal lamentation : " Oh ! 
if Heaven had willed it ! Why is it not so ? Who 
prevented it then ? ' ' 

When Charles returned at midnight she seemed to 
awaken, and as he made a noise in undressing she com- 
plained of a headache, then asked nonchalantly what 
happened during the evening. 

"Monsieur Leon," he said, "went upstairs very 
early." 

She could not prevent herself from smiling and she 
went to sleep, her soul filled with a new enchantment. 

The next day as the night fell, she received the visit 
of the Sieur L'Heureux, dealer in novelties. He was a 
skilful man, this shopkeeper. 



PART SECOND 163 

Born a Gascon, but become a Norman, he doubled 
his meridional loquacity with the cunning of the coun- 
try Caux. His countenance, fat, soft and beardless, 
seemed stained by a decoction of clear licorice, and 
his white hair rendered still more striking the fierce 
light of his little black eyes. It was not known what he 
had been formerly, — pedlar, said some ; banker at Rou- 
tot, according to others. That which is certain is, that he 
made in his head complicated calculations that would 
frighten Binet himself. Polite to the extent of obse- 
quiousness, he always maintained an inclined attitude 
in the position of one who salutes or who invites. 

After having left at the door his hat, garnished with 
crape, he deposited on the table a green pasteboard 
box and commenced by complaining to madame, with 
very many civilities, of having remained until this day 
without having obtained her confidence. A poor shop 
like his was not calculated to attract an elegante ; he 
emphasized the word. Nevertheless, she had only to 
command and he would charge himself with furnishing 
her with whatever she might wish, mercery, or linen 
goods, hosiery or novelties, for he went to the city four 
times a month, regularly. He had connections with 
the greatest houses. You could speak of him at the 
Trots JFreres, at the Barbe d ' Or or at the Grand Sau- 
vage ; all those messieurs were acquainted with him 
like their own pockets ! To-day, then, he had come to 
show to madame, in passing by, some articles that he 



164 MADAME BOVARY 

happened to have, thanks to a very rare occasion ; and 
he drew out from the box a half dozen embroidered 
collars. 

Madame Bovary examined them. "I do not need 
anything," she said. 

Then Monsieur L'Heureux displayed very delicately 
three Algerian scarfs, several packages of English 
needles, a pair of straw slippers, and finally four egg 
cups made of cocoanuts, carved in openwork by the 
convicts. Then with his two hands on the table, his 
neck stretched, his body bent over, he followed, open- 
mouthed, Emma's look which wandered in an unde- 
cided manner over these goods. From time to time, as 
if to chase away the dust, he gave a scratch with his 
nail to the silk of the scarfs, unfolded at their full 
length ; and they trembled with a faint rustle, while in 
the greenish light of the twilight the gold spangles of 
their tissues scintillated like little stars. 

" How much do they cost?" 

"A mere trifle," he replied, "a mere trifle, but 
there is no hurry ; whenever you like ; we are not 
Jews." 

She reflected a few minutes and ended by thanking 
Monsieur L'Heureux, who replied unmoved: 

"Well ! we shall come to an understanding later; I 
always get on with the ladies ; even if I do not with 
my own, however ! ' ' 

Emma smiled. 



k. 






/3 

w 

(ft 

?-&gt; 

eg 

5* 



&lt;:» 



r. 












&lt;3 



.&lt;3 



u 






£ 



^ 



r. 






&lt;3 



^ 



^ 

« 



"55 
J3 






£ 



■&amp; 



R ^ 






"3 



EN 









PART SECOND 165 

"That is to say to you," he resumed with a good- 
natured air after his jest, "that it is not the money 

that worries me 1 will give it to you if it be 

necessary." 

She made a gesture of surprise. 

"Ah!" said he quickly and in a low voice, "I 
would not have to go far to find it for you, you may be 
sure ! ' ' And he began to ask concerning Pere Tellier, 
the master of the Cafe Francais, whom Monsieur 
Bo vary was then attending. " What is the matter with 

him, the Pere Tellier ? he coughs so that he shakes 

his whole house, and I am very much afraid that pretty 
soon he will need a pine overcoat rather than a flannel 
shirt. He led a very loose life when he was young ! 
Those people, madame, have no regulations at all ; he 
has burned himself up with brandy. But it is dis- 
agreeable, all the same, to see an acquaintance disap- 
pear. ' ' And whilst he was buckling up his box, he thus 
continued to discourse upon the doctor's patients. " It 
is the weather, doubtless," he said, looking at the win- 
dow with a grim visage, "which causes these sicknesses ! 
I, myself, I do not feel as easy as I should ; I shall have 
one of these days to come and consult monsieur for 
a pain which I have in the back. Well, au revoir, 
Madame Bovary ; at your orders ; your very humble 
servant. ' ' And he closed the door behind him softly. 

Emma caused her dinner to be served in her chamber 
at the corner of the fire, on a tea-tray ; she took a long 



166 MADAME BOVARY 

time to eat; everything seemed to her good. ''How 
wise I was !" she said to herself, thinking of the scarfs. 

She heard steps on the stairway ; it was Leon. She 
rose and took from the commode, among the dust- 
cloths to hem, the first of the pile. She seemed to be 
very much occupied when he appeared. 

The conversation was languishing, Madame Bovary 
abandoned it at every minute whilst he, himself, seemed 
as if embarrassed. Seated on a low chair, near the 
chimney-piece, he turned in his fingers the ivory case ; 
she plied her needle or, from time to time, with her 
nail stroked out the folds of the cloth. She did not 
speak ; he was silent, taken captive by her silence as he 
would have been by her words. 

" Poor boy !" she thought. 

" In what is it that I displease her?" he asked himself. 

Leon, however, ended by saying, that he should have 
one of these days to go to Rouen, for an affair of his 
office. 

"Your music subscription has expired, shall I renew 
it?" 

"No," she replied. 

"Why?" 

' ' Because ' ' And, compressing her lips, she drew 

out slowly a long needleful of gray thread. 

This work irritated Leon. It seemed to wear the 
skin off Emma's fingers, at the tips ; a gallant phrase 
came into his head, but he did not risk it. 



PART SECOND 167 

"You will give it up then?" he resumed. 

"What?" she said quickly, "music? Ah! Mon 
Dieu, yes ; have I not my housekeeping, my hus- 
band to take care of, a thousand things in fact, many 
duties more important ?' ' 

She looked at the clock. Charles was late. Then 
she became thoughtful. Two or three times even she 
repeated : " He is so good !" 

The clerk had an affection for Monsieur Bovary. 
But this tenderness towards him surprised him in a dis- 
agreeable way ; nevertheless, he continued his eulogium, 
which he made to everyone, he said, and above all to 
the apothecary. 

" Ah ! he is a worthy man," replied Emma. 

" Certainly," answered the clerk. 

And he commenced to speak of Madame Homais, 
whose very much neglected appearance usually furnished 
them matter for laughter. 

" What does that matter ?" interrupted Emma. " A 
good mother of a family does not worry herself about 
her toilet." Then she fell into her silence again. 

It was the same on the following day ; her language, 
her manners, everything had changed. She was seen 
to be taking her housekeeping very seriously, going to 
church regularly, and ruling her servant with more 
severity. 

She brought Berthe home from the nurse ; Felicite 
would bring her in when there were visitors, and 



l68 MADAME BOVARY 

Madame Bovary undressed her in order to show her 
little limbs. She declared that she adored children; 
they were her consolation, her joy, her folly, and she 
accompanied her caresses with lyric expansions which, 
to others than the Yonvillites, would have recalled the 
Sachette of Notre-Dame. 

When Charles came home, he would find his slippers 
warming before the fire. His waistcoats now were no 
longer without linings nor his shirts without buttons, 
and he even had the pleasure of contemplating in the 
wardrobe all the cotton night-caps arranged in equal 
piles. She no longer made objections as formerly to 
taking little turns in the garden ; what he proposed was 
always accepted, even when she did not understand the 
wishes to which she submitted without a murmur ; and 
when Leon saw him at the corner of the fire after din- 
ner, his two hands clasped on his stomach, his two feet 
on the andiron, his cheeks flushed with the process of 
digestion, his eyes humid with happiness, with the 
infant crawling about on the carpet and this woman 
with the slender figure, who over the back of his arm- 
chair, came to kiss him on the forehead, — "What 
folly!" he said to himself, "and how to attain to 
her?" 

She seemed to him then so virtuous and so inaccessi- 
ble, that all hope, even the vaguest, abandoned him. 

But, by this renunciation, he placed her in extraor- 
dinary conditions. For him she became disengaged 



PART SECOND 169 

from the fleshly qualities, of which he had nothing to 
obtain ; and she came into his heart, always rising and 
detaching herself from it, in the magnificent manner of 
an apotheosis which soars away. It was one of those 
pure sentiments which do not interfere with the active 
exercise of life, which we cultivate because they are 
rare, and the loss of which would be all the more afflict- 
ing that the possession does not bring rejoicing. 

Emma grew thinner ; her cheeks paled ; her face 
lengthened. With her black tresses, her great eyes, 
her straight nose, her walk like a bird's and always 
silent now, did she not seem to traverse existence as 
though scarcely touching it and to carry on her fore- 
head the vague imprint of some sublime predestina- 
tion? She was so sad and so calm, so gentle at the 
same time and so reserved, that those near her were 
affected by a glacial charm, as one shudders in churches 
under the perfume of flowers mingled with the cold of 
marble. Even others did not escape from this seduc- 
tion. The druggist said: "She is a woman of great 
powers and would not be out of place in a sub-prefec- 
ture. ' ' The bourgeois women admired her economy ; 
the patients, her politeness ; the poor, her charity. 

But she was full of covetousnesses, of rage and of 
hatred. This robe with straight folds covered an over- 
flowing heart, and these lips so modest did not reveal 
the torment. She was in love with Leon, and she 
sought solitude, in order to be able, more at her ease, 



170 MADAME BOVARY 

to delight herself in his image. The sight of his per- 
son troubled the voluptuousness of this meditation. 
Emma palpitated at the sound of his footsteps ; in his 
presence, the emotion subsided, and there remained 
to her only an immense astonishment which ended in 
sadness. 

Leon did not know when he issued despairing from 
her house that she rose after him in order to see him in 
the street. She was anxious about his goings and com- 
ings ; she studied his countenance ; she invented a 
whole history in order to find a pretext for visiting his 
chamber. The apothecary's wife seemed to her very 
happy to sleep under the same roof, and her thoughts 
continually settled down on that house like the pigeons 
of the Lion d' Or which came to refresh there in the 
rain gutters their little red feet and their white wings. 
The more Emma became sensible of her love, the more 
she suppressed it so that it might not appear, and in 
order to diminish it. She would have wished that Leon 
suspected it, and she imagined chances, catastrophes, 
which might have facilitated it. That which retained 
her, doubtless, was indolence or fear, and modesty also. 
She thought that she had repulsed him too far, that it 
was too late, that everything was lost. Then the pride, 
the joy, of saying to herself, "I am virtuous" and of 
looking at herself in the mirror, in taking resigned 
attitudes, consoled her a little for the sacrifice which 
she thought she was making. 



PART SECOND 171 

Then the appetites of the flesh, the covetousness of 
money and the melancholies of passion, all commingled 
in the same suffering; and instead of turning her 
thoughts away from it, she attached them to it all the 
more, exciting herself to pain, and seeking occasions 
for it everywhere. She was irritated at a dish badly 
served, or at a door left ajar, sighed for the velvet which 
she did not have, for the happiness which failed her, 
for her dreams too high, for her house too narrow. 

That which exasperated her, was that Charles had no 
appearance of suspecting her torture. The conviction 
in which he remained that he rendered her happy, 
seemed to her an imbecile insult, and his security upon 
this subject, ingratitude. For whom then did she 
remain virtuous ? Was he not, he, the obstacle to all 
happiness, the cause of all misery, and, as it were, the 
pointed tongue of the buckle of the complex bands 
with which she was enclosed on all sides ? 

Then she concentrated upon him alone the multi- 
tudinous hatred which resulted from her vexations ; 
and each effort to diminish it only served to augment 
it, for this useless pain added itself to the other motives 
of despair and contributed still more to the widening 
of the breach. Her own gentleness, in itself, caused 
her to rebel. The domestic mediocrity incited her to 
luxurious fancies, the matrimonial tendernesses to adul- 
terous desires. She would have wished that Charles beat 
her, so that she might the more justly detest him, avenge 



172 MADAME BOVARY 

herself on him. She was astonished herself sometimes 
at the atrocious conjectures which came into her mind 
and it was necessary to continue to smile, to hear it 
repeated that she was happy, to keep up the pretense 
of being so, to allow it to be believed ! 

She was disgusted, however, with this hypocrisy. 
Temptations assailed her to fly with Leon, somewhere, 
far away, to essay a new destiny ; but immediately there 
opened in her soul a vague gulf full of obscurity. 
"Moreover, he no longer loves me," she thought. 
"What is to become of me? what aid to look for, 
what consolation, what alleviation?" She remained 
broken, breathless, inert, sobbing in a low voice and 
with flowing tears. 

"Why not tell monsieur about it?" asked the servant 
of her, when she entered during these crises. 

"It is only nerves," replied Emma; " do not speak 
to him about it, you would worry him." 

"Ah, yes," replied Felicite; "you are just like La 
Guerinne, the daughter of Pere Guerin, the fisher of the 
Polet, whom I knew at Dieppe, before coming to you. 
She was so sad, so sad, that to see her standing in the 
doorway of her house, it had on you the effect of a 
funeral cloth stretched before the door. Her trouble, 
as it appeared, was a sort of mist that she had in her 
head, and the doctors could do nothing with it, nor the 
cure either. When that took her too strongly, she 
would go away all alone on the seashore, so that the 



PART SECOND 1 73 

lieutenant of the customs in going his rounds often 
found her lying on her face and weeping on the pebbles. 
After her marriage that passed away, it is said." 

"But I," replied Emma, "it is after marriage that 
mine has come to me." 



VI 



One evening when the window was opened, and 
when seated on the sill, she was looking at Lestibou- 
dois, the beadle, who was trimming the box-trees, she 
suddenly heard the Angelus ringing. 

It was at the commencement of April, when the prim- 
roses are opening; a warm wind blew over the culti- 
vated borders, and the gardens, like women, seemed to 
be making their toilets for the festivals of the summer. 
Through the slats of the arbor and in every direction 
beyond, the river could be seen in the meadow, in 
which it designed, through the grasa, wandering turn- 
ings and windings. The evening mist, rising between 
the leafless poplars, gave to their contours a violet tint, 
more pale and transparent than a subtle gauze caught in 
their branches. In the distance the cattle were going 
along ; neither their steps nor their lowings were heard ; 
and the bell still rang, continuing in the air its pacific 
lamentation. 



174 MADAME BOVARY 

At this repeated tolling, the thoughts of the young 
woman wandered away among her old souvenirs of 
youth and of the convent. She recalled the grand 
chandeliers which, on the altar, were taller than the 
vases full of flowers, and the tabernacle with little 
columns. She would have wished to have been, as for- 
merly, lost in the long line of white veils, marked, here 
and there, with black by the stiff hoods of the Good 
Sisters, inclining over their prie-dieus ; on Sundays, at 
the mass, when she lifted her head, she perceived the 
gentle visage of the Virgin among the bluish wreaths 
of incense which ascended. So that, now, a great 
commiseration took possession of her, she felt herself 
unprotected and completely abandoned, like the down 
from a bird's wing whirled about in the tempest ; and 
it was unconsciously that she took her way towards the 
church, disposed to no matter what devotion, provided 
that her heart was absorbed in it, and that existence 
disappeared in it entirely. 

She encountered, on the Place, Lestiboudois who was 
returning. For, not to cut short his day, he preferred 
to interrupt his task and then to take it up again ; so 
that he rang the Angelus according to his convenience. 
Moreover, the tolling served to notify, so much the 
sooner, the young boys of the hour of catechism. 

Already some of them who had arrived, were playing 
at marbles on the slabs of the cemetery. Others, astride 
on the wall, agitated their legs, mowing down with 



PART SECOND 175 

their sabots the tall nettles which grew between the 
little enclosure and the last tombs. It was the only 
place which was green ; all the rest was nothing but 
stone and continually covered with a fine dust, notwith- 
standing the sacristan's broom. 

The children, in their stockings, ran about there as 
though on a floor contrived for them, and the outbursts 
of their voices could be heard through the droning of 
the bell. It diminished with the oscillations of the 
great rope, which, falling from the height of the bell- 
tower, dragged on the ground at its end. The swallows 
passed backward and forward, uttering their little cries, 
cuttmg the air in their rapid flight and returning quickly 
to their yellow nests, under the tiles of the eaves. In 
the depths of the church a lamp was burning, that is 
to say a wick of a night-light in a hanging-glass. 
Its light, from a distance, seeming like a whitish 
spot which trembled over the oil. A long ray of 
sunlight traversed the whole nave and rendered still 
more sombre the depths of the side aisles and the 
angles. 

"Where is the cure?" asked Madame Bovary of a 
young boy who was amusing himself by shaking the 
turnstile in its hole, worn too large. 

" He is coming," he replied. 

In fact, the door of the cure's house creaked on its 
hinges, the Abbe Bournisien appeared; the children, 
pell-mell, fled into the church. 



176 MADAME BOVARY 

" Those rascals !" murmured the ecclesiastic, " always 
the same. And picking up the catechism in shreds 
which he had struck with his foot: "They respect 
nothing ! ' ' But as soon as he perceived Madame 
Bovary: "Excuse me," he said, "I did not recognize 
you." He thrust the catechism in his pocket and 
stopped, continuing to balance between two fingers the 
heavy key of the sacristy. , 

The light of the setting sun which struck full on his 
face made paler the smooth woolen stuff of his cassock, 
shining under the elbows, ravelled out at the bottom. 
Spots of grease and of tobacco followed down his large 
chest the line of little buttons and they became more 
numerous as they scattered from the band under his 
chin, in which the abundant folds of his red skin 
reposed; the latter was sown with yellowish spots 
which disappeared in the rough hairs of his grizzled 
beard. He had just dined and was breathing noisily. 

" How do you do?" he added. 

"Not well," replied Emma, "I am suffering." 

"Well ! I also," replied the ecclesiastic, "these first 
heats, is it not so ; they weaken you astonishingly ? 
But, what would you have? we are born to suffer, as 
St. Paul says. But, Monsieur Bovary, what does he 
think of it?" 

" He ! " she said with a gesture of contempt. 

" What ! " cried the goodman, quite astonished, "he 
does not prescribe anything for you ? ' ' 



$art Second adapter YW 



In fact, the door of the cure' s house creaked on its 
hinges, the Abbe Boumisien appeared; the children, 
pell-mell, fled into the church. 

"Those rascals /" murmured the ecclesiastic, "always 
the same." And picking up the catechism in shreds 
which he had struck with his foot: "They respect 
nothing/" But as soon as he perceived Madame 
B ovary : "Excuse me," he said, "/did not recognize 
you." He thrust the catechism in his pocket and 
stopped, continuing to balance between two fingers th. 
heavy key of the sacristy. 



PART SECOND 177 

"Ah ! " said Emma, "it is not earthly remedies that 
are required for me." 

But the cure, from time to time, looked into the 
church where all the boys, kneeling, were pushing each 
other with their shoulders and falling over like monks 
cut out of cardboard. 

" I would wish to know " she resumed. 

"Wait, just wait, Riboudet ! " cried the ecclesiastic, 
in a voice of anger, " I am coming to warm your ears, 
you young scamp ! ' ' Then, turning towards Emma : 
"It is a son of Boudet, the carpenter; his parents are 
comfortably off and let him do what he likes. How- 
ever, he learns quickly if he wants to, for he has 
plenty of sense. And I, sometimes, by way of a jest, 
I call him then Riboudet — like the hill that you take 
to go to Maromme — and I even say : mon Riboudet. 
Ah ! ah ! Mont-Riboudet ! The other day I repeated 
this to monseigneur who laughed at it. He deigned 

to laugh at it And Monsieur Bovary, how is 

he?" 

She did not seem to hear him. He continued : 
"Very busy all the time, doubtless? for we are cer- 
tainly, he and I, the two persons of the parish who 
have the most to do. But he, he is the physician of 
the bodies," he added, with a thick laugh, "and I, I 
am of the souls." 

She fixed upon the priest her supplicating eyes. 

" Yes " she said, " you relieve all pain." 



178 MADAME BOVARY 

"Ah! do not speak to me of it, Madame Bovary! 
this morning, even, I had to go down to the bottom 
of Diauville for a cow which had the swelling ; they 
believed that it was a spell of some kind. All their 

cows, I do not know how but, excuse me ! 

Longuemarre and Boudet ! sac a papier ! will you 
stop that ! ' ' And with a bound he rushed into the 
church. 

The boys at this time were crowding around the big 
reading desk, climbing upon the chorister's stool, open- 
ing the missal, and others, with stealthy steps, were 
even preparing to venture as far as the confessional. 
The cure suddenly distributed among them all a hail 
of cuffs. Seizing them by the collars of their vests, he 
lifted them from the floor and set them down again on 
both knees on the pavement of the choir, hard, as if he 
intended to plant them there. 

"Yes!" said he, when he returned to Emma, dis- 
playing his large handkerchief of printed calico, of 
which he took a corner between his teeth, " the agri- 
culturists are much to be pitied ! " 

"There are also others," she replied. 

"Assuredly! the workpeople in the great cities for 
example." 

"It is not they " 

" Pardon me ! I have known there poor mothers of 
families, virtuous wives, I assure you, veritable saints, 
who lacked even for bread. ' ' 



PART SECOND 179 

"But those," resumed Emma — and the corners of 
her mouth twisted as she spoke, — "those, Monsieur le 
Cure, who have bread and who have not ' ' 

" Fire in the winter? " said the priest. 

"Eh! what matter! " 

"How, what matter? it seems to me, for my part, 

that when one is well warmed and well nourished 

for, in fact ' ' 

" Mon Dieu ! Mon Dieu ! " she sighed. 

"You are not feeling well! " he said, coming for- 
ward with an inquiring air, "it is indigestion, doubt- 
less ? It would be well to go home, Madame Bovary, 
drink a little tea ; that will strengthen you ; or else a 
glass of fresh water with some brown sugar. ' ' 

" Why?" and she had the appearance of some one 
who was waking from a dream. 

" You pass your hand over your forehead. I thought 
that you had been taken with a dizziness." Then 
recollecting himself: " But you asked something of me. 
What is it then? I no longer know." 

" I ? nothing nothing " repeated Emma ; 

and her gaze, which was wandering around her, slowly 
lowered upon the old man in the cassock in front of her. 
They looked at each other, both of them, face to face, 
without speaking. 

"Then, Madame Bovary," said he, finally, "excuse 
me ! but duties before all, you know. It is necessary 
that I should expedite my good-for-nothings in there. 



l8o MADAME BOVARY 

Here are the first communions that are coming. They 
will surprise us yet before we are ready, I am afraid ! 
Thus, after Ascension, I keep them regidarly every 
Thursday an hour longer. Those poor children ! One 
would not know how to direct them too early in the 
way of the Lord, as, for that matter, He has recom- 
mended it to us Himself by the mouth of His Divine 
Son. Good health to you, madame, my respects to 
monsieur, your husband." And he went into the 
church, making a genuflection in the doorway. 

Emma saw him disappear between the double line of 
benches, walking with a heavy step, his head leaning a 
little on one shoulder, and with his two hands open and 
extended. 

Then she turned on her heels all at once, like a 
statue on a pivot, and took the road to her own house. 
But the heavy voice of the cure, the clear voice of the 
boys, still came to her ears, and continued behind her : 

"Are you a Christian?" 

"Yes, I am a Christian." 

"What is a Christian?" 

"It is one, who being baptized baptized 

baptized " 

She ascended the steps of her stairway, holding on 
to the rail, and when she was in her chamber she fell 
into an armchair. 

The pale light of the window-panes was diminishing 
gradually its undulations. The articles of furniture in 



PART SECOND 181 

their places seemed to become more motionless, and to 
lose themselves in the darkness as in an ocean of 
shadows. The fire in the chimney-place was just 
extinguished, the clock ticked regularly, and Emma 
was still, with a vague stupefaction at this calmness of 
things, while within her there were so many overturn- 
ings. But between the window and the work-table, the 
little Berthe was there, tottering in her little knitted 
boots, and endeavoring to approach her mother in 
order to seize the ends of the ribbons of her apron. 

" Eh ! let me be ! " said the latter, putting her away 
with her hand. 

Presently the little girl came again still closer, 
against her knee ; and leaning on it with her arms, she 
lifted towards her her big blue eyes, whilst a little 
stream of pure saliva flowed from her lip upon the silk 
of her apron. 

"Let me be ! " repeated the young wife, much irri- 
tated. Her countenance frightened the infant who 
began to cry. 

" Eh ! let me be then ! " she said, repulsing her with 
her elbow, and Berthe tumbled at the foot of the com- 
mode against the brass ornaments ; she cut her cheek 
upon it and the blood flowed. Madame Bovary rushed 
to pick her up, broke the bell-cord, called the servant 
with all her strength, and she was about to curse her- 
self, when Charles appeared. It was the dinner-hour ; 
he had just come in. 



1 82 MADAME BOVARY 

"Look here, my dear," said Emma to him in a 
tranquil voice ; " here is the little one who, in playing, 
has fallen on the ground and hurt herself. ' ' 

Charles reassured her ; the case was not serious and 
he went to get the diachylon. 

Madame Bovary would not go downstairs ; she 
wished to remain alone to take care of her child. As 
she watched it sleeping, the remnant of her disquietude 
disappeared gradually, and she seemed to herself very 
good and very stupid to have been troubled just now 
for so little. Berthe no longer sobbed. Her respira- 
tion lifted insensibly the cotton cover. Big tears were 
arrested in the corners of her half-closed eyelids, which 
allowed to be seen between the lashes, the pale and 
sunken eyeballs ; the sparadrap pasted on her cheek 
drew obliquely its tense skin. It is a strange thing, 
thought Emma, how ugly that child is. 

When Charles, at eleven o'clock, returned from the 
pharmacy — where he had been to return, after dinner, 
that which remained of the diachylon — he found his 
wife standing by the side of the cradle. 

"Since I assure you that it will be nothing," said 
he, kissing her on the forehead, "do not torment 
yourself, poor dear, you will make yourself sick ! " 

He had remained for a long time at the apothecary's. 
Although he had not shown himself to be much dis- 
turbed, Monsieur Homais, nevertheless, had made great 
efforts to encourage him, to brace up his mind. Then 



PART SECOND 183 

they had discussed the various dangers which menace 
infancy and the stupidity of servants. Madame 
Homais knew something about it, having still on her 
chest the marks of a panful of burning coals, which a 
cook had formerly allowed to fall into her frock. Thus 
her good parents had taken any quantity of precau- 
tions. The knives were never sharpened, nor the floors 
of the apartment waxed. There were at the windows 
open ironwork, and in the casings, strong bars. The 
little Homais, notwithstanding their independence, 
could not move without having a guardian behind 
them ; at the least cold their father stuffed them with 
pectoral syrups, and until they were four years of age 
and more, they wore, all of them, pitilessly, padded 
caps to protect their heads. This was, it is true, a 
mania of Madame Homais; her spouse was inwardly 
afflicted by it, fearing for the organs of the intellect, 
the possible results of such a compression, and he went 
so far as to say to her: "You intend then, to make of 
them Caribbees or Botocudos? " 

Charles, however, had endeavored several times to 
interrupt the conversation. " I have something to say 
to you, ' ' he had whispered softly in the ear of the clerk, 
who was walking in advance of him on the stairs. 

"Does he suspect anything?" asked Leon of him- 
self. His heart beat, and he lost himself in conjecture. 

Finally, Charles, having shut the door, entreated him 
to ascertain himself, at Rouen, what might be the price 



184 MADAME BOVARY 

of a fine daguerreotype ; this was a sentimental surprise 
which he was reserving for his wife, a delicate atten- 
tion, his portrait in a black coat. But he wished 
beforehand to know what to depend upon ; these investi- 
gations could not be embarrassing for Monsieur Leon 
since he went to the city almost every week. 

With what object? Homais suspected underneath 
it, some young man' s story, an intrigue. But he was 
deceived ; Leon was not pursuing any love affair. He 
was more melancholy than ever, and Madame Lefran- 
cois readily perceived it by the quantity of food that 
he now left on his plate. In order to know more about 
it, she interrogated the collector; Binet replied in a 
rough tone that he was not paid by the police. 

His comrade, however, seemed to him very singular ; 
for often Leon threw himself back in his chair in open- 
ing his arms, and complained vaguely of existence. 

"It is because you do not have enough diversion," 
said the collector. 

"Of what kind?" 

"I, in your place, I would have a lathe ! " 

" But I do not know how to turn," replied the clerk. 

' ' Oh ! that is true ! ' ' said the other, caressing his 
jaw with an air of disdain mingled with satisfaction. 

Leon was weary of loving without results. Then he 
was beginning to feel that depression which the repeti- 
tion of the same life causes you, when no interest 
directs it and no hope sustains it. He was so weary of 



PART SECOND 185 

Yonville and of the Yonvillites, that the sight of cer- 
tain people, of certain houses, irritated him beyond 
endurance ; and the apothecary, however good-natured 
he might be, became to him insupportable. However, 
the prospects of a new situation frightened him as 
much as it seduced him. 

But this apprehension was quickly turned into impa- 
tience, and Paris then began to agitate for him in the dis- 
tance the fanfaron of her masked balls with the laughter 
of her grisettes. Since he had terminated his law 
studies, why did he not depart ? Who prevented him ? 
And he began to make inward preparations; he 
arranged in advance his occupations. He furnished in 
his head an apartment. He would lead there the life 
of an artist ! He would take there guitar lessons ! He 
would have a dressing-robe, a Basque knitted cap with 
a tuft in the middle, slippers of blue velvet ! And he 
even admired already on his chimney-piece two foils 
crossed with a skull and the guitar above. 

The difficult thing was his mother's consent ; nothing, 
however, seemed more reasonable. His employer even 
advised him to take up another line of studies, in which 
he might be able to develop himself more. Taking then 
a middle path, Leon endeavored fro find a position as 
second clerk in Rouen, did not find any, and finally 
wrote to his mother a long detailed letter in which he 
set out the reasons for going to live in Paris immediately. 

She consented. 



1 86 MADAME BOVARY 

He did not hasten in the least, however. Each day, 
during a whole month, Hivert transported for him from 
Yonville to Rouen, from Rouen to Yonville, trunks, 
valises, packages ; and when Leon had replenished his 
wardrobe, had his three easy-chairs stuffed again, laid 
in a provision of silk handkerchiefs, in a word, made 
more arrangements than for a journey around the 
world, he postponed it from week to week until he 
received a second maternal letter in which he was 
urged to depart since he wished to pass his examina- 
tions before the vacation. 

When the moment was come for the embraces, Ma- 
dame Homais wept ; Justin sobbed ; Homais, like a 
strong man, concealed his emotion ; he wished to carry 
his friend's overcoat as far as the gate of the notary 
who was going to take Leon to Rouen in his carriage. 
The latter had just the time to make his adieu to Mon- 
sieur Bovary. 

When he was at the top of the stairway, he stopped, 
so much was he out of breath. At his entrance, 
Madame Bovary rose quickly. 

" It is I again ! " said Leon. 

' ' I was sure of it ! " 

She bit her lips, and a wave of blood flowing under 
her skin colored her all in pink, from the roots of her 
hair to the edge of her collarette. She remained 
standing, leaning her shoulder against the woodwork. 

" Monsieur is not then about? " he went on. 



PART SECOND 187 

" He is absent." She repeated : " he is absent." 

Then there was a silence. They looked at each 
other, and their thoughts, confounded in the same 
anguish, strained closer together like two palpitating 
bosoms. 

" I should much like to kiss Berthe," said Leon. 

Emma descended a few steps and called Felicite. 

He threw quickly around him a comprehensive 
glance which wandered over the walls, the etageres, 
the chimney, as if to penetrate all, to carry all away 
with him. She returned, and the servant brought in 
Berthe, who was shaking at the end of a string a wind- 
mill upside down. 

Leon kissed her on the neck, several times. 

" Good -bye, poor child; good-bye, little dear, 
good-bye ! ' ' 

And he returned her to her mother. 

"Take her away," said the latter. 

They remained alone. 

Madame Bovary, with her back turned had her face 
pressed against the window-pane ; Leon held his cap in 
his hand and beat it gently against his thigh. 

"It is going to rain," said Emma. 

" I have a cloak," he replied. 

"Ah!" 

She turned, her chin lowered, her forehead advanced. 
The light danced on it as on marble as far as the curve 
of the eyebrows, without revealing what Emma was 



1 88 MADAME BOVARY 

looking at on the horizon, nor of what she was thinking 
in the depths of herself. 

"Well, adieu," he sighed. 

She lifted her head with a quick movement. 

" Yes, adieu ; you must go ! " 

They advanced toward each other; he offered his 
hand ; she hesitated. 

" In the English fashion, then," she said, abandoning 
her own, making an effort to laugh. Leon felt it between 
his fingers ; and the very substance of his entire being 
seemed to him to descend into this humid palm. 

Then he opened his hand ; their eyes met once more, 
and he disappeared. 

When he was under the market sheds, he stopped ; 
and he hid himself behind a pillar in order to contem- 
plate for the last time this white house with its four 
green blinds. He thought he saw a shadow behind the 
window in the chamber ; but the curtain, detaching itself 
from the clasp as if no one touched it, moved slowly its 
long oblique folds, which displayed themselves with one 
motion, and it remained hanging straight, more motion- 
less than a plastered wall. Leon began to run. 

He perceived in the distance, on the road, the cabrio- 
let of his employer and beside it a man in hempen apron, 
who held the horse. Homais and Monsieur Guillaumin 
were talking together. They were waiting for him. 

"Embrace me," said the apothecary, with tears in 
his eyes; "here is your overcoat, my good friend; 






PART SECOND 189 

beware of the cold ; take care of yourself ; look out 
for yourself! " 

" Come, Leon, get into the carriage," said the notary. 

Homais leaned over the mudguard, and with a voice 
broken by sobs, uttered these two sorrowful words : 
" Bon voyage ! " 

"Good-afternoon," replied Monsieur Guillaumin. 
"Let go!" 

They departed and Homais returned. 

Madame Bovary had opened her window on the 
garden, and she looked at the clouds. 

They were piling up in the west in the direction of 
Rouen and rolling quickly their dark volutes, from 
behind which extended the great lines of the sun, like 
the golden arrows of a suspended trophy, whilst all the 
rest of the empty heaven had the whiteness of porce- 
lain. But a sudden gust of wind made the poplars 
bow, and all at once the rain fell ; it pattered softly 
on the green leaves. Then the sun reappeared, the 
chickens cackled ; the sparrows flapped their wings in 
the wet bushes and the pools of water on the sand car- 
ried away with them, as they flowed, the pink flowers 
of an acacia. 

" Ah ! he must be already far away !" she thought. 

Monsieur Homais, as usual came at half-past six, 
during the dinner. 

"Well!" said he, taking his seat, "we have sent 
off, a little while ago, our young man? " 



190 MADAME BOVARY 

"So it seems ! " replied the doctor. Then, turning 
in his chair, "And what is there new with you? " 

"Nothing much. My wife only was somewhat 
stirred up this afternoon. You know the women ! a 
nothing troubles them ! mine especially ! And it would 
be wrong to rebel against this, since their nervous 
organization is much more impressionable than ours." 

"That poor Leon," said Charles, "how is he going 
to live in Paris ? will he become accustomed to it ? " 

Madame Bovary sighed. 

' ' Come now, ' ' said the apothecary, clicking his tongue, 
"the fine parties at the eating-houses ! the masked balls ! 
the champagne ! all that goes along, I assure you ! ' ' 

"I do not think that he will alter his habits," 
objected Bovary. 

"Nor I," said Monsieur Homais quickly, "although 
it will be necessary for him, however, to follow the 
others, at the risk of being taken for a Jesuit. And 
you do not know the life that those droll fellows live in 
the Latin Quarter with the actresses ! For the rest, the 
students are very well looked upon in Paris. Whatever 
little talent they may have for making themselves agree- 
able, they are received in the best society and there are 
even ladies of the Faubourg Saint-Germain who fall in 
love with them, which gives them an opportunity, con- 
sequently, to make very fine marriages. ' ' 

"But," said the doctor, "lam afraid for him 

that down there ' ' 



PART SECOND 191 

" You are right," interrupted the apothecary, "that 
is the reverse of the medal ; and one is there obliged 
continually to have his hand on his pocket. Thus, 
you are in a public garden, I will suppose; a certain 
person presents himself, very well dressed, decorated 
even, and who would be taken for a diplomat ; he 
accosts you, you converse, he is insinuating, offers you 
a pinch of snuff or picks up your hat for you. Then 
you become more intimate still ; he takes you to a 
cafe, he asks you to come and see his country-house, 
brings in to you between two wines, all sorts of 
acquaintances, and three-quarters of the time, it is 
only to filibuster your purse, or to lead you into some 
pernicious enterprises." 

"That is true," replied Charles; "but I was think- 
ing above all of the sicknesses, typhoid fever, for exam- 
ple, which attacks the students from the provinces. ' ' 

Emma shuddered. 

" Because of the change of regimen," continued the 
apothecary, "and the perturbation which results from 
it in the general economy. And then, the water of 
Paris, do you see ! the dishes at the restaurant ! all 
these spiced nourishments end by heating your blood 
and are not worth, whatever may be said, a good pot- 
au-feu. I have always, for my part, preferred the 
bourgeois cuisine : it is more wholesome ! Thus, when 
I was studying pharmacy in Rouen, I was boarding in 
a boarding-house ; I ate with the professors. ' ' 



192 MADAME BOVARY 

And he then continued to set forth his general opin- 
ions and his personal sympathies, until Justin came to 
look for him to make up a preparation of yolk of egg, 
sugar and water which was wanted. 

"Not an instant of respite," he cried, "always 
chained ! I cannot go out a minute ! You have to 
sweat blood and water like a work-horse ! What a 
yoke of misery ! ' ' 

Then, when he was on the doorstep : 

"Apropos," he said, "do you know the news?" 

"What is it?" 

"It is, that it is very probable," replied Homais, 
elevating his eyebrows and assuming his most serious 
countenance, "that the agricultural fair of the Seine- 
Inferieure will be held this year at Yonville-l'Abbaye. 
The rumor, at least, is circulating. This morning, the 
journal had something to say about it. This will be of 
the utmost importance in our arrondissement. But we 
will talk about it later. I will see about it; thank 
you ; Justin has the lantern. ' ' 



VII 



The following day was, for Emma, a funereal period. 
To her everything seemed enveloped in an atmosphere 
of blackness, which floated confusedly over the exterior 



PART SECOND 193 

of all things ; and melancholy sank deep into her soul 
with long lamentations, like the wind of winter in 
abandoned chateaux. It was that revery into which one 
sinks over that which will not return, the weariness 
which takes possession of one after each accomplished 
fact, that sorrow, in short, which is brought to one by 
the interruption of every accustomed movement, the 
brusque cessation of a prolonged vibration. 

As on her return from the Vaubyessard, with the 
quadrille still revolving in her head, she was a prey 
to a dull melancholy, a benumbing despair. Leon 
reappeared to her taller, handsomer, more suave, more 
vague ; he was as numerous in himself as a crowd, in 
him the fulness of luxury and of excitement. But she 
had not trembled so strongly at the recollections of the 
silver vessels and the pearl-handled knives, as she did 
in recalling the laughter in his voice and the row of his 
white teeth. Conversations returned to her memory, 
more melodious and penetrating than the warble of 
flutes, than the harmony of the brasses; the looks 
which she had surprised emitted little sparks of light, 
like the crystals of the chandelier, and the odor of his 
hair and the softness of his breath filled her lungs more 
pleasantly than the atmosphere of greenhouses, than 
the perfume of magnolias. Although he was separated 
from her he had not left her ; he was still there and the 
walls of the house seemed to guard his shadow. She 
could not take her eyes from that carpet on which he 



194 MADAME BOVARY 

had walked, nor the empty pieces of furniture in which 
he had seated himself. The river still flowed on, and 
rolled its little waves slowly along the smooth shore. 
They had walked there so many times, listening to the 
same murmuring waves, on the pebbles covered with 
moss. What good sunshines they had had ! what good 
afternoons, alone, in the shadow, at the bottom of the 
garden ! He read aloud with head bare, seated on a 
stool of dried sticks ; the fresh wind of the meadow 
shook the leaves of the book and the nasturtiums of the 

bower. Ah ! he had departed, the sole charm of 

her life, the sole possible hope of a felicity ! How was 
it that she had not seized that happiness when it pre- 
sented itself? Why had she not retained it with both 
hands, on both knees, when it wished to fly away? 
And she cursed herself for not having loved Leon ; she 
was thirsty for his lips. The desire took possession of 
her to hasten to rejoin him, to throw herself in his 
arms, to say to him: "It is I! I am yours!" But 
Emma perplexed herself in advance with the difficulties 
of this undertaking, and her desires, augmented by a 
regret, did not become any less active. 

From this time, this remembrance of Leon was, as it 
were, the centre of her weariness ; it sparkled there 
more brilliantly than does, in a Russian steppe, a 
traveler's camp-fire abandoned on the snow; she 
pressed toward it, she shrunk close up to it ; she stirred 
up delicately this hearth-fire on the point of being 



PART SECOND 195 

extinguished, she went searching all around her for that 
which could revive it again — and the most distant 
reminiscences in common with the most recent occa- 
sions, that which she had experienced with that 
which she had imagined, her voluptuous desires which 
dispersed themselves, her projects of happiness which 
snapped off in the wind like dead branches, her sterile 
virtue, her fallen hopes, her household litter, she gath- 
ered up all, took all, and made use of all, to keep her 
satin ess warm. 

However, the flames died down, whether it was that 
the provision of herself, which she furnished became 
diminished, or that the piling-up of material was too 
considerable. Love, little by little, became extin- 
guished by absence ; regret was smothered under 
custom ; and that light of conflagration which irradi- 
ated her pale sky, became covered with a greater 
shadow and went out by degrees. In the lulling of her 
conscience, she even took the repugnance toward her 
husband for aspirations toward the lover, the burnings 
of hatred for the rewarming of tenderness ; but as the 
storm blew all ways, and as passion consumed itself to 
the ashes, and as no succor came, as no sun appeared, 
there was on all sides complete night, and she remained 
lost in her horrible cold which penetrated quite through 
her. 

Then the evil days of Tostes recommenced. She 
considered herself at present much more unhappy, for 



196 MADAME BOVARY 

she had experience in grief, with the certainty that it 
would not end. 

A woman who had imposed upon herself such great 
sacrifices could very well dispense with fancies. She 
purchased a Gothic prie-dieu, and she spent in a month 
fourteen francs for lemons with which to clean her 
nails ; she wrote to Rouen for a dress in blue cashmere ; 
she selected the finest of the L'Heureux scarfs; she 
tied it around her waist over her dressing-gown ; and, 
with the shutters closed, with a book in her hand, she 
remained lying upon the couch in this array. 

Sometimes she varied the dressing of her hair ; she 
arranged it in Chinese fashion, in soft curls, in plaited 
tresses ; she parted it on the side of her head, and 
rolled her hair under like a man. 

She wished to learn Italian ; she bought dictionaries, 
a grammar, a provision of white paper. She undertook 
serious readings, history and philosophy. Sometimes 
in the night Charles woke up suddenly, thinking that 
some one had come to him for a sick person : " I am 
coming," he stammered; and it was the noise of a 
match which Emma struck to light the lamp. But it 
was with her readings as with her tapestries, which, all 
of them commenced, encumbered her wardrobe ; she 
took them up, dropped them, passed on to others. 

She had fits occasionally in which she could have 
readily been incited to extravagances. She sustained 
one day against her husband that she could perfectly 



PART SECOND 197 

well drink a full wine glass of brandy ; and as Charles 
had the stupidity to dare her to it, she swallowed the 
brandy to the last drop. 

Notwithstanding her evaporated airs — this was the 
word used by the bourgeois of Yonville — Emma, how- 
ever, did not appear cheerful, and she habitually kept 
at the corners of her mouth that motionless contraction 
which creases the countenances of old maids and of the 
disappointed in their ambitions. She was quite pale, 
white as linen ; the skin of her nose was stretched at 
the nostrils, her eyes looked at you in a vague manner. 
For having discovered three gray hairs on her temples, 
she talked continually of her aging. Frequently she 
was seized with fainting fits. One day she even had a 
spitting of blood, and as Charles was agitated, allowing 
his anxiety to be perceived : 

"Ah ! bah !" she replied, " what does that amount 
to?" 

Charles took refuge in his cabinet ; and he wept, his 
two elbows on the table, seated in his office chair, under 
the phrenological head. 

Then he wrote to his mother to entreat her to come 
and they had long conferences together on the subject 
of Emma. 

What solution to find ? what to do, since she refused 
all treatment ? 

" Do you know what your wife needs ?" summed up 
the Mere Bovary, " it is compulsory occupation, manual 



198 MADAME BOVARY 

labor ! If she were, like so many others, compelled to 
earn her own living, she would not have these vapors, 
which come from a heap of notions which she has in 
her head and from the idleness in which she lives." 

"But, she occupies herself," said Charles. 

"Ah! she occupies herself! In what, pray? In 
reading novels, bad books, works which are against 
religion and in which the priests are derided in dis- 
courses taken from Voltaire. But all that goes a great 
way, my poor child, and any one who has no religion 
always ends by turning out badly." 

Therefore, it was resolved that Emma should be pre- 
vented from reading any more novels. The undertak- 
ing did not seem easy. The good lady charged herself 
with it ; she would, as she passed through Rouen, go in 
person to the proprietor of the circulating library and 
inform him that Emma had stopped her subscription. 
Would one not have the right to notify the police if 
the publisher persisted, in spite of everything, in his 
avocation of a poisoner ? 

The farewells of the mother-in-law and the daughter- 
in-law were curt. During the three weeks in which 
they had been together, they had not exchanged four 
words with each other, outside the necessary informa- 
tion and compliments when they met at table, and in 
the evening before retiring. 

Madame Bovary mere departed on a Wednesday, 
which was market day in Yonville. 



PART SECOND 1 99 

The Place, since the morning, had been encumbered 
by a row of carts which, all with their tails down and 
their shafts in the air, ranged along the fronts of the 
houses from the church to the inn. 

On the other side, there were canvas sheds in which 
there were offered for sale cotton goods, coverings and 
stockings of wool, with halters for the horses and 
packets of blue ribbons, the ends of which fluttered in 
the wind. Articles of coarse hardware were displayed 
upon the ground between pyramids of eggs and little 
willow baskets of cheese in which were stuck glutinous 
straws ; by the side of the grain machines, the chickens, 
clucking in their flat cages, passed their heads through 
the open spaces. The crowd, concentrating in one 
point without wishing to move, threatened sometimes 
to break in the front windows of the pharmacy. On 
Wednesdays it never emptied, and the crush was less 
to buy medicines than to ask for consultations, so great 
was the reputation of the Sieur Homais in the circum- 
jacent villages. His robust assurance had fascinated 
the country-people. They considered him as a much 
greater doctor than all the doctors. 

Emma was leaning on her window-sill — she often sat 
there ; the window in the provinces takes the place of 
the theatre and the promenade — and she was amusing 
herself by looking at the throng of rustics, when she 
perceived a gentleman wearing a frock coat of green 
velvet. He was gloved with yellow gloves, although on 



200 MADAME BOVARY 

his legs were strong gaiters, and he was coming towards 
the doctor's house followed by a peasant walking with 
his head down and with a very thoughtful air. 

" Can I see monsieur?" he asked of Justin, who was 
talking on the threshold with Felicite ; taking him for 
the domestic of the house : " Say to him that Monsieur 
Rodolphe Boulanger, of La Huchette is here. ' ' 

It was not through territorial vanity that the new 
arrival had added the particle to his name, but in order 
to make himself better known. La Huchette, in fact, 
was a domain near Yonville of which he had recently 
acquired the chateau with two farms which he cultivated 
himself, without troubling himself too much, however. 
He lived as a bachelor and passed for having at least 
fifteen thousand francs income ! 

Charles entered the hall. Monsieur Boulanger pre- 
sented his man, who wished to be bled, because he felt 
ants all over his body. 

"That will purge me," he objected to all remon- 
strances. 

Bovary accordingly ordered a basin and a bandage 
to be brought, and asked Justin to hold it. Then, 
addressing the villager, already white : 

" Do not be afraid, my brave fellow ! " 

"No, no," replied the other, "go ahead ! " 

And, with a bravado air, he extended his great arm. 
Under the stroke of the lancet, the blood spurted and 
splashed against the glass. 



PART SECOND 201 

"Bring the basin nearer," said Charles. 

"Guefte/" said the peasant, "one would swear it 
was a little running fountain ! What red blood I have ! 
that ought to be a good sign, isn't it? " 

"Sometimes," replied the officier de Sante, "noth- 
ing is felt at the beginning, then the syncope manifests 
itself, and more particularly in the case of people with 
good constitutions, like this one." 

The countryman at these words let go the sheath 
which he was turning between his fingers. A shrug 
of his shoulders made the back of his chair crack. His 
hat fell to the floor. 

"I thought so," said Bo vary, putting his finger on 
the vein. 

The basin commenced to tremble in Justin's hands ; 
his knees tottered ; he turned pale. 

"Wife, wife," called Charles. 

She descended the stairs with a bound. 

" Some vinegar ! " he cried. "Ah ! Mon Dieu ! two 
at once ! " 

And, in his emotion, he could scarcely arrange the 
compress. 

"That is nothing," said Monsieur Boulanger, very 
tranquilly, while he took Justin in his arms. 

And he seated himself on the table, supporting his 
back against the wall. 

Madame Bovary commenced to take off his cravat. 
There was a knot in the cords of his shirt ; she was 



202 MADAME BOVARY 

some minutes moving her slender fingers in the neck of 
the young man ; then she poured the vinegar in her 
cambric handkerchief ; she moistened his temples with 
it with little taps and she blew upon them, delicately. 

The carter came to his senses ; but Justin's syncope 
still lasted, and his eyeballs disappeared in their pale 
sclerotic, like blue flowers in milk. 

"We must hide this from him," said Charles. 

Madame Bovary took the basin. In putting it under 
the table, the movement which she made in stooping, 
caused her dress — it was a summer dress with four 
flounces, yellow in color, long in the waist, large in 
the skirt — to spread around her on the tiled floor of 
the hall ; and as Emma, stooping, staggered a little, 
spreading out her arms, the swelling of the material 
hollowed itself in certain places, following the inflec- 
tions of her figure. Finally, she went to get a carafe 
of water, and she had melted pieces of sugar in it 
when the apothecary arrived. The maidservant had 
gone to get him during the uproar; and, perceiving 
his pupil with his eyes open, he took breath ; then 
taking a turn around him he looked at him from top to 
bottom. 

"Sot!" he said; "little sot, truly! sot in three 
letters ! A great thing, after all, phlebotomy ! and a 
fine fellow who is afraid of nothing ! a species of 
squirrel, such as you see, who climbs up to get nuts 
at the most dizzy heights ! Ah ! yes, speak, brag of 



PART SECOND 203 

yourself! here are fine qualities for the practice of 
pharmacy later ! For you may find yourself in grave 
circumstances before the Courts, called in to enlighten 
the conscience of the magistrates; and it will be 
necessary, then, to keep possession of yourself, to 
reason, to show yourself a man, or else to pass for 
an imbecile ! " 

Justin did not reply. The apothecary continued : 

"Who asked you to come here? You are always in 
the way of monsieur and madame ! On Wednesdays, 
moreover, your services are more than indispensable to 
me ! There are now twenty people in the shop, I have 
left everything because of the interest which I have in 
you ! Come, be off ! run ! wait for me and look after 
the bottles." 

When Justin, who had dressed himself, had departed, 
the conversation turned for a moment on fainting fits. 
Madame Bo vary had never had one. 

"That is extraordinary for a lady! " said Monsieur 
Boulanger. " For that matter there are some people 
very delicate. Thus I have seen at a meeting, a wit- 
ness lose consciousness at nothing but the noise of the 
pistols which were being loaded." 

She lifted to him eyes full of admiration. 

" For my part," said the apothecary, "the sight of 
others' blood has no effect on me at all ; but the 
thought only of my own flowing would suffice to give 
me swoonings, if I thought of it too much." 



204 MADAME BOVARY 

However, Monsieur Boulanger sent away his servant, 
advising him to make his mind easy, since his fancy had 
passed. "It has procured me the advantage of your 
acquaintance," he added. And he looked at Emma 
during this phrase. 

Then he placed three francs on the corner of the 
table, bowed carelessly and went away. 

He was soon on the other side of the river — this was 
his road to return to La Huchette, — and Emma per- 
ceived him in the meadow, walking along under the 
poplars slacking his pace from time to time, like one 
who was meditating. 

"She is very nice ! " he said to himself; "she is 
very nice, that doctor's wife ! Fine teeth, black eyes, 
a coquettish foot and the style of a Parisienne ! Where 
the devil does she come from ? Where then did he find 
her, that great hulking fellow ? ' ' 

Monsieur Boulanger was thirty-four years old ; he 
was by temperament coarse and of a perspicacious 
intelligence, having moreover had much to do with 
women and knowing them very well. This one had 
seemed to him pretty ; he was then thinking of her and 
of her husband. 

" I believe him to be very stupid. She is tired of 
him, doubtless. What a boor ! he has dirty finger nails 
and a three days' beard. Whilst he goes about after 
his sick people, she stays at home to mend his stockings ! 
And one bores one's self! one wishes to live in the 



PART SECOND 205 

city, to dance the polka every evening ! Poor little 
woman ! It gapes after love like a carp on a kitchen 
table after the water. With three words of gallantry it 
would adore you, I'm sure of it ! it would be tender ! 
charming ! Yes, and how to get rid of it afterwards ! ' ' 

Then the inconvenience of the pleasure seen in 
advance caused him by contrast to think of his mis- 
tress. This was an actress of Rouen whom he sup- 
ported ; and when he had fixed his mind on this image 
of which he had, even in recollection, surfeitings, — 
"Ah! Madame Bovary," he thought, "is much pret- 
tier than she is, much fresher above all ! Virginie, 
decidedly, is beginning to get too fat ! She is so fas- 
tidious with her pleasures ! And besides, what a mania 
for prawns ! ' ' 

The country was deserted and Rodolphe heard around 
him nothing but the regular beating of the tall grasses, 
whipping against his gaiters, with the cry of the crickets 
crouching in the distance under the oats ; he saw Emma 
again in the hall, dressed as he had seen her, and he 
undressed her. 

" Oh ! I shall have her ! " he cried to himself, crush- 
ing with a blow of his stick a clod of earth before him. 
And then immediately he examined the politic side of 
the enterprise. He asked himself: "Where to meet 
her? by what means? One would have continually 
the child on one's hands, and the servant, the neigh- 
bors, the husband, all sorts of very considerable tricks ! 



206 MADAME BOVARY 

Ah ! bah ! " he said, " it would take too much time ! " 
Then he recommenced: "And she has eyes which 
bore into your heart like drills ! And that pale com- 
plexion ! I who adore pale women ! ' ' 

On top of the hill of Argueil, his resolution was 
taken. " There is nothing left to do but to seek the 
opportunity. Well ! I will go there sometimes, I will 
send them presents of game, of chickens ! I will have 
myself bled, if it be necessary ; we will become friends, 

I will invite them to my house Ah ! parbleu ! " he 

added, "here is the fair coming pretty soon ; she will 
be there, I will see her. We will commence, and 
boldly, for that is the surest way ! ' ' 



VIII 

It came in fact, this famous fair ! On the morning 
of the solemnity, all the inhabitants on their doorsteps 
discussed the preparations with each other ; the front of 
the mayor's office had been garlanded with ivy ; a tent 
in a field had been erected for the festival, and in the 
middle of the Place, before the church, a species of 
mortar was to signal the arrival of Monsieur le Prefet 
and the names of the agriculturist prize winners. The 
National Guard of Buchy — there was none at Yonville 
— had come to join the corps of firemen, of whom 



PART SECOND 207 

Binet was the captain. He wore this day a collar still 
higher than usual, and, belted in his tunic, his bust was 
so stiff and motionless that all the vital part of his per- 
son seemed to have descended into his two legs, which 
rose alternately in time, marking step, with one move- 
ment for each. As a rivalry subsisted between the col- 
lector and the colonel, each of them, to display his 
talents, manoeuvred his men apart. There could be 
seen, alternately passing and repassing, the red epaulets 
and the black plastrons. This never finished, and for- 
ever recommenced ! Never had there been such a dis- 
play of pomp ! Several of the bourgeois, on the day 
before, had washed down their houses ; tricolored flags 
hung from the half-open windows, all the cabarets were 
full ; and in the fine weather the starched bonnets, the 
gold crosses, and the fichus, of a color which seemed 
whiter than snow, reflected the clear sunshine, and lit 
up with their scattered medley the sombre monotony 
of the frock-coats and of the blue blouses. The farmers' 
wives of the neighborhood, on descending from their 
horses, withdrew the great pin which retained around 
their body their dress turned up for fear of spots ; and 
the husbands, on the contrary, in order to keep on 
their hats, kept their pocket handkerchiefs over them, 
holding one corner between their teeth. 

The crowd arrived in the main street from the two 
ends of the village. It poured out from the little 
streets, the alleys, the houses, and there could be heard 



208 MADAME BOVARY 

from time to time, the knockers of the doors falling 
behind the bourgeois in thread gloves who had come 
out to see the fete. That which was especially admired 
was two long triangular wooden constructions bearing 
lamps which flanked the platform on which the author- 
ities were to be placed ; and there was, moreover, 
against the four columns of the mayor's house, four 
species of poles which bore, each one, a little standard 
of greenish canvas enriched with inscriptions in letters of 
gold. On the first could be read: "To Commerce;" 
on another: "To Agriculture;" on the third: "To 
Industry ;" and on the fourth : "To the Fine Arts." 

But the jubilation which irradiated all the villagers 
seemed to sadden Madame Lefran^ois. Standing on 
the steps of her kitchen, she murmured in her chin : 

"What stupidity ! what stupidity with their barracks 
of canvas ! Do they think that the prefect will be com- 
fortable dining down there under a tent like a circus 
tumbler? They call that sort of thing, working for the 
good of the country ! It was not worth the trouble, 
then, to go and get a cheap cook at Neufchatel ! and for 
whom? for cowherds ! barefooted beggars ! " 

The apothecary passed by. He wore a black coat, 
nankeen pantaloons, beaver shoes and, what was extra- 
ordinary, a hat, — a hat low in form. 

"Your servant!" he said, "excuse me, I am in a 
hurry;" and as the stout widow asked him where he 
was going : 



PART SECOND 209 

"That seems strange to you, does it not? I, who 
always remain confined in my laboratory more than the 
rat of the goodman in his cheese." 

"What cheese?" said the innkeeper. 

"No. Nothing! it is nothing!" replied Homais. 
"I only wished to explain to you, Madame Lefran- 
cois, that I remain habitually quite like a recluse in my 
own house. To-day, however, considering the circum- 
stances, it is quite necessary that ' ' 

"Ah! you're going down there ! " she said with an 
air of disdain. 

"Yes, I'm going there," replied the apothecary, 
surprised. "Am I not a member of the consultative 
commission? " 

The Mere Lefrancois considered him for some minutes 
and ended by replying, smiling : 

" That is another thing ! but what has agriculture to 
do with you ? are you interested in it then ? ' ' 

" Certainly I'm interested in it, since I am a pharma- 
cist, that is to say, chemist ! and chemistry, Madame 
Lefrancois, having for its object the knowledge of the 
reciprocal and molecular action of all the bodies in 
nature, it follows that agriculture is comprised in its 
domain ! And, in fact, composition of fertilizers, fer- 
mentation of liquids, analysis of gas and influence of 
miasmas, what is all that I ask you if it is not chemistry, 
pure and simple ? ' ' 

The innkeeper made no reply. Homais continued : 



210 MADAME BOVARY 

" Do you think that it is necessary, in order to be 
an agriculturist, to have cultivated the ground your- 
self or fattened chickens? It is necessary, rather, to 
be acquainted with the constitution of the substances 
with which it is concerned, the geological strata, the 
atmospheric actions, the nature of the soils, of the 
minerals, of the waters, the density of the different 
bodies and their capillarity ; I know not what ! and it 
is necessary to possess thoroughly all the principles of 
hygiene in order to direct, to criticise, the construction 
of buildings, the regimen of animals, the alimentations 
of domestics ! It is necessary, still more, Madame 
Lefrancois, to possess the science of botany ! to be able 
to recognize plants, do you hear, which are the salutary 
ones and which are the deleterious ones, which are the 
unproductive and which are the nutritious, if it is good 
to root them up here, and sow them again there, to prop- 
agate these and to destroy others ; in short, it is necessary 
to keep one's self informed of the progress of science by 
publications and public papers, to keep one's self always 
in condition, so as to indicate the ameliorations " 

The innkeeper did not take her eyes from the door 
of the Cafe Francais, and the apothecary continued : 

" Would to God that our agriculturists were chemists, 
or that, at least, they would listen more to the counsels 
of science ! Thus, I, myself, I have lately written a 
strong opuscule, a treatise of more than seventy-two 
pages, entitled : Cider, its Manufacture and its Effects, 



PART SECOND 211 

followed by some novel reflections on this subject, which 
I have sent to the agricultural society of Rouen, which 
has even procured for me the honor of being received 
among its members, section of arboriculture, class of 
pomology ; well ! if my work had been delivered to 
publicity " 

But the apothecary stopped, Madame Lefrancois 
seemed so much preoccupied. 

"See them, then," she said, "can anyone under- 
stand that? A regular cook-shop affair ! " And with a 
shrugging of her shoulders, which drew over her chest 
the thick meshes of her knitted jacket, she indicated 
with her two hands the cabaret of her rival, from which 
the sound of songs was then issuing. " For that matter, 
it will not be for long," she added, "before a week 
everything will be ended ! " 

Homais recoiled in stupefaction. She descended her 
three steps and spoke in his ear : 

"How, you do not know that? it is going to be 
levied upon, this week. It is L'Heureux who is having 
it sold. He has killed it with notes." 

"What a frightful catastrophe ! " cried the apothe- 
cary, who always had at hand suitable expressions for 
all imaginable circumstances. The hostess related to 
him then this history which she had learned from 
Theodore, the servant of Monsieur Guillaumin, and 
although she execrated Tellier, she blamed L'Heureux. 
He was a wheedler, a cringing fellow. 



212 MADAME BOVARY 

"Ah! there he is," she said, "under the market 
sheds; he is bowing to Madame Bovary who has a 
green hat. She is leaning on Monsieur Boulanger's 
arm. 

"Madame Bovary! " said Homais, "I must hasten 
to pay her my respects. Perhaps she will be very well 
pleased to have a place in the enclosure under the 
peristyle." And without listening to the Mere Lefran- 
cois, who recalled him for further conversation, the 
pharmacist went away with a rapid step, a smile on his 
lips and stiff in the knees, distributing to right and to 
left a quantity of salutations, and taking up a great deal 
of space with the great tail of his black coat which 
floated in the wind behind him. 

Rodolphe, having perceived him at a distance, had 
taken a rapid pace ; but Madame Bovary lost her 
breath ; he relaxed his steps then and said to her smil- 
ing, in a gruff tone : 

"It is to avoid that coarse man, you know, the 
apothecary. ' ' 

She gave him a nudge with her elbow. 

"What does that mean?" he asked himself; and 
he looked at her out of the corner of his eye, while 
still continuing to walk. 

Her profile was so calm that nothing could be dis- 
covered from it. It was relieved in full daylight in the 
enlarged oval of her capote, which had pale ribbons 
resembling the leaves of a reed. Her eyes with their 



PART SECOND 213 

long curved lashes looked straight before her, and 
although well-opened they seemed somewhat restrained 
by the cheek bones, because of the blood which 
throbbed gently under her fine skin. A pink color 
traversed the partition of her nose. She inclined her 
head over her shoulder, and there could be seen be- 
tween her lips the pearly tips of her white teeth. 

"Is she making fun of me?" thought Rodolphe. 

Emma's action, however, had only been a warning, 
for Monsieur L'Heureux accompanied them, and he 
spoke to them from time to time as though wishing to 
enter into the conversation. 

"What a superb day! everybody is outdoors! the 
wind is in the east." But Madame Bovary, as well as 
Rodolphe, hardly replied to him, whilst at the least 
movement which they made he drew nearer, saying : 
" I beg your pardon ; what do you say ? " and carrying 
his hand to his hat. 

When they were before the blacksmith's house, 
instead of following the road as far as the barrier, 
Rodolphe suddenly turned into a path and drawing 
Madame Bovary with him, he cried: "Good -day, 
Monsieur L'Heureux ! au plaisir ! ' ' 

" How you have sent him away ! " she said, laughing. 

"Why," he replied, "should we be bothered with 
others? and since to-day I have the happiness of 

being with you " Emma blushed. He did not 

finish his phrase. Then he spoke of the fine weather 



214 MADAME BOVARY 

and of the pleasure of walking on the grass. Some 
daisies were growing about : " See the pretty daisies," 
he said, "and enough to furnish plenty of oracles to 
all the lovers of the country." He added: " If I 
should gather some, what would you think?" 

"Are you in love?" she said, coughing a little. 

" Eh ! eh ! who knows ? " replied Rodolphe. 

However, the field began to fill up, and the good 
householders got in your way with their big umbrellas, 
their baskets and their brats. Often it was necessary 
to go out of the path before a long file of country- 
women, servants in blue stockings, in flat shoes, with 
silver rings, and who smelt of milk when you passed 
near them. They walked, holding each other by the 
hands, and spread themselves out thus over the whole 
length of the meadows, from the line of the aspens up 
to the banqueting tent. But it was time for the exam- 
ination, and the agriculturists, one after the other, 
entered into a sort of hippodrome formed by a long 
cord carried on stakes. 

The animals were there, their noses turned toward 
the cord and lining up in an irregular way their croups 
of unequal sizes. The drowsy pigs buried their groins 
in the ground, the calves bellowed, the sheep bleated ; 
the cows, their legs folded under them, displayed their 
great stomachs on the grass and, chewing their cuds 
slowly, winked their heavy eyelids under the flies 
which buzzed around them. The carters, with naked 



PART SECOND 215 

arms, held by the halters the rearing stallions which 
whinnied with full nostrils by the side of the mares. 
The latter remained quiet, stretching out their heads 
and their manes hanging, whilst their colts rested in 
their shadow, or occasionally came to suck them ; and 
on the long undulations of all these accumulated 
bodies, there could be seen, lifting in the wind like a 
wave, some white mane, or jutting out sharp-pointed 
horns, and the heads of men who hastened. At one 
side, outside the lists, a hundred steps farther on, 
there was a great black bull muzzled, wearing an 
iron ring in his nostrils, and which moved no more 
than a bronze beast. A child in rags held him by a 
cord. 

However, between the two ranks some gentlemen 
were advancing with a heavy step, examining each 
animal, then consulting among themselves in low 
voices. One of them, who seemed to be the most 
important, made, as he walked, some notes in a pocket- 
book. This was the president of the jury, Monsieur 
Derozerais de la Pamville. As soon as he recognized 
Rodolphe, he came forward quickly and said to him, 
smiling with a friendly air : 

"How, Monsieur Boulanger, you are forsaking us?" 

Rodolphe protested that he was coming. But when 
the president had disappeared : 

" Ma foi ! no," he replied, "I shall not go; your 
company is well worth his. ' ' 



216 MADAME BOVARY 

And while making fun all the time of the fair, 
Rodolphe, in order to circulate more easily, showed to 
the gendarme his blue ticket, and he even stopped 
sometimes before some fine subject, which Madame 
Bovary scarcely admired. This he perceived, and then 
proceeded to indulge in pleasantries concerning the 
ladies of Yonville, apropos of their toilets; then he 
apologized for himself for the carelessness of his own. 
It had that incoherence of common and fine things in 
which the habitually vulgar man thinks to see glimpses 
of the revelation of an eccentric existence, the dis- 
orders of sentiment, the tyrannies of art, and always 
a certain contempt for social conventions, which 
seduces him or exasperates him. His shirt of batiste, 
with plaited cuffs, puffed out in the wind in the open- 
ing of his vest, which was of gray ticking, and his 
pantaloons with large stripes discovered at the ankles 
nankeen boots with patent leather vamps. They were 
so varnished that the grass was reflected in them. He 
trod down with them the droppings of the horses, 
carrying one hand in the pocket of his vest and his 
straw hat set on one side. 

"Moreover," he added, "when one lives in the 
country " 

"Nothing is worth while," said Emma. 

" That is true ! " replied Rodolphe. "To think that 
not one of these honest people is capable of under- 
standing the fit of a coat !" 



PART SECOND 217 

Then they spoke of the provincial mediocrity, the 
existences which it smothered, the illusions which per- 
ished in it. 

"So," said Rodolphe, "I bury myself in a sad- 
ness ' ' 

"You!" she said with astonishment. "But I 
thought you very gay ? ' ' 

' ' Ah ! yes, in appearance, because in the world I 
know how to assume a mask of raillery, and yet how 
many times, on seeing a cemetery in the moonlight, I 
have asked myself if I would not do better to go and 
rejoin those who are sleeping ' ' 

"Oh! And your friends," she said, "you do not 
think of them." 

"My friends? which of them then? have I any? 
Who is anxious about me ? ' ' And he accompanied 
these last words by a sort of whistling between his lips. 

But they were obliged to separate from each other 
because of a great scaffolding of chairs which a man 
was carrying behind them. He was so loaded with 
them that there could be seen of him only the points 
of his sabots, with the extremities of his two arms 
stretched out straight. It was Lestiboudois, the grave- 
digger, who was thus carting in among the multitude, 
the chairs from the church. Full of imagination in all 
that concerned his own interest, he had discovered this 
means of taking his part in the fair ; and his scheme 
had been successful, for he did not know to which one 



218 MADAME BOVARY 

to listen. In fact, the villagers, who were hot, fought 
for these seats of which the straw smelt of the incense, 
and leaned against their great backs, soiled by the wax 
of the candles, with a certain veneration. 

Madame Bovary took Rodolphe's arm again; he 
continued as if speaking to himself: 

"Yes! so many things have failed me! always 
alone ! Ah ! If I had had an object in life, if I had 

encountered an affection, if I had found someone 

Oh ! how I would have had expended all the energy of 
which I am capable, I would have surmounted every- 
thing, broken everything ! ' ' 

"It seems to me, however," said Emma, "that you 
are scarcely to be pitied." 

" Ah ! you think so ? " said Rodolphe. 

" For in short " she resumed, "you are free." 

She hesitated, — "rich." 

" Do not deride me," he replied. 

And she swore that she was not mocking when a 
cannon shot was heard; whereupon everyone went, 
pell-mell, toward the village. 

It was a false alarm. Monsieur le Prefet had not 
come ; and the members of the jury found themselves 
very much embarrassed, not knowing whether they 
should commence the sitting or wait still longer. 

Finally, at the end of the Place appeared a great 
hired landau drawn by two thin horses which a coach- 
man in a white hat was lashing furiously. Binet had 



PART SECOND 219 

only time to cry, "Aux armes/" and the colonel to 
follow his example. There was a rush toward the 
piled arms. Everyone precipitated himself. Some 
even forgot their stocks. But the Prefectural equipage 
seemed to divine this embarrassment and the two har- 
nessed jades, nodding along on their curbs, arrived at a 
little trot before the peristyle of the mayor's house just 
at the moment when the National Guard and the fire- 
men deployed, drums beating, and marking the step. 

" Mark time ! " cried Binet. 

" Halt ! " cried the colonel. " File left ! " 

And, after a carry arms, in which the rattle of the 
rings of the muskets, sliding down, sounded like a 
copper caldron tumbling down stairs, all the butts of 
the muskets fell to the earth. 

Then there was seen to descend from the carriage a 
gentleman wearing a short coat, embroidered with sil- 
ver, bald on the front of his head, wearing a tuft at the 
back, having a pale and dull complexion and the most 
benignant appearance. His two eyes, very large and 
covered with thick eyelids, were half closed in order to 
regard the multitude, at the same time that he lifted his 
pointed nose and smiled with his sunken mouth. He 
recognized the mayor by his scarf, and explained to 
him that Monsieur le Prefet had not been able to come. 
He was, himself, a counselor of the Prefecture ; then 
he added some excuses. Tuvache replied to him by 
civilities, the other confessed himself embarrassed ; 



220 MADAME BOVARY 

and they remained thus, face to face, and their fore- 
heads almost touching, with the members of the jury 
all around them, the municipal council, the notables, 
the National Guard and the crowd. Monsieur le Con- 
seiller, flattening against his chest his little black, 
three-cornered hat, reiterated his salutations, whilst 
Tuvache, bent like a bow, smiled also, stammered, 
searched for words, protested his devotion to the 
Monarchy, and appreciation of the honor which was 
done to Yonville. 

Hippolyte, the hostler of the inn, came to take by 
the bridles the horses of the coach and, limping with 
his clubfoot as he walked, he conducted them under the 
porch of the Lion d' Or, where a crowd of peasants 
were assembled to look at the carriage. The drums 
beat, the howitzer thundered, and the gentlemen in 
single file ascended to seat themselves on the balcony, 
in the armchairs in red Utrecht velvet, which had been 
lent by Madame Tuvache. 

All these personages resembled each other. Their 
flabby, pale faces, a little darkened by the sun, had the 
color of sweet cider, and their bushy whiskers escaped 
from great stiff collars which maintained white cravats 
with well-displayed rosettes. All the waistcoats were 
of velvet crossed like a shawl ; all the watches carried 
at the end of a long ribbon some oval seal in cor- 
nelian ; the two hands were placed on the two thighs, 
the knees carefully set wide apart, and the cloth of the 



PART SECOND 221 

pantaloons shining more brilliantly than the leather of 
the heavy boots, but with a lustre never given by the 
manufacturer. 

The ladies of the society were placed behind, under 
the vestibule, between the columns while the commoner 
part of the crowd was standing opposite or seated in 
chairs. In fact, Lestiboudois had brought there all 
those which he had moved in from the meadow, he 
even hastened every minute to get fresh ones from the 
church, and he so encumbered the place with his busi- 
ness that it was with great difficulty that access was had 
to the little stairway of the platform. 

"For my part, it seems to me," said Monsieur 
L'Heureux — addressing himself to the apothecary who 
was passing to take his place — " that there should have 
been set up there two Venetian masts ; with something 
rich and a little severe as novelties, that would have 
made a very pretty sight." 

"Certainly," replied Homais. "But what would 
you have? it is the mayor who has taken everything 
under his own bonnet. He has not very good taste, 
that poor Tuvache, and he is even completely devoid of 
that which is called the genius of the arts." 

Meanwhile, Rodolphe with Madame Bovary had 
ascended to the first floor of the mayor's office, into 
the salle des deliberations, and as it was empty he had 
declared that they would be able to enjoy the spectacle 
there more at their ease. He took three of the stools 



222 MADAME BOVARY 

that were around the oval table, under the bust of the 
monarch, and having placed them in one of the win- 
dows, they seated themselves near one another. 

There was an agitation upon the platform, long 
whisperings, consultations. Finally, Monsieur le Con- 
seiller arose. It was now known that his name was 
Lieuvain, and this word was repeated from one to the 
other throughout the crowd. When he had collected 
together several sheets of paper and placed his eye 
over them in order to see better, he commenced : 

" Messieurs: 

" May it be permitted to me at first — before address- 
ing you on the object of this reunion of to-day, and 
this sentiment, I am sure, will be partaken by all of 
you — may it be permitted to me, I say, to render jus- 
tice to the supreme administration, to the government, 
to the monarch, Messieurs, to our sovereign, to that 
king well-beloved, to whom no branch of the prosperity, 
public or individual, is indifferent, and who directs, 
with a hand at once so firm and so wise, the Chariot of 
State among the incessant perils of a stormy sea, know- 
ing, moreover, how to cause to be respected peace as 
well as war, industry, commerce, agriculture and the 
fine arts." 

"I had better," said Rodolphe, "get a little farther 
back." 



PART SECOND 223 

"Why?" said Emma. 

But at that moment the voice of the counselor rose 
in an extraordinary tone. He declaimed : 

"Those times exist no longer, Messieurs, in which 
civil discord caused bloodshed in our public places, 
in which the landed proprietor, the merchant, the 
workman himself, in sinking to sleep at night in 
peaceful slumber, trembled lest he should be suddenly 
awakened by the sound of incendiary tocsins, in which 
the most subversive maxims sapped audaciously the 
bases ' ' 

"It is because," replied Rodolphe, "I may be seen 
from below ; then I should have to be making excuses 
for two weeks, and with my bad reputation ' ' 

"Oh ! you slander yourself," said Emma. 

" No, no, it is execrable, I swear to you." 

"But, Messieurs," continued the counselor, "if, dis- 
missing from my memory these sombre pictures, I turn 
my eyes on the actual situation of our beautiful coun- 
try, — what do I see ? Everywhere are flourishing com- 
merce and the arts ; everywhere, new means of com- 
munication, like so many new arteries in the body 
of the State, establish in it new relations; our great 
manufacturing centres have resumed their activity; 
religion, more solidly established, smiles in all hearts ; 



224 MADAME BOVARY 

our ports are full, confidence is born again, and finally 
France breathes ! ' ' 

"For that matter," added Rodolphe, " perhaps from 
the point of view of the world, are they not right?" 

" How can that be ?" she said. 

" What ! " he said, " do you not know that there are 
souls ceaselessly tormented ? It is necessary for them 
to have alternately the dream and the action, the purest 
passion, the most furious enjoyments, and they accord- 
ingly throw themselves into all sorts of fanaticisms, of 
follies." 

Then she looked at him as one would contemplate a 
traveler who had passed through extraordinary coun- 
tries, and she replied : 

"We have not even that distraction, we poor 
women ! ' ' 

"A sorrowful distraction, for happiness is never 
found in it." 

" But is it ever found? " she asked. 

"Yes, it is met with some day," he replied. 

"And it is this that you have comprehended," said 
the counselor, "you, agriculturists and workmen of the 
fields; you, pacific pioneers of a complete work of 
civilization j you, men of progress and of morality ; 
you have comprehended, I say, that the storms of poli- 
tics are still more to be dreaded, truly, than the dis- 
orders of the atmosphere ' ' 



PART SECOND 225 

"It is met with one day," repeated Rodolphe, " one 
day suddenly and when we have despaired of it. Then 
new horizons open, it is like a voice which cries : 
' There it is ! ' You feel the need of making to this 
person the confidence of your whole life, of giving to 
him everything, of sacrificing to him everything ! You 
do not explain to yourself, you divine it. You have 
had glimpses of it in your dreams." — And he looked 
at her. — "Finally, it is there, that treasure which has 
been so much sought for, there, before you ; it shines, 
it sparkles. However, you doubt still, you dare not 
believe in it ; you remain dazzled, as if on coming 
out of the shadows into the light." 

And, in uttering these words, Rodolphe added pan- 
tomime to his speech. He passed his hand across his 
face like a man seized with giddiness ; then he allowed 
it to fall on Emma's. She withdrew hers. The coun- 
selor was still reading : 

"And who will be astonished at this, Messieurs? 
He only who will be blind enough, plunged deeply 
enough — I do not fear to say it — plunged deeply 
enough into the prejudices of another age, to still mis- 
understand the spirit of the agricultural population. 
Where, in fact, is there to be found more patriotism 
than in the field, more devotion to the public cause, 
more intelligence, in a word ? And I do not mean, 
Messieurs, that superficial intelligence, vain in ornament 



226 MADAME BOVARY 

of idle spirits, but that profound and moderated intelli- 
gence which applies itself, beyond everything else, to 
the pursuit of useful aims, contributing thus to the good 
of each one, to the common amelioration and to the 
maintenance of the States, the fruit of the respect of the 
laws and of the practice of duties. ' ' 

"Ah! again," said Rodolphe. " Always the duties, 
I am sick of those words ! They are a heap of stupid 
old idiots in flannel waistcoats and of female bigots 
with foot-warmers and beads who continually sing in 
our ears, ' duty ! duty ! ' Eh ! parbleu ! duty, that is 
to feel what is great, to cherish what is beautiful, and 
not to accept all the conventions of society, with the 
ignominies which it imposes upon us." 

"However, however, " objected Madame 

Bovary. 

"Ah! no! Why declaim against the passions ? Are 
they not the only beautiful thing that there is on the 
earth, the source of heroism, of enthusiasm, of poetry, 
of music, of the arts, of everything, in short !" 

"But it is very necessary," said Emma, "to follow 
a little the opinion of the world and to obey its 
morality." 

"Ah! but there are two of them," replied he, 
"the little, the conventional, that of men, that which 
varies ceaselessly and bawls so loudly, which agitates 
itself at the bottom, close to the earth like that 



PART SECOND 227 

assembly of imbeciles which you see there. But the 
other, the eternal, it is all around and overhead, like 
the landscape which environs us and the blue sky which 
lightens us." 

Monsieur Lieuvain had just wiped his mouth with his 
pocket handkerchief. He resumed : 

"And what should I have to do, Messieurs, to 
demonstrate to you here the usefulness of agriculture ? 
Who, then, purveys to our needs? Who, then, fur- 
nishes our subsistence ? Is it not the agriculturist ? 
The agriculturist, Messieurs, who, sowing with a labor- 
ious hand the fruitful furrows of the field, gives birth to 
the grain which ground and reduced to powder by 
means of ingenious apparatus, issues thence under the 
name of flour and from there, transported into the 
cities, is presently delivered to the baker who prepares 
from it an aliment for the poor as for the rich. Is it 
not the agriculturist again who fattens for our garments 
his abundant flocks in the pasturages ? For, how 
should we clothe ourselves, or how should we nourish 
ourselves, without agriculture ? And even, Messieurs, 
is it necessary to go so far to seek for examples ? Who 
has not often reflected on all the importance which is 
attached to that modest animal, the ornament of our 
poultry yards, who furnishes at once a soft pillow for 
our couches, her succulent flesh for our tables, and 
eggs ? But I should never finish if it were necessary to 
enumerate, one after the other, the different products 



228 MADAME BOVARY 

which the earth well cultivated, like unto a generous 
mother, gives prodigally to her children. Here it is 
the vine ; elsewhere it is cider apples ; there it is the 
colewort; farther on, the cheeses; and the flax, 
Messieurs, do not forget the flax ! which has developed 
in these later years a considerable increase and to 
which I would call more particularly your attention." 

He had no need to call it, for all the mouths of the 
multitude were open, as if to drink in his words. 
Tuvache, at his side, listened with great eyes ; Monsieur 
Derozerais, from time to time, slowly closed his eye- 
lids ; and, farther on, the pharmacist with his son, 
Napoleon between his knees, arched his hand behind 
his ear so as not to lose a single syllable. The other 
members of the jury swayed slowly their chins in their 
waistcoats in sign of approbation. The firemen, at the 
foot of the platform, reposed upon their bayonets, and 
Binet, motionless, his elbows protruding, kept the point 
of his sabre in the air. He heard perhaps, but he could 
have seen nothing because of the visor of his cap 
which came down upon his nose. Nevertheless, his 
lieutenant, the youngest son of the Sieur Tuvache, had 
exaggerated still more greatly the size of his own, for 
he wore an enormous one which shook upon his head 
while allowing to appear below it an end of his cotton 
handkerchief. He smiled underneath it with a sweet- 
ness quite infantile, and his small, pale face, down 



PART SECOND 229 

which the drops of sweat streamed, wore an expression 
of enjoyment, of exhaustion and of sleepiness. 

The Place up to the houses was filled with people. 
People could be seen leaning on their elbows at all the 
windows, others were standing in all the doorways, and 
Justin, before the front of the pharmacy, seemed to be 
quite absorbed in the contemplation of that which he 
was looking at. Notwithstanding the silence, the voice 
of Monsieur Lieuvain lost itself in the air. It came to 
you by fragments of phrases, which were interrupted 
here and there by the noise of the chairs in the crowd ; 
then you could hear suddenly from behind you a long 
bellowing of an ox, or the bleating of the lambs which 
answered each other from the corners of the streets. In 
fact, the cowherds and the shepherds had brought their 
animals that far, and they lowed from time to time, 
while reaching with their tongue some spray of foliage 
which hung over their muzzles. 

Rodolphe had drawn nearer to Emma and he said to 
her in a low voice, speaking quickly : 

" Does not this conspiracy of the world revolt you ? 
Is there a single sentiment which it does not condemn ? 
The most noble instincts, the purest sympathies, are per- 
secuted, calumniated, and if it should finally encounter 
two poor souls, everything is arranged so that they shall 
not be able to join each other. They will endeavor, 
however, they will beat their wings, they will call each 
other. Oh ! no matter, sooner or later, in six months, 



230 MADAME BOVARY 

in ten years, they will be reunited, will love each other, 
because fatality ordains it and because they are born 
one for the other." 

He was sitting with his arms crossed on his knees, 
and, raising his face toward Emma, he looked at her 
closely, fixedly. She distinguished in his eyes little 
rays of gold diverging all around his black pupils and 
she even smelt the perfume of the pomade with which 
his hair was dressed. Then a languor seized her, she 
recalled that viscount who had caused her to waltz at 
the Vaubyessard and whose beard exhaled, like this 
hair, this odor of vanilla and of citron ; and mechan- 
ically she half closed her eyelids to breathe it the 
better. But in the movement which she made, in 
bending in her chair, she perceived in the distance 
on the edge of the horizon, the old diligence, the 
Hirondelle, which was descending slowly the hill of the 
Leux, trailing after it a long cloud of dust. It was in 
this yellow vehicle that Leon so often had returned to 
her, and by that road over there that he had departed 
forever ! She thought she saw him before her at her 
window ; then everything became confused, clouds 
passed before her : it seemed to her that she was still 
revolving in the waltz, under the light of the chande- 
liers, in the arms of the viscount, and that Leon was 

not far away, that he was about to come and, 

however, she was conscious all the time of Rodolphe's 
head by her side. 



PART SECOND 231 

The pleasure of this sensation penetrated thus her 
former desires, and, like grains of sand in a whirlwind, 
they whirled in the subtle gust of the perfume which 
diffused itself through her soul. She spread her nostrils 
several times vigorously to breathe in the freshness of 
the ivy around the capitals of the columns. She took 
off her gloves, she wiped her hands; then, with her 
handkerchief, she fanned her face whilst through the 
beating of her temples she heard the noise of the crowd 
and the voice of the counselor who was monotonously 
reciting his phrases. 

He said : 

" Continue ! persevere ! listen neither to the sugges- 
tions of routine nor to the too premature counsels of a 
rash empiricism I Apply yourselves, above all, to the 
improvement of the soil, to good fertilizers, to the 
development of the equine, bovine, ovine and porcine 
races ! May these fairs be for you, as it were, pacific 
arenas, where the vanquisher, issuing forth, will extend 
his hand to the vanquished and will fraternize with 
him, in the hope of a better success ! And you, vener- 
able servitors, humble domestics whose painful labors 
no government, up to the present day, has taken 
into consideration, come to receive the recompense 
of your silent virtues and be convinced that the 
State, henceforth, has its eyes fixed upon you, that it 
encourages you, that it protects you, that it will do 



232 MADAME BOVARY 

right to your just reclamations and will lighten to the 
full extent of its power, the burden of your painful 
sacrifices ! ' ' 

Monsieur Lieuvain sat down ; and then Monsieur 
Derozerais arose, commencing another discourse. His, 
perhaps, was not so flowery as that of the counselor ; 
but it recommended itself by a more positive character 
of style, that is to say, by more special knowledge and 
more elevated considerations. Thus, the eulogy of the 
Government occupied less place in it ; religion and 
agriculture occupied more. The relation between one 
and the other was demonstrated, and how they had 
always concurred in the cause of civilization. Ro- 
dolphe, with Madame Bovary, was talking of dreams, 
presentiments, magnetism. Remounting to the cradle 
of societies, the orator depicted to you those savage 
times in which men lived on acorns in the depths of 
the forests. Then he had stopped wearing the skins 
of beasts, assumed garments of cloth, hollowed the 
furrows, planted the vine. Was it a benefit, and have 
there not been in this discovery more inconveniences 
than advantages ? Monsieur Derozerais put this prob- 
lem to himself. From magnetism, little by little, 
Rodolphe had come to the affinities, and whilst Mon- 
sieur le President cited Cincinnatus at his plough, 
Diocletian planting his cabbages, and the emperors of 
China inaugurating the year by sowing grain, the young 



PART SECOND 233 

man explained to the young woman that these irresist- 
ible attractions drew their origin from some anterior 
existence : 

"Thus, we ourselves," he said, "why have we 
become acquainted? What chance willed it? It is 
that across the separating distance, doubtless, like two 
rivers which flow to meet each other, our particular 
inclinations have urged us toward each other. ' ' 

And he seized her hand ; she did not withdraw it. 

"General exhibit of good cultivations!" cried the 
President. 

" Thus, for example, when I came to your house ' ' 

"To Monsieur Bizet, of Quincampoix." 

" Did I know that I would accompany you? " 

' ' Seventy francs ! ' ' 

"A hundred times at least I tried to depart, and I 
have followed you, I have remained." 

"Manures." 

"As I will remain this evening, to-morrow, the other 
days, all my life !" 

"To Monsieur Caron, of Argueil, a gold medal ! " 

" For never have I found in the society of anyone a 
charm as complete." 

"To Monsieur Bain, of Givry-Saint-Martin." 

"Thus, I, I will carry away your souvenir." 

" For a merino ram " 

" But you will forget me, I shall have passed like the 
shadow. ' ' 



234 MADAME BOVARY 

"To Monsieur Belot, of Notre-Dame " 

" Oh ! no, shall I not be something in your thoughts, 
in your life?" 

"Race porcine, prize excequo; to Messieurs Lehe- 
risse and Cullembourg : sixty francs ! ' ' 

Rodolphe grasped her hand and he felt it all warm 
and struggling like a captive dove which wishes to 
resume its flight ; but, whether it was that she endeav- 
ored to disengage it or that she indeed replied to this 
pressure, she made a movement of her fingers; he 
exclaimed : 

"Oh! thanks! you do not repulse me! You are 
kind ! You comprehend that I am yours ! Permit me 
to see you, to contemplate you ! ' ' 

A gust of wind which came through the windows 
rolled up the cloth on the table ; and on the Place 
below all the great bonnets of the peasant women rose 
in the air, like the wings of white butterflies agitating 
themselves. 

"Use of cakes of oleaginous grains," continued the 
President; he was hastening, "Flemish fertilizers — 
culture of flax — drainage — long term leases — service of 
domestics." 

Rodolphe was no longer speaking. They looked at 
each other. A supreme desire moved their dry lips ; 
and softly, without an effort, their fingers intertwined. 

" Catherine-Nicaise-Elisabeth Leroux, of Sassetot-la- 
Guerriere, for fifty-four years of service on the same 



PART SECOND 235 

farm, a silver medal, of the price of twenty-five 
francs ! ' ' 

"Where is she, Catherine Leroux?" repeated the 
counselor. 

She did not present herself, and voices could be 
heard whispering : 

"Go there!" 

"No." 

"To the left!" 

"Don't be afraid!" 

" Ah ! how stupid she is ! " 

" Finally ! is she there ?" cried Tuvache. 

' ' Yes ! here she is ! " 

" Let her approach then ! " 

Then there was seen advancing on the platform, a 
little old woman with a frightened appearance, and 
who seemed more shriveled still in her poor garments. 
She had on her feet heavy wooden galoshes, and 
around her hips a great blue apron. Her meagre 
visage, surrounded by a linen cap without a border, 
was more seamed with wrinkles than a withered rennet, 
and extending beyond the sleeves of her red vest were 
two long hands with knotty joints. The dust of the 
barns, the potash of the washings and the greasiness of 
the sheep's wool had so completely encrusted, chafed 
and hardened them, that they would have seemed 
soiled though they were rinsed in clear water; and 
through long service they remained half-opened, as if 



236 MADAME BOVARY 

to present of themselves the humble witness of so many 
sufferings endured. Something of a monastic rigidity- 
set off the expression of her countenance. Nothing 
sad or tender came to soften this pale regard. In the 
association with animals, she had taken on their dumb- 
ness and their placidity. It was the first time that she 
had ever seen herself in the midst of a company so 
numerous, and, inwardly terrified by the flags, by the 
drums, by these Messieurs in black coats and by the 
cross of honor of the counselor, she remained quite 
motionless, not knowing whether it were necessary to 
advance or take flight, nor why the crowd urged her 
forward nor why the examiners smiled upon her. Thus 
presented itself before these cheerful bourgeois this half- 
century of servitude. 

"Approach, venerable Catherine - Nicaise - Elisabeth 
Leroux ! ' ' said Monsieur le Conseiller, who had taken 
from the hands of the President the list of the prize- 
takers ; and, alternately examining the sheet of paper 
and the old woman, he repeated in a paternal tone : 
" Approach, approach ! " 

" Are you deaf? " said Tuvache, jumping in his arm- 
chair; and he began to shout in her ear: "Fifty-four 
years of service ! A medal of silver ! Twenty-five 
francs ! It is for you ! ' ' 

Then, when she had received her medal, she looked 
at it. A smile of beatitude spread over her counte- 
nance, and she was heard muttering as she went away : 



PART SECOND 237 

" I will give it to the cur£ of our parts so that he 
can say masses for me." 

"What fanaticism!" exclaimed the pharmacist, lean- 
ing over toward the notary. 

The sitting was finished. The crowd dispersed ; and 
now that the discourses had been read each one resumed 
his own rank and everything became as before, — the 
masters were rough to their servants and the latter beat 
the animals, indolent triumphers who returned to their 
stables, a green crown between their horns. 

However, the National Guards had ascended to the 
first floor of the mayor's office with cakes impaled on 
their bayonets and the drummer of the battalion, who 
carried a basketful of bottles. Madame Bovary took 
Rodolphe's arm ; he reconducted her to her own 
house ; they separated before her door ; then he walked 
about alone in the meadow while waiting for the ban- 
quet hour. 

The feast was long, noisy, badly served ; the crowd 
was so great that there was scarcely room to move the 
elbows and the narrow planks which served as benches 
all but broke under the weight of the guests. They ate 
abundantly. Each one indulged himself for his quota. 
The sweat stood on all the faces ; and a pale vapor, 
like the mist from a stream on a morning of autumn, 
floated above the table between the suspended lamps. 
Rodolphe, his back leaning against the canvas of the 
tent, was thinking so strongly of Emma that he heard 



238 MADAME BOVARY 

nothing. Behind him on the grass the domestics piled 
up the soiled plates; his neighbors spoke, he did not 
reply to them ; his glass was filled ; and the silence 
established itself in his thoughts, despite the increasing 
noise. He dreamed of what she had said and of the 
form of her lips ; her face as in a magic mirror reflected 
itself in the plates on the shakos ; the folds of her dress 
descended the length of the walls, and days of love 
unrolled themselves to infinity in the perspective of the 
future. 

He saw her again in the evening during the display 
of fireworks; but she was with her husband, Madame 
Homais and the apothecary ; the latter tormented him- 
self greatly over the danger of wandering sky-rockets, 
and at each moment he left the company to go and 
make recommendations to Binet. 

However, the pyrotechnic pieces sent to the address 
of the Sieur Tuvache had, through excess of precaution, 
been stored in his cellar ; so that the damp powder 
would scarcely light, and the principal piece, which 
was to represent a dragon biting his tail, failed com- 
pletely. From time to time a poor Roman candle 
went off; then the open-mouthed crowd gave vent to a 
clamor, in which were mingled the cries of the women 
whose waists were embraced in the darkness. Emma, 
silent, concealed herself modestly behind Charles's 
shoulder; then with her chin raised, she followed 
in the black sky the luminous flight of the rockets. 



PART SECOND 239 

Rodolphe contemplated her by the light of the fire-pots 
which were burning. 

They went out little by little. The stars came out 
again. Some drops of rain began to fall. She knotted 
her fichu over her uncovered head. 

At this moment, the carriage of the counselor came 
out of the inn. His coachman, who was drunk, sud- 
denly collapsed; and there could be seen from a 
distance, above the hood, between the two lanterns, 
the mass of his body which swayed from right to left 
following the pitching of the main braces of the 
coach. 

"Truly," said the apothecary, "severe measures 
should be taken against drunkenness ! I would have it 
that there should be posted, weekly, at the mayor's 
door, on a placard ad hoc, the names of all those 
who, during the week, had intoxicated themselves 
with alcohols. Moreover, for the purpose of statis- 
tics, you would have them there like patent records 

to which you could refer at need . But excuse 

me!" 

And he hastened toward the captain again. 

The latter was returning to his house. He was going 
to see again his lathe. 

"Perhaps you would not do badly," said Homais to 
him, " to send one of your men or to go yourself " 

"Let me alone, will you," replied the collector, 
" since there is nothing the matter ! " 



240 MADAME BOVARY 

" Reassure yourselves," said the apothecary when he 
had returned to his friends. "Monsieur Binet has 
certified to me that all measures have been taken. 
No sparks have fallen. The pumps are full. Let us go 
and sleep." 

"Ma foil I have need of it," said Madame 
Homais, who yawned considerably; " but never mind, 
we have had a beautiful day for our fete." 

Rodolphe repeated in a low voice and with a tender 
look: 

" Oh ! yes, very beautiful ! " 

And having made their salutations, everybody sepa- 
rated. 

Two days later in le Fanal de Rouen there was a 
great article on the fair. Homais had composed it, 
with great enthusiasm, on the next day : 

" Why these festoons, these flowers, these garlands? 
Whither hastens this crowd, like the waves of a tempest- 
uous sea, under the torrents of a tropical sun which 
pours its heat upon our fields? " 

Then he spoke of the condition of the peasants. 
Certainly the Government did much, but not enough ! 
" Courage !" he cried to it ; "a thousand reforms are 
indispensable, let us accomplish them. ' ' Then, taking 
up the triumphal entrance of the counselor, he did not 
forget " the martial air of our militia," nor " our most 
sprightly villagers," nor "the aged men with bald 
heads, species of patriarchs, who were there and of 



PART SECOND 241 

whom some, the remnants of our immortal phalanxes, 
felt their hearts beat again at the manly sound of the 
drums. ' ' He mentioned himself among the first of the 
members of the jury, and he even recalled in a note 
that Monsieur Homais, pharmacist, has sent a treatise 
on cider to the Society of Agriculture. When he came 
to the distribution of the recompenses he painted the 
joy of the laureates in dithyrambic phrases, — "The 
father embraced his son, the brother the brother, the 
husband his wife. 

" More than one displayed with pride his humble 
medal and doubtless, returned to his own house, to the 
side of his worthy helpmeet, he suspended it, weeping, 
to the discreet walls of his little cottage. 

"About six o'clock a banquet, arranged in the grass 
land of Monsieur Liegeard, reunited the principal 
guests of the festival. The frankest cordiality did not 
cease to reign. Divers toasts were drunk : Monsieur 
Lieuvain, to the monarch ! Monsieur Tuvache, to the 
Prefect ! Monsieur Derozerais, to agriculture ! Monsieur 
Homais, to industry and the fine arts, those two sisters ! 
Monsieur Leplichey, to the proposed ameliorations ! 
In the evening, a brilliant display of fireworks sud- 
denly illumined the air. It was a veritable kaleido- 
scope, a true decor d 1 Opera, and in a moment our 
little locality might have believed itself transported 
into the midst of a dream of The Thousand and One 
Nights. 



242 MADAME BOVARY 

"Let us state that no unpleasant accident has hap- 
pened to trouble this family reunion." And he added, 
"The absence of the clergy only was remarked. 
Doubtless the sacristies understand progress in another 
manner. You are free to do so, Messieurs de Loyola ! ' ' 



IX 



Six weeks passed away. Rodolphe did not return. 
Finally, one evening, he appeared. 

He said to himself, the day after the fair, "We will 
not return too soon, that would be a mistake ;" and at 
the end of the week he went off hunting. After the 
hunt he had thought that he was too late. Then he 
followed out this reasoning : " But if she has loved me 
from the first day, she should, through impatience to 
see me again, love me still more. We will then con- 
tinue ! " And he understood that his calculation had 
been good when, on entering the salle, he saw Emma 
turn pale. 

She was alone. The day was declining. The little 
curtains of muslin before the windows increased the 
twilight, and the gilding of a barometer on which a 
ray of the sun struck, sent a spark of fire into the 
mirror between the openings of the polypier. 



PART SECOND 243 

Rodolphe remained standing; and Emma scarcely 
replied to his first polite phrases. 

"I," said he, "I have been engaged. I have been 
sick." 

"Seriously?" she cried. 

"Well!" said Rodolphe, sitting down at her side 

on a stool, "no! It was because I did not wish 

to come back." 

"Why?" 

"You do not suspect?" 

He looked at her once more, but in so violent a man- 
ner that she lowered her head, blushing. He resumed : 

"Emma " 

" Monsieur," said she, drawing away a little. 

"Ah! you see very well," he replied in a melan- 
choly voice, "that I was right in wishing not to 
return ; for that name, that name which fills my soul 
and which escaped me involuntarily, you forbid it to 

me ! Madame Bovary ! eh ! everybody calls you 

that ! It is not your name, moreover ; it is the name 
of another ! " 

He repeated: " Of another ! " and he hid his face 
in his hands. 

"Yes, I think of you continually ! the recollec- 
tion of you drives me to despair ! Ah ! forgive me ! 

I leave you Adieu I will go far away so 

far that you will no longer hear me spoken of! 

And yet to-day I do not know what force 



244 MADAME BOVARY 

again impelled me toward you ! for you cannot combat 
against Heaven, you do not resist the smile of the 
angels ! you allow yourself to be drawn by that which 
is beautiful, charming, adorable ! ' ' 

This was the first time Emma had ever heard these 
things said; and her pride, like someone who relaxes 
himself in a hothouse, stretched itself out softly and in 
all its fulness at the warmth of this language. 

"But if I have not come," he continued, "if I have 
not been able to see you, ah ! at least, I have well con- 
templated that which surrounds you. In the night, 
every night, I have arisen, I have come this far, I have 
looked at your house, the roof of which shone in the 
moonlight, the trees in the garden which swayed before 
your window and the little lamp, a gleam, which shone 
through the window-panes, in the shadow. Ah ! you 
scarcely knew that there was there, so near and so far 
away, a poor miserable ' ' 

She turned toward him with a sob. 

" Oh ! how good you are ! " she said. 

" No, I love you ! that is all ! You do not doubt it ! 
Say it to me ; a word ! one word only ! " 

And Rodolphe insensibly had slipped from his stool 
to the floor ; but a noise of sabots was heard in the 
kitchen and the door of the salle, he perceived, was 
not closed. 

" How charitable you would be," he pursued, rising, 
" to satisfy a whim." 



PART SECOND 245 

It was to visit his house ; he wished her to see it ; 
and Madame Bovary finding nothing inconvenient in 
this, they both rose when Charles entered. 

"Good-day, doctor," said Rodolphe to him. 

The medical man, flattered at this unexpected title, 
expanded in obsequiousness, and the other profited by 
it to regain his self-possession a little. 

" Madame was speaking to me," he finally said, "of 
her health." 

Charles interrupted him ; he was a prey to a thousand 
anxieties in fact; his wife's oppression seemed to be 
recommencing. Then Rodolphe asked if horseback 
exercise would not be good for her. 

" Certainly ! excellent, perfect ! That's an idea ! 

You should follow it." 

And, as she objected that she had no horse, Ro- 
dolphe offered one ; but she refused his offers ; he 
did not insist ; then, in order to give an object to 
his visit, he related that his cartman, the man who 
had been bled, still experienced, continually, attacks 
of dizziness. 

"I will step in," said Bovary. 

"No, no, I will send him to you; we will come, 
that will be more convenient for you." 

"Ah ! very well. I thank you." 

And, when they were alone : 

"Why did you not accept Monsieur Boulanger's 
offer, which was so considerate ? ' ' 



246 MADAME BOVARY 

She assumed a pouting air, searched for a thousand 
excuses, and declared finally that that perhaps would 
seem queer. 

" Ah ! it is but little I care for that !" said Charles, 
executing a pirouette. "Health before everything! 
You are wrong ! ' ' 

' ' Well ! how would you have me ride on horseback 
when I have no habit ? ' ' 

"There will have to be one ordered for you!" he 
replied. 

The habit decided her. 

When the costume was ready, Charles wrote to Mon- 
sieur Boulanger that his wife was at his disposition, and 
that he counted upon his good nature. 

The next day, at noon, Rodolphe arrived before 
Charles's door with two of his own horses. One of 
them carried pink pompons at his ears, and a woman's 
saddle in deerskin. 

He had put on long, soft boots, saying to himself that 
doubtless she had never seen any similar ; and, in fact, 
Emma was charmed with his figure when he appeared on 
the landing with his great coat of velvet and his panta- 
loons of white tricot. She was ready ; she was waiting 
for him. 

Justin made his escape from the pharmacy in order 
that he might see her, and the apothecary also ap- 
peared. He offered Monsieur Boulanger some recom- 
mendations : 



PART SECOND 247 

" An accident happens so easily ! Be careful ! Your 
horses, perhaps, are fiery ! ' ' 

She heard a noise above her head ; it was Felicite 
who was drumming against the pane to divert little 
Berthe. The infant blew a kiss from the distance ; her 
mother replied to her by a sign with the handle of her 
whip. 

" I hope you may have a fine ride !" cried Monsieur 
Homais. " But prudence, above all, prudence !" And 
he shook his newspaper at them while watching them 
disappear. 

As soon as he felt the soft earth under his feet, 
Emma's horse commenced to gallop. Rodolphe gal- 
loped beside her. Occasionally they exchanged a word. 
Her face somewhat lowered, her hand high and her 
right arm free, she abandoned herself to the cadence of 
the movement which rocked her in the saddle. 

At the bottom of a hill, Rodolphe loosened the 
reins ; they set off together at one bound ; then, at the 
top, suddenly, the horses stopped, and her large blue 
veil fell over her face. 

They were in the first days of October. There was a 
mist over the country. Vapors lengthened themselves 
along the horizon, between the contour of the hills; 
and others, dissipating themselves, ascended, lost them- 
selves. Sometimes, in a separation of the clouds, under 
a ray of sunshine, they perceived in the distance the 
roofs of Yonville with the gardens on the edge of the 



248 MADAME BOVARY 

stream, the courtyards, the walls and the steeple of the 
church. Emma half closed her eyelids to be able to 
recognize her own house, and never had this poor village 
in which she lived seemed to her so little. From the 
height at which they were, all the valley seemed to be an 
immense lake, pale, evaporating in the air. The clumps 
of trees, in various places, stood out like black rocks, and 
the high line of the poplars which overtopped the mist 
represented the sandy stretches which the wind moved. 

At their side, on the sward, between the fir-trees, a 
brownish light played in the tepid atmosphere. The 
ground, reddish-brown as tobacco powder, dulled the 
noise of footfalls ; and with the tips of their shoes in 
walking, the horses drove before them the fallen pine 
cones. 

Rodolphe and Emma followed thus the edge of the 
wood. She turned away occasionally in order to avoid 
his look; and then she saw only the trunks of the 
fir-trees in line, the continual succession of which 
bewildered her a little. Their horses panted. The 
leather of the saddles creaked. 

At the moment when they entered the forest the sun 
appeared. 

" God protects us ! " said Rodolphe. 

"You think so?" she asked. 

" Let us go on ! let us go on ! " he replied. 

He clicked with his tongue. The two animals has- 
tened their speed. 



PART SECOND 249 

Some tall ferns on the edge of the road caught in 
Emma's stirrup. Rodolphe, without stopping, leaned 
over and took them partially away. At other times, to 
put the branches out of the way, he pressed close to 
her, and Emma felt his knee against her leg. The sky 
had become blue. The leaves did not move. There 
were great spaces full of heather, all in flower, and the 
violet patches alternated with the medley of the trees 
which were gray, reddish or golden according to the 
diversity of the foliage. Frequently they heard under 
the bushes, gliding along, a little beating of wings, or 
the hoarse and soft cry of the ravens which flew away 
among the oaks. 

They dismounted. Rodolphe secured the horses. 
She went before him over the moss, between the ruts. 

But her dress, too long, embarrassed her, although 
she carried it lifted by the train ; and Rodolphe walk- 
ing behind her contemplated between this black cloth 
and the black boot the delicacy of a white stocking 
which suggested to him something of her nudity. 

She stopped. 

"I am fatigued," she said. 

' ' Come on, try again ! " he replied ; ' ' do not give up ! " 

A hundred steps farther on she stopped again ; and 
through her veil, which, from her man's hat, descended 
obliquely upon her hips, her face could be distinguished 
in the bluish transparency, as if she were floating under 
azure waves. 



250 



MADAME BOVARY 



"Where are we going then?" 

He did not reply. She was breathing short and 
quick. Rodolphe threw his eyes around him and bit 
his mustache. 

They arrived at a somewhat larger opening where 
all the young trees had been cut down. They seated 
themselves on the fallen trunk of a tree, and Rodolphe 
commenced to speak to her of his love. 

He did not frighten her at first by compliments. He 
was calm, serious, melancholy. 

Emma listened to him, her head lowered and mov- 
ing about with the point of her foot the chips on the 
ground. 

But at this phrase : 

"Are not our destinies henceforth in common?" 

" Eh ! no," she replied. " You know it well. It is 
impossible." 

She rose to depart. He seized her by the wrist ; she 
stopped. Then having looked at him for some minutes 
with a loving and swimming eye, she said quickly : 

"Ah ! come, let us talk no more . Where are 

the horses ? Let us return. ' ' 

He made a gesture of anger and weariness. She 
repeated : 

"Where are the horses? where are the horses?" 

Then, smiling with a strange smile and his eyes fixed, 
his teeth set, he advanced, opening his arms. She 
recoiled trembling. She stammered : 



PART SECOND 251 

" Oh ! you make me afraid ! you distress me. Let 
us go. ' ' 

"Since it is necessary," he replied, changing his 
expression. 

And he became immediately respectful, caressing, 
timid. She took his arm. They set out on their return. 
He said to her : 

"What was the matter with you then? Why? I 
did not comprehend ! You were mistaken, doubtless ? 
You are in my soul like a Madonna on a pedestal, in a 
high place, immovable and immaculate. But I have 
need of you to live ! I have need of your eyes, of 
your voice, of your thoughts. Be my friend, my sister, 
my angel ! ' ' 

He stretched out his arm and took her around the 
waist. She endeavored to disengage herself gently. 
He supported her thus as they walked. 

But they heard the two horses who were browsing on 
the foliage. 

"Oh! once more," said Rodolphe. "Let us not 
go! Stay!" 

He drew her further on, around a little pond in 
which the duckweed made a verdure upon the waves. 
Some faded water lilies floated motionless among the 
rushes. At the sound of their steps in the grass, some 
frogs leaped into the water to hide themselves. 

" I was wrong, I was wrong," she said. " I am mad 
to listen to you ! ' ' 



252 MADAME BOVARY 

« Why ? Emma ! Emma ! ' ' 

"Oh! Rodolphe ! " said the young woman 

slowly, leaning on his shoulder. 

The cloth of her habit caught on the velvet of his 
coat. She threw back her white neck which swelled 
with a long sigh ; and, swooning, all in tears, with a long 
shudder and hiding her face, she abandoned herself. 

The shadows of the evening descended; the hori- 
zontal rays of the sun passing between the branches 
dazzled her eyes. Here and there, all around her, in 
the leaves or on the ground, luminous spots trembled, 
as if the humming-birds in flying had scattered their 
feathers around. The silence was everywhere ; some- 
thing soft seemed to issue from the trees ; she felt her 
heart, the beatings of which recommenced, and the 
blood to circulate in her flesh like a flood of milk. 
Then she heard far in the distance, beyond the woods, 
on the other hills, a vague and prolonged cry, a voice 
which drew itself out, — and she listened to it silently, 
mingling it like a music with the last vibrations of her 
agitated nerves. Rodolphe, with a cigar between his 
teeth, was mending with his pen-knife one of the two 
bridles which was broken. 

They returned to Yonville by the same road, they 
saw again in the mud the hoof-prints of their horses, 
side by side, and the same bushes, the same pebbles in 
the grass. Nothing around them had changed ; and for 
her, however, something had arisen of more importance 



$art Secontr adapter IPX 



He stretched out his arm and took her around the 
waist. She endeavored to disengage herself gently. 
He supported her thus as they walked. 

But they heard the two horses who were browsing on 
the foliage. 

' ' Oh / once ?nore, ' ' said Rodolphe. ' ' Let us not 
go! Stay/" 

He drew her further on. 



I 




PART SECOND 253 

than if the mountains had been displaced. Rodolphe, 
from time to time, leaned over and took her hand to 
kiss it. 

Upright, with her slender figure, her knee bent over 
the mane of her animal, with a little color from the 
open air, in the redness of the evening, she was charm- 
ing on horseback. 

As they entered Yonville, she made her horse cara- 
cole on the pavement. They looked at her from all 
the windows. 

Her husband, at dinner, found her cheerful ; but she 
apparently did not hear him when he asked about her 
ride ; and she sat still, her elbow at the edge of her 
plate, between the two lighted candles. 

" Emma," said he. 

"What?" 

" Well ! I was this afternoon at the house of Mon- 
sieur Alexandre ; he has an old filly, still very hand- 
some, a little broken-kneed only, and which could be 

had, I am certain, for about three hundred francs " 

He added: "thinking, perhaps, that that would be 

agreeable to you, I have secured her I have bought 

her Have I done well ? tell me?" 

She moved her head in sign of assent ; then a quarter 
of an hour later : 

" Are you going out this evening? " she asked. 

"Yes, why?" 

" Oh ! nothing, nothing, my dear." 



254 MADAME BOVARY 

As soon as she was rid of Charles, she went upstairs 
and shut herself in her chamber. 

At first it was like a dizziness ; she saw the trees, 
the roads, the ditches, Rodolphe, and she felt still the 
clasp of his arms, whilst the foliage quivered and the 
reeds rustled. 

In seeing herself in the mirror, she was astonished at 
her face. Never had her eyes been so large, so black, 
nor of such an intensity. Something subtle diffused 
itself over her person, transfigured her. 

She repeated to herself: " I have a lover ! a lover ! " 
taking delight in this idea as in that of another puberty 
which might have come to her. 

She was then going to possess, finally, those joys 
of love, that fever of happiness of which she had 
despaired. She was entering into something marvelous, 
where everything would be passion, ecstasy, delirium ; 
a blue immensity surrounded her, the heights of feeling 
sparkled under her thought, and the ordinary existence 
appeared only in the distance, away down there in the 
shadow, in the intervals of these heights. 

Then she recalled to herself the heroines of the books 
which she had read, and the lyric legion of these adul- 
terous wives began to chant in her memory with the 
voices of sisters who charmed her. She became herself, 
as it were, a veritable portion of these imaginations and 
realized the long revery of her youth, in contemplating 
herself in this type of loving one, whom she had so 



PART SECOND 255 

much envied. Moreover, Emma experienced a satis- 
faction of vengeance. Had she not suffered enough ? 
But now she triumphed, and love, so long restrained, 
sprang up all complete with joyous exuberance. She 
tasted it without remorse, without disquietude, without 
trouble. 

The next day was passed in a new blissfulness. They 
made vows to each other. She recounted to him her 
sorrows. Rodolphe interrupted her by his kisses, and 
she demanded of him, while contemplating him through 
her half-closed eyes, to call her again by her name and 
to repeat that he loved her. It was in the forest as in 
the day before, under a sabot maker's hut. The walls 
were of straw and the roof descended so low that it was 
necessary to stoop. They were seated, one against the 
other, on a bed of dry leaves. 

After this day they wrote to each other, regularly, 
every evening. Emma carried her letter to the end of 
the garden, near the river where she placed it in a 
fissure in the terrace. Rodolphe came there to get it 
and replaced it by another, which she always complained 
of being too brief. 

One morning, when Charles had gone out before day- 
break, she was taken with the whim of seeing Rodolphe 
immediately. It would be possible to go promptly to 
La Huchette, to stay there an hour, and to return to 
Yonville while everybody was still asleep. This thought 
made her gasp with eager desire, and she soon found 



256 MADAME BOVARY 

herself in the middle of the meadow where she walked 
with rapid steps, without looking behind her. 

The day was beginning to appear. Emma, from a 
distance, recognized her lover's house, of which the 
two swallow-tailed weathercocks cut themselves out in 
black against the pale twilight. 

Beyond the courtyard of the farm, there was a main 
building which should be the chateau. She entered in, 
as if the walls at her approach had opened of them- 
selves. A wide straight stairway ascended toward a 
corridor. Emma turned the handle of a door and sud- 
denly, at the end of the chamber, she saw a man sleep- 
ing. It was Rodolphe. She uttered a cry. 

"You here! you here!" he repeated. "How did 
you manage to come ? Ah ! your dress is all wet !" 

"I love you," she replied, putting her arms around 
his neck. 

This first audacity having succeeded, every time now 
that Charles went out very early, Emma dressed herself 
quickly and descended with stealthy steps, the flight of 
steps which led to the edge of the water. When the 
plank for the cows had been taken up, it was necessary 
to follow the walls which ran along the river. The 
shore was slippery ; she clung with her hand to the 
tufts of withered wallflowers so as not to fall. Then 
she struck across the ploughed fields where she got in 
deeply, stumbled, and muddied her thin boots. Her 
silk handkerchief knotted over her head fluttered in the 



PART SECOND 257 

wind in the pastures ; she was afraid of the cattle, she 
took to running ; she arrived breathless, her cheeks red, 
and exhaling from all her person, a fresh perfume of 
moisture, of verdure, and of the open air. Rodolphe, 
at this hour, was still asleep. It was like the spring 
morning which entered his chamber. 

The yellow curtains which shaded the windows 
allowed to pass through them softly, a dull, pale light. 
Emma groped along, blinking her eyes, whilst the 
drops of dew clinging to her tresses made, as it were, 
an aureole of topazes all around her face. Rodolphe, 
laughing, drew her to him and he pressed her against 
his heart. 

Then she examined the apartment, she opened the 
drawers of his furniture, she combed herself with his 
comb and looked at herself in his shaving-glass. Fre- 
quently, she even put between her teeth the mouth- 
piece of a great pipe which was on the night table 
among the lemons and the pieces of sugar, by the side 
of a carafe of water. 

A good quarter of an hour was required for their 
parting. Then Emma wept ; she would have wished 
never to abandon Rodolphe. Something stronger than 
herself impelled her toward him, so much so that one 
day seeing her come unexpectedly, his visage contracted 
like that of someone who is vexed. 

" What is the matter with you?" she said. "Are 
you suffering? Speak to me ! " 



258 MADAME BOVARY 

Finally he declared to her with a serious air that her 
visits were becoming imprudent and that she was com- 
promising herself. 



X 



Little by little, these fears of Rodolphe gained upon 
her. Love had at first intoxicated her, and she had 
thought of nothing beyond. But, now, that it was 
indispensable to her life, she feared to lose something 
of it, or at least that it should be troubled. When she 
returned from seeing him, she cast all around her 
anxious looks, watched each figure that passed on the 
horizon and each garret window of the village from 
which she might be seen. She listened to the foot- 
steps, the cries, the noise of the ploughs, and she 
stopped whiter and more trembling than the leaves of 
the poplars which shook over her head. 

One morning when she was thus returning, she 
thought she suddenly perceived the long barrel of a 
carbine which seemed to be leveled at her. It issued 
obliquely from a little cask half-buried in the grass, on 
the edge of a ditch. Emma, ready to faint with terror, 
advanced nevertheless, and a man came out of the cask 
like one of those jumping-jacks which spring up in a 
box. He had gaiters buckled to his knees, his cap 



PART SECOND 259 

pulled down over his eyes, his lips trembling with cold, 
and his nose red. It was the Captain Binet, engaged 
in the chase of wild ducks. 

"You should have called out from a distance ! " he 
cried. " When you see a gun, it is always necessary to 
give notice." 

The collector in this way endeavored to conceal the 
fright which he had just experienced, for a prefectural 
decree having forbidden duck hunting, excepting in 
boats, Monsieur Binet, notwithstanding his respect for 
the laws, found himself violating them. Therefore, he 
expected at every minute the appearance of the rural 
policeman. But this disquietude excited his pleasure, 
and all alone in his cask he congratulated himself on 
his good fortune and his maliciousness. 

At the sight of Emma, he appeared to be relieved of 
a great weight, and immediately began a conversation : 

"It is not warm ; it is sharp / " 

Emma made no reply. He went on : 

" And you have come out very early ? " 

"Yes," she said, stammering, "I have just come 
from the nurse's house, where my child is." 

" Ah ! very well, very well ! As for me, just as you 
see me, I have been here from the break of day, but the 
weather is so dirty that unless you wear feathers to the 
end " 

"Good-evening, Monsieur Binet," she interrupted, 
turning on her heels. 



260 MADAME BOVARY 

"Your servant, madame," he replied curtly. 

And he re-entered his cask. 

Emma repented of having left the collector so 
brusquely. Doubtless he would make unfavorable con- 
jectures. The story of the nurse was the worst of 
excuses, everybody in Yonville knowing very well that 
the little Bovary had returned to her parents' house a 
year ago. 

Moreover, no one lived in the neighborhood ; that 
road led only to La Huchette ; Binet, then, had guessed 
from where she came ; and he would not keep silent, 
he would gabble, that was certain ! She remained all 
day torturing her mind with projects of all imaginable 
falsehoods, and having ceaselessly before her eyes this 
imbecile with the game-bag. 

Charles, after dinner, seeing her thoughtful, wished 
to distract her, to take her to the apothecary's, and the 
first person whom she saw in the pharmacy, it was 
again he, the collector ! He was standing before the 
counter, lit up by the light of the great red decanter, 
and he said : 

" Give me, if you please, a half-ounce of vitriol." 

" Justin ! " exclaimed the apothecary, " bring us the 
sulphuric acid ! " Then to Emma who wished to ascend 
to the apartment of Madame Homais : " No ! stay, it is 
not worth the trouble, she is coming down. Warm 

yourself at the stove while waiting . Excuse 

me . Good-day, doctor" — for the pharmacist took 



PART SECOND 261 

much pleasure in pronouncing this word doctor, as if, in 
addressing another, he would have reflected upon him- 
self some of the pomp which he found in it. — "But 
be careful of upsetting the mortars ! go, rather, and 
get some chairs from the little room ; you know very 
well that the armchairs in the salon are not to be 
disturbed. ' ' 

And, to put his armchair back in its place, Homais 
precipitated himself from behind the counter, when 
Binet asked him for a half-ounce of acid of sugar. 

"Acid of sugar!" said the druggist disdainfully, 
"I am not acquainted with it, I don't know it! 
You want, perhaps, oxalic acid? It is oxalic, is that 
not so?" 

Binet explained that he wanted a mordant to make 
for himself a solution of oxalic acid with which to 
remove the rust from some hunting implements. Emma 
shuddered. The pharmacist proceeded to say : 

" In fact, the weather is not propitious, because of 
the humidity." 

"However," replied the collector with a sly air, 
" there are persons who accommodate themselves to it." 

She was suffocating. 

" Give me also " 

" He will, then, never go away ! " she thought. 

" A half-ounce of resin and of turpentine, four ounces 
of yellow wax, and three half-ounces of bone-black, if 
you please, to clean the varnished leather of my outfit." 



262 MADAME BOVARY 

The apothecary commenced to cut the wax, when 
Madame Homais appeared with Irma in her arms, 
Napoleon at her side and Athalie who followed her. 
She went to seat herself on the velvet bench by the 
window, and the little boy crouched upon a stool, 
whilst his eldest sister wandered around the jujube-box, 
near to her little papa. He was filling funnels and 
corking flasks ; he pasted on labels ; he did up pack- 
ages. Everybody was silent around him ; and there 
could only be heard from time to time the tinkling 
of the weights in the balances with a few words in 
a low tone from the pharmacist, giving advice to his 
pupil. 

"How is your little one?" asked Madame Homais, 
suddenly. 

" Silence ! " exclaimed her husband, who was writing 
figures in his note-book. 

"Why have you not brought her?" she resumed in 
a lowered voice. 

"Sh! sh ! " said Emma, designating the apothecary 
with her finger. 

But Binet, absorbed in the reading of his bill, had 
probably heard nothing. Finally he went out. Then 
Emma, relieved, gave vent to a great sigh. 

" How strongly you breathe," said Madame Homais. 

"Ah ! it is because it is a little warm," she replied. 

Accordingly they took counsel together, the next 
day, to arrange their rendezvous. Emma wished to 



PART SECOND 263 

corrupt her servant by a gift ; but it would be better to 
discover in Yonville some discreet house. Rodolphe 
promised to look for one. 

During the entire winter, three or four times a week, 
he came to the garden after nightfall. Emma had 
purposely withdrawn the key of the gate, which Charles 
thought lost. 

To notify her, Rodolphe threw against the window- 
shades a handful of sand. She rose up suddenly ; but 
sometimes it was necessary to make him wait, for 
Charles had the mania of gabbling at the corner of the 
fire, and he would never finish. She was devoured with 
impatience ; if her eyes had had the power, they would 
have thrown him out of the window. Finally, she 
commenced her toilet for the night, then she took a 
book and continued to read very tranquilly as if the 
reading interested her. But Charles, who was in bed, 
called to her to come to rest. 

" Come then, Emma," he said, "it is time." 

"Yes, I am coming," she replied. 

However, as the light of the candles dazzled his eyes, 
he turned his face toward the wall and went to sleep. 
She made her escape retaining her breath, smiling, 
palpitating, half-unclothed. 

Rodolphe had a great cloak; he enveloped her 
in it completely, and, passing his arm around her 
waist, he drew her without speaking to the end of 
the garden. 



264 MADAME BOVARY 

It was under the arbor, on that same bench of decay- 
ing sticks on which formerly Leon had looked at her 
so lovingly during the summer evenings. She scarcely 
thought of him now. 

The stars shone through the leafless branches of the 
jessamine. They heard behind them the flowing river 
and from time to time, on the bank, the clapping of 
the dry reeds. The groups of trees, here and there, 
rose up in the darkness and sometimes shuddering 
throughout their mass with one movement, they rose 
and swayed like immense black waves which had 
advanced only to retire. The cold of the night made 
them clasp each other still more closely, the sighs of 
their lips seemed to them stronger; their eyes, which 
they could scarcely see, appeared to them larger, and, 
in the midst of the silence, there were words spoken 
very low which fell upon their souls with a crystal- 
line intonation and which reverberated in multiplied 
vibrations. 

When the night was rainy, they took refuge in the 
consultation cabinet, between the shed and the stable. 
She lit one of the kitchen candles which she had hid- 
den behind the books. Rodolphe installed himself 
there as though he were at home, the sight of the 
library and of the desk, of the whole apartment in fact, 
excited his mirth; and he could not restrain himself 
from indulging in a number of jests at Charles's 
expense which were embarrassing for Emma. She 



PART SECOND 265 

would have desired to have seen him more serious and 
even more dramatic to suit the occasion, as at that 
time when she thought she heard in the alley the sound 
of steps approaching. 

" Some one is coming," she said. 

He blew out the light. 

" Have you your pistols? " 

"Why?" 

"Why to defend yourself," replied Emma. 

" Against your husband ? Ah! the poor fellow." 

And Rodolphe finished his phrase with a gesture 
which signified, " I would crush him with a fillip." 

She was stupefied at his bravery, even although she 
was conscious in it of a sort of indelicacy and of naive 
coarseness which scandalized her. 

Rodolphe reflected a good deal on this incident of 
the pistols. 

If she had spoken seriously, that would have been 
very ridiculous, he thought, odious even, for he had 
not, himself, any reason for hating that good Charles, 
not being what is called devoured by jealousy ; — and 
on this point Emma had made a great vow to him, 
which he, for his part, did not think to be in the best 
taste. 

Moreover, she became very sentimental. It had 
been necessary to exchange miniatures, they had cut off 
locks of hair, and she now demanded a ring, a veritable 
circle of marriage, in token of an eternal alliance. 



266 MADAME BOVARY 

Often she spoke to him of the bells of evening, or of 
the voices of nature ; then she discoursed to him of her 
mother and of his. Rodolphe had lost his twenty years 
ago. Nevertheless, Emma consoled him for his loss, 
with little affectations of language, such as one would 
use to an abandoned infant, and she even said to him 
sometimes when looking at the moon : 

"I am sure that up there, together, they approve of 
our love." 

But she was so pretty ! he had had so little experience 
in the possession of such a candor ! this love without 
libertinism was for him something new, and which, 
drawing him out of his easy habits, pleased at once his 
pride and his sensuality. The exaltation of Emma, 
which his good bourgeois sense despised, seemed to 
him in the bottom of his heart charming, because it was 
addressed to his person. Then, sure of being loved, 
he did not constrain himself, and insensibly his man- 
ners changed. 

There were no more, as formerly, of those words so 
sweet that they made her weep, nor of those vehement 
caresses which made her foolish ; so that their great 
love in which she lived immersed seemed to dimin- 
ish under her like the water of a river which sinks 
into its bed ; and she perceived the slime at the bot- 
tom. She would not believe it ; she redoubled her 
tenderness; Rodolphe, less and less, concealed his 
indifference. 



PART SECOND 267 

She did not know whether she regretted having 
yielded to him or whether she would not have desired, 
on the contrary, to cherish him still more. The humil- 
iation of feeling herself feeble, changed itself into a 
rancor which voluptuousness tempered. It was not 
attachment, but like a permanent seduction. He sub- 
jugated her. She was almost afraid of him. 

Appearances, nevertheless, were more assuring than 
ever, Rodolphe having succeeded in conducting the 
adultery according to his wishes; and at the end of 
six months, when the spring arrived, they found them- 
selves occupying toward each other the position of two 
married people, who preserve tranquilly the domestic 
flame. 

It was at the period when Pere Rouault sent his tur- 
key-hen in remembrance of his restored leg. The gift 
always came with a letter. Emma cut the cord which 
enclosed the basket and read the following lines : 

"My Dear Children: 

" I hope that this present will find you in good health, 
and that this one, at least, will be as good as the others, 
for it seems to me a little more tender, if I may say so, 
and much larger. But the next time, for a change, I 
will send you a cock, unless you prefer the little ones, 
and send me back the game basket, if you please, with 
the two former ones. I have had a misfortune happen 
to my carthouse, the roof of which one night, when 



268 MADAME BOVARY 

the wind blew strongly, flew away into the trees. The 
harvest has not been very famous, either. Finally, I 
do not know when I can go to see you. It is so diffi- 
cult for me to quit the house, now that I am alone, my 
poor Emma ! ' ' 

And there was here an interval between the lines, as 
if the goodman had dropped his pen to muse a little 
while. 

"As for me, I am well, save a cold which I caught 
the other day at the fair at Yvetot, where I went to 
get a shepherd, having sent mine away because of his 
too great delicacy of appetite. What trouble one has 
with all these brigands ! Moreover, he was also dis- 
honest. 

" I have learned from a pedlar who, traveling this 
winter in your country, had had a tooth pulled out, 
that Bovary was always working hard. That does not 
astonish me, and he showed me his tooth ; we took a 
coffee together. I asked him if he saw thee, my 
daughter, he said no, but he had seen two animals in 
the stable, from which I conclude that trade is good. 
So much the better, my dear children, and may the 
good God send you all the happiness imaginable. 

" It gives me grief not to be yet acquainted with my 
well-beloved granddaughter, Berthe Bovary. I have 
planted for her in the garden, under thy chamber, a 



PART SECOND 269 

plum-tree of the prunes d'avome, and I do not wish 
that any one should touch it, unless it should be to 
make preserves, which I will keep in the cupboard for 
her when she comes. 

"Adieu, my dear children. I embrace thee, my 
daughter; you also, my son-in-law, and the little one 
on both cheeks. 

"I am, with many compliments, 
" Your tender father, 

"Theodore Rouault." 

She remained some minutes, holding between her 
fingers this coarse paper. The faults of orthography in 
it crowded each other ; and Emma pursued the pleasant 
thought which babbled all through it, like a hen half- 
hidden behind a hedge of thorns. The writing had 
been dried with ashes from the hearth, for a little gray 
dust slid from the letter upon her dress, and she seemed 
almost to see her father, stooping toward the hearth to 
take the tongs. How long it had been since she had 
been near him, on the stool, in the chimney-place, 
when she burned the end of the stick in the great fire 

of sea rushes which sparkled ! She remembered the 

afternoon sunsets full of sunlight. The colts whinnied 

when anyone passed by, and galloped, galloped 

There was under her window a hive of honey bees, and 
sometimes the insects, turning in the light, struck 
against the window-pane like balls of gold rebounding. 



270 MADAME BOVARY 

What happiness then ! what liberty ! what hope ! what 
wealth of illusions ! There no longer remained to her 
any, now ! She had expended them in all the adven- 
tures of her soul, through all the successive conditions, 
in virginity, in marriage, and in love ; losing them 
thus, all along her life, like a traveler who leaves some 
of his riches at every inn on the road. 

But who then rendered her so unhappy? where was 
this extraordinary catastrophe which had overthrown 
her ? And she lifted her head, looking all around her, 
as if to seek the cause of that which made her suffer. 

A ray of April sparkled and changed colors on the 
porcelains of the etagere ; the fire burned ; she felt 
under her slippers the softness of the carpet ; the day 
was clear, the atmosphere warm, and she heard her child 
uttering little cries of laughter. 

The little girl was rolling on the lawn, in the middle 
of the grass which was being spread. She was lying 
face down, at the edge of a rick of hay. Her nurse held 
her by the skirt, Lestiboudois was raking near her, and 
each time that he approached, she reached forward, 
beating the air with her two arms. 

"Bring her to me! " said her mother, running to 
embrace her. " How I love thee, my dear child, how 
I love thee ! ' ' 

Then, perceiving that the ends of her ears were 
not quite clean, she rang quickly for warm water and 
cleaned her, changed her linen, her stockings, her shoes, 



PART SECOND 271 

put a thousand questions about her health, as if return- 
ing from a journey, and, finally, kissing her again, and 
weeping a little, she returned her to the servant who 
was quite stupefied at this excessive tenderness. 

Rodolphe, that evening, found her more serious than 
usual. 

" That will pass," he concluded, " it is a caprice." 

And he failed to keep three rendezvous consecutively. 
Then, when he returned, she showed herself cold and 
almost disdainful. 

"Ah ! you are wasting your time, my mignonne." 

And he appeared not to notice her melancholy sighs 
nor the handkerchief which she held. 

It was then that Emma repented ! 

She even asked herself why she execrated Charles, 
and if it would not be better to be able to love him. 
But he did not offer any way for these returns of feel- 
ing, so that she remained very considerably embarrassed 
in her impulses to sacrifice, when the apothecary came, 
apropos, to furnish her with an occasion. 



XI 



He had read lately the praises of a new method for 
the cure of clubfeet ; and, as he was a partisan of prog- 
ress, he conceived this patriotic idea that Yonville, to 



272 MADAME BOVARY 

maintain itself at the level, should have operations for 
strephopody. 

"For," said he to Emma, "what will be risked? 
Examine " — and he enumerated upon his fingers the ad- 
vantages of the experiment — : "success almost certain, 
relief and embellishment of the patient, quick celebrity- 
acquired by the operator. Your husband, for example, 
why should he not wish to relieve this poor Hippolyte 
of the Lion a" Or? Observe that he would not fail to 
recount his cure to all the travelers, and then " — Homais 
lowered his voice and looked around him — "who then 
would prevent me from sending to the journal a little 
note concerning it ? Eh ! mon Dieu ! an article circu- 
lates people speak of it that ends by increas- 
ing like a snowball ! and who knows ? who knows ?' ' 

In fact, Bovary might succeed ; nothing assured 
Emma that he was not skilful ; and what satisfaction 
for her to have persuaded him to an undertaking in 
which both his fortune and his reputation should gain ! 
She only asked for something to lean upon more solid 
than love. 

Charles, persuaded by the apothecary and by her, 
allowed himself to be convinced. He had a volume 
of Doctor Duval sent from Rouen ; and every evening, 
taking his head between his two hands, he buried him- 
self in this reading. 

While he was thus studying the clubfoot which walks 
on the toe, the inversion of the foot, the eversion of 



PART SECOND 273 

the foot, that is to say, the strephocatopody, the 
strephendopody, and the strephexopody — or, to speak 
more clearly, the different deviations of the foot, 
whether from below, from within or from without, — 
with the strephypopody and the strephanopody — other- 
wise torsion from below and straightening again from 
above* — Monsieur Homais, by all sorts of reasonings, 
exhorted the inn-servant to allow himself to be operated 
upon. 

"All that you will feel will be perhaps a slight pain ; 
it is a simple pricking like a little bleeding, less than 
the extirpation of certain corns." 

Hippolyte, reflecting, rolled his stupid eyes. 

"For the rest," resumed the pharmacist, "it does not 
concern me ! it is for you ! for pure humanity ! I would 
like to see you, my friend, relieved of your hideous lame- 
ness with that swinging of the lumbar region which, 
whatever you may pretend, must be very inconvenient 
for you in the exercise of your avocations. ' ' 

Then Homais represented to him how he would feel 
himself afterwards much more jovial and more nimble, 
and even gave him to understand that he would find 
himself in better condition to please the women. And 
the stableman began to smile heavily. Then he attacked 
him on the side of vanity : 

"Are you not a man, saprelotte / 7 7 what would it be 

then if you had had to serve to go to combat 

under the colors ! *- Ah ! Hippolyte ! " 



274 MADAME BOVARY 

And Homais went away, declaring that he could not 
comprehend this obstinacy, this blindness in refusing 
one's self to the benefits of science. 

The unfortunate yielded, for it was like a conspiracy. 
Binet, who never meddled with the affairs of others, 
Madame Lefrancois, Artemise, the neighbors, and even 
the mayor, Monsieur Tuvache, everybody argued with 
him, sermonized him, made him ashamed; but that 
which finally decided him, was that it would cost him 
nothing. Bovary even undertook to furnish the machine 
in which to enclose his member after the operation. 
Emma had suggested this generosity ; and Charles con- 
sented to it, saying in the bottom of his heart that his 
wife was an angel. 

With the counsels of the pharmacist, and by begin- 
ning three times over, he had then constructed by the 
joiner, aided by the locksmith, a sort of a box weighing 
about eight pounds and in which the iron, the wood, 
the sheet-iron, the leather, the screws, and the nuts 
were not spared. 

However, in order to know what tendon to cut for 
Hippolyte, it was necessary to know at first what sort 
of a clubfoot he had. 

He had a foot making with the leg almost a straight 
line, which did not prevent it from being turned 
inward, in such a manner that it was an equin com- 
bined with a little of the varus, or, rather, a slight 
varus closely allied with equin. But on this iquin } as 



PART SECOND 275 

large in fact as a horse's foot, with a rugose skin, with 
dry tendons, with great toes, and where the black nails 
represented the nails of a horseshoe, the strephopode, 
from morning until night, galloped like a deer. He 
could be seen continually on the Place, jumping all 
around the carts and throwing out in advance his 
unequal support. He seemed even more vigorous on 
that leg than on the other. Through having served so 
much, it seemed to have contracted, as it were, the 
moral qualities of patience and of energy, and when he 
was given some heavy work, he leaned upon it through 
preference. 

Now, since it was an equin, walking on the toe, it 
was necessary to cut the tendon of Achilles, sufficient 
for the time being, with the anterior tibial muscles to 
be taken up later in order to relieve the varus; but the 
medical man did not dare at one stroke to risk two 
operations, and he even trembled already in the fear 
of attacking some important region with which he was 
unacquainted. 

Not Ambroise Pare, applying for the first time since 
Celsus, after an interval of fifteen centuries, the imme- 
diate ligature of an artery; nor Dupuytren about to 
open an abscess through a thick layer of encephalos; 
nor Gensoul when he performed the first excision of the 
superior maxillary, had, certainly, a heart so palpi- 
tating, a hand so trembling, the intellect so tense, as 
Monsieur Bovary when he approached Hippolyte, his 



276 MADAME BOVARY 

tenotome between his fingers. And, as in the hospitals, 
there was to be seen at the side on a table, a pile of 
lint, waxed threads, a great many bandages, a pyramid 
of bandages, all the bandages there were at the apothe- 
cary's. It was Monsieur Homais who had organized in 
the morning all these preparations, as much to dazzle 
the multitude as to delude himself. Charles cut the 
skin ; there was heard a dry cracking. The tendon 
was cut, the operation was finished. Hippolyte could 
not recover from his surprise ; he leaned over the hands 
of Bovary to cover them with kisses. 

"Come, calm yourself," said the apothecary, "you 
shall display later your gratitude towards your bene- 
factor!" 

And he descended to relate the result to five or six of 
the curious, who were stationed in the courtyard and who 
imagined that Hippolyte was going to reappear, walk- 
ing straight. Then Charles, having buckled his patient 
in the mechanical motor, returned home where Emma, 
very anxious, was waiting for him in the doorway. She 
fell on his neck; they sat down to dine; he ate a great 
deal; and he even wished at dessert to take a cup of 
coffee, a debauch which he only permitted himself on 
Sundays, when there was company. 

The evening was charming, full of conversation, of 
dreams of the future in common. They spoke of 
their future fortune, of improvements to introduce into 
their household; he saw his reputation extending, his 



PART SECOND 277 

prosperity augmenting, his wife loving him always; and 
she found herself happy to refresh herself in a new senti- 
ment, one more wholesome, better, in short to experience 
some tenderness for this poor fellow who cherished her. 
The thought of Rodolphe, for a moment, passed through 
her head; but her eyes turned again on Charles. She 
even noticed with surprise that he had not very bad teeth. 

They were in bed when Monsieur Homais, in spite of 
the cook, entered suddenly in the chamber, holding in 
his hand a sheet of paper freshly written. It was the 
notice which he destined for the Fanal de Rouen. He 
brought it to them to read. 

"Read it yourself," said Bovary. 

He read: — "Despite the prejudices which cover still, 
like a net-work, a part of the face of Europe, the light 
however commences to penetrate into our countries. 
It is thus that on Tuesday, our little city of Yonville 
has seen itself the theatre of a surgical experience 
which is, at the same time, an act of high philan- 
thropy: Monsieur Bovary, one of our most distin- 
guished practitioners ' ' 

"Ah ! it is too much ! it is too much ! " said Charles, 
who was suffocating with emotion. 

"But no, not at all! How then? 'has 

operated on a clubfoot. ' I have not used the scientific 
term because, you know, in a newspaper every- 
body perhaps would not understand it ; it is necessary 
that the masses ' ' 



278 MADAME BOVARY 

' ' That is so, ' ' said Bovary . ' ' Continue. ' ' 

"I resume," said the pharmacist 

"Monsieur Bovary, one of our most distinguished 
practitioners, has operated on a clubfoot on one Hippo- 
lyte Tautain, stableboy for twenty-five years at the 
hotel of the Lion d ' Or, kept by the widow Madame 
Lefrancois, on the Place d'Armes. The novelty of the 
attempt and the interest which is attached to the sub- 
ject had attracted such a concourse of the population 
that there was a veritable block on the threshold of the 
establishment. The operation in itself was performed 
as if by enchantment, and but a few drops of blood 
appeared upon the skin as if to testify that the rebellious 
tendon had finally yielded under the efforts of art. 
The patient, a strange thing — we affirm it de visu, — had 
experienced no pain whatever. His condition, up to 
the present, leaves nothing to be desired. Everything 
leads to the belief that his convalescence will be short ; 
and who knows even if, at the next village festival, we 
shall not see our brave Hippolyte figuring in the 
Bacchic dances, in the midst of a chorus of joyous 
comrades, and thus proving to all eyes by his spirit and 
his capers, his complete cure? Honor then to the 
generous savants ! honor to those indefatigable spirits 
who consecrate their studies to the amelioration or 
indeed to the solacing of their kind ! Honor ! thrice 
honor! Is it not an occasion for rejoicing when the 
blind shall see, the deaf shall hear, and the lame shall 



PART SECOND 279 

walk? But that which fanaticism formerly promised to 
its followers, science to-day accomplishes for all men. 
We will keep our readers informed of the successive 
phases of this so remarkable cure." 

Which did not prevent, five days later, the Mere 
Lefrancois from arriving all terrified and crying : 
" Help ! he is dying ! I shall lose my senses ! " 

Charles precipitated himself towards the Lion d ' Or, 
and the pharmacist, who saw him passing through the 
Place without his hat, abandoned the pharmacy. He 
appeared himself, breathless, red, anxious, and demand- 
ing of all those who mounted the stairway : 

" What is the matter with him then, our interesting 
strephopode ? ' ' 

He was writhing, the strephopode, in atrocious con- 
vulsions, so much so that the mechanical motor in 
which his leg was enclosed struck against the wall as if 
to demolish it. 

With a great many precautions, so as not to disar- 
range the position of the member, the box was with- 
drawn and a frightful spectacle presented itself. The 
shape of the foot disappeared under such a swelling 
that the entire skin seemed ready to burst, and it was 
covered with ecchymoses produced by the famous ma- 
chine. Hippolyte had already been complaining of it; 
but no attention had been paid to him. It was neces- 
sary to admit that he had not been completely in the 
wrong, and he was left free for a few hours. But scarcely 



280 MADAME BOVARY 

had the oedema begun to disappear than the two savants 
judged it appropriate to put the limb back in the appa- 
ratus and they closed it a little tighter, to accelerate 
the affair. Finally, three days later, Hippolyte not 
being able to contain himself any longer, they took off 
the mechanism once more, being very much surprised 
at the result which they perceived. A livid tumefac- 
tion extended all over the leg and with phlyctenes in 
various spots, from which issued a black liquid. Things 
were taking a serious turn. Hippolyte commenced to 
be wearied, and the Mere Lefrancois installed him in 
the little room near the kitchen, where he could have, 
at least, some distraction. 

But the collector, who dined there every day, com- 
plained bitterly of such a neighbor. Accordingly Hip- 
polyte was transported into the billiard room. 

He was there, whimpering under his heavy coverings, 
pale, his beard long, his eyes hollow and from time to 
time turning his sweating head upon the dirty pillow- 
case where the flies settled. Madame Bovary came to 
see him. She brought him linens for his cataplasms 
and consoled him, encouraged him. For that matter, 
he did not want for company, on market days especially, 
when the peasants all around him knocked the billiard 
balls about, fenced with the cues, smoked, drank, sang, 
bawled. 

"How are you getting along?" they said, slapping 
him on the shoulder. "Ah ! you are not very proud, it 



PART SECOND 281 

seems ! but it is your own fault. You must have this 
done, you must have that done." And they related to 
him stories of people who had been quite cured by 
other remedies than his. Then, as a sort of consola- 
tion, they added: "It is that you listen too much to 
what is told you ! get up then ! you coddle yourself like 
a king ! Ah ! never mind, old joker ! you do not feel 
very well ! ' ' 

The gangrene, in fact, mounted higher and higher. 
Bovary was sick of it himself. He came every hour, 
constantly. Hippolyte looked at him, his eyes full of 
fright and stammered, sobbing : 

" When shall I be cured ? Ah ! save me ! How 

sick I am ! oh ! how sick I am ! " and the doctor went 
away, always recommending him to diet. 

"Do not listen to him, my lad," said the Mere 
Lefrancois, "they have already martyred you enough ! 
you will make yourself only still weaker. Here ; take 
this ! " And she presented him with some good soup, 
some slices of mutton, some pieces of bacon, and 
sometimes with little glasses of brandy which he did 
not have the courage to carry to his lips. 

The Abbe Bournisien, hearing that he was growing 
worse, demanded to see him. He commenced by sym- 
pathizing with him because of his illness, whilst declar- 
ing at the same time that he should rejoice in it since 
it was the will of the Lord, and profit promptly by the 
opportunity to effect his reconciliation with Heaven. 



282 MADAME BOVARY 

"For," said the ecclesiastic, in a paternal tone, 
" you have neglected somewhat your duties ; you are 
rarely seen at divine service ; how many years is it 
since you have approached the communion table ? I 
can understand that your occupation, that the distrac- 
tions of the world have been able to make you neglect- 
ful of the care of your salvation. But at present, it is 
the hour for reflection. Do not despair, however; I 
have known great sinners, who, on the point of appear- 
ing before God — you have not yet come to this, I know 
very well, — had implored His mercy, and who certainly 
have died in the most peaceful frame of mind. Let us 
hope that, quite like them, you will set us a good 
example ! Thus, by way of precaution, what prevents 
you from reciting morning and evening a ' I salute you, 
Mary, full of pardon,' and a 'Our Father, who art in 
Heaven ? ' Yes, do that ! for me, to oblige me. What 

is it that that will cost you ? Will you promise it 

to me?" 

The poor devil promised. The cure returned on the 
following days. He talked to the innkeeper, and even 
related anecdotes intermingled with pleasantries, with 
puns which Hippolyte did not understand. Then, as 
soon as circumstances permitted, he fell back upon mat- 
ters of religion, assuming an appropriate expression. 

His zeal seemed to succeed, for presently the streph- 
opode testified a desire to go on a pilgrimage to the 
Bon-Secours if he should be cured, to which Monsieur 



PART SECOND 283 

Bournisien replied that he saw no objection. Two pre- 
cautions were better than one. There would be no risks. 

The apothecary was indignant at what he called the 
machinations of the priest ; they were retarding, he pre- 
tended, the convalescence of Hippolyte and he repeated 
to Madame Lefrancois : " Let him alone ! let him alone ! 
you disturb his mind with your mysticism ! ' ' 

But the good woman would not listen to him. He 
was the cause of everything. Through a spirit of con- 
tradiction, she even hung at the sick man's bedside a 
holy-water vessel, quite full, with a branch of box- 
wood. 

However, religion, no more than surgery, seemed to 
help him, and the invincible mortification mounted 
steadily from the extremities toward the stomach. 
They might vary the potions, and change the cata- 
plasms, the muscles each day seemed more and more 
disintegrated, and finally Charles replied with an affirm- 
ative sign of the head when the Mere Lefrancois asked 
him if she could not, in the hopeless state of the case, 
summon Monsieur Canivet, of Neufchatel, who was a 
celebrity. 

A doctor in medicine of the age of fifty, enjoying an 
assured position and very self-confident, the fellow pro- 
fessional did not restrain himself from laughing scorn- 
fully when he perceived this leg gangrened to the knee. 
Then, having declared flatly that amputation would be 
necessary, he went into the pharmacist's establishment 



284 MADAME BOVARY 

to rail against the asses who could reduce an unfortu- 
nate man to such a condition. Shaking Monsieur 
Homais by the button of his frock coat, he vociferated 
in the pharmacy : 

' ' These are your Paris inventions ! Here you have 
an idea of those gentlemen of the capital ! It is like 
strabismus, chloroform, and lithotrity, a heap of mon- 
strosities which the government ought to forbid ! But 
one wishes to be smart, and one crams you full of reme- 
dies without bothering about the consequences. We 
are not so clever as that, we others, we are not savants, 
pretty gentlemen, benevolent hearts ; we are practition- 
ers, curers, and it never occurs to us to operate on any 
one who is perfectly well ! To straighten out clubfeet ! 
Is it that clubfeet can be straightened out ? it is as if 
you should try, for instance, to straighten a hump- 
back ! " 

Homais suffered in listening to this discourse, and he 
dissimulated his uneasiness under a courteous smile, 
being under the necessity of placating Monsieur Cani- 
vet whose prescription sometimes reached Yonville ; 
therefore, he did not take up the defence of Bovary nor 
did he make, in fact, any observation, and, abandoning 
his principles, he sacrificed his dignity to the more 
serious interest of his business. 

In the village this was a considerable event, this 
amputation of the thigh by the Doctor Canivet ! All 
the inhabitants on that day had risen at an early hour, 



PART SECOND 285 

and the main street, although full of people, had some- 
thing of a lugubrious air as if a capital execution were 
on foot. The illness of Hippolyte was discussed in the 
grocery ; the shops sold nothing, and Madame Tuvache, 
the mayor's wife, did not stir from her window in her 
impatience to see the operator arrive. 

He came in his cabriolet, which he drove himself. 
But the spring on the right side, having, in the course 
of time, weakened under his corpulence, it came to 
pass that the carriage leaned a little to one side as it 
went along, and there could be seen on the other 
cushion beside him a vast box, covered with red sheep- 
skin, the three brass clasps of which glittered in a mag- 
istral manner. 

When he arrived like a whirlwind under the porch of 
the Lion d' Or, the doctor, in a very loud voice, ordered 
his horse to be unharnessed; then he went into the 
stable himself to see if he was eating his oats well ; for 
on arriving at the house of his patients, he occupied 
himself at first with his mare and his cabriolet. People 
said, on this account: "Ah, Monsieur Canivet, he is 
an original ! ' ' And he was estimated all the more 
highly for this unshakable assurance. The universe 
might have crumbled to the very last man, and he 
would not have varied in the least of his habits. 

Homais made his appearance. 

"I count upon you," said the doctor. "Are we 
ready ? Forward ! ' ' 



286 MADAME BOVARY 

The apothecary, blushing, admitted that he was too 
sensitive to assist at such an operation. 

"When one is a simple spectator," he said, "the 
imagination, you know, becomes excited ! And then, 
I am of such a nervous temperament ' ' 

"Ah! bah!" interrupted Canivet, "you seem to 
be, on the contrary, disposed to apoplexy. And, more- 
over, this does not surprise me, for you pharmacist- 
gentlemen, you are continually shut up in your kitchens, 
which must finish by affecting your temperament. 
Look at me, rather; every day I arise at four o'clock, 
I shave myself in cold water — I am never cold, — and I 
do not wear flannel, I never catch any cold in my head, 
the chest is good ! I live sometimes in one way, some- 
times in another, like a philosopher, at the chance of a 
knife and fork. This is why I am not delicate like you, 
and it is exactly the same to me to cut up a Christian 
or the first chicken that comes along. After that will 
you say habit habit ? ' ' 

Then, without the slightest regard for Hippolyte, 
who was sweating with agony in his bed-clothes, these 
gentlemen engaged in a conversation in which the 
apothecary compared the coolness of a surgeon to that 
of a general; and this comparison was agreeable to 
Canivet, who expanded in a flow of words on the exi- 
gencies of his art. He considered it to be a priesthood, 
although the Officier de Sante dishonored it. Finally, 
returning to the sick man, he examined the bandages 



PART SECOND 287 

brought by Homais, the same which had appeared at 
the time of the clubfoot, and demanded someone to 
hold the member. They sent for Lestiboudois, and 
Monsieur Canivet, having rolled up his sleeves, passed 
into the billiard-room, whilst the apothecary remained 
with Artemise and the innkeeper, both of them whiter 
than their aprons and their ears strained toward the 
door. 

Bovary, during this time, did not dare to stir out of 
his house. He kept himself on the lower floor, in the 
sitting-room, seated at the corner of the fireless chim- 
ney, his chin on his chest, his hands joined, his eyes 
fixed. What a misfortune ! he thought, what a disap- 
pointment ! He had, however, taken all imaginable 
precautions. There was a fatality connected with it. 
That did not matter ! if Hippolyte, later, should die, 
it would be he who had assassinated him ! And then, 
what reason would he give in his visits when he was 
interrogated ? Perhaps, however, he had made a mis- 
take in something? He searched, but could not find 
anything. But the most famous surgeons make mis- 
takes. This is what no one would believe ! On the 
contrary, everyone would laugh, would clamor ! It 
would spread as far as Forges ! as far as Neufchatel ! as 
far as Rouen ! everywhere ! Who knows if his fellow- 
practitioners would not write against him ? A discus- 
sion would follow ! it would be necessary to reply in 
the journals. Hippolyte, even, could bring an action 



288 MADAME BOVARY 

against him. He saw himself dishonored, ruined, lost ! 
And his imagination, assailed by a multitude of hypoth- 
eses, tossed about in the midst of them like an empty 
cask, carried away by the sea, and which pitches among 
the waves. 

Emma, opposite to him, looked at him ; she did not 
share his humiliation; she experienced another. It 
was to have imagined that such a man could ever be 
worth anything, as if twenty times already she had not 
been made sufficiently aware of his mediocrity. 

Charles walked up and down the chamber. His boots 
creaked on the floor. 

"Sit down," she said, "you make me nervous! " 

He sat down again. 

How was it that she had — she who was so intelligent — 
been able to deceive herself one time more? More- 
over, by what deplorable folly had she thus been 
brought to bury her existence in continual sacrifices ! 
She recalled all her luxurious instincts, all the priva- 
tions of her soul, the base things of marriage, of the 
household, her dreams falling in the mud like wounded 
swallows, all that she had desired, all that she had 
refused, all that she might have been able to have ! and 
why? why? 

In the midst of the silence which filled the village, a 
heart-breaking cry rang out on the air. Bovary became 
as pale as though he were about to faint. Emma knit her 
eyebrows with a nervous movement, then continued. 



PART SECOND 289 

It was for him, however, for this being! for this 
man, who comprehended nothing, who felt nothing! 
For there he was, quite tranquil, and not even suspect- 
ing that the ridicule of his name would henceforth soil 
her as it did him. And she had made efforts to love 
him, and she had repented, weeping, for having yielded 
to another ! 

"But perhaps there was a valgus!" suddenly ex- 
claimed Bovary, who was meditating. 

At the unforeseen shock of this phrase, falling on her 
thoughts like a leaden ball on a silver plate, Emma, 
shuddering, lifted her head to discover what he wished 
to say; — and they looked at each other silently, almost 
stupefied to see each other, so very wide apart they 
were consciously from each other. Charles looked at 
her with the troubled regard of a drunken man, while 
listening, motionless, to the last cries of the amputated 
man which followed each other in long drawn-out 
modulations, cut here and there with sharp accents, 
like the distant howling of some animal whose throat is 
being cut. Emma bit her white lips; and, rolling 
between her fingers one of the pieces of the polypier 
which she had broken off, she darted upon Charles two 
burning glances, like two arrows of fire ready to be 
launched. Everything about him irritated her now, 
his face, his costume, that which he did not say, his 
entire person, his existence, in short. She repented as 
of a crime, of her past virtue, and that which still 



290 



MADAME BOVARY 



remained to her crumbled under the furious strokes of 
her pride. She delighted herself in all the evil ironies 
of triumphant adultery. The recollections of her lover 
returned to her with dizzying attractions; she threw 
out her soul to it, carried away toward this image by a 
new enthusiasm ; and Charles seemed to her as detached 
from her life, as absent forever, as impossible and abol- 
ished, as if he were going to die and were in his agony 
under her eyes. 

But there was a sound of footsteps on the pavement. 
Charles looked out ; and through the lowered shades, 
he perceived at the edge of the market, in full sunlight, 
the Doctor Canivet, who was wiping his forehead with 
his handkerchief. Homais, behind him, carried in his 
hand a great red box and they were both directing their 
steps toward the pharmacy. 

Then, through a sudden tenderness and discourage- 
ment, Charles turned to his wife, saying to her: 

"Embrace me, my dear!" 

"Leave me alone ! " she said, red with anger. 

"What's the matter with you? what is the matter 
with you?" he repeated, stupefied. "Calm yourself! 

compose yourself! You know very well that I love 

you ! — come now ! " 

"Enough! " she cried, with a terrible air. 

And, escaping from the sitting-room, Emma closed the 
door behind her so furiously that the barometer bounded 
from the wall and broke to pieces on the floor. 



PART SECOND 291 

Charles collapsed in his armchair, overwhelmed, 
searching in his mind the possible cause of her action, 
imagining a nervous malady, weeping and feeling 
vaguely circulate around him something fatal and 
incomprehensible. 

When Rodolphe, that evening, arrived in the garden, 
he found his mistress who was waiting for him at the 
bottom of the perron, on the first step. They embraced 
each other, and all their rancor melted like snow under 
the warmth of this kiss. 



XII 



They recommenced loving each other. Often, even 
in the middle of the day, Emma suddenly wrote to 
him; then, through the window she made a sign to 
Justin, who, quickly untying his coarse apron, flew over 
to La Huchette. Rodolphe arrived; it was to say to 
him that she was weary of everything, that her husband 
was odious and her existence frightful ! 

"Can I do anything about it?" he cried, one day, 
impatiently. 

"Ah, if you would? " 

She was seated on the ground between his knees, her 
hair unloosened, her looks wandering. 



292 MADAME BOVARY 

"What, then?" said Rodolphe. 

She sighed: 

"We could live elsewhere somewhere " 

"You are crazy, truly!" he said, laughing. "Is it 
possible ? ' ' 

She returned to the subject; he did not seem to 
understand her and turned the conversation. 

That which he did not comprehend, was so much 
trouble in a thing as simple as love. She had a 
motive, a reason, and, as it were, an auxiliary for her 
attachment. 

This tenderness, in fact, increased still more each 
day under the repulsiveness of the husband, and the 
more she delivered herself to one, the more she exe- 
crated the other; never had Charles appeared to her 
so disagreeable, to have fingers so square, a mind so 
heavy, manners so common, as after her rendezvous 
with Rodolphe, when they found themselves together. 
Then, while all the time playing the part of a wife and 
a virtuous one, she was on fire with the thought of that 
head, the black hair of which changed into curls on the 
sunburnt forehead, of that figure at once so robust and 
so elegant, of that man, in short, who combined so 
much experience with judgment, so much animation in 
desire ! It was for him that she polished her nails with 
the care of a carver, and that there was never sufficient 
cold cream on her skin nor of patchouli on her hand- 
kerchiefs. She loaded herself with bracelets, with rings 



PART SECOND 293 

and with necklaces. When he was to come, she filled 
with roses her two great vases of blue glass and arranged 
her apartment and her person like a courtier who expects 
a prince. It was necessary that her servant should be 
ceaselessly washing her linen ; and Felicite did not stir 
all day long from her kitchen, where the little Justin, 
who often kept her company, watched her working. 

His elbows on the long board on which she ironed, 
he looked eagerly at all these feminine affairs spread 
around her, the dimity petticoats, the fichus, the collar- 
ettes, the drawers with gathering-strings large at the 
hips and which narrowed at the bottom. 

" What are these for?" demanded the youth, passing 
his hand over the crinoline or the clasps. 

''You have then never seen them?" replied Felicity, 
laughing; "as if your master's wife, Madame Homais, 
did not wear such things." 

"Ah! well yes! Madame Homais!" and he added 
in a thoughtful tone, " Is she a lady like madame ?" 

But Felicite grew tired of seeing him thus revolving 
around her. She was six years the older, and Theodore, 
the domestic of Monsieur Guillaumin, was commencing 
to make love to her. 

"Leave me alone!" she said, moving her pot of 
starch. " Do go away, rather, and pound your 
almonds ; you are always hanging around the skirts 
of the women ; wait before doing that, you wicked 
brat, until you have a beard on your chin." 



294 MADAME BOVARY 

" Come now, do not be vexed, I am going to do her 
boots for you." 

And immediately he went to take from the window- 
casing Emma's boots, thick with mud — the mud of the 
rendezvous — which came off in powder under his fingers 
and which he watched mounting slowly in a ray of sun- 
light. 

" How much you are afraid of hurting them ! " said 
the cook, who was not so careful when she cleaned them 
herself, because madame, as soon as they were a little 
worn, gave them to her. Emma had a number in her 
wardrobe, and she squandered them accordingly, with- 
out Charles permitting himself the slightest observation. 

In this same manner also, he expended three hundred 
francs for a wooden leg of which she thought it advis- 
able to make a present to Hippolyte. The stick was 
furnished with cork and there were spring-joints, a 
complicated mechanism covered with a black panta- 
loon, terminated by a varnished boot. But Hippolyte, 
not daring to use such a beautiful leg every day, 
entreated Madame Bovary to procure him another, 
more convenient. The doctor, be it understood, met 
the expense of this acquisition also. 

The stableman then, little by little, resumed his avo- 
cations. He could be seen as formerly traversing the 
village, and when Charles heard from a distance, on 
the pavements, the sharp sound of his stick, he quickly 
took another road. 



PART SECOND 295 

It was Monsieur L'Heureux, the merchant, who was 
charged with this commission; which furnished him 
with opportunities for seeing Emma several times. 
He talked with her of new articles from Paris, of a 
thousand feminine curiosities, showed himself very 
obliging, and never asked for money. Emma gave 
herself up to this facility for satisfying all her caprices. 
Thus she wished to obtain, to give to Rodolphe, a fine 
riding-whip which could be had in Rouen, in an um- 
brella establishment. Monsieur L'Heureux the follow- 
ing week laid it upon her table. 

But the following day, he presented himself before 
her with a bill for two hundred and seventy francs, 
without counting the centimes. Emma was very much 
embarrassed ; all the drawers of the secretary were 
empty; they were owing Lestiboudois for more than 
two weeks, the servant for two quarters, a quantity of 
other things still, and Bovary was waiting impatiently 
for the payment from Monsieur Derozerais, who had 
the habit of settling each year about Saint Peter's 
day. 

She succeeded at first in putting off L'Heureux; 
finally, he lost patience, — he was being dunned him- 
self; all his funds were elsewhere; and if he did 
not come into possession of some of them, he would 
be forced to take back all the merchandise that she 
had. 

" Eh ! take them back ! " said Emma. 



296 MADAME BOVARY 

"Oh! that's a little joke," he replied. "Only, I 
regret nothing but the whip. Ma foi! I will ask for 
it again for monsieur." 

"No ! no ! " she said. 

"Ah ! I see," thought L'Heureux. 

And, sure of his discovery, he went out, repeating to 
himself under his breath and with his little habitual 
whistle : 

" So be it ! we shall see ! we shall see ! " 

She was wondering how she could extricate herself 
from this, when the cook, entering, placed upon the 
chimney-piece a little cylinder of blue paper on Mon- 
sieur Derozerais' account. Emma leaped upon it, 
opened it. There were in it fifteen napoleons. It was 
the full amount. She heard Charles on the stairs ; she 
threw the gold to the bottom of her drawer and took 
the key. 

Three days later, L'Heureux reappeared. 

" I have an arrangement to propose to you," he said, 
"if instead of the sum agreed upon, you are willing to 
take " 

"There they are," she said, placing in his hand 
fourteen napoleons. 

The merchant was stupefied. Then, to hide his dis- 
appointment, he broke out into excuses and into offers 
of service, all of which Emma refused; then she 
remained for some minutes feeling in the pocket of her 
apron the two pieces of a hundred sous which he had 



PART SECOND 297 

returned to her. She promised herself to economize in 
order to pay it back later. 

"Ah, bah!" she thought to herself, " Charles will 
think of it no more. ' ' 

In addition to the whip with the silver-gilt handle, 
Rodolphe had received a seal with this device, Amor 
net cor ; moreover, a scarf to serve as a muffler, and 
finally a cigar-case quite like that of the viscount 
which Charles had formerly picked up on the road and 
which Emma had preserved. However, these gifts 
humiliated him. He refused several of them, she 
insisted, and Rodolphe finished by obeying her, think- 
ing her somewhat tyrannical and too forward. Then 
she had strange ideas : 

" When midnight sounds," she said, "you will think 
of me!" 

And if he admitted not having thought of her there 
were reproaches in abundance, and which terminated 
always by the eternal phrase : 

"Do you love me?" 

" Why, yes, I love you ! " he replied. 

"A great deal?" 

"Certainly!" 

"You have not loved any others, hein?" 

"Do you think that you found me a virgin?" he 
exclaimed, laughing. 

Emma wept, and he set himself to consoling her, 
lightening his protestations with puns. 



298 MADAME BOVARY 

"Oh ! it is because I love you !" she resumed, "I 
love you so as not to be able to do without you, do you 
know it well ? I long sometimes to see you again and 
then all the tempests of love tear me. I ask myself: 
' Where is he ? Perhaps he is speaking to other women ? 

They smile upon him, he approaches them ' Oh, no, 

is it not so, none of them pleases you ? There are some 
that are more beautiful, but I, I know how to love better ! 
I am your servant and your concubine ! you are my king ! 
my idol! you are good! beautiful! intelligent! strong!" 

He had heard these things so many times, that they 
had no originality for him. Emma resembled all other 
mistresses ; and the charm of novelty, falling off little 
by little like a garment, left to be seen in this naked- 
ness the eternal monotony of passion, which has always 
the same forms and the same language. He did not 
distinguish, this man so practical, the dissimilarity of 
feeling under the similarity of expression. Because 
libertine or venal lips had murmured similar phrases, 
he believed but slightly in the sincerity of these ; one 
should always deduct something, he thought, exagger- 
ated discourses concealing mediocre affections ; as if the 
fulness of the soul did not overflow sometimes by the 
most empty metaphors, since no one ever can give the 
exact measure of his needs, nor of his conceptions, nor 
of his sorrows, and since human speech is like a cracked 
kettle, on which we beat melodies for dancing bears, 
when we wish to affect the stars. 



PART SECOND 299 

But with this superiority of criticism, appertaining 
to the one who, no matter in what engagement, remains 
in the rear, Rodolphe perceived in this love other 
enjoyments to exploit. He considered all modesty 
inconvenient. He treated her without consideration. 
He made of her something supple and corrupted. It 
was a sort of idiotic attachment, full of admiration for 
him, of voluptuousness for her, a beatitude which 
benumbed her ; and her soul sank in this drunkenness 
and drowned itself in it, shrivelled up, like the Duke of 
Clarence in his cask of malmsey. 

By the effect alone of her amorous habits, Madame 
Bovary changed her appearance. Her looks became 
bolder, her discourse freer; she even had the impro- 
priety to promenade with Monsieur Rodolphe, a cigar- 
ette in her mouth, as if to snap her fingers at everybody ; 
finally, those who doubted, doubted no longer, when 
she was seen one day descending from the Hirondelle, 
her waist compressed in a waistcoat like a man's; and 
Madame Bovary, the elder, who, after a frightful scene 
with her husband, had taken refuge in her son's house, 
was not the feminine bourgeois the least scandalized. 
Many other things displeased her; in the first place, 
Charles had not listened to her advice about the inter- 
diction of novels ; then, the style of the house displeased 
her; she permitted herself to make observations, and 
there was indignation, one time especially, apropos of 
Felicite. 



300 MADAME BOVARY 

The elder Madame Bovary, the evening before, in 
going through the corridor, had surprised her in the 
company of a man, a man with a brown collar, of about 
forty years of age, and who, at the sound of her foot- 
steps, had quickly escaped from the kitchen. Then 
Emma commenced to laugh ; but the good lady became 
excited, declaring that instead of mocking at morality, 
one should keep a watch over that of the servants. 

"To what class of society do you belong?" said 
the daughter-in-law, with a look so impertinent, that 
Madame Bovary asked her if she were not defending 
her own cause. 

"Leave!" said the young wife, springing up sud- 
denly. 

"Emma! mamma!" cried Charles, to reconcile 
them. 

But they had both fled in their exasperation. Emma 
trembled while repeating : 

" Ah ! what breeding ! what a peasant woman ! " 

He ran to his mother ; she was beside herself; she 
stammered : 

"She is an insolent! a giddy-headed thing, worse, 
perhaps ! ' ' 

She wished to depart immediately, if the other would 
not come to her to apologize. Charles then returned 
to his wife and entreated her to yield ; he knelt to her ; 
she ended by replying : 

"So be it, I will go." 



PART SECOND 301 

In fact, she offered her hand to her mother-in-law 
with the dignity of a marchioness, saying to her : 

" Excuse me, madame." 

Then, ascending to her own room, Emma threw her- 
self flat on her face on her bed and there wept like a 
child, her head buried in the pillow. 

They had arranged, she and Rodolphe, that, in case 
of an extraordinary event, she would attach to the win- 
dow-shutter a little scrap of white paper, so that, if by 
chance he happened to be in Yonville, he could hurry 
to the little street behind the house. Emma made the 
signal ; she had been waiting for three-quarters of an 
hour, when she suddenly perceived Rodolphe at the 
corner of the market. She was tempted to open the 
window to call him, but he had already disappeared. 
She fell back despairing. 

Presently it seemed to her that someone was walking 
on the sidewalk. It was, doubtless, he ; she descended 
the stairs, traversed the court. He was there, outside. 
She threw herself in his arms. 

" Take care ! " he said. 

"Ah ! if you knew ! " she replied. 

And she commenced to relate to him everything, 
hastily, without sequence, exaggerating the facts, in- 
venting several, and distributing parentheses so abun- 
dantly that he understood nothing about it. 

" Come, my poor angel, courage, console yourself, 
have patience." 



3 02 MADAME BOVARY 

" But here is four years that I have been patient and 

that I have suffered ! A love like ours should avow 

itself in the face of Heaven. They are torturing me. 
I can hold out no longer ! Save me!" 

And she threw herself against Rodolphe. Her eyes, 
full of tears, shone like flames under the waves ; her 
breast heaved rapidly; never had he loved her so 
much ; so much so that he lost his head and said to 
her: 

"What must be done? what do you wish?" 

"Take me," she cried. "Carry me off. Oh! I 
entreat you !" 

And she threw herself upon his mouth as if to seize 
there the unexpected consent which exhaled from it in 
a kiss. 

"But ," replied Rodolphe. 

"What then?" 

' ' And your daughter ? ' ' 

She reflected some minutes, and then replied : 

' ' We will take her, so much the worse ! ' ' 

" What a woman ! " he said to himself, watching her 
disappear, for she escaped through the garden. She 
had been called. 

The Mere Bovary, on the following days, was very 
much astonished at the metamorphosis of her daughter- 
in-law. In fact, Emma showed herself more docile, 
and even pushed her deference so far as to ask her for 
a recipe for pickling cucumbers. 



PART SECOND 303 

Was it in order the better to deceive them both ? or 
indeed, did she wish, by a sort of voluptuous stoicism, 
to feel more profoundly the bitterness of the things 
which she was going to abandon? But she was not 
careful, on the contrary; she lived as if lost in the 
anticipated pleasures of her approaching happiness. 
It furnished an everlasting subject of conversation with 
Rodolphe. She leaned upon his shoulder; she mur- 
mured : 

" Hein? when we are in the mail coach ! Do 

you think of it then ? Is it possible ? It seems to me 
that at the moment when I shall feel the vehicle start- 
ing, it will be as if we were mounting in a balloon, as 
if we were departing for the clouds. Do you know 
that I am counting the days ? And you ? ' ' 

Never had Madame Bovary been so beautiful as at 
this period, she had that indefinable beauty which is 
the result of joy, of enthusiasm, of success, and which 
is only the harmony of the temperament with the sur- 
rounding circumstances. Her covetousnesses, her griefs, 
the experience of pleasure and her illusions, always 
youthful, had developed her by degrees, as do for the 
flowers the fertilizers, the rain, the wind and the sun, 
and she expanded, finally, in the plenitude of her 
nature. Her eyelids seemed modelled expressly for 
those long amorous regards in which the eyeball dis- 
appears, whilst a long breath dilated her thin nostrils 
and uplifted the fleshy corner of her lips, which could 



304 MADAME BOVARY 

be seen in the light shaded by a minute black down. 
It would have been said that an artist, skilful in corrup- 
tions, had arranged on the nape of her neck the coils 
of her hair. They were rolled together in a heavy 
mass, carelessly, and according to the chances of adul- 
tery which unloosed them every day. Her voice now 
took on softer inflections, her figure also ; something 
subtle which penetrated you disengaged itself even from 
the draperies of her dress, from the arch of her foot. 
Charles, as in the first days of their marriage, found 
her delicious and entirely irresistible. 

When he returned in the middle of the night, he did 
not dare to awaken her. The porcelain night-lamp 
cast on the ceiling a circle of trembling light and the 
closed curtains of the little cradle made, as it were, a 
white hut Which rose in the shadow at the side of the 
bed. Charles looked at them. He thought he heard 
the light breathing of his child. She was going to 
grow now; each season, quickly, would bring a prog- 
ress. He saw her already returning from school at 
the end of the day, laughing, with her little jacket 
stained with ink and carrying on her arm her basket ; 
then it would be necessary to put her in a boarding- 
school ; that would cost a great deal ; how to manage 
it ? Then he reflected. He thought of hiring a little 
farm in the neighborhood, and which he could super- 
intend himself, every morning, before going to see his 
patients. He would economize his income ; he would 



PART SECOND 305 

place it in a savings bank ; then he would buy shares, 
somewhere, no matter where ; moreover, his patients 
would increase ; he counted upon it, for he wished that 
Berthe should be well educated, that she should have 
talent, that she should learn to play the piano. Ah ! 
how pretty she will be, when, later, at fifteen, resem- 
bling her mother, she would wear like her, in the sum- 
mer, great straw hats ; they would be taken at a dis- 
tance for two sisters. He pictured her to himself 
working in the evening near them under the light of 
the lamp ; she would embroider slippers for him ; she 
would occupy herself with the housekeeping ; she would 
fill all the house with her gentleness and her gayety. 
Finally, he thought of her marriage establishment ; 
they would find for her some fine young fellow having 
a good position ; he would render her happy ; that 
should last forever. 

Emma was not sleeping ; she pretended to be ; and 
while he sank to rest at her side, she awakened in other 
visions. 

By the gallop of four horses, she had been carried 
for a week towards a new country, from which they 
would never return. They went, they went, arms 
enlaced, without speaking. Often from the height of 
a mountain they perceived suddenly some splendid city, 
with domes, bridges, ships, forests of lemon-trees and 
cathedrals of white marble of which the sharp steeples 
supported storks' nests. They went at a walk, because 



306 MADAME BOVARY 

of the great flagstones, and there were on the ground 
bouquets of flowers, which were offered you by women 
wearing red corsets. There could be heard the sound 
of the bells, the whinnying of the mules, with the mur- 
mur of guitars and the noise of the fountains, the spray 
from which, drifting away, refreshed the piles of fruits 
disposed in pyramids at the feet of the pale statues, 
which smiled under the jets of water. And then they 
would arrive in the evening, at a fishing village, where 
the brown nets were drying in the wind, along the sea 
cliffs and the cabins. It was there that they would 
stop to live, they would inhabit a low house with a flat 
roof, shaded by a palm-tree, at the bottom of a gulf, on 
the edge of the sea. They would go sailing in gon- 
dolas, they would swing in hammocks ; and their exist- 
ence would be easy and large, like their garments of 
silk, all warm and starry, like the soft nights which 
they would contemplate. On the immensity of this 
future, which she caused to appear, no detail asserted 
itself; the days, all of them magnificent, would resem- 
ble each other like the waves; and all this wavered 
on the horizon, infinite, harmonious, bluish and cov- 
ered with sunshine. But the child began to cough 
in her cradle, or Bovary snored loudly; and Emma 
only fell asleep at morning, when the dawn was 
whitening the window-panes and when already the 
little Justin, on the Place, was opening the shutters of 
the pharmacy. 



PART SECOND 307 

She had sent for Monsieur L'Heureux and had said 
to him : 

" I want a cloak, a great cloak, with a long collar, 
lined." 

"You are going on a journey?" he asked. 

' ' No, but No matter, I may depend upon you, 

may I not? and soon." He bowed. 

"I also want," she resumed, "a chest not too 

heavy convenient." 

' ' Yes, yes, I understand, from about ninety-two centi- 
meters by fifty, as they are making them now. ' ' 

"With a clothes-bag." 

"Decidedly," thought L'Heureux, "there is some 
row under all this." 

"And wait," said Madame Bovary drawing her 
watch from her girdle, "take this, you will more than 
pay yourself." 

But the merchant exclaimed that she was wrong; 
they knew each other; did she mistrust him? what 
childishness. She insisted, however, that he should 
take at least the chain, and already L'Heureux had put 
it in his pocket and was going away, when she called 
him back. 

"You will leave everything at your own place. As 
to the cloak," — she seemed to reflect — "do not bring 
that here either; only you will give me the address 
of the workman and notify him that he holds it at my 
disposition." 



308 A\ADAME BOVARY 

It was in the following month that they were to fly. 
She would leave Yonville as if to go and make some 
purchases in Rouen. Rodolphe would have secured 
the places, taking out the passports, and even written to 
Paris in order to have the mail-coach to themselves as 
far as Marseilles, where they would purchase a caleche, 
and from there continue without stopping, by the road 
to Genoa. She would have to be careful to send her 
baggage to L'Heureux, to have it carried directly to 
the Hirondelle, so that no one would have any suspi- 
cions; and in all this there was never anything said 
about the child. Rodolphe avoided speaking of it ; 
perhaps she did not think of it. 

He wished to have two weeks before him in order to 
conclude some arrangements ; then, at the end of eight 
days, he asked for fifteen more ; then he said he was 
sick ; finally he made a journey ; the month of August 
passed away, and after all these postponements it was 
decided that it should be irrevocably for the fourth of 
September, a Monday. 

Finally the Saturday, two days before, arrived. 

Rodolphe came in the evening earlier than usual. 

" Everything is ready?" she asked him. 

"Yes." 

Then they made the tour of the flower-bed, and went 
to take a seat near the terrace, on the edge of the 
wall. 

" You are sad," said Emma. 



PART SECOND 309 

"No, why?" And, however, he looked at her in a 
singular way, with a tender manner. 

"Is it to go away?" she replied, "to quit your 

affections, your life ? Ah ! I understand But I, 

I have nothing in the world ! you are everything to 
me. Thus I shall be everything for you, I shall be 
a family, a country, I shall take care of you, I shall 
love you." 

"How charming you are," he said, seizing her in 
his arms. 

" Truly? " said she with a voluptuous laugh, " do you 
love me ? swear it then ! ' ' 

" If I love you ! if I love you ! but I adore you, my 
love." 

The moon, quite round and of a reddish color, rose 
from the level of the ground at the back of the meadow. 
She ascended quickly among the branches of the pop- 
lars, which concealed her, now and then, like a pierced 
black curtain. Then she appeared dazzling with white- 
ness in the empty sky, which she lit up ; and then, 
relenting, she allowed to fall on the river a great spot, 
which made an infinity of stars, and this silver light 
seemed to writhe there, even to the bottom, like a ser- 
pent without a head, covered with luminous scales. 
This resembled also, somewhat, some monstrous can- 
delabra, from which streamed out, lengthwise, drops 
of melting diamonds. The soft night diffused itself 
around them ; great masses of shadow enveloped the 



3io 



MADAME BOVARY 



foliage. Emma, her eyes half-closed, inspired with 
long breaths the fresh wind that blew. They did not 
speak, too much lost as they were under the domin- 
ion of their revery. The tenderness of former days 
returned to their hearts, abundant and silent as the 
river which flowed by them, with as much softness as in 
bringing them the perfume of the syringas, and project- 
ing in their memory, shadows more melancholy and 
immeasurable than those which the motionless willows 
lengthened out on the grass. Frequently some noc- 
turnal animal, hedgehog or weasel, in full chase, stirred 
the leaves, or at times they heard a ripe peach which 
fell singly from the wall. 

" Ah ! what a beautiful night ! " said Rodolphe. 

"We shall have others," replied Emma, and, as if 
speaking to herself: "Yes, it will be good to travel 
Why is my heart sad, however ? Is it the appre- 
hension of the unknown the effect of leaving daily 

habits or rather no, it is the excess of happi- 
ness. How weak I am, am I not ? Forgive me. ' ' 

" There is still time ! " he exclaimed. "Reflect, you 
may repent, perhaps ? ' ' 

"Never," said she impetuously, and drawing nearer 
to him. "What unhappiness then can come to me? 
There is no desert, no precipice nor no ocean which I 
will not traverse with you. In proportion as we live 
together, it will be as a clasp binding us each day closer, 
more complete. We shall have nothing to trouble us, 



PART SECOND 31 1 

no cares, no obstacles. We shall be alone, all to each 
other, eternally. Speak to me then, answer me." 

He replied at regular intervals : ' ' Yes Yes ' ' 

She had passed her hands through his hair, and she 
repeated in an infantile voice, despite the great tears 
flowing : 

" Rodolphe ! Rodolphe ! Ah ! Rodolphe ! dear little 
Rodolphe!" 

Midnight sounded. 

"Midnight," she said. "Come, it is to-morrow, 
still one day more." 

He rose to depart, and as if this motion had been a 
signal for their flight, Emma, suddenly assuming a gay 
air, said : 

' ' You have the passports ? ' ' 

"Yes." 

"You have forgotten nothing?" 

"No." 

' ' You are sure ? ' ' 

"Certainly." 

"It is at the Hotel de Provence, is it not, that you 
will wait for me ? At noon ? ' ' 

He nodded assent. 

"Till to-morrow, then," said Emma, during a last 
caress. 

And she watched him go away. 

He did not turn around. She ran after him and, lean- 
ing over the edge of the water among the bushes : 



312 MADAME BOVARY 

"Till to-morrow," she cried. 

He was already on the other side of the river and 
walking quickly through the meadow. 

At the expiration of a few minutes Rodolphe stopped ; 
and when he saw her with her white dress little by little 
disappear in the obscurity like a phantom, he was seized 
with such an acceleration of the beating of his heart 
that he leaned against a tree so as not to fall. 

"What an imbecile I am," he said, swearing fright- 
fully. "No matter, she was a charming mistress." 
And Emma's beauty with all the pleasures of this love 
suddenly reappeared to him. At first he was moved to 
tenderness, then he revolted against her. "For, in 
short," he exclaimed, gesticulating, "I do not care to 
expatriate myself, to take the charge of a child. ' ' This 
he said to himself to fortify his resolution still more. 
"And, moreover, the embarrassment, the expense! 
Ah ! no, no, a thousand times no, that would have been 
too stupid." 



XIII 



As soon as he had arrived at home, Rodolphe sat 
down brusquely at his desk, under the deer's head, a 
trophy of the chase. But when he had the pen between 
his fingers he found nothing to say, so much so that, 



PART SECOND 313 

leaning on his two elbows, he began to reflect. Emma 
seemed to have withdrawn from him into a distant past, 
as if the resolution which he had just taken had sud- 
denly placed between them an immense interval. 

Then, that he might touch again something of hers, 
he went to get in the wardrobe, by the side of his bed, 
an old box that had formerly contained Reims biscuits, 
in which he usually kept his feminine correspondence, 
and from which escaped a vague odor of mouldy dust 
and of withered roses. The first thing he saw was a 
pocket handkerchief, covered with pale spots. This 
was one of her handkerchiefs, once she had bled at the 
nose when they were walking together ; he no longer 
remembered it. There was near it, bent at all the 
angles, the miniature given by Emma; her toilet 
seemed to him pretentious and the theatrical glance 
of her eyes had the most pitiful effect ; then, by dint 
of considering this image and of evoking the memory 
of the original, Emma's features, little by little, became 
confused in his memory, as if the living figure and the 
painted figure, rubbing against each other, had mutually 
effaced each other. Finally he read her letters ; they 
were full of explanations relative to their journey, short, 
technical, and urgent like business letters. He wished 
to see again the long ones, the old ones ; in order to 
find them at the bottom of the box, Rodolphe dis- 
arranged all the others ; and mechanically he began to 
rummage through all this pile of papers and of things, 



314 MADAME BOVARY 

finding there indiscriminately bouquets, a garter, a 
black mask, pins and locks of hair, — brown hair, blonde 
hair; some of them even, caught in the lock of the 
box, broke in two when it was opened. 

Thus, idling among his souvenirs, he examined the 
writing and the style of the letters as varied as their 
orthography. They were tender or jovial, facetious, 
melancholy ; there were those among them which asked 
for love and others which asked for money. At the 
suggestion of a word, he recalled faces, certain gestures, 
the sound of the voice ; sometimes, however, he recalled 
nothing. 

In fact, these women, crowding all at the same time 
into his thoughts, interfered with each other and be- 
littled each other, as if under the same level of love 
which equalized them all. Taking up then by handfuls, 
these mingled letters he amused himself during a few 
minutes by letting them fall in cascades from his right 
hand into his left. Finally, wearied, dull, Rodolphe 
carried the box back into the wardrobe saying to him- 
self, "What a pile of nonsense !" which summed up 
his opinions; for pleasures, like the scholars in the 
court of a college, had so trodden over his heart that 
nothing green grew there, and that which passed over 
it, more heedless than the children, did not even leave, 
like them, its name scratched on the wall. 

"Come," he said to himself, " let us commence." 

He began to write : 



PART SECOND 315 

" Have courage, Emma, have courage. I do not 
wish to be the cause of the unhappiness of your 
existence." 

" After all, that is true," thought Rodolphe ; "lam 
acting in her interest; I am honest." 

"Have you seriously thought over your determina- 
tion ? Are you conscious of the abyss into which I am 
drawing you, poor angel ! No, is that not so ? You 
would go ahead, confident and foolish, believing in 
happiness, in the future. Ah ! unhappy that we are ! 
senseless and unwise. ' ' 

Rodolphe stopped, in order to find here some good 
excuse. 

" If I should say to her that all my fortune is lost? 
Ah ! no, and, moreover, that would prevent noth- 
ing. It would only be to commence again later. Is 
it to be expected that you can make such women hear 
reason ! ' ' 

He considered a moment, then added : 

" I shall not forget you, you may well believe it, and 
I shall continually have for you a profound devotion ; 
but one day, sooner or later, this ardor — this is the fate 
of all human things — will doubtless become diminished ! 
There will come to us wearinesses, and who knows even 
if I should not have had the atrocious pain of witness- 
ing your remorse and of sharing it myself, because I 
had caused it. I am tortured merely by the thought of 
the grief which would come to you, Emma ! Forget 



316 MADAME BOVARY 

me ! Why was it necessary that I should have known 
you? Why were you so beautiful? Is it my fault? 
Oh ! Mon Dieu ! no, no ! accuse only fatality." 

"There's a word that always makes an effect," he 
said to himself. 

"Ah ! if you had been one of those women with a 
frivolous heart such as may be seen, certainly I would 
have been able, through selfishness, to attempt an expe- 
rience then without danger for you. But this delicious 
exaltation which constitutes at once your charm and 
your torment has prevented you from comprehending, 
adorable woman that you are, the falsity of our future 
position. I, neither, I had not reflected upon it at 
first, and I rested myself in the shadow of this ideal 
happiness, as in that of the manchineel tree, without 
foreseeing the consequences." 

"Perhaps she will think that it is through avarice 
that I renounce her. Ah ! no matter, so much the 
worse ! it will have to end." 

"The world is cruel, Emma. Everywhere that we 
might be, it would have pursued us. It would have 
been necessary to expose you to indiscreet questions, to 
calumny, to disdain, to outrage, perhaps ? Outrage to 

you ! Oh ! And I who would wish to seat you 

upon a throne. I who carry the thought of you about 
as a talisman. For I punish myself with exile for all 
the evil which I have done you. I depart. Where ? 
I do not know at all, I am distracted. Farewell ! Be 



PART SECOND 317 

good always. Preserve the memory of the unhappy 
one who has lost you. Teach my name to your child ; 
that she may repeat it in her prayers." 

The flame of the two candles trembled; Rodolphe 
rose to close the window, and when he was seated 
again : 

"It seems to me that that is all? Ah! this much 
more, for fear that she should undertake to get even 
with me : ' ' 

"I shall be far away when you read these sorrowful 
lines, for I have wished to fly as soon as possible in 
order to avoid the temptation to see you again. No 
more weakness ! I shall come back ; and perhaps some 
day later we shall talk together very coolly of our 
former love. Adieu ! " 

And there was a last adieu, separated into two words, 
A Dien ! which he considered to be in excellent taste. 

' ' How am I going to sign it now ? " he said to himself. 

"Your entirely devoted? No. Your friend 

Yes, that's it!" 

"Your friend." 

He re-read his letter. It seemed to him good. 

" Poor little woman ! " he thought, tenderly. " She is 
going to believe me more insensible than a rock ; there 
should have been some tears on that ; but I — I cannot 
weep ; that is not my fault." Then having poured out 
some water in a glass Rodolphe dipped his finger in it, 



318 MADAME BOVARY 

he allowed to fall from a certain height a great drop on 
the letter, which made a pale spot on the ink; then, 
looking for something with which to seal his letter, the 
seal Amor nel cor presented itself. 

"That scarcely fits the circumstances Ah, bah ! 

no matter." 

After which he smoked three pipes and went to bed. 

The next day when he had arisen — about two o'clock, 
for he had slept late — Rodolphe caused a basket of 
apricots to be gathered. He placed the letter in the 
bottom under some vine leaves and gave orders imme- 
diately to Girard, his ploughman, to carry that care- 
fully to Madame Bovary. He made use of this method 
of corresponding with her, sending to her, according to 
the season, fruit or game. 

"If she asks you about me," said he, "you will 
answer that I have gone on a journey. You must give 
the letter to her, herself, in her own hands ; go, and be 
careful. ' ' 

Girard put on his new blouse, tied his handkerchief 
around the apricots, and, walking with long heavy steps 
in his great iron-nailed shoes, tranquilly took the road 
to Yonville. 

Madame Bovary, when he arrived at her house, was 
arranging with Felicite a package of linen on the 
kitchen table. 

"Here," said the ploughman, "this is what our 
master sends you." 



PART SECOND 319 

She was seized with an apprehension, and whilst 
searching for some money in her pocket, she looked at 
him with a haggard eye, whilst he himself stared at her 
in astonishment, not understanding how such a gift 
could so much move anyone. Finally, he went away. 
Felicite remained. She could contain herself no 
longer ; she hastened into the salle as if to put away 
the apricots, overturned the basket, took out the leaves, 
found the letter, opened it, and, as if there had been a 
frightful conflagration behind her, Emma took flight 
toward her chamber, completely terrified. 

Charles was there ; she saw him ; he spoke to her ; 
she heard nothing, and she continued to mount the 
stairs quickly, breathless, bewildered, drunken, and still 
holding this horrible piece of paper, which cracked 
between her fingers like a piece of sheet-iron. On the 
second floor she stopped before the door of the loft 
which was closed. 

Then she wished to calm herself; she remembered 
the letter; it was necessary to finish it, she did not 
dare. Moreover, where ? How? She would be seen. 

"Ah! no, here," she thought, "I shall be all 
right." 

Emma pushed open the door and entered. 

From the slate roof there fell a heavy heat, which 
compressed her temples and suffocated her ; she dragged 
herself to the closed garret window of which she drew 
the bolt; and the dazzling daylight streamed in at once. 



320 MADAME BOVARY 

There, before her, beyond the roofs, the open country 
extended as far as the eye could see. Below, under 
her, the Place of the village was empty ; the pebbles 
on the sidewalk glittered ; the weathercocks of the 
houses stood motionless ; at the corner of the street 
there issued from a lower story a sort of snoring with 
strident modulations. It was Binet at his turning- 
lathe. 

She leaned against the side of the window and she 
re-read the letter with sneers of anger. But the more 
she fixed her attention upon it, the more her ideas 
became confounded. She saw him again, she heard 

him, he surrounded her with his two arms and the 

beating of her heart, which struck against the sides of 
her chest as with the blows of a battering-ram, increased 
in rapidity one after another, with unequal intermis- 
sions. She threw her eyes all around her with the wish 
that the earth should dissolve. Why not finish with it 
all? Who retained her, then? She was free. And 
she moved forward ; she looked at the pavements, say- 
ing to herself: " Come, come." 

The luminous rays, which mounted from below, 
directly drew toward the abyss the weight of her body. 
It seemed to her that the surface of the Place, oscillat- 
ing, rose up along the walls, and that the floor tilted 
down at one side, after the manner of a vessel pitching 
at sea. She held herself quite on the edge, almost sus- 
pended, environed by a vast space. The blue of the 



PART SECOND 321 

heavens took possession of her, the air circulated in her 
hollow head, she had only to yield, to allow herself to 
be taken, and the snoring sound of the turning did not 
discontinue, like a furious voice which called her. 

" Wife ! wife ! " cried Charles. 

She stopped herself. 

" Where are you ? Come." 

The thought that she had just escaped from death all 
but made her swoon with terror ; she closed her eyes. 
Then she shuddered at the contact of a hand on her 
sleeve. It was Felicite. 

" Monsieur is waiting for you, madame ; the soup is 
served." 

And it was necessary to go downstairs ! It was neces- 
sary to sit down at the table ! 

She endeavored to eat. The food suffocated her. 
Then she unfolded her napkin as if to examine the 
mending, and wished really to apply herself to this 
task, to count the threads of the linen. Suddenly the 
thought of the letter returned to her. Had she then 
lost it ? Where to find it again ? But she felt such a 
weakness of mind that she would never be able to invent 
a pretext for leaving the table. Then she had become 
cowardly ; she was afraid of Charles ; he knew all ; 
that was certain. In fact, he uttered these words in a 
singular manner : 

"We are not likely, it appears, to see Monsieur 
Rodolphe." 



322 MADAME BOVARY 

"Who told you so?" she said, shuddering. 

"Who told me so ?" he replied, a little surprised at 
this brusque tone. " It was Girard, whom I just met at 
the door of the Cafe Francais. He has gone on a 
journey, or he is about to go." 

She uttered a sob. 

" What is it that surprises you ? He goes away thus 
every now and then to amuse himself and, ma foi ! I 
don't object. When you have a fortune and when you 

are a bachelor ! For that matter he amuses himself 

famously, our friend ! he is a gay fellow. Monsieur 
Langlois related to me ' ' 

He broke off, because of the servant who came in. 

The latter replaced in the basket the apricots scat- 
tered on the etagere ; Charles, without noticing his 
wife's redness, had them brought to him, took one, and 
bit into it luxuriously. 

" Oh ! exquisite ! " he said. " Take it, taste them ! " 

And he offered the basket which she put aside gently. 

" Smell them then ! What an odor ! " he said, pass- 
ing them backward and forward under her nose. 

" I am suffocating! " she cried, springing to her feet. 

But, through an effort of her will, this spasm passed 
away ; then : 

"It is nothing," she said, "it is nothing, it is ner- 
vousness. Sit down, eat your dinner." 

For she feared that she would be questioned, nursed, 
that she would not be left to herself any more. 



PART SECOND 323 

Charles, to obey her, sat down again ; and he spat 
out in his hand the pit of the apricot which he then 
deposited in his plate. 

Suddenly a blue tilbury passed at a hard trot through 
the Place. Emma uttered a cry and fell backwards stiff 
on the floor. 

In fact, Rodolphe, after long meditation, had decided 
to depart for Rouen. Now, as there is from La Huchette 
to Buchy, no other road than that of Yonville, he had 
been obliged to go through the village, and Emma had 
recognized him by the light of the lanterns which cut 
through the darkness like a flash. 

Meanwhile, the pharmacist, at the sound of the 
tumult in the house, had hurried thither. The table 
with all the plates was upset ; the sauces, the meat, 
the knives, the salt-cellar and the oil-cruet strewed the 
apartment ; Charles called for help ; Berthe, frightened, 
cried, and Felicite, with trembling hands, was unlacing 
madame whose body was agitated throughout its length 
by convulsive movements. 

"I will run," said the apothecary, "to get a little 
aromatic vinegar from my laboratory. ' ' 

Then, as she reopened her eyes, in inhaling from the 
vial : 

"I was sure of it," said he; "that would wake the 
dead for you." 

"Speak to us!" said Charles. "Speak to us! 
Recall yourself ! It is I, thy Charles, who loves thee ! 



324 MADAME BOVARY 

Dost thou recognize me ? See, here is thy little daugh- 
ter ; kiss her now." 

The child stretched out its arms towards its mother 
to take her around the neck. But, turning away her 
head, Emma said in a shaking voice : 

" No, no, no one ! " 

She fainted again. They carried her to her bed. 

She lay there at full length, her mouth opened, her 
eyes closed, her hands flat, motionless, and white as a 
statue of wax. Two streams of tears issued from her 
eyes and flowed down slowly on the pillow. 

Charles, standing, kept his place at the bottom of the 
alcove, and the pharmacist near him maintained that 
meditative silence which is appropriate in the serious 
occasions of life. 

" Reassure yourself," he said, touching the other with 
his elbow, " I think that the paroxysm is passed." 

"Yes, she is reposing a little now," replied Charles, 

watching her sleep. " Poor woman Poor woman ! 

to see her relapse ! " 

Then Homais asked how this accident had happened. 
Charles replied that it had taken her very suddenly 
whilst she was eating an apricot. 

' ' Extraordinary ! ' ' replied the pharmacist. ' ' But 

could it be that the apricots had occasioned the syn- 
cope ? There are natures so impressionable on encoun- 
tering certain odors ! and it would even be a fine ques- 
tion to study, as much on the pathological side as on the 



PART SECOND 325 

philosophic side. The priests know the importance of 
it, they who have always mingled aromatics with their 
ceremonies. It is in order to stupefy your understand- 
ing and incite to ecstasies, a thing, moreover, easy to 
obtain with persons of that sex who are more delicate 
than others. Cases have been cited of those who 
fainted at the smell of burnt horn, of fresh bread " 

"Take care not to awaken her," said Bovary, in a 
low voice. 

''And not only," continued the apothecary, "is the 
human race a prey to these anomalies, but also animals. 
Thus you are not unaware of the singular aphrodisiac 
effect which is produced by the nepeta cataria, com- 
monly called catnip, on the feline race; and on the 
other hand, to cite an example which I guarantee 
authentic, Bridoux — one of my former comrades, now 
established in the Rue Malpalu — owns a cat which falls 
into convulsions whenever she is shown a snuff-box. 
He has often made the experiment before his friends in 
his pavilion of Bois-Guillaume. Would it be believed 
that a simple sternutatory could exercise such ravages 
in the organism of a quadruped ? It is extremely curi- 
ous, is it not, indeed?" 

"Yes," said Charles, who was not listening. 

1 ' Which proves to us, ' ' resumed the other, smiling with 
an air of benign sufficiency, "the innumerable irregu- 
larities of the nervous system. As to that of madame, 
she has always appeared to me, I admit it, too sensitive. 



326 MADAME BOVARY 

Thus I would in no way counsel you, my good friend, 
to the use of any of those pretended remedies, which, 
under the pretext of attacking the symptoms, attack 
the constitution. No ! no useless medicaments ! a 
regimen, that is all ! sedatives, emollients, dulcifiants. 
Then, do you not think that it would be well perhaps to 
excite her imagination?" 

"In what way? how?" said Bovary. 

" Ah ! there is the question ! That is effectively the 
question : that is the question, as I read lately in the 
journal." 

But Emma, coming to herself, cried : 

"The letter? the letter?" 

They thought that she was delirious ; she was so after 
midnight ; brain fever had declared itself. 

For forty-three days, Charles did not leave her side. 
He abandoned all his patients ; he did not go to bed, 
he was continually feeling her pulse, placing sinapisms, 
compresses of cold water. He sent Justin as far as 
Neufchatel to get some ice ; the ice melted on the road ; 
he sent him back for more. He called in Monsieur 
Canivet in consultation; he caused Doctor Lariviere, 
his former master, to come from Rouen; he was in 
despair. That which frightened him the most, was 
Emma's complete collapse; for she did not speak, 
heard nothing, and even seemed not to suffer, — as if 
her soul and her body were reposing together from all 
their agitation. 



PART SECOND 327 

Toward the middle of October, she was able to sit 
up in her bed with pillows piled behind her. Charles 
wept when he saw her eating her first little tart of pre- 
serves. Her strength came back to her; she got up for 
a few hours in the afternoon, and one day, when she 
felt better, he undertook to induce her to take a little 
walk around the garden, leaning on his arm. The 
sand of the pathway disappeared under the dead 
leaves; she walked step by step, trailing her slippers 
and, leaning her elbow against Charles, she continued 
to smile. 

They went thus as far as the end, near to the 
terrace. She straightened up slowly and put her 
hand over her eyes to look. She looked at the dis- 
tance, the far distance, but there was on the horizon 
nothing but great fires of weeds, which smoked on 
the hills. 

" You will fatigue yourself, my darling," said Bovary, 
and he urged her gently to go in under the arbor. 

" Seat yourself on this bench; you will be comfort- 
able." 

"Oh! no, not there! not there!" she said in a 
fainting voice. 

She had an attack of dizziness ; and in the even- 
ing her illness recommenced, with a more uncertain 
appearance, it is true, and more complex symptoms. 
Sometimes she suffered in the heart, then in the chest, 
in the head, in the limbs, then there followed vomiting, 



328 MADAME BOVARY 

with which Charles thought he perceived the first 
symptoms of a cancer. 

And the poor fellow, in addition to all this, was 
anxious about money matters ! 



XIV 

In the first place, he did not know what to do to 
recompense Monsieur Homais for all the medicines he 
had furnished; and though, as a physician, he might 
not have been compelled to pay, nevertheless he 
blushed a little under this obligation. Then the 
expenses of the household, now that the cook was the 
mistress, became frightful ; bills rained on the house ; 
the tradesmen complained; Monsieur L'Heureux, 
above all, harassed him. In fact, at the worst period 
of Emma's sickness, the latter — profiting by the cir- 
cumstance to increase his account — had promptly 
brought the cloak, the clothes-bag, two chests instead 
of one, and a quantity of other things. It was in vain 
that Charles said that he had no need of them, the 
merchant replied arrogantly that all these articles had 
been ordered from him and that he would not take 
them back; moreover, that would be to vex madame 
in her convalescence ; monsieur would reflect upon it ; 
in short, he was resolved to take legal action rather 



PART SECOND 329 

than abandon his rights and take away his merchandise. 
Charles ordered in the end that they should be sent 
back to his shop ; Felicite forgot it ; he had other 
cares; no more was thought about it. Monsieur 
L'Heureux returned to the charge, and, alternately 
threatening and whining, manoeuvered in such a fashion 
that Bovary ended by signing a note payable at the end 
of six months. But scarcely had he signed this note 
when an audacious idea came into his head — that was 
to borrow a thousand francs from Monsieur L'Heureux. 
Accordingly he asked of him with an embarrassed air if 
there was not some method for obtaining them, adding 
that it would be to run a year and at whatever interest 
was desired. L'Heureux ran to his shop, brought back 
the money and dictated another note in which Bovary 
declared that he would pay to his order, the first of 
September following, the sum of a thousand and 
seventy francs, which with the hundred and eighty 
already stipulated for made just twelve hundred and 
fifty. Thus, lending at six per cent., augmented by a 
quarter for the commission and the goods furnished 
bringing in at least a good third, that should in twelve 
months give him a hundred and thirty francs of profit ; 
and he hoped the affair would not stop there, that the 
notes could not be paid, that they would be renewed, 
and that his poor money, being nourished in the doc- 
tor's house as in a hospital, would return to him one 
day considerably plumper, and so fat as to burst the bag. 



330 MADAME BOVARY 

Everything, moreover, was succeeding with him. He 
was the contractor for furnishing cider to the hospital 
of Neufchatel; Monsieur Guillaumin promised him 
shares in the turf-pits of Grumesnil, and he dreamed 
of establishing a new service with diligences between 
Argueil and Rouen, which would not take long, doubt- 
less, to ruin the stage of the Lion d ' Or and which, 
going quicker, being cheaper and carrying more bag- 
gage, would thus put into his hands all the commerce 
of Yonville. 

Charles asked himself several times by what means 
he was going to be able the next year to pay back so 
much money, and he sought out, he imagined various 
expedients, such as having recourse to his father or of 
selling something. But his father would be deaf, and 
he had, himself, nothing to sell. Then he discovered 
such embarrassments in the subject that he put quickly 
out of his mind such a disagreeable theme for medita- 
tion. He reproached himself for forgetting Emma 
because of it ; as if, all his thoughts belonging to this 
woman, it would have been taking something from her 
to cease to think of her continually. 

The winter was a severe one. The convalescence of 
madame was long. When the weather was fine, she 
was pushed in her armchair close to the window, that 
which looked out on the Place, for she now manifested 
an antipathy for the garden, and the shades on that 
side remained constantly closed. She wished that the 



PART SECOND 331 

horse should be sold ; that which pleased her formerly, 
at present displeased her. All her ideas seemed to be 
limited to the care of herself. She remained in her 
bed to have little collations served her, rang for her 
servant to ask about her tisanes or to talk with her. 
Meanwhile, the snow on the roof of the market threw 
into the chamber, a white motionless reflection ; then 
it was the rain which fell. And Emma daily awaited 
with a sort of anxiety the infallible return of the slight- 
est events which, however, mattered very little to her. 
The most considerable was, in the evening, the arrival 
of the Hirondelle. Then the innkeeper called out and 
other voices replied, whilst Hippolyte's great lantern, 
while he was looking for his chests under the cart-tilt, 
made a sort of star in the obscurity. At noon, Charles 
returned ; afterwards, he went out ; then she took a 
bouillon ; and about five o'clock, as the day was begin- 
ning to decline, the children who, returning from school, 
dragged their sabots along the sidewalk, struck with their 
rules, one after the other, the catch of the awnings. 

It was at this hour that Monsieur Bournisien came to 
see her. He inquired after her health, brought her the 
news and exhorted her to religion in a little wheedling 
gossip which was not wanting in agreeableness. The 
sight of his cassock alone comforted her. 

One day, when at the height of her illness she 
thought herself dying, she had asked for the commun- 
ion ; and in proportion as they made in her chamber 



332 MADAME BOVARY 

the preparations for the sacrament, as they arranged as 
an altar the commode covered with syrups and as Felicite 
strewed the floor with dahlias, Emma felt something 
powerful passing over her which relieved her of all her 
pain, of all perception, of all feeling. Her flesh, grown 
lighter, no longer weighed her down, another life com- 
menced; it seemed to her that her being, mounting 
towards God, was about to disappear in this love, as a 
lightened incense which dissipates itself in vapor. The 
coverings of the bed were sprinkled with holy water; 
the priest withdrew from the holy pyx the white conse- 
crated wafer; and it was in swooning with a celestial 
joy, that she advanced her lips to accept the body of 
the Saviour which presented itself. The curtains of 
her alcove puffed out softly around her like clouds, and 
the rays from the two candles burning on the commode 
seemed to her to be dazzling glories. Then she let her 
head fall back, believing that she heard in space the 
song of the seraphic harps and perceived in an azure 
heaven, on a throne of gold, in the middle of the 
saints holding green palms, God the Father, blazing 
in majesty, and who with a sign commanded angels 
with wings of flame to descend to the earth to carry 
her off in their arms. 

This splendid vision remained in her memory as 
the most beautiful thing of which it was possible to 
dream ; so that at present she endeavored to possess 
herself again of the sensation which continued, however, 



PART SECOND 333 

but in a less exclusive manner and with a sweetness 
indeed as profound. Her soul, wearied with pride, 
finally reposed in Christian humility ; and, tasting the 
pleasure of being feeble, Emma contemplated in herself 
the destruction of her will, which should open freely to 
the ministrations of Grace. There existed, then, in 
the place of happiness, felicities much greater, another 
love above all loves, without intermission or end, 
and which should increase eternally. Among the 
illusions of her hope she had glimpses of a state of 
purity floating above the earth, mingling with the 
heaven, and in which she aspired to be. She desired 
to become a saint. She purchased rosaries, she wore 
amulets; she wished to have in her chamber at the 
side of her bed, a reliquary set in emeralds, to kiss 
every evening. 

The cure marveled at these dispositions, seeing that 
Emma's religion, as he thought, might, through too 
much fervor, end by skirting heresy and even extrava- 
gance. But, not being very well versed in these mat- 
ters, especially when they passed a certain point, he 
wrote to Monsieur Boulard, bookseller to Monseigneur, 
to send him something excellent for a person of the weaker 
sex who was spiritually minded. The bookseller, with 
as much indifference as he would have sent off a lot of 
hardware to the natives of Africa, packed off to you, 
pell-mell, everything that was then in circulation in the 
trade of pious books. There were little manuals in 



334 MADAME BOVARY 

questions and answers, pamphlets in a haughty tone 
after the manner of Monsieur de Maistre, and species 
of romances in thick binding and sweetish style, fabri- 
cated by troubadour seminaries or by repentant blue- 
stockings. There was the Think of it Seriously ; The 
Introduction to a Devout Life ; The Man of the World 

at the Feet of Mary, by Monsieur de , decorated 

with several orders ; The Errors of Voltaire, for the Use 
of Young Persons, etc. 

Madame Bovary had not yet an intelligence clear 
enough to apply itself to anything, no matter what ; 
moreover, she undertook these readings with too much 
precipitation. She grew irritated at the regulations of 
worship ; the arrogance of the polemic writings dis- 
pleased her, by their fury of pursuit of persons whom 
she did not know ; and the profane stories with religious 
tendency appeared to her to be written in such an igno- 
rance of the world that they insensibly led her away from 
the truths, the proofs of which she was awaiting. She 
persisted, however, and when the volume fell from her 
hands she believed herself taken possession of by the 
finest Catholic melancholy that an ethereal soul could 
conceive. 

As to the memory of Rodolphe, it had descended com- 
pletely to the bottom of her heart ; and it remains there 
more solemn and motionless than the mummy of a king 
in a crypt. But an exhalation escaped from this great 
love embalmed and which, passing through everything, 



PART SECOND 335 

perfumed with tenderness the atmosphere of immacu- 
lateness in which she wished to live. When she knelt 
in her Gothic priedieu, she addressed to the Lord the 
same soft words that she had formerly murmured to 
her lover, in the effusiveness of adultery. This was 
to revivify her faith, to bring belief. No delecta- 
tion descended from Heaven, and she rose, her limbs 
fatigued, with a vague feeling of an immense deception. 
This seeking, she thought, was only one merit the 
more ; and in the pride of her devotion, Emma com- 
pared herself to those great ladies of former times of 
whose glory she had dreamed under a portrait of La 
Valliere, and who, trailing with so much majesty the 
lace-trimmed trains of their long robes, retired into the 
solitude, there to pour out at the feet of Christ all the 
tears of a heart wounded by existence. 

Then she gave herself up to excessive charities. She 
sewed garments for the poor ; she sent firewood to 
women in child-bed ; and Charles coming in one day, 
found in the kitchen three rogues at table eating soup. 
She caused to be brought back to the house her little 
daughter whom her husband, during her illness, had 
sent back to the nurse. She wished to teach her to 
read ; and however copiously Berthe might cry she no 
longer became irritated. It was a determined attitude 
of resignation, an universal indulgence. Her language 
on every subject was full of ideal expression. She said 
to her child : " Has thy colic passed away, my angel? " 



336 MADAME BOVARY 

Madame Bovary, mere, found nothing to blame, with 
the exception perhaps of this mania for knitting under- 
waistcoats for the orphans instead of mending her own 
clouts. But, harassed by domestic quarrels, the good 
woman was pleased to be in this tranquil house, and 
she even remained there till after Easter, in order to 
escape the sarcasms of Pere Bovary, who did not fail on 
every Good Friday to order a dish of pork chitterlings. 

In addition to the company of her mother-in-law, 
who strengthened her a little by her rectitude of judg- 
ment and her grave manners, Emma had other soci- 
ety almost every day. There was Madame Langlois, 
Madame Caron, Madame Dubreuil, Madame Tuvache, 
and, regularly from two o'clock to five o'clock, the 
excellent Madame Homais, who had never wished to 
believe, for her part, any one of those cancans which 
had been so freely promulgated concerning her neigh- 
bor. The little Homais also came to see her; Justin 
accompanied them. He ascended with them into the 
chamber, and he remained standing near the door, 
motionless, without speaking. Often, even, Madame 
Bovary, paying no heed to him, performed her toilet. 
She commenced by taking out her comb, shaking her 
head with a sudden movement ; when he saw for the 
first time this entire wave of hair which descended as far 
as the knee, unrolling its black wings, it was for him, the 
poor child, like the sudden entry into something extraor- 
dinary and novel, the splendor of which frightened him. 



PART SECOND 337 

Emma, doubtless, did not notice this silent earnest- 
ness nor these timidities. She did not suspect that 
love, disappeared from her life, was palpitating there, 
near to her, under that shirt of coarse linen, in that 
heart of an adolescent opened to the emanations of her 
beauty. For the rest, she enveloped everything now 
in such an indifference, she had words so affectionate 
and looks so haughty, manners so diverse, that no one 
distinguished any longer selfishness from charity, nor 
corruption from virtue. One evening, for example, she 
was scolding at her servant, who had asked her for 
leave to go out and stammered in seeking for a pre- 
text ; then, suddenly : 

"You love him then?" she said. 

And, without waiting for the reply of Felicite who 
blushed, she added with a sorrowful air : 

"Go along, run away! amuse yourself! " 

At the commencement of the spring, she caused the 
garden to be completely turned over from one end to 
the other, notwithstanding the observations of Bovary; 
he was happy, however, to see her manifest, at last, 
any determination whatever. She gave evidence of 
much more in proportion as her health was re-estab- 
lished. In the first place, she found means of expelling 
the mere Rollet, the nurse, who had fallen into the 
habit, during her convalescence, of coming to the 
kitchen too often with her nurslings and her boarder, 
sharper set than a cannibal. Then she disengaged 



338 MADAME BOVARY 

herself from the family Homais, dismissed successively 
all the other visits and even frequented the church with 
less assiduity, to the great approbation of the apothe- 
cary who now said to her with a friendly air : 

"You were getting a little pious." 

Monsieur Bournisien, as formerly, dropped in every 
day, when coming from catechism. He preferred re- 
maining outside to taking the air in the midst of the 
grove ; this was the name he gave to the arbor. It was 
the hour in which Charles returned. They were warm ; 
there was sweet cider brought, and they drank together 
to the complete recovery of madame. 

Binet was there, that is to say, a little lower down 
against the wall of the terrace, fishing for crayfish. 
Bovary invited him to have some refreshments, and he 
had a fine talent for opening bottles. 

"It is necessary," he said, casting all around him 
and even to the extremity of the landscape, a look of 
satisfaction, "to hold the bottle thus, straight on the 
table, and after the wires are cut, to push the cork a 
little at a time gently, gently, as they do, in fact, the 
seltzer water in the restaurants." 

The cider, during his demonstration, often flew into 
their faces, and then the ecclesiastic, with an opaque 
laugh, never failed to produce this jest : 

" Its goodness flies in your very face ! " 

He was a worthy man, in fact, the priest, and one 
day he was even not scandalized at the pharmacist, who 



PART SECOND 339 

advised Charles in order to distract madame, to take her 
to the theatre at Rouen, to hear the illustrious tenor 
Lagardy. Homais, surprised at this silence, wished to 
know his opinion ; and the priest declared that he 
considered music as less dangerous for morality than 
literature. 

But the pharmacist took up the defense of letters. 
The theatre, he pretended, served to break down prej- 
udices, and under the mask of pleasure, instructed in 
virtue. 

"Castigat ridendo mores, Monsieur Bournisien ! Thus, 
look at the greater number of the tragedies of Voltaire ; 
they are very full of philosophical reflections, skilfully 
introduced, which make of them for the people a veri- 
table school of morality and of diplomacy." 

''Ah!" said Binet, "I saw once a piece entitled 
Le Gamin de Paris, in which you might have noticed 
the character of an old general who is happily hit off. 
He sends off, as he deserves, a young blood, a minor, 
who had seduced a workgirl, who, in the end, " 

"Certainly," continued Homais, "there is bad liter- 
ature just as there is bad pharmacy; but to condemn 
en bloc the most important of the fine arts seems to me 
to be a stupidity, a Gothic idea, worthy of those abom- 
inable times in which they imprisoned Galileo." 

"I know very well," objected the cure, "that there 
exist good works, good authors; nevertheless, will it 
not happen that these persons of the two sexes brought 



34° 



MADAME BOVARY 



together in an apartment full of enchantment, orna- 
mented with worldly pomps, and then these pagan 
disguisements, these luxuries, these lights, these effem- 
inate voices, — all that should finish by engendering a 
certain libertinage of the spirit and giving you immoral 
thoughts, impure temptations. Such is, at least, the 
opinion of all the Fathers. In fact, ' ' he added, assum- 
ing suddenly a mystic tone of voice whilst he rolled 
under his thumb a pinch of snuff, "if the Church has 
condemned theatrical spectacles, it is because it had 
good reason ; it is necessary for us to submit to her 
decrees." 

"Why," asked the apothecary, "does she excom- 
municate the actors ? For, in former times they openly 
concurred in the ceremonies of the faith. Yes, they 
played, they represented in the middle of the choir a 
sort of farces, called Mysteries, in which the laws of 
decency were often offended." 

The ecclesiastic contented himself with uttering a 
sigh and the pharmacist continued : 

"It is as it is in the Bible; there are do you 

know more than one detail piquant, things 

truly gay. ' ' 

And, following the gesture of irritation which Mon- 
sieur Bournisien made : 

" Ah ! you will admit that it is not a book to put in 
the hands of a young person, and I should be vexed if 
Athalie " 



PART SECOND 



341 



"But it is the Protestants and not us," cried the 
other, impatiently, "who recommend the Bible." 

"No matter ! " said Homais, " I am astonished that 
in our days, in a century of illumination, there is still 
an obstinate proscription of an intellectual relaxation 
which is inoffensive, moral, and even hygienic some- 
times, is it not, doctor?" 

"Doubtless," replied the medical man carelessly, as 
though having the same ideas, he did not wish to offend 
any one, or else he had no ideas at all. 

The conversation seemed ended, when the pharmacist 
judged it advisable to give another thrust. 

"I have known priests, who dressed themselves like 
bourgeois, go and see the dancers shake their legs." 

" Oh ! come now ! " said the cure. 

"Ah! I have known them." And, separating the 
syllables of his phrase, Homais repeated : " I — have — 
known — them." 

"Well, they were wrong," said Bournisien, resigned 
to hear anything. 

"Parbleu! they have done many other things!" 
exclaimed the apothecary. 

" Monsieur !!!" replied the ecclesiastic, with such 
ferocious eyes that the pharmacist was intimidated by 
them. 

" I wish only to say," he replied in a less aggressive 
tone, "that tolerance is the surest method of attracting 
souls to religion." 



342 MADAME BOVARY 

"That is true, that is true," conceded the goodman, 
reseating himself on his chair. 

He did not remain there more than two minutes. 
Then as soon as he had departed Monsieur Homais said 
to the doctor : 

"That is what is called a dispute. I rolled him 

over, as you saw, in fine fashion In short, take my 

advice, take madame to the theatre, if it were only for 
once in your life to put in a rage one of those ravens 
there, saperlotte! If anyone could take my place, I 
would accompany you. You will have to hurry up. 
Lagardy will only give one representation ; he has 
engagements in England at very considerable prices. 
He is, as they say, a famous fellow ! he rolls on gold ! 
he carries about with him three mistresses and his cook. 
All these great artists burn the candle at both ends, 
they require a scandalous existence which excites their 
imagination a little. But they die in a hospital, because 
they have not had the intelligence, when young, to 
practise economies. Come, I wish you a good appetite, 
till to-morrow." 

This idea of the theatre sprang up quickly in Bovary's 
head, for he immediately communicated it to his wife, 
who refused at first, alleging the fatigue, the trouble, 
the expense ; by an extraordinary chance, Charles did 
not yield, so beneficial did he think this recreation 
would be for her. He saw nothing to prevent it; his 
mother had sent them three hundred francs on which 



PART SECOND 343 

he had no longer counted, the current debts were not 
enormous, and the falling due of the notes of hand to the 
Sieur L'Heureux was still so far ahead that it was not 
necessary to think about them. Moreover, imagining 
that she was refusing through delicacy, Charles insisted 
all the more ; so that she finally, through much per- 
suasion, ended by yielding. And the next morning 
at eight o'clock they packed themselves in the Hiron- 
delle. 

The apothecary, whom nothing retained in Yonville 
but who thought himself constrained not to budge, 
sighed in seeing them depart. 

"Well, bon voyage ! " he said to them, "happy mor- 
tals that you are ! ' ' 

Then addressing himself to Emma, who wore a dress 
of blue silk with four furbelows : 

" It seems to me you are as pretty as a Cupid. You 
will cut a figure in Rouen." 

The diligence stopped at the Hotel of the Croix 
Rouge, on the Place Beauvoisine. It was one of those 
taverns such as there are in all the provincial suburbs, 
with big stables and little bedchambers, in which there 
may be seen in the middle of the court, chickens pick- 
ing up oats under the muddy cabriolets of the traveling 
salesmen ; — good old lodging with worm-eaten wooden 
balconies, which creaked in the wind in the winter 
nights continually, full of people, of uproar, and of 
eatables, the black tables of which are soiled by the 



344 MADAME BOVARY 

brandy-coffees, the thick windows yellowed by the flies, 
the damp napkins spotted by the blue wine, and smell 
always of the village, — as do the farm servants when 
dressed as bourgeois, — have a cafe on the street and 
on the side towards the country, a vegetable garden. 
Charles immediately set about his business. He con- 
founded the proscenium with the galleries, the parquet 
with the boxes, demanded explanations, did not under- 
stand them, was referred from the controller to the 
director, came back to the inn, returned to the office, 
and several times in this manner hurried the whole 
length of the town, from the theatre to the boulevard. 

Madame bought a bonnet, some gloves, a bouquet. 
Monsieur feared very much to miss the opening, and 
without having had the time to swallow a bouillon, they 
presented themselves before the doors of the theatre, 
which were not yet open. 



XV 



The crowd was stationed against the wall, or arranged 
symmetrically between the balustrades. At the angle 
of the neighboring streets, gigantic posters repeated 

in irregular characters: "Lucie de Lamermoor 

Lagardy Opera etc. " The weather was fine ; 

everyone was warm ; the perspiration trickled through 



PART SECOND 345 

the carefully curled hair, all the handkerchiefs pulled 
out wiped off red foreheads, and sometimes a warm 
wind which blew from the river shook softly the border 
of the awning in ticking, which hung over the doors of 
the drinking places. A little lower down, however, 
refreshment was to be had from a current of icy air 
which smelled of tallow, of leather and of oil. This 
was the exhalation of the Rue des Charrettes, full of 
great black warehouses in which the great casks are 
rolled about. 

For fear of seeming ridiculous, Emma wished before 
entering to take a little turn along the river front, and 
Bovary, through prudence, kept his tickets in his hand 
in the pocket of his pantaloons, which he carried 
against his stomach. 

In the vestibule, her heart began to beat. She 
smiled involuntarily with vanity in seeing the crowd 
hurrying to the right through the other corridor, whilst 
she mounted the stairway of the premieres. She expe- 
rienced a pleasure, like a child, in pushing with her 
fingers the large cloth doors ; she inspired with all her 
lungs the dusty odor of the passages and when she was 
seated in her box, she arched her figure with all the 
ease and grace of a duchess. 

The auditorium commenced to fill, the opera-glasses 
were drawn from their cases, and the subscribers, per- 
ceiving each other at a distance, exchanged salutations. 
They had come to find relaxation in the fine arts from 



346 MADAME BOVARY 

the anxieties of sales, but, in no wise forgetting business, 
they still talked of cottons, spirits or indigo. There 
could be seen heads of old men, inexpressive and 
pacific, and which, pale of hair and of complexion, resem- 
bled silver medals tarnished by the vapor of lead. The 
young beaux strutted about in the parquet, displaying 
in the opening of their waistcoats their cravats, pink or 
apple-green ; and Madame Bovary admired them from 
above, resting the stretched palms of their yellow gloves 
on their gold-headed canes. 

Then the candles in the orchestra were lighted ; the 
chandelier descended from the ceiling, shedding a sud- 
den brilliancy with the radiation of its facets throughout 
the theatre ; then the musicians entered one after the 
other, and it was at first a long charivari of basses 
snoring, of violins squeaking, of pistons trumpeting, of 
flutes and of flageolets piping. But there were heard 
three blows behind the curtain ; a rolling of kettle- 
drums began, the brass instruments blended in tune, 
and the curtain, rising, discovered a landscape. 

It was an opening in the woods, with a fountain at 
the left, shaded by an oak. Peasants and lords, their 
plaids on their shoulders, sang together a hunting-song ; 
then there came on a captain who invoked the angel of 
evil, lifting both his arms to Heaven ; another appeared ; 
they went away; and the hunters began again. 

She found herself again in the midst of her youthful 
readings, in the full spirit of Walter Scott. She seemed 



PART SECOND 347 

to hear, through the mist, the sound of the Scottish 
bag-pipes repeating themselves over the heather. More- 
over, the remembrance of the romance facilitating the 
comprehension of the libretto, she followed the action, 
phrase by phrase, whilst the indefinable thoughts which 
returned to her, dispersed themselves immediately under 
the gusts of the music. She allowed herself to be 
carried away by the swaying of the melodies and in 
feeling herself vibrate through her whole being, as if 
the bows of the violins were playing upon her nerves. 
She had not eyes enough to contemplate the costumes, 
the decorations, the personages, the painted trees which 
trembled when you walked, and the toques of velvet, 
the cloaks, the swords, all these imaginations which 
moved in harmony as if in the atmosphere of another 
world. But a young woman advanced, throwing a 
purse to a squire clothed in green. She remained on 
the stage alone, and then there was heard a flute which 
made, as it were, the murmuring of a fountain and 
the warblings of birds. Lucie commenced with a 
gallant air her cavatina in sol major; she com- 
plained of love, she wished for wings; Emma simi- 
larly would have wished, fleeing from life, to float 
away fast in a strong embrace. Suddenly Edgar 
Lagardy appeared. 

He had one of those splendid pale complexions 
which give something of the majesty of marble to the 
ardent people of the South. His vigorous figure was 



348 MADAME BOVARY 

inclosed in a doublet of a brown color; a little chiseled 
poignard hung against his left thigh, and he cast around 
languorous looks, showing his white teeth. It was said 
that a Polish princess, hearing him singing one evening 
on the beach at Biarritz, where he was mending boats, 
fell in love with him. She ruined herself for him. 
He had forsaken her for other women ; and this senti- 
mental celebrity did not fail to serve his artistic reputa- 
tion. The diplomatic actor even took pains to have 
inserted in his advertisements some poetic phrase 
concerning the fascination of his person and the 
sensitiveness of his soul. A fine organ, an imper- 
turbable assurance, more temperament than intelli- 
gence and emphasis than lyric character, combined 
to heighten this admirable nature of the charlatan, 
in which there was something of the hairdresser and 
of the toreador. 

He awoke enthusiasm from the very first scene. He 
pressed Lucie in his arms, he quitted her, he returned 
to her, he seemed to despair ; he gave way to bursts of 
anger, then long-drawn elegiac notes of an infinite 
sweetness, and the notes escaped from his naked neck, 
full of sobs and of kisses. Emma leaned far over to 
see him, scratching the velvet of her box with her finger 
nails. She filled her heart with these melodious 
lamentations which trailed themselves out to the accom- 
paniment of the double basses, like the cries of the 
shipwrecked in the tumult of a tempest. She recognized 



PART SECOND 349 

all the intoxications and the anguishes of which she, 
herself, had all but died. The voice of the heroine 
seemed to her only the re-echoing of her own con- 
science, and this illusion which charmed her, something 
even taken from her own life. But no one on the 
earth had loved her with such a love. He had not 
wept like Edgar, that last evening in the moonlight 
when they said to each other, "Till to-morrow, till 

to-morrow ! ' ' The theatre rang with a storm 

of applause ; the entire stretto was recommenced ; 
the lovers spoke of the flowers of their tomb, of 
oaths, of exile, of fatality, of hopes, and when they 
uttered their final farewell, Emma gave vent to a 
sharp cry which was lost in the vibrations of the last 
strains. 

"Why is it," asked Bovary, "that that seigneur is 
persecuting her ? ' ' 

"Why no," she replied, "he is her lover." 

"However, he swears to avenge himself on her 
family, whilst the other, he who just came in, said : ' I 
love Lucie and I think myself beloved by her.' More- 
over, he went off with her father, arm in arm. That's 
her father, is it not, the little ugly man who has a 
cock's feather in his hat?" 

Notwithstanding Emma's explanations from the reci- 
tative duet in which Gilbert exposes to his master 
Ashton his abominable machinations, Charles, seeing 
the false betrothal ring which is to deceive Lucie, 



350 MADAME BOVARY 

thought that it was a love souvenir sent by Edgar. He 
admitted, for that matter, that he did not understand 
the story because of the music which interfered very 
greatly with the words. 

"What does it matter! " said Emma, "keep still." 

"It is because," he replied, leaning on her shoulder, 
"that I like to understand things, you know very 
well." 

" Keep still ! keep still ! " she said impatiently. 

Lucie advanced, half-supported by her women, an 
orange-flower wreath on her hair and paler than the 
white satin of her dress. Emma thought of the day of 
her own marriage ; and she saw herself again, yonder 
in the middle of the grain, on the narrow path, when 
they were walking toward the church. 

Why then had she not, like this one, resisted, sup- 
plicated ? On the contrary, she had been joyful, with- 
out perceiving the abyss into which she was precipitating 

herself Ah ! if in the freshness of her beauty, 

before the soilings of marriage and the disillusions of 
adultery, she had been able to place her life in the 
keeping of some great strong heart, then, virtue, ten- 
derness, voluptuousness and duty, all mingling, never 
would she have descended from so high a felicity. 
But this happiness, doubtless, was only a falsehood 
conceived to bring despair to all desire. She knew at 
present the littlenesses of passion which art exagger- 
ated. Endeavoring then to turn her thoughts from 



PART SECOND 351 

it, Emma wished to see in this reproduction of her 
sorrows no more than a plastic fancy good to amuse 
the eyes with, and she even smiled inwardly with 
a disdainful pity when at the back of the scene, 
under the velvet portiere, a man appeared in a black 
cloak. 

His large Spanish hat was thrown aside in his gesture ; 
and immediately the instruments and the singers took 
up the sextet. Edgar, sparkling with fury, dominated 
all the others with his clear voice. Ashton launched 
at him in grave notes homicidal provocations. Lucie 
uttered her sharp complaint. Arthur modulated apart 
his medium notes, and the counter-tenor of the minister 
droned like an organ, while the voices of the women, 
repeating his words, took up the chorus, delightfully. 
They were all in the same line gesticulating; and 
anger, vengeance, jealousy, terror, pity and stupefaction 
exhaled at once from their open mouths. The out- 
raged lover brandished his naked sword ; his lace collar 
rose by sudden movements, following the inflations of 
his chest, and he strolled from right to left with great 
steps, making his silver-gilt spurs, which spread out at 
the ankles, sound against the floor. It seemed to her 
that he must have an inexhaustible love to be able thus 
to pour it out upon the crowd in such abundant waves. 
All these slight shades of disparagement disappeared 
under the poetry of the role which gradually took 
possession of her ; and, drawn toward the man by the 



352 A\ADAME BOVARY 

illusion of the character, she endeavored to figure to 
herself his life, this sounding, extraordinary, splendid 
life, and which she now would have been able to lead if 
chance had so willed it. They would have known each 
other, they would have loved each other. With him 
through all the kingdoms of Europe she would have 
traveled from capital to capital, sharing his fatigues and 
his triumphs, picking up the flowers which were thrown 
to him, embroidering, herself, his costumes ; then, each 
evening at the back of a box behind a screen of gold 
and lattice work, she would have received, open- 
mouthed, the expansions of this soul who would have 
sung for her alone ; on the boards, while playing, he 
would have looked at her. But a madness seized her ; 
he was looking at her, it was certain ! She had a desire 
to rush into his arms in order to take refuge in his 
strength, as in the incarnation of love itself, and to say 
to him, to cry to him: "Carry me off, take me away, 
let us depart ! I am thine, I am thine, all my ardor and 
all my dreams ! ' ' 

The curtain fell. 

The odor of gas began to mingle with the breaths ; 
the wind caused by the fans made the atmosphere more 
smothering. Emma wished to go out ; the crowd 
encumbered the corridors, and she fell back in her seat 
with suffocating palpitations of the heart. Charles, 
afraid to see her faint, hastened to the buffet to get her 
a glass of orgeat. 



PART SECOND 353 

He had the greatest trouble to regain his place, for 
he was elbowed at every step because of the glass 
which he held between his hands, and he even spilled 
three-fourths of the contents on the naked shoulders of 
a Rouenese lady, in short sleeves, who, feeling the cold 
liquid flow down her loins, uttered peacock cries as if 
she had been assassinated. Her husband, who was the 
proprietor of a spinning factory, flew into a rage at this 
awkward person, and while she wiped off with her 
handkerchief the spots on her pretty dress of cherry- 
colored taffeta, he muttered in a surly tone the words, 
indemnity, costs and reimbursements. Finally, Charles 
succeeded in reaching his wife, saying to her quite 
breathless : 

" Faith ! I thought that I should have to stay there ! 
there is such a crowd ! a crowd ! ' ' 

He added : 

"Guess a little whom I met up there? Monsieur 
Leon." 

"Leon!" 

" Himself! He is coming to present his respects to 
you." 

And as he uttered these words, the former clerk of 
Yonville entered the box. 

He offered his hand with the easy assurance of a 
gentleman, and Madame Bovary mechanically put out 
her own, doubtless obeying the attraction of a stronger 
will. She had not felt it since that spring evening 



354 MADAME BOVARY 

when it rained on the green leaves, when they bade 
each other farewell, standing by the window. But, 
quickly recalling the propriety of the situation, she 
shook off with an effort this torpor of her souvenirs 
and began to stammer in rapid phrases : 

"Ah, good day ! how ! you here?" 

"Silence!" cried a voice from the portiere, for the 
third act had commenced. 

"You are then in Rouen?" 

"Yes." 

' ' And since when ? ' ' 

"Go out ! go out!" 

People were turning toward them ; they ceased 
speaking. 

But from that moment, she no longer listened ; and 
the chorus of the guests, the scene of Ashton and his 
valet, the grand duet in re major, everything passed 
before her in a distance, as if the instruments had 
become less sonorous and the personages further away. 
She recalled the card parties at the house of the apothe- 
cary and the walk to the nurse's, the readings under 
the arbor, the tete-a-tetes at the corner of the fire, all 
that poor love so calm and so long, so discreet, so 
tender, which she had however forgotten. Why had 
Leon returned? What combination of adventures 
replaced him in her life? He stood behind her, 
leaning his shoulder against the partition ; and from 
time to time she felt herself tremble under the warm 



PART SECOND 355 

breath from his nostrils which descended into her 
hair. 

" Does this amuse you?" he said, leaning over her so 
near that the point of his moustache touched her 
cheek. 

She replied carelessly : 

" Oh, Mon Dieu ! No, not very much." 

Then he made a proposition to leave the theatre, to 
go out and take some ices somewhere. 

" Ah ! not yet, let us stay," said Bovary. " She has 
her hair loosened ; this promises to be tragical ! " 

But the mad scene did not in the least interest 
Emma, and the acting of the singer seemed to her 
exaggerated. 

"She cries too loudly," she said, turning towards 
Charles, who was listening. 

"Yes perhaps a little," he replied, unde- 
cided between the enjoyment of his own pleasure and 
the respect which he entertained for his wife's opinion. 

Then Leon said with a sigh : 

"It is so hot " 

"It is insupportable, that is true." 

"Are you uncomfortable?" asked Bovary. 

"Yes, I am suffocating, let us go." 

Monsieur Leon placed lightly upon her shoulders her 
long lace shawl, and they all three went to seat them- 
selves on the river front, in the open air, before the 
windows of a cafe. 



356 MADAME BOVARY 

The conversation first turned on Emma's sickness, 
although she interrupted Charles from time to time for 
fear, as she said, of wearying Monsieur Leon ; and the 
latter related to them that he had come to Rouen to 
pass two years in hard study, to train himself to busi- 
ness, which was managed somewhat differently in 
Normandy from that which was carried on in Paris. 
Then he asked after Berthe, the Homais family, the 
Mere Lefrancois, and, as they had nothing more to say 
before the husband, the conversation presently came to 
an end. 

People coming out from the theatre passed before 
them on the sidewalk, all of them humming or bawling 
full-throated: "O bel ange ma Lucie." Then Leon, to 
play the dilettante, began to discuss music. He had 
seen Tamburini, Rubini, Persiani, Grisi, and beside 
them Lagardy, notwithstanding his great displays, was 
worth nothing. 

"However," interrupted Charles, who was taking in 
little sips, his sherbet with rum, "they say that in the 
last act he is quite admirable ; I am sorry we left before 
the end, for it was beginning to amuse me. ' ' 

"For that matter," replied the clerk, "he will soon 
give another performance." 

But Charles replied that they were going to leave the 
next day. 

"Unless," he added, turning toward his wife, "you 
would like to stay here alone, my little dear?" 



PART SECOND 357 

And changing his manoeuvres before this unexpected 
occasion which offered itself to his hopes, the young 
man launched into a eulogy of Lagardy in the final 
scene. It was something superb, sublime ! Then 
Charles insisted : 

"You can come back Sunday. See now, make up 
your mind, you will be wrong, if you feel the least in 
the world that this might benefit you." 

However, the tables around them began to empty ; a 
waiter came discreetly to take his stand near them ; 
Charles, who comprehended, drew out his purse ; the 
clerk restrained him by the arm, and even did not for- 
get to leave in addition two silver pieces, which he 
made ring upon the marble. 

"I am mortified, truly," murmured Bovary, "at the 
money which you " 

The other made a disdainful gesture full of cordiality 
and taking his hat : 

"That is understood, is it not, to-morrow at six 
o'clock?" 

Charles protested once more that he could not be 
absent himself any longer, but nothing prevented 
Emma. 

"The trouble is " she stammered with a singu- 
lar smile, " I do not know too well " 

" Well, you can think over it, we shall see, the night 
brings good counsel." 

Then to Ldon who accompanied them : 



358 MADAME BOVARY 

" Now that you are again in our part of the country, 
you will come I hope, from time to time to ask a dinner 
of us?" 

The clerk affirmed that he would not fail, having, 
moreover, occasion to go to Yonville for an affair con- 
nected with his studies. And they separated before the 
Passage Saint-Herbland, at the moment when half-past 
eleven sounded from the Cathedral. 



NOTES 

l Officiers de Santf, petty physicians who have not taken all their 
degrees, but who practice in a country district and in serious cases 
are bound to call in a regular physician. 

* A popular astrological almanac, so called from the name of its 
reputed first author, Mathieu Lasnsbergh, or Lansbert, canon of 
Liege about 1600. (Note by translator.) 



Hist of illustrations 

MADAME BOVARY 
VOLUME I 



PAGE 



EMMA VISITS HER CHILD Fronts. 

THE MARRIAGE PROCESSION 46 

THE Lion d' Or 118 

MONSIEUR L'HEUREUX, PEDLAR 1 64 

EMMA AND THE ABBE BOURNISIEN 1 76 

EMMA AND RODOLPHE 252 



359