Genesis.
Chapter 22.
After a long time God tested Abraham. He said to him, “Abraham!” “Yes?” 
He said to him, “Your own child, that Isaac, truly you love him. Take him, you two go to a far-off place, to the country Moriah. In the hills I will show you one hill/rock. Right there kill you own child, put his body on the fire, burn it to ashes. Do like that for me.” 
At daybreak Abraham got up from sleep. He got firewood, he put it on a donkey. After that Abraham and two workers and Isaac went to that country, to Moriah they were going. 
After two camps he saw that hill from far away. 
He said to his two workers, “Stay right here, the donkey also. We two, the child and I, will go there, we will give an animal/meat to God. After that we will return to you two.” 
Abraham put the firewood on Isaac's shoulder. Abraham carried the knife and the firestick. Then they went. 
Isaac said to his father, “Father!” “Yes?” “We are taking firewood and a knife. Where is that sheep we will kill for God?” 
Abraham said to him, “God himself will give us a sheep to burn.” After that they were going. 
They arrived there, earlier God told Abraham about that place. Abraham gathered stones, he put the firewood on top, he did not light it. He tied up his son, he put him on top of the wood. 
After that he picked up the knife to kill the child. 
From the sky God called to him, “Abraham! Abraham!” “Yes?” 
“Stop! Do not kill your son! I was just testing you. Earlier I told you, you will kill your son, you will give him to me. You did not withhold him from me. From that I know about you, you continually do what I tell you.” In that way God spoke to Abraham. 
Abraham looked, he saw a ram close by, its horns were stuck in a tree, it could not pull itself out. He got that animal, he killed it for God. He did not kill his own child, he kept him alive in accordance with God's word. 
After that Abraham named that hill “God Is A Giver”. Therefore right up till now they say, “On God's hill God will give to us.” 
Again God called to Abraham from the sky. 
“You listened to me, you did not withhold your own child from me. Therefore I will truly do good to you, I will give you many grandchildren's grandchildren and those who come after them. You know about the stars in the sky, they are very many. I am telling you now, I will also make your grandchildren's grandchilden and those who come after them very many. Some might dislike your mob, I will place your mob as bosses for those who dislike them. I will make it very good for your mob. All other people everywhere will say to me, 'God, you truly did good to Abraham's mob. Like that please do good to us also.' You trusted me. Therefore like that I will do good to you. I am putting down my word for you, that word will truly be for you forever.” In that way God spoke to Abraham. 
After that Abraham and Isaac returned to the two workers. After that they went to Beersheba. Abraham was staying there. 22:20-24 omitted. 
