Genesis.
Chapter 33.
After that Jacob looked, Esau was coming to him with 400 men. He put his children with their own mothers. 
He put the two working women and their children in the lead. Near those two he put Leah and her children, behind he put Rachel and her child Joseph. 
He went ahead, he met his brother. As he was going towards Esau he was bowing his head down 7 times. 
Then Esau in response ran to him, there those two hugged each other. They were crying with each other, they saw each other with happiness. 
After that Esau was looking around, truly he saw the women and children. “Who are these you are bringing?” “Those are the children God gave me.” 
Then the two working women and their children came close, they bowed their heads down in front of Esau. 
After that Leah and her children came close, they also bowed their heads down in front of Esau. Then Rachel and her child Joseph also came close, they also bowed their heads down in front of Esau. 
Then Esau asked, “Those animals I saw, why did you send them?” Jacob said to him, “Those are for you. As a result of my giving them you might feel good towards me.” 
“No, I have enough, younger brother. Keep them for yourself.” 
Jacob said to him, “Truly you were being good to me. You did not stay angry with me. Therefore I am very happy to see you. Please take those animals for yourself. 
God was doing good to me, he gave me many things. Take those animals for yourself.” Like that Jacob said to him. Esau replied, “Truly I will take them.” 
After that Esau said to him, “Let's we two go together, I will go ahead.” 
Jacob said to him, “My children are only weak, they should go not fast. My animals, the sheep and goats and cattle, have their little ones, I musttake care of them. After going a long way in one day they might die. 
You go ahead of me. I will come slowly behind with this lot. Later I will come to your camp in Edom.” 
Esau said to him, “Yes, I will leave these men with you, you will come behind.” Jacob replied, “Take your men. I just want you to feel good towards me.” 
After that Esau left his younger brother, he went back south to his country, to Edom. 
Jacob did not continue on towards Edom. He stopped partway, at what's-its-name, at Succoth. There he made a house for himself, he made bough shades for the animals also. Therefore now they name that camp Succoth. That name says, 'Bough Shades'. 
After that Jacob and his mob left that Succoth, they went west. They arrived at a town, at Shechem, in the country, in what's-its-name, in Canaan. He made his camp near the town. 
Earlier that country where he made his camp used to be Hamor's, Shechem's father. Jacob gave Hamor a lot of money for that country. 
There he heaped up stones. There he used to talk to God. He named that heap of stones El Elohe Israel. That name says, 'God is the One who cares for Israel'. Chapter 34 has been omitted at this stage. 
