Genesis.
Chapter 17.
Abram became old, having 99 years. After that God again appeared to him. He said to him, “I am the greatest lit. 'I truly am another', very strong. All others are weak alongside me. Listen to me, do the right thing always. 
I will give you many grandchildren's grandchildren and those who come after them. That really true word I give you.” 
Abram knelt down with his forehead on the ground. God said to him, 
“I am putting this my word down for you, truly you will be grandfather for many people. Your grandchildren's grand-children and those who come after them will spread out in many countries. 
Therefore now I am giving you another name. From now your name will be Abraham. That name says, 'Father For Many'. 
Yes, I will give you many grandchildren's grandchildren and those who come after them. They will spread out to many countries far and near. From them there will be some important bosses. 
This word is for you and for the children who will come after you, it will be forever. I will be a father for all of you. 
Yes, this country, they name it Canaan country, I will give to your grandchildren's grandchildren and those who come after them. Now you are staying in this country like a stranger. Later all this country will belong to your mob forever, I will be a father for them. 
You and your mob who will come after you must believe my word forever. From now on you must cut euphemism for 'circumcise' all your (pl) males. When you do like that all people will know about you, you are my people. 
When the little ones have 8 days you (pl) must cut them all. Your workers also you must cut. Perhaps a working person's male children will be born in your camp. You must cut them. Perhaps you will get with money workers from foreign countries. Those also you must cut. Like that you must do. 
You must believe this word of mine. Those who don't believe me will not be my people. They ignore my word. Therefore I will not be a father for them. 
This other word I am telling you (sg). Your wife, Sarai, she will have another name. From now you will not name her Sarai. You will name her Sarah. 
I will do good to her, I will give you two a child, Sarah will give birth to a child. Sarah's descendents will become many. They will spread out in every direction, they will settle in different countries. Some from among them will become important bosses.” 
Abraham knelt down, his forehead down on the ground. He laughed to himself, he said to himself, “I am very old, I have 100 years. How will I now become a father for my child? Sarah is old also, she has 90 years. How now will she give birth to a child?” 
After that Abraham said to him, “God, perhaps you will do good to my child, Ishmael, to his descendants also you will do good.” 
In reply God said to him, “Truly your wife Sarah, she will give birth to a child. You will name him Isaac. I will look after him, in accord with my word, him and his descendants. They will be my people forever. 
You asked me to do good to Ishmael. Yes, I heard you. I will do good to him also, I will give him many people. He will have 12 sons. They will become important bosses. Their descendants will become many. 
That Isaac, he is the one who will be mine forever. I will be Father to him. Sarah will give birth to him about this time in one year.” In that way God spoke to Abraham. 
After he finished talking to Abraham God went away. 
There were very many working men in Abraham's camp. Some he had earlier got with money, others earlier had grown up from infancy in his camp. On that very day Abraham gathered all the men in his camp, old ones and children. On that very day in accord with God's word Abraham cut all the men. Another person cut him also. At that time Abraham was an old man, he had 99 years. His son, Ishmael, had 13 years. Truly on that one day those two were cut, Abraham and his son, Ishmael. 
