Genesis.
Chapter 12.
While Abram's father was alive God spoke to Abram, “You(sg) will 'you are to'; this future form is often used as a mild imperative, which the hearer has the option of disobeying leave your country, you will leave your father's camp, you will leave the others. You will go to another country, later I will show you, after you arrive there I will tell you, 'This is that very country.' 
I will give you very many grandchildren's grandchildren and those who come after them. I will make you a big boss, I truly will do good to you. 
Some will do good to you, I will do good to them. Others will do bad to you, I will do bad to them. As a result of your mob I will do good to all people, in other countries everywhere.” 
After that Abram went in accordance with God's word. At that time he was old, he had 75 years. He took his wife Sarai, his younger brother's son Lot also, he took his animals and belongings. He took his men also, all his workers, he got them in that town Haran. They all went from Haran, they were going southwards, towards the country Canaan they were going. They were going for many days lit. 'camps, camps they were going'. They arrived there, in Canaan. 
They were going. Partway still in Canaan they rested near a big tree, they made a camp site at what's-its-name, near that tree named Moreh. That tree was near the town Shechem. (At that time Canaan's mob were still living in that country too.) 
After that God appeared to Abram, he said to him, “This very country I will give to your grandchildren's grandchildren and those who come after them.” Because of that Abram gathered stones there, he made a heap. There he worshipped God lit. 'from the stomach he praised him'. 
After that they went southwards to the hilly country east of what's-that-place, Bethel. They made a camp east of Bethel and west of what's-that-place, Ai, there they put their tents. Again he gathered stones, he made a heap, there he worshipped God. 
After that they were going southwards, camp after camp, they were going towards the desert. 
After that the country became dry, without water, without food. Abram and his animals were staying in a bad way. After that Abram and his mob left that country, they went westwards to that country, to Egypt, to make camp there. 
As they were going Abram said to his wife, “Your face is beautiful. 
Those men in Egypt will see you, they will desire you. Perhaps they will say to each other, 'That is his wife. We might kill the man, we will keep the woman alive.' 
To avoid that you tell them, 'This is my older brother.' You will do that, they will not kill me, they will do good to me.” 
They arrived in the country, in Egypt. The inhabitants of the land saw Sarai. They were thinking, “That woman's face is beautiful.” 
Some important ones were looking at her, they liked her, they told their big boss, “Wow! That woman, Abram's younger sister, has a really beautiful face.” The boss said to them, “Bring that woman to me.” They took Sarai to him. 
In return the boss gave Abram many sheep and cows and donkeys and camels and working people, men and women. 
Sarai was stopping in the camp of the big boss. After that God made the boss and his mob sick. A very big sickness came on them. 
After that the boss sent a message to Abram, “Come here.” He growled at him, “You did the wrong thing to me. You lied to me about your wife. 
Why did you say, 'She is a younger sister to me'? Because of your word I took her for a wife. She is your wife. Take her! You two go for good!” 
He told his men to send Abram right away. 
