Genesis.
Chapter 14.
Lot was staying in his camp on the plain, inside Sodom. After that people from the east, foreigners, gathered together, they came to hit the inhabitants near Sodom. One man from the east, named Kedorlaomer, was boss for his town, for Elam. That very one had earlier made himself boss for the people near Sodom. He forced them by fighting to give money. Those people near Sodom were giving him money for a long time, 12 years. At last they said to each other, “From now we won't give money to Kedorlaomer, we will withhold it. We will not listen to him.” 
For that reason Kedorlaomer, that Elam boss from the east, and other bosses gathered together, from a few towns they gathered eastwards. They gathered their fighting men together. After that they all went to fight against the inhabitants near Sodom. They were going southwards, they avoided Sodom, that was west of them. They were going southwards, after that westwards, after that northwards, while going through the countries they were killing all the people. At last they came right to Sodom. 
The bosses from those towns, from what's-their-names, Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, Zeboiim and Bela, those bosses gathered together their fighters, with weapons. They went to meet the ones from the east. In that valley, what's-its-name, Siddim, the people from around Sodom and the ones from the east were fighting. 
In that valley there were many holes in the ground, with what's-its-name, with bitmumen. Those fighters from Sodom and Gomorrah ran away for fear of the fight. Some entered the holes, others ran to the hilly country. 
After that those easterners took for themselves all the food and belongings from Sodom and Gomorrah. 
They took Lot also, Abram's younger brother's son. They took Lot's belongings. They also took all the other people. They left to go to their own country. 
At that time Abram was near Mamre's tree/s. Mamre and his two younger brothers, Eschol and Aner, were friends of Abram. One man ran from the fight, he came to Abram, he said to him, “Those fighters from the east took your brother's son, they took Lot with them.” 
Abram when he heard that word gathered his fighting men. Those 318 went with Abram. They followed those (people) from the east. Mamre and Eschol and Aner also went. From behind they were following the easterners, they went a long way northwards, all the way to that country, to Dan. 
In the night Abram split up his men, he spread them out. At that very time they hit the easterners hard, they caused them to run away for good, they chased them northwards to another country, towards Homah beyond what's-that-place, beyond Damascus. 
After that Abram's men got back all the possessions of the inhabitants of Sodom and Gomorrah, Lot and his possessions, the women and all the other prisoners. After that they all returned southwards. 
As Abram was returning to the camp that Sodom boss went to meet him in the valley, named Shaveh valley. 
Another man, named Melchizedek, also came to him there, he brought bread and wine for Abram. That Melchizedek was boss for that town Salem. From earlier he was also a ceremonial leader for God, for that Boss who is above. 
This ceremonial leader Melchizedek said to Abram, “You know God. He is boss above. He is the one who made the sky and the ground and the sea and everything also. I am asking God that he will do good to you. Let us all praise God, the Boss above. He rescued you, for you he hit the fighters from the east completely.” After that Abram from the belongings he brought back gave (some) to him. From 10 cattle he gave one, from 10 sheep he gave one, from everything in that way he gave animals and belongings to Melchizedek. 
That Sodom boss said to Abram, “The belongings which have been brought back you will keep for yourself. I only want my people.” 
Abram replied, “I will not keep your belongings, not any. God is Boss for all, he is the one who made everything, the sky and the ground and the sea also. I have already told God I will not keep your belongings, not even a little cloth. You might say, 'I truly gave Abram all his belongings.' 
You might say like that. To avoid that I will not keep your belongings. Just food I will keep for my young men. These others I also took with me, Aner and Eschol and Mamre. Give belongings to those men.” 
