Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 66.
Adonai says, “Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build to me? Where will I rest? 
For my hand has made all these things, and so all these things came to be,” says Adonai : “but to this man will I look, even to he who is poor and of a contrite spirit, and who trembles at my word. 
He who kills an ox is as he who kills a man; he who sacrifices a lamb, as he who breaks a dog’s neck; he who offers an offering, as he who offers pig’s blood; he who burns frankincense, as he who blesses an idol. Yes, they have chosen their own ways, and their soul delights in their abominations: 
I also will choose their delusions, and will bring their fears on them; because when I called, no one answered; when I spoke, they didn’t sh'ma ·hear obey·; but they did that which was evil in my eyes, and chose that in which I didn’t delight.” 
Sh'ma ·Hear obey· Adonai ’s word, you who tremble at his word: “Your brothers who hate you, who cast you out for my name’s sake, have said, ‘Let Adonai be glorified, that we may see your joy;’ but it is those who shall be disappointed. 
A voice of tumult from the city, a voice from the temple, a voice of Adonai that repays his enemies what they deserve. 
“Before she travailed, she gave birth. Before her pain came, she delivered a son. 
Who has sh'ma ·heard obeyed· of such a thing? Who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? Shall a nation be born at once? For as soon as Zion Mountain ridge, Marking travailed, she gave birth to her children. 
Shall I bring to the birth, and not cause to be delivered?” says Adonai . “Shall I who cause to give birth shut the womb?” says your God. 
“Rejoice with Jerusalem City of peace, and be glad for her, all you who 'ahav ·affectionately love· her. Rejoice for joy with her, all you who mourn over her; 
that you may nurse and be satisfied at the comforting breasts; that you may drink deeply, and be delighted with the abundance of her kavod ·weighty glory·.” 
For Adonai says, “Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the kavod ·weighty glory· of the nations like an overflowing stream; and you will nurse. You will be carried on her side, and will be dandled on her knees. 
As one whom his mother comforts, so will I comfort you. You will be comforted in Jerusalem City of peace.” 
You will see it, and your heart shall rejoice, and your bones will flourish like the tender grass. Adonai ’s hand will be known among his servants; and he will have indignation against his enemies. 
For, behold, Adonai will come with fire, and his chariots will be like the whirlwind; to render his anger with fierceness, and his rebuke with flames of fire. 
For Adonai will execute judgment by fire and by his sword on all flesh; and those slain by Adonai will be many. 
“Those who sanctify themselves and purify themselves to go to the gardens, behind one in the middle, eating pig’s meat, abominable things, and the mouse, they shall come to an end together,” says Adonai . 
“For I know their works and their thoughts. The time comes that I will gather all nations and languages, and they will come, and will see my kavod ·weighty glory·. 
“I will set a sign among them, and I will send those who escape of them to the nations, to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, who draw the bow, to Tubal and Javan, to far away islands, who have not sh'ma ·heard obeyed· my fame, nor have seen my kavod ·weighty glory·; and they shall declare my kavod ·weighty glory· among the nations. 
They shall bring all your brothers out of all the nations for an offering to Adonai , on horses, in chariots, in litters, on mules, and on camels, to my holy mountain Jerusalem City of peace, says Adonai , as the children of Israel God prevails bring their offering in a clean vessel into Adonai ’s house. 
Of them I will also select priests and Levites Descendants of United with,” says Adonai . 
“For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me,” says Adonai , “so your offspring and your name shall remain. 
It shall happen that from one new moon to another, and from one Sabbath ·To cease· to another, all flesh will come to hawa ·bow low, prostrate· to worship before me,” says Adonai . 
“They will go out, and look at the dead bodies of the men who have transgressed against me; for their worm will not die, nor will their fire be quenched, and they will be loathsome to all mankind.” 
