Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 7.
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Behold, I have made you as God to Pharaoh; and Aaron Light-bringer your brother shall be your prophet. 
You shall speak all that I enjoin you; and Aaron Light-bringer your brother shall speak to Pharaoh, that he let the children of Israel God prevails go out of his land. 
I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. 
But Pharaoh will not sh'ma ·hear obey· you, and I will lay my hand on Egypt Abode of slavery, and bring out my armies, my people the children of Israel God prevails, out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery by great judgments. 
The Egyptians people from Abode of slavery shall know that I am Adonai , when I stretch out my hand on Egypt Abode of slavery, and bring out the children of Israel God prevails from among them.” 
Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer did so. As Adonai enjoined them, so they did. 
Moses Drawn out was eighty years old, and Aaron Light-bringer eighty-three years old, when they spoke to Pharaoh. (4) 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out and to Aaron Light-bringer, saying, 
“When Pharaoh speaks to you, saying, ‘Perform a miracle!’ then you shall tell Aaron Light-bringer, ‘Take your rod, and cast it down before Pharaoh, that it become a serpent.’” 
Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer went in to Pharaoh, and they did so, as Adonai had enjoined: and Aaron Light-bringer cast down his rod before Pharaoh and before his servants, and it became a serpent. 
Then Pharaoh also called for the wise men and the sorcerers. They also, the magicians of Egypt Abode of slavery, did the same thing with their enchantments. 
For they each cast down their rods, and they became serpents: but Aaron Light-bringer’s rod swallowed up their rods. 
Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he didn’t sh'ma ·hear obey· them; as Adonai had spoken. 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Pharaoh’s heart is stubborn. He refuses to let the people go. 
Go to Pharaoh in the morning. Behold, he goes out to the water; and you shall stand by the river’s bank to meet him; and the rod which was turned to a serpent you shall take in your hand. 
You shall tell him, ‘Adonai , the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to you, saying, “Let my people go, that they may abad ·serve· me in the wilderness:” and behold, until now you haven’t sh'ma ·heard obeyed·. 
Adonai says, “In this you shall know that I am Adonai . Behold, I will strike with the rod that is in my hand on the waters which are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood. 
The fish that are in the river shall die, and the river shall become foul; and the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery shall loathe to drink water from the river.”’” 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Tell Aaron Light-bringer, ‘Take your rod, and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt Abode of slavery, over their rivers, over their streams, and over their pools, and over all their ponds of water, that they may become blood; and there shall be blood throughout all the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, both in wood buckets and in stone jars.’” 
Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer did so, as Adonai enjoined; and he lifted up the rod, and struck the waters that were in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters that were in the river were turned to blood. 
The fish that were in the river died; and the river became foul, and the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery couldn’t drink water from the river; and the blood was throughout all the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. 
The magicians of Egypt Abode of slavery did the same thing with their enchantments; and Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he didn’t sh'ma ·hear obey· them; as Adonai had spoken. 
Pharaoh turned and went into his house, and he didn’t even take this to heart. 
All the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery dug around the river for water to drink; for they couldn’t drink the river water. 
Seven days were fulfilled, after Adonai had struck the river. 
