The Good News Recorded by Matthew / Mattiyahu [Gift of Yah].
Chapter 1.
The book of the genealogy of Yeshua Messiah Anointed one, the son of David Beloved, the son of Abraham Father of a multitude. 
Abraham Father of a multitude became the father of Isaac Laughter. Isaac Laughter became the father of Jacob Supplanter. Jacob Supplanter became the father of Judah Praised and his brothers. 
Judah Praised became the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar Palm tree. Perez became the father of Hezron. Hezron became the father of Ram. 
Ram became the father of Amminadab. Amminadab became the father of Nahshon. Nahshon became the father of Salmon. 
Salmon became the father of Boaz In majesty, in strength by Rahab. Boaz In majesty, in strength became the father of Obed by Ruth Friend. Obed became the father of Jesse My husband. 
Jesse My husband became the father of King David Beloved. David Beloved became the father of Solomon Peaceable, Recompense by her who had been Uriah My light Yah’s wife. 
Solomon Peaceable, Recompense became the father of Rehoboam. Rehoboam became the father of Abijah My father Yah. Abijah My father Yah became the father of Asa. 
Asa became the father of Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat became the father of Joram. Joram became the father of Uzziah. 
Uzziah became the father of Jotham. Jotham became the father of Ahaz. Ahaz became the father of Hezekiah. 
Hezekiah became the father of Manasseh Causing to forget. Manasseh Causing to forget became the father of Amon. Amon became the father of Josiah. 
Josiah became the father of Jechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the exile to Babylon Confusion. 
After the exile to Babylon Confusion, Jechoniah became the father of Shealtiel. Shealtiel became the father of Zerubbabel. 
Zerubbabel became the father of Abiud. Abiud became the father of Eliakim. Eliakim became the father of Azor. 
Azor became the father of Zadok. Zadok became the father of Achim. Achim became the father of Eliud. 
Eliud became the father of Eleazar Help of God. Eleazar Help of God became the father of Matthan. Matthan became the father of Jacob Supplanter. 
Jacob Supplanter became the father of Joseph May he add, the husband of Mary Rebellion, from whom was born Yeshua Salvation, who is called Messiah Anointed one. 
So all the generations from Abraham Father of a multitude to David Beloved are fourteen generations; from David Beloved to the exile to Babylon Confusion fourteen generations; and from the carrying away to Babylon Confusion to the Messiah Anointed one, fourteen generations. 
Now the birth of Yeshua Messiah Salvation Anointed one was like this; for after his mother, Mary Rebellion, was engaged to Joseph May he add, before they came together, she was found pregnant by Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness. 
Joseph May he add, her husband, being a upright man, and not willing to make her a public example, intended to divorce her secretly. 
But when he thought about these things, behold, an angel of MarYah Master Yahweh appeared to him in a dream, saying, “Joseph May he add, son of David Beloved, don’t be afraid to take to yourself Mary Rebellion, your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness. 
She shall give birth to a son. You shall call his name Yeshua Salvation, for it is he who shall save his people from their sins.” 
Now all this has happened, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by MarYah Master Yahweh through the prophet, saying, 
“Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and shall give birth to a son. They shall call his name 'Immanu El God is with us;” which is, being interpreted, “God with us.” 
Joseph May he add arose from his sleep, and did as the angel of MarYah Master Yahweh commanded him, and took his wife to himself; 
and didn’t know her sexually until she had given birth to her firstborn son. He named him Yeshua Salvation. 
