Matthew [Gift of Yah].
Chapter 14.
At that time, Herod Heroic the tetrarch (one of four co-emperors) heard the report concerning Yeshua Salvation, 
and said to his servants, “This is John Yah is gracious the Immerser. He is risen from the dead. That is why these powers work in him.” 
For Herod Heroic had laid hold of John Yah is gracious, and bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip Loves horses’s wife. 
For John Yah is gracious said to him, “It violates the Torah ·Teaching· for you to have her as your wife.” 
When he would have put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet. 
But when Herod Heroic’s birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced among them and pleased Herod Heroic. 
There he promised with an oath to give her whatever she should ask. 
She, being prompted by her mother, said, “Give me here on a platter the head of John Yah is gracious the Immerser.” 
The king was grieved, but for the sake of his oaths, and of those who sat at the table with him, he commanded it to be given, 
and he sent and beheaded John Yah is gracious in the prison. 
His head was brought on a platter, and given to the young lady: and she brought it to her mother. 
His disciples came, and took the body, and buried it; and they went and told Yeshua Salvation. 
Now when Yeshua Salvation heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat, to a deserted place apart. When the multitudes heard it, they followed him on foot from the cities. 
Yeshua Salvation went out, and he saw a great multitude. He had compassion on them, and healed their sick. 
When evening had come, his disciples came to him, saying, “This place is deserted, and the hour is already late. Send the multitudes away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves food.” 
But Yeshua Salvation said to them, “They don’t need to go away. You give them something to eat.” 
They told him, “We only have here five loaves and two fish.” 
He said, “Bring them here to me.” 
He commanded the multitudes to sit down on the grass; and he took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, broke and gave the loaves to the disciples, and the disciples gave to the multitudes. 
They all ate, and were filled. They took up twelve baskets full of that which remained left over from the broken pieces. 
Those who ate were about five thousand men, besides women and children. 
Immediately Yeshua Salvation made the disciples get into the boat, and to go ahead of him to the other side, while he sent the multitudes away. 
After he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into the mountain by himself to pray. When evening had come, he was there alone. 
But the boat was now in the middle of the sea, a stadious’ distance 1/8 mi; 660 ft; 201.2 m, Greek race track distance, distressed by the waves, for the wind was contrary. 
It was about 4 o'clock in the morning, Yeshua Salvation came to them, walking on the sea. 
When the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, “It’s a ghost!” and they cried out for fear. 
But immediately Yeshua Salvation spoke to them, saying, “Take heart! Ena Na I AM (the Living God)! Don’t be afraid.” 
Peter Rock answered him and said, “Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the waters.” 
He said, “Come!” Peter Rock stepped down from the boat, and walked on the waters to come to Yeshua Salvation. 
But when he saw that the wind was strong, he was afraid, and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, “Lord, save me!” 
Immediately Yeshua Salvation stretched out his hand, took hold of him, and said to him, “You of little trusting faith, why did you doubt?” 
When they got up into the boat, the wind ceased. 
Those who were in the boat came and worshiped him, saying, “You are truly the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·!” 
When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret. 
When the people of that place recognized him, they sent into all that surrounding region, and brought to him all who were sick; 
and they begged him that they might just touch the fringe of his garment. As many as touched it were made whole. 
