Matthew [Gift of Yah].
Chapter 27.
Now early in the morning (Nissan 14), all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Yeshua Salvation to put him to death: 
and they bound him, and led him away, and delivered him up to Pontius Pilate Armed with javelin, the governor. 
Then Judas Praised, who betrayed him, when he saw that Yeshua Salvation was condemned, felt remorse, and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, 
saying, “I have sinned in that I betrayed innocent blood.” But they said, “What is that to us? You see to it.” 
He threw down the pieces of silver in the sanctuary, and departed. He went away and hanged himself. 
The chief priests took the pieces of silver, and said, “It’s not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is the price of blood.” 
They took counsel, and bought the potter’s field with them, to bury strangers in. 
Therefore that field was called “The Field of Blood” to this day. 
Then that which was spoken through Jeremiah Yah lifts up the prophet was fulfilled, saying, “They took the thirty pieces of silver, which was the price the people of Israel God prevails had agreed to pay him, 
and used them to buy the potter’s field just as MarYah Master Yahweh commanded me.” 
Now Yeshua Salvation stood before the governor: and the governor asked him, saying, “Are you the King of the Jews Praisers?” Yeshua Salvation said to him, “So you say.” 
When he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. 
Then Pilate Armed with javelin said to him, “Don’t you hear how many things they testify against you?” 
He gave him no answer, not even one word, so that the governor marveled greatly. 
Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release to the multitude one prisoner, whom they desired. 
They had then a notable prisoner, called Bar-Abba Son Father. 
When therefore they were gathered together, Pilate Armed with javelin said to them, “Whom do you want me to release to you? Bar-Abba Son Father, or Yeshua Salvation, who is called Messiah Anointed one?” 
For he knew that because of envy they had delivered him up. 
While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, “Have nothing to do with that upright man, for I have suffered many things today in a dream because of him.” 
Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes to ask for Bar-Abba Son Father, and destroy Yeshua Salvation. 
But the governor answered them, “Which of the two do you want me to release to you?” They said, “Bar-Abba Son Father!” 
Pilate Armed with javelin said to them, “What then shall I do to Yeshua Salvation, who is called Messiah Anointed one?” They all said to him, “Put him to death on the stake!” 
But the governor said, “Why? What evil has he done?” But they cried out exceedingly, saying, “Death on the stake!” 
So when Pilate Armed with javelin saw that nothing was being gained, but rather that a disturbance was starting, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, “I am innocent of the blood of this upright person. You see to it.” 
All the people answered, “May his blood be on us, and on our children!” 
Then he released to them Bar-Abba Son Father, but Yeshua Salvation he flogged and delivered to be nailed to the execution-stake. 
Then the governor’s soldiers took Yeshua Salvation into the Praetorium, and gathered the whole garrison together against him. 
They stripped him, and put a scarlet robe on him. 
They braided a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand; and they knelt down before him, and mocked him, saying, “Hail, King of the Jews Praisers!” 
They spat on him, and took the reed and struck him on the head. 
When they had mocked him, they took the robe off of him, and put his clothes on him, and led him away to crucify him. 
As they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simeon Hearing by name, and they compelled him to go with them, that he might carry his execution-stake. 
When they came to a place called “Golgotha,” that means, “The place of a skull,” 
they gave him sour wine to drink mixed with gall. When he had tasted it, he would not drink. 
When they had nailed him to the stake, they divided his clothing among them, casting lots, 
and they sat and watched him there. 
They set up over his head the accusation against him written, “This Is Yeshua Salvation, The King of The Jews Praisers .” 
Then there were two robbers placed on execution-stakes with him, one on his right hand and one on the left . 
Those who passed by blasphemed him, shaking their heads, 
and saying, “You who destroy the temple, and build it in three days, save yourself! If you are the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·, come down from the execution-stake!” 
Likewise the chief priests also mocking, with the Torah-Teachers, the Pharisees Separated, and the elders, said, 
“He saved others, but he can’t save himself. If he is the Melek Isra'el King of God prevails, let him come down from the execution-stake now, and we will believe in him. 
He trusts in God. Let God deliver him now, if he wants him; for he said, ‘I am the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·.’” 
The robbers also who were placed on execution-stakes with him cast on him the same reproach. 
Now from noon until three o'clock there was darkness over all the land. 
About three o'clock in the afternoon, Yeshua Salvation cried with a loud voice, saying, “Eli, Eli, lima sabachthani?” That is, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?” 
Some of them who stood there, when they heard it, said, “This man is calling Elijah My God Yah.” 
Immediately one of them ran, and took a sponge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink. 
The rest said, “Let him be. Let’s see whether Elijah My God Yah comes to save him.” 
Yeshua Salvation cried again with a loud voice, and yielded up his spirit. 
Behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from the top to the bottom. The earth quaked and the rocks were split. 
The tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised; 
and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection, they entered into the holy city and appeared to many. 
Now the centurion, and those who were with him watching Yeshua Salvation, when they saw the earthquake, and the things that were done, feared exceedingly, saying, “Truly this was the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·.” 
Many women were there watching from afar, who had followed Yeshua Salvation from Galilee District, Circuit, serving him. 
Among them were Mary of Magdala Rebellion of City tower, Mary Rebellion the mother of James Surplanter and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee Bestowed by Yah. 
When evening had come, a rich man from Arimathaea, named Joseph May he add, who himself was also Yeshua Salvation's disciple came. 
This man went to Pilate Armed with javelin, and asked for Yeshua Salvation’s body (Nissan 14). Then Pilate Armed with javelin commanded the body to be given up. 
Joseph May he add took the body, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, 
and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut out in the rock, and he rolled a great stone to the door of the tomb, and departed. 
Mary of Magdala Rebellion of City tower was there, and the other Mary Rebellion, sitting opposite the tomb. 
Now on the next day, which was the day after the Preparation Day (Nissan 15), the chief priests and the Pharisees Separated were gathered together to Pilate Armed with javelin, 
saying, “Sir, we remember what that deceiver said while he was still alive: ‘After three days I will rise again.’ 
Command therefore that the tomb be made secure until the third day, lest perhaps his disciples come at night and steal him away, and tell the people, ‘He is risen from the dead;’ and the last deception will be worse than the first.” 
Pilate Armed with javelin said to them, “You have a guard. Go, make it as secure as you can.” 
So they went with the guard and made the tomb secure, sealing the stone. 
