Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 33.
This is the blessing that Moses Drawn out the man of God blessed the children of Israel God prevails before his death. 
He said, “Adonai came from Sinai Thorn, and rose from Seir to them. He shone from Mount Paran. He came from the ten thousands of holy ones. At his right hand was a fiery law for them. 
Yes, he choveiv ·hides in bosom, loves· the people. All his saints are in your hand. They sat down at your feet. Each receives your words. 
The Torah ·Teaching· Moses Drawn out enjoined us, an inheritance for the assembly of Jacob Supplanter. 
He was king in Jeshurun Upright one, when the heads of the people were gathered, all the tribes of Israel God prevails together. 
“Let Reuben See, a son! live, and not die; Nor let his men be few.” 
This is for Judah Praised. He said, “Sh'ma ·Hear obey·, Adonai , the voice of Judah Praised. Bring him in to his people. With his hands he contended for himself. You shall be a help against his adversaries.” (2) 
About Levi United with he said, “Your Thummim ·Perfections· and your 'Urim ·Lights· are with your pious one, whom you proved at Massah Testing, with whom you contended at the waters of Meribah Quarreling. 
He said of his father, and of his mother, ‘I have not seen him.’ He didn’t acknowledge his brothers, nor did he know his own children; for they have observed your word, and keep your covenant. 
They shall teach Jacob Supplanter your judgments, and Israel God prevails your Torah ·Teaching·. They shall put incense before you, and whole burnt offering on your altar. 
Adonai , bless his skills. Accept the work of his hands. Strike through the hips of those who rise up against him, of those who hate him, that they not rise again.” 
About Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south he said, “The Yadid ·Beloved· of Adonai will dwell in safety by him. He covers him all day long. He dwells between his shoulders.” (3) 
About Joseph May he add he said, “His land is blessed by Adonai , for the precious things of the heavens, for the dew, for the deep that couches beneath, 
for the precious things of the fruits of the sun, for the precious things that the moon can yield, 
for the best things of the ancient mountains, for the precious things of the everlasting hills, 
for the precious things of the earth and its fullness, the good will of him who lived in the bush. Let this come on the head of Joseph May he add, on the crown of the head of him who was separated from his brothers. 
The firstborn of his herd, majesty is his. His horns are the horns of the wild ox. With them he will push all the peoples, to the ends of the earth. They are the ten thousands of Ephraim Fruit. They are the thousands of Manasseh Causing to forget.” (4) 
About Zebulun Living together he said, “Rejoice, Zebulun Living together, in your going out; and Issachar Hire, Reward, in your tents. 
They will call the peoples to the mountain. There they will offer sacrifices of righteousness, for they will draw out the abundance of the seas, the hidden treasures of the sand.” 
About Gad Good fortune he said, “He who enlarges Gad Good fortune is blessed. He dwells as a lioness, and tears the arm, yes, the crown of the head. 
He provided the first part for himself, for the lawgiver’s portion reserved was reserved for him. He came with the heads of the people. He executed the righteousness of Adonai , His judgments with Israel God prevails.” (5) 
About Dan He judged he said, “Dan He judged is a lion’s cub that leaps out of Bashan.” 
About Naphtali My wrestling he said, “Naphtali My wrestling, satisfied with favor, full of Adonai ’s blessing, Possess the west and the south.” 
About Asher Happy he said, “Asher Happy is blessed with children. Let him be acceptable to his brothers. Let him dip his foot in oil. 
Your bars will be iron and bronze. As your days, so your strength will be. 
“There is no one like God, Jeshurun Upright one, who rides on the heavens for your help, in his excellency on the skies. (6) 
The eternal God is your dwelling place. Underneath are the everlasting arms. He divorce and cast away the enemy from before you, and said, ‘Destroy!’ 
Israel God prevails dwells in safety; the fountain of Jacob Supplanter alone, In a land of grain and new wine. Yes, his heavens drop down dew. 
You are happy, Israel God prevails! Who is like you, a people saved by Adonai , the shield of your help, the sword of your excellency? Your enemies will submit themselves to you. You will tread on their high places.” 
