Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 61.
The Ruach Yahweh Spirit of He sustains breathing is on me; because Adonai has anointed me to preach good news to the poor and humble. He has sent me to heal the broken hearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, to let out into the light those bound in the dark, and to restore the crushed with forgiveness; 
to proclaim the year of Adonai ’s favor, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all who mourn; 
to provide for those who mourn in Zion Mountain ridge, Marking, to give to them a garland for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of tehilah ·praise song· for the spirit of heaviness; that they may be called trees of righteousness, the planting of Adonai , that he may be glorified. 
They will rebuild the old ruins. They will raise up the places long devastated. They will repair the ruined cities, that have been devastated for many generations. 
Strangers will stand and feed your flocks, and foreigners will work your fields and your vineyards. 
But you will be called Adonai ’s priests. Men will call you the servants of our God. You will eat the wealth of the nations, and you will boast in their kavod ·weighty glory·. 
Instead of your shame you will have double. Instead of dishonor, they will rejoice in their portion. Therefore in their land, they will possess double. Everlasting joy will be to them. 
“For I, Adonai , 'ahav ·affectionately love· mishpat ·justice·. I hate robbery and iniquity. I will give them their reward in truth, and I will make an everlasting covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties· with them. 
Their offspring will be known among the nations, and their offspring among the peoples. All who see them will acknowledge them, that they are the offspring which Adonai has blessed.” 
I will greatly rejoice in Adonai ! My soul will be joyful in my God; for he has clothed me with the garments of yesha' ·salvation·. He has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decks himself with a garland, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels. 
For as the earth produces its bud, and as the garden causes the things that are sown in it to spring up; so the Lord Adonai will cause righteousness and tehilah ·praise song· to spring up before all the nations. 
