Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 60.
“Arise, shine; for your light has come, and Adonai ’s kavod ·weighty glory· has risen on you. 
For, behold, darkness will cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples; but Adonai will arise on you, and his kavod ·weighty glory· shall be seen on you. 
Nations will come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising. 
“Lift up your eyes all around, and see: they all gather themselves together. They come to you. Your sons will come from far away, and your daughters will be carried in arms. 
Then you shall see and be radiant, and your heart will thrill and be enlarged; because the abundance of the sea will be turned to you. The wealth of the nations will come to you. 
A multitude of camels will cover you, the dromedaries of Midian Strife and Ephah. All from Sheba will come. They will bring gold and frankincense, and will proclaim the tehilahot ·praise songs· of Adonai . 
All the flocks of Kedar will be gathered together to you. The rams of Nebaioth will serve you. They will be accepted as offerings on my altar; and I will beautify my glorious house. 
“Who are these who fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows? 
Surely the islands will wait for me, and the ships of Tarshish first, to bring your sons from far, their silver and their gold with them, for the name of Adonai your God, and for the haKadosh Isra'el the Holy One of God prevails, because he has glorified you. 
“Foreigners will build up your walls, and their kings will serve you: for in my wrath I struck you, but in my favor have I had racham ·compassionate merciful love· on you. 
Your gates also shall be open continually; they shall not be shut day nor night; that men may bring to you the wealth of the nations, and their kings led captive. 
For that nation and kingdom that will not serve you shall perish; yes, those nations shall be utterly wasted. 
“The kavod ·weighty glory· of Lebanon shall come to you, the cypress tree, the pine, and the box tree together, to beautify the place of my sanctuary; and I will make the place of my feet glorious. 
The sons of those who afflicted you will come bowing to you; and all those who despised you will hawa ·bow low, prostrate· themselves down at the soles of your feet. They will call you Adonai ’s City, The Zion Mountain ridge, Marking of the haKadosh Isra'el the Holy One of God prevails. 
“Whereas you have been forsaken and hated, so that no one passed through you, I will make you an eternal excellency, a joy of many generations. 
You will also drink the milk of the nations, and will nurse from royal breasts. Then you will know that I, Adonai , am the One who saves you, your Redeemer, the 'Avir Ya'akov Mighty One of Supplanter. 
For bronze I will bring gold; for iron I will bring silver; for wood, bronze, and for stones, iron. I will also make peace your governor, and righteousness your ruler. 
Violence shall no more be sh'ma ·heard obeyed· in your land, nor desolation or destruction within your borders; but you will call your walls Yishu'ah ·Salvation·, and your gates Tehilah ·Praise song·. 
The sun will be no more your light by day; nor will the brightness of the moon give light to you, but Adonai will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory. 
Your sun will not go down any more, nor will your moon withdraw itself; for Adonai will be your everlasting light, and the days of your mourning will end. 
Then your people will all be righteous. They will inherit the land forever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be glorified. 
The little one will become a thousand, and the small one a strong nation. I, Adonai , will do this quickly in its time.” 
