Matthew [Gift of Yah].
Chapter 17.
After six days, Yeshua Salvation took with him Peter Rock, James Surplanter, and John Yah is gracious his brother, and brought them up into a high mountain by themselves. 
He was transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun, and his garments became as white as the light. 
Behold, Moses Drawn out and Elijah My God Yah appeared to them talking with him. 
Peter Rock answered, and said to Yeshua Salvation, “Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you want, let’s make three tents here: one for you, one for Moses Drawn out, and one for Elijah My God Yah.” 
While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them. Behold, a voice came out of the cloud, saying, “This is my agapetos ·beloved, esteemed· Son, in whom I am well pleased. Listen to him.” 
When the disciples heard it, they fell on their faces, and were very afraid. 
Yeshua Salvation came and touched them and said, “Get up, and don’t be afraid.” 
Lifting up their eyes, they saw no one, except Yeshua Salvation alone. 
As they were coming down from the mountain, Yeshua Salvation enjoined them, saying, “Don’t tell anyone what you saw, until the Son of Man has risen from the dead.” 
His disciples asked him, saying, “Then why do the Torah-Teachers say that Elijah My God Yah must come first?” 
Yeshua Salvation answered them, “Elijah My God Yah indeed comes first, and will restore all things, 
but I tell you that Elijah My God Yah has come already, and they didn’t recognize him, but did to him whatever they wanted to. Even so the Son of Man will also suffer by them.” 
Then the disciples understood that he spoke to them of John Yah is gracious the Immerser. 
When they came to the multitude, a man came to him, kneeling down to him, and saying, 
“Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is epileptic, and suffers grievously; for he often falls into the fire, and often into the water. 
So I brought him to your disciples, and they could not cure him.” 
Yeshua Salvation answered, “Faithless and perverse generation! How long will I be with you? How long will I bear with you? Bring him here to me.” 
Yeshua Salvation rebuked him, the demon went out of him, and the boy was cured from that hour. 
Then the disciples came to Yeshua Salvation privately, and said, “Why were we not able to cast it out?” 
He said to them, “Because of your unbelief. For most certainly I tell you, if you have trusting faith as a grain of mustard seed, you will tell this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move; and nothing will be impossible for you. 
But this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting.” 
While they were staying in Galilee District, Circuit, Yeshua Salvation said to them, “The Son of Man is about to be delivered up into the hands of men, 
and they will kill him, and the third day he will be raised up.” They were exceedingly sorry. 
When they had come to Capernaum Village-Comfort, Village-Compassion, those who collected the half-shekel coin came to Peter Rock, and said, “Does not your teacher pay the Temple Tax?” 
He said, “Yes.” When he came into the house, Yeshua Salvation anticipated him, saying, “What do you think, Simeon Hearing? From whom do the kings of the earth receive toll or tribute? From their children, or from strangers?” 
Peter Rock said to him, “From strangers.” Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Therefore the children are exempt. 
But, lest we cause them to stumble, go to the sea, cast a hook, and take up the first fish that comes up. When you have opened its mouth, you will find a shekel 0.4 oz; 11.34 kg. Take that, and give it to them for me and you.” 
