Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 19.
In the third month after the children of Israel God prevails had gone out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, on that same day they came into the wilderness of Sinai Thorn. 
When they had departed from Rephidim, and had come to the wilderness of Sinai Thorn, they encamped in the wilderness; and there Israel God prevails encamped before the mountain. 
Moses Drawn out went up to God, and Adonai called to him out of the mountain, saying, “This is what you shall tell the house of Jacob Supplanter, and tell the children of Israel God prevails: 
‘You have seen what I did to the Egyptians people from Abode of slavery, and how I bore you on eagles’ wings, and brought you to myself. 
Now therefore, if you will indeed sh'ma ·hear obey· my voice, and sh'ma ·hear obey· keep my covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties·, then you shall be my own segulah ·special treasure· from among all peoples; for all the earth is mine; 
and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests, and a holy nation.’ These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel God prevails.” (5) 
Moses Drawn out came and called for the elders of the people, and set before them all these words which Adonai enjoined him. 
All the people answered together, and said, “All that Adonai has spoken we will do.” Moses Drawn out reported the words of the people to Adonai . 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Behold, I come to you in a thick cloud, that the people may sh'ma ·hear obey· when I speak with you, and may also believe you forever.” Moses Drawn out told the words of the people to Adonai . 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Go to the people, and sanctify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their garments, 
and be ready against the third day; for on the third day Adonai will come down in the sight of all the people on Mount Sinai Thorn. 
You shall set bounds to the people all around, saying, ‘Be careful that you don’t go up onto the mountain, or touch its border. Whoever touches the mountain shall be surely put to death. 
No hand shall touch him, but he shall surely be stoned or shot through; whether it is animal or man, he shall not live.’ When the trumpet sounds long, they shall come up to the mountain.” (S:6) 
Moses Drawn out went down from the mountain to the people, and sanctified the people; and they washed their clothes. 
He said to the people, “Be ready by the third day. Don’t have sexual relations with a woman.” 
On the third day, when it was morning, there were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud on the mountain, and the sound of an exceedingly loud shofar ·ram horn·; and all the people who were in the camp trembled. 
Moses Drawn out led the people out of the camp to meet God; and they stood at the lower part of the mountain. 
All of Mount Sinai Thorn smoked, because Adonai descended on it in fire; and its smoke ascended like the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain quaked greatly. 
When the sound of the shofar ·ram horn· grew louder and louder, Moses Drawn out spoke, and God answered him by a voice. (A:6, S:7) 
Adonai came down on Mount Sinai Thorn, to the top of the mountain. Adonai called Moses Drawn out to the top of the mountain, and Moses Drawn out went up. 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Go down, warn the people, lest they break through to Adonai to gaze, and many of them perish. 
Let the priests also, who come near to Adonai , sanctify themselves, lest Adonai break out on them.” 
Moses Drawn out said to Adonai , “The people can’t come up to Mount Sinai Thorn, for you warned us, saying, ‘Set bounds around the mountain, and sanctify it.’” 
Adonai said to him, “Go down! You shall bring Aaron Light-bringer up with you, but don’t let the priests and the people break through to come up to Adonai , lest he break out against them.” 
So Moses Drawn out went down to the people, and told them. 
