Psalms [Praises].
Chapter 106.
Praise Adonai ! Yadah ·Extend hands in thankful praise· to Adonai , for he is good, for his cheshed ·loving-kindness· endures forever. 
Who can utter the mighty acts of Adonai , or sh'ma ·hear obey, fully declare· all his praise? 
Blessed are those who keep mishpat ·justice·. Blessed is one who does what is right at all times. 
Remember me, Adonai , with the favor that you show to your people. Visit me with your yishu'ah ·salvation·, 
that I may see the prosperity of your chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory with your inheritance. 
We have sinned with our fathers. We have committed iniquity. We have done wickedly. 
Our fathers didn’t understand your wonders in Egypt Abode of slavery. They didn’t remember the multitude of your cheshed ·loving-kindnesses·, but were rebellious at the sea, even at the Sea of Suf Reed Sea. 
Nevertheless he saved them for his name’s sake, that he might make his mighty power known. 
He rebuked the Sea of Suf Reed Sea also, and it was dried up; so he led them through the depths, as through a desert. 
He saved them from the hand of him who hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. 
The waters covered their adversaries. There was not one of them left. 
Then they believed his words. They sang his tehilah ·praise song·. 
They soon forgot his works. They didn’t wait for his counsel, 
but gave in to craving in the desert, and tested God in the wasteland. 
He gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul. 
They envied Moses Drawn out also in the camp, and Aaron Light-bringer, Adonai ’s saint. 
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram. 
A fire was kindled in their company. The flame burned up the wicked. 
They made a calf in Horeb Desert, and hawa ·bowed low, prostrated· worshiped a molten image. 
Thus they exchanged their kavod ·weighty glory· for an image of a bull that eats grass. 
They forgot God, their source of salvation, who had done great things in Egypt Abode of slavery, 
Wondrous works in the land of Ham Hot, Intensity, Passion, and awesome things by the Sea of Suf Reed Sea. 
Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had Moses Drawn out, his chosen, not stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, so that he would not destroy them. 
Yes, they despised the pleasant land. They didn’t believe his word, 
but murmured in their tents, and didn’t sh'ma ·hear obey· Adonai ’s voice. 
Therefore he swore to them that he would overthrow them in the wilderness, 
that he would overthrow their offspring among the nations, and scatter them in the lands. 
They joined themselves also to Baal Peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead. 
Thus they provoked him to anger with their deeds. The plague broke in on them. 
Then Pinchas Bronze skin stood up, and executed judgment, so the plague was stopped. 
That was credited to him for righteousness, for all generations to come. 
They angered him also at the waters of Meribah Quarreling, so that Moses Drawn out was troubled for their sakes; 
because they were rebellious against his spirit, he spoke rashly with his lips. 
They didn’t destroy the peoples, as Adonai ordered them to do, 
but mixed themselves with the nations, and learned their works. 
They abad ·served· their idols, which became a snare to them. 
Yes, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons. 
They shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan Humbled. The land was polluted with blood. 
Thus were they defiled with their works, and prostituted themselves in their deeds. 
Therefore Adonai burned with anger against his people. He abhorred his inheritance. 
He gave them into the hand of the nations. Those who hated them ruled over them. 
Their enemies also oppressed them. They were brought into subjection under their hand. 
Many times he delivered them, but they were rebellious in their counsel, and were brought low in their iniquity. 
Nevertheless he regarded their distress, when he sh'ma ·heard obeyed· their cry. 
He remembered for them his covenant, and relented according to the multitude of his cheshed ·loving-kindnesses·. 
He made them also to be shown racham ·compassionate love· by all those who carried them captive. 
Save us, Adonai , our God, gather us from among the nations, yadah ·extend hands in thankful praise· to your holy name, to triumph in your tehilah ·praise song·! 
Blessed be Adonai, the God of Israel God prevails, from everlasting even to everlasting! Let all the people say, “Amen ·So be it·.” Halleluyah ·praise Yah·! 
