Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 4.
The man knew Eve Life his wife. She conceived, and gave birth to Cain Acquisition, and said, “I have gotten a man with Adonai ’s help.” 
Again she gave birth, to Cain Acquisition’s brother Abel Vanity, Mourning. Abel Vanity, Mourning was a keeper of sheep, but Cain Acquisition was a tiller of the ground. 
As time passed, Cain Acquisition brought an offering to Adonai from the fruit of the ground. 
Abel Vanity, Mourning also brought some of the firstborn of his flock and of its fat. Adonai respected Abel Vanity, Mourning and his offering, 
but he didn’t respect Cain Acquisition and his offering. Cain Acquisition was very angry, and the expression on his face fell. 
Adonai said to Cain Acquisition, “Why are you angry? Why has the expression of your face fallen? 
If you do well, won’t it be lifted up? If you don’t do well, sin crouches at the door. Its desire is for you, but you are to rule over it.” 
Cain Acquisition said to Abel Vanity, Mourning, his brother, “Let’s go into the field.” While they were in the field, Cain Acquisition rose up against Abel Vanity, Mourning, his brother, and murdered him. 
Adonai said to Cain Acquisition, “Where is Abel Vanity, Mourning, your brother?” He said, “I don’t know. Am I my brother’s keeper?” 
Adonai said, “What have you done? The voice of your brother’s blood cries to me from the ground. 
Now you are cursed because of the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother’s blood from your hand. 
From now on, when you till the ground, it won’t yield its strength to you. You will be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth.” 
Cain Acquisition said to Adonai , “My punishment is greater than I can bear. 
Behold, you have divorced and driven me out today from the surface of the ground. I will be hidden from your face, and I will be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth. Whoever finds me will kill me.” 
Adonai said to him, “Therefore whoever slays Cain Acquisition, vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold.” Adonai appointed a sign for Cain Acquisition, so that anyone finding him would not strike him. 
Cain Acquisition left Adonai ’s presence, and lived in the land of Nod, east of Eden Delight. 
Cain Acquisition knew his wife. She conceived, and gave birth to Enoch. He built a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch. 
To Enoch was born Irad. Irad became the father of Mehujael. Mehujael became the father of Methushael. Methushael became the father of Lamech. (S:5) 
Lamech took two wives: the name of the first one was Adah, and the name of the second one was Zillah. 
Adah gave birth to Jabal, who was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. 
His brother’s name was Jubal, who was the father of all who handle the harp and pipe. 
Zillah also gave birth to Tubal Cain Acquisition, the forger of every cutting instrument of bronze and iron. Tubal Cain Acquisition’s sister was Naamah. 
Lamech said to his wives, “Adah and Zillah, sh'ma ·hear obey· my voice. You wives of Lamech, listen to my speech, for I have slain a man for wounding me, a young man for bruising me. 
If Cain Acquisition will be avenged seven times, truly Lamech seventy-seven times.” 
Adam Human, Red earth knew his wife again. She gave birth to a son, and named him Seth Appointed, saying, “for God has given me another child instead of Abel Vanity, Mourning, for Cain Acquisition killed him.” 
A son was also born to Seth Appointed, and he named him Enosh. At that time men began to call on Adonai ’s name. 
