Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 16.
Now Sarai Mockery, Avram Exalted father’s wife, bore him no children. She had a servant, an Egyptian person from Abode of slavery, whose name was Hagar Flight. 
Sarai Mockery said to Avram Exalted father, “See now, Adonai has restrained me from bearing. Please go in to my servant. It may be that I will obtain children by her.” Avram Exalted father sh'ma ·hear obey· the voice of Sarai Mockery. 
Sarai Mockery, Avram Exalted father’s wife, took Hagar Flight the Egyptian person from Abode of slavery, her servant, after Avram Exalted father had lived ten years in the land of Canaan Humbled, and gave her to Avram Exalted father her husband to be his wife. 
He went in to Hagar Flight, and she conceived. When she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes. 
Sarai Mockery said to Avram Exalted father, “This wrong is your fault. I gave my servant into your bosom, and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes. Adonai judge between me and you.” 
But Avram Exalted father said to Sarai Mockery, “Behold, your maid is in your hand. Do to her whatever is good in your eyes.” Sarai Mockery dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her face. 
Ha mal'ak Yahweh The Angel of He sustains breathing found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain on the way to Shur. 
He said, “Hagar Flight, Sarai Mockery’s servant, where did you come from? Where are you going?” She said, “I am fleeing from the face of my mistress Sarai Mockery.” 
Ha mal'ak Yahweh The Angel of He sustains breathing said to her, “Teshuvah ·Completely return· to your mistress, and submit yourself under her hands.” 
Ha mal'ak Yahweh The Angel of He sustains breathing said to her, “I will greatly multiply your offspring, that they will not be counted for multitude.” 
Ha mal'ak Yahweh The Angel of He sustains breathing said to her, “Behold, you are with child, and will bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael Pays attention God, because Adonai has sh'ma ·heard obeyed· your affliction. 
He will be like a wild donkey among men. His hand will be against every man, and every man’s hand against him. He will live opposite all of his brothers.” 
She called the name of Adonai who spoke to her, “You are El Ro'i Ra'ah God who sees me / God who provides,” for she said, “Have I even stayed alive after seeing him?” 
Therefore the well was called Beer Lahai Roi Well of the one who lives and sees. Behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered. 
Hagar Flight bore a son for Avram Exalted father. Avram Exalted father called the name of his son, whom Hagar Flight bore, Ishmael Pays attention God. 
Avram Exalted father was eighty-six years old when Hagar Flight bore Ishmael Pays attention God to Avram Exalted father. 
