Psalms [Praises].
Chapter 72.
God, give your mishpat ·justice· to the King Messiah Anointed one; and your righteousness to the Son of David Beloved the King. 
He will judge your people with righteousness, and your poor afflicted ones with right judgments. 
The mountains shall bring peace and prosperity to the people. The hills bring the fruit of righteousness. 
He will judge the poor of the people. He will save the children of the needy, and will break the oppressor in pieces. 
They shall fear you, the King Messiah Anointed one, while the sun endures; and as long as the moon, throughout all generations. 
He will come down like rain on the cut grass of the earth, as showers that water the earth. 
In his days, the upright shall be multiplied, and abundance of peace, until the moon is no more. 
He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, from the River to the ends of the earth. 
Those who dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him. His enemies shall lick the dust. 
The kings of Tarshish and of the islands will bring tribute. The kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts. 
Yes, all kings shall hawa ·bow low, prostrate· before him. All nations shall serve him. 
For he will deliver the needy when he cries; the poor, who has no helper. 
He will have pity on the poor and needy. He will save the souls of the needy. 
He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence. Their blood will be precious in his sight. 
They shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba. Men shall pray for him continually. They shall bless him all day long. 
There shall be an abundance of corn throughout the land. Its fruit sways like Lebanon. Let it flourish, thriving like the grass of the field outside the city. 
His name endures forever. His name existed before the creation of the sun. Men shall be blessed by him. All nations will call him blessed. 
Praise be to Adonai God, the God of Israel God prevails, who alone does marvelous deeds. 
Blessed be his kavod ·weighty glorious· name forever! Let the whole earth be filled with his kavod ·weighty glory·! Amen v'Amen ·So be it and So be it·. 
This ends the prayers by David Beloved, the son of Jesse My husband. 
