Mark [Hammer].
Chapter 15.
Immediately in the morning the chief priests, with the elders and Torah-Teachers, and the whole council, held a consultation, and bound Yeshua Salvation, and carried him away, and delivered him up to Pilate Armed with javelin. 
Pilate Armed with javelin asked him, “Are you the King of the Jews Praisers?” He answered, “So you say.” 
The chief priests accused him of many things. 
Pilate Armed with javelin again asked him, “Have you no answer? See how many things they testify against you!” 
But Yeshua Salvation made no further answer, so that Pilate Armed with javelin marveled. 
Now at the feast he used to release to them one prisoner, whom they asked of him. 
There was one called Bar-Abba Son Father, bound with his fellow insurgents, men who in the insurrection had committed murder. 
The multitude, crying aloud, began to ask him to do as he always did for them. 
Pilate Armed with javelin answered them, saying, “Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews Praisers?” 
For he perceived that for envy the chief priests had delivered him up. 
But the chief priests stirred up the multitude, that he should release Bar-Abba Son Father to them instead. 
Pilate Armed with javelin again asked them, “What then should I do to him whom you call the King of the Jews Praisers?” 
They cried out again, “Crucify him!” 
Pilate Armed with javelin said to them, “Why, what evil has he done?” But they cried out exceedingly, “Crucify him!” 
Pilate Armed with javelin, wishing to please the multitude, released Bar-Abba Son Father to them, and handed over Yeshua Salvation, when he had flogged him, to be nailed to the execution-stake. 
The soldiers led him away within the court, which is the Praetorium; and they called together the whole cohort. 
They clothed him with purple, and weaving a crown of thorns, they put it on him. 
They began to salute him, “Hail, King of the Jews Praisers!” 
They struck his head with a reed, and spat on him, and bowing their knees, did homage to him. 
When they had mocked him, they took the purple off of him, and put his own garments on him. They led him out to crucify him. 
They compelled one passing by, coming from the country, Simeon Hearing of Cyrene, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to go with them, that he might bear his execution-stake. 
They brought him to the place called Golgotha, which means, “The place of a skull.” 
They offered him wine mixed with myrrh to drink, but he didn’t take it. 
Crucifying him, they parted his garments among them, casting lots on them, what each should take. 
It was nine in the morning when they nailed him to the stake. 
The superscription of his accusation was written over him, “The King of the Jews Praisers .” 
With him they executed on the stake two robbers; one on his right hand, and one on his left. 
The Scripture was fulfilled, which says, “He was counted with transgressors.” 
Those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads, and saying, “Ha! You who destroy the temple, and build it in three days, 
save yourself, and come down from the execution-stake!” 
Likewise, also the chief priests mocking among themselves with the Torah-Teachers said, “He saved others. He can’t save himself. 
Let the Messiah Anointed one, the Melek Isra'el King of God prevails, now come down from the execution-stake, that we may see and believe him.” Those who were placed on execution-stakes with him also insulted him. 
At noon, there was darkness over the whole land until three o'clock in the afternoon. 
At three, Yeshua Salvation cried with a loud voice, saying, “Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?” which means, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?” 
Some of those who stood by, when they heard it, said, “Behold, he is calling Elijah My God Yah.” 
One ran, and filling a sponge full of vinegar, put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink, saying, “Let him be. Let’s see whether Elijah My God Yah comes to take him down.” 
Yeshua Salvation cried out with a loud voice, and gave up the spirit. 
The veil of the temple was torn in two from the top to the bottom. 
When the centurion, who stood by opposite him, saw that he cried out like this and breathed his last, he said, “Truly this man was the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·!” 
There were also women watching from afar, among whom were both Mary of Magdala Rebellion of City tower, and Mary Rebellion the mother of James Surplanter the less and of Joses, and Salome; 
who, when he was in Galilee District, Circuit, followed him, and served him; and many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem City of peace. 
When evening had now come, because it was the Preparation Day (Nissan 14), that is, the day before the festival Sabbath ·To cease·, 
Joseph May he add of Arimathaea May he add of Lofty place, a prominent council member who also himself was looking for God’s Kingdom, came. He boldly went in to Pilate Armed with javelin, and asked for Yeshua Salvation's body. 
Pilate Armed with javelin marveled if he were already dead; and summoning the centurion, he asked him whether he had been dead long. 
When he found out from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph May he add. 
He bought a linen cloth, and taking him down, wound him in the linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb which had been cut out of a rock. He rolled a stone against the door of the tomb. 
Mary of Magdala Rebellion of City tower and Mary Rebellion, the mother of Joses, saw where he was laid. 
