Matthew [Gift of Yah].
Chapter 2.
Now when Yeshua Salvation was born in Bethlehem House of Bread of Judea in the days of King Herod Heroic, behold, Magi Conjurer (Persian King makers, Astrologers) from the east came to Jerusalem City of peace, saying, 
“Where is he who is born King of the Jews Praisers? For we saw his star in the east, and have come to worship him.” 
When King Herod Heroic heard it, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem City of peace with him. 
Gathering together all the chief priests and Torah-Teachers of the people, he asked them where the Messiah Anointed one would be born. 
They said to him, “In Bethlehem House of Bread of Judea Praise, for this is written through the prophet, 
‘You Bethlehem House of Bread, land of Judah Praised, are in no way least among the princes of Judah Praised: for out of you shall come a governor, who shall shepherd my people, Israel God prevails.’” 
Then Herod Heroic secretly called the Magi Conjurer (Persian King makers, Astrologers), and learned from them exactly what time the star appeared. 
He sent them to Bethlehem House of Bread, and said, “Go and search diligently for the young child. When you have found him, bring me word, so that I also may come and worship him.” 
They, having heard the king, went their way; and behold, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, until it came and stood over where the young child was. 
When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. 
They came into the house and saw the young child with Mary Rebellion, his mother, and they fell down and worshiped him. Opening their treasures, they offered to him gifts: gold, frankincense, and myrrh. 
Being warned in a dream that they should not return to Herod Heroic, they went back to their own country another route. 
Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of MarYah Master Yahweh appeared to Joseph May he add in a dream, saying, “Arise and take the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt Abode of slavery, and stay there until I tell you, for Herod Heroic will seek the young child to destroy him.” 
He arose and took the young child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt Abode of slavery, 
and was there until the death of Herod Heroic; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by MarYah Master Yahweh through the prophet, saying, “Out of Egypt Abode of slavery I called my son.” 
Then Herod Heroic, when he saw that he was mocked by the Magi Conjurer (Persian King makers, Astrologers), was exceedingly angry, and sent out, and killed all the male children who were in Bethlehem House of Bread and in all the surrounding countryside, from two years old and under, according to the exact time which he had learned from the Magi Conjurer (Persian King makers, Astrologers). 
Then that which was spoken by Jeremiah Yah lifts up the prophet was fulfilled, saying, 
“A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, weeping and great mourning, Rachel Ewe sheep is weeping for her children; and she wouldn’t be comforted, because they are no more.” 
But when Herod Heroic was dead, behold, an angel of MarYah Master Yahweh appeared in a dream to Joseph May he add in Egypt Abode of slavery, saying, 
“Arise and take the young child and his mother, and go into the land of Israel God prevails, for those who sought the young child’s life are dead.” 
He arose and took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel God prevails. 
But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea Praise in the place of his father, Herod Heroic, he was afraid to go there. Being warned in a dream, he withdrew into the region of Galilee District, Circuit, 
and came and lived in a city called Nazareth Branch, Separated one; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the prophets: “He will be called a Nazarene person from Branch, Separated one.” 
