Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 2.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out and to Aaron Light-bringer, saying, 
“The children of Israel God prevails shall encamp every man by his own standard, with the banners of their fathers’ houses: at a distance from the Tent of Meeting shall they encamp around it.” 
Those who encamp on the east side toward the sunrise shall be of the standard of the camp of Judah Praised, according to their divisions: and the prince of the children of Judah Praised shall be Nahshon the son of Amminadab. 
His division, and those who were counted of them, were seventy-four thousand six hundred. 
Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Issachar Hire, Reward: and the prince of the children of Issachar Hire, Reward shall be Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
His division, and those who were counted of it, were fifty-four thousand four hundred. 
The tribe of Zebulun Living together: and the prince of the children of Zebulun Living together shall be Eliab the son of Helon. 
His division, and those who were counted of it, were fifty-seven thousand four hundred. 
All who were counted of the camp of Judah Praised were one hundred eighty-six thousand four hundred, according to their divisions. They shall set out first. 
“On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben See, a son! according to their divisions. The prince of the children of Reuben See, a son! shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
His division, and those who were counted of it, were forty-six thousand five hundred. 
“Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Simeon Hearing. The prince of the children of Simeon Hearing shall be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai My rock almighty. 
His division, and those who were counted of them, were fifty-nine thousand three hundred. 
“The tribe of Gad Good fortune: and the prince of the children of Gad Good fortune shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel. 
His division, and those who were counted of them, were forty-five thousand six hundred fifty. 
“All who were counted of the camp of Reuben See, a son! were one hundred fifty-one thousand four hundred fifty, according to their armies. They shall set out second. 
“Then the Tent of Meeting shall set out, with the camp of the Levites Descendants of United with in the middle of the camps. As they encamp, so shall they set out, every man in his place, by their standards. 
“On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim Fruit according to their divisions: and the prince of the children of Ephraim Fruit shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud. 
His division, and those who were counted of them, were forty thousand five hundred. 
“Next to him shall be the tribe of Manasseh Causing to forget: and the prince of the children of Manasseh Causing to forget shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. 
His division, and those who were counted of them, were thirty-two thousand two hundred. 
“The tribe of Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south: and the prince of the children of Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni. 
His army, and those who were counted of them, were thirty-five thousand four hundred. 
“All who were counted of the camp of Ephraim Fruit were one hundred eight thousand one hundred, according to their divisions. They shall set out third. 
“On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan He judged according to their divisions: and the prince of the children of Dan He judged shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. 
His division, and those who were counted of them, were sixty-two thousand seven hundred. 
“Those who encamp next to him shall be the tribe of Asher Happy: and the prince of the children of Asher Happy shall be Pagiel the son of Ochran. 
His division, and those who were counted of them, were forty-one thousand and five hundred. 
“The tribe of Naphtali My wrestling: and the prince of the children of Naphtali My wrestling shall be Ahira the son of Enan. 
His division, and those who were counted of them, were fifty-three thousand four hundred. 
“All who were counted of the camp of Dan He judged were one hundred fifty-seven thousand six hundred. They shall set out last by their standards.” 
These are those who were counted of the children of Israel God prevails by their fathers’ houses. All who were counted of the camps according to their armies were six hundred three thousand five hundred fifty. 
But the Levites Descendants of United with were not counted among the children of Israel God prevails; as Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out. 
Thus the children of Israel God prevails did. According to all that Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out, so they encamped by their standards, and so they set out, everyone by their families, according to their fathers’ houses. 
