Mark [Hammer].
Chapter 3.
He entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man there who had his hand withered. 
They watched him, whether he would heal him on the Sabbath ·To cease· day, that they might accuse him. 
He said to the man who had his hand withered, “Stand up.” 
He said to them, “Is it lawful on the Sabbath ·To cease· day to do good, or to do harm? To save a life, or to kill?” But they were silent . 
When he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved at the hardening of their hearts, he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He stretched it out, and his hand was restored as healthy as the other. 
The Pharisees Separated went out, and immediately conspired with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him. 
Yeshua Salvation withdrew to the sea with his disciples, and a great multitude followed him from Galilee District, Circuit, from Judea Praise, 
from Jerusalem City of peace, from Idumaea, beyond the Jordan Descender, and those from around Tyre and Sidon. A great multitude, hearing what great things he did, came to him. 
He spoke to his disciples that a little boat should stay near him because of the crowd, so that they would not press on him. 
For he had healed many, so that as many as had diseases pressed on him that they might touch him. 
The unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, “You are the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·!” 
He sternly warned them that they should not make him known. 
He went up into the mountain, and called to himself those whom he wanted, and they went to him. 
He appointed twelve, that they might be with him, and that he might send them out to preach, 
and to have authority to heal sicknesses and to cast out demons: 
Simeon Hearing, to whom he gave the name Peter Rock; 
James son of Zebedee Surplanter son of Yah Has Bestowed; John Yah is gracious, the brother of James Surplanter, and he called them Boanerges, which means, Sons of Thunder; 
Andrew Manly; Philip Loves horses; Bartholomew Son who suspends waters; Matthew Gift of Yah; Thomas Seeker of truth; James Surplanter, the son of Alphaeus Changing; Thaddaeus Child of heart; Simeon Hearing the Zealot Zealous follower; 
and Judas Iscariot Praised Dagger-man, who also betrayed him. He came into a house. 
The multitude came together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread. 
When his friends heard it, they went out to seize him: for they said, “He is insane.” 
The Torah-Teachers who came down from Jerusalem City of peace said, “He has Ba'al-Zibbul Lord of Flies,” and, “By the prince of the demons he casts out the demons.” 
He summoned them, and said to them in parables, “How can Satan Adversary cast out Satan Adversary? 
If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 
If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand. 
If Satan Adversary has risen up against himself, and is divided, he can’t stand, but has an end. 
But no one can enter into the house of the strong man to plunder, unless he first binds the strong man; and then he will plunder his house. 
Most certainly I tell you, all sins of the descendants of man will be forgiven, including their blasphemies with which they may blaspheme; 
but whoever may blaspheme against Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness never has forgiveness, but is subject to eternal condemnation.” 
Because they said, “He has an unclean spirit.” 
His mother and his brothers came, and standing outside, they sent to him, calling him. 
A multitude was sitting around him, and they told him, “Behold, your mother, your brothers, and your sisters are outside looking for you.” 
He answered them, “Who are my mother and my brothers?” 
Looking around at those who sat around him, he said, “Behold, my mother and my brothers! 
For whoever does the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother.” 
