Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 28.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Enjoin the children of Israel God prevails, and tell them, ‘See that you present my offering, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to me, in their due season.’ 
You shall tell them, ‘This is the offering made by fire which you shall offer to Adonai : male lambs a year old without defect, two day by day, for a continual burnt offering. 
You shall offer the one lamb in the morning, and you shall offer the other lamb at evening; 
with one tenth of an ephah an omer; 2.3 q; 2.2 L of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with the fourth part of a hin 2.6 qt; 1.2 L of beaten oil. 
It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in Mount Sinai Thorn for a pleasant aroma, an offering made by fire to Adonai . 
Its drink offering shall be the fourth part of a hin 2.6 qt; 1.2 L for the one lamb. You shall pour out a drink offering of strong drink to Adonai in the holy place. 
The other lamb you shall offer at evening. As the meal offering of the morning, and as its drink offering, you shall offer it, an offering made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Adonai . 
“‘On the Sabbath day, two male lambs a year old without defect, and one tenth of an ephah two omers; 4.6 q; 4.4 L of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with oil, and its drink offering: 
this is the burnt offering of every Sabbath ·To cease·, besides the continual burnt offering, and its drink offering. 
“‘In the beginnings of your months, you shall offer a burnt offering to Adonai : two young bulls, and one ram, seven male lambs a year old without defect; 
and three tenths of an ephah three omers; 6.9 q; 6.6 L of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with oil, for each bull; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal offering, mixed with oil, for the one ram; 
and one tenth part of fine flour mixed with oil for a meal offering to every lamb; for a burnt offering of a pleasant aroma, an offering made by fire to Adonai . 
Their drink offerings shall be half a hin 5.2 qt; 2.4 L of wine for a bull, and the third part of a hin 2.6 qt; 1.24 L of for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin 2.6 qt; 1.2 L for a lamb. This is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year. 
One male goat for a sin offering to Adonai ; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt offering, and its drink offering. (6) 
“‘In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is Adonai ’s Pesac ·Passover·. 
On the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast. Unleavened bread shall be eaten for seven days. 
In the first day shall be a holy convocation. You shall do no regular aboda ·service·; 
but you shall offer an offering made by fire, a burnt offering to Adonai : two young bulls, and one ram, and seven male lambs a year old; they shall be to you without defect; 
and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil. You shall offer three tenths for a bull, and two tenths for the ram. 
You shall offer one tenth for every lamb of the seven lambs; 
and one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you. 
You shall offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering. 
In this way you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Adonai . It shall be offered in addition to the continual burnt offering, and its drink offering. 
On the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no regular aboda ·service·. 
“‘Also in the day of the first fruits, when you offer a new meal offering to Adonai in your feast of Shavu'ot ·Weeks· / Pentacost ·Fifty·, you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no regular aboda ·service·; 
but you shall offer a burnt offering for a pleasant aroma to Adonai : two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs a year old; 
and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths for each bull, two tenths for the one ram, 
one tenth for every lamb of the seven lambs; 
one male goat, to make atonement for you. 
Besides the continual burnt offering, and its meal offering, you shall offer them and their drink offerings. See that they are without defect. 
