Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 23.
He who is emasculated by by crushed or damaged private parts shall not enter into Adonai ’s assembly. 
A person born of a forbidden union shall not enter into Adonai ’s assembly; even to the tenth generation shall no one of his enter into Adonai ’s assembly. 
An Ammonite Tribal people or a Moabite From father shall not enter into Adonai ’s assembly; even to the tenth generation shall no one belonging to them enter into Adonai ’s assembly forever; 
because they didn’t meet you with bread and with water on the way, when you came out of Egypt Abode of slavery, and because they hired against you Balaam Not people, Destroyer of people the son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse you. 
Nevertheless Adonai your God would not sh'ma ·hear obey· Balaam Not people, Destroyer of people; but Adonai your God turned the curse into a blessing to you, because Adonai your God 'ahav ·affectionately loved· you. 
You shall not seek their peace nor their prosperity all your days forever. (4) 
You shall not abhor an Edomite Red; for he is your brother. You shall not abhor an Egyptian person from Abode of slavery, because you lived as a foreigner in his land. 
The children of the third generation who are born to them may enter into Adonai ’s assembly. 
When you go out and camp against your enemies, then you shall keep yourselves from every evil thing. 
If there is among you any man who is not clean by reason of that which happens him by night, then shall he go outside of the camp. He shall not come within the camp; 
but it shall be, when evening comes, he shall bathe himself in water. When the sun is down, he shall come within the camp. 
You shall have a place also outside of the camp where you go relieve yourself. 
You shall have a trowel among your weapons. It shall be, when you relieve yourself, you shall dig with it, and shall turn back and cover your excrement; 
for Adonai your God walks in the middle of your camp, to deliver you, and to give up your enemies before you. Therefore your camp shall be holy, that he may not see an unclean thing in you, and turn away from you. 
You shall not deliver to his master a servant who has escaped from his master to you. 
He shall dwell with you, among you, in the place which he shall choose within one of your gates, where it pleases him best. You shall not oppress him. 
There shall be no prostitute of the daughters of Israel God prevails, neither shall there be a sodomite of the sons of Israel God prevails. 
You shall not bring the hire of a prostitute, or the wages of a male prostitute, into the house of Adonai your God for any vow; for both of these are an abomination to Adonai your God. 
You shall not lend on interest to your brother; interest of money, interest of food, interest of anything that is lent on interest. 
You may lend on interest to a foreigner; but to your brother you shall not lend on interest, that Adonai your God may bless you in all that you put your hand to, in the land where you go in to possess it. 
When you vow a vow to Adonai your God, you shall not be slack to pay it; for Adonai your God will surely require it of you; and it would be sin in you. 
But if you refrain from making a vow, it shall be no sin in you. 
You shall observe and do that which has gone out of your lips. Whatever you have vowed to Adonai your God as a free will offering, which you have promised with your mouth, you must do. (5) 
When you come and enter into your neighbor’s vineyard, then you may eat of grapes your fill at your own pleasure; but you shall not put any in your container. 
When you come into your neighbor’s standing grain, then you may pluck the ears with your hand; but you shall not move a sickle to your neighbor’s standing grain. 
