Matthew [Gift of Yah].
Chapter 16.
The Pharisees Separated and Sadducees Morally-upright came, and testing him, asked him to show them a sign from heaven. 
But he answered them, “When it is evening, you say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.’ 
In the morning, ‘It will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and threatening.’ Hypocrites! You know how to discern the appearance of the sky, but you can’t discern the signs of the times! 
An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and there will be no sign given to it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah Dove.” He left them, and departed. 
The disciples came to the other side and had forgotten to take bread. 
Yeshua Salvation said to them, “Take heed and beware of the hametz ·leaven· of the Pharisees Separated and Sadducees Morally-upright.” 
They reasoned among themselves, saying, “We brought no bread.” 
Yeshua Salvation, perceiving it, said, “Why do you reason among yourselves, you of little trusting faith, ‘because you have brought no bread?’ 
Don’t you yet perceive, neither remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets you took up? 
Nor the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets you took up? 
How is it that you don’t perceive that I didn’t speak to you concerning bread? But beware of the hametz ·leaven· of the Pharisees Separated and Sadducees Morally-upright.” 
Then they understood that he didn’t tell them to beware of the hametz ·leaven· of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees Separated and Sadducees Morally-upright. 
Now when Yeshua Salvation came into the parts of Caesarea Philippi Ruler Loves horses, he asked his disciples, saying, “Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am?” 
They said, “Some say John Yah is gracious the Immerser, some, Elijah My God Yah, and others, Jeremiah Yah lifts up, or one of the prophets.” 
He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” 
Simeon Peter Hearing Rock answered, “You are the Messiah Anointed one, haBen haElohim Chayim the Son of the God Living.” 
Yeshua Salvation answered him, “Blessed are you, Simeon Bar Jonah Hearing son of Dove, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but 'Avi shebashamayim ·my Father in Heaven·. 
I also tell you that you are Peter Rock, and on this rock I will build my assembly, and the gates of Hades / Sh'ol ·Place of the dead· will not prevail against it. 
I will give to you the keys of the Kingdom of Heaven (God), and whatever you bind on earth will have been bound in heaven; and whatever you release on earth will have been released in heaven.” 
Then he commanded the disciples that they should tell no one that he was Yeshua the Messiah Salvation the Anointed one. 
From that time, Yeshua Salvation began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem City of peace and suffer many things from the elders, chief priests, and Torah-Teachers, and be killed, and the third day be raised up. 
Peter Rock took him aside, and began to rebuke him, saying, “Far be it from you, Lord! This will never be done to you.” 
But he turned, and said to Peter Rock, “Get behind me, Satan Adversary! You are a stumbling block to me, for you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of men.” 
Then Yeshua Salvation said to his disciples, “If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his execution-stake, and follow me. 
For whoever desires to save his life will lose it, and whoever will lose his life for my sake will find it. 
For what will it profit a man, if he gains the whole world, and forfeits his life? Or what will a man give in exchange for his life? 
For the Son of Man will come in the glory of 'Aviv ·his Father· with his angels, and then he will render to everyone according to his deeds. 
Most certainly I tell you, there are some standing here who will in no way taste of death, until they see the Son of Man coming in his Kingdom.” 
