Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 23.
Sarah Princess lived one hundred twenty-seven years. This was the length of Sarah Princess’s life. 
Sarah Princess died in Kiriath Arba (also called Hebron), in the land of Canaan Humbled. Abraham Father of a multitude came to mourn for Sarah Princess, and to weep for her. 
Abraham Father of a multitude rose up from before his dead, and spoke to the children of Heth Trembling fear, saying, 
“I am a stranger and a foreigner living with you. Give me a possession of a burying-place with you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight.” 
The children of Heth Trembling fear answered Abraham Father of a multitude, saying to him, 
“Sh'ma ·hear obey· us, my lord. You are a prince of God among us. Bury your dead in the best of our tombs. None of us will withhold from you his tomb. Bury your dead.” 
Abraham Father of a multitude rose up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, even to the children of Heth Trembling fear. 
He talked with them, saying, “If you agree that I should bury my dead out of my sight, sh'ma ·hear obey· me, and entreat for me to Ephron Fawn-like the son of Zohar, 
that he may give me the cave of Machpelah Double, which he has, which is in the end of his field. For the full price let him give it to me among you for a possession of a burying-place.” 
Now Ephron Fawn-like was sitting in the middle of the children of Heth Trembling fear. Ephron Fawn-like the Hittite Descendant of Trembling fear answered Abraham Father of a multitude in the hearing of the children of Heth Trembling fear, even of all who went in at the gate of his city, saying, 
“No, my lord, sh'ma ·hear obey· me. I give you the field, and I give you the cave that is in it. In the presence of the children of my people I give it to you. Bury your dead.” 
Abraham Father of a multitude bowed himself down before the people of the land. 
He spoke to Ephron Fawn-like in the audience of the people of the land, saying, “But if you will, please sh'ma ·hear obey· me. I will give the price of the field. Take it from me, and I will bury my dead there.” 
Ephron Fawn-like answered Abraham Father of a multitude, saying to him, 
“My lord, sh'ma ·hear obey· unto me. What is a piece of land worth four hundred shekels 10 lb; 4.54 kg of silver between me and you? Therefore bury your dead.” 
Abraham Father of a multitude sh'ma ·heard obeyed· to Ephron Fawn-like. Abraham Father of a multitude weighed to Ephron Fawn-like the silver which he had named in the audience of the children of Heth Trembling fear, four hundred shekels 10 lb; 4.54 kg of silver, according to the current merchants’ standard where one shekel is 0.4 oz; 11.34 g. (2) 
So the field of Ephron Fawn-like, which was in Machpelah Double, which was before Mamre Bitter, Fatness, the field, the cave which was in it, and all the trees that were in the field, that were in all of its borders, were deeded 
to Abraham Father of a multitude for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth Trembling fear, before all who went in at the gate of his city. 
After this, Abraham Father of a multitude buried Sarah Princess his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah Double before Mamre Bitter, Fatness (that is, Hebron), in the land of Canaan Humbled. 
The field, and the cave that is in it, were deeded to Abraham Father of a multitude for a possession of a burying place by the children of Heth Trembling fear. 
