John [Yah is gracious].
Chapter 8.
But Yeshua Salvation went to the Mount of Olives. 
Now very early in the morning (seventh month 22nd day), he came again into the temple, and all the people came to him. He sat down, and taught them. (This day is called Sh'mini Atrzeret ·Eighth day Assembly·.) 
The Torah-Teachers and the Pharisees Separated brought a woman taken in moicheia ·adultery· and set her in the midst of Yeshua Salvation. 
They told him, “Teacher, we found this woman moicheuo ·committing adultery·, in the very act. 
Now in our Torah ·Teaching·, Moses Drawn out enjoined us that such a woman be stoned to death. What then do you say about her?” 
They said this testing him, that they might have something to accuse him of. But Yeshua Salvation stooped down, and wrote on the ground with his finger. 
But when they continued asking him, he looked up and said to them, “He who is without sin among you, let him throw the first stone at her.” 
Again he stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground. 
They, when they heard it, being convicted by their conscience, went out one by one, beginning from the oldest, even to the last. Yeshua Salvation was left alone with the woman where she was, in the middle. 
Yeshua Salvation, standing up, saw her and said, “Woman, where are your accusers? Did no one condemn you?” 
She said, “No one, Lord.” Yeshua Salvation said, “Neither do I condemn you. Go your way. From now on, sin no more.” 
Again, therefore, Yeshua Salvation spoke to them, saying, “ Ena Na I AM (the Living God), the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in the darkness, but will have the light of life.” 
The Pharisees Separated therefore said to him, “You testify about yourself. Your testimony is not valid.” 
Yeshua Salvation answered them, “Even if I testify about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from, and where I am going; but you don’t know where I came from, or where I am going. 
You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one. 
Even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I am with Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad· who sent me. 
It’s also written in your Torah ·Teaching· that the testimony of two people is valid. 
Ena Na I AM (the Living God) that testifies about myself, and Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad· who sent me testifies about me.” 
They said therefore to him, “Where is your Abba Father?” Yeshua Salvation answered, “You know neither me, nor 'Avi ·my Father·. If you knew me, you would know 'Avi ·my Father· also.” 
Yeshua Salvation spoke these words in the treasury, as he taught in the temple. Yet no one arrested him, because his hour had not yet come. 
Yeshua Salvation said therefore again to them, “I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sins. Where I go, you can’t come.” 
The Jews Praisers therefore said, “Will he kill himself, that he says, ‘Where I am going, you can’t come’?” 
He said to them, “You are from beneath. I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world. 
I said therefore to you that you will die in your sins; for unless you believe that Ena Na I AM (the Living God), you will die in your sins.” 
They said therefore to him, “Who are you?” Yeshua Salvation said to them, “Just what I have been saying to you from the beginning. 
I have many things to speak and to judge concerning you. However he who sent me is true; and the things which I heard from him, these I say to the world.” 
They didn’t understand that he spoke to them about haAbba ·the Father·. 
Yeshua Salvation therefore said to them, “When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that Ena Na I AM (the Living God), and I do nothing of myself, but as 'Avi ·my Father· taught me, I say these things. 
He who sent me is with me. Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad· has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him.” 
As he spoke these things, many believed in him. 
Yeshua Salvation therefore said to those Jews Praisers who had believed him, “If you remain in my word, then you are truly my disciples. 
You will know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” 
They answered him, “We are Abraham Father of a multitude’s offspring, and have never been in bondage to anyone. How do you say, ‘You will be made free’?” 
Yeshua Salvation answered them, “Most certainly I tell you, everyone who commits sin is the bond-servant of sin. 
A bond-servant does not live in the house forever. A son remains forever. 
If therefore the Son makes you free, you will be free indeed. 
I know that you are Abraham Father of a multitude’s offspring, yet you seek to kill me, because my word finds no place in you. 
I say the things which I have seen with 'Avi ·my Father·; and you also do the things which you have seen with 'Avikah ·your Father·.” 
They answered him, “Abraham Father of a multitude is Avinu ·our Father·.” Yeshua Salvation said to them, “If you were Abraham Father of a multitude’s children, you would do the works of Abraham Father of a multitude. 
But now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. Abraham Father of a multitude didn’t do this. 
You do the works of your Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad·.” They said to him, “We were not born of porhneia ·sexual immorality·; we have one Abba Father, God.” 
Therefore Yeshua Salvation said to them, “If God were your Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad·, you would have agapao ·total devotion love· towards me, for I came out and have come from God. For I haven’t come of myself, but he sent me. 
Why don’t you understand my speech? Because you can’t hear my word. 
You are of your Abba father, the devil, and you want to do the epithumia ·lusts, desires· of 'Avikah ·your Father·. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks on his own; for he is a liar, and its Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad·. 
But because I tell the truth, you don’t believe me. 
Which of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? 
He who is of God hears the words of God. For this cause you don’t hear, because you are not of God.” 
Then the Jews Praisers answered him, “Don’t we say well that you are a Samaritan person from Watch-mountain, and have a demon?” 
Yeshua Salvation answered, “I don’t have a demon, but I honor 'Avi ·my Father·, and you dishonor me. 
But I don’t seek my own glory. There is one who seeks and judges. 
Most certainly, I tell you, if a person keeps my word, he will never see death.” 
Then the Jews Praisers said to him, “Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham Father of a multitude died, and the prophets; and you say, ‘If a man keeps my word, he will never taste of death.’ 
Are you greater than Abraham Father of a multitude Avinu ·our Father·, who died? The prophets died. Who do you make yourself out to be?” 
Yeshua Salvation answered, “If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is 'Avi ·my Father· who glorifies me, of whom you say that he is our God. 
You have not known him, but I know him. If I said, ‘I don’t know him,’ I would be like you, a liar. But I know him, and keep his word. 
'Avikah ·your Father· Abraham Father of a multitude rejoiced to see my day. He saw it, and was glad.” 
The Jews Praisers therefore said to him, “You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham Father of a multitude?” 
Yeshua Salvation said to them, “Most certainly, I tell you, before Abraham Father of a multitude came into existence, Ena Na I AM (the Living God).” 
Therefore they took up stones to throw at him, but Yeshua Salvation was hidden, and went out of the temple, having gone through the middle of them, and so passed by. 
