Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 30.
It shall happen, when all these things have come on you, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before you, and you shall call them to mind among all the nations, where Adonai your God has driven you, 
and teshuvah ·completely return· to Adonai your God, and sh'ma ·hear obey· his voice according to all that I enjoin you today, you and your children, with all your heart, and with all your soul; 
that then Adonai your God will release you from captivity, have racham ·compassionate love· on you, and will make teshuvah ·complete return· and gather you from all the peoples where Adonai your God has scattered you. 
If your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of the heavens, from there Adonai your God will gather you, and from there he will bring you back. 
Adonai your God will bring you into the land which your fathers possessed, and you will possess it. He will do you good, and increase your numbers more than your fathers. 
Adonai your God will circumcise your heart, and the heart of your offspring, to 'ahav ·affectionately love· Adonai your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, that you may live. (RY:3, LY:5) 
Adonai your God will put all these curses on your enemies, and on those who hate you, who persecuted you. 
You shall make teshuvah ·complete return· and sh'ma ·hear obey· Adonai ’s voice, and do all his mitzvot ·instructions· which I enjoin you today. 
Adonai your God will make you plenteous in all the work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, in the fruit of your livestock, and in the fruit of your ground, for good; for Adonai will again rejoice over you for good, as he rejoiced over your fathers; 
if you will sh'ma ·hear obey· Adonai your God’s voice, to keep his mitzvot ·instructions· and his statutes which are written in this book of the Torah ·Teaching·; if you turn to Adonai your God with all your heart, and with all your soul. (LY:6) 
For this mitzvah ·instruction· which I enjoin you today is not too hard for you or too distant. 
It is not in heaven, so that you should say, “Who will go up for us to heaven, and bring it to us, that we may sh'ma ·hear obey· it, so we may do it?” 
Neither is it beyond the sea, that you should say, “Who will go over the sea for us, and bring it to us, that we may that we may sh'ma ·hear obey· it, so it, so we may do it?” 
But the word is very near to you, in your mouth and in your heart, that you may do it. (RY:4, LY:7) 
Behold, I have set before you today life and prosperity, and death and evil. 
For I enjoin you today to 'ahav ·affectionately love· Adonai your God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his mitzvot ·instructions·, his statutes, and his judgments, that you may live and multiply, and that Adonai your God may bless you in the land where you go in to possess it. 
But if your heart turns away, and you will not sh'ma ·hear obey·, but are drawn away, and hawa ·bow low, prostrate· to worship other deities, and abad ·serve· them; (LY: Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
I denounce to you today, that you will surely perish. You will not prolong your days in the land where you pass over the Jordan Descender to go in to possess it. 
I call heaven and earth to witness against you today, that I have set before you life and death, the blessing and the curse. Therefore choose life, that you may live, you and your descendants; 
to 'ahav ·affectionately love· Adonai your God, to sh'ma ·hear obey· his voice, and to dabak ·cling to, worship· him; for he is your life, and the length of your days; that you may dwell in the land which Adonai swore to your fathers, to Abraham Father of a multitude, to Isaac Laughter, and to Jacob Supplanter, to give them. 
