Psalms [Praises].
Chapter 22.
My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from yishu'ah ·delivering· me, and from the words of my groaning? 
My God, I cry in the daytime, but you don’t answer; in the night season, and am not silent. 
But you are holy, you who inhabit the tehilahot ·praise songs· of Israel God prevails. 
Our fathers trusted in you. They trusted, and you delivered them. 
They cried to you, and were delivered. They trusted in you, and were not disappointed. 
But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised by the people. 
All who see me jeer at me. They insult me and shake their heads: 
“He trusts in Adonai ; so let him set him free! Let him rescue him, since he delights in him.” 
But you brought me out of the womb. You made me trust while at my mother’s breasts. 
I was thrown on you from my mother’s womb. You are my God since my mother bore me. 
Don’t be far from me, for trouble is near. For there is no one to help. 
Many bulls have surrounded me. Strong bulls of Bashan have encircled me. 
They open their mouths wide against me, lions tearing prey and roaring. 
I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax; it is melted within me. 
My strength is dried up like a potsherd. My tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth. You have brought me into the dust of death. 
For dogs have surrounded me. A company of villains have enclosed me. They have pierced my hands and feet. 
I can count all of my bones. They look and stare at me. 
They divide my garments among them. They cast lots for my clothing. 
But don’t be far off, Adonai . You are my help: hurry to help me. 
Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog. 
Save me from the lion’s mouth! Yes, from the horns of the wild oxen, you have answered me. 
I will declare your name to my brothers. Among the assembly, I will praise you. 
You who fear Adonai , praise him! All you descendants of Jacob Supplanter, glorify him! Stand in awe of him, all you descendants of Israel God prevails! 
For he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, Neither has he hidden his face from him; but when he cried to him, he sh'ma ·heard obeyed·. 
Of you comes my tehilah ·praise song· in the great assembly. I will pay my vows before those who fear him. 
The humble shall eat and be satisfied. They shall praise Adonai who seek after him. Let your hearts live forever. 
All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to Adonai . All the relatives of the nations shall hawa ·bow low, prostrate· to worship before you. 
For the kingdom is Adonai ’s. He is the ruler over the nations. 
All the rich ones of the earth shall eat and worship. All those who go down to the dust shall bow before him, even he who can’t keep his soul alive. 
Posterity shall serve him. Future generations shall be told about the Lord. 
They shall come and shall declare his righteousness to a people that shall be born, for he has done it. 
