Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 11.
Therefore you shall 'ahav ·affectionately love· Adonai your God, and keep his instructions, his statutes, his judgments, and his mitzvot ·instructions·, always. 
Know this day: for I don’t speak with your children who have not known, and who have not seen the chastisement of Adonai your God, his greatness, his mighty hand, his outstretched arm, 
his signs, and his works, which he did in the middle of Egypt Abode of slavery to Pharaoh the king of Egypt Abode of slavery, and to all his land; 
and what he did to the army of Egypt Abode of slavery, to their horses, and to their chariots; how he made the water of the Sea of Suf Reed Sea to overflow them as they pursued you, and how Adonai has destroyed them to this day; 
and what he did to you in the wilderness, until you came to this place; 
and what he did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben See, a son!; how the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up, and their households, and their tents, and every living thing that followed them, in the middle of all Israel God prevails; 
but your eyes have seen all of Adonai ’s great work which he did. 
Therefore you shall keep every mitzvah ·instruction· which I enjoin you today, that you may be strong, and go in and possess the land, where you go over to possess it; 
and that you may prolong your days in the land, which Adonai swore to your fathers to give to them and to their offspring, a land flowing with milk and honey. (6) 
For the land, where you go in to possess it, is not as the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, that you came out of, where you sowed your seed, and watered it with your foot, as a garden of herbs; 
but the land, where you go over to possess it, is a land of hills and valleys which drinks water from the rain of the sky, 
a land which Adonai your God cares for. Adonai your God’s eyes are always on it, from the beginning of the year even to the end of the year. 
It shall happen, if you shall sh'ma ·hear obey· diligently to my mitzvot ·instructions· which I enjoin you today, to 'ahav ·affectionately love· Adonai your God, and to abad ·serve· him with all your heart and with all your soul, 
that I will give the rain of your land in its season, the former rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain, your new wine, and your oil. 
I will give grass in your fields for your livestock, and you shall eat and be full. 
Be careful, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside, and abad ·serve· other deities, and hawa ·bow low, prostrate· to worship them; 
and Adonai ’s anger be kindled against you, and he shut up the sky, so that there is no rain, and the land does not yield its fruit; and you perish quickly from off the good land which Adonai gives you. 
Therefore you shall lay up these my words in your heart and in your soul. You shall bind them for a sign on your hand, and they shall be for frontlets between your eyes. 
You shall teach them your children, talking of them, when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up. 
You shall write them on the door posts of your house, and on your gates; 
that your days may be multiplied, and the days of your children, in the land which Adonai swore to your fathers to give them, as the days of the heavens above the earth. (7 and Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
For if you shall diligently keep all these mitzvot ·instructions· which I enjoin you, to do them, to 'ahav ·affectionately love· Adonai your God, to walk in all his ways, and to dabak ·cling to, worship· to him; 
then will Adonai drive out all these nations from before you, and you shall dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourselves. 
Every place whereon the sole of your foot treads shall be yours: from the wilderness, and Lebanon, from the river, the river Euphrates Fruitful, even to the western sea shall be your border. 
No man will be able to stand before you. Adonai your God will lay the fear of you and the dread of you on all the land that you tread on, as he has spoken to you. 
Behold, I set before you today a blessing and a curse: 
the blessing, if you sh'ma ·hear obey· the mitzvot ·instructions· of Adonai your God, which I enjoin you today; 
and the curse, if you do not sh'ma ·hear obey· the mitzvot ·instructions· of Adonai your God, but turn aside out of the way which I enjoin you today, to go after other deities, which you have not known. 
It shall happen, when Adonai your God brings you into the land where you go to possess it, that you shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim, and the curse on Mount Ebal. 
Are not they beyond the Jordan Descender, behind the way of the going down of the sun, in the land of the Canaanites Descendants of Humbled who dwell in the Arabah, near Gilgal, beside the oaks of Moreh? 
For you are to pass over the Jordan Descender to go in to possess the land which Adonai your God gives you, and you shall possess it, and dwell therein. 
You shall observe to do all the statutes and the judgments which I set before you today. 
