Psalms [Praises].
Chapter 118.
Yadah ·Extend hands in thankful praise· to Adonai , for he is good, for his cheshed ·loving-kindness· endures forever. 
Let Israel God prevails now say that his cheshed ·loving-kindness· endures forever. 
Let the house of Aaron Light-bringer now say that his cheshed ·loving-kindness· endures forever. 
Now let those who fear Adonai say that his cheshed ·loving-kindness· endures forever. 
Out of my distress, I called on Yah. Yah answered me with freedom. 
With Adonai on my side. I will not be afraid. What can a human being do to me? 
Adonai is on my side among those who help me. Therefore I will look in triumph at those who hate me. 
It is better to take refuge in Adonai , than to put confidence in man. 
It is better to take refuge in Adonai , than to put confidence in princes. 
All the nations surrounded me, but in Adonai ’s name, I cut them off. 
They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me. In Adonai ’s name I indeed cut them off. 
They surrounded me like bees. They are quenched like the burning thorns. In Adonai ’s name I cut them off. 
You pushed me back hard, to make me fall, but Adonai helped me. 
Yah is my strength and song. He has become my yishu'ah ·salvation·. 
The voice of rejoicing and yishu'ah ·salvation· is in the tents of the upright. “The right hand of Adonai does valiantly. 
The right hand of Adonai is exalted! The right hand of Adonai does valiantly!” 
I will not die, but live, and declare Yah’s works. 
Yah has punished me severely, but he has not given me over to death. 
Open to me the gates of righteousness. I will enter into them. I will yadah ·extend hands in thankful praise· to Yah. 
This is the gate of Adonai ; the upright will enter into it. 
I will yadah ·extend hands in thankful praise· to you, for you have answered me, and have become my yishu'ah ·salvation·. 
The stone which the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. 
This is Adonai ’s doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. 
This is the day that Adonai has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it! 
Save us now, we beg you, Adonai ! Adonai , we beg you, send prosperity now. 
Blessed is he who comes in the name of Adonai ! We have blessed you out of Adonai ’s house. 
Adonai is God, and he has given us light. Bind the sacrifice with cords, even to the horns of the altar. 
You are my God, and I will yadah ·extend hands in thankful praise· to you. You are my God, I will exalt you. 
Oh yadah ·extend hands in thankful praise· to Adonai , for he is good, for his cheshed ·loving-kindness· endures forever. 
