Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 13.
Avram Exalted father went up out of Egypt Abode of slavery— he, his wife, all that he had, and Lot Veil, Covering with him— into the South. 
Avram Exalted father was very rich in livestock, in silver, and in gold. 
He went on his journeys from the South even to Beth-el House of God, to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Beth-el House of God and Ai, 
to the place of the altar, which he had made there at the first. There Avram Exalted father called on Adonai ’s name. (3) 
Lot Veil, Covering also, who went with Avram Exalted father, had flocks, herds, and tents. 
The land was not able to bear them, that they might live together; for their substance was great, so that they could not live together. 
There was strife between the herdsmen of Avram Exalted father’s livestock and the herdsmen of Lot Veil, Covering’s livestock. The Canaanites Descendants of Humbled and the Perizzites Descendants of Belonging to village lived in the land at that time. 
Avram Exalted father said to Lot Veil, Covering, “Please, let there be no strife between you and me, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen; for we are relatives. 
Is not the whole land before you? Please separate yourself from me. If you go to the left hand, then I will go to the right. Or if you go to the right hand, then I will go to the left.” 
Lot Veil, Covering lifted up his eyes, and saw all the plain of the Jordan Descender, that it was well-watered everywhere, before Adonai destroyed Sodom Burning and Gomorrah Rebellious people, Tyrants, like the garden of Adonai , like the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, as you go to Zoar Small. 
So Lot Veil, Covering chose the Plain of the Jordan Descender for himself. Lot Veil, Covering traveled east, and they separated themselves the one from the other. 
Avram Exalted father lived in the land of Canaan Humbled, and Lot Veil, Covering lived in the 'Ieyr HaKikar Cities of the Round, and moved his tent as far as Sodom Burning. 
Now the men of Sodom Burning were exceedingly wicked and sinners against Adonai . 
Adonai said to Avram Exalted father, after Lot Veil, Covering was separated from him, “Now, lift up your eyes, and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward, 
for all the land which you see, I will give to you, and to your offspring forever. 
I will make your offspring as the dust of the earth, so that if a man can count the dust of the earth, then your offspring may also be counted. 
Arise, walk through the land in its length and in its width; for I will give it to you.” 
Avram Exalted father moved his tent, and came and lived by the oaks of Mamre Bitter, Fatness, which are in Hebron, and built an altar there to Adonai . 
