Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 52.
Awake, awake! Put on your strength, Zion Mountain ridge, Marking. Put on your beautiful garments, Jerusalem City of peace, the holy city: for from now on the uncircumcised and the unclean will no more come into you. 
Shake yourself from the dust! Arise, sit up, Jerusalem City of peace! Release yourself from the bonds of your neck, captive daughter of Zion Mountain ridge, Marking! 
For Adonai says, “You were sold for nothing; and you will be redeemed without money.” 
For thus says the Lord Adonai : “My people went down at the first into Egypt Abode of slavery to live there: and the Assyrian has oppressed them without cause. 
“Now therefore, what do I do here,” says Adonai , “seeing that my people are taken away for nothing? Those who rule over them mock,” says Adonai , “and my name is blasphemed continually all the day. 
Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore they shall know in that day that I am he who speaks. Behold, it is I.” 
How beautiful on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who sh'ma ·hear obey, declares· peace, who brings good news, who sh'ma ·hear obey, proclaims· yishu'ah ·salvation·, who says to Zion Mountain ridge, Marking, “Your God reigns!” 
Your watchmen lift up their voice, together they sing; for they shall see eye to eye, when Adonai makes teshuvah ·complete return· to Zion Mountain ridge, Marking. 
Break out into joy, sing together, you waste places of Jerusalem City of peace; for Adonai has comforted his people. He has redeemed Jerusalem City of peace. 
Adonai has made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth have seen the yishu'ah ·salvation· of our God. 
Depart, depart, go out from there; touch no unclean thing! Go out from among her! Cleanse yourselves, you who carry Adonai ’s temple equipment. 
For you shall not go out in haste, neither shall you go by flight: for Adonai will go before you; and the God of Israel God prevails will be your rear guard. 
Behold, my servant will deal wisely. He will be exalted and lifted up, and will be very high. 
Just as many were astonished at you (his appearance was marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men), 
so he will cleanse many nations. Kings will shut their mouths at him: for they will see that which had not been told them; and that which they did not sh'ma ·hear obey· they will consider and understand. 
