Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 16.
They took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children of Israel God prevails came to the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai Thorn, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. 
The whole congregation of the children of Israel God prevails murmured against Moses Drawn out and against Aaron Light-bringer in the wilderness; 
and the children of Israel God prevails said to them, “We wish that we had died by Adonai ’s hand in the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, when we sat by the meat pots, when we ate our fill of bread, for you have brought us out into this wilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger.” 
Then Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Behold, I will rain bread from the sky for you, and the people shall go out and gather a day’s portion every day, that I may test them, whether they will walk in my Torah ·Teaching·, or not. 
It shall come to pass on the sixth day, that they shall prepare that which they bring in, and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily.” 
Moses Drawn out and Aaron Light-bringer said to all the children of Israel God prevails, “At evening, then you shall know that Adonai has brought you out from the land of Egypt Abode of slavery; 
and in the morning, then you shall see the kavod Yahweh ·weighty glory of He sustains breathing·; because he sh'ma ·hears obeys· your murmurings against Adonai . Who are we, that you murmur against us?” 
Moses Drawn out said, “Now Adonai shall give you meat to eat in the evening, and in the morning bread to satisfy you; because Adonai sh'ma ·hears obeys· your murmurings which you murmur against him. And who are we? Your murmurings are not against us, but against Adonai .” 
Moses Drawn out said to Aaron Light-bringer, “Tell all the congregation of the children of Israel God prevails, ‘Come near before Adonai , for he has heard your murmurings.’” 
As Aaron Light-bringer spoke to the whole congregation of the children of Israel God prevails, they looked toward the wilderness, and behold, the kavod Yahweh ·weighty glory of He sustains breathing· appeared in the cloud. (A:6, S:5) 
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“I have sh'ma ·heard obeyed· the murmurings of the children of Israel God prevails. Speak to them, saying, ‘At evening you shall eat meat, and in the morning you shall be filled with bread: and you shall know that I am Adonai your God.’” 
In the evening, quail came up and covered the camp; and in the morning the dew lay around the camp. 
When the dew that lay had gone, behold, on the surface of the wilderness was a small round thing, small as the frost on the ground. 
When the children of Israel God prevails saw it, they asked one another, “Man hu? ·What is it·?” For they didn’t know what it was. Moses Drawn out answered them, “It is the bread which Adonai has given you to eat.” 
This is the thing which Adonai has enjoined: “Gather of it everyone according to his eating; an omer ·sheath of grain· 2.6 qt; 1.2 L a head, according to the number of your persons, you shall take it, every man for those who are in his tent.” 
The children of Israel God prevails did so, and gathered some more, some less. 
When they measured it with an omer ·sheath of grain· 2.6 qt; 1.2 L, he who gathered much had nothing extra, and he who gathered little had nothing lacking. They gathered every man according to his eating. 
Moses Drawn out said to them, “Let no one leave of it until the morning.” 
Notwithstanding they didn’t sh'ma ·hear obey· Moses Drawn out, but some of them left of it until the morning, and it bred worms, and became foul: and Moses Drawn out was angry with them. 
They gathered it morning by morning, everyone according to his eating. When the sun grew hot, it melted. 
On the sixth day, they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for each one, and all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses Drawn out. 
He said to them, “This is that which Adonai has spoken, ‘Tomorrow is a solemn rest, a holy Sabbath ·To cease· to Adonai . Bake that which you want to bake, and boil that which you want to boil; and all that remains over lay up for yourselves to be kept until the morning.’” 
They laid it up until the morning, as Moses Drawn out enjoined, and it didn’t become foul, and there were no worms in it. 
Moses Drawn out said, “Eat that today, for today is a Sabbath ·To cease· to Adonai . Today you shall not find it in the field. 
Six days you shall gather it, but on the seventh day is the Sabbath ·To cease·. In it there shall be none.” 
On the seventh day, some of the people went out to gather, and they found none. 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “How long do you refuse to keep my mitzvot ·instructions· and my torot ·teachings·? 
Behold, because Adonai has given you the Sabbath ·To cease·, therefore he gives you on the sixth day the bread of two days. Everyone stay in his place. Let no one go out of his place on the seventh day.” (S:6) 
So the people rested on the seventh day. 
The house of Israel God prevails called its name Manna ·What is it·, and it was like coriander seed, white; and its taste was like wafers with honey. 
Moses Drawn out said, “This is the thing which Adonai has enjoined, ‘Let an omer-full of it be kept throughout all your generations, that they may see the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness, when I brought you out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery.’” 
Moses Drawn out said to Aaron Light-bringer, “Take a pot, and put an omer-full of manna ·what is it· in it, and lay it up before Adonai , to be kept throughout all your generations.” 
As Adonai enjoined Moses Drawn out, so Aaron Light-bringer laid it up before the Testimony, to be kept. 
The children of Israel God prevails ate the manna ·what is it· forty years, until they came to an inhabited land. They ate the manna ·what is it· until they came to the borders of the land of Canaan Humbled. 
Now an omer ·sheath of grain· 2.6 qt; 1.2 L is one tenth of an ephah 0.63 bushels; 5.9 gal; 22 L. 
