Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 11.
A shoot will come out of the stock of Jesse My husband, and a netzer ·branch· out of his roots will bear fruit. 
Ruach Yahweh Spirit of He sustains breathing will rest on him: the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of Adonai . 
His delight will be in the fear of Adonai . He will not judge by the sight of his eyes, neither decide by the hearing of his ears; 
but with righteousness he will judge the poor, and decide with equity for the humble of the earth. He will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth; and with the breath of his lips he will kill the wicked. 
Justice will be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his waist. 
The wolf will live with the lamb, and the leopard will lie down with the young goat; The calf, the young lion, and the fattened calf together; and a little child will lead them. 
The cow and the bear will graze. Their young ones will lie down together. The lion will eat straw like the ox. 
The nursing child will play near a cobra’s hole, and the weaned child will put his hand on the viper’s den. 
They will not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain; for the earth will be full of the knowledge of Adonai , as the waters cover the sea. 
It will happen in that day that the nations will seek the root of Jesse My husband, who stands as a banner of the peoples; and his resting place will be kavod ·weighty glorious·. 
It will happen in that day that the Lord will set his hand again the second time to recover the remnant that is left of his people from Assyria Level plain, from Egypt Abode of slavery, from Pathros, from Cush, from Elam, from Shinar, from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea. 
He will set up a banner for the nations, and will assemble the outcasts of Israel God prevails, and gather together the dispersed of Judah Praised from the four corners of the earth. 
The envy also of Ephraim Fruit will depart, and those who persecute Judah Praised will be cut off. Ephraim Fruit won’t envy Judah Praised, and Judah Praised won’t persecute Ephraim Fruit. 
They will fly down on the shoulders of the Philistines To roll in dust (As an insult) on the west. Together they will plunder the children of the east. They will extend their power over Edom Red and Moab From father, and the children of Ammon Tribal people will obey them. 
Adonai will utterly destroy the tongue of the Sea of Egypt Abode of slavery; and with his scorching wind he will wave his hand over the River, and will split it into seven streams, and cause men to march over in sandals. 
There will be a highway for the remnant that is left of his people from Assyria Level plain, like there was for Israel God prevails in the day that he came up out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery. 
