Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 39.
Joseph May he add was brought down to Egypt Abode of slavery. Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh’s, the captain of the guard, an Egyptian person from Abode of slavery, bought him from the hand of the Ishmaelites Pays attention God that had brought him down there. 
Adonai was with Joseph May he add, and he was a prosperous man. He was in the house of his master the Egyptian person from Abode of slavery. 
His master saw that Adonai was with him, and that Adonai made all that he did prosper in his hand. 
Joseph May he add found chen ·grace· in his sight. He ministered to him, and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into his hand. 
From the time that he made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, Adonai blessed the Egyptian’s person from Abode of slavery house for Joseph May he add’s sake. Adonai ’s blessing was on all that he had, in the house and in the field. 
He left all that he had in Joseph May he add’s hand. He didn’t concern himself with anything, except for the food which he ate. Joseph May he add was well-built and handsome. (6) 
After these things, his master’s wife set her eyes on Joseph May he add; and she said, “Lie with me.” 
But he refused, and said to his master’s wife, “Behold, my master does not know what is with me in the house, and he has put all that he has into my hand. 
No one is greater in this house than I am, and he has not kept back anything from me but you, because you are his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?” 
As she spoke to Joseph May he add day by day, he didn’t sh'ma ·hear obey· her, to lie by her, or to be with her. 
About this time, he went into the house to do his work, and there were none of the men of the house inside. 
She caught him by his garment, saying, “Lie with me!” He left his garment in her hand, and ran outside. 
When she saw that he had left his garment in her hand, and had run outside, 
she called to the men of her house, and spoke to them, saying, “Behold, he has brought in a Hebrew Immigrant to us to mock us. He came in to me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice. 
When he sh'ma ·heard obeyed· that I lifted up my voice and cried, he left his garment by me, and ran outside.” 
She laid up his garment by her, until his master came home. 
She spoke to him according to these words, saying, “The Hebrew Immigrant servant, whom you have brought to us, came in to me to mock me, 
and as I lifted up my voice and cried, he left his garment by me, and ran outside.” 
When his master sh'ma ·heard obeyed· the words of his wife, which she spoke to him, saying, “This is what your servant did to me,” his wrath was kindled. 
Joseph May he add’s master took him, and put him into the prison, the place where the king’s prisoners were bound, and he was there in custody. 
But Adonai was with Joseph May he add, and showed cheshed ·loving-kindness· to him, and gave him chen ·grace· in the sight of the keeper of the prison. 
The keeper of the prison committed to Joseph May he add’s hand all the prisoners who were in the prison. Whatever they did there, he was responsible for it. 
The keeper of the prison didn’t look after anything that was under his hand, because Adonai was with him; and that which he did, Adonai made it prosper. 
