Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 17.
When Avram Exalted father was ninety-nine years old, Adonai appeared to Avram Exalted father, and said to him, “I am El Shaddai God Almighty. Walk before me, and be blameless. 
I will make my covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties· between me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly.” 
Avram Exalted father fell on his face. God talked with him, saying, 
“As for me, behold, my covenant is with you. You will be the father of a multitude of nations. 
Your name will no more be called Avram Exalted father, but your name will be Abraham Father of a multitude; for I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. 
I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make nations of you. Kings will come out of you. (7) 
I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God to you and to your offspring after you. 
I will give to you, and to your offspring after you, the land where you are traveling, all the land of Canaan Humbled, for an everlasting possession. I will be their God.” 
God said to Abraham Father of a multitude, “As for you, you will keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. 
This is my covenant, which you shall keep, between me and you and your offspring after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised. 
You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin. It will be a token of the covenant between me and you. 
He who is eight days old will be circumcised among you, every male throughout all your generations, he who is born in the house, or bought with money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring. 
He who is born in your house, and he who is bought with your money, must be circumcised. My covenant will be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. 
The uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that soul shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties·.” 
God said to Abraham Father of a multitude, “As for Sarai Mockery your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai Mockery, but her name will be Sarah Princess. 
I will bless her, and moreover I will give you a son by her. Yes, I will bless her, and she will be a mother of nations. Kings of peoples will come from her.” 
Then Abraham Father of a multitude fell on his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, “Will a child be born to him who is one hundred years old? Will Sarah Princess, who is ninety years old, give birth?” 
Abraham Father of a multitude said to God, “Oh that Ishmael Pays attention God might live before you!” 
God said, “No, but Sarah Princess, your wife, will bear you a son. You shall call his name Isaac Laughter. I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties· for his offspring after him. 
As for Ishmael Pays attention God, I have sh'ma ·heard obeyed· you. Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly. He will become the father of twelve princes, and I will make him a great nation. 
But my covenant I establish with Isaac Laughter, whom Sarah Princess will bear to you at this set time next year.” 
When he finished talking with him, the kavod Yahweh ·weighty glory of He sustains breathing· went up from Abraham Father of a multitude. 
Abraham Father of a multitude took Ishmael Pays attention God his son, all who were born in his house, and all who were bought with his money; every male among the men of Abraham Father of a multitude’s house, and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the same day, as God had said to him. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
Abraham Father of a multitude was ninety-nine years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. 
Ishmael Pays attention God, his son, was thirteen years old when he circumcised the flesh of his foreskin. 
In the same day both Abraham Father of a multitude and Ishmael Pays attention God, his son, were circumcised. 
All the men of his house, those born in the house, and those bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him. 
