Isaiah / Yesha'yahu.
Chapter 53.
Who has believed our message? To whom has the arm of Adonai been revealed? 
For he grew up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of dry ground. He has no good looks or majesty. When we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. 
He was despised, and rejected by men; a man of suffering, and acquainted with disease. He was despised as one from whom men hide their face; and we didn’t respect him. 
Surely he has borne our sickness, and carried our suffering; yet we considered him plagued, struck by God, and afflicted. 
But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought our peace was on him; and by his stripes and wounds we are healed and made whole. 
All we like sheep have gone astray. Everyone has turned to his own way; and Adonai has laid on him the iniquity of us all. 
He was oppressed, yet when he was afflicted he didn’t open his mouth. As a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and as a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he didn’t open his mouth. 
After forcible arrest and sentencing, he was taken away; and none of his generation protested his being cut off out of the land of the living for the crimes of my people, who deserved the punishment themselves. 
They made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death; although he had done no violence, nor was any deceit in his mouth. 
Yet it pleased Adonai to bruise him. He has caused him to suffer. To see if he would present himself as a guilt offering. If he does, he will see his offspring, and he will prolong his days, and Adonai ’s pleasure will prosper in his hand. 
After this ordeal, he will see satisfaction “By his knowing pain and sacrifice. My righteous servant will justify many; for it is their sins that he suffers. 
Therefore will I give him a portion with the great, and he will divide the spoils with the strong; because he exposed himself to death, and was counted with the transgressors; while actually bearing the sin of many, and interceding for the offenders. 
