Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 2.
The heavens, the earth, and all their vast array were finished. 
On the seventh 'yom ·period of time, day· God finished his work which he had done; and he shavat ·rested· on the seventh day from all his work which he had done. 
God blessed the seventh day, and made it set apart holy, because he rested in it from all his work of barah' ·creation from nothingness· which he had done. (A:4, S:2) 
This is the history of the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created. On the day that Adonai God made earth and heaven, 
no plant of the field was yet in the earth, and no herb of the field had yet sprung up; for Adonai God had not caused it to rain on the earth. There was no human to till the ground, 
but a mist went up from the earth, and watered the whole surface of the ground. 
Adonai God formed and framed a human from the dust of ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breaths of lives; and man became a living soul. 
Adonai God planted a garden eastward, in Eden Delight, and there he put the man whom he had formed. 
Out of the ground Adonai God made every tree to grow that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food, including the 'etz chai ·tree of life· in the middle of the garden and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. 
A river went out of Eden Delight to water the garden; and from there it was parted, and became the source of four rivers. 
The name of the first is Pishon: it flows through the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold; 
and the gold of that land is good. Bdellium and onyx stone are also there. 
The name of the second river is Gihon. It is the same river that flows through the whole land of Cush. 
The name of the third river is Hiddekel. This is the one which flows in front of Assyria Level plain. The fourth river is the Euphrates Fruitful. 
Adonai God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden Delight to cultivate and keep it. 
Adonai God enjoined the man, saying, “You may freely eat of every tree of the garden; 
but you shall not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil; for in the day that you eat of it, you will surely have death.” 
Adonai God said, “It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a help-mate suitable for him.” 
Out of the ground Adonai God formed every animal of the field, and every bird of the sky, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. Whatever the man called every living creature became its name. (S:3) 
The man gave names to all livestock, and to the birds of the sky, and to every animal of the field; but for man there was not found a helper suitable for him. 
Adonai God caused the man to fall into a deep sleep. As the man slept, he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in its place. 
Adonai God refined and fashioned an 'ishah ·wife woman· from the rib which had taken from the man, and brought her to the man. 
The man said, “This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She will be called ‘'ishah ·wife woman·,’ because she was taken out of 'ish ·husband man·.” 
Therefore a husband man will leave his father and his mother, and will dabak ·cling to, worship· with his wife woman, and they will be echad ·one· flesh. 
The husband man and his wife woman were both naked, and they were not ashamed. 
