Exodus / Sh'mot.
Chapter 34.
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Chisel two stone tablets like the first: and I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke. 
Be ready by the morning, and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai Thorn, and present yourself there to me on the top of the mountain. 
No one shall come up with you or be seen anywhere on the mountain. Do not let the flocks or herds graze in front of that mountain.” 
He chiseled two tablets of stone like the first; and Moses Drawn out rose up early in the morning, and went up to Mount Sinai Thorn, as Adonai had enjoined him, and took in his hand two stone tablets. 
Adonai descended in the cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed Adonai ’s name. 
Adonai passed by before him, and proclaimed, “Yud-Hey-Vav-Hey! Yahweh a merciful and gracious God, slow to anger, and abundant in cheshed ·loving-kindness· and truth, 
keeping cheshed ·loving-kindness· for thousands, forgiving iniquity and disobedience and sin; and that will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, and on the children’s children, on the third and on the fourth generation.” 
Moses Drawn out hurried and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshiped. 
He said, “If now I have found chen ·grace· in your sight, Lord, please let the Lord go among us; although this is a stiff-necked people; pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for your inheritance.” (6) 
He said, “Behold, I make a covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties·: before all your people I will do marvels, such as have not been worked in all the earth, nor in any nation; and all the people among which you are shall see the work of Adonai ; for it is an awesome thing that I do with you. 
Observe that which I enjoin you today. Behold, I divorce from before you the Amorite Descendants of Talkers, the Canaanite Descendant of Humbled, the Hittite Descendant of Trembling fear, the Perizzite Descendant of Belonging to village, the Hivite Wicked, and the Jebusite Descendants of Thresher. 
Be careful, lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land where you are going, lest it be for a snare in the middle of you: 
but you shall break down their altars, and dash in pieces their pillars, and you shall cut down their Asherah poles; 
for you shall hawa ·bow low, prostrate· to worship no other deity: for Adonai , whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God. 
“Don’t make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, lest they play the prostitute after their deities, and sacrifice to their deities, and one call you and you eat of his sacrifice; 
and you take of their daughters to your sons, and their daughters play the prostitute after their deities, and make your sons play the prostitute after their deities. 
“You shall make no molten elohim ·deities· for yourselves. 
“You shall keep the festival of Matzah ·Unleavened bread·. Seven days you shall eat matzah ·unleavened bread·, as I enjoined you, at the time appointed in the month Abib; for in the month Abib you came out of Egypt Abode of slavery. 
“All that opens the womb is mine; and all your livestock that is male, the firstborn of cow and sheep. 
You shall redeem the firstborn of a donkey with a lamb. If you will not redeem it, then you shall break its neck. You shall redeem all the firstborn of your sons. No one shall appear before me empty. 
“Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest: in plowing time and in harvest you shall rest. 
“You shall observe the festival of Shavu'ot ·Weeks· / Pentacost ·Fifty· with the first fruits of wheat harvest, and the festival of in-gathering at the turn of the year. 
Three times in the year all your males shall appear before the Lord Yahweh, Elohim Isra'el He sustains breathing, God of God prevails. 
For I will drive out nations before you and enlarge your borders; neither shall any man desire your land when you go up to appear before Adonai , your God, three times in the year. 
“You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread. The sacrifice of the festival of the Pesac ·Passover· shall not be left to the morning. 
“You shall bring the first of the first fruits of your ground to the house of Adonai your God. “You shall not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk fat.” (7) 
Adonai said to Moses Drawn out, “Write you these words: for in accordance with these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel God prevails.” 
He was there with Adonai forty days and forty nights; he neither ate bread, nor drank water. He wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the Ten Words. 
When Moses Drawn out came down from Mount Sinai Thorn with the two tablets of the testimony in Moses Drawn out’ hand, when he came down from the mountain, Moses Drawn out didn’t know that the skin of his face shone by reason of his speaking with him. 
When Aaron Light-bringer and all the children of Israel God prevails saw Moses Drawn out, behold, the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come near him. 
Moses Drawn out called to them, and Aaron Light-bringer and all the rulers of the congregation teshuvah ·completely returned· to him; and Moses Drawn out spoke to them. 
Afterward all the children of Israel God prevails came near, and he enjoined to them all that Adonai had spoken with him on Mount Sinai Thorn. (Maftir ·Conclusion·) 
When Moses Drawn out was done speaking with them, he put a veil on his face. 
But when Moses Drawn out went in before Adonai to speak with him, he removed the veil, until he came out; and he came out, and spoke to the children of Israel God prevails that which he was enjoined. 
The children of Israel God prevails saw Moses Drawn out’ face, that the skin of Moses Drawn out’ face shone: and Moses Drawn out put the veil on his face again, until he went in to speak with him. 
