Leviticus / Vayikra.
Chapter 3.
“‘If his offering is a sacrifice of peace offerings; if he offers it from the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it without defect before Adonai . 
He shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it at the door of the Tent of Meeting: and Aaron Light-bringer’s sons, the priests, shall sprinkle the blood around on the altar. 
He shall offer of the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering made by fire to Adonai ; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards, 
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away. 
Aaron Light-bringer’s sons shall burn it on the altar on the burnt offering, which is on the wood that is on the fire: it is an offering made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Adonai . 
“‘If his offering for a sacrifice of peace offerings to Adonai is from the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without defect. 
If he offers a lamb for his offering, then he shall offer it before Adonai ; 
and he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it before the Tent of Meeting: and Aaron Light-bringer’s sons shall sprinkle its blood around on the altar. 
He shall offer from the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering made by fire to Adonai ; its fat, the entire tail fat, he shall take away close to the backbone; and the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards, 
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away. 
The priest shall burn it on the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire to Adonai . 
“‘If his offering is a goat, then he shall offer it before Adonai : 
and he shall lay his hand on its head, and kill it before the Tent of Meeting; and the sons of Aaron Light-bringer shall sprinkle its blood around on the altar. 
He shall offer from it as his offering, an offering made by fire to Adonai ; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards, 
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away. 
The priest shall burn them on the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire, for a pleasant aroma; all the fat is Adonai ’s. 
“‘It shall be a perpetual regulation throughout all your generations in all your dwellings, that you shall eat neither fat nor blood.’” 
