The Good News Recorded by Luke [White-light].
Chapter 1.
Since many have undertaken to set in order a narrative concerning those matters which have been fulfilled among us, 
even as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and servants of the word delivered them to us, 
it seemed good to me also, having traced the course of all things accurately from the first, to write to you in order, most excellent Theophilus God friend; 
that you might know the certainty concerning the things in which you were instructed. 
There was in the days of Herod Heroic, the king of Judea Praise, a certain priest named Zacharias Remembered by Yah, of the priestly division of Abiyah My father Yah. He had a wife of the daughters of Aaron Light-bringer, and her name was Elizabeth My God oath. 
They were both upright before God, observing all the mitzvot ·instructions· and ordinances of Yahweh blamelessly. 
But they had no child, because Elizabeth My God oath was barren, and they both were well advanced in years. 
Now while he served in the priest’s office before God in the order of his priestly division, 
according to the custom of the priest’s office, his lot was to enter into the temple of Yahweh and burn incense (as the Cohen Gadol ·High Priest· on Yom Kippur ·Day of Atonement·. On the 7th month of Ethanim on the 10th day). 
All the people were outside, praying, at the time of the incense burning, 
when there appeared to him an angel of MarYah Master Yahweh, standing on the right side of the altar of incense. 
Zacharias Remembered by Yah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. 
But the angel said to him, “Don’t be afraid, Zacharias Remembered by Yah, because your request has been heard, and your wife, Elizabeth My God oath, will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John Yah is gracious. 
You will have joy and gladness; and many will rejoice at his birth. 
For he will be great in the sight of MarYah Master Yahweh, and he will drink no wine nor strong drink. He will be filled with Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness, even from his mother’s womb. 
He will turn many of the children of to MarYah Master Yahweh, their God. 
He will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah My God Yah, ‘to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children,’ and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to prepare a people prepared for Adonai .” 
Zacharias Remembered by Yah said to the angel, “How can I be sure of this? For I am an old man, and my wife is well advanced in years.” 
The angel answered him, “I am Gabriel Man of God, who stands in the presence of God. I was sent to speak to you, and to bring you this good news. 
Behold, you will be silent and not able to speak, until the day that these things will happen, because you didn’t believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their proper time.” 
The people were waiting for Zacharias Remembered by Yah, and they marveled that he delayed in the temple. 
When he came out, he could not speak to them, and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple. He continued making signs to them, and remained mute. 
When the days of his service were fulfilled, he departed to his house. 
After these days Elizabeth My God oath, his wife, conceived, and she hid herself five months, saying, 
“Thus has MarYah Master Yahweh done to me in the days in which he looked at me, to take away my reproach among men.” 
Now in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel Man of God was sent from God to a city of Galilee District, Circuit, named Nazareth Branch, Separated one, 
to a virgin pledged to be married to a man whose name was Joseph May he add, of David Beloved’s house. The virgin’s name was Mary Rebellion. 
Having come in, the angel said to her, “Shalom ·Complete peace·, favored lady! Adonai is with you. Blessed are you among women!” 
But when she saw him, she was greatly troubled at the saying, and considered what kind of salutation this might be. 
The angel said to her, “Don’t be afraid, Mary Rebellion, for you have found favor with God. 
Behold, you will conceive in your womb, and give birth to a son, and will call his name ‘Yeshua Salvation.’ 
He will be great, and will be called haBen haElohim Chayim the Son of the God Living. MarYah Master Yahweh God will give him the throne of his forefather, David Beloved, 
and he will reign over the house of Jacob Supplanter forever. There will be no end to his Kingdom.” 
Mary Rebellion said to the angel, “How can this be, seeing I am a virgin?” 
The angel answered her, “The Ruach Kodesh Holy Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Elyon Most High will overshadow you. Therefore also the holy one who is born from you will be called the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·. 
Behold, Elizabeth My God oath, your relative, also has conceived a son in her old age; and this is the sixth month with her who was called barren. 
For nothing spoken by God is impossible.” 
Mary Rebellion said, “Behold, the servant of MarYah Master Yahweh; let it be done to me according to your word.” The angel departed from her. 
Mary Rebellion arose in those days and went into the hill country with haste, into a city of Judah Praised, 
and entered into the house of Zacharias Remembered by Yah and greeted Elizabeth My God oath. 
When Elizabeth My God oath heard Mary Rebellion’s greeting, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth My God oath was filled with Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness. 
She called out with a loud voice, and said, “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb! 
Why am I so favored, that the mother of my Lord should come to me? 
For behold, when the voice of your greeting came into my ears, the baby leaped in my womb for joy! 
Blessed is she who believed, for there will be a fulfillment of the things which have been spoken to her from MarYah Master Yahweh!” 
Mary Rebellion said, “My soul magnifies Adonai . 
My spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior, 
for he has looked at the humble state of his servant. For behold, from now on, all generations will call me blessed. 
For he who is mighty has done great things for me. Holy is his name. 
And in every generation, he has eleos ·merciful compassion in action· on those who fear him. 
He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. 
He has put down princes from their thrones. And has exalted the lowly. 
He has filled the hungry with good things. He has sent the rich away empty. 
He has given help to Israel God prevails, his servant, that he might remember eleos ·merciful compassion in action·, 
As he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham Father of a multitude and his offspring forever.” 
Mary Rebellion stayed with her about three months, and then teshuvah ·completely returned· to her house. 
Now the time that Elizabeth My God oath should give birth was fulfilled, and she gave birth to a son. 
Her neighbors and her relatives heard that Adonai had magnified his eleos ·merciful compassion in action· towards her, and they rejoiced with her. 
On the eighth day, they came to circumcise the child; and they would have called him Zacharias Remembered by Yah, after the name of his father. 
His mother answered, “Not so; but he will be called John Yah is gracious.” 
They said to her, “There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name.” 
They made signs to his father, what he would have him called. 
He asked for a writing tablet, and wrote, “His name is John Yah is gracious.” They all marveled. 
His mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue freed, and he spoke, blessing God. 
Fear came on all who lived around them, and all these sayings were talked about throughout all the hill country of Judea Praise. 
All who heard them laid them up in their heart, saying, “What then will this child be?” The hand of MarYah Master Yahweh was with him. 
His father, Zacharias Remembered by Yah, was filled with Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness, and prophesied, saying, 
“Blessed be MarYah Master Yahweh, the God of Israel God prevails, for he has visited and redeemed his people; 
and has raised up a horn of yishu'ah ·salvation· for us in the house of his servant David Beloved 
(as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets who have been from of old), 
yishu'ah ·salvation· from our enemies, and from the hand of all who hate us; 
to show eleos ·merciful compassion in action· towards our fathers, to remember his holy covenant ·binding contract between two or more parties·, 
the covenant oath which he swore to Abraham Father of a multitude, Avinu ·our Father·, 
to grant to us that we, being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, should serve him without fear, 
In holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. 
And you, child, will be called a prophet of the Elyon Most High, for you will go before the face of Yahweh to prepare his ways, 
to give knowledge of yishu'ah ·salvation· to his people by the remission of their sins, 
because of the tender eleos ·merciful compassion in action· of our God, whereby the dawn from on high will visit us, 
to shine on those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death; to guide our feet into the way of peace.” 
The child was growing, and becoming strong in spirit, and was in the desert until the day of his public appearance to Israel God prevails. 
