John [Yah is gracious].
Chapter 10.
“Most certainly, I tell you, one who does not enter by the door into the sheep fold, but climbs up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. 
But one who enters in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 
The gatekeeper opens the gate for him, and the sheep listen to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out. 
Whenever he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. 
They will by no means follow a stranger, but will flee from him; for they don’t know the voice of strangers.” 
Yeshua Salvation spoke this parable to them, but they didn’t understand what he was telling them. 
Yeshua Salvation therefore said to them again, “Most certainly, I tell you, Ena Na I AM (the Living God) the sheep’s door. 
All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep didn’t listen to them. 
Ena Na I AM (the Living God) the door. If anyone enters in by me, he will be saved, and will go in and go out, and will find pasture. 
The thief only comes to steal, kill, and destroy. I came that they may have life, and may have it abundantly. 
Ena Na I AM (the Living God) the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. 
He who is a hired hand, and not a shepherd, who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming, leaves the sheep, and flees. The wolf snatches the sheep, and scatters them. 
The hired hand flees because he is a hired hand, and does not care for the sheep. 
Ena Na I AM (the Living God) the good shepherd. I know my own, and I’m known by my own; 
even as Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad· knows me, and I know Abba Father. I lay down my life for the sheep. 
I have other sheep, which are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will hear my voice. They will become one flock with one shepherd. 
For this reason haAbba ·the Father· has agapao ·total devotion love· unto me, because I lay down my life so that I may take it again. 
No one takes it away from me, but I lay it down by myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. I received this commandment from 'Avi ·my Father·.” 
Therefore a division arose again among the Jews Praisers because of these words. 
Many of them said, “He has a demon, and is insane! Why do you listen to him?” 
Others said, “These are not the sayings of one possessed by a demon. It is not possible for a demon to open the eyes of the blind, is it?” 
Then came the Festival of Chanukah ·Dedication· at Jerusalem City of peace. (This occurs in the ninth month 25th day to tenth month 2nd day). 
It was winter, and Yeshua Salvation was walking in the temple, in Solomon Peaceable, Recompense’s portico (where one can see the four giant menorahs). 
The Jews Praisers therefore came around him and said to him, “How long will you hold us in suspense? If you are the Messiah Anointed one, tell us plainly.” 
Yeshua Salvation answered them, “I told you, and you don’t believe. The works that I do in 'Avi ·my Father·’s name, these testify about me. 
But you don’t believe, because you are not of my sheep, as I told you. 
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. 
I give eternal life to them. They will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. 
'Avi My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all. No one is able to snatch them out of 'Avi ·my Father·’s hand. 
I and Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad· are one.” 
Therefore Jews Praisers took up stones again to stone him. 
Yeshua Salvation answered them, “I have shown you many good works from 'Avi ·my Father·. For which of those works do you stone me?” 
The Jews Praisers answered him, “We don’t stone you for a good work, but for blasphemy: because you, being a man, make yourself God.” 
Yeshua Salvation answered them, “Is not it written in your Torah ·Teaching·, ‘I said, you are elohim ·judges, gods·?’ 
If he called the people 'elohim' ·judges, gods·, to whom the word of Elohim ·God· came (and the Scripture can’t be broken), 
do you say of him whom haAbba ·the Father· sanctified and sent into the world, ‘You blaspheme,’ because I said, ‘I am the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·?’ 
If I don’t do the works of 'Avi ·my Father·, don’t believe me. 
But if I do them, though you don’t believe me, believe the works; that you may know and believe that haAbba ·the Father· is in me, and I in Abba Father.” 
They sought again to seize him, and he went out of their hand. 
He went away again beyond the Jordan Descender into the place where John Yah is gracious was baptizing at first, and there he stayed. 
Many came to him. They said, “John Yah is gracious indeed did no sign, but everything that John Yah is gracious said about this man is true.” 
Many believed in him there. 
