John [Yah is gracious].
Chapter 19.
So Pilate Armed with javelin then took Yeshua Salvation, and flogged him. 
The soldiers twisted thorns into a crown, and put it on his head, and dressed him in a purple garment. 
They kept saying, “Hail, King of the Jews Praisers!” and they kept slapping him. 
Then Pilate Armed with javelin went out again, and said to them, “Behold, I bring him out to you, that you may know that I find no basis for a charge against him.” 
Yeshua Salvation therefore came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple garment. Pilate Armed with javelin said to them, “Behold, the man!” 
When therefore the chief priests and the officers saw him, they shouted, saying, “Crucify! Crucify!” Pilate Armed with javelin said to them, “Take him yourselves, and crucify him, for I find no basis for a charge against him.” 
The Jews answered him, “We have a law (of God), and by our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Ben-Elohim ·Son of Elohim God·.” 
When therefore Pilate Armed with javelin heard this saying, he was more afraid. 
He entered into the Praetorium again, and said to Yeshua Salvation, “Where are you from?” But Yeshua Salvation gave him no answer. 
Pilate Armed with javelin therefore said to him, “Are not you speaking to me? Don’t you know that I have power to release you, and have power to crucify you?” 
Yeshua Salvation answered, “You would have no power at all against me, unless it were given to you from above. Therefore he who delivered me to you has greater sin.” 
At this, Pilate Armed with javelin was seeking to release him, but the Jews Praisers cried out, saying, “If you release this man, you are not Caesar’s Ruler’s friend! Everyone who makes himself a king speaks against Caesar Ruler!” 
When Pilate Armed with javelin therefore heard these words, he brought Yeshua Salvation out, and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called “The Pavement,” but in Hebrew Immigrant, “Gabbatha.” 
Now it was the Preparation Day for Pesac ·Passover· (Nissan 14), at about three o'clock in the afternoon. He said to the Jews Praisers, “Behold, your King!” 
They cried out, “Away with him! Away with him! Crucify him!” Pilate Armed with javelin said to them, “Shall I crucify your King?” The chief priests answered, “We have no king but Caesar Ruler!” 
So then he delivered him to them to be nailed to the execution-stake. So they took Yeshua Salvation and led him away. 
He went out, bearing his execution-stake, to the place called “Skull,” which is called in Hebrew Immigrant, “Golgotha Place of skull,” 
where they nailed him to the stake, and with him two others, on either side one, and Yeshua Salvation in the middle. 
Pilate Armed with javelin wrote a title also, and put it on the execution-stake. There was written, “Yeshua of nazareth Salvation of Branch, Separated one, The King of The Jews Praisers .” 
Therefore many of the Jews Praisers read this title, for the place where Yeshua Salvation was executed on the stake was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew Immigrant, in Latin, and in Greek. 
The chief priests of the Jews Praisers therefore said to Pilate Armed with javelin, “Don’t write, ‘The King of the Jews Praisers,’ but, ‘he said, I am King of the Jews Praisers.’” 
Pilate Armed with javelin answered, “What I have written, I have written.” 
Then the soldiers, when they had nailed Yeshua Salvation to the stake, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also the coat. Now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. 
Then they said to one another, “Let’s not tear it, but cast lots for it to decide whose it will be,” that the Scripture might be fulfilled, which says, “They divided my garments among them. For my cloak they cast lots.” Therefore the soldiers did these things. 
But there were standing by the execution-stake of Yeshua Salvation his mother, and his mother’s sister, Mary Rebellion the wife of Clopas, and Mary of Magdala Rebellion of City tower. 
Therefore when Yeshua Salvation saw his mother, and the disciple whom he felt agapao ·totally devoted love· for standing there, he said to his mother, “Woman, behold, your son!” 
Then he said to the disciple, “Behold, your mother!” From that hour, the disciple took her to his own home. 
After this, Yeshua Salvation, seeing that all things were now finished, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, said, “I am thirsty.” 
Now a vessel full of vinegar was set; so they put a sponge full of the vinegar on hyssop, and held it at his mouth. 
When Yeshua Salvation therefore had received the vinegar, he said, “It is finished.” He bowed his head, and gave up his spirit. 
Therefore the Jews Praisers, because it was the Preparation Day (Nissan 14), so that the bodies would not remain on the execution-stake on the festival Sabbath ·To cease· (for that Sabbath ·To cease· was a special one), asked of Pilate Armed with javelin that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. 
Therefore the soldiers came, and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who was placed on execution-stakes with him; 
but when they came to Yeshua Salvation, and saw that he was already dead, they didn’t break his legs. 
However one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out. 
He who has seen has testified, and his testimony is trutheree. He knows that he tells the truth, that you may believe. 
For these things happened, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, “Not one of his bones will be broken.” 
Again another Scripture says, “They will look on him whom they pierced.” 
After these things, Joseph May he add of Arimathaea May he add of Lofty place, being a disciple of Yeshua Salvation, but secretly for fear of the Jews Praisers, asked of Pilate Armed with javelin that he might take away Yeshua Salvation's body. Pilate Armed with javelin gave him permission. He came therefore and took away his body. 
Nicodemus Victory people, who at first came to Yeshua Salvation by night, also came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred Roman Person from Town of flowing waters pounds. 
So they took Yeshua Salvation's body, and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as the custom of the Jews Praisers is to bury. 
Now in the place where he was executed on the stake there was a garden. In the garden was a new tomb in which no man had ever yet been laid. 
Then because of the Judean Person from Praise Preparation Day (Nissan 14) (for the tomb was near at hand) they laid Yeshua Salvation there. 
