Numbers / B'midbar.
Chapter 13.
Adonai spoke to Moses Drawn out, saying, 
“Send men on your behalf, that they may spy out the land of Canaan Humbled, which I give to the children of Israel God prevails. Of every tribe of their fathers, you shall send a man, every one a prince among them.” 
Moses Drawn out sent them from the wilderness of Paran according to the order of Adonai . All them were men who were heads of the children of Israel God prevails. 
These were their names: Of the tribe of Reuben See, a son!, Shammua the son of Zaccur. 
Of the tribe of Simeon Hearing, Shaphat the son of Hori. 
Of the tribe of Judah Praised, Caleb the son of Jephunneh. 
Of the tribe of Issachar Hire, Reward, Igal the son of Joseph May he add. 
Of the tribe of Ephraim Fruit, Hoshea Yah save the son of Nun. 
Of the tribe of Benjamin Son of right hand, Son of south, Palti the son of Raphu. 
Of the tribe of Zebulun Living together, Gaddiel the son of Sodi. 
Of the tribe of Joseph May he add, of the tribe of Manasseh Causing to forget, Gaddi the son of Susi. 
Of the tribe of Dan He judged, Ammiel the son of Gemalli. 
Of the tribe of Asher Happy, Sethur the son of Michael Who is like God. 
Of the tribe of Naphtali My wrestling, Nahbi the son of Vophsi. 
Of the tribe of Gad Good fortune, Geuel the son of Machi. 
These are the names of the men who Moses Drawn out sent to spy out the land. Moses Drawn out called Hoshea Yah save the son of Nun, who Moses Drawn out renamed Joshua Salvation Yah. 
Moses Drawn out sent them to spy out the land of Canaan Humbled, and said to them, “Go up this way by the South, and go up into the hill country. 
See the land, what it is; and the people who dwell therein, whether they are strong or weak, whether they are few or many; 
and what the land is that they dwell in, whether it is good or bad; and what cities they are that they dwell in, whether in camps, or in strongholds; 
and what the land is, whether it is fat or lean, whether there is wood therein, or not. Be courageous, and bring some of the fruit of the land.” Now the time was the time of the first-ripe grapes. (2) 
So they went up, and spied out the land from the wilderness of Zin to Rehob, to the entrance of Hamath. 
They went up by the South, and came to Hebron; and Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, were there. (Now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt Abode of slavery.) 
They came to the valley of Eshcol, and cut down from there a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bore it on a staff between two. They also brought some of the pomegranates and figs. 
That place was called the valley of Eshcol, because of the cluster which the children of Israel God prevails cut down from there. 
They teshuvah ·completely returned· from spying out the land at the end of forty days. 
They went and came to Moses Drawn out, to Aaron Light-bringer, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel God prevails, to the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and brought back word to them and to all the congregation. They showed them the fruit of the land. 
They told him, and said, “We came to the land where you sent us. Surely it flows with milk and honey, and this is its fruit. 
However the people who dwell in the land are strong, and the cities are fortified and very large. Moreover, we saw the children of Anak there. 
Amalek Man who licks up dwells in the land of the South. The Hittite Descendant of Trembling fear, the Jebusite Descendants of Thresher, and the Amorite Descendants of Talkers dwell in the hill country. The Canaanite Descendant of Humbled dwells by the sea, and along the side of the Jordan Descender.” 
Caleb stilled the people before Moses Drawn out, and said, “Let us go up at once, and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it!” 
But the men who went up with him said, “We are not able to go up against the people; for they are stronger than we.” 
They brought up an evil report of the land which they had spied out to the children of Israel God prevails, saying, “The land, through which we have gone to spy it out, is a land that eats up its inhabitants; and all the people who we saw in it are men of great stature. 
There we saw the Nephilim, the sons of Anak, who come from the Nephilim. We were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight.” 
