Luke [White-light].
Chapter 23.
The whole company of them rose up and brought him before Pilate Armed with javelin. 
They began to accuse him, saying, “We found this man perverting the nation, forbidding paying taxes to Caesar Ruler, and saying that he himself is Messiah Anointed one, a king.” 
Pilate Armed with javelin asked him, “Are you the King of the Jews Praisers?” He answered him, “So you say.” 
Pilate Armed with javelin said to the chief priests and the multitudes, “I find no basis for a charge against this man.” 
But they insisted, saying, “He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea Praise, beginning from Galilee District, Circuit even to this place.” 
But when Pilate Armed with javelin heard Galilee District, Circuit mentioned, he asked if the man was a Galilean. 
When he found out that he was in Herod Heroic’s jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod Heroic, who was also in Jerusalem City of peace during those days. 
Now when Herod Heroic saw Yeshua Salvation, he was exceedingly glad, for he had wanted to see him for a long time, because he had heard many things about him. He hoped to see some miracle done by him. 
He questioned him with many words, but he gave no answers. 
The chief priests and the Torah-Teachers stood, vehemently accusing him. 
Herod Heroic with his soldiers humiliated him and mocked him. Dressing him in luxurious clothing, they sent him back to Pilate Armed with javelin. 
Herod Heroic and Pilate Armed with javelin became friends with each other that very day, for before that they were enemies with each other. 
Pilate Armed with javelin called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, 
and said to them, “You brought this man to me as one that perverts the people, and see, I have examined him before you, and found no basis for a charge against this man concerning those things of which you accuse him. 
Neither has Herod Heroic, for I sent you to him, and see, nothing worthy of death has been done by him. 
I will therefore chastise him and release him.” 
Now he had to release one prisoner to them at the feast. 
But they all cried out together, saying, “Away with this man! Release to us Bar-Abba Son Father!”— 
one who was thrown into prison for a certain revolt in the city, and for murder. 
Then Pilate Armed with javelin spoke to them again, wanting to release Yeshua Salvation, 
but they shouted, saying, “Crucify! Crucify him!” 
He said to them the third time, “Why? What evil has this man done? I have found no capital crime in him. I will therefore chastise him and release him.” 
But they were urgent with loud voices, asking that he might be put to death on the stake. Their voices and the voices of the chief priests prevailed. 
Pilate Armed with javelin decreed that what they asked for should be done. 
He released him who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, for whom they asked, but he delivered Yeshua Salvation up to their will. 
When they led him away, they grabbed one Simeon Hearing of Cyrene, coming from the country, and laid on him the execution-stake, to carry it after Yeshua Salvation. 
A great multitude of the people followed him, including women who also mourned and lamented him. 
But Yeshua Salvation, turning to them, said, “Daughters of Jerusalem City of peace, don’t weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. 
For behold, the days are coming in which they will say, ‘Blessed are the barren, the wombs that never bore, and the breasts that never nursed.’ 
Then they will begin to tell the mountains, ‘Fall on us!’ and tell the hills, ‘Cover us.’ 
For if they do these things in the green tree, what will be done in the dry?” 
There were also others, two criminals, led with him to be put to death. 
When they came to the place that is called The Skull, they nailed him to a stake; and they nailed the criminals to stakes, one on the right and the other on the left. 
Yeshua Salvation said, “ Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad·, forgive them, for they don’t know what they are doing.” They divided up his clothes by casting lots. 
The people stood watching. The rulers with them also scoffed at him, saying, “He saved others. Let him save himself, if this is the Messiah Anointed one of God, his chosen one!” 
The soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, 
and saying, “If you are the King of the Jews Praisers, save yourself!” 
An inscription was also written over him in letters of Greek, Latin, and Hebrew Immigrant: “This Is The King of The Jews Praisers .” 
One of the criminals who was hanged insulted him, saying, “If you are the Messiah Anointed one, save yourself and us!” 
But the other answered, and rebuking him said, “Don’t you even fear God, seeing you are under the same condemnation? 
And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward for our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong.” 
He said to Yeshua Salvation, “Lord, remember me when you come into your Kingdom.” 
Yeshua Salvation said to him, “Assuredly I tell you, today you will be with me in Paradise, (the righteous side of Sheol.” 
It was now about noon, and darkness came over the whole land until three o'clock in the afternoon. 
The sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was torn in two. 
Yeshua Salvation, crying with a loud voice, said, “ Abba ·Father familiar, Dear Dad·, into your hands I commit my spirit!” Having said this, he breathed his last. 
When the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, “Certainly this was a upright man.” 
All the multitudes that came together to see this, when they saw the things that were done, teshuvah ·completely returned· home beating their breasts. 
All his acquaintances, and the women who followed with him from Galilee District, Circuit, stood at a distance, watching these things. 
Behold, a man named Joseph May he add, who was a member of the council, a good and upright man 
(he had not consented to their counsel and deed), from Arimathaea, a city of the Jews Praisers, who was also waiting for God’s Kingdom: 
this man went to Pilate Armed with javelin, and asked for Yeshua Salvation's body. 
He took it down, and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb that was cut in stone, where no one had ever been laid. 
It was the Preparation Day (Nissan 14), and the festival Sabbath ·To cease· was drawing near. 
The women, who had come with him out of Galilee District, Circuit, followed after, and saw the tomb, and how his body was laid. 
They teshuvah ·completely returned·, and prepared spices and ointments. On the Sabbaths (Nissan 15 and 16) they rested according to the commandment. 
