Deuteronomy / D'varim.
Chapter 6.
Now this is the mitzvot ·instructions·, the statutes, and the judgments, which Adonai your God enjoined to teach you, that you might do them in the land where you go over to possess it; 
that you might fear Adonai your God, to keep all his statutes and his mitzvot ·instructions·, which I enjoin you; you, and your son, and your son’s son, all the days of your life; and that your days may be prolonged. 
Sh'ma ·Hear understand obey· therefore, Israel God prevails, and observe to do it; that it may be well with you, and that you may increase mightily, as Adonai , the God of your fathers, has promised to you, in a land flowing with milk and honey. (A:6, S:5) 
Sh'ma ·Hear obey·, Israel God prevails: Adonai is our God. Adonai is echad ·one, one unity·. 
You shall 'ahav ·affectionately love· Adonai your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might. 
These words, which I enjoin you today, shall be on your heart; 
and you shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up. 
You shall bind them for a sign on your hand, and they shall be for frontlets between your eyes. 
You shall write them on the door posts of your house, and on your gates. (S:6) 
It shall be, when Adonai your God brings you into the land which he swore to your fathers, to Abraham Father of a multitude, to Isaac Laughter, and to Jacob Supplanter, to give you, great and goodly cities, which you didn’t build, 
and houses full of all good things, which you didn’t fill, and cisterns dug out, which you didn’t dig, vineyards and olive trees, which you didn’t plant, and you shall eat and be full; 
then beware lest you forget Adonai , who brought you out of the land of Egypt Abode of slavery, out of the house of bondage. 
You shall fear Adonai your God; and you shall abad ·serve· him, and shall swear by his name. 
You shall not go after other deities, of the deities of the peoples who are around you; 
for Adonai your God among you is a jealous God; lest the anger of Adonai your God be kindled against you, and he destroy you from off the face of the earth. 
You shall not tempt Adonai your God, as you tempted him in Massah Testing. 
You shall diligently keep the mitzvot ·instructions· of Adonai your God, and his testimonies, and his statutes, which he has enjoined you. 
You shall do that which is right and good in Adonai ’s sight; that it may be well with you, and that you may go in and possess the good land which Adonai swore to your fathers, 
to thrust out all your enemies from before you, as Adonai has spoken. 
Some day when your child asks you in time to come, saying, “What do the testimonies, the statutes, and the judgments, which Yahweh Eloheikhem Yahweh our God has enjoined you mean?” 
then you shall tell your child, “We were Pharaoh’s slaves in Egypt Abode of slavery. Adonai brought us out of Egypt Abode of slavery with a mighty hand; 
and Adonai showed great and awesome signs and wonders on Egypt Abode of slavery, on Pharaoh, and on all his house, before our eyes; 
and he brought us out from there, that he might bring us in, to give us the land which he swore to our fathers. 
Adonai enjoined us to do all these statutes, to fear Yahweh Eloheikhem Yahweh our God, for our good always, that he might preserve us alive, as we are today. 
It shall be righteousness to us, if we observe to do all this mitzvot ·instructions· before Yahweh Eloheikhem Yahweh our God, as he has enjoined us.” 
