Matthew [Gift of Yah].
Chapter 28.
Now after the second Sabbath (Nissan 17), it was the first day of the week, (the day of First Fruits #1), and it was starting to dawn, Mary of Magdala Rebellion of City tower and the other Mary Rebellion came to see the tomb. 
Behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of MarYah Master Yahweh descended from the sky, and came and rolled away the stone from the door, and sat on it. 
His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. 
For fear of him, the guards shook, and became like dead men. 
The angel answered the women, “Don’t be afraid, for I know that you seek Yeshua Salvation, who was executed on the stake. 
He is not here, for he has risen, just like he said. Come, see the place where the Lord was lying. 
Go quickly and tell his disciples, ‘He has risen from the dead, and behold, he goes before you into Galilee District, Circuit; there you will see him.’ Behold, I have told you.” 
They departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to bring his disciples word. 
As they went to tell his disciples, behold, Yeshua Salvation met them, saying, “Shalom ·Complete peace·!” They came and took hold of his feet, and worshiped him. 
Then Yeshua Salvation said to them, “Don’t be afraid. Go tell my brothers that they should go into Galilee District, Circuit, and there they will see me.” 
Now while they were going, behold, some of the guards came into the city, and told the chief priests all the things that had happened. 
When they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave a large amount of silver to the soldiers, 
saying, “Say that his disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept. 
If this comes to the governor’s ears, we will persuade him and make you free of worry.” 
So they took the money and did as they were told. This saying was spread abroad among the Jews Praisers, and continues until today. 
But the eleven disciples went into Galilee District, Circuit, to the mountain where Yeshua Salvation had sent them. 
When they saw him, they bowed down to him, but some doubted. 
Yeshua Salvation came to them and spoke to them, saying, “All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. 
Go, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Abba ·Father· and of the Son and of Ruach haKodesh Spirit of the Holiness, 
teaching them to observe all things that I have enjoined unto you. Behold, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.” Amen ·So be it·. 
