Genesis [Origin].
Chapter 14.
In the days of Amraphel, king of Shinar, Arioch, king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer, king of Elam, and Tidal, king of Goiim, 
they made war with Bera, king of Sodom Burning, and with Birsha, king of Gomorrah Rebellious people, Tyrants, Shinab, king of Admah, and Shemeber, king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (also called Zoar Small). 
All these joined together in the valley of Siddim (also called the Salt Sea). 
They served Chedorlaomer for twelve years, and in the thirteenth year, they rebelled. 
In the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer came, and the kings who were with him, and struck the Rephaim Descendants of Terrible one in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the Zuzim in Ham Hot, Intensity, Passion, and the Emim in Shaveh Kiriathaim, 
and the Horites in their Mount Seir, to El Paran, which is by the wilderness. 
They returned, and came to En Mishpat (also called Kadesh), and struck all the country of the Amalekites Descendants of Man who licks up, and also the Amorites Descendants of Talkers, that lived in Hazazon Tamar Palm tree. 
The king of Sodom Burning, and the king of Gomorrah Rebellious people, Tyrants, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (also called Zoar Small) went out; and they set the battle in array against them in the valley of Siddim; 
against Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings against the five. 
Now the valley of Siddim was full of tar pits; and the kings of Sodom Burning and Gomorrah Rebellious people, Tyrants fled, and some fell there, and those who remained fled to the hills. 
They took all the goods of Sodom Burning and Gomorrah Rebellious people, Tyrants, and all their food, and went their way. 
They took Lot Veil, Covering, Avram Exalted father’s brother’s son, who lived in Sodom Burning, and his goods, and departed. 
One who had escaped came and told Avram Exalted father, the Hebrew Immigrant. At that time, he lived by the oaks of Mamre Bitter, Fatness, the Amorite Descendants of Talkers, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner; and they were allies of Avram Exalted father. 
When Avram Exalted father sh'ma ·heard obeyed· that his relative was taken captive, he led out his trained men, born in his house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued as far as Dan He judged. 
He divided himself against them by night, he and his servants, and struck them, and pursued them to Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus Bucket of blood. 
He brought back all the goods, and also brought back his relative, Lot Veil, Covering, and his goods, and the women also, and the other people. 
The king of Sodom Burning went out to meet him after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him, at the valley of Shaveh (that is, the King’s Valley). 
Malki-Tzedek king of Shalem My king Righteousness king of City peace brought out bread and wine. He was a priest of El 'Elyon God Most High, 
so he blessed him saying, “Blessed be Avram Exalted father of El 'Elyon God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth: 
and blessed be El 'Elyon God Most High, who has delivered your enemies into your hand.” Avram Exalted father gave him a tenth of all. (5) 
The king of Sodom Burning said to Avram Exalted father, “Give me the people, and take the goods for yourself.” 
Avram Exalted father said to the king of Sodom Burning, “I have lifted up my hand to Adonai , El 'Elyon God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth, 
that I will not take a thread nor a sandal strap nor anything that is yours, lest you should say, ‘I have made Avram Exalted father rich.’ 
I will accept nothing from you except that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men who went with me: Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre Bitter, Fatness. Let them take their portion.” 
