John.
Chapter 14.
“Do not let your (pl) heart be distressed; you believe into God and you believe into me. 
In my Father's house are many dwellings (otherwise I would have told you). I am going away to prepare a place for you. 
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you to myself, so that where I am you may be also. 
Now you know where I am going, and you know the way.” 
Thomas says to Him, “Lord, we don't know where you are going, so how can we know the way?” 
Jesus says to him: “ I am the Way and the Truth and the Life. No one goes to the Father except through me. 
If you had known me, you would have known my Father as well; from now on you both know Him and have seen Him.” 
Philip says to Him, “Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us.” 
Jesus says to him: “Such a long time I have been with you, and you have not known me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father; so how can you say, ‘Show us the Father’? 
Don't you believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I speak to you I do not speak on my own; rather it is the Father who dwells in me who does the works. 
Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me; or else, believe me because of the works themselves. 
“Most assuredly I say to you, the one believing into me, he too will do the works that I do; in fact he will do greater works than these, because I am going to my Father. 
Further, whatever you (pl) may ask in my name, that I will do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 
If you ask anything in my name, I will do it! 
If you love me, keep my commandments. 
Also, I will ask the Father and He will give you another Enabler, so that He may stay with you throughout the age 
—the Spirit of the Truth, whom the world is unable to receive, because it neither sees Him nor knows Him; but you do know Him, because He is staying with you and will be in you. 
“I will not leave you orphans; I will come to you shortly. 
In a little while the world will no longer see me, but you will see me. Because I live you also will live. 
In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. 
The one who has my commandments and keeps them, he is the one who loves me. Now the one who loves me will be loved by my Father; and I will love him, and reveal myself to him.” 
Judas (not the Iscariot) says to Him, “Lord, just how is it that You are going to reveal Yourself to us and not to the world?” 
Jesus answered and said to him: “If anyone loves me he will keep my word. So my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. 
The one who does not love me does not keep my words; further, the word which you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me. 
“I have spoken these things to you while being with you. 
But the Enabler, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, He will teach you all things and remind you of everything I said to you. 
“Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you; it is not like the world gives that I give to you. Do not let your heart be distressed or intimidated. 
“You heard me say to you, ‘I am going away and I am coming back to you.’ If you loved me you would have been glad that I said, ‘I am going to the Father,’ because my Father is greater than I. 
I have told you now, before it happens, so that when it does happen you may believe. 
“I will no longer talk much with you, because the ruler of the world is approaching; actually, he has nothing in me. 
Rather, I habitually do just as the Father commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. “Get up, let us leave here. 
