Matthew.
Chapter 14.
At that time Herod the tetrarch heard the report about Jesus 
and said to his servants, “This is John the Baptizer; he has been raised from the dead, and therefore the powers are at work in him.” 
For Herod had laid hold of John and bound him, and put him in prison because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife. 
For John would say to him, “It is not lawful for you to have her.” 
And although he wanted to kill him, he feared the crowd, because they counted him as a prophet. 
But while Herod's birthday was being celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced before them and she pleased Herod. 
So he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask. 
So she, having been prompted by her mother, she says, “Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptizer!” 
And the king was sorry; nevertheless, because of the oaths and those who were reclining at the table with him, he commanded it to be given. 
So he sent and had John beheaded in prison. 
And his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. 
Then his disciples came forward and took the body and buried it, and they went and told Jesus. 
Upon hearing it, Jesus departed from there by boat to a deserted place privately. But when the crowds heard it, they followed Him on foot from the towns. 
So when Jesus disembarked He saw a large crowd, and He had compassion on them and healed their sick. 
Now with evening coming on His disciples approached Him saying: “The place is uninhabited and the hour is already late. Dismiss the crowds, that they may go into the villages and buy themselves food.” 
But Jesus said to them: “They do not need to go away. You give them to eat.” 
But they say to Him, “We have nothing here except five loaves and two fish.” 
So He said, “Bring them here to me.” 
Then He commanded the crowds to recline on the grass. And taking the five loaves and two fish and looking up to heaven, He blessed; and breaking the loaves He gave to the disciples, and the disciples to the crowds. 
So they all ate and were filled; and they took up the fragments that remained, twelve baskets full. 
Now those who ate were about five thousand men, besides women and children. 
Immediately Jesus made His disciples get into the boat and go ahead of Him to the other side, while He dismissed the crowds. 
And having dismissed the crowds He went up on the mountain by Himself to pray. So when night came He was alone there. 
But the boat was already in the middle of the sea, being harassed by the waves, for the wind was contrary. 
So in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went to them, walking on the sea. 
And when the disciples saw Him walking on the sea, they became agitated saying, “It's a ghost!” And they cried out for fear. 
But immediately Jesus spoke to them saying: “Courage! It is I; don't be afraid!” 
So in answer Peter said, “Lord, since it's you, command me to come to you on the water.” 
So He said to him, “Come!” And stepping down from the boat Peter walked on the water to go to Jesus. 
But seeing the strong wind he became afraid, and beginning to sink he cried out saying, “Lord, save me!” 
And immediately Jesus reached out His hand and caught him and says to him: “You little-faith! Why did you doubt?” 
And when they got into the boat the wind ceased. 
Then those who were in the boat came and worshiped Him saying, “Truly you are the Son of God!” 
When they had crossed over they came to the land of Genesaret. 
And when the men of that place recognized Him they sent messengers into all that surrounding region and they brought to Him all who were sick. 
And they would beg Him that if only they might at least touch the hem of His garment; and as many as touched were completely healed. 
