2 Timothy.
Chapter 4.
Now then, in the presence of God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who is about to judge both living and dead, with a view to His appearing and His Kingdom, I give you this charge: 
Proclaim the Word; be ready in season and out of season; correct, rebuke and exhort, with lots of patience and teaching. 
Because the time will come when they will not tolerate the sound doctrine; rather, they will accumulate for themselves a great many teachers who will tickle their ears according to their lusts 
—yes, they will turn their ears away from the Truth and be turned aside to fables. 
But you, be sober in all things, endure hardship, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry. 
For I am already being poured out like a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come. 
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. 
Now the crown of the righteousness is reserved for me, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will award to me on that Day; and not only to me, but also to all those who have longed for His appearing. 
Do your best to come to me quickly; 
for Demas, loving this present world, has deserted me and gone to Thessalonica—Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia. 
Only Luke is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for ministry. 
Tychicus I sent to Ephesus. 
Bring the cloak that I left with Carpus at Troas, when you come—and the books, especially the parchments. 
Alexander the coppersmith did me a lot of harm; may the Lord repay him according to his deeds. 
You also guard against him, because he strongly opposed our words. 
At my first defense no one came to help me, but all deserted me. May it not be held against them. 
But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, so that through me the message might be fully proclaimed and all the nations might hear. Also, I was delivered out of a lion's mouth; 
and the Lord will deliver me from every evil work and save me into His heavenly Kingdom; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus. 
Erastus stayed in Corinth, while I left Trophimus sick in Miletus. 
Do your best to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, as do Pudens, Linus, Claudia and all the brothers. 
The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. The Grace be with you. Amen. 
