Revelation.
Chapter 16.
And I heard a loud voice from the sanctuary saying to the seven angels, “Go, pour out the bowls of God's fury on the earth.” 
So off went the first one and poured out his bowl on the earth, and a foul and malignant ulcer appeared in the people who had the mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image. 
Then the second angel poured out his bowl on the sea, and it turned into blood, like a dead person's; so every living soul in the sea died. 
Then the third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and the springs of water, and they turned into blood. 
And I heard the angel of the waters saying: “How just You are! The One who is and who was, the holy One, because You have judged these things. 
Because they shed the blood of saints and prophets, and You have given them blood to drink. They deserve it!” 
And I heard one from the altar saying: “Yes, O Lord God, the Almighty! Your judgings are true and just!” 
Then the fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was granted to him to burn the people with fire. 
So the people were burned with severe burns, and they blasphemed the name of God, who has authority over these plagues. And they did not repent to give Him glory. 
Then the fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the Beast, and his kingdom was plunged into darkness; so they gnawed their tongues because of the pain. 
And they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains, and because of their ulcers; yet they did not repent of their deeds. 
Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates, and its water was dried up, so that the way for the kings from the sun's rising might be prepared. 
And I saw three unclean spirits, like frogs, coming out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the Beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet. 
For they are spirits of demons, performing signs, which go out to the kings of the whole inhabited earth, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty. 
(“Watch out, I am coming like a thief. Blessed is the one who watches and guards his clothes, so that he not walk about naked and they see his shame.”) 
So he gathered them to the place called in Hebrew, Armagedon. 
Then the seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air, and a great voice came out of the sanctuary of heaven, from the Throne, saying, “It is done!” 
and there were lightnings and thunders and noises. And there was a tremendous earthquake, a terribly severe earthquake such as had not occurred since mankind existed on the earth. 
So the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. And Babylon the great was remembered before God, to give her the cup of the wine of the fury of His wrath. 
And every island fled, and mountains were not found. 
And huge hailstones, weighing about a talent, fell out of the sky on the people; and the people blasphemed God on account of the plague of the hail, because its plague was exceedingly severe. 
