Acts.
Chapter 3.
Now Peter and John were going up together into the temple at the hour (the ninth) of prayer. 
And a certain man, who had actually been lame from his mother's womb, was being carried (they would lay him daily at the temple gate, the one called Beautiful, to ask alms from those who entered the temple), 
who, upon seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, began asking for alms. 
So Peter, with John, fastening his gaze on him said, “Look at us.” 
So he gave them his attention, expecting to receive something from them. 
But Peter said: “I do not have silver and gold, but what I do have I give you. In the name of Jesus Christ the Natsorean, get up and walk!” 
And grasping him by his right hand he lifted him up; immediately his feet and ankles were strengthened. 
So jumping up he stood, and began to walk! And he entered the temple with them, walking and leaping and praising God. 
Well all the people saw him walking and praising God; 
and they recognized him—that he was the one who used to sit at the Beautiful Gate of the temple, with a view to alms—and they were filled with wonder and amazement because of what had happened to him. 
Now as the lame man who had been healed held on to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the portico, the one called ‘Solomon's’, really wondering. 
So upon observing this Peter responded to the people: “Men of Israel, why are you marveling at this, or why are you staring at us as if we have made him walk by our own power or godliness? 
The God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified His Servant Jesus, whom you delivered up; and you repudiated Him to Pilate's face, when he was intending to release Him. 
Yes you repudiated the holy and righteous One, and you asked that a murderer be granted to you, 
while you killed the Originator of the Life, whom God raised from among the dead, to which we are witnesses. 
Well His name, based on faith in His name, made this man strong, whom you see and know. Yes, the faith that is through Him has given him this wholeness in the presence of you all. 
“So now, brothers, I know that you did it in ignorance, as also your rulers. 
But the things that God foretold through the mouth of all His prophets, that the Messiah would suffer, He has thus fulfilled. 
Repent therefore, and turn around, so that your sins may be erased, in order that times of refreshing may come from the Lord's face 
and that He may send Jesus, who had been ordained to be your Messiah, 
whom Heaven must receive until the times of restoration of all things, of which times God spoke long ago by the mouth of all His holy prophets. 
“For example, Moses said to the fathers: ‘The Lord our God will raise up for you a Prophet, like me, from among your brothers. You must listen to Him, in all that He may say to you. 
It will be that every person who will not listen to that Prophet will be extirpated from among the people.’ 
“Yes and all the prophets, from Samuel on down, as many as have spoken, have also foretold these days. 
You are sons of the prophets, and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying to Abraham, ‘Yes, in your seed all the families of the earth will be blessed.’ 
God, having raised up His Servant Jesus, sent Him to you first, to bless you by turning each of you away from your iniquities.” 
