Matthew.
Chapter 11.
And so it was, when Jesus finished directing His twelve disciples, that He moved on from there to teach and preach in their towns. 
But John, hearing in prison about the works of the Messiah, sent two of his disciples 
to say to Him, “Are you the Coming One, or do we look for another?” 
By way of answer Jesus said to them: “Go and report to John the things that you hear and see: 
blind regain sight and lame walk, lepers are cleansed and deaf hear, dead are raised and the poor are evangelized. 
And, blessed be whoever is not offended at Me!” 
So as they departed Jesus began to say to the crowds concerning John: “What did you go out into the wilderness to see, a reed shaken by the wind? 
But what did you go out to see, a man clothed in soft garments? Actually, those who wear soft material are in kings' houses. 
But really, what did you go out to see, a prophet? Yes, I tell you, and far more than a prophet. 
For this is he of whom it is written: ‘Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way ahead of you.’ 
Assuredly I say to you, among those born of women there has not arisen a greater than John the Baptizer; but he who is least in the kingdom of the heavens is greater than he. 
But from the days of John the Baptizer until now the kingdom of the heavens is being aggressive and aggressive people are seizing upon it. 
For all the prophets and the Law prophesied until John, 
and if you are willing to receive it, he is Elijah who is to come. 
He who has ears to hear, let him hear! 
“But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in a marketplace and calling to their friends 
and saying, ‘We played the flute for you and you did not dance; we mourned for you and you did not lament.’ 
For John came neither eating nor drinking and they say, ‘He has a demon’; 
the Son of the Man came eating and drinking and they say, ‘Just look, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ Indeed, wisdom is vindicated by her children.” 
Then He began to reproach the cities in which most of His mighty works had been done, because they did not repent. 
“Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! Because if the mighty works that were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. 
So I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the Day of judgment than for you! 
And you, Capernaum, ‘the one having been exalted to heaven’, you will be brought down to Hades! Because if the mighty works that were done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. 
So I say to you that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the Day of judgment than for you.” 
At that time Jesus reacted and said: “ ‘I praise You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to ‘babes’. 
Yes, Father, because thus it was good to You.’ 
“All things have been delivered to me by my Father, and no one really knows the Son except the Father; nor does anyone really know the Father except the Son, and the one to whom the Son may will to reveal Him. 
Come to me all you who are laboring and are loaded down, and I will give you rest. 
Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, because I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls; 
for my yoke is easy and my burden is light.” 
