Matthew.
Chapter 25.
“Then the kingdom of the heavens will be like ten virgins who, taking their lamps, went out to meet the bridegroom. 
Now five of them were prudent and five foolish. 
Those who were foolish, taking their lamps, did not take extra oil with them, 
but the prudent ones took oil in their vessels along with their lamps. 
Now while the bridegroom delayed they all dozed and slept, 
but at midnight there was a shout: ‘Attention! The bridegroom is coming; go out to meet him.’ 
Then all those virgins got up and trimmed their lamps. 
And the foolish ones said to the prudent, ‘Give us some of your oil, because our lamps are going out.’ 
But the prudent ones answered saying, ‘No, in case there not be enough for you and us; instead, go to those who sell and buy for yourselves.’ 
But while they went to buy, the bridegroom arrived, and the ones who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast—and the door was shut! 
Later the other virgins arrived too saying, ‘Lord, lord, open for us!’ 
But in answer he said, ‘Assuredly I say to you, I do not know you.’ 
Therefore, keep alert, because you do not know the day nor the hour in which the Son of the Man is coming. 
“Because the kingdom is also like a man about to go on a long journey, who called his own servants and entrusted his possessions to them. 
To one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, to each according to his own ability; and immediately he went on the journey. 
So the one who received the five talents went and traded with them, and made another five talents. 
So also the one who received the two gained another two as well. 
But he who received the one went off and dug in the ground and hid his lord's silver. 
“Then, after a long time, the lord of those servants comes and settles accounts with them. 
“So the one who had received the five talents approached and brought five more talents saying, ‘Lord, you entrusted five talents to me; see, I gained five more talents besides them!’ 
His lord said to him: ‘Super, you good and faithful servant! You were faithful over a few things, I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’ 
So the one who had received the two talents also approached and said, ‘Lord, you entrusted two talents to me; see, I gained two more talents besides them!’ 
His lord said to him: ‘Super, you good and faithful servant! You were faithful over a few things, I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’ 
“Then he who had received the one talent also approached and said: ‘Lord, I knew that you are a hard man, reaping where you did not sow and gathering where you did not scatter. 
And being afraid I went off and hid your talent in the ground; here, take what is yours.’ 
So in answer his lord said to him: ‘You wicked and lazy servant! You knew that I reap where I did not sow and gather where I did not scatter. 
Therefore you were obligated to deposit my money with the bankers, and at my coming I would have received what is mine with interest. 
Therefore, take the talent away from him and give it to the one having the ten talents. 
For to everyone who has, more will be given, and he will have abundance; but the one who does not have, even what he thinks that he has will be taken away from him. 
And throw out the useless servant, into the darkness farthest out!’ There, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
“When the Son of the Man comes in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then He will sit on His throne of glory. 
And all the nations will be gathered before Him, and He will separate them one from another, just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. 
And the sheep He will place on His right, but the goats on His left. 
Then the King will say to those on His right: ‘Come, you blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom that was prepared for you at the foundation of the world. 
For I was hungry and you gave me food; I was thirsty and you gave me drink; I was a stranger and you took me in; 
I was naked and you clothed me; I was sick and you visited me; I was in prison and you came to me.’ 
Then the righteous will answer Him saying: ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? 
When did we see you a stranger and take you in, or naked and clothe you? 
Or when did we see you sick or in prison and come to you?’ 
And in answer the King will say to them, ‘Assuredly I say to you, inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.’ 
“Then He will also say to those on His left: ‘Go away from me, you accursed ones, into the eternal fire that was prepared for the devil and his angels. 
For I was hungry and you did not give me food; I was thirsty and you did not give me drink; 
I was a stranger and you did not take me in; I was naked and you did not clothe me; I was sick and in prison and you did not visit me.’ 
Then they also will answer saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison and did not minister to you?’ 
Then He will answer them saying, ‘Assuredly I say to you, inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the least of these, neither did you do it to me.’ 
And they will go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.” 
