John.
Chapter 13.
Now before the Feast of the Passover, Jesus, knowing that His hour had come that He should depart from this world to the Father, having loved His own who were in the world He loved them to the end. 
And after supper (the devil already having put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray Him), 
Jesus, knowing that the Father had given everything into His hands, and that He had come from God and was going to God, 
He gets up from the meal and lays aside His garments, and taking a towel He tied it around Himself. 
Then He poured water into the basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to dry them with the towel with which He was wrapped. 
So He comes to Simon Peter, and he says to Him, “Lord, you wash my feet?!” 
Jesus answered and said to him, “What I am doing you do not understand now, but you will know by experience after this.” 
Peter says to Him, “You will never ever wash my feet!!” Jesus answered him, “If I do not wash you, you have no part with me.” 
Simon Peter says to Him, “Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head!” 
Jesus says to him: “One who is bathed has no need except to wash his feet, but is clean all over. And you (pl) are clean, but not all of you.” 
(He knew who was betraying Him; that is why He said, “Not all of you are clean.”) 
So when Jesus had washed their feet and put His garments back on, He reclined again and said to them: “Do you know what I have done to you? 
You address me as ‘Teacher’ and ‘Lord’, and you speak correctly, because I am. 
So then, if I, Lord and Teacher, washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. 
Because I have given you an example, so that you also should do just as I did to you. 
“Most assuredly I say to you, a slave is not greater than his owner, neither is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. 
If you understand these things, you are blessed if you do them. 
“I do not speak concerning all of you—I know whom I chose. But let the Scripture be fulfilled: ‘The one eating bread with me lifted up his heel against me.’ 
I am telling you now before it happens, so that when it does happen you will believe that I am. 
Most assuredly I say to you, he who receives whomever I send receives me, and he who receives me receives Him who sent me.” 
Having said these things, Jesus was distressed in His spirit and testified saying, “Most assuredly I say to you, one of you will betray me!” 
So the disciples started looking at each other, at a loss as to whom He meant. 
Now one of His disciples, whom Jesus loved, was reclining beside Jesus' bosom. 
So Simon Peter motions to him to inquire whom it might be that He was referring to. 
And leaning back against Jesus' breast he says to Him, “Lord, who is it?” 
Jesus answers, “It is the one to whom I will give the piece of dunked bread.” And dunking the bread He gives it to Judas Iscariot, Simon's son. 
And after the sop, then Satan entered into him. Whereupon Jesus says to him, “What you are doing, do quickly!” 
(Now none of those reclining at the table knew why He said this to him. 
Since Judas had the money box, some supposed that Jesus was telling him to buy what they needed for the feast, or to give something to the poor.) 
So having received the sop, immediately he went out. And it was night. 
When he had gone out Jesus says: “Now the Son of the Man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in Him. 
Since God has been glorified in Him, God will also glorify Him with Himself, and He will do so presently. 
“Little children, I am with you just a little longer. You will look for me, and as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I am going you cannot come,’ so now I say to you. 
“I give you a new commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you—that you also love one another. 
By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.” 
Simon Peter says to Him, “Lord, where are you going?” Jesus answered him, “Where I am going you cannot follow me now, but later you will follow me.” 
Peter says to Him: “Lord, why can't I follow you now? I will lay down my life for your sake!” 
Jesus answered him: “You will lay down your life for my sake? Most assuredly I say to you, no rooster can crow until you have denied me three times! 
