1 Peter.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, since Christ suffered on our behalf in flesh, arm yourselves also with the same mentality (for the one who has ‘suffered in flesh’ has been made to cease from sin) 
so as not to live your remaining time in flesh for human lusts any longer, but for the will of God. 
Because the time that has passed is plenty for you to have performed the will of the pagans—having walked in lewdness, lusts, drunkenness, revelries, carousings and disgusting idolatries— 
in regard to which they are disagreeably surprised at your not running with them into the same flood of debauchery, reviling you; 
they will give an account to Him who is ready to judge living and dead 
(which is precisely why dead ones were once evangelized, that they should be judged as men in flesh, to be sure, but that they should live according to God in spirit). 
The end of all things has approached; therefore be serious and self-controlled in your praying. 
Above all things your love for one another should be constant, because love covers a multitude of sins. 
Be hospitable to one another without grumbling. 
As each has received a gift, minister it to one another as good administrators of God's varied grace. 
If anyone speaks, let it be as utterances of God. If anyone serves, let it be as from strength as God supplies, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom belong the glory and the dominion throughout the ages. Amen. 
Dear ones, do not be surprised at the fiery trial that has come upon you as a test, as though something strange was happening to you, 
but to the extent that you share in Christ's sufferings, rejoice, so that at the revelation of His glory you also may rejoice a great deal more. 
If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of the glory and of God has come to rest upon you. On their part He is blasphemed, but on your part He is glorified. 
Now do not any of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or as a meddler in others' affairs; 
but if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in this matter. 
Because the time has come for judgment to begin at God's house; now if it starts with us, what will be the end of those who keep disobeying the Gospel of God? 
Also, ‘If the righteous one is saved with difficulty, where will the godless and sinful person appear?’ 
And so let those who suffer according to the will of God entrust their souls to Him in doing good, as to a faithful Creator. 
