Revelation.
Chapter 14.
And wow, I saw a Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with Him one hundred and forty-four thousand, having His name and His Father's name written on their foreheads. 
And I heard a sound from the sky, like the sound of many waters, and like the sound of loud thunder; and the sound that I heard was like harpists playing on their harps. 
And they sing a new song before the Throne, and before the four living beings and the elders; and no one was able to learn the song except the 144 thousand, who had been redeemed from the earth. 
These are the ones not defiled with women, for they are virgins; these are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever He may go. These were redeemed by Jesus from among men, firstfruits for God and for the Lamb; 
no lie was found in their mouth, for they are blameless. 
And I saw another angel flying in midheaven, having an eternal gospel to be proclaimed to those who reside on the earth—to every ethnic nation and tribe and language and people— 
saying with a loud voice, “Fear God and give Him glory, because the hour of His judging has come, and do obeisance to Him who made heaven and earth, the ocean and springs of water.” 
And another, a second, angel followed, saying: “It fell, it fell, Babylon the great!—she made all the nations drink of the wine of the rage of her fornication.” 
And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice: “If anyone worships the Beast and his image, and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, 
really, he will drink of the wine of the fury of God, mixed at full strength in the cup of His wrath. In fact, he will be tormented with fire and sulfur before the holy angels and before the Lamb.” 
So the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest day or night, those who worship the Beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name. 
Here is the endurance of the saints, here those who keep the commands of God and the faith of Jesus. 
I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, “Write: ‘Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on’ (“Yes” says the Spirit), ‘so that they may rest from their labors, and their works follow along with them.’ ” 
And wow, I saw a white cloud, and someone like a son of man was sitting on the cloud, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle. 
And another angel came out of the temple crying out with a loud voice to the one sitting on the cloud, “Thrust in your sickle and reap, for the time to reap has come, because the harvest of the earth is dry.” 
So the one sitting on the cloud swung his sickle upon the earth, and the earth was harvested. 
Then another angel came out of the temple (the one in heaven), he too having a sharp sickle. 
And another angel came out from the altar (having authority over the fire), and he called out with a loud cry to the one having the sharp sickle saying, “Thrust in your sharp sickle and gather the grape clusters of the vine of the earth, because her grapes are ripe.” 
So the angel swung his sickle at the earth and gathered the vine of the earth and threw it into the winepress of God's terrible fury. 
And the winepress was trampled outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress up to the horses' bridles, for a thousand six hundred stadia. 
