John.
Chapter 6.
After these things Jesus went over the Sea of Galilee, or Tiberias. 
And a huge crowd was following Him because they had seen His signs that He kept performing on the sick. 
So Jesus went up on the mountain and sat down there with His disciples. 
(Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near.) 
Then, raising His eyes and observing that a huge crowd was coming toward Him, Jesus says to Philip, “Where shall we buy bread so that these folks may eat?” 
Now He said this to test him, for He Himself knew what He was about to do. 
Philip answered Him, “Two hundred denarii worth of bread would not be enough for them, so that each of them could receive a little.” 
One of His disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, says to Him, 
“There is a little boy here who has five loaves of barley bread and two small fish, but what are they for so many?” 
Then Jesus said, “Make the people recline.” Now there was plenty of grass in the place; so the men reclined, about five thousand in number. 
Then Jesus took the loaves, and having given thanks He distributed them to the disciples, and the disciples to those who were reclining; so too with the fish, as much as they wanted. 
So when they were full He says to His disciples, “Collect the leftover fragments so that nothing be wasted.” 
So they collected and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves that were left over from those who had eaten. 
Now then, having seen the miraculous sign that Jesus performed the men said, “This One really is the Prophet who is to come into the world.” 
So Jesus, perceiving that they were about to come and take Him by force to make Him king, withdrew up the mountain again by Himself, alone. 
Now as evening came on His disciples had gone down to the sea, 
and getting into the boat they started to go across the sea toward Capernaum. Well it had been dark for a while and Jesus had not come to them. 
Further, the sea was being agitated by a strong wind blowing. 
Then, after they had rowed some three or four miles, they see Jesus walking on the sea and coming near the boat; and they were afraid. 
But He said to them, “It is I; don't be afraid!” 
Then they wanted to receive Him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going. 
The next day the crowd that had stayed on the other side of the sea, having seen that there was no other boat there except the one into which His disciples had entered, and that Jesus had not gotten into the boat with His disciples but only His disciples had gone away— 
although other boats had come from Tiberias, near the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks— 
so when the crowd saw that neither Jesus nor His disciples were there, they got into the boats and went to Capernaum, looking for Jesus. 
When they found Him on another side of the sea they said to Him, “Rabbi, when did you get here?” 
Jesus answered them and said: “Most assuredly I say to you, you are not seeking me because you saw miraculous signs, but because you ate the bread and were filled. 
Do not work for the food that wastes away but for the food that endures into life eternal, which the Son of the Man will give you; because on Him God the Father has set His seal.” 
So they said to Him, “What should we do so that we may work the works of God?” 
Jesus answered and said to them, “This is the work of God, that you believe into the One whom He sent.” 
So they said to Him: “Well then, what sign are you going to do so we may see and believe you? What are you going to perform? 
Our fathers ate the manna in the desert, just as it is written: ‘He gave them bread from Heaven to eat.’ ” 
Then Jesus said to them: “Most assuredly I say to you, Moses did not give you the bread from Heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from Heaven. 
For the bread of God is the One coming down out of Heaven and giving Life to the world.” 
Then they said to Him, “Lord, give us this bread always.” 
So Jesus said to them: “I am the bread of the Life. Whoever comes to me will never hunger, and whoever believes into me will never thirst. 
But, as I told you, you have actually seen me, yet you do not believe. 
All that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will not throw out; 
because it is not to do my own will that I have come down out of Heaven, but the will of the One who sent me. 
Now this is the will of the Father who sent me, that I should lose nothing out of all that He has given me, but should raise it up at the last day. 
Again this is the will of Him who sent me, that everyone who ‘sees’ the Son and believes into Him may have eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.” 
Then the Jews started complaining about Him, because He said, “I am the bread that came down out of Heaven.” 
And they were saying: “Isn't this Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? So how can he say, ‘I have come down out of Heaven’?” 
So Jesus answered and said to them: “Stop complaining among yourselves. 
No one is able to come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up at the last day. 
It is written in the prophets, ‘And they will all be taught by God.’ Therefore everyone who listens and learns from the Father comes to me. 
(Not that anyone has seen the Father, except the One who is from God—He has seen the Father.) 
Most assuredly I say to you: the one believing into me has eternal life. 
“I am the bread of the Life. 
Your fathers ate manna in the desert, and they died. 
This is the bread that comes down out of Heaven, so that anyone may eat of it and not die. 
I am the living bread which came down out of Heaven. If anyone eats of this bread he will live forever. Actually, the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give on behalf of the life of the world.” 
At that the Jews started quarrelling among themselves, saying, “How can this man give us his flesh to eat?!” 
So Jesus said to them: “Most assuredly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of the Man and drink His blood, you do not have Life within yourselves. 
Whoever chews my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. 
Really, my flesh is genuine food and my blood is genuine drink. 
Whoever chews my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me and I in him. 
Just as the living Father sent me and I live because of the Father, so also the one who feeds on me will live because of me. 
This is the bread that came down out of Heaven. Whoever feeds on this bread of mine will live forever (in contrast to your fathers who ate the manna and died).” 
He said these things while teaching in a synagogue in Capernaum. 
Therefore, upon hearing this many from among His disciples said: “This word is hard! Who is able to hear it?” 
So Jesus, knowing in Himself that His disciples were complaining about this, said to them: “Does this offend you? 
What if you should see the Son of the Man going up to where He was at first? 
The Spirit is the One who makes alive; the flesh does not benefit anything. The words that I speak to you are spirit, are Life. 
But there are some among you who do not believe.” (For Jesus knew from the start who they were who did not believe, and who was betraying Him.) 
And He said, “That is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted to him by my Father.” 
From that time many of His disciples turned back and stopped going around with Him. 
So Jesus said to the twelve, “You don't want to go away too, do you?” 
So Simon Peter answered Him: “Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. 
Further, we have come to believe and to know that you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God!” 
He said to them: “Did I myself not choose you twelve? Yet one of you is a devil.” 
He was referring to Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, for it was he who would betray Him, being one of the twelve. 
