Revelation.
Chapter 1.
Jesus Christ's revelation, which God gave Him to show to His slaves—things that must occur shortly. And He communicated it, sending it by His angel to His slave John, 
who gave witness to the word of God, even the testimony of Jesus Christ—the things that He saw, both things that are and those that must happen after these. 
Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it; because the time is near. 
John, to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace and peace to you from Him who is and who was and who is coming, and from the sevenfold Spirit who is before His throne, 
and from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the firstborn from among the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To Him who loved us and washed us from our sins with His own blood 
—indeed, He made us a kingdom, priests to His God and Father—to Him be the glory and the dominion for ever and ever. Amen. 
Take note, He comes with the clouds, and every eye will see Him, including those who pierced Him. And all the tribes of the earth will beat their breasts in dismay because of Him. Yea, verily! 
“I am the Alpha and the Omega,” says the Lord God, “He who is and who was and who is coming, The Almighty.” 
I, John, your brother and companion in the tribulation and kingdom and endurance in Christ Jesus, was on the island called Patmos on account of the Word of God and on account of the testimony of Jesus Christ. 
I was in spirit on the Lord's day and I heard a voice behind me, loud as a trumpet, 
saying, “Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches: to Ephesus, to Smyrna, to Pergamos, to Thyatira, to Sardis, to Philadelphia and to Laodicea.” 
And there I turned to see the voice that was speaking with me. And having turned I saw seven golden lampstands, 
and in the midst of the seven lampstands one similar to a son of man, clothed down to the feet and girded at the nipples with a golden belt. 
Now His head, that is His hair, was white, like wool, as white as snow; and His eyes were like a flame of fire; 
and His feet were like fine brass, as when refined in a furnace; and His voice was like the sound of many waters; 
and He had seven stars on His right hand and a sharp two-edged sword coming out of His mouth; and His countenance was like the sun shining in its strength. 
And when I saw Him I fell at His feet as if dead. And He placed His right hand upon me saying: “Do not fear. I am the First and the Last, 
even the Living One—I became dead, to be sure, and now I am living for ever and ever! Oh yes!! And I have the keys of Death and of Hades! 
Therefore write the things that you have seen, and the things that are, and the things that are going to occur after these. 
The mystery of the seven stars which you saw upon my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands: the seven stars are the messengers of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands that you saw are seven churches. 
