John.
Chapter 18.
Having said these things Jesus went out with His disciples across the Kidron ravine, where there was a garden, which He and His disciples entered. 
Now Judas, the one betraying Him, also knew the place, because Jesus often met there with His disciples. 
So Judas, having received the detachment of soldiers and operatives from the chief priests and Pharisees, he arrives there with lanterns, torches and weapons. 
Then Jesus, knowing everything that was going to happen to Him, went forward and said to them, “Who are you looking for?” 
They answered Him, “Jesus the Natsorean.” Jesus says to them, “I am he.” (Now Judas, His betrayer, was also standing with them.) 
So when He said to them, “I am he,” they went backward and fell to the ground! 
Then He asked them again, “Who are you looking for?” And they said, “Jesus the Natsorean.” 
Jesus answered: “I told you that I am he. So if it is me you are looking for, allow these men to go” 
(so that the word that He spoke might be fulfilled, “Of those you have given me I did not lose even one”). 
Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it, struck the high priest's servant and cut off his right ear. (The servant's name was Malchus.) 
So Jesus said to Peter: “Sheathe the sword! The cup that the Father has given me, must I not drink it?” 
Then the detachment, the commander and the operatives of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound Him. 
They took Him to Annas first, because he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. 
(Now Caiaphas was the one who had advised the Jews that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.) 
Now Simon Peter kept following Jesus, as also the other disciple. Well that disciple was known to the high priest, so he went into the high priest's courtyard with Jesus. 
But Peter was left standing outside by the door. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the doorkeeper (f), and brought Peter in. 
So the servant girl, the doorkeeper, says to Peter, “You aren't one of this man's disciples too, are you?” He says, “I am not!” 
Now the servants and operatives had made a charcoal fire, because it was cold, and they were standing there warming themselves. So Peter stood with them and warmed himself. 
Then the high priest questioned Jesus about His disciples and about His teaching. 
Jesus answered him: “I have spoken openly to the world. I always taught in synagogue and temple, where the Jews always congregate, and I have spoken nothing in secret. 
Why do you question me? Question those who have heard what I spoke to them. Sure, they know what I said.” 
But upon His saying these things one of the operatives standing by slapped Jesus saying, “Is that how you answer the high priest?” 
Jesus answered him, “If I spoke wrongly, identify the wrong; but if rightly, why do you hit me?” 
(Annas had sent Him bound to Caiaphas the high priest.) 
Well Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. So they said to him, “You aren't one of His disciples too, are you?” So he denied it and said, “I am not!” 
One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the one whose ear Peter had sliced, says, “Didn't I see you with Him in the garden?” 
So Peter denied again, and immediately a rooster crowed. 
Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas to the Praetorium, and it was early morning. They themselves did not enter the Praetorium, so that they would not be defiled but could eat the Passover. 
So Pilate went out to them and said, “What accusation do you bring against this man?” 
In reply they said to him, “If he were not an evil-doer we would not have handed him over to you.” 
So Pilate said to them, “You take him and judge him according to your law.” So the Jews said to him, “We are not permitted to execute anyone.” 
(This was to fulfill the statement that Jesus made, indicating what sort of death He was about to die.) 
Then Pilate went back into the Praetorium, called Jesus and said to Him, “Are you the king of the Jews?” 
Jesus answered him, “Are you saying this on your own, or did others inform you about me?” 
Pilate answered Him: “I'm not a Jew, am I? Your own nation, that is, the chief priests handed you over to me. What have you done?” 
Jesus answered: “My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my subjects would fight so that I not be delivered to the Jews; but now my kingdom is not from here.” 
So Pilate said to Him, “You are a king then?” Jesus answered: “As you say, I am a king; for this I was born. And for this I came into the world, to testify to the Truth. Everyone who is of the Truth hears my voice.” 
Pilate says to Him, “What is truth?” Upon saying this he went out to the Jews again and says to them: “I find no crime in him at all. 
Now we have a custom that I should release someone to you at the Passover; so do you want me to release the King of the Jews to you?” 
Then they all cried out saying, “Not this fellow, but Barabbas!” Well, Barabbas was a bandit! 
