Galatians.
Chapter 5.
Stand firm therefore in the freedom with which Christ has made us free, and do not be burdened again with a yoke of slavery. 
Listen! I, Paul, say to you that if you get circumcised, Christ will profit you nothing. 
Further, I testify again to every man who gets circumcised that he is obligated to keep the whole law. 
You who are ‘being justified’ by law have been alienated from the Christ; you have fallen away from the grace. 
For we through the Spirit eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness by faith. 
Because in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision avails anything, but faith working through love. 
You were running well; who hindered you from obeying the truth? 
This persuasion is not from Him who calls you. 
A little yeast leavens the whole batch of dough. 
I have confidence toward you in the Lord that you will not think differently; but he who troubles you will bear the penalty, whoever he may be. 
But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that event the offense of the cross would have been removed. 
I do wish that those who are upsetting you would just remove themselves! 
Now you, brothers, have been called to freedom; only do not use that freedom as an opening for the flesh, but slave for one another through love. 
For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, namely: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.” 
But if you bite and tear at each other, beware lest you be consumed by one another! 
I say then: walk in the Spirit, and you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. 
Because the flesh desires what is contrary to the Spirit, and the Spirit what is contrary to the flesh; they oppose each other; it follows that you may not do the things that you wish. 
However, if you are led by the Spirit you are not under law. 
Now the works of the flesh are obvious, namely: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, licentiousness, 
idolatry, sorcery, hatred, strife, jealousies, fits of anger, selfish ambition, dissentions, factions, 
envyings, murders, drinking bouts, orgies, and the like; about which I am warning you beforehand, as, in fact, I did before, that those who practice such things will not inherit the Kingdom of God. 
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, 
gentleness, self-control—against such things there is no law. 
Further, those who are Christ's have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. 
Since we live by the Spirit, let us also conform to the Spirit. 
Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. 
