Acts.
Chapter 4.
Now as they were speaking to the people, the priests, the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came at them, 
being upset because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. 
And they laid hands on them and put them in custody until the next day, because it was already evening. 
(However, many of those who heard the message believed; the number of the men came to be about five thousand.) 
So the next day an assembly of their rulers, both elders and scribes, occurred in Jerusalem, 
along with Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, John and Alexander, and as many as were of high-priestly descent. 
And having placed them in the middle of the assembly they started questioning: “By what power, or by what name did you do this?” 
Then Peter, full of Holy Spirit, said to them: “Rulers of the people and elders of Israel: 
If we are being examined today about a good deed done to a helpless man, by what means he has been made well, 
be it known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ the Natsorean, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by Him this man stands here before you whole. 
This is ‘the stone which was despised by you, the builders, which has become the chief cornerstone.’ 
Also, the salvation does not exist in anyone else, because there is no other name under heaven, given among men, by which we must be saved.” 
Now upon observing the boldness of Peter and John and perceiving that they were uneducated and unskilled men, they marveled; and they recognized that they had been with Jesus. 
Further, seeing the man who had been healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. 
So ordering them to go out from the council they began to confer among themselves, 
saying: “What can we do to these men? Because, indeed, that a notable miracle has been done through them is evident to all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. 
But so that it spreads no further among the people, let us severely threaten them to no longer speak to anyone in this name.” 
So summoning them they commanded them absolutely not to speak or teach in the name of ‘Jesus’. 
But in answer Peter and John said to them: “Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, judge for yourselves; 
because we cannot help but speak the things we have seen and heard.” 
So threatening them some more they released them, not finding any way to punish them, because of the people, since they were all glorifying God over what had happened; 
because the man on whom this miracle of healing had been performed was over forty years old. 
So upon being released they went to their own group and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them. 
Well upon hearing it, with one mind they called out to God and said: “O Sovereign! You are God, the Maker of sky and earth and ocean, and all that is in them; 
You who said through the mouth of Your servant David: ‘Why did nations snort and peoples plot vain things? 
The kings of the earth took a stand, and the rulers were gathered together, against the Lord and against His Messiah.’ 
Well, in fact, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, together with Gentiles and peoples of Israel, were gathered together against Your holy Servant Jesus, whom You anointed, 
to do whatever Your hand and Your counsel foreordained to happen. 
As for the present, Lord, consider their threats, and grant to Your slaves to speak Your word with all boldness, 
while You stretch out Your hand to heal and that signs and wonders may occur through the name of Your holy Servant Jesus.” 
Well when they had prayed, the place where they were gathered was shaken, and they were all filled with Holy Spirit and spoke the Word of God with boldness. 
Now the multitude of those who believed was of one heart and soul; indeed not one was saying that any of his belongings was his own, but they had all things in common. 
(Also the Apostles were giving witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus with great power.) Yes, great grace was on them all, 
because there were not any needy among them—as many as were owners of lands or houses were selling them and bringing the proceeds of the sold items 
and placing them at the Apostles' feet, and they were distributed to each according as anyone had need. 
So Joses, who was named Barnabas by the Apostles (which is, being translated, ‘Son of encouragement’), a Levite of the country of Cyprus, 
having a field, sold it, brought the money and placed it at the Apostles' feet. 
