Luke.
Chapter 22.
Now the feast of unleavened bread, which is called ‘Passover’, drew near. 
And the chief priests and the scribes were looking for a way to kill Him, because they feared the people. 
Then Satan entered Judas (the one surnamed Iscariot), who was numbered among the Twelve. 
So he went off and conferred with the chief priests and officers about how he might betray Him to them. 
They were glad, and agreed to give him silver coins. 
So he promised, and started looking for an opportunity to betray Him to them, without a crowd. 
Then came the day of unleavened bread, in which it was necessary to kill the Passover lamb. 
And He sent Peter and John, saying, “Go and prepare the Passover for us, that we may eat.” 
So they said to Him, “Where do you want us to prepare?” 
He said to them: “Note, upon entering the city a man carrying a jar of water will meet you; follow him into the house which he enters. 
Then you must say to the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says to you: Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?’ 
He himself will show you a large upper room, all furnished; make preparations there.” 
So off they went and found things just as He had said to them, and they prepared the Passover. 
When the hour had come, He reclined, and the twelve apostles with Him. 
Then He said to them: “I have fervently desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. 
I tell you further that I will not eat of it again until it is fulfilled in the Kingdom of God.” 
And taking a cup He gave thanks and said: “Take this and share it among yourselves. 
I tell you further that I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until the Kingdom of God comes.” 
Then, after the meal, He took bread, gave thanks, broke and gave it to them, saying, “This is my body which is given for you; do this in remembrance of me.” 
He also took the cup, saying: “This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is shed for you. 
“But alas, the hand of him who betrays me is with me on the table! 
To be sure, the Son of the Man is going as it has been determined, but woe to that man by whom He is betrayed!” 
(They began to question among themselves which of them it might be who was about to do this.) 
Now there had actually been a discussion among them as to which of them seemed to be greater. 
So He said to them: “The kings of the nations lord it over them, and those who exercise authority over them are called ‘benefactors’. 
But not so with you—rather let the greater among you become as the younger, and he who leads as he who serves. 
Who is greater, the one reclining or the one serving? Is it not the one reclining? Yet I am among you as the one who serves. 
However, you are those who have continued with me in my trials. 
And I bestow on you a kingdom, just as my Father bestowed one on me, 
so that you may eat and drink at my table in my Kingdom; also you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel!” 
Then the Lord said: “Simon, Simon! Indeed Satan has asked for you (pl) so as to sift you like wheat. 
But I have prayed for you (sg) so that your faith not fail completely; so you, when you have recovered, strengthen your brothers.” 
But he said to Him, “Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death!” 
So He said, “I say to you, Peter, no rooster can crow today before you deny three times that you know me!” 
Then He said to them, “When I sent you without money bag, knapsack or sandals, did you lack anything?” And they said, “Nothing.” 
So He said to them: “But now, he who has a money bag should take it, and likewise a knapsack; and he who has no sword must sell his garment and buy one. 
Because I say to you that this which is written must still be fulfilled in me: ‘And he was classed with the lawless’; and because the things concerning me have an end.” 
So they said, “Look, Lord, here are two swords.” And He said to them, “It is enough.” 
Then going out He went to the Mount of Olives, as His custom was, and His disciples followed Him. 
When He came to the place, He said to them, “Pray, so as not to enter into temptation.” 
Then He withdrew from them about a stone's throw, knelt down and prayed, 
saying, “Father, if you would just remove this cup from me—nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be done!” 
Then an angel from heaven appeared to Him, strengthening Him. 
And being in anguish He prayed with total concentration; then His sweat became like clots of blood, falling to the ground. 
When He rose up from prayer and came to the disciples, He found them sleeping from sorrow. 
He said to them: “Why do you sleep? Get up and pray, that you may not enter into temptation!” 
But while He was still speaking—wow, a crowd; and he who was called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them! He approached Jesus to kiss Him (he had given them this sign, “Whomever I kiss, it is he”). 
So Jesus said to him, “Judas, are you betraying the Son of the Man with a kiss?” 
When those who were around Him saw what was about to happen, they said to Him, “Lord, shall we strike with the sword?” 
And a certain one of them struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear! 
But Jesus reacted by saying, “Allow at least this!” and touching his ear He healed him. 
Then Jesus said to the chief priests, officers of the temple, and elders who had come against Him: “Have you come out with swords and clubs as against a bandit? 
When I was with you daily in the temple, you did not lay a hand on me. But this is your hour; even the authority of the darkness!” 
Then they seized, took and brought Him to the house of the high priest, with Peter following at a distance. 
Now when they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat among them. 
Then a certain servant girl, seeing him sitting by the fire, looked intently at him and said, “This man also was with him.” 
But he denied Him, saying, “Woman, I do not know him!” 
After a little while another saw him and said, “You also are one of them.” But Peter said, “Man, I am not!” 
Then after about an hour had passed, another started insisting, “Surely this fellow also was with him, because he is a Galilean.” 
But Peter said, “Man, I don't know what you're talking about!” And immediately, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed. 
And the Lord turned and looked directly at Peter; then Peter remembered the Lord's word, how He had said to him, “Before a rooster crows, you will deny me three times.” 
And going outside he wept bitterly. 
The men who were guarding Jesus started mocking and beating Him. 
And having blindfolded Him they would hit His face and ask Him, saying: “Prophesy! Who was it who struck you?” 
And they kept saying many other insulting things to Him. 
As soon as it was day, the elders of the people, both the chief priests and scribes, came together and brought Him before their council, saying, 
“If you are the Messiah, tell us.” But He said to them: “If I tell you, you simply will not believe. 
But if I also question you, you will neither answer nor release me. 
Hereafter the Son of the Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God.” 
Then they all said, “Are you then the Son of God?” So He said to them, “You say it because I AM!” 
Then they said: “What further testimony do we need? We ourselves have heard it from his mouth!” 
