The First Epistle of Paul to Timothy.
Chapter 1.
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the command of God our Savior and Sovereign Jesus Christ our hope, 
to Timothy, true son by faith: Grace, mercy, peace from God our Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. 
You recall that I urged you to remain in Ephesus, when I went into Macedonia, in order that you should command certain persons to stop teaching a different doctrine 
and occupying themselves with myths and endless genealogies, which cause disputes rather than the godly training which is by faith. 
Now the goal of that command is love, out of a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith; 
some having strayed from these have been turned aside to empty talk, 
desiring to be teachers of the law, not understanding either what they say or the things that they affirm. 
Now we know that the law is good if one uses it correctly, 
knowing that law is not made for a righteous person but for lawless and rebellious ones, for ungodly and sinners, for unholy and profane, for father-smiters and mother-smiters, for murderers, 
for fornicators, for sodomites, for kidnappers, for liars, for perjurers, and for whatever else is contrary to the sound doctrine 
as defined by the Gospel of the glory of the blessed God, with which I was entrusted. 
I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who enables me, because He considered me faithful, putting me into a ministry; 
I, who was formerly a blasphemer and a persecutor and arrogant; but I was shown mercy, because being ignorant I did it in unbelief; 
the grace of our Lord overflowed, along with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. 
Here is a trustworthy word, worthy of total acceptance: Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners—of whom I am chief; 
precisely for this reason I was shown mercy, that in me, the ‘chief’, Jesus Christ might display all his forbearance, as an example for those who are going to rely on Him into eternal life. 
Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, to God who alone is wise, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. 
Son Timothy, I am giving you this charge in accordance with the prophecies about you that lead the way, that in them you may wage the good warfare, 
holding on to faith and a good conscience (which some having rejected have suffered shipwreck concerning the Faith; 
of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander—whom I have handed over to Satan that they may be taught not to blaspheme). 
