Luke.
Chapter 10.
Now after these things, the Lord appointed seventy others also, and sent them two by two ahead of Him to every town and place where He Himself was about to go. 
Then He said to them: “The harvest is indeed great, but the workers are few; therefore pray to the Lord of the harvest that He may send out workers into His harvest. 
“Go! Yes, I am sending you out like lambs among wolves. 
Do not carry a purse, nor a knapsack, nor sandals; and greet no one along the road. 
Into whatever house you enter, first say, ‘Peace to this house.’ 
If a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him; but if not, it will return to you. 
Remain in that same house, eating and drinking what they offer, because the worker is worthy of his wages. Do not move around from house to house. 
“And into whatever town you enter, and they receive you, eat the things that are set before you. 
Heal the sick therein and say to them, ‘The Kingdom of God has come near to you.’ 
But into whatever town you enter, and they do not receive you, go out into its streets and say: 
‘Even the dust of your town that clings to us we wipe off against you. Nonetheless know this, that the Kingdom of God has come near to you.’ 
I say to you that it will be more tolerable in that Day for Sodom than for that town. 
“Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! Because if the mighty works that were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. 
Nevertheless it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the Judgment than for you. 
And you, Capernaum, who are ‘exalted to heaven’, will be brought down to Hades. 
“He who listens to you listens to me, and he who rejects you rejects me; but he who rejects me rejects Him who sent me!” 
Then the seventy returned with joy, saying, “Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!” 
So He said to them: “I watched Satan fall like lightning out of heaven. 
Take note, I am giving you the authority to trample on snakes and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing at all may harm you. 
However, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you; rather rejoice because your names are written in heaven.” 
In that same hour Jesus exulted in His spirit and said: “I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent, and have revealed them to ‘infants’. Yes, Father, because it pleased you to do so.” 
And turning to the disciples He said: “All things have been entrusted to me by my Father; also, no one knows who the Son is except the Father, and who the Father is except the Son, and to whomever the Son may choose to reveal Him.” 
Then turning to His disciples privately He said: “Blessed are the eyes that are seeing the things that you see; 
for I say to you that many prophets and kings have desired to see what you are seeing but did not, and to hear what you are hearing but did not.” 
And then, a certain lawyer stood up to test Him, saying, “Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?” 
So He said to him: “What is written in the Law? How do you read it?” 
In answer he said: “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind, and, your neighbor as yourself.” 
So He said to him, “You have answered correctly; do this and you will live!” 
But he, wanting to justify himself, said to Jesus, “And who is my neighbor?” 
By way of reply Jesus said: “A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and as it chanced he ran into robbers, who after having stripped and wounded him, departed, leaving him half dead. 
Now by coincidence a certain priest was going down that road, and when he saw him he passed by on the other side. 
So too, a Levite, when he arrived at the place, came and looked, and passed by on the other side. 
But a certain Samaritan, as he traveled, came by there, and upon seeing him was moved with compassion; 
and going to him he bound up his wounds, applying oil and wine. Then he placed him on his own mount, brought him to an inn, and took care of him. 
On the next day, when he departed, he took out two denarii, gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, ‘Take care of him; and should you spend more, I will repay you when I return.’ 
So which of these three, would you say, was ‘neighbor’ to him who ran into the robbers?” 
He said, “The one who showed mercy on him.” So Jesus said to him, “Go and do likewise!” 
Now it happened as they traveled that He entered a certain village; and a certain woman named Martha welcomed Him into her house. 
And she had a sister called Mary, who actually sat at Jesus' feet listening to His words. 
Well Martha was distracted with much serving; so coming up she said: “Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Do please tell her to help me!” 
But in answer Jesus said to her: “Martha, Martha, you are anxious and agitated about many things, 
but only one is needed. However, Mary has chosen the good part, which will not be taken away from her.” 
