1 Timothy.
Chapter 6.
As many as are under the yoke of slavery should consider their own owners to be worthy of full respect, so that God's name and doctrine not be slandered. 
Those who have owners who are believers must not disregard them because they are brothers; instead they must serve them even better, because those receiving the good service are believers and beloved. Teach and exhort these things. 
If anyone teaches differently and does not consent to sound words, the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine that accords with godliness, 
he is conceited and understands nothing. Rather he is obsessed with controversies and hair-splitting word battles, from which come envy, strife, slanderings, evil suspicions, 
constant wranglings of men with corrupted minds and destitute of the Truth, who suppose that godliness is a means to financial gain. Keep away from such people. 
Now godliness with contentment is great gain. 
We brought nothing into the world and it is certain that neither can we take anything out. 
So having food and clothing we will be content with that. 
But those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and harmful desires, that plunge people into ruin and loss; 
because the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil; in their greediness some have been led away from the faith and have impaled themselves on many distresses. 
But you, O man of God, flee these things; rather pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, endurance, gentleness. 
Fight the good fight of faith; take hold of the eternal life into which you were called—indeed, you confessed the good confession in the presence of many witnesses. 
In the presence of the God who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus who testified the good confession before Pontius Pilate, I charge you 
to keep this commandment without spot, blameless until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
which He will manifest at the proper time—He who is the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and the Lord of lords; 
who alone has immortality, residing in unapproachable light; whom no man has seen or can see; to whom be honor and eternal power. Amen. 
Command those who are rich in this present world not to be haughty, nor to rely upon the uncertainty of riches but on the living God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy; 
they are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous sharers 
—storing up for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, so that they may lay hold on the eternal life. 
O Timothy, guard the deposit! Turn away from the godless, empty chatter and inconsistencies of what is falsely called ‘science’ 
—by professing it some have erred concerning the Faith. The Grace be with you. Amen. 
