Romans.
Chapter 14.
Receive someone who is weak in the faith, but not for disputes over arguables. 
One man has faith to eat everything, while the weak one eats only vegetables. 
One who eats must not look down on one who does not, and one who does not eat must not judge one who does, because God has accepted him. 
Who are you to judge someone else's household servant? To his own master he stands or falls. And stand he will, for God has the power to make him stand. 
One man esteems one day above another; another esteems everyday alike. Let each one be fully convinced in his own mind. 
He who observes the day, observes it to the Lord; and he who does not observe the day, to the Lord he does not observe it. And he who eats, eats to the Lord, since he gives thanks to God; while he who does not eat, to the Lord he does not eat, also giving thanks to God. 
You see, none of us lives to himself, and no one dies to himself. 
Because if we live, we live to the Lord; and if we die, we die to the Lord. So whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. 
For this very reason Christ both died and rose, and lived, so as to rule both dead and living. 
But you, why do you judge your brother? And you too, why do you look down on your brother? Because we will all stand before the Judgment Seat of Christ. 
For it is written: “ ‘As I live,’ says the Lord, ‘every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall acknowledge God.’ ” 
So then, each of us will give an account of himself to God. 
Therefore let us stop passing judgment on one another, but rather resolve this: not to put a stumbling block or pitfall in a brother's way. 
I know and have been convinced by Sovereign Jesus that nothing is unclean of itself (still, to someone who considers a thing to be unclean, to him it is unclean), 
but if your brother is offended because of food, you are no longer walking according to love. Do not, with your food, ruin someone for whom Christ died. 
So do not let your good be slandered; 
because the Kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in Holy Spirit. 
For whoever serves the Christ in these things is satisfying to God and approved by men. 
So then, let us pursue the things that promote peace and the things by which one may edify another. 
Do not destroy the work of God for the sake of food. All things indeed are ‘clean’; however it is wrong for the man who gives offence by eating. 
It is good not to eat meat nor drink wine nor do anything by which your brother stumbles, or is offended, or is weakened. 
Do you have faith? Have it privately before God. Happy is he who does not judge himself in what he approves. 
But he who eats with doubt stands condemned, because it is not from faith; for whatever is not from faith is sin. 
Now to Him who has power to establish you according to my Gospel and the proclamation of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery kept secret through long ages, 
but now revealed and made known through the prophetic Scriptures, according to the command of the eternal God, with a view to obedience of faith among all ethnic nations 
—to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ—to Him be the glory forever! Amen. 
