2 Corinthians.
Chapter 3.
(Are we beginning to commend ourselves again? Do we need, as some do, letters of recommendation to you, or commendation from you? 
You are our letter, inscribed on our hearts, known and read by all men; 
you are manifestly a letter of Christ, mediated by us, written not with ink but by the Spirit of the living God, not on stone tablets but on ‘tablets’ that are hearts of flesh.) 
Now we have such confidence before God because of the Christ; 
not that we are competent of ourselves to reckon anything as being from ourselves, but our competence is from God— 
indeed, He has made us competent as ministers of a new covenant; not of letter but of Spirit, because the letter kills, while the Spirit gives life. 
Now if the ministry of death, engraved in letters on stones, came with glory—so that the children of Israel could not gaze at the face of Moses because of the glory of his countenance (that was fading)— 
how can the ministry of the Spirit not be more glorious? 
For if the ministry of condemnation had glory, how much more glorious is the ministry of righteousness! 
Because what had glory could actually be said to be without glory, compared to the surpassing glory— 
if what is being set aside had glory, that which is continuing is much more glorious. 
Therefore, since we have such a hope, we use great boldness of speech— 
not like Moses, who put a veil over his own face, so that the children of Israel would not observe the end of what was fading. 
But, it was their minds that were closed, because to this day that very veil remains in place when the Old Testament is read, since only in Christ is it taken away. 
Yes, even to this day, when Moses is read a veil lies on their heart. 
However, whenever anyone turns to the Lord the veil is removed. 
Now the Spirit is the Lord, and where the Lord's Spirit is there is freedom. 
So we all, contemplating as in a mirror the glory of the Lord with unveiled face, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, precisely from Lord Spirit. 
