Revelation.
Chapter 22.
And he showed me a pure river of water of life, bright as crystal, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb, 
in the middle of her street. And on either side of the river was a tree of life producing twelve fruits, yielding each month's fruit monthly; and the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations. 
There will be no accursed thing there, but the throne of God and of the Lamb are in her, and His slaves will minister to Him. 
They will see His face and His name is on their foreheads. 
Night will not exist there and they will need neither lamp nor sunlight, because the Lord God illuminates them. And they will reign forever and ever. 
Then He says to me: “These words are faithful and true. The Lord God of the spirits of the prophets sent His angel to show to His slaves the things that must shortly take place. 
Take note, I am coming swiftly! Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.” 
Now I, John, who heard and saw these things, when I had heard and seen I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things, 
but he says to me: “Don't! I am your fellow slave and of your brothers the prophets, those who keep the words of this book. Worship God!” 
Then he says to me: “Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near. 
He who acts unjustly let him act unjustly still, and let the filthy one be filthy still, and let the righteous one still practice righteousness, and let the holy one still be sanctified.” 
“Take note, I am coming swiftly, and my reward is with me to give to each one according to his work. 
I am the Alpha and the Omega, beginning and end, the First and the Last.” 
(Blessed are those who do His commands, so that they may have the right to the tree of life, even to enter through the gates into the city. 
Outside are the ‘dogs’ and the sorcerers and the fornicators and the murderers and the idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices a lie.) 
“I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify these things to you, in the churches. I am the Root and the Offspring of David, the bright morning Star. 
Both the Spirit and the Bride say, ‘Come!’ And let whoever hears say, ‘Come!’ And let whoever thirsts come; whoever wants to, let him take the water of life free of charge. 
“I myself testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: If any one adds to them, may God add to him the seven plagues written in this book! 
And if anyone takes away from the word s of the book of this prophecy, may God remove his share from the tree of life and out of the Holy City, that stand written in this book!” 
He who testifies to these things says, “Yes, I am coming swiftly!” Oh yes!! Come, Sovereign Jesus! 
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with all the saints. Amen. 
