Romans.
Chapter 8.
Now then, there is no condemnation to those in Christ Jesus who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit, 
because the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set me free from the law of the sin and the death. 
Further, what the law could not do, in that it was weak due to the flesh, God has done by sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, on account of sin: He condemned the sin in the flesh, 
so that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. 
Those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. 
Further, the mindset of the flesh yields death, but the mindset of the Spirit yields life and peace; 
because the mindset of the flesh represents enmity against God, since it does not submit to God's law, nor indeed can it. 
So, those who are ‘in flesh’ cannot please God. 
You, however, are not ‘in flesh’ but ‘in Spirit’, if indeed God's Spirit dwells in you. Now if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not His. 
But if Christ is in you, the body is dead through sin, but the Spirit is life through righteousness. 
And if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, then He who raised the Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies because of His Spirit who dwells in you. 
So then, brothers, we have no obligation to the flesh, to live according to it; 
because if you live according to the flesh, you are about to die; but if you put to death the practices of the body, by the Spirit, you will live. 
Because as many as are led by God's Spirit, these are God's sons 
—you did not receive a spirit of slavery to fear all over again, but you did receive the Spirit of adoption by whom we cry out, “Abba, Father!” 
That Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirit that we are God's children 
—if children, also heirs: heirs of God and coheirs with Christ (if indeed we suffer with Him so that we may also be glorified with Him). 
I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is going to be revealed in us. 
You see, the creation waits with eager anticipation for the revelation of God's sons; 
because without choice the creation was subjected to futility, due to the One who did the subjecting, based on the hope 
that the creation itself will also be set free from the bondage to decay into the freedom of the glory of God's children. 
Yes, we know that the whole creation has been groaning and in labor pains until now. 
Not only that, we ourselves also who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we groan within ourselves, eagerly awaiting adoption, the redemption of our body. 
Yes, we were saved in the hope, but a hope that is seen is not hope—why would anyone hope for what he sees? 
But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly await it with endurance. 
Likewise also the Spirit comes to the aid of the hope in our weaknesses, since we do not know what we need to pray for. Indeed the Spirit Himself intercedes on our behalf with inexpressible groanings, 
while He who searches the hearts knows what is on the Spirit's mind, since He prays for the saints in accordance with God. 
Further, we know that all things work together for good for those who love God, for those who are called according to purpose. 
Because whom He foreknew He also predestined to be conformed to the image of His Son, so that He would be the firstborn among many brothers. 
Further, whom He predestined, these He also called; and whom He called, these He also justified; and whom He justified, these He also glorified. 
What then shall we say to these things? Since God is for us, who is against us? 
He who did not spare His own Son, but delivered Him up on behalf of us all, how shall He not with Him also graciously give us all things? 
Who will bring a charge against God's chosen ones? God is He who justifies. 
Who is he who condemns? Christ is He who died, but even more, was indeed raised, who indeed is at the right hand of God, who indeed intercedes on our behalf. 
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Will it be affliction or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? 
(As it is written: “For your sake we are being put to death all day long; we are accounted as sheep for slaughter.”) 
No, in all these things we prevail completely through Him who loved us. 
Because I am persuaded that neither death nor life, neither angels nor principalities nor powers, neither things present nor things to come, 
neither height nor depth nor any other created thing will have the power to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
