Matthew.
Chapter 3.
Now in those days John the Baptizer began preaching in the wilderness of Judea 
and saying, “Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens has come near!” 
For this is he who was referred to by the prophet Isaiah, saying: “A voice crying-out, ‘Prepare in the wilderness the way of the Lord, make His paths straight.’ ” 
Now John actually used clothes made from camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist; while his food was locusts and wild honey. 
Then Jerusalem, all Judea and all the region of the Jordan went out to him, 
and were being baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins. 
But seeing many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them: “Brood of vipers! Who tipped you off to flee from the coming wrath? 
Therefore produce fruit worthy of repentance, 
and don't even think to say within yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as father,’ for I say to you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from these stones. 
Indeed, already the ax is being laid to the root of the trees. So every tree not producing good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. 
“I baptize you with water unto repentance, but the One coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with Holy Spirit. 
His winnowing shovel is in His hand, and He will thoroughly clean out His threshing floor and gather His wheat into the barn; but He will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.” 
Then Jesus came from Galilee to John at the Jordan to be baptized by him. 
But John tried to dissuade Him saying, “I have need to be baptized by You, and You are coming to me?” 
But in answer Jesus said to him, “Permit it now, because thus it is appropriate to us to fulfill all righteousness.” Then he permitted Him. 
And having been baptized Jesus came up directly from the water, when wow, the heavens were opened to Him, and he saw the Spirit of God coming down like a dove and alighting upon Him. 
And wow, a Voice from the heavens saying, “This is my Son, the beloved, in whom I am always well pleased!” 
