Matthew.
Chapter 17.
Now after six days Jesus takes Peter, James and his brother John and leads them up on a high mountain, in private. 
And He was transfigured before them and his face shone like the sun, while His clothes became as white as the light. 
When wow, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, conversing with Him. 
Then Peter reacted and said to Jesus, “Lord, it is good for us to be here; if you wish, let us make three booths: one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah.” 
While he was still speaking a brilliant cloud overshadowed them, and then, a Voice came out of the cloud saying: “This is my beloved Son in whom I am always well pleased. Hear Him!” 
As the disciples heard it they fell on their faces and were greatly afraid. 
Then Jesus came and touched them and said, “Get up, don't be afraid.” 
So lifting up their eyes they saw no one but Jesus only. 
As they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them saying, “Tell no one the vision until the Son of the Man is risen from the dead.” 
So His disciples questioned Him saying, “Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?” 
In answer Jesus said to them: “Elijah is indeed coming first, and he will restore all things. 
But I say to you that ‘Elijah’ has come already, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they wished. Thus also the Son of the Man is about to suffer at their hands.” 
Then the disciples understood that He spoke to them of John the Baptizer. 
As they came to the crowd a man approached Him and kneeling to Him said: 
“Lord, have mercy on my son, because he is moonstruck and suffers badly! For he often falls into the fire and often into the water. 
So I brought him to your disciples, but they could not cure him.” 
Then in answer Jesus said: “O faithless and perverse generation, how long must I be with you? How long must I put up with you? Bring him here to me.” 
And Jesus rebuked the demon and it came out of him, and the boy was healed from that very hour. 
Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, “Why were we not able to cast it out?” 
So Jesus said to them: “Because of your unbelief; for assuredly I say to you, if you have faith like a mustard seed has, you (ye) will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move; and nothing will be impossible for you. 
However, this class does not go out except by prayer and fasting.” 
While they were staying in Galilee Jesus said to them, “The Son of the Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men, 
and they will kill Him, and on the third day He will be raised.” And they were seriously grieved. 
When they entered Capernaum those who collected the temple tax approached Peter and said, “Does your Teacher not pay the temple tax?” 
He says, “Yes.” So when they entered the house Jesus anticipated him saying: “Simon, what do you think? From whom do the kings of the earth take customs or poll tax, from their sons or from strangers?” 
Peter says to Him, “From the strangers.” Jesus said to him: “Well then, the sons are free. 
But, lest we offend them, go to the sea, cast in a hook, and take the fish that comes up first. And opening its mouth you will find a ‘stater’ a coin; take that and give it to them for me and you.” 
