1 John.
Chapter 5.
Whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ has been begotten by God; also, whoever loves the Begetter should love the one begotten by Him as well. 
In this we know that we love the children of God, whenever we love God and keep His commandments. 
For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments; His commandments are not burdensome, 
in that whatever has been begotten by God overcomes the world; this is the victory that has overcome the world: our faith. 
Who is he who overcomes the world if not he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God? 
This is He who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ—not by the water only, but by the water and the blood. And it is the Spirit who bears witness, because the Spirit is the Truth; 
actually there are three who bear witness 
—the Spirit, the water and the blood—and the three are to one effect. 
If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater; for this is God's testimony which He has testified concerning His Son. 
He who believes into the Son of God has the witness within himself; he who does not believe God has made Him out to be a liar, because he has not believed in the testimony that God has testified concerning His Son. 
And this is the testimony: that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His Son. 
He who has the Son has the life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life. 
I have written these things to you who believe into the name of the Son of God so that you may know that you have eternal life, really believing into the name of God's Son. 
Now this is the confidence that we have toward Him: if we should ask anything according to His will, He hears us. 
And if we know that He hears us, whatever we may ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of Him. 
If anyone should see his brother sinning a sin not leading to death, let him ask, and He will give him life for those who do not sin unto death. There is sin leading to death; I am not saying that he should make request about that. 
All unrighteousness is sin, and there is sin not leading to death. 
We know that whoever has been begotten by God does not sin; rather the one who was begotten by God preserves himself, and the evil one does not touch him. 
We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. 
We know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding, so that we may know Him who is true; and we are in Him who is true, in His Son Jesus Christ. He is the genuine God, and the Life eternal. 
Dear children, guard yourselves from idols. Amen. 
