Hebrews.
Chapter 11.
Now faith is a realization of things being hoped for, an evidence of things not seen. 
By it the ancients were approved. 
By faith we understand that the ages were created by a word from God, so that the things that are seen were made out of things invisible. 
By faith Abel offered to God a better sacrifice than did Cain, through which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying concerning his gifts; and by means of it he still speaks, even though being dead. 
By faith Enoch was transferred so as not to see death, and could not be found because God had translated him; before his translation he had obtained witness that he was pleasing to God. 
Now without faith it is impossible to please Him, because the one approaching God must believe that He exists and that He becomes a rewarder of those who earnestly seek Him. 
By faith Noah, being divinely warned of things not yet seen, moved with godly fear, prepared an ark for the salvation of his household, by which he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that is according to faith. 
By faith Abraham, upon being called to go forth to the place that he would receive as an inheritance, obeyed and went, though not being acquainted with where he was going. 
By faith he migrated into the land of promise as into a foreign country, dwelling in tents, along with Isaac and Jacob, the fellow heirs of the same promise; 
for he was waiting expectantly for the city with the real foundations, whose designer and builder is God. 
By faith Sarah herself also received power to conceive seed, and she bore a child when she was past the normal age, since she judged Him faithful who had promised. 
And so from one man, actually an impotent, were begotten descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky, and as countless as the sand on the seashore. 
These all died believing—not having received the promises, but having seen and welcomed them from a distance, thus confessing that they were aliens and sojourners on the earth. 
Now those who say such things make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. 
If they were actually remembering that land from which they had departed, they would have had opportunity to return. 
Instead they are aspiring to a better home—a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; in fact He has prepared a city for them. 
By faith Abraham, upon being tested, offered up Isaac; yes, he who had received the promises was about to sacrifice his only begotten, 
of whom it had been said, “Through Isaac will your seed be reckoned,” 
calculating that God was indeed able to raise him from the dead; from whence in fact he did receive him, figuratively speaking. 
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. 
By faith Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of Joseph's sons and worshiped, leaning on the top of his staff. 
By faith Joseph, near the end, thought of the exodus of the sons of Israel and gave orders concerning his bones. 
By faith Moses was hidden for three months by his parents, after he was born, because they saw he was a fine child, and they were not afraid of the king's edict. 
By faith Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, 
choosing rather to be maltreated along with God's people than to have the temporary pleasure of sin, 
considering the reproach of Christ to be greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; because he was looking ahead to the reward. 
By faith he left Egypt behind, not fearing the king's rage, because he persevered as though seeing Him who is invisible. 
By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of the blood, so that the destroyer of the firstborn would not touch them. 
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as on dry ground, whereas the Egyptians, attempting to do so, were swallowed up. 
By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, having been encircled for seven days. 
By faith the prostitute Rahab, having received the spies in peace, did not perish with the disobedient. 
And what more shall I say? For the time would fail me to tell about Gideon, about Barak and Samson and Jephtha, about David and Samuel and the prophets, 
who through faith subdued kingdoms, administered justice, obtained promises, closed lions' mouths, 
quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, became mighty in battle, put to flight foreign armies. 
Women received their dead back by resurrection; while others were tortured, not accepting their deliverance, so that they might obtain a better resurrection. 
Still others were tried by mockings and scourgings, and even by chains and imprisonment. 
They were stoned, they were sawed in two, they were tempted, they were murdered by sword. They went about in sheepskins and goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, mistreated 
—of whom the world was not worthy—wandering in deserts and mountains and caves and holes in the ground. 
Now all these did not receive the promise, though having been approved through faith, 
God having planned something better for us, so that they should not be perfected without us. 
