1 Corinthians.
Chapter 6.
How can anyone of you who has a dispute with another dare to have it judged before the unrighteous, and not before the saints? 
Do you not know that the saints are to be judging the world? So if the world is to be judged by you, are you not competent to judge the smallest matters? 
Do you not know that we will judge angels? How much more the things of this life! 
Therefore, if you have disputes about such matters, appoint those who are least esteemed in the congregation to judge! 
I say this to your shame. Can it be that there is not a single wise man among you who would be competent to judge between a man and his brother? 
Instead, brother goes to law against brother, and this before unbelievers! 
Actually, the very fact that you have lawsuits among you already represents a defeat for you. Why do you not rather accept wrong? Why not rather accept being cheated? 
No, you yourselves do the wronging and cheating, and to brothers! 
Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the Kingdom of God? Do not be deceived! Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor catamites, nor sodomites, 
nor the greedy, nor thieves, nor drunkards, nor the abusive, nor swindlers can inherit the Kingdom of God, absolutely. 
And that is what some of you were; but you were bathed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. 
All things are ‘permissible’ for me, but not all things are expedient. All things are ‘permissible’ for me, but I will not be mastered by anything. 
Foods for the stomach and the stomach for foods, but God will destroy both it and them. Now the body is not for fornication but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. 
Further, God both raised up the Lord and will also raise up us by His power. 
Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Not ever! 
Can you not know that the one who joins himself with a prostitute is one body with her? For “the two,” He says, “will become one flesh.” 
But he who is joined with the Lord is one spirit with Him. 
Flee from fornication! Every sin that a man may commit is outside the body, but he who fornicates sins against his own body. 
Do you not know that your bodies are a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? 
Because you were bought at a price; therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. 
