Mark.
Chapter 10.
Then He set out from there and came into the borders of Judea, by way of the other side of the Jordan. Again, crowds gathered to Him, and as was His custom, He began to teach them once more. 
Then some Pharisees approached to test Him and asked Him, “Is it lawful for a man to divorce a wife?” 
So in answer He said to them, “What did Moses command you?” 
They said, “Moses permitted one to write a certificate of divorce and to put away.” 
Jesus answered and said to them: “It was due to your hardness of heart that he wrote you this precept. 
But from the beginning of creation, God made them a male and a female. 
‘For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, 
and the two will be turned into one flesh.’ So then, they are no longer two but one flesh. 
Therefore what God has joined together, let man not separate.” 
When they were in the house again, His disciples asked Him about the same subject. 
So He said to them, “Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her; 
and if a woman divorces her husband and gets married to another, she commits adultery.” 
People started bringing little children to Him, that He might touch them; so the disciples started rebuking those doing the bringing. 
But when Jesus saw it He was indignant and said to them: “Let the little children come to me; do not hinder them, because the Kingdom of God is made up of such. 
I tell you assuredly, whoever does not receive the Kingdom of God like a little child does will certainly not enter it.” 
And taking them in His arms and laying His hands on them, He blessed them. 
As Jesus set out on the road, someone came running up, knelt before Him and asked Him, “Good Teacher, what must I do that I may inherit eternal life?” 
So Jesus said to Him: “Why do you call me ‘good’? No one is good except one—God. 
You know the commandments: ‘Do not commit adultery,’ ‘Do not murder,’ ‘Do not steal,’ ‘Do not give false testimony,’ ‘Do not defraud,’ ‘Honor your father and mother.’ ” 
In answer he said to Him, “Teacher, I have kept all these since I was young.” 
Then Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him: “One thing you lack; go, sell whatever you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, take up the cross, and follow me.” 
But he was dismayed at the suggestion and went away sorrowing, because he had many possessions. 
Then Jesus looked around and said to His disciples, “How hard it is for those who have riches to get into the Kingdom of God!” 
But the disciples were astounded at His words. So Jesus tried again and said to them: “Children, how hard it is for those who trust in riches to enter the Kingdom of God. 
It is actually easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of God.” 
Then they were totally astonished, saying to each other, “Who then can be saved?” 
But Jesus looked at them and said, “With men it is impossible, but not with God; because all things are possible with God.” 
Then Peter began to say to Him, “So, we have left all and followed you.” 
In answer Jesus said: “I tell you assuredly, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or fields, for my sake and for that of the Gospel, 
who will not receive a hundred times more, now in this time—houses and brothers and sisters and father and mother and children and fields (with persecutions)—and in the age to come, eternal life. 
But many first will be last, and last first.” 
Now they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going ahead of them; this surprised them, and as they followed they started to be afraid. Then He took the twelve aside again and began to tell them the things that were about to happen to Him: 
“Take note, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of the Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and the scribes; and they will condemn Him to death and deliver Him over to the Gentiles; 
and they will mock Him, and scourge Him, and spit on Him, and kill Him. And on the third day He will rise again.” 
Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, approached Him and said, “Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we may ask.” 
So He said to them, “What do you want me to do for you?” 
They said to Him, “Grant to us that we may sit, one at your right and one at your left, in your glory.” 
But Jesus said to them: “You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?” 
They said to Him, “We are able.” So Jesus said to them: “You will indeed drink the cup that I drink, and you will be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with; 
but to sit at my right and at my left is not mine to grant, but is for whom it has been prepared.” 
Well when the ten heard it they began to be indignant with James and John. 
But Jesus summoned them and said to them: “You know that those who are regarded as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. 
But it must not be so among you, but whoever desires to become great among you must be your servant, 
and whoever desires to be your number one must be slave of all. 
For even the Son of the Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give His life a ransom for many.” 
They came to Jericho. Then as He was going out from Jericho, with His disciples and a large crowd, the blind Bartimaeus (son of Timaeus) was sitting by the roadside begging. 
And when he heard that it was Jesus the Natsorean, he began to call out and say, “O Son of David, Jesus, have mercy on me!” 
Many started telling him to shut up, but he started calling out even louder, “Son of David, have mercy on me!” 
So Jesus stood still and said to call him. Then they called the blind man, saying to him: “Courage! Get up! He's calling you!” 
Tossing off his cloak, he got up and went to Jesus. 
Jesus reacted by saying to him, “What do you want me to do for you?” The blind man said to Him, “Rabouni, that I may see again!” 
So Jesus said to him, “Go; your faith has healed you.” And immediately he could see, and followed Jesus on the road. 
