Hebrews.
Chapter 6.
Therefore, leaving the elementary teaching about Christ, let us move on toward perfection, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and trust in God, 
of teaching about baptisms, of laying on of hands, of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment. 
We will do this, that is, if indeed God should permit it. 
Because, it is impossible to bring back into repentance those who were once for all enlightened, who have partaken of the heavenly gift and were made sharers in the Holy Spirit, 
who have experienced God's good event and capabilities of the coming age, 
and yet have fallen away—they would be crucifying the Son of God all over again, just for themselves, holding Him up to contempt. 
Now the ground that drinks in the rain that frequently falls on it and produces a crop useful to those for whom it is really cultivated receives blessing from God; 
but should it bear thorns and thistles, it is disqualified, almost a curse, whose destiny is a burning. 
For all that, dear ones, we are confident of the better things concerning you—things that accompany salvation—even though we speak like this. 
Because God is not unjust so as to ignore your work, even the labor of love you have invested in His name, in that you have ministered to the saints and continue to do so. 
You see, we really do want each of you to show this same diligence to the very end, so as to fulfill the hope; 
so that you not become lazy, but rather imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises. 
Now when God made a promise to Abraham, since He had no one greater to swear by, He swore by Himself 
saying, “Indeed, blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply you.” 
And so, after he had been patient, he obtained the promise. 
Because since men swear by the greater, and for them the confirming oath puts an end to every dispute, 
similarly God, being determined to show even more clearly to the heirs of the promise the unchanging nature of His purpose, guaranteed it by an oath, 
so that by two unalterable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we should have a strong encouragement, we who have taken refuge by grasping the hope set before us; 
which hope we have as an anchor for the soul, both certain and secure, actually entering the inner sanctuary behind the curtain, 
where Forerunner Jesus has entered on our behalf, having become High Priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek. 
