Romans.
Chapter 5.
Therefore, having been justified by faith, let us be at peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
through whom also we have had the access, by the Faith, into this grace in which we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. 
Not only so, but we should also rejoice in the sufferings, knowing that the suffering produces perseverance; 
and the perseverance, proven character; and the proven character, hope; 
and the hope does not humiliate, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. 
Now then, when we were incapacitated, even so Christ died for the ungodly, at the right moment. 
Now scarcely even for a righteous person will someone offer to die (although on behalf of a good man someone might dare even to die), 
but God demonstrates His own love toward us in that while we were still sinners Christ died for us! 
So now that we have been justified by His blood, how much more shall we be saved from the wrath through Him! 
Because since we were reconciled to God through the death of His Son, while we were enemies, how much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved through His life! 
No wonder we rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation! 
Now then, just as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, just so death spread to all men, because all sinned 
—sin was in the world before the law, to be sure, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. 
Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who did not sin in the likeness of Adam's transgression (he is a type of the coming one). 
Now the gift is not like the trespass. For if the many died by the trespass of the one, how much more did God's grace and the bounty by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound to the many! 
Again, the gift is not like what came from one man's having sinned: because the judgment into condemnation followed one offense, while the gracious gift into justification followed many offenses. 
Further, if by the offense of the one man death reigned through that man, much more will those who receive the abundance of the grace and of the gift of righteousness reign in life through the One, Jesus Christ. 
So then, as through one offense there is condemnation for everyone, so also through one righteous act there is life-giving justification for everyone. 
For just as through the disobedience of the one man the many were constituted sinners, so also through the obedience of the One the many will be constituted righteous. 
However, law came on the scene so that the offense might abound; but where the sin abounded, the grace superabounded, 
so that just as sin reigned in the death, so also the grace might reign through righteousness into eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. 
