Revelation.
Chapter 5.
And I saw upon the right hand of Him who sat on the throne a scroll, written inside and outside, sealed with seven seals. 
And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, “Who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals?” 
And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look at it. 
And I began to really weep, because no one was found worthy to open and read the scroll, or to look at it. 
So one of the elders says to me: “Stop weeping! Look! The Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has prevailed to open the scroll and its seven seals.” 
And I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living beings, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb standing—as if slaughtered, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. 
And He went and took it out of the right hand of the One sitting on the throne! 
And when He took the scroll the four living beings and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each having harps and golden bowls full of incenses, which are the prayers of the saints. 
And they sing a new song saying: “You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals; because You were slaughtered, and have redeemed us to God by your blood out of every tribe and language and people and ethnic nation; 
and You have made them kings and priests to our God, and they will reign on the earth.” 
And I looked, and I heard as it were the voice of many angels, around the throne and the living beings and the elders. And their number was ten thousand times ten thousand and a thousand thousands, 
saying with a great voice: “Worthy is the Lamb who was slaughtered to receive the power and wealth and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing!” 
And every creature which is in the heaven and upon the earth and under the earth, and upon the sea (the existing places and the creatures in them)—I heard them all saying: “To Him who sits upon the throne and to the Lamb: the blessing and the honor and the glory and the power for ever and ever! Amen!!” 
(It was the four living beings saying the “Amen”.) And the elders fell and did obeisance. 
