John.
Chapter 11.
Now a certain man, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha, was sick. 
(It was the Mary who later anointed the Lord with myrrh and wiped His feet with her hair whose brother Lazarus was sick.) 
So the sisters sent to Him saying, “Lord, please, the one you love is sick!” 
Upon hearing it Jesus said, “This sickness is not unto death but for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it.” 
(Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.) 
So, when He heard that he was sick He stayed where He was two more days! 
Then after this He says to the disciples, “Let us go into Judea again.” 
The disciples say to Him, “Rabbi, the Jews were just now trying to stone you, and you are going back there?” 
Jesus answered: “Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks during the day he doesn't stumble, because he sees the light of this world. 
But if anyone walks in the night he does stumble, because the light is not in him.” 
Having said these things He says to them, “Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I am going in order to awaken him.” 
His disciples said to Him, “Lord, if he is sleeping he will get well.” 
But Jesus had spoken of his death, while they thought He was talking about natural sleep. 
So then Jesus said to them plainly: “Lazarus died. 
And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him.” 
Then Thomas (called Twin) said to his fellow disciples, “Let's us go too, so that we may die with Him.” 
So when Jesus had come, He found that he had already been in the tomb four days. 
(Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles away, 
and many of the Jews had joined the women around Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother.) 
Then Martha, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet Him; but Mary remained sitting at home. 
Then Martha said to Jesus: “Lord, if You had been here my brother would not have died. 
But even now I know that whatever You ask of God, God will give You.” 
Jesus says to her, “Your brother will rise again.” 
Martha says to Him, “I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day.” 
Jesus said to her: “I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes into me, though he may die, will live; 
and everyone who both lives and believes into me will never ever die. Do you believe this?” 
She says to Him, “Yes, Lord, I have come to believe that You are the Messiah, the Son of God, the One coming into the world.” 
Having said these things she went and called her sister Mary, saying privately, “The Teacher is here and is calling you!” 
Upon hearing it she gets up quickly and goes to Him. 
(Now Jesus had not yet entered the village, but was in the place where Martha met Him. 
Then the Jews who were with her in the house, consoling her, when they saw Mary get up quickly and go out, they followed her saying, “She is going to the tomb to weep there.”) 
Then, when Mary came where Jesus was, upon seeing Him she fell at His feet, saying to Him, “Lord, if You had been here my brother would not have died!” 
So when Jesus saw her crying, and the Jews who had come with her crying, He groaned in the spirit and was troubled. 
And He said, “Where have you put him?” They say to Him, “Lord, come and see.” 
Jesus wept. 
So the Jews said, “See how he loved him!” 
But some of them said, “Couldn't this man, who opened the eyes of the blind, have also kept this one from dying?” 
Then, groaning within Himself again, Jesus arrived at the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone was lying against it. 
Jesus says, “Remove the stone!” Martha, the sister of the deceased, says to Him, “Lord, he already stinks; it's been four days!” 
Jesus says to her, “Did I not say to you that if you believe you will see the glory of God?” 
Then they took away the stone from where the deceased was lying. Jesus raised His eyes and said: “Father, I thank You that You heard me. 
I know that You always hear me, but I spoke for the sake of the crowd standing around, so that they may believe that You sent me.” 
Upon saying these things He shouted with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come out!” 
And out the deceased came! Bound hand and foot with bandages, and his face wrapped in a cloth. Jesus says to them, “Loose him and let him go.” 
So many of the Jews who had come to Mary, and had seen what Jesus did, believed into Him. 
But some of them went off to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. 
Then the chief priests and the Pharisees convened a council and said: “What can we do? Because this man performs many miraculous signs; 
if we let him go on like this everybody will believe into him; and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation!” 
But one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest that year, said to them: “You know nothing at all! 
Nor do you consider that it is advantageous for us that one man should die on behalf of the people, rather than the whole nation perish!” 
(Now he did not say this on his own, but being high priest that year he prophesied that Jesus was about to die on behalf of the nation; 
and not only on behalf of the nation, but also to gather into one all the scattered children of God.) 
So from that day on they really plotted to kill Him. 
Therefore Jesus no longer moved about openly among the Jews, but went away from there into the country near the wilderness, to a town called Ephraim; and He stayed there with His disciples. 
Now the Jewish Passover was near, and many from the country went up to Jerusalem before the Passover in order to purify themselves. 
So they were looking for Jesus, and as they stood in the temple they were saying to each other, “What do you think—that he won't come to the feast at all?” 
Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had together issued an edict that if anyone knew where He was he should report it, so they could arrest Him. 
