Luke.
Chapter 18.
And then He told them a parable, the point being that one needs to always pray and not lose heart, 
saying: “There was a judge in a certain town who did not fear God nor regard man. 
But there was a widow in that town, and she kept coming to him, saying, ‘Get justice for me from my adversary.’ 
And for a while he refused; but afterward he said to himself, ‘Even though I don't fear God nor regard man, 
yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will defend her, so that her endless coming doesn't wear me out!’ ” 
Then the Lord said: “Hear what the unjust judge said. 
And will not God get justice for His elect who are crying out to Him day and night, indeed being patient with them? 
I tell you that He will get justice for them quickly. However, when the Son of the Man comes, will He actually find the faith on the earth?” 
Then He told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised the rest: 
“Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. 
The Pharisee stood and started praying to himself like this: ‘God, I thank you that I am not like all the rest—robbers, unjust, adulterers—or even like this tax collector. 
I fast twice a week; I tithe all that I get.’ 
The tax collector, staying a good ways off, did not even venture to look up to heaven, but started beating on his chest, saying, ‘God, be merciful to me a sinner!’ 
I say to you that this one went back home justified rather than that one; because everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted.” 
Then they even started bringing their babies to Him, that He might touch them; but when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them. 
But Jesus summoned them and said: “Allow the little children to come to me, and do not hinder them; because the Kingdom of God is of such. 
I tell you assuredly, whoever does not receive the Kingdom of God the way a little child does will by no means enter it.” 
A certain ruler asked Him, saying, “Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?” 
So Jesus said to him: “Why do you call me good? No one is good except one—God. 
You know the commandments: ‘Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not give false testimony, honor your father and your mother.’ ” 
And he said, “All these I have kept from my youth.” 
Well upon hearing these things Jesus said to him, “You still lack one thing: sell all you have and distribute to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.” 
But when he heard this he became very sad, because he was extremely rich. 
When Jesus saw that he became sad, He said: “How difficult it is for those who have riches to enter the Kingdom of God! 
It is actually easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of God!” 
So the hearers said, “Who then can be saved?” 
And He said, “The things that are impossible with men are possible with God.” 
Then Peter said, “Notice that we have left all and followed you!” 
So He said to them, “Assuredly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or parents or brothers or wife or children, for the sake of the Kingdom of God, 
who will not receive many times more in this present time, and in the age to come eternal life.” 
Then He took the Twelve aside and said to them: “Take note, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of the Man will be fulfilled: 
He will be betrayed to the Gentiles, and will be mocked and insulted and spit upon, 
and they will scourge and kill Him. And on the third day He will rise again.” 
But they understood none of these things; this saying was hidden from them, and they did not know what was being said. 
Then it happened, as He approached Jericho, that a certain blind man was sitting alongside the road begging. 
Hearing a crowd going by, he asked what it was. 
So they told him that Jesus the Natsorean was passing by. 
Well he shouted, saying, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!” 
Those who led the way started reproving him, to shut him up; but he kept calling out all the more, “Son of David, have mercy on me!” 
So Jesus stopped and ordered that he be brought to Him. When he got close He asked him, saying, 
“What do you want me to do for you?” So he said, “Lord, that I may see again!” 
Then Jesus said to him: “See again! Your faith has made you well.” 
And immediately he did! and he followed Him, glorifying God. And all who witnessed it gave praise to God. 
