2 Corinthians.
Chapter 12.
It is doubtless not profitable for me to boast; still, I will go on to visions and revelations from the Lord. 
I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven—whether in the body or outside of it, I do not know, God knows. 
Yes, I know such a man—whether in the body or outside of it, I do not know, God knows— 
how he was caught up into Paradise and heard inexpressible things, things that a man is not permitted to tell. 
I can boast about someone like that, but not about myself, unless it be my weakness. 
Now even if I wanted to go on boasting, I would not be stupid but speak the truth; but I refrain, so that no one will think more of me than what he sees in me and hears from me. 
Because of the incredible importance of the revelations, to keep me from feeling too important, there was given me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to beat on me—to keep me from feeling too important. 
Concerning this thing I pleaded with the Lord three times that it might depart from me. 
But He said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Therefore I will boast all the more cheerfully about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may take up residence upon me. 
So then, I take pleasure in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, in persecutions, in distresses, for Christ's sake. For when I am weak, then I am strong. 
I have been boasting foolishly, but you drove me to it. I ought to have been commended by you, because in nothing have I been inferior to the very best apostles, though I am nothing. 
Truly the apostolic signs were produced among you with all perseverance, by signs and wonders and miracles. 
Now in just what were you treated as inferior, compared to the other congregations, except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this wrong. 
Well now, I am ready to come to you a third time, and I will still not burden you, because I want you, not your things—children should not have to save up for parents, but parents for children. 
So I will gladly spend and be spent for the sake of your souls, even if the more I love you the less I am loved. 
‘Ok, ok, I didn't burden you, but being crafty I took you by deception.’ 
Come now, did I actually take advantage of you by any of those whom I sent to you? 
I urged Titus and sent the brother along—did Titus take any advantage of you? Did we not walk in the same spirit, in the same footprints? 
Do you still think that we are defending ourselves to you? It is before God we speak, in Christ; but all of it, dear ones, is with a view to your edification. 
Yes, I am afraid that when I come I may not find you such as I wish, and you not find me such as you wish—may there be no strife, jealousies, outbursts of anger, factions, slanders, gossipings, conceits, disorders— 
that when I come again my God may not humble me before you, and I will mourn for many who have previously sinned and not repented of the impurity and fornication and licentiousness which they practiced. 
