Philippians.
Chapter 4.
So then, my brothers, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, do stand fast in Sovereign in this way, dear ones. 
I urge Euodia and I urge Syntyche to come to agreement in the Lord. 
Yes, I urge you too, genuine yokefellow, help these women who labored with me in the Gospel, and with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the Book of Life. 
Rejoice in Sovereign always; again I say, rejoice! 
Let your forbearing spirit be evident to all; the Lord is near. 
Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and petition along with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God; 
and the peace of God, that surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. 
Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are honorable, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are commendable—whatever is of excellent character and whatever is praiseworthy—ponder such things. 
Put into practice the things that you learned, received, heard and saw in me, and the God of peace will be with you. 
I rejoice in the Lord greatly that you have renewed your concern for me once again; of course you were concerned, just lacked the opportunity. 
I am not saying this because of lack, since I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances. 
I know what it is to be restricted, and I know what it is to have an abundance; everywhere and in every way I have been initiated both into being well fed and into being hungry, both into having plenty and into having need. 
I can handle anything through Christ who strengthens me. 
Nevertheless you have done well in sharing with me in my trial. 
Now you Philippians know very well that in the beginning of the Gospel, when I left Macedonia, no congregation shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving but you only. 
Yes, even in Thessalonica, both once and again, you sent aid for my need. 
Not that I want the gift, but I want the fruit that is being added to your account. 
I have received everything and have plenty; I am well supplied, having received from Epaphroditus the things you sent, a fragrant aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. 
My God will supply every need of yours according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus. 
Now to our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you. 
All the saints greet you, but especially those who are of Caesar's household. 
The grace of the Sovereign, Jesus Christ, be with you all. Amen. 
