John.
Chapter 2.
On the third day a wedding took place in Cana of Galilee, and Jesus' mother was there. 
Now both Jesus and His disciples had been invited to the wedding. 
So when the wine had given out, Jesus' mother says to Him, “They don't have any wine!” 
Jesus says to her: “What is that to you and me, woman? My time has not yet come.” 
His mother says to the servants, “Do whatever He may tell you.” 
(Now there were six stone waterpots set there, according to the purification rites of the Jews, containing 20 or 30 gallons each.) 
Jesus says to them, “Fill the pots with water.” So they filled them to the brim. 
So He says to them, “Now, draw some out and take it to the master of ceremonies.” So they took it. 
Well, when the master of ceremonies tasted the water that had become wine—he did not know where it came from, but the servants who had drawn the water knew—he calls the bridegroom 
and says to him: “Everybody serves the good wine first, then, when people are intoxicated, the inferior. You have kept the good wine until now!” 
This, the first of the miraculous signs, Jesus performed in Cana of Galilee and revealed His glory; and His disciples believed into Him. 
After this He went down to Capernaum—He, His mother, His brothers, and His disciples—but they did not stay there many days. 
Now the Jewish Passover was near, so Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
And in the Temple He found people selling oxen and sheep and doves, also the moneychangers at work. 
When He had made a scourge out of cords, He drove all out of the temple, both the sheep and the oxen; and as for the moneychangers, He overturned the tables and scattered the coins. 
And to the dove-sellers He said: “Get these things out of here! Stop turning my Father's House into a marketplace!” 
Then His disciples remembered that it stands written, “Zeal for Your House consumes me.” 
So the Jews answered and said to Him, “What sign do you show us, since you do these things?” 
Jesus answered and said to them, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it.” 
So the Jews said, “It took forty-six years to build this temple, and you will raise it in three days?!” 
But He was speaking about the temple of His body. 
Therefore, when He was raised from among the dead His disciples remembered that He had said this; so they believed the Scripture, even the word that Jesus had spoken. 
Now while He was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the feast, many believed into His name, observing the signs that He was doing. 
But as for Jesus Himself, He did not entrust Himself to them, because He knew all men 
and that He had no need that anyone should testify about man, because He Himself knew what was in man. 
