Luke.
Chapter 23.
Then the whole crowd of them rose up and led Him to Pilate. 
And they began to accuse Him, saying, “We found this fellow perverting the nation and forbidding to pay taxes to Caesar, declaring himself to be Christ, a king.” 
So Pilate questioned Him, saying, “Are you the king of the Jews?” In reply He said to him, “You said it!” 
Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, “I find no guilt in this man.” 
But they insisted, saying, “He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee even to here.” 
When Pilate heard ‘Galilee’, he asked if the man was a Galilean. 
Upon learning that He belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent Him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem during those days. 
Now when Herod saw Jesus, he was really pleased, because for a long time he had been wanting to see Him, having heard so many things about Him; and he was hoping to see some miracle performed by Him. 
He questioned Him with many words, but He gave him no answer. 
On their part, the high priests and scribes stood by, vehemently accusing Him. 
Then Herod and his soldiers, after ridiculing and mocking Him, arrayed Him in a gorgeous robe and sent Him back to Pilate. 
(That very day Pilate and Herod became friends with each other—previously having been at odds with each other.) 
Then Pilate, having called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, 
said to them: “You have brought this man to me as one who misleads the people, and yet, having examined him in your presence, I have found no guilt in this man as to those things of which you accuse him. 
Further, neither did Herod (for I sent you on to him); indeed, nothing deserving of death has been done by him. 
I will therefore flog and release him.” 
(It was necessary for him to release one to them at the feast.) 
But they all cried out together, saying: “Away with this one! Release to us Barabbas!”— 
who had been thrown into prison for a certain insurrection in the city, and for murder. 
Then Pilate, wanting to release Jesus, addressed them again. 
But they just kept shouting: “Crucify! Crucify him!” 
For the third time he said to them: “But what evil has this man done? I have found no reason for death in him. I will therefore flog and release him.” 
But they were insistent, demanding with loud voices that He be crucified! And their voices, especially of the chief priests, prevailed. 
So Pilate decided to grant their demand. 
He released the one who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, the one they asked for; but he delivered Jesus to their will. 
Now as they led Him away, they conscripted a certain Simon of Cyrene (coming in from a field), and put the cross on him to carry it behind Jesus. 
A considerable crowd of people followed Him, including women who were also mourning and lamenting Him. 
So Jesus turned to them and said: “Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me; rather weep for yourselves and for your children. 
Because indeed, the days are coming in which they will say, ‘Blessed are the barren, even the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed!’ 
Then they will begin ‘to say to the mountains, “Fall on us!” and to the hills, “Cover us!” ’ 
For if they do these things in the ‘green tree’, what will happen in the ‘dry’?” 
There were also two others, criminals, led with Him to be put to death. 
When they arrived at the place called ‘The Skull’, they crucified Him there; also the criminals, one on His right, the other on His left. 
Then Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing”; while they were dividing up His clothes by casting a lot. 
Meanwhile the people stood looking on. And especially the rulers among them were sneering, saying, “He saved others; let him save himself, if such is the Christ, the chosen of God!” 
Yes, even the soldiers mocked Him, approaching and offering Him sour wine, 
and saying, “If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself!” 
In fact, above Him there was a written notice, in Greek, Latin and Hebrew letters: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
Then one of the hanged criminals started berating Him, saying, “If you are the Christ, save yourself and us!” 
But the other reacted and rebuked him, saying: “Don't you even fear God, since you are under the same condemnation? 
And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward for our deeds; but this man did nothing wrong.” 
Then he said to Jesus, “Please remember me, Lord, when you come in your kingdom.” 
Jesus said to him, “I tell you assuredly, today you will be with me in Paradise.” 
Now it was about the sixth hour, and darkness came upon the whole land until the ninth hour. 
Yes, the sun was darkened; also, the veil of the temple was torn in two. 
Then, after giving a loud shout, Jesus said, “Father, it is into your hands that I will commit my spirit.” And having said this, He breathed out His spirit. 
Well upon seeing what had happened, the centurion glorified God, saying, “Certainly this man was righteous!” 
And the whole crowd that had gathered for the spectacle, when they saw what actually happened, went away beating their breasts. 
But all His acquaintances, including the women who had followed Him from Galilee, stood at a distance, watching these things. 
Now then, there was a man named Joseph, a good and righteous man, a Council member 
(but he had not agreed with their counsel and action), from Arimathea, a city of the Jews, who himself was waiting for the Kingdom of God: 
this man went to Pilate and asked for Jesus' body. 
Then he took it down, wrapped it in linen, and placed it in a tomb cut out of rock, where no one had ever been laid. 
It was a Preparation day; the Sabbath was drawing near. 
The women who had come with Him from Galilee followed along, and they saw the tomb and how His body was placed there. 
Then they returned and prepared spices and perfumes. But they rested on the Sabbath according to the commandment. 
