John.
Chapter 7.
After these things Jesus continued to move about in Galilee, since He did not wish to move about in Judea because the Jews were wanting to kill Him. 
Now the Jews' Feast of Tabernacles was near. 
So His brothers said to Him: “Leave here and go up into Judea so your disciples also may see the works that you are doing, 
because no one does anything in secret while he actually wants to be in evidence. Since you are doing these things, show yourself to the world!” 
For not even His brothers were believing into Him. 
So Jesus says to them: “My time is not here yet, but your time is always available. 
The world cannot hate you, but does hate me, because I testify about it that its works are malignant. 
You guys go up to this feast; I am not going up yet to this feast, because my time has not yet fully come.” 
So upon saying these things to them He stayed on in Galilee. 
Now when His brothers had gone up to the feast, then He too went up, not openly but in secret like. 
So the Jews were looking for Him at the feast and saying, “Where is he?” 
And there was a lot of murmuring about Him among the crowds. Some were saying, “He is good”; others were saying, “On the contrary, he's deceiving the people.” 
However, no one was talking openly about Him for fear of the Jews. 
Now when the feast was already half over Jesus went up into the temple and started to teach. 
And the Jews were marveling saying, “How is this man learned, not having been educated?” 
So Jesus answered them and said: “What I teach is not mine, but His who sent me. 
If anyone wants to do His will, he will know concerning the teaching, whether it is from God or whether I am speaking on my own. 
Someone who speaks on his own is seeking his own glory; but He who seeks the glory of the One who sent Him, He is true, and there is no unrighteousness in Him. 
“Did not Moses give you the Law? And yet not one of you keeps the Law! Why do you want to kill me?” 
The crowd answered and said, “You must have a demon! Who wants to kill you?” 
Jesus answered and said to them: “I did one work, and you all marvel. 
Consider this: Moses gave you circumcision (not that it comes from Moses, but from the patriarchs), and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath. 
If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath, so that the Law of Moses won't be broken, are you angry at me because I made a whole man well on the Sabbath? 
Stop judging on the basis of appearances, but judge the righteous judgment.” 
Now some of the Jerusalemites were saying: “Isn't this the man they are wanting to kill? 
Yet look! He is speaking openly and they are saying nothing to Him. Could it be true that the rulers know that this is really the Christ? 
On the other hand, we know where this man is from; but whenever the Christ comes nobody knows where He is from.” 
So Jesus called out in the temple, teaching and saying: “You do know me, and you know where I am from. Yet I have not come on my own, but the One who sent me is true, whom you do not know. 
I do know Him because I am from Him, and He sent me.” 
So they tried to arrest Him, yet no one laid a hand on Him because His hour had not yet come. 
Now many of the crowd were believing into Him, and they were saying, “Whenever the Christ comes He won't perform more signs than these which this man has done, will He?” 
The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about Him, so the Pharisees and the chief priests sent operatives to arrest Him. 
Then Jesus said: “For a little while I am still with you, and then I go to the One who sent me. 
You will look for me and not find me; also, where I am you cannot come.” 
So the Jews said among themselves: “Where does this fellow intend to go that we won't find him? He doesn't intend to go to the Dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks, does he? 
What word is this that he spoke, ‘You will look for me and not find me’; also, ‘where I am you cannot come’?” 
Now on the last and most important day of the Feast, Jesus stood up and called out saying: “If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. 
The one believing into me, just as the Scripture has said, out from his innermost being will flow rivers of living water.” 
(Now He said this about the Spirit, whom those believing into Him were going to receive, in that the Holy Spirit had not yet been given because Jesus had not yet been glorified.) 
So upon hearing this word many from the crowd began to say, “This One really is ‘the Prophet’!” 
Others were saying, “This One is the Christ!” Others were saying: “Surely the Christ isn't coming out of Galilee, is He? 
Doesn't the Scripture say that the Christ comes out of the seed of David and from the town of Bethlehem, where David was?” 
So there developed a division in the crowd because of Him. 
Further, some of them were wanting to arrest Him, but no one laid a hand on Him. 
Then the operatives came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, “Why haven't you brought him?” 
The operatives answered, “No man ever spoke like this man!” 
So the Pharisees answered them: “You haven't been fooled too, have you? 
None of the rulers or the Pharisees have believed into him, have they? 
But this crowd that doesn't know the law is accursed!” 
Nicodemus (the one who came to Him at night, being one of them) says to them, 
“Our law doesn't judge a man before it hears him and knows what he is doing, does it?” 
They answered and said to him: “You aren't from Galilee too, are you? Search and see that no prophet has ever arisen out of Galilee.” 
So each one went to his own house. 
