2 Corinthians.
Chapter 8.
And now, brothers, we want you to know about the grace of God that has been bestowed upon the congregations of Macedonia, 
that in a great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy and their extreme poverty produced their extravagant, sincere generosity. 
Because according to their ability, I bear witness, even beyond that ability, of their own accord, 
they begged us with much entreaty to receive the gift, the sharing in the ministry to the saints 
—and more than we had hoped, they first gave themselves to the Lord (and due to God's will, to us). 
So we urged Titus that as he had made a beginning so he should also bring to completion in you this grace as well; 
that as you excel in everything—in faith, in word, in knowledge, in all diligence, and in your love for us—that you excel in this grace too. 
I am not giving a command, but I am testing the sincerity of your love by the diligence of others. 
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet for our sakes He became poor, so that you through His poverty might become rich. 
So here is my advice in this (since already a year ago you began to give and to plan, this is to your advantage): 
now you must really finish the doing—not only of the enthusiastic planning but also of the completing—out of what you have 
(because when the intention is presented, it is acceptable according to what one may have, not what he does not have). 
Now this is not to distress you so as to relieve others, 
but by way of balance—at this juncture your surplus alleviates their lack, so that later their surplus may alleviate your lack—yes, that there be balance; 
as it is written: “He who gathered much did not have too much, and he who gathered little did not have too little.” 
Now thanks be to God who puts the same earnest care for you in the heart of Titus; 
because he not only welcomed my appeal but being very diligent he went to you of his own accord. 
But we have sent together with him the brother whose praise in the Gospel is throughout all the congregations; 
and not only that—he was actually chosen by the congregations as our traveling companion with this gift, that is being administered by us with a view to the glory of the Lord Himself, and to our own goodwill, 
avoiding any criticism about how we are handling this abundance; 
giving thought to blamelessness, not only before the Lord but also before men. 
Further, we have sent with them our brother whom we have often proved to be diligent in many things, but now much more so, because of our great confidence in you. 
As for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker toward you; as for our brothers, they are envoys of the congregations, a glory of Christ. 
Therefore show the proof of your love (and of our boasting about you) to them as representatives of the congregations. 
