1 Corinthians.
Chapter 14.
Pursue love, and desire the spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy. 
Because he who speaks in a ‘language’ is not speaking to people but to God, since no one understands; in spirit he speaks mysteries. 
But he who prophesies speaks edification and exhortation and comfort to people. 
The one speaking in a ‘language’ edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the congregation. 
I could wish that you all spoke in ‘languages’, but even more that you might prophesy; because the one prophesying is greater than the one speaking in ‘languages’ (unless he interprets), so that the congregation may receive edification. 
Now then, brothers, what good will I do you if I come to you speaking in ‘languages’ instead of addressing you with revelation, or with knowledge, or with prophecy, or with teaching? 
Take lifeless things like a flute or a harp; if they make no distinction in the notes when they produce sound, how will it be known what is being piped or harped? 
Also a trumpet; if it gives an indistinct sound, who will prepare for battle? 
So it is with you: if you do not deliver an intelligible message with the ‘language’, how will it be known what is being said? You will just be speaking into the air. 
There are probably a great many kinds of sounds in the world, and none of them is without significance. 
But if I do not know the force of the sound, I will be a foreigner to the speaker, and he will be a foreigner to me. 
And you too: since you are zealous for spiritual things, aim at the edification of the congregation, that you may all grow. 
Therefore the one speaking in a ‘language’ should pray that he may interpret. 
For if I pray in a ‘language’, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful. 
So what then? I will pray with the spirit, but I will also pray with the mind; I will sing with the spirit, but I will also sing with the mind. 
Otherwise, if you bless with the spirit, how will he who occupies the place of the outsider say the “Amen” at your giving of thanks, since he does not know what you are saying? 
You, of course, give thanks quite well, but the other is not edified. 
I thank my God speaking in ‘languages’ more than you all, 
but in the congregation I would rather speak five words with my understanding, precisely so as to instruct others, than ten thousand words in a ‘language’. 
Brothers, stop thinking like children—well, in malice be ‘infants’, but in thinking be adults. 
In the law it stands written: “I will speak to this people in foreign languages and with different ‘lips’, but not even then will they listen to me,” says the Lord. 
Therefore the ‘languages’ are for a sign, not to believers but to unbelievers; while prophesying is not for unbelievers but for believers. 
So if the whole congregation comes together and all are speaking in ‘languages’, but outsiders or unbelievers come in, will they not say that you are raving? 
But if everyone is prophesying, and an unbeliever or outsider comes in, he is reproved by all, he is examined by all. 
And thus the secrets of his heart are exposed, and so, falling on his face he will worship God, affirming, “Truly God is among you!” 
So what goes on, brothers? Whenever you come together, each of you has a psalm, has a teaching, has a ‘language’, has a revelation, has an interpretation. Let all things be done for edification. 
If anyone speaks in a ‘language’, let it be two—at the most three—and in turn, and let one interpret. 
But if there is no interpreter, let him keep silent in church; let him speak to himself and to God. 
Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others evaluate. 
But if another who is sitting by receives a revelation, the first should stop speaking. 
For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all may be encouraged. 
Yes, spirits of prophets are subordinate to prophets. 
Further, God is not a God of disorder but of peace. As in all the congregations of the saints, 
your wives should keep silent in the assemblies, for they are not permitted to speak, but to be in subordination, as the law also says. 
If they want to learn about something, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is shameful for women to speak in church. 
Or was it from you that the Word of God went forth? Or was it only to you that it came? 
If anyone thinks that he is a prophet or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the things I write to you are the Lord's commands. 
But if anyone is ignorant, let him remain so. 
So then, brothers, seek to prophesy, and do not forbid to speak in ‘languages’. 
Let all things be done properly and in order. 
