Matthew.
Chapter 18.
At that time the disciples approached Jesus saying, “Who then is greater in the kingdom of the heavens?” 
So Jesus called a little child to Him, set him in the midst of them, 
and said: “Assuredly I say to you, unless you change and become like little children, you will not enter the kingdom of the heavens. 
Therefore whoever will humble himself like this little child, he is the greater in the kingdom of the heavens. 
“Whoever receives one little child like this in my name, receives me; 
but whoever should cause one of these little ones who believe into me to fall, it would be better for him if a large millstone were hung on his neck and he were drowned in the depth of the sea! 
Woe to the world because of offenses! Now it is necessary that offenses come, but woe to that person by whom the offense comes! 
“If your hand or your foot is causing you to fall, cut them off and throw them away! It is better for you to enter into the life lame or maimed than to be thrown into the everlasting fire, having two hands or two feet. 
And if your eye is causing you to fall, tear it out and throw it away! It is better for you to enter into the life one eyed than to be thrown into the fiery Hell, having two eyes. 
“See to it that you do not despise one of these little ones, for I say to you that in heaven their angels always see the face of my Father, who is in the heavens. 
For the Son of the Man came to save the lost. 
What do you think? If some man has a hundred sheep and one of them goes astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine in the mountains to go and search for the stray? 
And if he happens to find it, assuredly I say to you, he rejoices more over it than over the ninety-nine that did not go astray. 
Likewise it is not a desire, in the view of your Father in heaven, that one of these little ones should be wasted. 
“Now if your brother sins against you, go, confront him between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have won your brother. 
But should he not hear, take along with you one or two more, so that every word may be established by the mouth of two or three witnesses. 
And should he refuse to hear them, tell it to the congregation. But should he refuse to hear even the congregation, let him be to you just like the heathen and the tax collector. 
“Assuredly I say to you, whatever (pl.) you (pl.) may bind on earth will have been bound in heaven, and whatever you may loose on earth will have been loosed in heaven. 
Assuredly again, I say to you that if two of you should agree on earth about any subject whatever that they may ask, it will be done for them by my Father who is in heaven. 
Because where there are two or three gathered together into my name, there I am in their midst!” 
Then Peter approached Him and said, “Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him; up to seven times?” 
Jesus says to him: “Not, I tell you, up to seven, but up to seventy-seven times! 
“Therefore the kingdom of the heavens is like a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants. 
And as he began to settle up, one debtor of ten thousand talents was brought to him. 
But since he had nothing with which to repay, his lord commanded that he be sold, with his wife and children and everything he had, so as to be repaid. 
So then the servant fell down and did obeisance to him saying, ‘Lord, be patient with me and I will repay you all.’ 
So the lord of that servant, having compassion, released him and forgave him the loan. 
“But when that servant went out he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii; and grabbing him he started choking him saying, ‘Pay me back what you owe!’ 
So his fellow servant fell down at his feet and kept begging him saying, ‘Be patient with me and I will pay you back.’ 
But he would not; instead he went and threw him into prison until he should pay back what was owed. 
But when his fellow servants saw what had happened they were really grieved, and they went and reported to their lord everything that had happened. 
Then summoning him the lord says to him: ‘Malignant servant! I forgave you all that debt because you begged me. 
Were you also not obligated to have mercy on your fellow servant, just as I had mercy on you?’ 
So in anger the lord handed him over to the torturers until he should repay all that was owed to him. 
“My heavenly Father will handle you just like that, if each of you does not forgive his brother his trespasses, from the heart.” 
