Acts.
Chapter 9.
Meanwhile Saul, still exhaling murderous threats against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest 
and asked for letters from him to the synagogues of Damascus, so that if he should find any who were of the Way, whether men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. 
So it happened, as he was going, that he got close to Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven shone around him; 
and falling to the ground he heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?” 
So he said, “Who are you, Lord?” So the Lord said, “I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting; 
but get up and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do.” 
The men who were traveling with him stood speechless, hearing the sound but seeing no one. 
Then Saul got up from the ground, and upon opening his eyes he saw no one; so leading him by the hand they brought him into Damascus. 
He was without sight for three days, and neither ate nor drank. 
Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias, and the Lord said to him in a vision, “Ananias!” So he said, “Here I am, Lord.” 
So the Lord said to him: “Get up and go to the street called Straight, and at the house of Judas inquire by name for Saul of Tarsus; because, you see, he is praying, 
and in a vision he has seen a man named Ananias coming in and placing a hand on him, so that he might recover his sight.” 
But Ananias answered: “Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how many evil things he has done to Your saints in Jerusalem. 
Moreover here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who are calling on Your name.” 
But the Lord said to him: “Get moving, because this man is a chosen vessel to me, to carry my name before nations and kings, also the children of Israel; 
for I will show him how many things he must suffer for my name's sake.” 
So Ananias went and entered the house, and placing his hands on him he said, “Brother Saul, the Lord, who appeared to you on the road by which you came, has sent me so that you may recover your sight and be filled by Holy Spirit.” 
Immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he recovered his sight forthwith; and getting up he was baptized, 
and upon receiving food he was strengthened. So Saul was with the disciples in Damascus for a number of days. 
Immediately he started proclaiming Jesus in the synagogues, that He is the Son of the God. 
Well, all who heard him were astounded and started saying: “Isn't this the one who tried to destroy, in Jerusalem, those who called on this name? Even here he had come with that purpose, that he might take them bound to the high priests.” 
But Saul kept growing stronger and kept on confounding the Jews who lived in Damascus, proving that ‘This One is the Christ.’ 
Now when a good many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him; 
but their plot became known to Saul. They started watching the gates day and night, so that they might kill him; 
so the disciples took him by night and passed him through the wall, lowering him in a hamper. 
Now upon arriving in Jerusalem Saul kept trying to join himself to the disciples; but they were all afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple. 
But Barnabas took him in tow and brought him to the apostles, and described to them how he had seen the Lord on the road, and that He had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he had spoken fearlessly in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
So he was with them in Jerusalem, going in and out, and speaking fearlessly in the name of Jesus. 
He kept on speaking and debating with the Hellenists, so they started trying to kill him. 
Upon finding it out, the brothers brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus. 
So then the congregations throughout all Judea and Galilee, and Samaria, had peace and were built up; and proceeding in the fear of the Lord and in the enabling of the Holy Spirit they were being multiplied. 
Now it happened, as Peter went through all those parts, that he also went down to the saints who were living in Lydda. 
And there he found a certain man named Aeneas who was paralyzed—he had been lying on a pallet for eight years. 
Peter said to him: “Aeneas, Jesus the Messiah is healing you. Get up and make your bed!” And immediately he stood up! 
All who were living in Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord. 
Now there was a certain disciple in Joppa named Tabitha, which is translated Dorcas. This woman was full of good works and charitable deeds that she kept doing. 
But it happened in those days that she took sick and died; so when they had washed her they placed her in the upper room. 
Now Lydda was near Joppa; the disciples, having heard that Peter was there, sent to him imploring him not to delay in coming to them. 
So Peter got up and went with them; upon arriving they took him up to the upper room; all the widows stood around him weeping and showing the coats and garments that Dorcas was making while she was with them. 
So Peter put them all out, kneeled down and prayed. Turning to the body he said, “Tabitha, get up!” So she opened her eyes, and upon seeing Peter she sat up. 
Then he gave her a hand and lifted her up, and calling the saints and widows he presented her alive. 
And it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed on the Lord. 
So it was that he stayed many days in Joppa with a certain Simon, a tanner. 
