The Epistle of Paul to Titus.
Chapter 1.
Paul, a slave of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the faith of God's elect and a real knowledge of the Truth that accords with godliness, 
in hope of eternal life—which life God, who cannot lie, promised before the ages of time 
but has manifested by a proclamation of His Word at chosen times, which word was entrusted to me by the command of our Savior God; 
to Titus, a true son in a common faith: Grace, mercy, peace, from Father God and Sovereign Jesus Christ, our Savior. 
I left you in Crete for this reason, that you should set in order the things that were lacking and appoint elders in every town as I directed you 
—if a man is blameless, a one-woman man, having children who believe and who are not open to the charge of being wild or disobedient. 
Because as an administrator under God the overseer must be blameless; not self-willed, not hotheaded, not given to wine, not a bully, not avaricious; 
but rather hospitable, a lover of what is good, prudent, just, holy, disciplined; 
holding fast the trustworthy Word as taught, so that he may be competent both to exhort with the sound doctrine and to correct those who oppose it. 
Because there really are lots of rebels, loudmouths and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision group, 
who must be silenced—they are ruining whole households, teaching things that they ought not, and for dishonest gain! 
One of them, a prophet of their own, said, “Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons.” 
This testimony is true. Therefore correct them rigorously, that they may be sound in the faith, 
not paying attention to Jewish fables or to commands of men who are rejecting the truth. 
To the pure, all things are pure, but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; in fact, both their minds and their consciences are defiled. 
They profess to know God, but by their actions they deny Him, being detestable, disobedient and disqualified for any good work. 
