Hebrews.
Chapter 13.
Let brotherly love continue. 
Do not forget hospitality to strangers, for in doing so some have entertained angels without knowing it. 
Remember the prisoners as if chained with them, those who are being mistreated as if you yourselves were physically there. 
Marriage is honorable among all and the marriage bed undefiled, but God will judge fornicators and adulterers. 
Your way of life should be free from the love of money, being content with what you have, because He Himself has said: “I absolutely will not desert you; I most certainly will not abandon you.” 
So we can say with confidence: “The Lord is my helper; I will not fear. What can man do to me?” 
Remember your leaders, those who spoke the Word of God to you, whose faith imitate, considering the outcome of their conduct. 
Jesus Christ is Himself, yesterday and today and into the ages. 
Do not be carried away by various and strange teachings, because it is good that the heart be established by grace, not foods, by which those who were so occupied were not benefited. 
We have an altar from which those who serve in the Tabernacle have no right to eat. 
Because the bodies of the animals—whose blood, concerning sin, is brought into the Holies by the high priest—are burned up outside the camp, 
therefore Jesus also, so that He might sanctify the people by His own blood, suffered outside the city gate. 
So then, let us go out to Him, outside the camp, bearing His disgrace; 
because here we do not have a permanent city, but we seek the coming one. 
Through Him therefore, at all times, let us offer up a sacrifice of praise to God—the fruit of lips that identify with His name. 
(But do not forget to do good and to share, for with such sacrifices God is pleased.) 
Obey your leaders and submit, for they keep watch over your souls, as those who must give account, so that they may do it with joy and not sighing (which would be unprofitable for you). 
Pray for us; for we are confident that we have a good conscience, desiring to live commendably in all things; 
I especially urge you to do this so that I may be restored to you more quickly. 
Now may the God of peace—who through the blood of the eternal covenant brought back from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great Shepherd of the sheep— 
equip you for every good work to do His will, working in you what is well pleasing in His sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. 
Now I appeal to you, brothers, bear with this word of exhortation, for I have written to you in few words. 
Know that brother Timothy has been released, with whom I will see you, if he comes quickly. 
Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you. 
The Grace be with you all. Amen. 
