The First Epistle of Peter.
Chapter 1.
Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the elect sojourners of the Dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia, 
elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, by the setting apart of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling with the blood of Jesus Christ: May grace and peace be multiplied to you. 
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to His great mercy has given us another birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from among the dead, 
into an imperishable and undefiled and unfading inheritance, already reserved in the heavens for you, 
who are being guarded by the power of God through faith unto a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. 
You should be overjoyed about this, even if just now, briefly, of necessity, you have been distressed by a variety of trials, 
so that the demonstrated genuineness of your faith (much more precious than gold that perishes, albeit tested through fire) may translate into praise, glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ 
—whom not having understood you love, into whom believing (not yet seeing) you exult with joy inexpressible, already glorified, 
obtaining for yourselves the end result of your faith, the salvation of your souls. 
Concerning this salvation the prophets, who prophesied about the grace that would come to you, searched and inquired diligently, 
investigating into whom, or what sort of time, the Spirit of Christ who was in them was indicating as He testified beforehand the sufferings that would be inflicted on Christ and the glories that would follow them. 
It was revealed to them that they were not ministering these things to themselves, but to you; which things have now been announced to you by those who proclaimed the gospel to you, with the Holy Spirit sent from heaven—things that angels really desire to look into. 
Therefore, having girded up the loins of your mind, staying sober, rest your hope fully upon the grace being brought to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ— 
as children of obedience, not conforming yourselves to the former lusts as in your ignorance, 
but just as He who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your way of life, 
because it is written, “You shall be holy, for I am holy.” 
Also, since you invoke as Father the One who without partiality judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves during the time of your sojourn here in fear, 
knowing that it was not with perishable things (silver or gold) that you were redeemed from the futile way of life handed down by your forefathers, 
but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a faultless and pure lamb; 
who was foreknown indeed before the foundation of the world, but was revealed in these last times for your sake, 
who through Him are believing into God, who raised Him out from the dead and gave Him glory, so that your faith and hope are into God. 
Since you have purified your souls by obeying the truth through the Spirit, resulting in sincere brotherly love, you must love one another fervently from a pure heart, 
having been begotten again, not from a corruptible seed but an incorruptible, through the living Word of God that remains valid forever. 
For: “All flesh is as grass, and all man's glory as flower of grass. The grass withers and its flower falls off, but the Lord's word endures forever.” 
Now this is the good word that was proclaimed to you. 
