The Gospel According to Matthew.
Chapter 1.
A genealogy of Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abraham: 
Abraham begot Isaac, then Isaac begot Jacob, then Jacob begot Judah and his brothers; 
then Judah begot Perez and Zerah by Tamar, then Perez begot Hezron, then Hezron begot Ram; 
then Ram begot Amminadab, then Amminadab begot Nahshon, then Nahshon begot Salmon; 
then Salmon begot Boaz by Rahab, then Boaz begot Obed by Ruth, then Obed begot Jesse, 
then Jesse begot David the king. Then King David begot Solomon by her who was of Uriah, 
then Solomon begot Rehoboam, then Rehoboam begot Abijah, then Abijah begot Asa; 
then Asa begot Jehoshaphat, then Jehoshaphat begot Joram, then Joram begot Uzziah; 
then Uzziah begot Jotham, then Jotham begot Ahaz, then Ahaz begot Hezekiah; 
then Hezekiah begot Manasseh, then Manasseh begot Amon, then Amon begot Josiah; 
then Josiah begot Jeconiah and his brothers about the time of the Babylonian captivity. 
After the Babylonian captivity Jeconiah begot Shealtiel, then Shealtiel begot Zerubbabel; 
then Zerubbabel begot Abiud, then Abiud begot Eliakim, then Eliakim begot Azor; 
then Azor begot Zadok, then Zadok begot Achim, then Achim begot Eliud; 
then Eliud begot Eleazar, then Eleazar begot Matthan, then Matthan begot Jacob; 
then Jacob begot Joseph the husband of Mary, by whom was begotten Jesus, who is called Christ. 
So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, and from David until the Babylonian captivity are fourteen generations, and from the Babylonian captivity until the Christ are fourteen generations. 
Now the birth of Jesus Christ was like this: After His mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, before they joined together, she was found to be pregnant by the Holy Spirit. 
Then Joseph her husband, being a just man and not wanting to humiliate her publicly, decided to repudiate her secretly. 
But while he pondered these things, wow, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream saying: “Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to receive Mary as your wife, because that which has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. 
And she will give birth to a Son and you will call His name Jesus, because He will save His people from their sins.” 
Now all this happened so that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet should be fulfilled, namely: 
“Behold, the virgin will become pregnant and bear a Son, and they shall call His name Emmanuel”, which being translated is, ‘God with us’. 
Then Joseph, being aroused from sleep, did as that angel of the Lord commanded him and received his wife, 
but did not know her until she had given birth to her son, the firstborn. And he called His name JESUS. 
