1 Corinthians.
Chapter 16.
Now concerning the collection for the saints, you must do just as I instructed the congregations in Galatia. 
On the first day of the week, each of you should set something aside, saving up as he is being prospered, that there be no collections when I come. 
And when I arrive, I will send whomever you approve by letters to carry your gift to Jerusalem. 
But should it be fitting that I go as well, they will go with me. 
Now I will come to you when I pass through Macedonia (for I am coming through Macedonia). 
And perhaps I will stay with you awhile, or even winter, that you may send me on my way, wherever I go. 
I do not wish to see you now just in passing, since I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord permits. 
So I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost, 
because a great and effective door has opened to me, and there are many adversaries. 
Now if Timothy should come, see to it that he may be with you without fear, because he does the Lord's work just as I do. 
Therefore no one should despise him; but send him on his way in peace, that he may come to me; I am expecting him along with the brothers. 
Now about brother Apollos: I repeatedly urged him to go to you with the brothers, but he just did not want to go at this time; he will go whenever he has an opportunity. 
Watch! Stand firm in the faith! Be courageous! Be strong! 
Do all you do in love. 
Now brothers, you know that the household of Stephanas is the firstfruits of Achaia and that they have really devoted themselves to ministering to the saints, 
so I urge you to submit to such people, to all the fellow-workers and laborers. 
I am glad about the coming of Stephanas, Fortunatus and Achaicus, for what was lacking on your part they have supplied; 
for they refreshed my spirit and yours; so give recognition to such men. 
The congregations of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla, with the congregation in their house, greet you warmly in the Lord. 
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. 
I, Paul, personally sign this greeting. 
If anyone does not love our Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. The Lord is coming! 
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
My love is with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. 
