Numbers.
Chapter 26.
And it comes to pass, after the plague, that YHWH speaks to Moses and to Eleazar son of Aaron the priest, saying, 
“Take a census of all the congregation of the sons of Israel, from a son of twenty years and upward, by the house of their fathers, everyone going out to the host in Israel.” 
And Moses speaks—Eleazar the priest also—with them in the plains of Moab by the Jordan, near Jericho, saying, 
“From a son of twenty years and upward,” as YHWH has commanded Moses and the sons of Israel who are coming out from the land of Egypt. 
Reuben, firstborn of Israel—sons of Reuben: of Enoch is the family of the Enochite; of Pallu the family of the Palluite; 
of Hezron the family of the Hezronite; of Carmi the family of the Carmite. 
These are families of the Reubenite, and their numbered ones are forty-three thousand and seven hundred and thirty. 
And the son of Pallu is Eliab; 
and the sons of Eliab are Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram; this is that Dathan and Abiram, called ones of the congregation, who have striven against Moses and against Aaron in the congregation of Korah, in their striving against YHWH, 
and the earth opens her mouth, and swallows them and Korah, in the death of the congregation, in the fire consuming the two hundred and fifty men, and they become a sign; 
but the sons of Korah did not die. 
Sons of Simeon by their families: of Nemuel is the family of the Nemuelite; of Jamin the family of the Jaminite; of Jachin the family of the Jachinite; 
of Zerah the family of the Zerahite; of Shaul the family of the Shaulite. 
These are families of the Simeonite—twenty-two thousand and two hundred. 
Sons of Gad by their families: of Zephon is the family of the Zephonite; of Haggi the family of the Haggite; of Shuni the family of the Shunite; 
of Ozni the family of the Oznite; of Eri the family of the Erite: 
of Arod the family of the Arodite; of Areli the family of the Arelite. 
These are families of the sons of Gad by their numbered ones—forty thousand and five hundred. 
Sons of Judah are Er and Onan; and Er dies—Onan also—in the land of Canaan. 
And sons of Judah by their families are: of Shelah the family of the Shelanite; of Perez the family of the Perezite; of Zerah the family of the Zerahite; 
and sons of Perez are: of Hezron the family of the Hezronite; of Hamul the family of the Hamulite. 
These are families of Judah by their numbered ones—seventy-six thousand and five hundred. 
Sons of Issachar by their families: of Tola is the family of the Tolaite; of Pua the family of the Punite; 
of Jashub the family of the Jashubite; of Shimron the family of the Shimronite. 
These are families of Issachar by their numbered ones—sixty-four thousand and three hundred. 
Sons of Zebulun by their families: of Sered is the family of the Sardite; of Elon the family of the Elonite; of Jahleel the family of the Jahleelite. 
These are families of the Zebulunite by their numbered ones—sixty thousand and five hundred. 
Sons of Joseph by their families are Manasseh and Ephraim. 
Sons of Manasseh: of Machir is the family of the Machirite; and Machir has begotten Gilead; of Gilead is the family of the Gileadite. 
These are sons of Gilead: of Jeezer is the family of the Jeezerite; of Helek the family of the Helekite; 
and of Asriel the family of the Asrielite; and of Shechem the family of the Shechemite; 
and of Shemida the family of the Shemidaite; and of Hepher the family of the Hepherite. 
And Zelophehad son of Hepher had no sons, but only daughters, and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad are Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. 
These are families of Manasseh, and their numbered ones are fifty-two thousand and seven hundred. 
These are sons of Ephraim by their families: of Shuthelah is the family of the Shuthelhite; of Becher the family of the Bachrite; of Tahan the family of the Tahanite. 
And these are sons of Shuthelah: of Eran the family of the Eranite. 
These are families of the sons of Ephraim by their numbered ones—thirty-two thousand and five hundred. These are sons of Joseph by their families. 
Sons of Benjamin by their families: of Bela is the family of the Belaite; of Ashbel the family of the Ashbelite; of Ahiram the family of the Ahiramite; 
of Shupham the family of the Shuphamite; of Hupham the family of the Huphamite. 
And sons of Bela are Ard and Naaman: of Ard is the family of the Ardite; of Naaman the family of the Naamite. 
These are sons of Benjamin by their families, and their numbered ones are forty-five thousand and six hundred. 
These are sons of Dan by their families: of Shuham is the family of the Shuhamite; these are families of Dan by their families; 
all the families of the Shuhamite by their numbered ones—sixty-four thousand and four hundred. 
Sons of Asher by their families: of Jimna is the family of the Jimnite; of Jesui the family of the Jesuite; of Beriah the family of the Beriite. 
Of sons of Beriah: of Heber is the family of the Heberite; of Malchiel the family of the Malchielite. 
And the name of the daughter of Asher is Sarah. 
These are families of the sons of Asher by their numbered ones—fifty-three thousand and four hundred. 
Sons of Naphtali by their families: of Jahzeel is the family of the Jahzeelite; of Guni the family of the Gunite; 
of Jezer the family of the Jezerite; of Shillem the family of the Shillemite. 
These are families of Naphtali by their families, and their numbered ones are forty-five thousand and four hundred. 
These are numbered ones of the sons of Israel—six hundred thousand and one thousand seven hundred and thirty. 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“The land is apportioned to these by inheritance, by the number of names; 
to the many you increase their inheritance, and to the few you diminish their inheritance; each is given his inheritance according to his numbered ones. 
Surely the land is apportioned by lot; they inherit by the names of the tribes of their fathers; 
their inheritance is apportioned according to the lot between many and few.” 
And these are numbered ones of the Levite by their families: of Gershon is the family of the Gershonite; of Kohath the family of the Kohathite; of Merari the family of the Merarite. 
These are families of the Levite: the family of the Libnite, the family of the Hebronite, the family of the Mahlite, the family of the Mushite, the family of the Korathite. And Kohath has begotten Amram, 
and the name of Amram’s wife is Jochebed, daughter of Levi, whom has been born to Levi in Egypt; and she bears to Amram Aaron, and Moses, and their sister Miriam. 
And born to Aaron are Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar; 
and Nadab dies—Abihu also—in their bringing strange fire near before YHWH. 
And their numbered ones are twenty-three thousand, every male from a son of a month and upwards, for they have not numbered themselves in the midst of the sons of Israel, because an inheritance has not been given to them in the midst of the sons of Israel. 
These are those numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who have numbered the sons of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan, near Jericho; 
and among these there has not been a man of those numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest, who numbered the sons of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai, 
for YHWH said of them, “They certainly die in the wilderness”; and there has not been left a man of them, except Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun. 
