John.
Chapter 18.
Having said these things, Jesus went forth with His disciples beyond the Brook of Kidron, where there was a garden, into which He entered, Himself and His disciples, 
and Judas also, who delivered Him up, had known the place, because Jesus assembled there with His disciples many times. 
Judas, therefore, having taken the band and officers out of the chief priests and Pharisees, comes there with torches and lamps, and weapons; 
Jesus, therefore, knowing all things that are coming on Him, having gone forth, said to them, “Whom do you seek?” 
They answered Him, “Jesus the Nazarene”; Jesus says to them, “I AM”; and Judas who delivered Him up was standing with them. 
When, therefore, He said to them, “I AM,” they went away backward, and fell to the ground. 
Again, therefore, He questioned them, “Whom do you seek?” And they said, “Jesus the Nazarene”; 
Jesus answered, “I said to you that I AM; if, then, you seek Me, permit these to go away”; 
that the word might be fulfilled that He said, “Those whom You have given to Me, I did not lose even one of them.” 
Simon Peter, therefore, having a sword, drew it, and struck the chief priest’s servant, and cut off his right ear—and the name of the servant was Malchus— 
Jesus, therefore, said to Peter, “Put the sword into the sheath; the cup that the Father has given to Me, may I not drink it?” 
The band, therefore, and the captain, and the officers of the Jews, took hold on Jesus, and bound Him, 
and they led Him away to Annas first, for he was father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was chief priest of that year, 
and Caiaphas was he who gave counsel to the Jews that it is good for one man to perish for the people. 
And following Jesus was Simon Peter, and the other disciple, and that disciple was known to the chief priest, and he entered with Jesus into the hall of the chief priest, 
and Peter was standing at the door outside, therefore the other disciple who was known to the chief priest went forth, and he spoke to the doorkeeper, and he brought in Peter. 
Then the maid, the doorkeeper, says to Peter, “Are you also of the disciples of this Man?” He says, “I am not”; 
and the servants and the officers were standing, having made a fire of coals, because it was cold, and they were warming themselves, and Peter was standing with them, and warming himself. 
The chief priests, therefore, questioned Jesus concerning His disciples, and concerning His teaching; 
Jesus answered him, “I spoke freely to the world, I always taught in a synagogue, and in the temple, where the Jews always come together; and I spoke nothing in secret; 
why do you question Me? Question those having heard what I spoke to them; behold, these have known what I said.” 
And He having said these things, one of the officers standing by gave Jesus a slap, saying, “Thus do You answer the chief priest?” 
Jesus answered him, “If I spoke ill, testify concerning the ill; and if well, why do you strike Me?” 
Annas then sent Him bound to Caiaphas the chief priest. 
And Simon Peter was standing and warming himself, then they said to him, “Are you also of His disciples?” He denied and said, “I am not.” 
One of the servants of the chief priest, being a relative of him whose ear Peter cut off, says, “Did I not see you in the garden with Him?” 
Again, therefore, Peter denied, and immediately a rooster crowed. 
They led, therefore, Jesus from Caiaphas into the Praetorium, and it was early, and they themselves did not enter into the Praetorium, that they might not be defiled, but that they might eat the Passover; 
Pilate, therefore, went forth to them and said, “What accusation do you bring against this Man?” 
They answered and said to him, “If He were not doing evil, we had not delivered Him to you.” 
Pilate, therefore, said to them, “Take Him—you—and judge Him according to your law”; the Jews, therefore, said to him, “It is not lawful to us to put anyone to death”; 
that the word of Jesus might be fulfilled which He said, signifying by what death He was about to die. 
Pilate, therefore, entered into the Praetorium again, and called Jesus, and said to Him, “You are the King of the Jews?” 
Jesus answered him, “Do you say this from yourself? Or did others say it to you about Me?” 
Pilate answered, “Am I a Jew? Your nation and the chief priests delivered You up to me; what did You do?” 
Jesus answered, “My kingdom is not of this world; if My kingdom were of this world, My officers had struggled that I might not be delivered up to Jews; but now My kingdom is not from here.” 
Pilate, therefore, said to Him, “Are You then a king?” Jesus answered, “You say it, because I am a king; I have been born for this, and I have come into the world for this, that I may testify to the truth; everyone who is of the truth, hears My voice.” 
Pilate says to Him, “What is truth?” And having said this, again he went forth to the Jews and says to them, “I find no fault in Him; 
and you have a custom that I will release to you one in the Passover; do you determine, therefore, that I will release to you the King of the Jews?” 
Therefore they all cried out again, saying, “Not this One—but Barabbas”; and Barabbas was a robber. 
