The Second Book of the Chronicles.
Chapter 1.
And Solomon son of David strengthens himself over his kingdom, and his God YHWH is with him, and makes him exceedingly great. 
And Solomon says to all Israel, to heads of the thousands, and of the hundreds, and to the ones judging, and to every honorable one of all Israel, heads of the fathers, 
and they go—Solomon, and all the assembly with him—to the high place that is in Gibeon, for God’s Tent of Meeting has been there, that Moses, servant of YHWH, made in the wilderness, 
but David had the Ark of God brought up from Kirjath-Jearim to the place David had prepared for it, for he stretched out a tent for it in Jerusalem; 
and the altar of bronze that Bezaleel son of Uri, son of Hur made, he put before the Dwelling Place of YHWH; and Solomon and the assembly seek Him there. 
And Solomon goes up there, on the altar of bronze, before YHWH, that is at the Tent of Meeting, and causes one thousand burnt-offerings to ascend on it. 
In that night God has appeared to Solomon and says to him, “Ask—what do I give to you?” 
And Solomon says to God, “You have done great kindness with my father David, and have caused me to reign in his stead. 
Now, O YHWH God, Your word with my father David is steadfast, for You have caused me to reign over a people as numerous as the dust of the earth; 
now, give wisdom and knowledge to me, and I go out before this people, and I come in, for who judges this—Your great people?” 
And God says to Solomon, “Because that this has been with your heart, and you have not asked for riches, wealth, and honor, and the life of those hating you, and also have not asked for many days, and ask for wisdom and knowledge for yourself, so that you judge My people over which I have caused you to reign— 
the wisdom and the knowledge is given to you, and riches and wealth and honor I also give to you, that there has not been so to the kings who are before you, and after you it is not so.” 
And Solomon comes in to Jerusalem from the high place that is in Gibeon, from before the Tent of Meeting, and reigns over Israel, 
and Solomon gathers chariots and horsemen, and he has one thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, and he places them in the cities of the chariots, and with the king in Jerusalem. 
And the king makes the silver and the gold in Jerusalem as stones, and the cedars he made as sycamores that are in the low country, for abundance. 
And the source of the horses that are for Solomon is from Egypt and from Keva; merchants of the king take them from Keva at a price, 
and they come up, and bring out a chariot from Egypt for six hundred pieces of silver, and a horse for one hundred and fifty, and so for all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Aram—they bring them out by their hand. 
