Matthew.
Chapter 4.
Then Jesus was led up to the wilderness by the Spirit, to be tempted by the Devil, 
and having fasted forty days and forty nights, afterward He hungered. 
And the tempting one, having come to Him, said, “If You are the Son of God—speak that these stones may become loaves.” 
But He answering said, “It has been written: Man does not live on bread alone, but on every word coming forth from the mouth of God.” 
Then the Devil takes Him to the holy city, and sets Him on the pinnacle of the temple, 
and says to Him, “If You are the Son of God—cast Yourself down, for it has been written that, His messengers He will charge concerning you, and on hands they will bear you up, that you may not dash your foot on a stone.” 
Jesus said to him again, “It has been written: You will not tempt the LORD your God.” 
Again the Devil takes Him to a very high mountain, and shows to Him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory, 
and says to Him, “All these I will give to You, if falling down You may worship me.” 
Then Jesus says to him, “Go—Satan, for it has been written: You will worship the LORD your God, and Him only will you serve.” 
Then the Devil leaves Him, and behold, messengers came and were ministering to Him. 
And Jesus, having heard that John was delivered up, withdrew to Galilee, 
and having left Nazareth, having come, He dwelt at Capernaum that is by the sea, in the borders of Zebulun and Naphtali, 
that it might be fulfilled that was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying, 
“Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations! 
The people that is sitting in darkness saw a great light, and to those sitting in a region and shadow of death—light arose to them.” 
From that time Jesus began to proclaim and to say, “Convert, for the kingdom of the heavens has come near.” 
And Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brothers, Simon named Peter and his brother Andrew, casting a drag into the sea—for they were fishers— 
and He says to them, “Come after Me, and I will make you fishers of men,” 
and they, immediately, having left the nets, followed Him. 
And having advanced from there, He saw two other brothers, James of Zebedee, and his brother John, in the boat with their father Zebedee, refitting their nets, and He called them, 
and they, immediately, having left the boat and their father, followed Him. 
And Jesus was going in all of Galilee teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every sickness among the people, 
and His fame went forth to all Syria, and they brought to Him all the ill having manifold oppressing diseases and torments—and demoniacs, and lunatics, and paralytics—and He healed them. 
And there followed Him many multitudes from Galilee, and Decapolis, and Jerusalem, and Judea, and beyond the Jordan. 
