Mark.
Chapter 15.
And immediately, in the morning, the chief priests having made a consultation with the elders, and scribes, and the whole Sanhedrin, having bound Jesus, led Him away, and delivered Him to Pilate; 
and Pilate questioned Him, “Are You the King of the Jews?” And He answering said to him, “You say it.” 
And the chief priests were accusing Him of many things, but He answered nothing. 
And Pilate again questioned Him, saying, “You do not answer anything? Behold, how many things they testify against You!” 
And Jesus no longer answered anything, so that Pilate wondered. 
And at every celebration he was releasing to them one prisoner, whomsoever they were asking for; 
and there was one named Barabbas, bound with those making insurrection with him, who had committed murder in the insurrection. 
And the multitude having cried out, began to ask for themselves as he was always doing to them, 
and Pilate answered them, saying, “Will you that I will release to you the King of the Jews?” 
For he knew that the chief priests had delivered Him up because of envy; 
and the chief priests moved the multitude that he might rather release Barabbas to them. 
And Pilate answering, again said to them, “What, then, will you that I will do to Him whom you call King of the Jews?” 
And they again cried out, “Crucify Him!” 
And Pilate said to them, “Why—what evil did He do?” And they cried out the more vehemently, “Crucify Him!” 
And Pilate, resolving to do that which was satisfactory to the multitude, released Barabbas to them, and delivered up Jesus—having scourged Him—that He might be crucified. 
And the soldiers led Him away into the hall, which is the Praetorium, and call together the whole band, 
and clothe Him with purple, and having plaited a garland of thorns, they put it on Him, 
and began to greet Him, “Hail, King of the Jews!” 
And they were striking Him on the head with a reed, and were spitting on Him, and having bent the knee, were prostrating to Him, 
and when they had mocked Him, they took the purple from off Him, and clothed Him in His own garments, and they led Him forth, that they may crucify Him. 
And they impress a certain one passing by—Simon, a Cyrenian, coming from the field, the father of Alexander and Rufus—that he may carry His cross, 
and they bring Him to the place called Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, “Place of the Skull”; 
and they were giving Him wine mingled with myrrh to drink, and He did not receive it. 
And having crucified Him, they were dividing His garments, casting a lot on them, what each may take; 
and it was the third hour, and they crucified Him; 
and the inscription of His accusation was written above: “THE KING OF THE JEWS.” 
And they crucify two robbers with Him, one on the right hand and one on His left, 
and the Writing was fulfilled that is saying, “And He was numbered with lawless ones.” 
And those passing by were slandering Him, shaking their heads, and saying, “Ha! The One throwing down the temple, and building it in three days! 
Save Yourself, and come down from the cross!” 
And in like manner also the chief priests, mocking with one another, with the scribes, said, “He saved others; He is not able to save Himself. 
The Christ! The King of Israel—let Him come down now from the cross, that we may see and believe”; and those crucified with Him were reproaching Him. 
And the sixth hour having come, darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour, 
and at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a great voice, saying, “Eloi, Eloi, lamma sabachthani?” Which is, being interpreted, “My God, My God, why did You forsake Me?” 
And certain of those standing by, having heard, said, “Behold, He calls Elijah”; 
and one having run, and having filled a sponge with vinegar, having also put it on a reed, was giving Him to drink, saying, “Let alone, let us see if Elijah comes to take Him down.” 
And Jesus having uttered a loud cry, yielded the spirit, 
and the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, 
and the centurion who was standing opposite Him, having seen that, having so cried out, He yielded the spirit, said, “Truly this Man was the Son of God.” 
And there were also women beholding far off, among whom was also Mary the Magdalene, and Mary of James the less, and of Joses, and Salome, 
who also, when He was in Galilee, were following Him and were ministering to Him, and many other women who came up with Him to Jerusalem. 
And now evening having come, seeing it was the Preparation, that is, before Sabbath, 
Joseph of Arimathea, an honorable counselor, who also himself was waiting for the Kingdom of God, came, boldly entered in to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus. 
And Pilate wondered if He were already dead, and having called near the centurion, questioned him if He were long dead, 
and having known it from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph. 
And he, having brought fine linen, and having taken Him down, wrapped Him in the linen, and laid Him in a tomb that had been hewn out of a rock, and he rolled a stone to the door of the tomb, 
and Mary the Magdalene, and Mary of Joses, were beholding where He is laid. 
