Leviticus.
Chapter 14.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“This is a law of the leper, in the day of his cleansing, that he has been brought to the priest, 
and the priest has gone out to the outside of the camp, and the priest has seen, and behold, the plague of leprosy has ceased from the leper, 
and the priest has commanded, and he has taken for him who is to be cleansed, two clean living birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop. 
And the priest has commanded, and he has slaughtered one bird on an earthen vessel, over running water; 
as for the living bird, he takes it, and the cedar wood, and the scarlet, and the hyssop, and has dipped them and the living bird in the blood of the slaughtered bird, over the running water, 
and he has sprinkled on him who is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times, and has pronounced him clean, and has sent out the living bird over the face of the field. 
And he who is to be cleansed has washed his garments, and has shaved all his hair, and has bathed with water, and has been clean, and afterward he comes into the camp, and has dwelt at the outside of his tent for seven days. 
And it has been, on the seventh day—he shaves all his hair, his head, and his beard, and his eyebrows, even all his hair he shaves, and he has washed his garments, and has bathed his flesh with water, and has been clean. 
And on the eighth day he takes two lambs, perfect ones, and one ewe-lamb, daughter of a year, a perfect one, and three-tenth parts of flour for a present, mixed with oil, and one log of oil. 
And the priest who is cleansing has caused the man who is to be cleansed to stand with them before YHWH, at the opening of the Tent of Meeting, 
and the priest has taken one male lamb, and has brought it near for a guilt-offering, also the log of oil, and has waved them as a wave-offering before YHWH. 
And he has slaughtered the lamb in the place where he slaughters the sin-offering and the burnt-offering, in the holy place; for like the sin-offering, the guilt-offering is for the priest; it is most holy. 
And the priest has taken of the blood of the guilt-offering, and the priest has put it on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot; 
and the priest has taken of the log of oil, and has poured it on the left palm of the priest, 
and the priest has dipped his right finger in the oil which is on his left palm, and has sprinkled of the oil with his finger seven times before YHWH. 
And of the remainder of the oil which is on his palm, the priest puts it on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot, on the blood of the guilt-offering; 
and the remnant of the oil which is on the palm of the priest, he puts it on the head of him who is to be cleansed, and the priest has made atonement for him before YHWH. 
And the priest has made the sin-offering, and has made atonement for him who is to be cleansed from his uncleanness, and afterward he slaughters the burnt-offering; 
and the priest has caused the burnt-offering to ascend, also the present, on the altar, and the priest has made atonement for him, and he has been clean. 
And if he is poor, and his hand is not reaching these things, then he has taken one lamb for a guilt-offering, for a wave-offering, to make atonement for him, and one-tenth part of flour mixed with oil for a present, and a log of oil, 
and two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, which his hand reaches to, and one has been a sin-offering and one a burnt-offering; 
and he has brought them in on the eighth day for his cleansing to the priest, to the opening of the Tent of Meeting, before YHWH. 
And the priest has taken the lamb of the guilt-offering, and the log of oil, and the priest has waved them as a wave-offering before YHWH; 
and he has slaughtered the lamb of the guilt-offering, and the priest has taken of the blood of the guilt-offering, and has put it on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot; 
and the priest pours of the oil on the left palm of the priest; 
and the priest has sprinkled with his right finger of the oil which is on his left palm, seven times before YHWH. 
And the priest has put of the oil which is on his palm, on the tip of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot, on the place of the blood of the guilt-offering; 
and he puts the remnant of the oil which is on the palm of the priest on the head of him who is to be cleansed, to make atonement for him, before YHWH. 
And he has made one of the turtle-doves or of the young pigeons (from that which his hand reaches to, 
even that which his hand reaches to), one a sin-offering and one a burnt-offering, besides the present, and the priest has made atonement for him who is to be cleansed before YHWH. 
This is a law of him in whom is a plague of leprosy, whose hand does not reach to his cleansing.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses and to Aaron, saying, 
“When you come into the land of Canaan, which I am giving to you for a possession, and I have put a plague of leprosy in a house in the land of your possession, 
then he whose the house is has come in and declared it to the priest, saying, Some plague has appeared to me in the house; 
and the priest has commanded, and they have prepared the house before the priest comes in to see the plague (that all which is in the house is not unclean), and afterward the priest comes in to see the house; 
and he has seen the plague, and behold, the plague is in the walls of the house, hollow streaks, greenish or reddish, and their appearance is lower than the wall, 
and the priest has gone out of the house to the opening of the house, and has shut up the house for seven days. 
And the priest has turned back on the seventh day, and has seen, and behold, the plague has spread in the walls of the house, 
and the priest has commanded, and they have drawn out the stones in which the plague is, and have cast them to the outside of the city, to an unclean place; 
and he causes the house to be scraped all around inside, and they have poured out the clay which they have scraped off, at the outside of the city, at an unclean place; 
and they have taken other stones, and brought them to the place of the stones, and he takes other clay and has coated the house. 
And if the plague returns, and has broken out in the house, after he has drawn out the stones, and after the scraping of the house, and after the coating, 
then the priest has come in and seen, and behold, the plague has spread in the house; it is a fretting leprosy in the house; it is unclean. 
And he has broken down the house, its stones, and its wood, and all the clay of the house, and he has brought them forth to the outside of the city, to an unclean place. 
And he who is going into the house all the days he has shut it up, is unclean until the evening; 
and he who is lying in the house washes his garments; and he who is eating in the house washes his garments. 
And if the priest certainly comes in, and has seen, and behold, the plague has not spread in the house after the coating of the house, then the priest has pronounced the house clean, for the plague has been healed. 
And he has taken two birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop for the cleansing of the house; 
and he has slaughtered one bird on an earthen vessel, over running water; 
and he has taken the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird, and has dipped them in the blood of the slaughtered bird, and in the running water, and has sprinkled against the house seven times. 
And he has cleansed the house with the blood of the bird, and with the running water, and with the living bird, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop, and with the scarlet; 
and he has sent the living bird away to the outside of the city to the face of the field, and has made atonement for the house, and it has been clean. 
This is the law for every plague of the leprosy and for scale, 
and for leprosy of a garment, and of a house, 
and for a rising, and for a scab, and for a bright spot— 
to direct in the day of being unclean, and in the day of being clean; this is the law of the leprosy.” 
