Acts.
Chapter 9.
And Saul, yet breathing of threatening and slaughter to the disciples of the LORD, having gone to the chief priest, 
asked from him letters to Damascus, to the synagogues, that if he may find any being of The Way, both men and women, he may bring them bound to Jerusalem. 
And in the going, he came near to Damascus, and suddenly there shone around him a light from Heaven, 
and having fallen on the earth, he heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why do you persecute Me?” 
And he said, “Who are You, Lord?” And the LORD said, “I am Jesus whom you persecute; hard for you to kick at the goads”; 
trembling also, and astonished, he said, “Lord, what do You wish me to do?” And the LORD said to him, “Arise, and enter into the city, and it will be told to you what you must do.” 
And the men who are journeying with him stood speechless, indeed hearing the voice but seeing no one, 
and Saul arose from the earth, and his eyes having been opened, he beheld no one, and leading him by the hand they brought him to Damascus, 
and he was three days without seeing, and he neither ate nor drank. 
And there was a certain disciple in Damascus, by name Ananias, and the LORD said to him in a vision, “Ananias”; and he said, “Behold me, Lord”; 
and the LORD says to him, “Having risen, go on to the street that is called Straight, and seek in the house of Judas, one by name Saul of Tarsus, for behold, he prays, 
and he saw in a vision a man, by name Ananias, coming in, and putting a hand on him, that he may see again.” 
And Ananias answered, “LORD, I have heard from many about this man, how many evils he did to Your holy ones in Jerusalem, 
and here he has authority from the chief priests, to bind all those calling on Your Name.” 
And the LORD said to him, “Go, because this one is a chosen vessel to Me, to carry My Name before nations and kings—also the sons of Israel; 
for I will show him how many things he must suffer for My Name.” 
And Ananias went away, and entered into the house, and having put on him his hands, said, “Saul, brother, the LORD has sent me—Jesus who appeared to you in the way in which you were coming—that you may see again, and may be filled with the Holy Spirit.” 
And immediately there fell from his eyes as it were scales, he also saw again instantly, and having risen, was immersed, 
and having received nourishment, was strengthened, and Saul was with the disciples in Damascus certain days, 
and immediately he was preaching the Christ in the synagogues, that He is the Son of God. 
And all those hearing were amazed and said, “Is this not he who laid waste in Jerusalem those calling on this Name, and here to this intent had come, that he might bring them bound to the chief priests?” 
And Saul was still more strengthened, and he was confounding the Jews dwelling in Damascus, proving that this is the Christ. 
And when many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel together to kill him, 
and their counsel against him was known to Saul; they were also watching the gates both day and night, that they may kill him, 
and the disciples having taken him, by night let him down by the wall, letting down in a basket. 
And Saul, having come to Jerusalem, tried to join himself to the disciples, and they were all afraid of him, not believing that he is a disciple, 
and Barnabas having taken him, brought him to the apostles, and declared to them how he saw the LORD in the way, and that He spoke to him, and how in Damascus he was speaking boldly in the Name of Jesus. 
And he was with them, coming in and going out in Jerusalem, 
and speaking boldly in the Name of the Lord Jesus; he was both speaking and disputing with the Hellenists, and they were taking in hand to kill him, 
and the brothers having known, brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him forth to Tarsus. 
Then, indeed, the assemblies throughout all Judea, and Galilee, and Samaria, had peace, being built up, and going on in the fear of the LORD, and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, they were multiplied. 
And it came to pass that Peter passing throughout all quarters, also came down to the holy ones who were dwelling at Lydda, 
and he found there a certain man, Aeneas by name—for eight years laid on a pallet—who was paralytic, 
and Peter said to him, “Aeneas, Jesus the Christ heals you; arise and spread for yourself”; and immediately he rose, 
and all those dwelling at Lydda and Saron saw him, and turned to the LORD. 
And in Joppa there was a certain female disciple, by name Tabitha (which interpreted, is called Dorcas); this woman was full of good works and kind acts that she was doing; 
and it came to pass in those days she, having ailed, died, and having bathed her, they laid her in an upper chamber, 
and Lydda being near to Joppa, the disciples having heard that Peter is in that place, sent two men to him, calling on him not to delay to come through to them. 
And Peter having risen, went with them, whom having come, they brought into the upper chamber, and all the widows stood by him weeping, and showing coats and garments, as many as Dorcas was making while she was with them. 
And Peter having put them all forth outside, having bowed the knees, prayed, and having turned to the body, said, “Tabitha, arise”; and she opened her eyes, and having seen Peter, she sat up, 
and having given her his hand, he lifted her up, and having called the holy ones and the widows, he presented her alive, 
and it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed on the LORD; 
and it came to pass, that he remained many days in Joppa, with a certain one, Simon a tanner. 
