John.
Chapter 7.
And Jesus was walking after these things in Galilee, for He did not wish to walk in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill Him, 
and the celebration of the Jews was near—that of Shelters— 
His brothers, therefore, said to Him, “Depart from here, and go away to Judea, that Your disciples may also behold Your works that You do; 
for no one does anything in secret, and himself seeks to be in public; if you do these things—reveal Yourself to the world”; 
for not even His brothers were believing in Him. 
Jesus, therefore, says to them, “My time is not yet present, but your time is always ready; 
the world is not able to hate you, but it hates Me, because I testify concerning it that its works are evil. 
You—go up to this celebration; I do not yet go up to this celebration, because My time has not yet been fulfilled”; 
and saying these things to them, He remained in Galilee. 
And when His brothers went up, then also He Himself went up to the celebration, not openly, but as in secret; 
the Jews, therefore, were seeking Him in the celebration, and said, “Where is that One?” 
And there was much murmuring about Him among the multitudes, some indeed said, “He is good”; and others said, “No, but He leads the multitude astray”; 
no one, however, was speaking freely about Him, through fear of the Jews. 
And it being now the middle of the celebration, Jesus went up to the temple, and He was teaching, 
and the Jews were wondering, saying, “How has this One known letters—having not learned?” 
Jesus answered them and said, “My teaching is not Mine, but His who sent Me; 
if anyone may will to do His will, he will know concerning the teaching, whether it is of God, or—if I speak from Myself. 
He who is speaking from himself seeks his own glory, but he who is seeking the glory of him who sent him, this one is true, and unrighteousness is not in him; 
has not Moses given you the Law? And none of you does the Law; why do you seek to kill Me?” 
The multitude answered and said, “You have a demon, who seeks to kill You?” 
Jesus answered and said to them, “I did one work, and you all wonder, 
because of this, Moses has given you the circumcision—not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers—and on a Sabbath you circumcise a man; 
if a man receives circumcision on a Sabbath that the Law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with Me that I made a man all whole on a Sabbath? 
Do not judge according to appearance, but the righteous judgment judge.” 
Certain, therefore, of the Jerusalemites said, “Is this not He whom they are seeking to kill? 
And behold, He speaks freely, and they say nothing to Him; did the rulers truly know that this is the Christ? 
But this One—we have known where He is from; and the Christ, when He comes, no one knows where He is from.” 
Jesus cried, therefore, in the temple, teaching and saying, “You have both known Me, and you have known from where I am; and I have not come of Myself, but He who sent Me is true, whom you have not known; 
and I have known Him, because I am from Him, and He sent Me.” 
They were seeking, therefore, to seize Him, and no one laid the hand on Him, because His hour had not yet come, 
and many out of the multitude believed in Him and said, “The Christ—when He may come—will He do more signs than these that this One did?” 
The Pharisees heard the multitude murmuring these things concerning Him, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers that they may take Him; 
Jesus, therefore, said to them, “Yet a short time I am with you, and I go away to Him who sent Me; 
you will seek Me, and you will not find; and where I am, you are not able to come.” 
The Jews, therefore, said among themselves, “To where is this One about to go that we will not find Him? Is He about to go to the dispersion of the Greeks, and to teach the Greeks? 
What is this word that He said, You will seek Me, and you will not find? And, Where I am, you are not able to come?” 
And in the last, the great day of the celebration, Jesus stood and cried, saying, “If anyone thirsts, let him come to Me and drink; 
he who is believing in Me, according as the Writing said, Rivers of living water will flow out of his belly”; 
and this He said of the Spirit, which those believing in Him were about to receive; for not yet was the Holy Spirit, because Jesus was not yet glorified. 
Many, therefore, out of the multitude, having heard the word, said, “This is truly the Prophet”; 
others said, “This is the Christ”; and others said, “Why, does the Christ come out of Galilee? 
Did the Writing not say that out of the seed of David, and from Beth-Lehem—the village where David was—the Christ comes?” 
A division, therefore, arose among the multitude because of Him. 
And certain of them were willing to seize Him, but no one laid hands on Him; 
the officers came, therefore, to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, “Why did you not bring Him?” 
The officers answered, “Never so spoke man—as this Man.” 
The Pharisees, therefore, answered them, “Have you also been led astray? 
Did anyone out of the rulers believe in Him? Or out of the Pharisees? 
But this multitude, that is not knowing the Law, is accursed.” 
Nicodemus says to them—he who came by night to Him—being one of them, 
“Does our law judge the Man, if it may not hear from Him first, and know what He does?” 
They answered and said to him, “Are you also out of Galilee? Search and see that a prophet has not risen out of Galilee”;  
and each one went on to his house, but Jesus went on to the Mount of Olives. 
