Revelation.
Chapter 14.
And I saw, and behold, a Lamb was standing on Mount Zion, and with Him one hundred forty-four thousand, having the Name of His Father written on their foreheads; 
and I heard a voice out of Heaven, as a voice of many waters, and as a voice of great thunder, and I heard a voice of harpists harping with their harps, 
and they sing, as it were, a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures, and the elders, and no one was able to learn the song except the one hundred forty-four thousand who have been bought from the earth; 
these are they who were not defiled with women, for they are virgin; these are they who are following the Lamb wherever He may go; these were bought from among men—a first-fruit to God and to the Lamb— 
and in their mouth there was not found guile, for they are unblemished before the throne of God. 
And I saw another messenger flying in midair, having continuous good news to proclaim to those dwelling on the earth, and to every nation, and tribe, and tongue, and people, 
saying in a great voice, “Fear God, and give to Him glory, because the hour of His judgment came, and worship Him who made the sky, and the land, and sea, and fountains of waters.” 
And another messenger followed, saying, “Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, because of the wine of the wrath of her whoredom she has given to all nations to drink.” 
And a third messenger followed them, saying in a great voice, “If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, 
he also will drink of the wine of the wrath of God that has been mingled unmixed in the cup of His anger, and he will be tormented in fire and brimstone before the holy messengers, and before the Lamb, 
and the smoke of their torment goes up through ages of ages; and they have no rest day and night, who are worshiping the beast and his image, also if any receive the mark of his name. 
Here is endurance of the holy ones; here are those keeping the commands of God, and the faith of Jesus.” 
And I heard a voice out of Heaven saying to me, “Write: Blessed are the dead who are dying in the LORD from this time!” “Yes,” says the Spirit, “That they may rest from their labors—and their works follow them!” 
And I saw, and behold, a white cloud, and on the cloud One sitting like a Son of Man, having on His head a golden garland, and in His hand a sharp sickle; 
and another messenger came forth out of the temple crying in a great voice to Him who is sitting on the cloud, “Send forth Your sickle and reap, because the hour of reaping has come to You, because the harvest of the earth has been ripe”; 
and He who is sitting on the cloud put forth His sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped. 
And another messenger came forth out of the temple that is in Heaven, having—he also—a sharp sickle, 
and another messenger came forth out from the altar, having authority over the fire, and he called with a great cry to him having the sharp sickle, saying, “Send forth your sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, because her grapes have come to perfection”; 
and the messenger put forth his sickle to the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of God; 
and the winepress was trodden outside of the city, and blood came forth out of the winepress—to the bridles of the horses, one thousand six hundred stadia. 
