Jeremiah.
Chapter 42.
And they come near—all the heads of the forces, and Johanan son of Kareah, and Jezaniah son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from the least even to the greatest— 
and they say to Jeremiah the prophet, “Please let our supplication fall before you, and pray for us to your God YHWH for all this remnant; for we have been left a few out of many, as your eyes see us; 
and your God YHWH declares to us the way in which we walk, and the thing that we do.” 
And Jeremiah the prophet says to them, “I have heard: behold, I am praying to your God YHWH according to your words, and it has come to pass, the whole word that YHWH answers you, I declare to you—I do not withhold a word from you.” 
And they have said to Jeremiah, “YHWH is against us for a true and faithful witness, if—according to all the word with which your God YHWH sends you to us—we do not do so. 
Whether it is good or evil, to the voice of our God YHWH, to whom we are sending you, we listen; because it is good for us when we listen to the voice of our God YHWH.” 
And it comes to pass, at the end of ten days, that there is a word of YHWH to Jeremiah, 
and he calls to Johanan son of Kareah, and to all the heads of the forces that are with him, and to all the people, from the least even to the greatest, 
and he says to them, “Thus said YHWH, God of Israel, to whom you sent me, to cause your supplication to fall before Him: 
If you certainly dwell in this land, then I have built you up, and I do not throw down; and I have planted you, and I do not pluck up; for I have relented concerning the calamity that I have done to you. 
Do not be afraid of the king of Babylon, whom you are afraid of; do not be afraid of him—a declaration of YHWH—for I am with you, to save you, and to deliver you from his hand. 
And I give mercies to you, and he has pitied you, and caused you to return to your own ground. 
And if you are saying, We do not dwell in this land—not to listen to the voice of your God YHWH, 
saying, No; but we enter the land of Egypt, that we see no war, and do not hear the sound of a horn, and are not hungry for bread; and we dwell there— 
And now, therefore, hear a word of YHWH, O remnant of Judah! Thus said YHWH of Hosts, God of Israel: If you really set your faces to enter Egypt, and have gone to sojourn there, 
then it has come to pass, the sword that you are afraid of, overtakes you there, in the land of Egypt; and the hunger, because of which you are sorrowful, cleaves after you there in Egypt, and there you die. 
Thus are all the men who have set their faces to enter Egypt to sojourn there; they die—by sword, by hunger, and by pestilence, and there is not a remnant and an escaped one to them, because of the calamity that I am bringing in on them; 
for thus said YHWH of Hosts, God of Israel: As My anger and My fury have been poured out on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so My fury is poured out on you in your entering Egypt, and you have been for an execration, and for an astonishment, and for a reviling, and for a reproach, and you do not see this place anymore. 
YHWH has spoken against you, O remnant of Judah, do not enter Egypt: certainly know that I have testified against you today; 
for you have showed yourselves perverse in your souls, for you sent me to your God YHWH, saying, Pray for us to our God YHWH, and according to all that our God YHWH says, so declare to us, and we have done it; 
and I declare to you today, and you have not listened to the voice of your God YHWH, and to anything with which He has sent me to you. 
And now, certainly know that by sword, by famine, and by pestilence you die, in the place that you have desired to go to sojourn there.” 
