Genesis.
Chapter 19.
And two of the messengers come toward Sodom at evening, and Lot is sitting at the gate of Sodom, and Lot sees, and rises to meet them, and bows himself—face to the earth, 
and he says, “Now behold, my lords, please turn aside to the house of your servant, and lodge, and wash your feet—then you have risen early and gone on your way”; and they say, “No, but we lodge in the broad place.” 
And he presses on them greatly, and they turn aside to him, and come into his house; and he makes a banquet for them, and has baked unleavened things; and they eat. 
Before they lie down, the men of the city—men of Sodom—have surrounded the house, from young even to aged, all the people from the extremity; 
and they call to Lot and say to him, “Where are the men who have come to you tonight? Bring them out to us, and we know them.” 
And Lot goes out to them, to the opening, and the door has shut behind him, 
and says, “Please, my brothers, do not do evil; 
now behold, I have two daughters who have not known anyone; please let me bring them out to you, and do to them as is good in your eyes; only do nothing to these men, for therefore they have come in within the shadow of my roof.” 
And they say, “Come near here”; they also say, “This one has come to sojourn, and he certainly judges! Now, we do evil to you more than to them”; and they press against the man, against Lot greatly, and come near to break the door. 
And the men put forth their hand, and bring in Lot to them, into the house, and have shut the door; 
and the men who are at the opening of the house they have struck with blindness, from small even to great, and they weary themselves to find the opening. 
And the men say to Lot, “Whom have you here still? Son-in-law, your sons also, and your daughters, and all whom you have in the city, bring out from this place; 
for we are destroying this place, for their cry has been great before the face of YHWH, and YHWH does send us to destroy it.” 
And Lot goes out and speaks to his sons-in-law, those taking his daughters, and says, “Rise, go out from this place, for YHWH is destroying the city”; and he is as one mocking in the eyes of his sons-in-law. 
And when the dawn has ascended, then the messengers press on Lot, saying, “Rise, take your wife, and your two daughters who are found present, lest you are consumed in the iniquity of the city.” 
And he lingers, and the men lay hold on his hand, and on the hand of his wife, and on the hand of his two daughters, through the mercy of YHWH to him, and they bring him out, and cause him to rest outside the city. 
And it comes to pass, when he has brought them outside, that he says, “Escape for your life; do not look behind you, nor stand in all the circuit; escape to the mountain, lest you are consumed.” 
And Lot says to them, “Oh not so, my lord; 
now behold, your servant has found grace in your eyes, and you make great your kindness which you have done with me by saving my life, and I am unable to escape to the mountain, lest the evil cleave to me and I have died; 
now behold, this city is near to flee there, and it is little; please let me escape there (is it not little?) that my soul may live.” 
And he says to him, “Behold, I have also accepted your face for this thing, without overthrowing the city for which you have spoken; 
hurry, escape there, for I am not able to do anything until your entering there”; therefore he calls the name of the city Zoar. 
The sun has gone out on the earth, and Lot has entered into Zoar, 
and YHWH has rained on Sodom and on Gomorrah brimstone and fire from YHWH, from the heavens; 
and He overthrows these cities, and all the circuit, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which is shooting up from the ground. 
And his wife looks from behind him, and she becomes a pillar of salt! 
And Abraham rises early in the morning to the place where he has stood before the face of YHWH; 
and he looks on the face of Sodom and Gomorrah, and on all the face of the land of the circuit, and sees, and behold, the smoke of the land went up as smoke of the furnace. 
And it comes to pass, in God’s destroying the cities of the circuit, that God remembers Abraham, and sends Lot out of the midst of the overthrow in the overthrowing of the cities in which Lot dwelt. 
And Lot goes up out of Zoar, and dwells in the mountain, and his two daughters with him, for he has been afraid of dwelling in Zoar, and he dwells in a cave, he and his two daughters. 
And the firstborn says to the younger, “Our father is old, and there is not a man in the earth to come in to us, as is the way of all the earth; 
come, we cause our father to drink wine, and lie with him, and preserve a seed from our father.” 
And they cause their father to drink wine on that night; and the firstborn goes in and lies with her father, and he has not known in her lying down or in her rising up. 
And it comes to pass, on the next day, that the firstborn says to the younger, “Behold, I have lain with my father last night: we also cause him to drink wine tonight, then go in, lie with him, and we preserve a seed from our father.” 
And they cause their father to drink wine on that night also, and the younger rises and lies with him, and he has not known in her lying down or in her rising up. 
And the two daughters of Lot conceive from their father, 
and the firstborn bears a son and calls his name Moab: he is father of Moab to this day. 
As for the younger, she has also born a son and calls his name Ben-Ammi: he is father of the sons of Ammon to this day. 
