1 Chronicles.
Chapter 12.
And these are those coming to David at Ziklag, while shut up because of Saul son of Kish, and they are among the mighty ones, helping the battle, 
armed with bow, right and left handed, with stones, and with arrows, with bows, of the brothers of Saul, of Benjamin. 
The head is Ahiezer, and Joash, sons of Shemaab the Gibeathite, and Jeziel, and Pelet, sons of Azmaveth, and Berachah, and Jehu the Antothite, 
and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty one among the thirty, and over the thirty, and Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Josabad the Gederathite. 
Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite; 
Elkanah, and Jesiah, and Azareel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam the Korahites, 
and Joelah, and Zebadiah, sons of Jeroham of Gedor. 
And of the Gadite there have been separated to David, to the fortress, to the wilderness, mighty men of valor, men of the host for battle, setting in array buckler and spear, and their faces are as the face of the lion, and as roes on the mountains for speed: 
Ezer the head, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third, 
Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, 
Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh, 
Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 
Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh. 
These are of the sons of Gad, heads of the host; the least is one of one hundred, and the greatest, of one thousand; 
these are they who have passed over the Jordan in the first month—and it is full over all its banks—and cause all those in the valley to flee to the east and to the west. 
And some from the sons of Benjamin and Judah came to David at the stronghold, 
and David goes out before them, and answers and says to them, “If you have come to me for peace, to help me, I have a heart to unite with you; and if to betray me to my adversaries—without violence in my hands—the God of our fathers sees and reproves.” 
And the Spirit has clothed Amasai, head of the captains: “To you, O David, and with you, O son of Jesse—peace! Peace to you, and peace to your helper, for your God has helped you”; and David receives them, and puts them among the heads of the troop. 
And some from Manasseh have defected to David in his coming with the Philistines against Israel to battle—and they did not help them, for by counsel the princes of the Philistines sent him away, saying, “He defects with our heads to his master Saul.” 
In his going to Ziglag there have fallen to him from Manasseh: Adnah, and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zillthai, heads of the thousands who are of Manasseh; 
and they have helped with David over the troop, for all of them are mighty men of valor, and they are captains in the host, 
for at that time, day by day, they come to David to help him, until it is a great camp, like a camp of God. 
And these are the numbers of the head, of the armed men of the host; they have come to David at Hebron to turn around the kingdom of Saul to him, according to the mouth of YHWH. 
The sons of Judah, carrying buckler and spear, are six thousand and eight hundred, armed ones of the host. 
Of the sons of Simeon, mighty men of valor for the host, are seven thousand and one hundred. 
Of the sons of Levi are four thousand and six hundred; 
and Jehoiada is the leader of the Aaronite, and with him are three thousand and seven hundred, 
and Zadok, a young man, a mighty man of valor, and of the house of his father are twenty-two heads. 
And of the sons of Benjamin, brothers of Saul, are three thousand, and until now their greater part are keeping the charge of the house of Saul. 
And of the sons of Ephraim are twenty thousand and eight hundred, mighty men of valor, men of renown, according to the house of their fathers. 
And of the half of the tribe of Manasseh are eighteen thousand, who have been defined by name, to come to cause David to reign. 
And of the sons of Issachar, having understanding for the times, to know what Israel should do; their heads are two hundred, and all their brothers are at their command. 
Of Zebulun, going forth to the host, arranging battle with all instruments of battle, are fifty thousand, and keeping rank without a double heart. 
And of Naphtali, one thousand heads, and with them, with buckler and spear, are thirty-seven thousand. 
And of the Danite, arranging battle, are twenty-eight thousand and six hundred. 
And of Asher, going forth to the host, to arrange battle, are forty thousand. 
And from beyond the Jordan, of the Reubenite, and of the Gadite, and of the half of the tribe of Manasseh, with all instruments of the host for battle, are one hundred and twenty thousand. 
All these are men of war, keeping rank—they have come to Hebron with a perfect heart, to cause David to reign over all Israel, and also all the rest of Israel are of one heart, to cause David to reign, 
and they are there, with David, three days, eating and drinking, for their brothers have prepared for them. 
And also those near to them—to Issachar, and Zebulun, and Naphtali—are bringing in bread on donkeys, and on camels, and on mules, and on oxen—food of fine flour, fig-cakes and grape-cakes, and wine, and oil, and oxen, and sheep, in abundance, for joy is in Israel. 
