Numbers.
Chapter 15.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you have said to them: When you come into the land of your dwellings, which I am giving to you, 
then you have prepared a fire-offering to YHWH, a burnt-offering or a sacrifice, for separating a vow or free-will offering, or in your appointed things, to make a refreshing fragrance to YHWH, out of the herd or out of the flock. 
And he who is bringing his offering near to YHWH has brought a present near of a tenth part of flour mixed with a fourth of the hin of oil; 
and you prepare a fourth of the hin of wine for a drink-offering, with the burnt-offering or for the sacrifice, for one lamb; 
or for a ram you prepare a present of two-tenth parts of flour mixed with a third of the hin of oil; 
and you bring a third part of the hin of wine near for a drink-offering—a refreshing fragrance to YHWH. 
And when you make a son of the herd a burnt-offering, or a sacrifice for separating a vow, or peace-offerings to YHWH, 
then he has brought near for the son of the herd a present of three-tenth parts of flour mixed with a half of the hin of oil; 
and you bring a half of the hin of wine near for a drink-offering, for a fire-offering of refreshing fragrance to YHWH; 
thus it is done for one ox, or for one ram, or for a lamb of the sheep or of the goats. 
According to the number that you prepare, so you do to each, according to their number; 
every native does thus with these, for bringing a fire-offering near of refreshing fragrance to YHWH; 
and when a sojourner sojourns with you, or whoever is in your midst throughout your generations, and he has made a fire-offering of refreshing fragrance to YHWH, as you do so he does. 
One statute is for you of the congregation and for the sojourner who is sojourning, a continuous statute throughout your generations: as you are so is the sojourner before YHWH; 
one law and one ordinance is for you and for the sojourner who is sojourning with you.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you have said to them: In your coming into the land to where I am bringing you in, 
then it has been, in your eating of the bread of the land, you raise up a raised-offering to YHWH; 
you raise up a cake of the first of your dough as a raised-offering; as the raised-offering of a threshing-floor, so you raise it up. 
You give to YHWH from the first of your dough as a raised-offering throughout your generations. 
And when you err, and do not do all these commands which YHWH has spoken to Moses— 
the whole that YHWH has charged on you by the hand of Moses, from the day that YHWH has commanded and from now on, throughout your generations— 
then it has been, if from the eyes of the congregation it has been done through ignorance, that all the congregation has prepared one bullock, a son of the herd, for a burnt-offering, for refreshing fragrance to YHWH, and its present, and its drink-offering, according to the ordinance, and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering. 
And the priest has made atonement for all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and it has been forgiven them, for it is ignorance, and they have brought in their offering, a fire-offering to YHWH, and their sin-offering before YHWH for their ignorance; 
and it has been forgiven to all the congregation of the sons of Israel and to the sojourner who is sojourning in their midst, for that all the people did it through ignorance. 
And if one person sins through ignorance, then he has brought a female goat near, daughter of a year, for a sin-offering; 
and the priest has made atonement for the person who is erring, in his sinning through ignorance before YHWH, by making atonement for him, and it has been forgiven him; 
one law is for yourselves—for the native among the sons of Israel and for the sojourner who is sojourning in their midst—for him who is doing anything through ignorance. 
And the person who does evil with a high hand—of the native or of the sojourner—he is reviling YHWH, and that person has been cut off from the midst of his people; 
because he despised the word of YHWH and has broken His command, that person is certainly cut off; his iniquity is on him.” 
And the sons of Israel are in the wilderness, and they find a man gathering wood on the Sabbath day, 
and those finding him gathering wood bring him near to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation, 
and they place him in confinement, for it is not explained what is to be done to him. 
And YHWH says to Moses, “The man is certainly put to death by all the congregation stoning him with stones at the outside of the camp.” 
And all the congregation brings him out to the outside of the camp and stone him with stones, and he dies, as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you have commanded to them, and they have made fringes on the skirts of their garments for themselves, throughout their generations, and they have put a ribbon of blue on the fringe of the skirt, 
and it has been to you for a fringe, and you have seen it, and have remembered all the commands of YHWH, and have done them, and you do not search after your heart and after your eyes, after which you are going whoring, 
so that you remember and have done all My commands, and you have been holy to your God. 
I am your God YHWH, who has brought you out from the land of Egypt to become your God; I am your God YHWH.” 
