2 Samuel.
Chapter 9.
And David says, “Is there yet any left of the house of Saul, and I do with him kindness because of Jonathan?” 
And the house of Saul has a servant, and his name is Ziba, and they call for him to David; and the king says to him, “Are you Ziba?” And he says, “Your servant.” 
And the king says, “Is there not yet a man of the house of Saul, and I do with him the kindness of God?” And Ziba says to the king, “Jonathan has yet a son—lame.” 
And the king says to him, “Where is he?” And Ziba says to the king, “Behold, he is in the house of Machir, son of Ammiel, in Behold-Debar.” 
And King David sends, and takes him out of the house of Machir son of Ammiel, of Behold-Debar, 
and Mephibosheth son of Jonathan, son of Saul, comes to David, and falls on his face, and pays respect, and David says, “Mephibosheth”; and he says, “Behold, your servant.” 
And David says to him, “Do not be afraid; for I certainly do with you kindness because of your father Jonathan, and have given back to you all the field of your father Saul, and you continually eat bread at my table.” 
And he bows himself and says, “What is your servant, that you have turned to the dead dog—such as I?” 
And the king calls to Ziba servant of Saul and says to him, “All that was of Saul and of all his house, I have given to the son of your lord, 
and you have served the land for him, you and your sons, and your servants, and have brought in, and there has been bread for the son of your lord, and he has eaten it; and Mephibosheth, son of your lord, continually eats bread at my table”; and Ziba has fifteen sons and twenty servants. 
And Ziba says to the king, “According to all that my lord the king commands his servant, so your servant does.” “As for Mephibosheth,” says the king, “he is eating at my table as one of the sons of the king.” 
And Mephibosheth has a young son, and his name is Micha, and everyone dwelling in the house of Ziba are servants to Mephibosheth. 
And Mephibosheth is dwelling in Jerusalem, for he is continually eating at the table of the king, and he is lame in his two feet. 
