Luke.
Chapter 2.
And it came to pass in those days, there went forth a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world be registered— 
this census first came to pass when Quirinius was governor of Syria— 
and all were going to be registered, each to his proper city, 
and Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David, that is called Beth-Lehem, because of his being of the house and family of David, 
to register himself with Mary his betrothed wife, being with Child. 
And it came to pass, in their being there, the days were fulfilled for her bringing forth, 
and she brought forth her Son—the firstborn, and wrapped Him up, and laid Him down in the manger, because there was not a place for them in the guest-chamber. 
And there were shepherds in the same region, lodging in the field and keeping the night-watches over their flock, 
and behold, a messenger of the LORD stood over them, and the glory of the LORD shone around them, and they feared with a great fear. 
And the messenger said to them, “Do not fear, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be to all the people, 
because today in the city of David a Savior was born to you, who is Christ the LORD! 
And this is the sign to you: you will find a Baby wrapped up, lying in the manger.” 
And suddenly there came with the messenger a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God, and saying, 
“Glory in the highest to God, and on earth peace, among men—good will!” 
And it came to pass, when the messengers were gone away from them to the heavens, that the men, the shepherds, said to one another, “We may indeed go over to Beth-Lehem and see this thing that has come to pass, that the LORD made known to us!” 
And they came, having hurried, and found both Mary, and Joseph, and the Baby lying in the manger, 
and having seen, they made known abroad concerning the saying spoken to them concerning the Child. 
And all who heard it wondered concerning the things spoken to them by the shepherds; 
and Mary was preserving all these things, pondering them in her heart; 
and the shepherds turned back, glorifying and praising God for all those things they heard and saw, as it was spoken to them. 
And when eight days were fulfilled to circumcise the Child, then was His Name called Jesus, having been so called by the messenger before His being conceived in the womb. 
And when the days of their purification were fulfilled, according to the Law of Moses, they brought Him up to Jerusalem, to present to the LORD, 
as it has been written in the Law of the LORD: “Every male opening a womb will be called holy to the LORD,” 
and to give a sacrifice, according to that said in the Law of the LORD: “A pair of turtle-doves, or two young pigeons.” 
And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name is Simeon, and this man is righteous and devout, looking for the comforting of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was on him, 
and it has been divinely told him by the Holy Spirit—not to see death before he may see the Christ of the LORD. 
And he came in the Spirit into the temple, and in the parents bringing in the child Jesus, for their doing according to the custom of the Law regarding Him, 
then he took Him in his arms, and blessed God, and he said, 
“Now You send Your servant away, O LORD, according to Your word, in peace, 
because my eyes saw Your salvation, 
which You prepared before the face of all the peoples, 
a light to the uncovering of nations, and the glory of Your people Israel.” 
And Joseph and His mother were wondering at the things spoken concerning Him, 
and Simeon blessed them and said to His mother Mary, “Behold, this One is set for the falling and rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign spoken against— 
(and also a sword will pass through your own soul)—that the reasonings of many hearts may be revealed.” 
And there was Anna, a prophetess, daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher, she was much advanced in days, having lived with a husband seven years from her virginity, 
and she is a widow of about eighty-four years, who did not depart from the temple, serving with fasts and supplications, night and day, 
and she, at that hour, having come in, was confessing, likewise, to the LORD, and was speaking concerning Him to all those looking for redemption in Jerusalem. 
And when they completed all things according to the Law of the LORD, they turned back to Galilee, to their city of Nazareth; 
and the Child grew and was strengthened in spirit, being filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was on Him. 
And His parents were going yearly to Jerusalem, at the Celebration of the Passover, 
and when He became twelve years old, they having gone up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the celebration, 
and having finished the days, in their returning the child Jesus remained behind in Jerusalem, and Joseph and His mother did not know, 
and having supposed Him to be in the company, they went a day’s journey, and were seeking Him among the relatives and among the acquaintances, 
and having not found Him, they turned back to Jerusalem seeking Him. 
And it came to pass, after three days they found Him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both hearing them and questioning them, 
and all those hearing Him were astonished at His understanding and answers. 
And having seen Him, they were amazed, and His mother said to Him, “Child, why did You do this to us? Behold, Your father and I, sorrowing, were seeking You.” 
And He said to them, “Why is it that you were seeking Me? Did you not know that it is necessary for Me to be in the things of My Father?” 
And they did not understand the saying that He spoke to them, 
and He went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and He was subject to them, and His mother was keeping all these sayings in her heart, 
and Jesus was advancing in wisdom, and in stature, and in favor with God and men. 
