Exodus.
Chapter 28.
“And you, bring your brother Aaron near to you, and his sons with him, from the midst of the sons of Israel, for his being priest to Me, even Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar, sons of Aaron; 
and you have made holy garments for your brother Aaron, for glory and for beauty; 
and you speak to all the wise of heart, whom I have filled with a spirit of wisdom, and they have made the garments of Aaron to sanctify him for his being priest to Me. 
And these are the garments which they make: a breastplate, and an ephod, and an upper robe, and an embroidered coat, a turban, and a girdle; indeed, they have made holy garments for your brother Aaron, and for his sons, for his being priest to Me. 
And they take the gold, and the blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, and the linen, 
and have made the ephod of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen, the work of a designer; 
it has two shoulders joining at its two ends, and it is joined. 
And the girdle of his ephod which is on him, according to its work, is of the same, of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen. 
And you have taken the two shoham stones, and have engraved the names of the sons of Israel on them; 
six of their names on the first stone, and the names of the remaining six on the second stone, according to their births; 
the work of an engraver of stone, as engravings of a signet—you engrave the names of the sons of Israel on the two stones; encompassing, you make them with filigrees of gold. 
And you have set the two stones on the shoulders of the ephod—stones of memorial to the sons of Israel—and Aaron has borne their names before YHWH, on his two shoulders, for a memorial. 
And you have made filigrees of gold, 
and you make them with two chains of pure gold as wreathed work, work of thick bands, and you have put the thick chains on the filigrees. 
And you have made a breastplate of judgment, the work of a designer; you make it according to the work of the ephod; you make it of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen; 
it is square, doubled, a span its length, and a span its breadth. 
And you have set settings of stone in it, four rows of stone: a row of sardius, topaz, and carbuncle is the first row; 
and the second row is emerald, sapphire, and diamond; 
and the third row is opal, agate, and amethyst; 
and the fourth row is beryl, and onyx, and jasper; they are embroidered with gold in their settings, 
and the stones are according to the names of the sons of Israel, twelve according to their names, as engravings of a signet, each with his name; they are for the twelve tribes. 
And you have made wreathed chains on the breastplate, the work of thick bands of pure gold; 
and you have made two rings of gold on the breastplate, and have put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate; 
and you have put the two thick bands of gold on the two rings at the ends of the breastplate; 
and you put the two ends of the two thick bands on the two filigrees, and you have put them on the shoulders of the ephod toward the front of its face. 
And you have made two rings of gold, and have set them on the two ends of the breastplate, on its border, which is toward the side of the ephod within it; 
and you have made two rings of gold, and have put them on the two shoulders of the ephod, from beneath, in front of its face, close by its joining, above the girdle of the ephod, 
and they bind the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a ribbon of blue, to be above the girdle of the ephod, and the breastplate is not loosed from the ephod. 
And Aaron has borne the names of the sons of Israel in the breastplate of judgment, on his heart, in his going into the holy place, for a memorial before YHWH continually. 
And you have put the Lights and the Perfections into the breastplate of judgment, and they have been on the heart of Aaron, in his going in before YHWH, and Aaron has borne the judgment of the sons of Israel on his heart before YHWH continually. 
And you have made the upper robe of the ephod completely of blue, 
and the opening for his head has been in its midst; there is a border for its opening all around—the work of a weaver—and there is as the opening of a linen habergeon for it; it is not torn. 
And you have made on its hem pomegranates of blue, and purple, and scarlet, on its hem all around, and bells of gold in their midst all around; 
a bell of gold and a pomegranate and a bell of gold and a pomegranate are on the hems of the upper robe all around. 
And it has been on Aaron to minister in, and its sound has been heard in his coming into the holy place before YHWH, and in his going out, and he does not die. 
And you have made a flower of pure gold, and have engraved engravings of a signet on it: Holy to YHWH; 
and you have put it on a blue ribbon, and it has been on the turban—it is toward the front of the face of the turban; 
and it has been on the forehead of Aaron, and Aaron has borne the iniquity of the holy things which the sons of Israel hallow, even all their holy gifts; and it has been on his forehead continually for a pleasing thing for them before YHWH. 
And you have embroidered the coat of linen, and have made a turban of linen, and you make a girdle—the work of an embroiderer. 
And you make coats for the sons of Aaron, and you have made girdles for them, and you make caps for them, for glory and for beauty; 
and you have clothed your brother Aaron with them, and his sons with him, and have anointed them, and have consecrated their hand, and have sanctified them, and they have been priests to Me. 
And make linen trousers for them to cover the naked flesh; they are from the loins even to the thighs; 
and they have been on Aaron and on his sons in their going into the Tent of Meeting, or in their drawing near to the altar to minister in the holy place, and they do not bear iniquity nor have they died; it is a continuous statute to him and to his seed after him.” 
