1 Kings.
Chapter 7.
And Solomon has built his own house in thirteen years, and he finishes all his house. 
And he builds the House of the Forest of Lebanon; its length is one hundred cubits, and its breadth fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits, on four rows of cedar pillars, and cedar-beams on the pillars; 
and it is covered with cedar above, on the sides that are on the forty-five pillars, fifteen in the row. 
And frames are in three rows, and window is toward window three times. 
And all the openings and the doorposts are of square frame; and window is toward window three times. 
And he has made the porch of the pillars; its length fifty cubits, and its breadth thirty cubits, and the porch is before them, and pillars and a thick place are before them. 
And the porch of the throne where he judges—the porch of judgment—he has made, and it is covered with cedar from the floor to the floor. 
As for his house where he dwells, the other court is within the porch—it has been as this work; and he makes a house for the daughter of Pharaoh—whom Solomon has taken—like this porch. 
All these are of precious stones, according to the measures of hewn work, sawn with a saw, inside and outside, even from the foundation to the coping, and at the outside, to the great court. 
And the foundation is of precious stones, great stones, stones of ten cubits, and stones of eight cubits; 
and precious stones are above, according to the measures of hewn work, and cedar; 
and the great court around is three rows of hewn work, and a row of cedar-beams, even for the inner court of the house of YHWH, and for the porch of the house. 
And King Solomon sends and takes Hiram out of Tyre— 
he is the son of a woman, a widow, of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father is a man of Tyre, a worker in bronze, and he is filled with the wisdom and the understanding, and the knowledge to do all work in bronze—and he comes to King Solomon, and does all his work. 
And he forms the two pillars of bronze; eighteen cubits is the height of the first pillar, and a cord of twelve cubits goes around the second pillar. 
And he has made two chapiters to put on the tops of the pillars, cast in bronze; five cubits the height of the first capital, and five cubits the height of the second capital. 
Nets of network, wreaths of chain-work are for the chapiters that are on the top of the pillars, seven for the first capital, and seven for the second capital. 
And he makes the pillars, and two rows around on the one network, to cover the chapiters that are on the top, with the pomegranates, and so he has made for the second capital. 
And the chapiters that are on the top of the pillars are of lily-work in the porch, four cubits; 
and the chapiters on the two pillars also have pomegranates above, close by the protuberance that is beside the net; and the pomegranates are two hundred, in rows around on the second capital. 
And he raises up the pillars for the porch of the temple, and he raises up the right pillar, and calls its name Jachin, and he raises up the left pillar, and calls its name Boaz; 
and on the top of the pillars is lily-work; and the work of the pillars is completed. 
And he makes the molten sea, ten by the cubit from its edge to its edge; it is round all about, and its height is five by the cubit, and a line of thirty by the cubit surrounds it around; 
and knobs beneath its brim around are going around it, ten by the cubit, going around the sea; the knobs are in two rows, cast in its being cast. 
It is standing on twelve oxen, three facing the north, and three facing the west, and three facing the south, and three facing the east, and the sea is on them above, and all their back parts are inward. 
And its thickness is a handbreadth, and its edge is as the work of the edge of a cup, as flowers of lilies; it contains two thousand baths. 
And he makes the ten bases of bronze; the length of the one base is four by the cubit, and its breadth is four by the cubit, and its height is three by the cubit. 
And this is the work of the base: they have borders, and the borders are between the joinings; 
and on the borders that are between the joinings are lions, oxen, and cherubim, and on the joinings a base above, and beneath the lions and the oxen are additions—sloping work. 
And four wheels of bronze are for the one base, and axles of bronze; and its four corners have shoulders—the molten shoulders are under the laver, beside each addition. 
And its mouth within the capital and above is by the cubit, and its mouth is round, the work of the base, a cubit and half a cubit; and also on its mouth are carvings and their borders, square, not round. 
And the four wheels are under the borders, and the spokes of the wheels are in the base, and the height of the one wheel is a cubit and half a cubit. 
And the work of the wheels is as the work of the wheel of a chariot, their spokes, and their axles, and their felloes, and their naves; the whole is molten. 
And four shoulders are for the four corners of the one base; its shoulders are out of the base. 
And in the top of the base is the half of a cubit in the height all around; and on the top of the base its spokes and its borders are of the same. 
And he engraves on the tablets of its spokes, and on its borders, cherubim, lions, and palm-trees, according to the void space of each, and additions all around. 
Thus he has made the ten bases; they all have one casting, one measure, one form. 
And he makes ten lavers of bronze; the one laver contains forty baths and the one laver is four by the cubit; one laver on the one base is for each of the ten bases; 
and he puts the five bases on the right side of the house, and five on the left side of the house, and he has put the sea on the right side of the house eastward—from toward the south. 
And Hiram makes the lavers, and the shovels, and the bowls; and Hiram completes to do all the work that he made for King Solomon, for the house of YHWH: 
two pillars, and bowls of the chapiters that are on the top of the two pillars, and the two nets to cover the two bowls of the chapiters that are on the top of the pillars; 
and the four hundred pomegranates for the two nets (two rows of pomegranates for the one net to cover the two bowls of the chapiters that are on the front of the pillars); 
and the ten bases, and the ten lavers on the bases; 
and the one sea, the twelve oxen under the sea, 
and the pots, and the shovels, and the bowls; and all these vessels, that Hiram has made for King Solomon for the house of YHWH, are of polished bronze. 
The king has cast them in the circuit of the Jordan, in the thick soil of the ground, between Succoth and Zarthan. 
And Solomon places the whole of the vessels; because of the very great abundance, the weight of the bronze has not been searched out. 
And Solomon makes all the vessels that are in the house of YHWH: the altar of gold, and the table of gold (on which is the Bread of the Presentation), 
and the lampstands, five on the right, and five on the left, before the oracle, of refined gold, and the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, of gold, 
and the basins, and the snuffers, and the bowls, and the spoons, and the censers, of refined gold, and the hinges for the doors of the inner-house, for the Holy of Holies, for the doors of the house of the temple, of gold. 
And it is complete—all the work that King Solomon has made for the house of YHWH, and Solomon brings in the sanctified things of his father David; he has put the silver, and the gold, and the vessels in the treasuries of the house of YHWH. 
