James.
Chapter 3.
Do not let many be teachers, my brothers, having known that we will receive greater judgment, 
for we all make many stumbles; if anyone does not stumble in word, this one is a perfect man, able to also bridle the whole body; 
behold, the bits we put into the mouths of the horses for their obeying us, and we direct their whole body; 
behold, also the ships, being so great, and being driven by fierce winds, are directed by a very small rudder, wherever the impulse of the one steering wills, 
so also the tongue is a little member, and boasts greatly; behold, how much forest a little fire kindles! 
And the tongue is a fire, the world of the unrighteousness, so the tongue is set in our members, which is spotting our whole body, and is setting on fire the course of nature, and is set on fire by Gehenna. 
For every nature, both of beasts and of birds, both of creeping things and things of the sea, is subdued, and has been subdued, by the human nature, 
but no one of men is able to subdue the tongue—it is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison; 
with it we bless the God and Father, and with it we curse the men made according to the likeness of God; 
out of the same mouth comes forth blessing and cursing; it does not need, my brothers, these things to so happen; 
does the fountain out of the same opening pour forth the sweet and the bitter? 
Is a fig tree able, my brothers, to make olives? Or a vine figs? Neither is salty water able to have made sweet water. 
Who is wise and intelligent among you? Let him show his works out of good behavior in meekness of wisdom, 
yet, if you have bitter zeal, and rivalry in your heart, do not glory, nor lie against the truth; 
this wisdom is not descending from above, but earthly, physical, demon-like, 
for where zeal and rivalry are, there is insurrection and every evil matter; 
but the wisdom from above, first, indeed, is pure, then peaceable, gentle, well-convinced, full of kindness and good fruits, uncontentious, and unhypocritical— 
and the fruit of righteousness in peace is sown to those making peace. 
