Philippians.
Chapter 4.
So then, my brothers, beloved and longed for, my joy and garland, so stand in the LORD, beloved. 
I exhort Euodia, and I exhort Syntyche, to be of the same mind in the LORD; 
and I also ask you, genuine yoke-fellow, be assisting those women who strove along with me in the good news, with Clement also, and the others, my fellow-workers, whose names are in the Scroll of Life. 
Rejoice in the LORD always; again I will say, rejoice! 
Let your reasonableness be known to all men; the LORD is near; 
be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer, and by supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God; 
and the peace of God, that is surpassing all understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus. 
As to the rest, brothers, as many things as are true, as many as are revered, as many as are righteous, as many as are pure, as many as are lovely, as many as are of good report, if any worthiness, and if any praise, think on these things; 
the things that you also learned, and receive, and hear, and saw in me, do those, and the God of peace will be with you. 
And I rejoiced in the LORD greatly, that now at length you flourished again in caring for me, for which also you were caring, and lacked opportunity; 
I do not say that in respect of want, for I learned in the things in which I am—to be content; 
I have known both to be abased, and I have known to abound; in everything and in all things I have been initiated, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in want. 
I have strength for all things, in Christ’s strengthening me; 
but you did well, having shared in my tribulation; 
and you have known, even you Philippians, that in the beginning of the good news when I went forth from Macedonia, no assembly communicated with me in regard to giving and receiving except you only; 
because in Thessalonica also, both once and again you sent to my need; 
not that I seek after the gift, but I seek after the fruit that is overflowing to your account; 
and I have all things, and abound; I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things from you—an odor of a refreshing fragrance—a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing to God: 
and my God will supply all your need, according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus; 
and to God, even our Father, is the glory through the ages of the ages. Amen. 
Every holy one in Christ Jesus greets you; the brothers with me greet you; 
all the holy ones greet you, and especially those of Caesar’s house. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ is with you all! Amen.
