Genesis.
Chapter 7.
And YHWH says to Noah, “Come, you and all your house, into the Ark, for I have seen you are righteous before Me in this generation; 
you take seven pairs from all the clean beasts to yourself, a male and its female; and of the beasts which are not clean—two, a male and its female; 
also, seven pairs from each bird of the heavens, a male and a female, to keep alive seed on the face of all the earth; 
for after seven more days I am sending rain on the earth for forty days and forty nights, and have wiped away all the substance that I have made from off the face of the ground.” 
And Noah does according to all that YHWH has commanded him. 
And Noah is a son of six hundred years, and the flood of waters has been on the earth. 
And Noah goes—and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him—into the Ark, out of the presence of the waters of the flood; 
from the clean beast, and from the beast that is not clean, and from the bird, and of everything that is creeping on the ground, 
they have come to Noah two by two into the Ark, a male and a female, as God has commanded Noah. 
And it comes to pass, after seven days, that waters of the flood have been on the earth. 
In the six hundredth year of the life of Noah, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on this day all the fountains of the great deep have been broken up, and the network of the heavens has been opened, 
and the shower is on the earth for forty days and forty nights. 
On this very same day Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, sons of Noah, and Noah’s wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, went into the Ark— 
they, and every living creature after its kind, and every beast after its kind, and every creeping thing that is creeping on the earth after its kind, and every bird after its kind (every bird, every wing). 
And they come to Noah, into the Ark, two by two of all the flesh in which is a living spirit; 
and they that are coming in, male and female of all flesh, have come in as God has commanded him, and YHWH closes it for him. 
And the flood is on the earth for forty days, and the waters multiply and lift up the Ark, and it is raised up from off the earth; 
and the waters are mighty and multiply exceedingly on the earth; and the Ark goes on the face of the waters. 
And the waters have been very, very mighty on the earth, and all the high mountains are covered which are under the whole heavens; 
the waters prevailed from above the mountains, and cover them fifteen cubits; 
and all flesh expires that is moving on the earth, among bird, and among livestock, and among beast, and among every teeming thing which is teeming on the earth, and all mankind; 
all in whose nostrils is breath of a living spirit—of all that is in the dry land—have died. 
And all the substance that is on the face of the ground is wiped away—from man to beast, to creeping thing, and to bird of the heavens; indeed, they are wiped away from the earth, and only Noah is left, and those who are with him in the Ark; 
and the waters are mighty on the earth for one hundred and fifty days. 
