Romans.
Chapter 9.
Truth I say in Christ, I do not lie, my conscience bearing testimony with me in the Holy Spirit, 
that I have great grief and unceasing pain in my heart— 
for I was wishing, I myself, to be accursed from the Christ—for my brothers, my relatives, according to the flesh, 
who are Israelites, whose is the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the lawgiving, and the service, and the promises, 
whose are the fathers, and of whom is the Christ, according to the flesh, who is God over all, blessed for all ages. Amen. 
And it is not possible that the word of God has failed; for not all who are of Israel are these of Israel; 
nor because they are seed of Abraham are all children, but, “in Isaac will a seed be called to you”; 
that is, the children of the flesh—these are not children of God; but the children of the promise are reckoned for seed; 
for the word of promise is this: “According to this time I will come, and there will be to Sarah a son.” 
And not only so, but also Rebecca, having conceived by one—our father Isaac 
(for they being not yet born, neither having done anything good or evil, that the purpose of God, according to divine selection, might remain; not of works, but of Him who is calling), 
it was said to her, “The greater will serve the less”; 
according as it has been written: “Jacob I loved, and Esau I hated.” 
What, then, will we say? Unrighteousness is with God? Let it not be! 
For to Moses He says, “I will do kindness to whom I do kindness, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion”; 
so then—not of him who is willing, nor of him who is running, but of God who is doing kindness; 
for the Writing says to Pharaoh, “For this very thing I raised you up, that I might show in you My power, and that My Name might be declared in all the land”; 
so then, to whom He wills, He does kindness, and to whom He wills, He hardens. 
You will say, then, to me, “Why does He yet find fault? For who has resisted His counsel?” 
No, but, O man, who are you that are answering again to God? Will the thing formed say to Him who formed it, Why did you make me thus? 
Does the potter not have authority over the clay, out of the same lump to make one vessel to honor and one to dishonor? 
And if God, willing to show the wrath and to make known His power, endured, in much long suffering, vessels of wrath fitted for destruction, 
and that He might make known the riches of His glory on vessels of kindness, that He before prepared for glory, whom also He called—us— 
not only out of Jews, but also out of nations, 
as also in Hosea He says, “I will call what is not My people—My people; and her not beloved—Beloved, 
and it will be—in the place where it was said to them, You are not My people; there they will be called sons of the living God.” 
And Isaiah cries concerning Israel, “If the number of the sons of Israel may be as the sand of the sea, the remnant will be saved; 
for a matter He is finishing, and is cutting short in righteousness, because a matter cut short will the LORD do on the land.” 
And according as Isaiah says before, “Except the LORD of Hosts left to us a seed, we had become as Sodom, and we had been made like Gomorrah.” 
What, then, will we say? That nations who are not pursuing righteousness attained to righteousness, and righteousness that is of faith, 
and Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, did not arrive at a law of righteousness; 
why? Because—not by faith, but as by works of law; for they stumbled at the stone of stumbling, 
according as it has been written: “Behold, I place in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense; and everyone who is believing thereon will not be ashamed.” 
