John.
Chapter 21.
After these things Jesus Himself again appeared to the disciples on the Sea of Tiberias, and He revealed Himself thus: 
Simon Peter, and Thomas who is called Didymus, and Nathanael from Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two of His other disciples were together. 
Simon Peter says to them, “I go away to fish”; they say to him, “We go—we also—with you”; they went forth and immediately entered into the boat, and on that night they caught nothing. 
And morning having now come, Jesus stood at the shore, yet indeed the disciples did not know that it is Jesus; 
Jesus, therefore, says to them, “Boys, do you have any meat?” 
They answered Him, “No”; and He said to them, “Cast the net at the right side of the boat, and you will find some”; they cast, therefore, and no longer were they able to draw it, from the multitude of the fishes. 
That disciple, therefore, whom Jesus was loving says to Peter, “It is the Lord!” Simon Peter, therefore, having heard that it is the LORD, girded on the outer coat (for he was naked), and cast himself into the sea; 
and the other disciples came by the little boat, for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits away, dragging the net of the fishes; 
when, therefore, they came to the land, they behold a fire of coals lying there, and a fish lying on it, and bread. 
Jesus says to them, “Bring from the fishes that you caught now”; 
Simon Peter went up, and drew the net up on the land, full of great fishes—one hundred fifty-three; and though they were so many, the net was not split. 
Jesus says to them, “Come, dine”; and none of the disciples were venturing to inquire of Him, “Who are You?” Knowing that it is the LORD; 
Jesus, therefore, comes and takes the bread and gives it to them, and the fish in like manner; 
this is now a third time Jesus was revealed to His disciples, having been raised from the dead. 
When, therefore, they dined, Jesus says to Simon Peter, “Simon, son of Jonas, do you love Me more than these?” He says to Him, “Yes, Lord; You have known that I cherish You”; He says to him, “Feed My lambs.” 
He says to him again, a second time, “Simon, son of Jonas, do you love Me?” He says to Him, “Yes, Lord; You have known that I cherish You”; He says to him, “Tend My sheep.” 
He says to him the third time, “Simon, son of Jonas, do you cherish Me?” Peter was grieved that He said to him the third time, “Do you cherish Me?” And he said to Him, “Lord, You have known all things; You know that I cherish You.” Jesus says to him, “Feed My sheep; 
truly, truly, I say to you, when you were younger, you were girding yourself and were walking to where you willed, but when you may be old, you will stretch forth your hands, and another will gird you, and will carry you to where you do not will”; 
and this He said, signifying by what death he will glorify God; and having said this, He says to him, “Follow Me.” 
And having turned, Peter sees the disciple whom Jesus was loving following (who also reclined in the dinner on His breast and said, “Lord, who is he who is delivering You up?”) 
Having seen this one, Peter says to Jesus, “Lord, and what of this one?” 
Jesus says to him, “If I will him to remain until I come, what is that to you? Follow Me.” 
This word, therefore, went forth to the brothers that this disciple does not die, yet Jesus did not say to him that he does not die, but, “If I will him to remain until I come, what is that to you?” 
This is the disciple who is testifying concerning these things, and he wrote these things, and we have known that his testimony is true. 
And there are also many other things—as many as Jesus did—which, if they may be written one by one, I think the world itself does not even have place for the scrolls written. Amen.
