Numbers.
Chapter 8.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to Aaron, and you have said to him: In your causing the lights to go up, the seven lights give light toward the front of the face of the lampstand.” 
And Aaron does so; he has caused its lights to go up toward the front of the face of the lampstand, as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
And this is the work of the lampstand: beaten work of gold; from its thigh to its flower it is beaten work; as the appearance which YHWH showed Moses, so he has made the lampstand. 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Take the Levites from the midst of the sons of Israel, and you have cleansed them. 
And thus you do to them to cleanse them: sprinkle waters of atonement on them, and they have caused a razor to pass over all their flesh, and have washed their garments, and cleansed themselves, 
and have taken a bullock, a son of the herd, and its present, flour mixed with oil, and you take a second bullock, a son of the herd, for a sin-offering; 
and you have brought the Levites near before the Tent of Meeting, and you have assembled all the congregation of the sons of Israel, 
and you have brought the Levites near before YHWH, and the sons of Israel have laid their hands on the Levites, 
and Aaron has waved the Levites as a wave-offering before YHWH, from the sons of Israel, and they have been consecrated for doing the service of YHWH. 
And the Levites lay their hands on the head of the bullocks, and make one a sin-offering and one a burnt-offering to YHWH, to atone for the Levites. 
And you have caused the Levites to stand before Aaron, and before his sons, and have waved them as a wave-offering to YHWH; 
and you have separated the Levites from the midst of the sons of Israel, and the Levites have become Mine; 
and afterward the Levites come in to serve the Tent of Meeting, and you have cleansed them, and have waved them as a wave-offering. 
For they are certainly given to Me out of the midst of the sons of Israel, instead of him who opens any womb—the firstborn of all; I have taken them for Myself from the sons of Israel; 
for every firstborn among the sons of Israel is Mine, among man and among beast; in the day of My striking every firstborn in the land of Egypt I sanctified them for Myself; 
and I take the Levites instead of every firstborn among the sons of Israel. 
And I give the Levites as gifts to Aaron and to his sons, from the midst of the sons of Israel, to do the service of the sons of Israel in the Tent of Meeting, and to make atonement for the sons of Israel, and there is no plague among the sons of Israel in the sons of Israel drawing near to the holy place.” 
And Moses does—Aaron also, and all the congregation of the sons of Israel—to the Levites according to all that YHWH has commanded Moses concerning the Levites; so the sons of Israel have done to them. 
And the Levites cleanse themselves, and wash their garments, and Aaron waves them as a wave-offering before YHWH, and Aaron makes atonement for them to cleanse them, 
and afterward the Levites have gone in to do their service in the Tent of Meeting, before Aaron and before his sons; as YHWH has commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so they have done to them. 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“This is who is for the Levites: from a son of twenty-five years and upward he goes in to serve the host in the service of the Tent of Meeting, 
and from a son of fifty years he returns from the host of the service, and does not serve anymore, 
and he has ministered with his brothers in the Tent of Meeting, to keep the charge, and does not do service; thus you do to the Levites concerning their charge.” 
