Ezekiel.
Chapter 48.
“And these are the names of the tribes: from the north end to the side of the way of Hethlon, at the coming in to Hamath, Hazar-Enan, the border of Damascus northward, in the direction of Hamath, and they have been his—east side to west, Dan, one portion; 
and by the border of Dan, from the east side to the west side, Asher, one portion; 
and by the border of Asher, from the east side even to the west side, Naphtali, one portion; 
and by the border of Naphtali, from the east side to the west side, Manasseh, one portion; 
and by the border of Manasseh, from the east side to the west side, Ephraim, one portion; 
and by the border of Ephraim, from the east side even to the west side, Reuben, one portion; 
and by the border of Reuben, from the east side to the west side, Judah, one portion; 
and by the border of Judah, from the east side to the west side is the raised-offering that you lift up, twenty-five thousand cubits broad and long, as one of the parts, from the east side to the west side: and the sanctuary has been in its midst. 
The raised-offering that you lift up to YHWH is twenty-five thousand long and ten thousand broad. 
And of these is the holy raised-offering for the priests, northward twenty-five thousand, and westward ten thousand in breadth, and eastward ten thousand in breadth, and southward twenty-five thousand in length: and the sanctuary of YHWH has been in its midst. 
For the priests who are sanctified of the sons of Zadok, who have kept My charge, who did not err in the erring of the sons of Israel, as the Levites erred, 
even the raised-offering has been for them, out of the raised-offering of the land, most holy, by the border of the Levites. 
And to the Levites alongside the border of the priests are twenty-five thousand in length, and ten thousand in breadth, all the length is twenty-five thousand, and the breadth ten thousand. 
And they do not sell of it, nor exchange, nor cause the first-fruit of the land to pass away: for it is holy to YHWH. 
And the five thousand that is left in the breadth, on the front of the twenty-five thousand, is common—for the city, for dwelling, and for outskirt, and the city has been in its midst. 
And these are its measurements: the north side—four thousand and five hundred, and the south side—four thousand and five hundred, and on the east side—four thousand and five hundred, and the west side—four thousand and five hundred. 
And the outskirt of the city has been northward—two hundred and fifty, and southward—two hundred and fifty, and eastward—two hundred and fifty, and westward—two hundred and fifty. 
And the remainder in length alongside the raised-offering of the holy portion is ten thousand eastward, and ten thousand westward, and it has been alongside the raised-offering of the holy portion, and its increase has been for food for those serving the city, 
even to him who is serving the city, they serve it out of all the tribes of Israel. 
All the raised-offering is twenty-five thousand by twenty-five thousand square—you lift up the raised-offering of the holy portion with the possession of the city. 
And the remainder is for the prince, on this side and on that side of the raised-offering of the holy portion, and of the possession of the city, on the front of the twenty-five thousand of the raised-offering to the east border, and westward, on the front of the twenty-five thousand on the west border, alongside the portions of the prince; and the raised-offering of the holy portion, and the sanctuary of the house, has been in its midst. 
And from the possession of the Levites, from the possession of the city, in the midst of that which is for the prince, between the border of Judah and the border of Benjamin, there is for the prince. 
As for the rest of the tribes, from the east side to the west side, Benjamin, one portion; 
and by the border of Benjamin, from the east side to the west side, Simeon, one portion; 
and by the border of Simeon, from the east side to the west side, Issachar, one portion; 
and by the border of Issachar, from the east side to the west side, Zebulun, one portion; 
and by the border of Zebulun, from the east side to the west side, Gad, one portion; 
and by the border of Gad, at the south side southward, the border has been from Tamar to the waters of Meriboth-Kadesh, the stream by the Great Sea. 
This is the land that you separate by inheritance to the tribes of Israel, and these are their divisions,” a declaration of Lord YHWH. 
“And these are the outgoings of the city: on the north side, four thousand and five hundred measures; 
and the gates of the city are according to the names of the tribes of Israel; three gates northward—one gate of Reuben, one gate of Judah, one gate of Levi. 
And on the east side, four thousand and five hundred, and three gates—one gate of Joseph, one gate of Benjamin, one gate of Dan. 
And the south side, four thousand and five hundred, and three gates—one gate of Simeon, one gate of Issachar, one gate of Zebulun. 
The west side, four thousand and five hundred, with their three gates—one gate of Gad, one gate of Asher, one gate of Naphtali. 
It is eighteen thousand around, and the renown of the city is from the day YHWH is there.”
