Numbers.
Chapter 9.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, in the wilderness of Sinai, in the second year of their going out of the land of Egypt, in the first month, saying, 
“Also, the sons of Israel prepare the Passover in its appointed time; 
in the fourteenth day of this month between the evenings you prepare it in its appointed time; you prepare it according to all its statutes and according to all its ordinances.” 
And Moses speaks to the sons of Israel to prepare the Passover, 
and they prepare the Passover in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, between the evenings, in the wilderness of Sinai; according to all that YHWH has commanded Moses, so the sons of Israel have done. 
And there are men who have been defiled by the body of a man, and they have not been able to prepare the Passover on that day, and they come near before Moses and before Aaron on that day, 
and those men say to him, “We are defiled by the body of a man; why are we withheld so as not to bring the offering of YHWH near in its appointed time, in the midst of the sons of Israel?” 
And Moses says to them, “Stand, and I hear what YHWH has commanded concerning you.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, Though any man is unclean by a body or in a distant journey (of you or of your generations), he has still prepared a Passover to YHWH; 
they prepare it in the second month, on the fourteenth day, between the evenings; they eat it with unleavened and bitter things; 
they do not leave of it until morning; and they do not break a bone in it; they prepare it according to all the statute of the Passover. 
And the man who is clean, and has not been on a journey, and has ceased to prepare the Passover, indeed, that person has been cut off from his people; because he has not brought the offering of YHWH near in its appointed time, that man bears his sin. 
And when a sojourner sojourns with you, then he has prepared a Passover to YHWH—according to the statute of the Passover and according to its ordinance, so he does; one statute is for you, indeed, for a sojourner and for a native of the land.” 
And in the day of the raising up of the Dwelling Place, the cloud has covered the Dwelling Place, even the Tent of the Testimony; and in the evening there is as an appearance of fire on the Dwelling Place until morning; 
so it is continually; the cloud covers it, also the appearance of fire by night. 
And according to the going up of the cloud from off the tent, then afterward the sons of Israel journey; and in the place where the cloud dwells, there the sons of Israel encamp; 
by the command of YHWH the sons of Israel journey, and by the command of YHWH they encamp; all the days that the cloud dwells over the Dwelling Place they encamp. 
And in the cloud prolonging itself over the Dwelling Place many days, then the sons of Israel have kept the charge of YHWH, and do not journey. 
And so when the cloud is over the Dwelling Place for a number of days: by the command of YHWH they encamp, and by the command of YHWH they journey. 
And so when the cloud is from evening until morning, when the cloud has gone up in the morning, then they have journeyed; whether by day or by night, when the cloud has gone up, then they have journeyed. 
Whether two days, or a month, or days, in the cloud prolonging itself over the Dwelling Place, to dwell over it, the sons of Israel encamp and do not journey; and in its being lifted up they journey. 
By the command of YHWH they encamp, and by the command of YHWH they journey; they have kept the charge of YHWH, by the command of YHWH in the hand of Moses. 
