Genesis.
Chapter 12.
And YHWH says to Abram, “Go for yourself, from your land, and from your family, and from the house of your father, to the land which I show you. 
And I make you become a great nation, and bless you, and make your name great; and be a blessing. 
And I bless those blessing you, and I curse him who is cursing you, and all families of the ground have been blessed in you.” 
And Abram goes on, as YHWH has spoken to him, and Lot goes with him, and Abram is a son of seventy-five years in his going out from Haran. 
And Abram takes his wife Sarai, and his brother’s son Lot, and all their substance that they have gained, and the persons that they have obtained in Haran; and they go out to go toward the land of Canaan; and they come to the land of Canaan. 
And Abram passes over into the land, to the place of Shechem, to the oak of Moreh; and the Canaanite is then in the land. 
And YHWH appears to Abram and says, “To your seed I give this land”; and there he builds an altar to YHWH, who has appeared to him. 
And he removes from there toward a mountain at the east of Beth-El, and stretches out the tent (Beth-El at the west, and Hai at the east), and he builds an altar to YHWH there, and preaches in the Name of YHWH. 
And Abram journeys, going on and journeying toward the south. 
And there is a famine in the land, and Abram goes down toward Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine is grievous in the land; 
and it comes to pass as he has drawn near to enter Egypt, that he says to his wife Sarai, “Now behold, I have known that you are a woman of beautiful appearance; 
and it has come to pass that the Egyptians see you, and they have said, This is his wife; and they have slain me, and you they keep alive: 
please say you are my sister, so that it is well with me because of you, and my soul has lived for your sake.” 
And it comes to pass, at the entering of Abram into Egypt, that the Egyptians see the woman that she is exceedingly beautiful; 
and princes of Pharaoh see her, and praise her to Pharaoh, and the woman is taken to Pharaoh’s house; 
and to Abram he has done good because of her, and he has sheep and oxen, and male donkeys, and menservants, and handmaids, and female donkeys, and camels. 
And YHWH plagues Pharaoh and his house—great plagues—for the matter of Sarai, Abram’s wife. 
And Pharaoh calls for Abram and says, “What is this you have done to me? Why have you not declared to me that she is your wife? 
Why have you said, She is my sister, and I take her to myself for a wife? And now, behold, your wife, take and go.” 
And Pharaoh charges men concerning him, and they send him away, and his wife, and all that he has. 
