Matthew.
Chapter 20.
“For the kingdom of the heavens is like to a man, a householder, who went forth with the morning to hire workmen for his vineyard, 
and having agreed with the workmen for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard. 
And having gone forth about the third hour, he saw others standing in the marketplace idle, 
and to these he said, Go—also you—to the vineyard, and whatever may be righteous I will give you; 
and they went away. Again, having gone forth about the sixth and the ninth hour, he did in like manner. 
And about the eleventh hour, having gone forth, he found others standing idle and says to them, Why have you stood here idle all day? 
They say to him, Because no one hired us; he says to them, Go—you also—to the vineyard, and whatever may be righteous you will receive. 
And evening having come, the lord of the vineyard says to his steward, Call the workmen, and pay them the reward, having begun from the last—to the first. 
And they of about the eleventh hour having come, each received a denarius. 
And the first having come, supposed that they will receive more, and they received, they also, each a denarius, 
and having received it, they were murmuring against the householder, saying, 
that, These, the last, worked one hour, and you made them equal to us, who were bearing the burden of the day—and the heat. 
And he answering said to one of them, Friend, I do no unrighteousness to you; did you not agree with me for a denarius? 
Take that which is yours, and go; and I will to give to this, the last, also as to you; 
is it not lawful to me to do what I will in my own? Is your eye evil because I am good? 
So the last will be first, and the first last, for many are called, and few chosen.” 
And Jesus going up to Jerusalem, took the twelve disciples by themselves in the way and said to them, 
“Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, 
and they will condemn Him to death, and will deliver Him to the nations to mock, and to scourge, and to crucify, and the third day He will rise again.” 
Then came near to Him the mother of the sons of Zebedee, with her sons, prostrating and asking something from Him, 
and He said to her, “What do you will?” She says to Him, “Say that they may sit—these two sons of mine—one on Your right hand and one on the left, in Your kingdom.” 
And Jesus answering said, “You have not known what you ask for yourselves; are you able to drink of the cup that I am about to drink? And with the immersion that I am immersed with, to be immersed?” They say to Him, “We are able.” 
And He says to them, “Of My cup indeed you will drink, and with the immersion that I am immersed with you will be immersed; but to sit on My right hand and on My left is not Mine to give, but—to those for whom it has been prepared by My Father.” 
And the ten having heard, were much displeased with the two brothers, 
and Jesus having called them near, said, “You have known that the rulers of the nations exercise lordship over them, and those who are great exercise authority over them, 
but not so will it be among you, but whoever may will among you to become great, let him be your servant; 
and whoever may will among you to be first, let him be your servant; 
even as the Son of Man did not come to be ministered to, but to minister, and to give His life as a ransom for many.” 
And they going forth from Jericho, there followed Him a great multitude, 
and behold, two blind men sitting by the way, having heard that Jesus passes by, cried, saying, “Deal kindly with us, Lord—Son of David.” 
And the multitude charged them that they might be silent, and they cried out the more, saying, “Deal kindly with us Lord—Son of David.” 
And having stood, Jesus called them and said, “What do you will that I may do to you?” 
They say to Him, “Lord, that our eyes may be opened”; 
and having been moved with compassion, Jesus touched their eyes, and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed Him. 
