1 Chronicles.
Chapter 8.
And Benjamin begot Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third, 
Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth. 
And there are sons to Bela: Addar, and Gera, 
and Abihud, and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah, 
and Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram. 
And these are sons of Ehud—they are heads of fathers to the inhabitants of Geba, and they remove them to Manahath: 
even Naaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, who removed them and begot Uzza and Ahihud. 
And Shaharaim begot in the field of Moab after his sending them away; Hushim and Baara are his wives. 
And he begets of his wife Hodesh: Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcham, 
and Jeuz, and Shachiah, and Mirmah. These are his sons, heads of fathers. 
And of Hushim he begot Ahitub and Elpaal. 
And sons of Elpaal: Eber, and Misheam, and Shamer (he built Ono and Lod and its small towns), 
and Beriah and Shema (they are the heads of fathers to the inhabitants of Aijalon—they caused the inhabitants of Gath to flee), 
and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth, 
and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Ader, 
and Michael, and Ispah, and Joha, sons of Beriah, 
and Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hezeki, and Heber, 
and Ishmerai, and Jezliah, and Jobab, sons of Elpaal; 
and Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi, 
and Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel, 
and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, sons of Shimei; 
and Ishpan, and Heber, and Eliel, 
and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan, 
and Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah, 
and Iphedeiah, and Penuel, sons of Shashak; 
and Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah, 
and Jaareshiah, and Eliah, and Zichri, sons of Jeroham. 
These are heads of fathers, by their generations, the heads. These dwelt in Jerusalem. 
And the father of Gibeon has dwelt in Gibeon, and the name of his wife is Maachah; 
and his son, the firstborn, is Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Ba‘al, and Nadab, 
and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zacher; 
and Mikloth begot Shimeah. And they also dwelt opposite their brothers—with their brothers in Jerusalem. 
And Ner begot Kish, and Kish begot Saul, and Saul begot Jonathan, and Malchi-Shua, and Abinadab, and Esh-Ba‘al. 
And a son of Jonathan is Merib-Ba‘al, and Merib-Ba‘al begot Micah; 
and sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz: 
and Ahaz begot Jehoadah, and Jehoadah begot Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begot Moza, 
and Moza begot Binea, Raphah his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son. 
And to Azel are six sons, and these are their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these are sons of Azel. 
And sons of his brother Eshek: Ulam his firstborn, Jehush the second, and Eliphelet the third. 
And the sons of Ulam are men mighty in valor, treading bow, and multiplying sons and son’s sons—one hundred and fifty. All these are of the sons of Benjamin. 
