Leviticus.
Chapter 27.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you have said to them: When a man makes a special vow in your valuation of persons to YHWH, 
then your valuation has been of the male from a son of twenty years even to a son of sixty years, and your valuation has been fifty shekels of silver by the shekel of the holy place. 
And if it is a female, then your valuation has been thirty shekels; 
and if from a son of five years even to a son of twenty years, then your valuation of the male has been twenty shekels, and for the female, ten shekels; 
and if from a son of a month even to a son of five years, then your valuation of the male has been five shekels of silver, and for the female your valuation is three shekels of silver; 
and if from a son of sixty years and above, if a male, then your valuation has been fifteen shekels, and for a female, ten shekels. 
And if he is poorer than your valuation, then he has presented himself before the priest, and the priest has valued him; according to that which the hand of him who is vowing reaches, the priest values him. 
And if it is a beast of which they bring near as an offering to YHWH, all that one gives of it to YHWH is holy; 
he does not change it nor exchange it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good; and if he really exchanges beast for beast, then it has been holy and its exchange is holy. 
And if it is any unclean beast of which they do not bring near as an offering to YHWH, then he has presented the beast before the priest, 
and the priest has valued it, whether good or bad; according to your valuation, O priest, so it is; 
and if he really redeems it, then he has added its fifth to your valuation. 
And when a man sanctifies his house as a holy thing to YHWH, then the priest has valued it, whether good or bad; as the priest values it so it stands; 
and if he who is sanctifying redeems his house, then he has added a fifth of the money of your valuation to it, and it has become his. 
And if a man sanctifies to YHWH from a field of his possession, then your valuation has been according to its seed—a homer of barley-seed at fifty shekels of silver; 
if he sanctifies his field from the Year of the Jubilee, according to your valuation it stands; 
and if he sanctifies his field after the Jubilee, then the priest has reckoned the money to him according to the years which are left, to the Year of the Jubilee, and it has been diminished from your valuation. 
And if he really redeems the field—he who is sanctifying it—then he has added a fifth of the money of your valuation to it, and it has been established to him; 
and if he does not redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it is not redeemed anymore; 
and the field has been, in its going out in the Jubilee, holy to YHWH as a field which is devoted; his possession is for the priest. 
And if he sanctifies a field of his purchase to YHWH, which is not of the fields of his possession, 
then the priest has reckoned to him the amount of your valuation up to the Year of Jubilee, and he has given your valuation in that day as a holy thing to YHWH; 
in the Year of the Jubilee the field returns to him from whom he bought it, to him who has the possession of the land. 
And all your valuation is by the shekel of the holy place: the shekel is twenty gerahs. 
Only, a firstling which is YHWH’s firstling among beasts—no man sanctifies it, whether ox or sheep; it is YHWH’s. 
And if from among the unclean beast, then he has ransomed it at your valuation, and he has added its fifth to it; and if it is not redeemed, then it has been sold at your valuation. 
Only, no devoted thing which a man devotes to YHWH of all that he has, of man, and beast, and of the field of his possession, is sold or redeemed; every devoted thing is most holy to YHWH. 
No devoted thing, which is devoted of man, is ransomed, it is surely put to death. 
And all tithe of the land, of the seed of the land, of the fruit of the tree, is YHWH’s; it is holy to YHWH. 
And if a man really redeems any of his tithe, he adds its fifth to it. 
And all the tithe of the herd and of the flock—all that passes by under the rod—the tenth is holy to YHWH; 
he does not inquire between good and bad, nor does he exchange it; and if he really exchanges it, then it has been holy and its exchange is holy; it is not redeemed.” 
These are the commands which YHWH has commanded Moses for the sons of Israel in Mount Sinai.
