Mark.
Chapter 7.
And gathered together to Him are the Pharisees, and certain of the scribes, having come from Jerusalem, 
and having seen certain of His disciples with defiled hands—that is, unwashed—eating bread, they found fault; 
for the Pharisees, and all the Jews, if they do not wash the hands to the wrist, do not eat, holding the tradition of the elders, 
and coming from the marketplace, if they do not immerse themselves, they do not eat; and many other things there are that they received to hold, immersions of cups, and pots, and bronze vessels, and couches. 
Then the Pharisees and the scribes question Him, “Why do Your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat the bread with unwashed hands?” 
And He answering said to them, “Well did Isaiah prophesy concerning you, hypocrites, as it has been written: This people honors Me with the lips, and their heart is far from Me; 
and in vain they worship Me, teaching teachings, commands of men; 
for having put away the command of God, you hold the tradition of men, immersions of pots and cups; and many other such like things you do.” 
And He said to them, “Well do you put away the command of God that you may keep your tradition; 
for Moses said, Honor your father and your mother; and, He who is speaking evil of father or mother—let him die the death; 
and you say, If a man may say to father or to mother, Korban (that is, a gift), is whatever you may be profited out of mine, 
and you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or for his mother, 
setting aside the word of God for your tradition that you delivered; and many such like things you do.” 
And having called near all the multitude, He said to them, “Listen to Me, you all, and understand; 
there is nothing from outside the man entering into him that is able to defile him, but the things coming out from him, those are the things defiling the man. 
If any has ears to hear—let him hear.” 
And when He entered into a house from the multitude, His disciples were questioning Him about the allegory, 
and He says to them, “So also you are without understanding! Do you not perceive that nothing from outside entering into the man is able to defile him? 
Because it does not enter into his heart, but into the belly, and into the drain it goes out, purifying all the meats.” 
And He said, “That which is coming out from the man, that defiles the man; 
for from within, out of the heart of men, the evil reasonings come forth, adulteries, whoredoms, murders, 
thefts, covetous desires, wickedness, deceit, arrogance, an evil eye, slander, pride, foolishness; 
all these evils come forth from within, and they defile the man.” 
And from there having risen, He went away to the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and having entered into the house, He wished none to know, and He was not able to be hid, 
for a woman having heard about Him, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having come, fell at His feet— 
and the woman was a Greek, a Syro-Phoenician by nation—and was asking Him that He may cast forth the demon out of her daughter. 
And Jesus said to her, “First permit the children to be filled, for it is not good to take the children’s bread, and to cast it to the little dogs.” 
And she answered and says to Him, “Yes, Lord; for the little dogs under the table also eat of the children’s crumbs.” 
And He said to her, “Because of this word, go; the demon has gone forth out of your daughter”; 
and having come away to her house, she found the demon gone forth, and the daughter laid on the bed. 
And again, having gone forth from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon, He came to the Sea of Galilee, through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis, 
and they bring to Him a deaf, stuttering man, and they call on Him that He may put the hand on him. 
And having taken him away from the multitude by Himself, He put His fingers to his ears, and having spit, He touched his tongue, 
and having looked to the sky, He sighed, and says to him, “Ephphatha,” that is, “Be opened”; 
and immediately his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he was speaking plain. 
He charged them that they may tell no one, but the more He was charging them, the more abundantly they were proclaiming it, 
and they were being astonished beyond measure, saying, “He has done all things well; He makes both the deaf to hear, and the mute to speak.” 
