The Letter of Paul to the Galatians.
Chapter 1.
Paul, an apostle—not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised Him out of the dead— 
and all the brothers with me, to the assemblies of Galatia: 
Grace to you and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ, 
who gave Himself for our sins, that He might deliver us out of the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, 
to whom is the glory through the ages of the ages. Amen. 
I wonder that you are so quickly removed from Him who called you in the grace of Christ to another good news— 
not that there is another, except there are certain who are troubling you, and wishing to pervert the good news of the Christ; 
but even if we or a messenger out of Heaven may proclaim good news to you different from what we proclaimed to you—let him be accursed! 
As we have said before, and now say again: if anyone may proclaim to you good news different from what you received—let him be accursed! 
For do I now persuade men, or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I yet pleased men—I should not be Christ’s servant. 
And I make known to you, brothers, the good news that was proclaimed by me, that it is not according to man, 
for neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but through a revelation of Jesus Christ, 
for you heard of my behavior once in Judaism, that I was exceedingly persecuting the Assembly of God, and destroying it, 
and I was advancing in Judaism above many equals in age in my own race, being more abundantly zealous of my fathers’ deliverances, 
and when God was well pleased—having separated me from the womb of my mother, and having called me through His grace— 
to reveal His Son in me, that I might proclaim Him as good news among the nations, I did not immediately confer with flesh and blood, 
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away to Arabia, and again returned to Damascus; 
then, after three years I went up to Jerusalem to inquire about Peter, and remained with him fifteen days, 
and I did not see any other of the apostles, except James, the brother of the LORD. 
And the things that I write to you, behold, before God—I do not lie; 
then I came into the regions of Syria and of Cilicia, 
and was unknown by face to the assemblies of Judea, that are in Christ, 
and they were only hearing that “he who is persecuting us then, now proclaims good news—the faith that he was then destroying”; 
and they were glorifying God in me. 
