James.
Chapter 2.
My brothers, do not hold the faith of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ in favor by appearance, 
for if there may come into your synagogue a man with gold ring, in radiant clothing, and there may also come in a poor man in vile clothing, 
and you may look on him bearing the radiant clothing, and may say to him, “You—sit here well,” and may say to the poor man, “You—stand there,” or, “Sit here under my footstool,” 
you did not judge fully in yourselves, and became ill-reasoning judges. 
Listen, my beloved brothers, did God not choose the poor of this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom that He promised to those loving Him? 
But you dishonored the poor one. Do the rich not oppress you and themselves draw you to judgment-seats? 
Do they not themselves speak evil of the good Name having been called on you? 
If, indeed, you fulfill royal law, according to the Writing: “You will love your neighbor as yourself,” you do well; 
but if you favor by appearance, you work sin, being convicted by the Law as transgressors; 
for whoever will keep the whole Law, but will stumble in one point, he has become guilty of all; 
for He who is saying, “You may not commit adultery,” also said, “You may not murder”; but if you will not commit adultery, but will commit murder, you have become a transgressor of law; 
thus, speak and so act as one about to be judged by a law of liberty, 
for the judgment without mercy is to him having not done mercy, and mercy exults over judgment. 
What is the profit, my brothers, if anyone may speak of having faith, but he may not have works? Is that faith able to save him? 
And if a brother or sister may be naked, and may be destitute of daily food, 
and anyone of you may say to them, “Depart in peace, be warmed, and be filled,” but may not give to them the things necessary for the body, what is the profit? 
So also faith, if it may not have works, is dead by itself. 
But someone may say, “You have faith, and I have works.” Show me your faith without works, and I will show you my faith out of works. 
You believe that God is one; you do well! The demons also believe—and shudder! 
And do you wish to know, O vain man, that faith apart from works is dead? 
Was not our father Abraham considered righteous out of works, having brought up his son Isaac on the altar? 
Do you see that faith was working with his works, and faith was perfected out of the works? 
And the Writing was fulfilled that is saying, “And Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him for righteousness”; and, “Friend of God” he was called. 
You see, then, that man is considered righteous out of works, and not out of faith only; 
and in like manner also Rahab the prostitute—was she not considered righteous out of works, having received the messengers, and having sent them forth by another way? 
For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also the faith apart from works is dead. 
