Genesis.
Chapter 34.
And Dinah, daughter of Leah, whom she has borne to Jacob, goes out to look on the daughters of the land, 
and Shechem, son of Hamor the Hivite, a prince of the land, sees her, and takes her, and lies with her, and humbles her; 
and his soul cleaves to Dinah, daughter of Jacob, and he loves the young person, and speaks to the heart of the young person. 
And Shechem speaks to his father Hamor, saying, “Take for me this girl for a wife.” 
And Jacob has heard that he has defiled his daughter Dinah, and his sons were with his livestock in the field, and Jacob kept silent until their coming. 
And Hamor, father of Shechem, goes out to Jacob to speak with him; 
and the sons of Jacob came in from the field when they heard, and the men grieve themselves, and it is very displeasing to them, for folly he has done against Israel, to lie with the daughter of Jacob—and so it is not done. 
And Hamor speaks with them, saying, “Shechem, my son, his soul has cleaved to your daughter; please give her to him for a wife, 
and join in marriage with us; you give your daughters to us, and you take our daughters for yourselves, 
and you dwell with us, and the land is before you; dwell and trade in it, and have possessions in it.” 
And Shechem says to her father and to her brothers, “Let me find grace in your eyes, and that which you say to me, I give; 
multiply on me dowry and gift exceedingly, and I give as you say to me, and give to me the young person for a wife.” 
And the sons of Jacob answer Shechem and his father Hamor deceitfully, and they speak (because he defiled their sister Dinah), 
and say to them, “We are not able to do this thing, to give our sister to one who has a foreskin, for it is a reproach to us. 
Only for this we consent to you: if you are as we, to have every male of you circumcised, 
then we have given our daughters to you, and we take your daughters for ourselves, and we have dwelt with you, and have become one people; 
and if you do not listen to us to be circumcised, then we have taken our daughter, and have gone.” 
And their words are good in the eyes of Hamor, and in the eyes of Shechem, Hamor’s son; 
and the young man did not delay to do the thing, for he had delight in Jacob’s daughter, and he is honorable above all the house of his father. 
And Hamor comes—his son Shechem also—to the gate of their city, and they speak to the men of their city, saying, 
“These men are peaceable with us; then let them dwell in the land, and trade in it; and the land, behold, is wide before them; their daughters let us take to ourselves for wives, and our daughters give to them. 
Only for this do the men consent to us, to dwell with us, to become one people, in every male of us being circumcised, as they are circumcised; 
their livestock, and their substance, and all their beasts—are they not ours? Only let us consent to them, and they dwell with us.” 
And to Hamor, and to his son Shechem, do all those going out of the gate of his city listen, and every male is circumcised, all those going out of the gate of his city. 
And it comes to pass, on the third day, in their being pained, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah’s brothers, take each his sword, and come in against the city confidently, and slay every male; 
and Hamor, and his son Shechem, they have slain by the mouth of the sword, and they take Dinah out of Shechem’s house, and go out. 
Jacob’s sons have come in on the wounded, and they spoil the city, because they had defiled their sister; 
their flock and their herd, and their donkeys, and that which is in the city, and that which is in the field, have they taken; 
and all their wealth, and all their infants, and their wives they have taken captive, and they spoil also all that is in the house. 
And Jacob says to Simeon and to Levi, “You have troubled me, by causing me to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanite, and among the Perizzite: and I am few in number, and they have been gathered against me, and have struck me, and I have been destroyed, I and my house.” 
And they say, “Does he make our sister as a harlot?” 
