John.
Chapter 14.
“Do not let your heart be troubled, believe in God, believe also in Me; 
in the house of My Father are many rooms; and if not, I would have told you; I go on to prepare a place for you; 
and if I go on and prepare a place for you, I come again, and will receive you to Myself, that where I am you also may be; 
and to where I go away you have known, and the way you have known.” 
Thomas says to Him, “Lord, we have not known to where You go away, and how are we able to know the way?” 
Jesus says to him, “I AM the way, and the truth, and the life, no one comes to the Father, if not through Me; 
if you had known Me, you would also have known My Father, and from this time you have known Him, and have seen Him.” 
Philip says to Him, “Lord, show to us the Father, and it is enough for us”; 
Jesus says to him, “Such a long time am I with you, and you have not known Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father; and how do you say, Show to us the Father? 
Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father is in Me? The sayings that I speak to you, I do not speak from Myself, and the Father who is abiding in Me does the works Himself; 
believe Me, that I am in the Father, and the Father in Me; and if not, because of the works themselves, believe Me. 
Truly, truly, I say to you, he who is believing in Me, the works that I do—that one will also do, and greater than these he will do, because I go on to My Father; 
and whatever you may ask in My Name, I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son; 
if you ask anything in My Name I will do it. 
If you love Me, keep My commands, 
and I will ask the Father, and He will give to you another Comforter, that He may remain with you throughout the age: 
the Spirit of truth, whom the world is not able to receive, because it does not see nor know this One, and you know this One, because this One remains with you, and will be in you. 
I will not leave you bereaved, I come to you; 
yet a little while and the world beholds Me no more, and you behold Me, because I live, and you will live; 
in that day you will know that I am in My Father, and you in Me, and I in you; 
he who is having My commands, and is keeping them, that one it is who is loving Me, and he who is loving Me will be loved by My Father, and I will love him, and will manifest Myself to him.” 
Judas says to Him (not the Iscariot), “Lord, what has come to pass, that You are about to manifest Yourself to us, and not to the world?” 
Jesus answered and said to him, “If anyone may love Me, he will keep My word, and My Father will love him, and We will come to him, and We will make an abode with him; 
he who is not loving Me does not keep My words; and the word that you hear is not Mine, but the Father’s who sent Me. 
These things I have spoken to you, remaining with you, 
and the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in My Name, He will teach you all things, and remind you of all things that I said to you. 
Peace I leave to you; My peace I give to you. Not according as the world gives do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, nor let it be afraid. 
You heard that I said to you, I go away, and I come to you. If you loved Me, you would have rejoiced that I said, I go on to the Father, because My Father is greater than I. 
And now I have said it to you before it comes to pass, that when it may come to pass, you may believe. 
I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world comes, and he has nothing in Me; 
but that the world may know that I love the Father, and according as the Father gave Me command, so I do; arise, we may go from here.” 
