John.
Chapter 11.
And there was a certain one ailing, Lazarus, from Bethany, of the village of Mary and Martha her sister— 
and it was Mary who anointed the LORD with ointment, and wiped His feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ailing— 
therefore the sisters sent to Him, saying, “Lord, behold, he whom You cherish is ailing”; 
and Jesus having heard, said, “This ailment is not to death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified through it.” 
And Jesus was loving Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus, 
when, therefore, He heard that he is ailing, then indeed He remained in the place in which He was two days, 
then after this, He says to the disciples, “We may go to Judea again”; 
the disciples say to Him, “Rabbi, the Jews were just seeking to stone You, and again You go there?” 
Jesus answered, “Are there not twelve hours in the day? If anyone may walk in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world; 
and if anyone may walk in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him.” 
He said these things, and after this He says to them, “Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go on that I may awake him”; 
therefore His disciples said, “Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will be saved”; 
but Jesus had spoken about his death, but they thought that He speaks about the repose of sleep. 
Then, therefore, Jesus said to them freely, “Lazarus has died; 
and I rejoice, for your sake (that you may believe), that I was not there; but we may go to him”; 
therefore Thomas, who is called Didymus, said to the fellow-disciples, “We may go—we also, that we may die with Him,” 
Jesus, therefore, having come, found him having already been four days in the tomb. 
And Bethany was near to Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia off, 
and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary, that they might comfort them concerning their brother; 
Martha, therefore, when she heard that Jesus comes, met Him, and Mary kept sitting in the house. 
Martha, therefore, said to Jesus, “Lord, if You had been here, my brother had not died; 
but even now, I have known that whatever You may ask of God, God will give to You”; 
Jesus says to her, “Your brother will rise again.” 
Martha says to Him, “I have known that he will rise again in the resurrection in the last day”; 
Jesus said to her, “I AM the resurrection, and the life; he who is believing in Me, even if he may die, will live; 
and everyone who is living and believing in Me will not die—throughout the age; 
do you believe this?” She says to Him, “Yes, Lord, I have believed that You are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world.” 
And having said these things, she went away, and called Mary her sister privately, saying, “The Teacher is present, and calls you”; 
she, when she heard, rises up quickly, and comes to Him; 
and Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was in the place where Martha met Him; 
the Jews, therefore, who were with her in the house, and were comforting her, having seen Mary that she rose up quickly and went forth, followed her, saying, “She goes away to the tomb, that she may weep there.” 
Mary, therefore, when she came where Jesus was, having seen Him, fell at His feet, saying to Him, “Lord, if You had been here, my brother had not died”; 
Jesus, therefore, when He saw her weeping, and the Jews who came with her weeping, groaned in the spirit, and troubled Himself, and He said, 
“Where have you laid him?” They say to Him, “Lord, come and see”; 
Jesus wept. 
The Jews, therefore, said, “Behold, how He was cherishing him!” 
And certain of them said, “Was not this One, who opened the eyes of the blind man, also able to cause that this one might not have died?” 
Jesus, therefore, again groaning in Himself, comes to the tomb, and it was a cave, and a stone was lying on it, 
Jesus says, “Take away the stone”; the sister of him who has died—Martha—says to Him, “Lord, he already stinks, for he is four days dead”; 
Jesus says to her, “Did I not say to you that if you may believe, you will see the glory of God?” 
Therefore they took away the stone where the dead was laid, and Jesus lifted His eyes upwards, and said, “Father, I thank You that You heard Me; 
and I knew that You always hear Me, but because of the multitude that is standing by, I said it, that they may believe that You sent Me.” 
And saying these things, He cried out with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come forth!” 
And he who died came forth, feet and hands being bound with grave-clothes, and his face was bound around with a napkin; Jesus says to them, “Loose him, and permit to go.” 
Many, therefore, of the Jews who came to Mary, and beheld what Jesus did, believed in Him; 
but certain of them went away to the Pharisees, and told them what Jesus did; 
the chief priests, therefore, and the Pharisees, gathered together the Sanhedrin and said, “What may we do? Because this Man does many signs? 
If we may leave Him alone thus, all will believe in Him; and the Romans will come, and will take away both our place and nation.” 
And a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being chief priest of that year, said to them, “You have not known anything, 
nor reason that it is good for us that one man may die for the people, and not the whole nation perish.” 
And he did not say this of himself, but being chief priest of that year, he prophesied that Jesus was about to die for the nation, 
and not for the nation only, but that also the children of God, who have been scattered abroad, He may gather together into one. 
From that day, therefore, they took counsel together that they may kill Him; 
Jesus, therefore, was no longer freely walking among the Jews, but went away from there into the region near the wilderness, to a city called Ephraim, and there He tarried with His disciples. 
And the Passover of the Jews was near, and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the Passover, that they might purify themselves; 
therefore they were seeking Jesus and said with one another, standing in the temple, “What appears to you—that He may not come to the celebration?” 
And both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a command, that if anyone may know where He is, he may show it, so that they may seize Him. 
