Exodus.
Chapter 30.
“And you have made an altar for making incense; you make it of shittim wood; 
a cubit its length and a cubit its breadth (it is square), and two cubits its height; its horns are of the same. 
And you have overlaid it with pure gold—its top, and around its sides, and its horns; and you have made a crown of gold for it all around; 
and you make two rings of gold for it, under its crown on its two ribs; you make them on its two sides, and they have become places for poles to carry it with them. 
And you have made the poles of shittim wood, and have overlaid them with gold; 
and you have put it before the veil, which is by the Ark of the Testimony, before the propitiatory covering which is over the Testimony, where I meet with you. 
And Aaron has made incense on it, incense of spices, morning by morning; in his making the lamps right, he makes incense on it, 
and in Aaron’s causing the lamps to go up between the evenings, he makes incense on it; it is a continual incense before YHWH throughout your generations. 
You do not cause strange incense to go up on it—and burnt-offering and present; and you do not pour out a drink-offering on it; 
and Aaron has made atonement on its horns once in a year, by the blood of the sin-offering of atonements; once in a year he makes atonement for it, throughout your generations; it is most holy to YHWH.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“When you take up the census of the sons of Israel for their numbers, then they have each given an atonement for his soul to YHWH in their being numbered, and there is no plague among them in their being numbered. 
This they give, everyone passing over to those numbered, half a shekel, by the shekel of the holy place (the shekel is twenty gerahs); half a shekel is the raised-offering to YHWH; 
everyone passing over to those numbered, from a son of twenty years and upwards, gives the raised-offering of YHWH; 
the rich do not multiply, and the poor do not diminish from the half-shekel, to give the raised-offering of YHWH, to make atonement for your souls. 
And you have taken the atonement-money from the sons of Israel, and have given it for the service of the Tent of Meeting; and it has been to the sons of Israel for a memorial before YHWH, to make atonement for your souls.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“And you have made a laver of bronze (and its base of bronze), for washing; and you have put it between the Tent of Meeting and the altar, and have put water in there, 
and Aaron and his sons have washed their hands and their feet from it; 
they wash with water in their going into the Tent of Meeting, and do not die; or in their drawing near to the altar to minister, to make incense as a fire-offering to YHWH, 
then they have washed their hands and their feet, and they do not die, and it has been a continuous statute to them, to him and to his seed, throughout their generations.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“And you, take these principal spices for yourself: five hundred shekels of liquid myrrh, and the half of that—two hundred and fifty shekels—of spice-cinnamon, and two hundred and fifty shekels of spice-cane, 
and five hundred shekels of cassia, by the shekel of the holy place, and a hin of olive oil; 
and you have made it a holy anointing oil, a compound mixture, work of a compounder; it is a holy anointing oil. 
And with it you have anointed the Tent of Meeting, and the Ark of the Testimony, 
and the table and all its vessels, and the lampstand and its vessels, and the altar of incense, 
and the altar of burnt-offering and all its vessels, and the laver and its base; 
and you have sanctified them, and they have been most holy; all that is coming against them is holy; 
and you anoint Aaron and his sons, and have sanctified them for being priests to Me. 
And you speak to the sons of Israel, saying, This is a holy anointing oil to Me, throughout your generations; 
it is not poured on the flesh of man, and you make nothing else like it in its proportion; it is holy—it is holy to you; 
a man who compounds any like it, or who puts of it on a stranger, has even been cut off from his people.” 
And YHWH says to Moses, “Take to yourself spices—stacte, and onycha, and galbanum—spices and pure frankincense; they are part for part; 
and you have made it an incense, a compound, work of a compounder, salted, pure, holy; 
and you have beaten some of it small, and have put of it before the Testimony in the Tent of Meeting, to where I meet with you; it is most holy to you. 
As for the incense which you make, you do not make any for yourselves in its proportion; it is holy to you for YHWH; 
a man who makes any like it—to be refreshed by it—has even been cut off from his people.” 
