Genesis.
Chapter 21.
And YHWH has looked after Sarah as He has said, and YHWH does to Sarah as He has spoken; 
and Sarah conceives, and bears a son to Abraham, to his old age, at the appointed time that God has spoken of with him; 
and Abraham calls the name of his son who is born to him, whom Sarah has borne to him—Isaac; 
and Abraham circumcises his son Isaac, being a son of eight days, as God has commanded him. 
And Abraham is a son of one hundred years in his son Isaac being born to him, 
and Sarah says, “God has made laughter for me; everyone who is hearing laughs for me.” 
She also says, “Who has said to Abraham, Sarah has suckled sons, that I have born a son for his old age?” 
And the boy grows, and is weaned, and Abraham makes a great banquet in the day of Isaac’s being weaned; 
and Sarah sees the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she has borne to Abraham, mocking, 
and she says to Abraham, “Cast out this handmaid and her son; for the son of this handmaid has no possession with my son—with Isaac.” 
And the thing is very wrong in the eyes of Abraham, for his son’s sake; 
and God says to Abraham, “Let it not be wrong in your eyes because of the youth, and because of your handmaid: all that Sarah says to you—listen to her voice, for in Isaac is a seed called to you. 
As for the son of the handmaid also, for a nation I set him, because he is your seed.” 
And Abraham rises early in the morning, and takes bread, and a bottle of water, and gives to Hagar (placing it on her shoulder), also the boy, and sends her out; and she goes on, and goes astray in the wilderness of Beer-Sheba; 
and the water is consumed from the bottle, and she places the boy under one of the shrubs. 
And she goes and sits by herself opposite him, far off, about a bow-shot, for she said, “Do not let me look on the death of the boy”; and she sits opposite him, and lifts up her voice, and weeps. 
And God hears the voice of the youth; and the messenger of God calls to Hagar from the heavens and says to her, “What to you, Hagar? Do not fear; for God has listened to the voice of the youth where he is; 
rise, lift up the youth, and lay hold on him with your hand, for I set him for a great nation.” 
And God opens her eyes, and she sees a well of water, and she goes and fills the bottle with water, and causes the youth to drink; 
and God is with the youth, and he grows, and dwells in the wilderness, and is an archer; 
and he dwells in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother takes for him a wife from the land of Egypt. 
And it comes to pass at that time that Abimelech speaks—Phichol also, head of his host—to Abraham, saying, “God is with you in all that you are doing; 
and now, swear to me by God here: you do not lie to me, or to my continuator, or to my successor; according to the kindness which I have done with you—do with me, and with the land in which you have sojourned.” 
And Abraham says, “I swear.” 
And Abraham reasoned with Abimelech concerning the matter of a well of water which Abimelech’s servants have violently taken away, 
and Abimelech says, “I have not known who has done this thing, and even you did not declare to me, and I also, I have not heard except today.” 
And Abraham takes sheep and oxen, and gives to Abimelech, and they make, both of them, a covenant; 
and Abraham sets seven lambs of the flock by themselves. 
And Abimelech says to Abraham, “What are they—these seven lambs which you have set by themselves?” 
And he says, “For—the seven lambs you accept from my hand, so that it becomes a witness for me that I have dug this well”; 
therefore he has called that place “Beer-Sheba,” for both of them have sworn there. 
And they make a covenant in Beer-Sheba, and Abimelech rises—Phichol also, head of his host—and they return to the land of the Philistines; 
and Abraham plants a tamarisk in Beer-Sheba, and preaches there in the Name of YHWH, the perpetual God; 
and Abraham sojourns in the land of the Philistines many days. 
