Acts.
Chapter 5.
And a certain man, Ananias by name, with his wife Sapphira, sold a possession, 
and kept back of the price—his wife also knowing—and having brought a certain part, he laid it at the feet of the apostles. 
And Peter said, “Ananias, why did Satan fill your heart, for you to lie to the Holy Spirit, and to keep back of the price of the place? 
While it remained, did it not remain yours? And having been sold, was it not in your authority? Why is it that you put this thing in your heart? You did not lie to men, but to God”; 
and Ananias hearing these words, having fallen down, expired, and great fear came on all who heard these things, 
and having risen, the younger men wound him up, and having carried forth, they buried him. 
And it came to pass, about three hours after, that his wife, not knowing what has happened, came in, 
and Peter answered her, “Tell me if for so much you sold the place”; and she said, “Yes, for so much.” 
And Peter said to her, “How was it agreed by you to tempt the Spirit of the LORD? Behold, the feet of those who buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you forth”; 
and immediately she fell down at his feet, and expired, and the young men having come in, found her dead, and having carried forth, they buried her by her husband; 
and great fear came on all the Assembly, and on all who heard these things. 
And through the hands of the apostles came many signs and wonders among the people, and they were all with one accord in the porch of Solomon; 
and of the rest no one was daring to join himself to them, but the people were magnifying them, 
(and the more were believers added to the LORD, multitudes of both men and women), 
so as to bring forth the ailing into the broad places, and to lay them on beds and pallets, that at the coming of Peter, even his shadow might overshadow someone of them; 
and there were also coming together the people of the surrounding cities to Jerusalem, carrying ailing persons, and those harassed by unclean spirits—who were all healed. 
And having risen, the chief priest, and all those with him—being the sect of the Sadducees—were filled with zeal, 
and laid their hands on the apostles, and put them in a public prison; 
but through the night a messenger of the LORD opened the doors of the prison, having also brought them forth, he said, 
“Go on, and standing, speak in the temple to the people all the sayings of this life”; 
and having heard, they entered into the temple at the dawn, and were teaching. And the chief priest having come, and those with him, they called together the Sanhedrin and all the Senate of the sons of Israel, and they sent to the prison to have them brought, 
and the officers having come, did not find them in the prison, and having turned back, they told, 
saying, “We indeed found the prison shut in all safety, and the keepers standing outside before the doors, and having opened—we found no one within.” 
And as the priest, and the magistrate of the temple, and the chief priests, heard these words, they were doubting concerning them to what this would come; 
and coming near, a certain one told them, saying, “Behold, the men whom you put in the prison are in the temple standing and teaching the people”; 
then the magistrate having gone away with officers, brought them without violence, for they were fearing the people, lest they should be stoned; 
and having brought them, they set them in the Sanhedrin, and the chief priest questioned them, 
saying, “Did we not strictly command you not to teach in this Name? And behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching, and you intend to bring on us the blood of this Man.” 
And Peter and the apostles answering, said, “It is required to obey God, rather than men; 
and the God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you slew, having hanged on a tree; 
this One, God, a Prince and a Savior, has exalted with His right hand, to give conversion to Israel, and forgiveness of sins; 
and we are His witnesses of these sayings, and the Holy Spirit also, whom God gave to those obeying Him.” 
And they having heard, were cut to the heart, and were intending to slay them, 
but a certain one, having risen up in the Sanhedrin—a Pharisee, by name Gamaliel, a teacher of law honored by all the people—commanded to put the apostles forth a little, 
and said to them, “Men, Israelites, take heed to yourselves about these men, what you are about to do, 
for before these days Theudas rose up, saying that he was someone, to whom a number of men joined themselves, as it were four hundred, who was slain, and all, as many as were obeying him, were scattered, and came to nothing. 
After this one, Judas the Galilean rose up, in the days of the census, and drew away people after him, and that one perished, and all, as many as were obeying him, were scattered; 
and now I say to you, refrain from these men, and leave them alone, because if this counsel or this work may be of men, it will be overthrown, 
and if it be of God, you are not able to overthrow it, lest perhaps you are also found fighting against God.” 
And to him they agreed, and having called near the apostles, having beaten them, they commanded them not to speak in the Name of Jesus, and let them go; 
they, indeed, then, departed from the presence of the Sanhedrin, rejoicing that for His Name they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor, 
also every day in the temple, and in every house, they were not ceasing teaching and proclaiming good news—Jesus the Christ. 
