Romans.
Chapter 16.
And I commend you to Phoebe our sister—being a servant of the assembly that is in Cenchrea— 
that you may receive her in the LORD, worthily of the holy ones, and may assist her in whatever matter she may have need of you, for she also became a leader of many, and of myself. 
Greet Priscilla and Aquilas, my fellow-workmen in Christ Jesus— 
who laid down their own neck for my life, to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the assemblies of the nations— 
and the assembly at their house; greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is first-fruit of Achaia to Christ. 
Greet Mary, who labored much for us; 
greet Andronicus and Junias, my relatives, and my fellow-captives, who are of note among the apostles, who also have been in Christ before me. 
Greet Amplias, my beloved in the LORD; 
greet Arbanus, our fellow-workman in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved; 
greet Apelles, the approved in Christ; greet those of the household of Aristobulus; 
greet Herodion, my relative; greet those of the household of Narcissus, who are in the LORD; 
greet Tryphaena, and Tryphosa, who are laboring in the LORD; greet Persis, the beloved, who labored much in the LORD. 
Greet Rufus, the chosen one in the LORD, and his mother and mine, 
greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brothers with them; 
greet Philologus, and Julias, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the holy ones with them; 
greet one another in a holy kiss; the assemblies of Christ greet you. 
And I call on you, brothers, to mark those who are causing the divisions and the stumbling-blocks, contrary to the teaching that you learned, and turn away from them; 
for such do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly; and through the good word and fair speech they deceive the hearts of the harmless. 
For your obedience reached to all; I rejoice, therefore, as regards you, and I wish you to be wise, indeed, as to the good, and pure as to the evil; 
and the God of peace will bruise Satan under your feet quickly; the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen! 
Timotheus greets you, my fellow-workman, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives; 
I, Tertius, greet you (who wrote the letter) in the LORD; 
Gaius greets you, my host, and of the whole Assembly; Erastus greets you, the steward of the city, and Quartus the brother. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all! Amen. 
And to Him who is able to establish you, according to my good news, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the secret, having been kept secret in the times of the ages, 
and now having been revealed, also, through prophetic writings, according to a command of the perpetual God, having been made known to all the nations for obedience of faith— 
to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, to Him be glory for all ages. Amen.
