Ruth.
Chapter 3.
And her mother-in-law Naomi says to her, “My daughter, do I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you? 
And now, is not Boaz of our acquaintance, with whose young women you have been? Behold, he is winnowing the threshing-floor of barley tonight, 
and you have bathed, and anointed yourself, and put your garments on you, and gone down to the threshing-floor; do not let yourself be known to the man until he completes to eat and to drink; 
and it comes to pass, when he lies down, that you have known the place where he lies down, and have gone in, and uncovered his feet, and lain down—and he declares to you that which you do.” 
And she says to her, “All that you say—I do.” 
And she goes down to the threshing-floor, and does according to all that her mother-in-law commanded her 
And Boaz eats and drinks, and his heart is glad; and he goes in to lie down at the end of the heap; and she comes in gently, and uncovers his feet, and lies down. 
And it comes to pass, at the middle of the night, that the man trembles, and turns himself, and behold, a woman is lying at his feet. 
And he says, “Who are you?” And she says, “I am Ruth your handmaid, and you have spread your skirt over your handmaid, for you are a redeemer.” 
And he says, “Blessed are you of YHWH, my daughter; you have dealt more kindly at the latter end than at the beginning—not to go after the young men, either poor or rich. 
And now, my daughter, do not fear, all that you say I do to you, for all the gate of my people knows that you are a virtuous woman. 
And now, surely, true, that I am a redeemer, but also there is a redeemer nearer than I. 
Lodge tonight, and it has been in the morning, if he redeems you, well: he redeems; and if he does not delight to redeem you, then I have redeemed you—I; YHWH lives! Lie down until the morning.” 
And she lies down at his feet until the morning, and rises before one discerns another; and he says, “Let it not be known that the woman has come into the floor.” 
And he says, “Give the covering which is on you, and keep hold on it”; and she keeps hold on it, and he measures six measures of barley, and lays it on her; and he goes into the city. 
And she comes to her mother-in-law, and she says, “Who are you, my daughter?” And she declares to her all that the man has done to her. 
And she says, “These six measures of barley he has given to me, for he said, You do not go in empty to your mother-in-law.” 
And she says, “Sit still, my daughter, until you know how the matter falls, for the man does not rest except he has completed the matter today.” 
