Genesis.
Chapter 11.
And the whole earth is of one language, and of the same words, 
and it comes to pass, in their journeying from the east, that they find a valley in the land of Shinar and dwell there; 
and they each say to his neighbor, “Give help, let us make bricks, and burn them thoroughly”: and the brick is to them for stone, and the bitumen has been to them for mortar. 
And they say, “Give help, let us build for ourselves a city and tower with its head in the heavens, and make for ourselves a name, lest we be scattered over the face of all the earth.” 
And YHWH comes down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men have built; 
and YHWH says, “Behold, the people is one, and one language is to them all, and this it has dreamed of doing; and now, nothing is restrained from them of that which they have purposed to do. 
Give help, let us go down there and confuse their language, so that a man will not understand the language of his companion.” 
And YHWH scatters them from there over the face of all the earth, and they cease to build the city; 
therefore one has called its name Babel, for there YHWH has confused the language of all the earth, and from there YHWH has scattered them over the face of all the earth. 
These are the generations of Shem: Shem is a son of one hundred years, and begets Arphaxad two years after the flood. 
And Shem lives after his begetting Arphaxad five hundred years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And Arphaxad has lived thirty-five years or one hundred and thirty-five years, and begets Salah. 
And Arphaxad lives after his begetting Salah four hundred and three years or four hundred and thirty years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And Salah has lived thirty years or one hundred and thirty years, and begets Eber. 
And Salah lives after his begetting Eber four hundred and three years or three hundred and thirty years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And Eber lives thirty-four years or one hundred and thirty-four years, and begets Peleg. 
And Eber lives after his begetting Peleg four hundred and thirty years or three hundred and seventy years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And Peleg lives thirty years or one hundred and thirty years, and begets Reu. 
And Peleg lives after his begetting Reu two hundred and nine years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And Reu lives thirty-two years or one hundred and thirty-two years, and begets Serug. 
And Reu lives after his begetting Serug two hundred and seven years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And Serug lives thirty years or one hundred and thirty years, and begets Nahor. 
And Serug lives after his begetting Nahor two hundred years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And Nahor lives twenty-nine years or seventy-nine years, and begets Terah. 
And Nahor lives after his begetting Terah one hundred and nineteen years or one hundred and twenty-nine years, and begets sons and daughters. 
And Terah lives seventy years, and begets Abram, Nahor, and Haran. 
And these are the generations of Terah: Terah has begotten Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran has begotten Lot; 
and Haran dies in the presence of Terah his father, in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldees. 
And Abram and Nahor take to themselves wives; the name of Abram’s wife is Sarai, and the name of Nahor’s wife is Milcah, daughter of Haran, father of Milcah, and father of Iscah. 
And Sarai is barren—she has no child. 
And Terah takes his son Abram, and Lot, son of Haran, his son’s son, and his daughter-in-law Sarai, wife of his son Abram, and they go out with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go toward the land of Canaan; and they come to Haran, and dwell there. 
And the days of Terah are two hundred and five years, and Terah dies in Haran. 
