1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 5.
And concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need of my writing to you, 
for you have thoroughly known that the Day of the LORD so comes as a thief in the night, 
for when they may say, “Peace and security,” then sudden destruction comes on them, as the travail on her who is with child, and they will not escape; 
but you, brothers, are not in darkness, that the Day may catch you as a thief; 
you are all sons of light, and sons of day; we are not of night, nor of darkness, 
so, then, we may not sleep as also the others, but watch and be sober, 
for those sleeping, sleep by night, and those making themselves drunk, are drunken by night, 
and we, being of the day—let us be sober, putting on a breastplate of faith and love, and a helmet—a hope of salvation, 
because God did not appoint us to anger, but to the acquiring of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
who died for us, that whether we wake—whether we sleep—we may live together with Him; 
for this reason, comfort one another, and build up one another, as also you do. 
And we ask you, brothers, to know those laboring among you and leading you in the LORD and admonishing you, 
and to esteem them very abundantly in love, because of their work; be at peace among yourselves; 
and we exhort you, brothers, admonish the disorderly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient to all; 
see that no one may render evil for evil to anyone, but always pursue that which is good, both to one another and to all; 
always rejoice; 
continually pray; 
give thanks in everything, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus in regard to you. 
Do not quench the Spirit; 
do not despise prophesyings; 
prove all things; hold fast to that which is good; 
abstain from all appearance of evil; 
and may the God of peace Himself sanctify you wholly, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved, unblameably at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ; 
He who is calling you is steadfast, who also will do it. 
Brothers, pray for us. 
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. 
I charge you by the LORD, that the letter be read to all the holy brothers. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ is with you! Amen.
