2 Kings.
Chapter 18.
And it comes to pass, in the third year of Hoshea son of Elah, king of Israel, Hezekiah son of Ahaz, king of Judah, has reigned; 
he was a son of twenty-five years in his reigning, and he has reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother is Abi daughter of Zechariah. 
And he does that which is right in the eyes of YHWH, according to all that his father David did, 
he has turned aside the high places, and broken in pieces the standing-pillars, and cut down the Asherah, and beaten down the bronze serpent that Moses made, for up to these days the sons of Israel were making incense to it, and he calls it “a piece of bronze.” 
In YHWH, God of Israel, he has trusted, and after him there has not been like him among all the kings of Judah, nor among any who were before him; 
and he cleaves to YHWH, he has not turned aside from after Him, and keeps His commands that YHWH commanded Moses. 
And YHWH has been with him; in every place where he goes out he acts wisely, and he rebels against the king of Asshur, and has not served him; 
he has struck the Philistines, even to Gaza and its borders, from a tower of watchers to the fortified city. 
And it comes to pass, in the fourth year of King Hezekiah—it is the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah, king of Israel—Shalmaneser king of Asshur has come up against Samaria and lays siege to it, 
and they capture it at the end of three years; in the sixth year of Hezekiah—it is the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel—Samaria has been captured, 
and the king of Asshur removes Israel to Asshur, and placed them in Halah, and in Habor by the river Gozan, and in cities of the Medes, 
because that they have not listened to the voice of their God YHWH, and transgress His covenant—all that He commanded Moses, servant of YHWH—indeed, they have not listened nor done it. 
And in the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Asshur has come up against all the fortified cities of Judah, and seizes them, 
and Hezekiah king of Judah sends to the king of Asshur at Lachish, saying, “I have sinned, turn back from off me; that which you put on me I bear”; and the king of Asshur lays on Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold, 
and Hezekiah gives all the silver that is found in the house of YHWH and in the treasures of the house of the king; 
at that time Hezekiah has cut off the doors of the temple of YHWH, and the pillars that Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid, and gives them to the king of Asshur. 
And the king of Asshur sends Tartan, and the chief of the eunuchs, and the chief of the butlers, from Lachish, to King Hezekiah, with a heavy force, to Jerusalem, and they go up and come to Jerusalem, and they go up, and come in and stand by the conduit of the upper pool that is in the highway of the fuller’s field. 
And they call to the king, and Eliakim son of Hilkiah, who is over the house, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah son of Asaph, the remembrancer, go out to them. 
And the chief of the butlers says to them, “Now say to Hezekiah, Thus said the great king, the king of Asshur: What is this confidence in which you have confided? 
You have said: Only a word of the lips! Counsel and might are for battle; now, on whom have you trusted that you have rebelled against me? 
Now behold, you have trusted for yourself on the staff of this broken reed, on Egypt; which a man leans on, and it has gone into his hand and pierced it! So is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all those trusting on him. 
And when you say to me, We have trusted in our God YHWH, is it not He whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has turned aside, and says to Judah and to Jerusalem, You bow yourselves before this altar in Jerusalem? 
And now, please give a pledge for yourself to my lord the king of Asshur, and I give two thousand horses to you, if you are able to give riders for yourself on them. 
And how do you turn back the face of one captain of the least of the servants of my lord, that you trust for yourself on Egypt for chariot and for horsemen? 
Have I now come up without YHWH against this place to destroy it? YHWH said to me, Go up against this land, and you have destroyed it.” 
And Eliakim son of Hilkiah says—and Shebna and Joah—to the chief of the butlers, “Please speak to your servants in Aramaic, for we are understanding, but do not speak with us in Jewish, in the ears of the people who are on the wall.” 
And the chief of the butlers says to them, “For your lord, and to you, has my lord sent me to speak these words? Is it not for the men—those sitting on the wall—to eat their own dung and to drink their own water, with you?” 
And the chief of the butlers stands and calls with a great voice in Jewish, and speaks and says, “Hear a word of the great king, the king of Asshur— 
thus said the king: Do not let Hezekiah lift you up, for he is not able to deliver you out of his hand; 
and do not let Hezekiah make you trust in YHWH, saying, YHWH certainly delivers us, and this city is not given into the hand of the king of Asshur. 
Do not listen to Hezekiah, for thus said the king of Asshur: Make a blessing with me, and come out to me, and each eat of his vine, and each eat of his fig tree, and each drink the waters of his own well, 
until my coming in, and I have taken you to a land like your own land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive oil, and honey; and live, and do not die; and do not listen to Hezekiah when he persuades you, saying, YHWH delivers us. 
Have each of the gods of the nations ever delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Asshur? 
Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah, that they have delivered Samaria out of my hand? 
Who are they among all the gods of the lands that have delivered their land out of my hand, that YHWH delivers Jerusalem out of my hand?” 
And the people have kept silent, and have not answered him a word, for the command of the king is, saying, “Do not answer him.” 
And Eliakim son of Hilkiah, who is over the house, comes in, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah son of Asaph, the remembrancer, to Hezekiah, with torn garments, and they declare to him the words of the chief of the butlers. 
