Leviticus.
Chapter 23.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you have said to them: Appointed times of YHWH, which you proclaim as holy convocations, these are My appointed times. 
For six days work is done, and in the seventh day is a Sabbath of rest, a holy convocation; you do no work; it is a Sabbath to YHWH in all your dwellings. 
These are appointed times of YHWH, holy convocations, which you proclaim in their appointed times: 
in the first month, on the fourteenth of the month, between the evenings, is the Passover to YHWH; 
and on the fifteenth day of this month is the Celebration of Unleavened Things to YHWH; for seven days you eat unleavened things; 
on the first day you have a holy convocation, you do no servile work; 
and you have brought a fire-offering near to YHWH for seven days; in the seventh day is a holy convocation; you do no servile work.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you have said to them: When you come into the land which I am giving to you, and have reaped its harvest, and have brought in the sheaf, the beginning of your harvest to the priest, 
then he has waved the sheaf before YHWH for your acceptance; on the next day of the Sabbath the priest waves it. 
And you have prepared a lamb, a perfect one, a son of a year, in the day of your waving the sheaf for a burnt-offering to YHWH, 
and its present is two-tenth parts of flour mixed with oil, a fire-offering to YHWH, a refreshing fragrance, and its drink-offering is a fourth of the hin of wine. 
And you do not eat bread and roasted grain and full ears until this very day, until your bringing in the offering of your God—a continuous statute throughout your generations, in all your dwellings. 
And you have numbered for yourselves from the day after the Sabbath, from the day of your bringing in the sheaf of the wave-offering: they are seven perfect Sabbaths; 
you number fifty days to the day after the seventh Sabbath, and you have brought a new present near to YHWH; 
you bring in two loaves of bread out of your dwellings for a wave-offering; they are of two-tenth parts of flour; they are baked with yeast—first-fruits to YHWH. 
And you have brought near, besides the bread, seven lambs, perfect ones, sons of a year, and one bullock, a son of the herd, and two rams; they are a burnt-offering to YHWH, with their present and their drink-offerings, a fire-offering of refreshing fragrance to YHWH. 
And you have prepared one kid of the goats for a sin-offering, and two lambs, sons of a year, for a sacrifice of peace-offerings, 
and the priest has waved them, besides the bread of the first-fruits, as a wave-offering before YHWH, besides the two lambs; they are holy to YHWH for the priest; 
and you have proclaimed in this very day that it is a holy convocation for yourselves, you do no servile work—a continuous statute in all your dwellings, throughout your generations. 
And in your reaping the harvest of your land you do not complete the corner of your field in your reaping, and you do not gather the gleaning of your harvest, you leave them for the poor and for the sojourner; I am your God YHWH.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, on the first of the month, you have a Sabbath, a memorial of shouting, a holy convocation; 
you do no servile work, and you have brought a fire-offering near to YHWH.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Only—on the tenth of this seventh month is the Day of Atonements; you have a holy convocation, and you have humbled yourselves, and have brought a fire-offering near to YHWH; 
and you do no work in this very day, for it is a day of atonements, to make atonement for you, before your God YHWH. 
For any person who is not humbled in this very day has even been cut off from his people; 
and any person who does any work in this very day, I have even destroyed that person from the midst of his people; 
you do no work—a continuous statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings. 
It is a Sabbath of rest for yourselves, and you have humbled yourselves in the ninth of the month at evening; you keep your Sabbath from evening until evening.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, In the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the Celebration of Shelters for seven days to YHWH; 
the first day is a holy convocation, you do no servile work; 
for seven days you bring a fire-offering near to YHWH, on the eighth day you have a holy convocation, and you have brought a fire-offering near to YHWH; it is a restraint, you do no servile work. 
These are appointed times of YHWH, which you proclaim as holy convocations, to bring a fire-offering near to YHWH, a burnt-offering, and a present, a sacrifice, and drink-offerings, a thing of a day in its day, 
apart from the Sabbaths of YHWH, and apart from your gifts, and apart from all your vows, and apart from all your willing-offerings, which you give to YHWH. 
Only—on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, in your gathering the increase of the land, you keep the celebration of YHWH for seven days; on the first day is a Sabbath, and on the eighth day a Sabbath; 
and you have taken for yourselves on the first day the fruit of beautiful trees, branches of palms, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of a brook, and have rejoiced before your God YHWH for seven days. 
And you have kept it as a celebration to YHWH, seven days in a year—a continuous statute throughout your generations; in the seventh month you keep it as a celebration. 
You dwell in shelters for seven days; all who are natives in Israel dwell in shelters, 
so that your generations know that I caused the sons of Israel to dwell in shelters in My bringing them out of the land of Egypt; I am your God YHWH.” 
And Moses speaks to the sons of Israel concerning the appointed times of YHWH. 
