Acts.
Chapter 8.
And Saul was assenting to his death, and there came in that day a great persecution on the Assembly in Jerusalem, all were also scattered abroad in the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles; 
and devout men carried Stephen away, and made great lamentation over him; 
and Saul was making havoc of the Assembly, entering into every house, and dragging away men and women, giving them up to prison; 
they then indeed, having been scattered, went abroad proclaiming good news—the word. 
And Philip having gone down to a city of Samaria, was preaching the Christ to them; 
the multitudes were also giving heed to the things spoken by Philip, with one accord, in their hearing and seeing the signs that he was doing, 
for unclean spirits came forth from many who were possessed, crying with a loud voice, and many who have been paralytic and lame were healed, 
and there was great joy in that city. 
And a certain man, by name Simon, was previously in the city using magic, and amazing the nation of Samaria, saying himself to be a certain great one, 
to whom they were all giving heed, from small to great, saying, “This one is the great power of God”; 
and they were giving heed to him, because of his having amazed them for a long time with deeds of magic. 
And when they believed Philip, proclaiming good news, the things concerning the Kingdom of God and the Name of Jesus Christ, they were immersed—both men and women; 
and Simon himself also believed, and having been immersed, he was continuing with Philip, beholding also signs and mighty acts being done, he was amazed. 
And the apostles in Jerusalem having heard that Samaria has received the word of God, sent Peter and John to them, 
who having come down prayed concerning them, that they may receive the Holy Spirit— 
for as yet He was fallen on none of them, and only they have been immersed—into the Name of the Lord Jesus; 
then they were laying hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit. 
And Simon, having beheld that through the laying on of the hands of the apostles the Holy Spirit is given, brought money before them, 
saying, “Give also to me this authority, that on whomsoever I may lay the hands, he may receive the Holy Spirit.” 
And Peter said to him, “Your silver with you—may it be to destruction! Because you thought to possess the gift of God through money; 
you have neither part nor lot in this thing, for your heart is not right before God; 
convert, therefore, from this your wickedness, and implore God, if then the purpose of your heart may be forgiven you, 
for in the gall of bitterness, and bond of unrighteousness, I perceive you being.” 
And Simon answering, said, “Implore for me to the LORD, that nothing may come on me of the things you have spoken.” 
They indeed, therefore, having testified fully, and spoken the word of the LORD, turned back to Jerusalem; they also proclaimed good news in many villages of the Samaritans. 
And a messenger of the LORD spoke to Philip, saying, “Arise, and go on toward the south, on the way that is going down from Jerusalem to Gaza.” (This is desolate.) 
And having arisen, he went on, and behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch, a man of rank, of Candace the queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasure, who had come to Jerusalem to worship; 
he was also returning, and is sitting on his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah. 
And the Spirit said to Philip, “Go near, and be joined to this chariot”; 
and Philip having run near, heard him reading the prophet Isaiah and said, “Do you then know what you read?” 
And he said, “Why, how am I able, if someone may not guide me?” He called Philip also, having come up, to sit with him. 
And the passage of the Writing that he was reading was this: “He was led as a sheep to slaughter, || And as a lamb before his shearer is silent, || So He does not open His mouth; 
In His humiliation His judgment was taken away, || And His generation—who will declare? Because His life is taken from the earth.” 
And the eunuch answering Philip said, “I beg you, about whom does the prophet say this? About himself, or about some other one?” 
And Philip having opened his mouth, and having begun from this Writing, proclaimed good news to him—Jesus. 
And as they were going on the way, they came on some water, and the eunuch said, “Behold, water; what hinders me to be immersed?” 
And Philip said, “If you believe out of all the heart, it is lawful”; and he answering said, “I believe Jesus Christ to be the Son of God”; 
and he commanded the chariot to stand still, and they both went down to the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and he immersed him; 
and when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the LORD snatched up Philip, and the eunuch saw him no more, for he was going on his way rejoicing; 
and Philip was found at Azotus, and passing through, he was proclaiming good news to all the cities, until his coming to Caesarea. 
