Revelation.
Chapter 11.
And there was given to me a reed like to a rod, and the messenger stood, saying, “Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and those worshiping in it; 
and leave out the court that is outside the temple, and you may not measure it, because it was given to the nations, and they will tread down the holy city forty-two months; 
and I will give to My two witnesses, and they will prophesy one thousand, two hundred, sixty days, clothed with sackcloth”; 
these are the two olive trees, and the two lampstands that stand before the God of the earth; 
and if anyone may will to injure them, fire proceeds out of their mouth, and devours their enemies, and if anyone may will to injure them, thus it is required of him to be killed. 
These have authority to shut the sky, that rain may not rain in the days of their prophecy, and they have authority over the waters to turn them to blood, and to strike the land with every plague, as often as they may will. 
And when they may finish their testimony, the beast that is coming up out of the abyss will make war with them, and overcome them, and kill them, 
and their body is on the street of the great city that is called spiritually Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified, 
and they gaze—those of the peoples, and tribes, and tongues, and nations—on their dead bodies three and a half days, and they will not allow their dead bodies to be put into tombs, 
and those dwelling on the earth will rejoice over them, and will make merry, and they will send gifts to one another, because these—the two prophets—tormented those dwelling on the earth. 
And after the three and a half days, the Spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood on their feet, and great fear fell on those beholding them, 
and they heard a great voice out of Heaven saying to them, “Come up here”; and they went up to Heaven in the cloud, and their enemies beheld them; 
and in that hour a great earthquake came, and the tenth of the city fell, and seven thousand names of men were killed in the earthquake, and the rest became frightened, and they gave glory to the God of Heaven. 
The second woe went forth, behold, the third woe comes quickly. 
And the seventh messenger sounded the trumpet, and there came great voices in Heaven, saying, “The kingdoms of the world became those of our Lord and of His Christ, and He will reign through the ages of the ages!” 
And the twenty-four elders, who are sitting on their thrones before God, fell on their faces and worshiped God, 
saying, “We give thanks to You, O LORD God, the Almighty, who is, and who was, and who is coming, because You have taken Your great power and reigned; 
and the nations were angry, and Your anger came, and the time of the dead to be judged, and to give the reward to Your servants, to the prophets, and to the holy ones, and to those fearing Your Name, to the small and to the great, and to destroy those who are destroying the earth.” 
And the temple of God was opened in Heaven, and the Ark of His Covenant was seen in His temple, and there came lightnings, and voices, and thunders, and an earthquake, and great hail. 
