Luke.
Chapter 19.
And having entered, He was passing through Jericho, 
and behold, a man, by name called Zaccheus, and he was a chief tax collector, and he was rich, 
and he was seeking to see Jesus, who He is, and was not able for the multitude, because he was small in stature, 
and having run forward before, he went up on a sycamore, that he may see Him, because through that way He was about to pass by. 
And as Jesus came up to the place, having looked up, He saw him and said to him, “Zaccheus, having hurried, come down, for it is necessary for Me to remain in your house today”; 
and he having hurried came down, and received Him rejoicing; 
and having seen it, they were all murmuring, saying, “He went in to lodge with a sinful man!” 
And Zaccheus having stood, said to the LORD, “Behold, half of my goods, Lord, I give to the poor, and if I took by false accusation anything of anyone, I give back fourfold.” 
And Jesus said to him, “Today salvation came to this house, inasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham; 
for the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost.” 
And while they are hearing these things, having added He spoke an allegory, because of His being near to Jerusalem, and of their thinking that the Kingdom of God is immediately about to appear. 
He therefore said, “A certain man of birth went on to a far country, to take to himself a kingdom, and to return, 
and having called ten servants of his own, he gave ten minas to them and said to them, Do business—until I come; 
and his citizens were hating him, and sent a delegation after him, saying, We do not wish this one to reign over us. 
And it came to pass, on his coming back, having taken the kingdom, that he commanded these servants to be called to him, to whom he gave the money, that he might know what anyone had done in business. 
And the first came near, saying, Lord, your mina gained ten minas; 
and he said to him, Well done, good servant, because you became faithful in a very little, be having authority over ten cities. 
And the second came, saying, Lord, your mina made five minas; 
and he also said to this one, And you, become ruler over five cities. 
And another came, saying, Lord, behold, your mina, that I had lying away in a napkin; 
for I was afraid of you, because you are an austere man; you take up what you did not lay down, and reap what you did not sow. 
And he says to him, Out of your mouth I will judge you, evil servant: you knew that I am an austere man, taking up what I did not lay down, and reaping what I did not sow! 
And why did you not give my money to the bank, and I, having come, might have received it with interest? 
And to those standing by he said, Take the mina from him, and give to him having the ten minas— 
(and they said to him, Lord, he has ten minas)— 
for I say to you that to everyone having will be given, and from him not having, also what he has will be taken from him, 
but those my enemies, who did not wish me to reign over them, bring here and slay before me.” 
And having said these things, He went on before, going up to Jerusalem. 
And it came to pass, as He came near to Bethphage and Bethany, to that called the Mount of Olives, He sent two of His disciples, 
having said, “Go away into the village in front of you, in which, entering in, you will find a colt bound, on which no one of men ever sat, having loosed it, bring it; 
and if anyone questions you, Why do you loose it? Thus you will say to him: The LORD has need of it.” 
And those sent, having gone away, found according as He said to them, 
and while they are loosing the colt, its owners said to them, “Why do you loose the colt?” 
And they said, “The LORD has need of it”; 
and they brought it to Jesus, and having cast their garments on the colt, they sat Jesus on it. 
And as He is going, they were spreading their garments in the way, 
and as He is coming near now, at the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began rejoicing to praise God with a great voice for all the mighty works they had seen, 
saying, “Blessed is the King coming in the Name of the LORD; peace in Heaven, and glory in the highest!” 
And certain of the Pharisees from the multitude said to Him, “Teacher, rebuke Your disciples”; 
and He answering said to them, “I say to you that if these will be silent, the stones will cry out!” 
And when He came near, having seen the city, He wept over it, 
saying, “If you knew, even you, at least in this your day, the things for your peace; but now they were hid from your eyes. 
Because days will come on you, and your enemies will cast a rampart around you, and surround you around, and press you on every side, 
and lay you low, and your children within you, and they will not leave in you a stone on a stone, because you did not know the time of your inspection.” 
And having entered into the temple, He began to cast forth those selling in it, and those buying, 
saying to them, “It has been written, My house is a house of prayer—but you made it a den of robbers.” 
And He was teaching daily in the temple, but the chief priests and the scribes were seeking to destroy Him—also the chiefs of the people— 
and they were not finding what they will do, for all the people were hanging on Him, hearing Him. 
