Numbers.
Chapter 3.
And these are the generations of Aaron and Moses, in the day of YHWH’s speaking with Moses in Mount Sinai. 
And these are the names of the sons of Aaron: the firstborn Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar; 
these are the names of the sons of Aaron, the anointed priests, whose hand he has consecrated for acting as priest. 
And Nadab dies—Abihu also—before YHWH, in their bringing strange fire near before YHWH, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they did not have sons; and Eleazar—Ithamar also—acts as priest in the presence of their father Aaron. 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Bring the tribe of Levi near, and you have caused it to stand before Aaron the priest, and they have served him, 
and kept his charge, and the charge of all the congregation before the Tent of Meeting, to do the service of the Dwelling Place; 
and they have kept all the vessels of the Tent of Meeting, and the charge of the sons of Israel, to do the service of the Dwelling Place; 
and you have given the Levites to Aaron and to his sons; they are surely given to him out of the sons of Israel. 
And you appoint Aaron and his sons, and they have kept their priesthood, and the stranger who comes near is put to death.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“And I, behold, have taken the Levites from the midst of the sons of Israel instead of every firstborn opening a womb among the sons of Israel, and the Levites have been Mine; 
for every firstborn is Mine, in the day of My striking every firstborn in the land of Egypt I have sanctified to Myself every firstborn in Israel, from man to beast; they are Mine; I am YHWH.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying, 
“Number the sons of Levi by the house of their fathers, by their families; every male from a son of a month and upward—you number them.” 
And Moses numbers them according to the command of YHWH, as he has been commanded. 
And these are the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. 
And these are the names of the sons of Gershon by their families: Libni and Shimei. 
And the sons of Kohath by their families: Amram, and Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
And the sons of Merari by their families: Mahli and Mushi; these are the families of the Levites, by the house of their fathers. 
Of Gershon—the family of the Libnite and the family of the Shimite; these are the families of the Gershonite. 
Their numbered ones, in number, every male from a son of a month and upward, their numbered ones are seven thousand and five hundred. 
The families of the Gershonite encamp westward behind the Dwelling Place. 
And the prince of a father’s house for the Gershonite is Eliasaph son of Lael. 
And the charge of the sons of Gershon in the Tent of Meeting is the Dwelling Place, and the tent, its covering, and the veil at the opening of the Tent of Meeting, 
and the hangings of the court, and the veil at the opening of the court, which is by the Dwelling Place and by the altar all around, and its cords, to all its service. 
And of Kohath—the family of the Amramite, and the family of the Izharite, and the family of the Hebronite, and the family of the Uzzielite; these are families of the Kohathite. 
In number, all the males, from a son of a month and upward, are eight thousand and six hundred, keeping the charge of the holy place. 
The families of the sons of Kohath encamp southward by the side of the Dwelling Place. 
And the prince of a father’s house for the families of the Kohathite is Elizaphan son of Uzziel. 
And their charge is the Ark, and the table, and the lampstand, and the altars, and the vessels of the holy place with which they serve, and the veil, and all its service. 
And Eleazar son of Aaron the priest is the prince of the princes of the Levites, with the oversight of the keepers of the charge of the holy place. 
Of Merari—the family of the Mahlite and the family of the Mushite; these are the families of Merari. 
And their numbered ones, in number, all the males from a son of a month and upward, are six thousand and two hundred. 
And the prince of a father’s house for the families of Merari is Zuriel son of Abihail; they encamp northward by the side of the Dwelling Place. 
And the oversight and charge of the sons of Merari are the boards of the Dwelling Place, and its bars, and its pillars, and its sockets, and all its vessels, and all its service, 
and the pillars of the court all around, and their sockets, and their pins, and their cords. 
And those encamping before the Dwelling Place eastward, before the Tent of Meeting, at the east, are Moses and Aaron, and his sons, keeping the charge of the sanctuary for the charge of the sons of Israel, and the stranger who comes near is put to death. 
All those numbered of the Levites whom Moses numbered—Aaron also—by the command of YHWH, by their families, every male from a son of a month and upward, are twenty-two thousand. 
And YHWH says to Moses, “Number every firstborn male of the sons of Israel from a son of a month and upward, and take up the number of their names; 
and you have taken the Levites for Me (I am YHWH), instead of every firstborn among the sons of Israel, and the livestock of the Levites instead of every firstling among the livestock of the sons of Israel.” 
And Moses numbers, as YHWH has commanded him, all the firstborn among the sons of Israel. 
And every firstborn male, by the number of names, from a son of a month and upward, of their numbered ones, are twenty-two thousand two hundred and seventy-three. 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Take the Levites instead of every firstborn among the sons of Israel, and the livestock of the Levites instead of their livestock; and the Levites have been Mine; I am YHWH. 
And from those ransomed of the two hundred and seventy-three of the firstborn of the sons of Israel, who are more than the Levites, 
you have even taken five shekels apiece by the counted head—you take by the shekel of the holy place; the shekel is twenty gerahs; 
and you have given the money to Aaron and to his sons, whereby those over and above are ransomed.” 
And Moses takes the ransom money from those over and above those ransomed by the Levites; 
he has taken the money from the firstborn of the sons of Israel—one thousand and three hundred and sixty-five, by the shekel of the holy place; 
and Moses gives the money of those ransomed to Aaron and to his sons, according to the command of YHWH, as YHWH has commanded Moses. 
