Genesis.
Chapter 9.
And God blesses Noah and his sons, and says to them, “Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the earth; 
and your fear and your dread is on every beast of the earth, and on every bird of the heavens, on all that creeps on the ground, and on all fishes of the sea—into your hand they have been given. 
Every creeping thing that is alive, to you it is for food; as the green herb I have given to you the whole; 
only flesh in its life—its blood—you do not eat. 
And only your blood for your lives do I require; from the hand of every living thing I require it, and from the hand of man, from the hand of every man’s brother I require the life of man; 
whoever sheds man’s blood, by man is his blood shed: for in the image of God has He made man. 
And you, be fruitful and multiply, teem in the earth, and multiply in it.” 
And God speaks to Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 
“And I, behold, I am establishing My covenant with you, and with your seed after you, 
and with every living creature which is with you, among bird, among livestock, and among every beast of the earth with you, from all who are going out of the Ark—to every beast of the earth. 
And I have established My covenant with you, and all flesh is not cut off anymore by waters of a flood, and there is not a flood to destroy the earth anymore.” 
And God says, “This is a token of the covenant which I am giving between Me and you, and every living creature that is with you, to continuous generations; 
My bow I have given in the cloud, and it has been for a token of a covenant between Me and the earth; 
and it has come to pass (in My sending a cloud over the earth) that the bow has been seen in the cloud, 
and I have remembered My covenant which is between Me and you, and every living creature among all flesh, and the waters no longer become a flood to destroy all flesh; 
and the bow has been in the cloud, and I have seen it—to remember the perpetual covenant between God and every living creature among all flesh which is on the earth.” 
And God says to Noah, “This is a token of the covenant which I have established between Me and all flesh that is on the earth.” 
And the sons of Noah who are going out of the Ark are Shem, and Ham, and Japheth; and Ham is father of Canaan. 
These three are sons of Noah, and from these has all the earth been overspread. 
And Noah remains a man of the ground, and plants a vineyard, 
and drinks of the wine, and is drunken, and uncovers himself in the midst of the tent. 
And Ham, father of Canaan, sees the nakedness of his father, and declares to his two brothers outside. 
And Shem takes—Japheth also—the garment, and they place on the shoulder of them both, and go backward, and cover the nakedness of their father; and their faces are backward, and their father’s nakedness they have not seen. 
And Noah awakens from his wine, and knows that which his young son has done to him, 
and says: “Cursed is Canaan, || Servant of servants he is to his brothers.” 
And he says: “Blessed of my God YHWH is Shem, || And Canaan is servant to him. 
God gives beauty to Japheth, || And he dwells in tents of Shem, || And Canaan is servant to him.” 
And Noah lives after the flood three hundred and fifty years; 
and all the days of Noah are nine hundred and fifty years, and he dies. 
