The Gospel of Matthew.
Chapter 1.
The scroll of the birth of Jesus Christ, Son of David, Son of Abraham. 
Abraham begot Isaac, and Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot Judah and his brothers, 
and Judah begot Perez and Zerah of Tamar, and Perez begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Ram, 
and Ram begot Amminadab, and Amminadab begot Nahshon, and Nahshon begot Salmon, 
and Salmon begot Boaz of Rahab, and Boaz begot Obed of Ruth, and Obed begot Jesse, 
and Jesse begot David the king. And David the king begot Solomon, of her who had been Uriah’s, 
and Solomon begot Rehoboam, and Rehoboam begot Abijah, and Abijah begot Asa, 
and Asa begot Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat begot Joram, and Joram begot Uzziah, 
and Uzziah begot Jotham, and Jotham begot Ahaz, and Ahaz begot Hezekiah, 
and Hezekiah begot Manasseh, and Manasseh begot Amon, and Amon begot Josiah, 
and Josiah begot Jeconiah and his brothers, at the Babylonian removal. 
And after the Babylonian removal, Jeconiah begot Shealtiel, and Shealtiel begot Zerubbabel, 
and Zerubbabel begot Abiud, and Abiud begot Eliakim, and Eliakim begot Azor, 
and Azor begot Sadok, and Sadok begot Achim, and Achim begot Eliud, 
and Eliud begot Eleazar, and Eleazar begot Matthan, and Matthan begot Jacob, 
and Jacob begot Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was begotten Jesus, who is named Christ. 
All the generations, therefore, from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, and from David to the Babylonian removal fourteen generations, and from the Babylonian removal to the Christ, fourteen generations. 
And of Jesus Christ, the birth was thus: for His mother Mary having been betrothed to Joseph, before their coming together she was found to have conceived from the Holy Spirit, 
and her husband Joseph being righteous, and not willing to make her an example, resolved to send her away privately. 
And on his thinking of these things, behold, a messenger of the LORD appeared to him in a dream, saying, “Joseph, son of David, you may not fear to receive your wife Mary, for that which was begotten in her is of the Holy Spirit, 
and she will bring forth a Son, and you will call His Name Jesus, for He will save His people from their sins.” 
And all this has come to pass, that it may be fulfilled that was spoken by the LORD through the prophet, saying, 
“Behold, the virgin will conceive, and she will bring forth a Son, and they will call His Name Emmanuel,” which is, being interpreted, “God with us.” 
And Joseph, having risen from sleep, did as the messenger of the LORD directed him, and received his wife, 
and did not know her until she brought forth her Son—the firstborn, and he called His Name Jesus. 
