Ezra.
Chapter 2.
And these are sons of the province who are going up—of the captives of the expulsion that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon removed to Babylon, and they return to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his city— 
who have come in with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel: 
sons of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two; 
sons of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two; 
sons of Arah, seven hundred seventy-five; 
sons of Pahath-Moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve; 
sons of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four; 
sons of Zattu, nine hundred and forty-five; 
sons of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty; 
sons of Bani, six hundred forty-two; 
sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty-three; 
sons of Azgad, one thousand two hundred twenty-two; 
sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-six; 
sons of Bigvai, two thousand fifty-six; 
sons of Adin, four hundred fifty-four; 
sons of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety-eight; 
sons of Bezai, three hundred twenty-three; 
sons of Jorah, one hundred and twelve; 
sons of Hashum, two hundred twenty-three; 
sons of Gibbar, ninety-five; 
sons of Beth-Lehem, one hundred twenty-three; 
men of Netophah, fifty-six; 
men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight; 
sons of Azmaveth, forty-two; 
sons of Kirjath-Arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty-three; 
sons of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty-one; 
men of Michmas, one hundred twenty-two; 
men of Beth-El and Ai, two hundred twenty-three; 
sons of Nebo, fifty-two; 
sons of Magbish, one hundred fifty-six; 
sons of another Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four; 
sons of Harim, three hundred and twenty; 
sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-five; 
sons of Jericho, three hundred forty-five; 
sons of Senaah, three thousand and six hundred and thirty. 
The priests: sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three; 
sons of Immer, one thousand fifty-two; 
sons of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven; 
sons of Harim, one thousand and seventeen. 
The Levites: sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the sons of Hodaviah, seventy-four. 
The singers: sons of Asaph, one hundred twenty-eight. 
Sons of the gatekeepers: sons of Shallum, sons of Ater, sons of Talmon, sons of Akkub, sons of Hatita, sons of Shobai, the whole are one hundred thirty-nine. 
The Nethinim: sons of Ziha, sons of Hasupha, sons of Tabbaoth, 
sons of Keros, sons of Siaha, sons of Padon, 
sons of Lebanah, sons of Hagabah, sons of Akkub, 
sons of Hagab, sons of Shalmai, sons of Hanan, 
sons of Giddel, sons of Gahar, sons of Reaiah, 
sons of Rezin, sons of Nekoda, sons of Gazzam, 
sons of Uzza, sons of Paseah, sons of Besai, 
sons of Asnah, sons of Mehunim, sons of Nephusim, 
sons of Bakbuk, sons of Hakupha, sons of Harhur, 
sons of Bazluth, sons of Mehida, sons of Harsha, 
sons of Barkos, sons of Sisera, sons of Thamah, 
sons of Neziah, sons of Hatipha. 
Sons of the servants of Solomon: sons of Sotai, sons of Sophereth, sons of Peruda, 
sons of Jaalah, sons of Darkon, sons of Giddel, 
sons of Shephatiah, sons of Hattil, sons of Pochereth of Zebaim, sons of Ami. 
All the Nethinim, and the sons of the servants of Solomon are three hundred ninety-two. 
And these are those going up from Tel-Melah, Tel-Harsa, Cherub, Addan, Immer, and they have not been able to declare the house of their fathers, and their seed, whether they are of Israel: 
sons of Delaiah, sons of Tobiah, sons of Nekoda, six hundred fifty-two. 
And of the sons of the priests: sons of Habaiah, sons of Koz, sons of Barzillai (who took a wife from the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and is called by their name); 
these have sought their register among those reckoning themselves by genealogy, and they have not been found, and they are redeemed from the priesthood, 
and the Tirshatha says to them that they do not eat of the most holy things until the standing up of a priest with the Lights and with the Perfections. 
All the assembly together is forty-two thousand three hundred sixty, 
apart from their servants and their handmaids; these are seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven: and of them are two hundred male and female singers. 
Their horses are seven hundred thirty-six, their mules, two hundred forty-five, 
their camels, four hundred thirty-five, donkeys, six thousand seven hundred and twenty. 
And some of the heads of the fathers in their coming to the house of YHWH that is in Jerusalem, have offered willingly for the house of God, to establish it on its base; 
according to their power they have given to the treasure of the work; of gold, sixty-one thousand drams, and of silver, five thousand pounds, and of priests’ coats, one hundred. 
And the priests dwell, and the Levites, and of the people, and the singers, and the gatekeepers, and the Nethinim, in their cities; even all Israel in their cities. 
