2 Chronicles.
Chapter 22.
And the inhabitants of Jerusalem cause his youngest son Ahaziah to reign in his stead (for the troop had slain all the chiefly that came in with the Arabians to the camp), and Ahaziah son of Jehoram, king of Judah, reigns. 
Ahaziah is a son of twenty-two years in his reigning, and he has reigned one year in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother is Athaliah daughter of Omri; 
he has also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother has been his counselor to do wickedly. 
And he does evil in the eyes of YHWH, like the house of Ahab, for they have been his counselors, after the death of his father, for destruction to him. 
Also, he has walked in their counsel, and goes with Jehoram son of Ahab, king of Israel, to battle against Hazael king of Aram in Ramoth-Gilead, and they of Ramah strike Joram; 
and he turns back to be healed in Jezreel because of the wounds with which they had struck him in Ramah, in his fighting with Hazael king of Aram. And Azariah son of Jehoram, king of Judah, has gone down to see Jehoram son of Ahab in Jezreel, for he is sick; 
and to come to Joram has been from God for the destruction of Ahaziah; and in his coming he has gone out with Jehoram to Jehu son of Nimshi, whom YHWH anointed to cut off the house of Ahab. 
And it comes to pass, in Jehu’s executing judgment with the house of Ahab, that he finds the heads of Judah and sons of the brothers of Ahaziah, ministers of Ahaziah, and slays them. 
And he seeks Ahaziah, and they capture him (and he is hiding himself in Samaria), and bring him to Jehu, and put him to death, and bury him, for they said, “He is son of Jehoshaphat, who sought YHWH with all his heart”; and there is none of the house of Ahaziah to retain power for the kingdom. 
And Athaliah mother of Ahaziah has seen that her son is dead, and she rises and destroys the whole seed of the kingdom of the house of Judah. 
And Jehoshabeath daughter of the king takes Joash son of Ahaziah, and steals him from the midst of the sons of the king who are put to death, and puts him and his nurse into the inner part of the bed-chambers, and Jehoshabeath daughter of King Jehoram, wife of Jehoiada the priest, because she has been sister of Ahaziah, hides him from the face of Athaliah, and she has not put him to death. 
And he is with them in the house of God hiding himself for six years, and Athaliah is reigning over the land. 
