Colossians.
Chapter 4.
The masters: give that which is righteous and equal to the servants, having known that you also have a Master in the heavens. 
Continue in the prayer, watching in it in thanksgiving, 
also praying for us at the same time, that God may open to us a door for the word, to speak the secret of the Christ, because of which I have also been bound, 
that I may reveal it, as it is necessary for me to speak. 
Walk in wisdom toward those outside, redeeming the time, 
your word always being seasoned with salt in grace—to know how it is necessary for you to answer each one. 
Tychicus will make known to you all the things concerning me—the beloved brother, and faithful servant, and fellow-servant in the LORD— 
whom I sent to you for this very thing, that he might know the things concerning you, and might comfort your hearts, 
with Onesimus the faithful and beloved brother, who is of you; they will make known to you all things that are here. 
Aristarchus greets you, my fellow-captive, and Marcus, the nephew of Barnabas (concerning whom you received commands—if he may come to you, receive him), 
and Jesus who is called Justus, who are of circumcision: these are the only fellow-workers for the Kingdom of God who become a comfort to me. 
Epaphras greets you, who is of you, a servant of Christ, always striving for you in the prayers, that you may stand perfect and made full in all the will of God, 
for I testify to him that he has much zeal for you, and those in Laodicea, and those in Hierapolis. 
Lucas greets you, the beloved physician, and Demas; 
those in Laodicea greet you—brothers, and Nymphas, and the assembly in his house; 
and when the letter may be read with you, cause that it may also be read in the assembly of the Laodiceans, and the letter from Laodicea that you also may read; 
and say to Archippus, “See to the ministry that you received in the LORD, that you may fulfill it.” 
The salutation is by my hand, Paul. Remember my bonds. The grace is with you! Amen.
