Leviticus.
Chapter 6.
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“When any person sins, and has committed a trespass against YHWH, and has lied to his fellow concerning a deposit, or concerning fellowship, or concerning violent robbery, or has oppressed his fellow; 
or has found a lost thing, and has lied concerning it, and has sworn to a falsehood, concerning one of all these which man does, sinning in them: 
then it has been, when he sins and has been guilty, that he has returned the plunder which he has violently taken away, or the thing which he has gotten by oppression, or the deposit which has been deposited with him, or the lost thing which he has found; 
or all that concerning which he swears falsely, he has even repaid it in its principal, and he is adding to it its fifth; he gives it to him whose it is in the day of his guilt-offering. 
And he brings his guilt-offering to YHWH, a ram, a perfect one, out of the flock, at your valuation, for a guilt-offering, to the priest, 
and the priest has made atonement for him before YHWH, and it has been forgiven him, concerning one thing of all that he does, by being guilty therein.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is a law of the burnt-offering: the burnt-offering on the burning pile remains on the altar all the night until the morning, and the fire of the altar is burning on it. 
And the priest has put on his long robe of fine linen, and he puts his fine linen trousers on his flesh, and has lifted up the ashes which the fire consumes with the burnt-offering on the altar, and has put them near the altar; 
and he has stripped off his garments, and has put on other garments, and has brought out the ashes to the outside of the camp, to a clean place. 
And the fire on the altar is burning on it, it is not quenched, and the priest has burned wood on it morning by morning, and has arranged the burnt-offering on it, and has made incense on it with the fat of the peace-offerings; 
fire is continually burning on the altar, it is not quenched. 
And this is a law of the present: sons of Aaron have brought it near before YHWH to the front of the altar, 
and one has lifted up of it with his hand from the flour of the present, and from its oil, and all the frankincense which is on the present, and has made incense on the altar of refreshing fragrance—its memorial to YHWH. 
And Aaron and his sons eat the remnant of it; it is eaten with unleavened things in a holy place—they eat it in the court of the Tent of Meeting. 
It is not baked with anything fermented; I have given it for their portion out of My fire-offerings; it is most holy, like the sin-offering, and like the guilt-offering. 
Every male among the sons of Aaron eats it—a continuous statute throughout your generations, out of the fire-offerings of YHWH. All that comes against them is holy.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“This is an offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they bring near to YHWH in the day of his being anointed: a tenth of the ephah of flour for a continual present, half of it in the morning, and half of it in the evening; 
it is made on a griddle with oil—you bring it in stirred; you bring baked pieces of the present near for a refreshing fragrance to YHWH. 
And the priest who is anointed in his stead, from among his sons, makes it; it is a continuous statute of YHWH; it is completely burned as incense; 
and every present of a priest is a whole burnt-offering; it is not eaten.” 
And YHWH speaks to Moses, saying, 
“Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is a law of the sin-offering: in the place where the burnt-offering is slaughtered, the sin-offering is slaughtered before YHWH; it is most holy. 
The priest who is making atonement with it eats it; it is eaten in a holy place, in the court of the Tent of Meeting; 
all that comes against its flesh is holy, and when any of its blood is sprinkled on the garment, that on which it is sprinkled you wash in the holy place; 
and an earthen vessel in which it is boiled is broken, and if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, then it is scoured and rinsed with water. 
Every male among the priests eats it—it is most holy; 
and no sin-offering, any of whose blood is brought into the Tent of Meeting to make atonement in the holy place, is eaten; it is burned with fire.” 
