Genesis.
Chapter 17.
And Abram is a son of ninety-nine years, and YHWH appears to Abram, and says to him, “I am God Almighty, habitually walk before Me, and be perfect; 
and I give My covenant between Me and you, and multiply you very exceedingly.” 
And Abram falls on his face, and God speaks with him, saying, 
“I—behold, My covenant is with you, and you have become father of a multitude of nations; 
and your name is no longer called Abram, but your name has been Abraham, for father of a multitude of nations have I made you; 
and I have made you exceedingly fruitful, and made you become nations, and kings go out from you. 
And I have established My covenant between Me and you, and your seed after you, throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant, to become God to you, and to your seed after you; 
and I have given to you, and to your seed after you, the land of your sojournings, the whole land of Canaan, for a continuous possession, and I have become their God.” 
And God says to Abraham, “And you keep My covenant, you and your seed after you, throughout their generations; 
this is My covenant which you keep between Me and you, and your seed after you: every male of you is to be circumcised; 
and you have circumcised the flesh of your foreskin, and it has become a token of a covenant between Me and you. 
And a son of eight days is circumcised by you; every male throughout your generations, born in the house, or bought with money from any son of a stranger, who is not of your seed; 
he is certainly circumcised who is born in your house, or bought with your money; and My covenant has become in your flesh a perpetual covenant; 
and an uncircumcised one, a male, the flesh of whose foreskin is not circumcised, indeed, that person has been cut off from his people; My covenant he has broken.” 
And God says to Abraham, “Sarai your wife—you do not call her name Sarai, for Sarah is her name; 
and I have blessed her, and have also given to you a son from her; and I have blessed her, and she has become nations—kings of peoples are from her.” 
And Abraham falls on his face, and laughs, and says in his heart, “Is one born to the son of one hundred years? Or does Sarah—daughter of ninety years—bear?” 
And Abraham says to God, “O that Ishmael may live before You”; 
and God says, “Your wife Sarah is certainly bearing a son to you, and you have called his name Isaac, and I have established My covenant with him, for a perpetual covenant, to his seed after him. 
As for Ishmael, I have heard you; behold, I have blessed him, and made him fruitful, and multiplied him, very exceedingly; twelve princes does he beget, and I have made him become a great nation; 
and My covenant I establish with Isaac, whom Sarah does bear to you at this appointed time in the next year”; 
and He finishes speaking with him, and God goes up from Abraham. 
And Abraham takes his son Ishmael, and all those born in his house, and all those bought with his money—every male among the men of Abraham’s house and circumcises the flesh of their foreskin, in this very same day, as God has spoken with him. 
And Abraham is a son of ninety-nine years in the flesh of his foreskin being circumcised; 
and his son Ishmael is a son of thirteen years in the flesh of his foreskin being circumcised; 
in this very same day Abraham has been circumcised, and his son Ishmael; 
and all the men of his house—born in the house, and bought with money from the son of a stranger—have been circumcised with him. 
