DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 34.
Then Moses climbed up from the plains in the Moab region to the top of Pisgah Peak on Nebo Mountain, across the Jordan River from Jericho. There Yahweh showed him all the land that the Israelis would occupy. He showed him the Gilead region as far north as Dan city; 
all the land that the tribe of Naphtali would occupy; all the land that the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh had occupied; all the land that the tribe of Judah would occupy as far west as the Mediterranean sea; 
the desert area in the south part of Judah; and the Jordan Valley that extends from Jericho in the north to Zoar city in the south. 
Then Yahweh said to him, “You have now seen this land that I solemnly promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying ‘I will give it to your descendants.’ I have allowed you to see it from a distance, but you will not go there.” 
So Moses, who always served Yahweh faithfully, died there on that mountain in the Moab region, which is what Yahweh said would happen. 
Yahweh buried Moses’ body in a valley in the Moab region, opposite/near Beth-Peor town, but no one to this day knows where Yahweh buried him. 
Moses was 120 years old when he died, but he was still very strong, and he could still see MTY very well. 
The Israeli people mourned for him in the plains of the Moab region for 30 days. 
God caused Joshua to be very wise, because Moses had put his hands on Joshua to appoint him to be their new leader. The Israeli people obeyed Joshua, and they obeyed all the commands that Yahweh had given to Moses to tell to the Israeli people. 
Since the time that Moses lived, there has never been a prophet in Israel like him. Yahweh spoke to him face-to-face/directly. 
No other prophet has performed all the kinds of DOU miracles that Yahweh sent Moses to perform in front of the king of Egypt, his officials, and all HYP the people of Egypt. 
No other prophet has been able to do all the great and terrifying things that Moses did while all the Israelis watched. 
