1 CHRONICLES.
Chapter 4.
The descendants of Judah were Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, and Shobal. 
Shobal’s son was Reaiah. Reaiah was the father of Jahath, and Jahath was the father of Ahumai and Lahad. They were the ancestors of the Zorath people-group. 
The oldest son of Caleb and his wife Ephrathah was Hur. Hur was the one who started/founded Bethlehem town. His three sons were Etam, Penuel, and Ezer. Etam’s sons were Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash. Their sister was Hazzelelponi. Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer was the father of Hushah. 
Hezron’s son Ashhur, the father of Tekoa, had two wives whose names were Helah and Naarah. 
The sons of Asshur and his wife Naarah were Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. 
The sons of Ashhur and his wife Helah were Zereth, Zohar, Ethnan, 
and Koz. Koz was the father of Anub, Hazzobebah, and the ancestor of the clans descended from Aharhel. Aharhel was the son of Harum. 
There was another descendant of Judah whose name was Jabez. He was more respected than his brothers were. His mother named him Jabez which means ‘pain’ because she said, “I was enduring much pain when I gave birth to him.” 
One day he prayed to God whom his fellow Israelis worshiped, saying, “Please greatly bless me and ◄enlarge my land/give me a lot of land/property►. Remain IDM with me, and do not allow anyone to harm me. If you do that for me, I will not have any pain.” And God did what Jabez requested him to do. 
Another descendant of Judah was Shuhah. His younger brother Kelub was the father of Mehir. Mehir was the father of Eshton. 
Eshton was the father of Beth-Rapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah. Tehinnah founded Nahash town, but their families lived in Recah town. 
Another descendant of Judah was Jephunneh. His son was Caleb. Caleb’s sons were Iru, Elah, and Naam. Elah’s son was Kenaz. The sons of Kenaz were Othniel and Seraiah. Othniel’s sons were Hathath and Meonothai. Meonothai was the father of Ophrah. Seraiah was the father of Joab. Joab was the ancestor of the people who lived in Craftsmen’s Valley. The valley was named that because many of the people who lived there were ◄craftsmen/men who were experts in making things►. 
Another descendant of Judah was Jehallelel. His sons were Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel. 
Another descendant of Judah was Ezrzh. Ezrah’s sons were Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. Mered married Bithiah, who was the daughter of the king of Egypt. The children of Mered and Bithiah were Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah. Ishbah was the father of Eshtemoa. Ezrah also had a wife from Judah. She gave birth to Jered, Heber, and Jekuthiel. Jered was the father of (OR, founded the town of) Gedor, Heber was the father of (OR, founded the town of) Soco, and Jekuthiel was the father of (OR, founded the town of) Zanoah. 
Hodiah’s wife, who was Naham’s sister, bore two sons. One of them was the father of Keilah, the ancestor of the Gar people-group, and the other one was the father of Eshtemoa, the ancestor of the Maacath people-group. 
Another descendant of Judah was Shimon. Shimon’s sons were Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-Hanan, and Tilon. Another descendant of Judah was Ishi. His descendants were Zoheth and Ben-Zoheth. 
One of Judah’s sons was Shelah. Shelah’s sons were Er the father of Lecah, Laadah the father of Mareshah, the families of those who made things from linen at Beth-Ashbea, 
Jokim, and the men of Cozeba town, and Joash and Saraph, two men who married women from the Moab region and later lived in Bethlehem (OR, and ruled in Jashubi-Lehem). All their names and a record of what they did are written in very old scrolls. 
They made pottery for the king; some of them lived in Netaim town and some of them lived in Gederah town. 
Simeon’s sons were Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, and Shaul. 
Shaul’s son was Shallum. Shallum’s son was Mibsam. Mibsam’s son was Mishma. 
Mishma’s son was Hammuel. Hammuel’s son was Zaccur. Zaccur’s son was Shimei. 
Shimei had 16 sons and six daughters, but none of his brothers had many children. So the descendants of Simeon never were as many as the descendants of his younger brother Judah. 
The descendants of Simeon lived in these cities and towns: Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar-Shual, 
Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad, 
Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag, 
Beth-Marcaboth, Hazar-Susim, Beth-Biri, and Shaaraim. They lived in those places until David became king. 
They also lived in villages near those towns: Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Token, and Ashan. 
There were other villages where they lived, as far southwest as Baalath town. Those were the places where they lived, and their names, according to the family records. 
The men in the following list were the leaders of their clans: Meshobab, Jamlech, Joshah the son of Amaziah, Joel, and Jehu the son of Joshibiah. Joshibiah was the son of Seraiah and the grandson of Asiel. Other clan leaders were Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah, and Ziza. Ziza was the son of Shiphi and the grandson of Allon, who was the son of Jedaiah, who was the son of Shimri, who was the son of Shemaiah. Those families became very large/numerous. 
They went outside of Gedor town on the east side of the valley to look for pastureland for their flocks of sheep. 
They found good pastureland with plenty of grass. The place was peaceful and quiet. Previously the descendants of Noah’s son Ham had lived there. 
But while Hezekiah was the king of Judah, the leaders of the tribe of Simeon came to Gedor and fought against the descendants of Ham and destroyed their tents. They also fought against the descendants of Meun who were living there, and they killed all of them. So now there are no descendants of Meun living there. The descendants of Simeon started to live there, because there was good pastureland there for their sheep. 
Ishi’s four sons Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah and Uzziel led 500 other descendants of Simeon and attacked the people who were living in the hilly area of the Edom region. 
They killed the few descendants of Amalek who were still alive. From that time until now, the descendants of Simeon have lived in the Edom region. 
