PROVERBS.
Chapter 7.
My son, heed my advice, and guard my instructions as you would MET guard a treasure. 
Obey my commands, and as a result you will live a good life. Consider the things that I teach you to be very precious; guard them, just like you protect your eyes. 
Tie my commands around your fingers in order that they will remind you to obey them. Always keep them in mind MET. 
Love wisdom like you love your sister. Understand what is wise, and let that be as dear to you as members of your family. 
If you are wise and if you understand what is wise PRS, you will not sleep with an immoral woman; you will not listen to a woman who tries to entice you to sleep with her by what she says. 
One day, I was standing at the window inside my house, and I looked outside. 
I saw some young men who did not have good sense. Among them was a man who was very foolish. 
He crossed the street near the house of an immoral woman. He was walking along the path toward her house 
at twilight, when it was getting dark DOU. 
Suddenly the woman came out to see/meet him. She was dressed ◄seductively/like a prostitute►, wanting to persuade him to sleep with her. 
She was a loud talker, one who was rebellious; she SYN never stayed at home. 
She often went into the city streets and plazas/markets, waiting to trap some man. 
When she saw that young man, she put her arms around him and kissed him. Then without being a bit ashamed, she said, 
“I have some meat that is left over from a sacrifice that I made today to maintain fellowship with Yahweh; I have fulfilled/done what I promised him that I would do. 
And now I have come out to meet/see you. I was searching for you, and now I have found you! 
I have put on my bed sheets/bedspreads that were made from very fine linen that were imported {people brought} from Egypt. 
I have sprinkled sweet-smelling perfumes on my bed— myrrh and aloes and cinnamon. 
Come with me; let us enjoy having sex until tomorrow morning. Let’s enjoy making love. 
My husband is not at home; he has gone away on a long journey. 
He is carrying a wallet filled with money, and he will not return until the middle of this month.” 
So she persuaded him by her enticing/tempting words. She allured him by her smooth/sweet talk. 
And he went with her immediately, like an ox that was going to where it would be slaughtered, or like a deer (OR, a fool) that is stepping into a noose/trap, 
where it will remain/stay until someone shoots an arrow into its liver and kills it. He was like a bird that flew into a trap. He did not know that ◄it would cost him his life/he would die as a result►. 
My son, listen to what I say; pay careful attention to my words. 
Do not allow anything to arouse/persuade you to go with an immoral woman like that. Do not go where she goes. 
She has caused many men to be ruined; truly, no one can count the men she has killed. 
The road to her house is the road to the grave. Those who enter her bedroom PRS will die as a result. 
