JOB.
Chapter 21.
Then Job replied, 
“Listen to what I say, all three of you; that is the only thing that you can do that will comfort me. 
Be patient with me, and allow me to speak. Then, after I am finished speaking, you can continue to make fun of me. 
“It is certainly not RHQ people against whom I am complaining, but God And it is certainly RHQ right for me to be impatient! 
Look at me! Does what you see not cause you to be appalled and to put your hands over your mouths and say no more? 
When I think about what has happened to me, I am frightened and my entire body shakes. 
“But let me ask this: ‘Why do wicked people continue to live, and become prosperous, and not die until they are very old?’ 
They have their children around them, and they watch them while they grow up and start to live in their own houses, and they enjoy their grandchildren. 
Wicked people live in their own houses without being afraid, and God does not punish MTY them. 
Their bulls always mate with the cows successfully, and the cows give birth to calves and never miscarry. 
Wicked people send their young children outside to play, and the children play happily like SIM lambs in a pasture. 
Some children dance and sing, while others shake tambourines and play lyres, and they are happy when they hear people playing flutes. 
Wicked people enjoy having good things all the time that they are alive, and they die quietly/peacefully and go down to the place of the dead. 
While they are alive, they say to God, ‘Do not bother us; we do not want to know how you want us to conduct our lives! 
Why do you, Almighty God, think that we should serve you? ◄What advantage do we get if we pray to you?/It is useless for us to pray to you.► RHQ’ 
Think about it: Wicked people think that it is because of what they have done that they have become prosperous, but I do not understand why they think like that. 
◄“How often does it happen that wicked people die MET before they are old?/Very seldom do wicked people die MET before they are old.► RHQ ◄Do they ever experience disasters?/They seldom experience disasters.► RHQ ◄Does God ever punish them because of being very angry with them?/God never punishes them because of being very angry with them.► RHQ 
He does not blow them away like wind blows away straw; they are never carried off by a whirlwind. 
You say, ‘When people have committed sins, God waits and punishes their children because of those sins;’ but I say that God should punish those who sin, not their children, in order that the sinners will know that it is because of their own sins that they are being punished. 
I hope/wish that wicked people will experience themselves being destroyed, that they will experience being punished by an angry Almighty God. 
After wicked people are dead, they are not at all concerned RHQ about what happens to their families MTY. 
“Since God judges everyone, even those that are in heaven, ◄who can teach God anything?/certainly no one can teach God anything.► RHQ 
Some people die while they are very healthy, while they are peaceful, when they are not afraid of anything. 
Their bodies are fat; their bones are strong. 
Other people die being very miserable; they have never experienced good things happening to them. 
But both rich and poor people die and are buried, and maggots eat their bodies. Everyone dies, so it is clear that dying is not always the punishment for being wicked. 
“Listen, I know what you three are thinking. I know the evil things that you plan to do to me. 
You say, ‘What happened to the tents in which wicked people were living? The houses of evil rulers have been destroyed!’ 
But have you never inquired of people who travel much? Do you not believe their reports about what they have seen, 
that wicked people usually do not suffer at the time when there are great disasters; that wicked people are the ones who are rescued when God is angry and punishes people MTY? 
There is no one RHQ who accuses wicked people, and there is no one who ◄pays them back/gives them the punishment that they deserve► for all the evil things that they have done. 
The corpses of wicked people are carried to their graves, and people are put there to guard those graves. 
A huge number HYP of people go to the grave site. Some go in front of the procession and some come behind. And the clods of dirt thrown on the graves of those wicked people who have died are like a nice blanket. 
“So how can you console me by talking nonsense? Every reply that you make is full of lies!” 
