LEVITICUS.
Chapter 20.
Yahweh also said this to Moses/me: 
“Tell the Israeli people, ‘This is what Yahweh says: Any Israeli or any foreigner who is living in Israel who sacrifices any of his children to be an offering to the god Molech must be executed. The people of the town must kill him by throwing stones at him. 
I will reject IDM such people and command that they no longer be allowed to associate with my people. 
If the people of that man’s town ignore it when he kills one of his children to offer him as a sacrifice to Molech, and if they do not execute that person, 
I myself will punish that person and his family, and I will command that he no longer be able to associate with my people. And I will do the same thing to any others who do the same thing that he did to worship Molech. 
‘ will reject IDM those who go to those who ◄consult/talk with► the spirits of dead people and fortune-tellers to seek advice from them. I will command that they no longer be allowed to associate with my people. 
‘et yourselves apart and be holy, because I, Yahweh your God, am holy, and I want you to be like me. 
Obey carefully DOU all my laws. I am Yahweh, the one will cause you to be holy. 
‘f anyone curses his father or his mother, he must be executed. He himself will be responsible for his own death MTY. 
‘f a man commits adultery with some other man’s wife, both of them, the man and the woman, must be executed. 
‘f a man has sex with EUP one of his father’s wives, he has disgraced his father. So both that man and that woman must be executed, they will be responsible for their own deaths MTY. 
‘f a man has sex with EUP his daughter-in-law, both of them must be executed. What they have done is very perverse; and they will be responsible for their own deaths MTY. 
‘f two men have sex together, they have done something detestable. They must both be executed, they will be responsible for their own deaths MTY. 
‘f a man marries both a woman and her mother, that is a wicked thing. All three of them must be burned to death, in order that such a wicked practice will not continue to be done among you. 
‘f a man has sex with an animal, he must be executed, and you must also kill that animal. 
‘Similarly, if a woman has sex with an animal, both the woman and that animal must be killed DOU; they are responsible for their own deaths MTY. 
‘f a man marries his sister, the daughter of either his mother or his father, and they have sex together, that is disgraceful. They must not be allowed to continue to associate with my people. And because he has disgraced his sister, he must be punished. 
‘f a man has sex with EUP, DOU a woman during her monthly menstrual period, they have both revealed why she was bleeding, so both of them must not be allowed to associate with my people anymore. 
‘o not have sex with the sister of either your father or your mother, because that would be disgracing someone who is a close relative. And you and the woman must both be punished. 
‘f a man has sex EUP with his aunt, he has dishonored his uncle. I will punish both of them by causing them to die without having any children. 
‘f a man marries his brother’s wife while his brother is still living, that is disgraceful. He has dishonored his brother; and they both will die without having any children. 
‘bey all my laws/decrees DOU carefully, in order that you will not be forced to leave MET the land to which I am bringing you. 
Do not imitate/adopt the customs of the people of the land from which I will expel them as you advance. I hated them because they did all those things. 
But I said to you, “You will take their land from them; I will give it to you to be yours, a land that is very fertile IDM. I am Yahweh your God, who has set you apart from the people of other nations.” 
‘o you must distinguish between birds and animals that are unacceptable to me and those that are acceptable to me. Do not defile yourselves by eating birds or animals, or anything that scurries across the ground, that I have said are unacceptable for you. 
You must behave in ways that I consider to be holy, because I, Yahweh, am holy, and I have set you apart from the ungodly people of other nations to belong to me. 
‘ou must execute any man or woman among you who ◄consults/talks with► the spirits of dead people or who is a fortune-teller. Kill them by throwing stones at them; but they will be responsible for their own deaths.’” 
