EXODUS.
Chapter 31.
Yahweh also said to Moses/me, “Note that I have chosen Bezalel, the son of Uri and grandson of Hur, from the tribe of Judah, for special tasks. 
I have caused him to be completely controlled/empowered by my Spirit, and I have given him special ability to make things and have enabled him to know how to do very skilled work. 
He can engrave skillful designs in gold, silver, and bronze. 
He can cut ◄jewels/valuable stones► and enclose them in tiny gold settings/frames. He can carve things from wood and do other skilled work. 
Note that I have also appointed Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan, to work with him. I have also given special ability to other men, in order that they can make all the things that I have commanded you to be made. 
That includes the Sacred Tent, the sacred chest and its lid, all the other things that will be inside the Sacred Tent, 
the table and all the things that are used with it, the pure gold lampstand and all the things that are used to take care of it, the altar for burning incense, 
the altar for offering sacrifices that will be burned and all the things that will be used with it, the washbasin and its base, 
all the beautiful sacred clothes for Aaron and his sons to wear when they work as priests, 
the oil for anointing, and the sweet-smelling incense for the Holy Place. The skilled workers must make all these things exactly as I have told you to do.” 
Yahweh also said to Moses/me, 
“Tell the Israeli people, ‘Obey my instructions regarding the ◄rest days/Sabbath days►. Those days will remind you and your descendants, throughout all future generations, that I, Yahweh, have ◄set you apart/chosen you► to be my people. 
You must obey my rules about the Sabbath days because they are holy/sacred. Those who treat those days in an irreverent way by working on those days must be executed to show that I no longer consider them to belong to my people. 
You may work for six days each week, but the seventh day of each week is a solemn day of rest, dedicated to me, Yahweh. Anyone who does any work on a day of rest is to be executed because I no longer want them to be able to associate with my people. 
You Israeli people must respect the rest day, and you and your descendants must ◄celebrate it/keep it holy► throughout all future generations. It will remind you of the agreement that I have made with you that will last forever. 
It will remind you Israeli people and remind me of that agreement  because I, Yahweh, created the heavens and the earth in six days, and on the seventh day I stopped doing that work and relaxed.’” 
When Yahweh finished talking with Moses/me on the top of Sinai Mountain, he gave him/me the two stone slabs on which he had engraved his commandments with his own fingers. 
