PSALMS.
Chapter 17.
Yahweh, listen to me while I plead with you to act justly toward me. Hear me while I call out to you to help me. Pay attention to what I say while I pray because I am speaking MTY honestly/truthfully. 
You are the one who is able to declare that I ◄am innocent/have not done anything that was wrong► because you see/know that I am telling the truth. 
You know what I think, even at night; you have examined what I say and do, and you know that I have determined to never tell any lies. 
I have not done like others do; I have always done what is right IDM, and I have not acted cruelly toward others. 
I have always done what you told me to do IDM, I have ◄never failed to do/always done► LIT those things. 
O God, I pray to you because you answer me; please listen MTY to what I am saying. 
Show me that you faithfully love me. By your great power MTY rescue those who ◄run to/trust in► you to protect them from their enemies. 
Protect me as people carefully protect their own eyes; protect me like birds protect their babies under their wings MET. 
Do not allow wicked people to attack me; my enemies surround me, wanting to kill me. 
They never pity IDM anyone, and they are always boasting. 
They have hunted/searched for me and found me. They surround me, watching for an opportunity to throw me to the ground. 
They are like lions SIM that are ready to tear apart the animals that they capture; they are like young lions that are hiding, waiting to pounce on their prey. 
Yahweh, come and ◄oppose/fight against► my enemies and defeat them! Use your sword to save me from those wicked people! 
Yahweh, by your power MTY rescue me from those people who are interested only in things here in this world. But you provide plenty of food for those whom you love dearly; their children also have many things that their grandchildren will inherit. 
Yahweh, because I act righteously, I will some day see you SYN. When I awake, I will see you face-to-face, and then I will be happy. 
