EZEKIEL.
Chapter 13.
Yahweh gave me another message. He said, 
“You human, prophesya warning against the prophets in Israel who are prophesying. Some of them are prophesying things that they themselves have imagined/thought. Say to them: 'Listen to what Yahweh says! 
He says, “Terrible things will happen to those wicked prophets who proclaim their own ideas and have not seen anyvisions from me. 
You Israeli people, your prophets areas useless as SIM jackals/wolves that only dig through the ruinsof a city. 
Those prophets have not helped you Israeli people MTY to repair the places where thecity walls have ◄been broken/crumbled►. That needs to be done in order that the walls will be strong at the time when I, Yahweh, allow your enemies to attack you. 
The visions and prophecies of those prophets are false. They say, 'Yahweh told me this,' but I have not sent themto you to be my prophets. But they expect that what they prophesy will truly happen! 
They say that they have seen visions, but those visions are false, and the things that they prophesy are lies RHQ. They say, 'Yahweh told me this,' but I have told them nothing!” 
Therefore, this is what I, Yahweh the Lord, say: “Because you prophets have said what is false, and because your visions are lies, I am opposed to you. 
I will strike/punish all you prophets who falsely say that you have seen visions and prophesy things that are lies. You will not have any place among my people, your names will not be listed in the records of the Israeli people, and you will never return to Israel. Then you will know that I, Yahweh, have the power to do what I say that I will do.” 
They deceive my people, saying “Things will go well for us,” when things will not go well. It as though MET the people have built a shaky/weak wall, and the prophets cover it with ◄whitewash/white paint► to make people think that it is a very strong wall. 
So, tell those prophets who cover the wall with whitewash that the wall will surely fall down. It will rain very hard. I will send big hailstones to fall. Very strong winds will blow against it. 
When the wall falls down, the people will certainly say to those prophets, “The white paint certainly did not RHQ make the wall strong!” 
So this is what I, Yahweh the Lord, say: “Because I am very angry with you, I will send enemy armies to destroy Jerusalem. It will be as though MET I will send a very strong wind and hailstones and very heavy rains to destroy you.” 
The false prophecies of your prophets are like MET a wall that they have covered with whitewash, but I will break it down, and shatter it down to the ground, with the result that people can see its foundations. When the wall collapses, you also will be killed, and everyone will know that I, Yahweh, have the power to do what I say that I will do. 
In that way I will show that I am very angry withthe people who built the wall and those who covered it with ◄whitewash/white paint►. Then I will say to you, “The wall is destroyed/gone, and those prophets who put ◄whitewash/white paint► on it have been killed.” 
Those are the prophets who prophesied that things would go well for the people in Jerusalem, when things would not go well for them. 
So, you human, show that you are angry with IDM the women of Jerusalem who prophesy things that they themselves have imagined. 
Tell them, “This is what Yahweh the Lord says: Terrible things will happen to you women who fasten magic charms on your wrists and make veils of various sizes to put on your heads in order to deceive the people. You think that RHQ you will deceive othersby telling them that you know what will happen in the future, and that you will save your own lives. 
You dishonored meby telling lies in order to get from my people a few handfuls of barley and a few pieces of bread. My people listen to lies; and you women who are lying to them have caused to be killed people who did not deserve to die and have ◄spared/allowed to remain alive► those who should not continue to live.” 
Therefore, this is what I, Yahweh the Lord, sayto those women: “I detest your magic charms by which you deceive people like SIM people trap birds. I will tear those charms off your wrists, and I will cause the people whom you have deceived to no longer be deceived by you. 
I will also tear off your veils and rescue my people from continuing to be deceived by you, and they will no longer be under your control. Then you will know that I, Yahweh, have the power to do what I say that I will do. 
You have discouraged righteous people by telling them lies when I did not do things to cause them to be sad. And you have encouraged wicked people to not turn away from their wicked behavior; if they had done that, they would have continued to remain alive. 
Therefore, you will no longer falsely say that you have seen visions or tell people what will happen in the future in order to please them. I will rescue my people from being deceived by you. And then you will know that I, Yahweh, have the power to do what I say that I will do.” ' ” 
