DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 11.
“Because of all that Yahweh your God has done for you, you must love him and continually obey all his rules and regulations and commandments. 
It was you and your ancestors, not your children, whom he disciplined by causing all of you to have/experience difficulties. So, starting today, continue to think about how very great and very powerful he is DOU, MTY. 
Think about the various miracles DOU that he performed in Egypt. Think about what he did to the king of Egypt and to hiis country. 
Think about what he did to the army of Egypt, to their horses and their chariots. Think about how he caused the Red Sea to flood/cover over them while they were pursuing your ancestors, and how the army of Egypt was completely ◄wiped out/destroyed►. 
Think about what Yahweh did for your ancestors in the desert before you arrived at this place. 
Think about what he did to Dathan and Abiram, the two sons of Eliab from the tribe of Reuben. While all of your ancestors were watching, the earth split open, and they fell into the opening and disappeared, along with their families and their tents, their servants, and their animals. 
You SYN and your ancestors have seen all these miracles that Yahweh performed. 
So, obey all the commandments that I am giving you today, in order that you will be strong and able to cross the river and occupy the land that you are about to enter, 
and in order that you will live for a long time in that land, the land that Yahweh solemnly promised your ancestors that he would give to them and to their descendants, a land that is very fertile IDM. 
The land that you are about to enter and occupy is not like the land of Egypt, where your ancestors lived. In Egypt, after they planted seeds, it was necessary for them to work hard MTY to water the plants that grew. 
But the land that you are about to enter is a land where there are many hills and valleys, where there is plenty of rain. 
Yahweh takes care of that land. He SYN watches over it every day, from the beginning of each year to the end of each year. 
Today I am commanding you to love Yahweh our God and to serve him with your entire inner beings. If you do that, 
each year he will send rain on your land at the ◄right times/times when it is needed►, ◄in the autumn/at the end of the dry season► and ◄in the spring/before the next dry season starts►. As a result, you will have grain and grapes to make wine and olives to make olive oil. 
And he will cause grass to grow in your fields for your livestock to eat. You will have all the food that you want. 
“ut I warn you, do not turn away from Yahweh our God and start to worship other gods, 
because if you do that, Yahweh will become very angry with you. He will prevent any rain from falling. As a result, the crops will not grow, and you will soon die from hunger in the good land that Yahweh is about to give to you. 
So, keep thinking IDM about these commands. Write them on tiny scrolls and fasten them to your arms/wrists, and write them on bands that you fasten to your foreheads to help you to remember them. 
Teach them to your children again and again. Talk about them all the time: When you are in your houses and when you are walking outside; talk about them when you are lying down at inght and when you are getting up in the morning. 
Write them on the doorposts and on the gates of your houses. 
Do that in order that you and your children will live for a long time in the land that Yahweh promised to our ancestors that he would give to them. That land will belong to you and your descendants as long as there is a sky above the earth. 
“aithfully continue to obey what I am commanding you to do—to love Yahweh our God, and to conduct your lives as he wants you to do, and to ◄be faithful to/have a close relationship with► him. 
If you do that, Yahweh will expel all the people-groups in that land as you advance, people-groups that are more numerous and more powerful than you are. 
All the ground in that land on which you walk will be yours. Your territory will extend from the desert in the south to the Lebanon Mountains in the north, and from the Euphrates River in the east to the Mediterranean Sea in the west. 
Yahweh our God will cause all the people in that land to be afraid of you, which is what he promised, with the result that no people-group will be able to stop you. 
“isten carefully: Today I am telling you that Yahweh will either bless you or he will curse you. 
If you obey the commandments of Yahweh our God that I am giving to you today, he will bless you. 
If you do not obey them, and if you turn away from him to worship other gods that you have never known about before, he will curse you. 
And when Yahweh brings you into the land that you are about to enter and occupy, some of you must stand on top of Gerizim Mountain and proclaim what will cause Yahweh to bless you, and the others must stand on top of Ebal Mountain and proclaim what will cause Yahweh to curse you.” 
(Those two mountains are RHQ west of the Jordan River, west of the Jordan Valley near the huge oak tree at Moreh village in the land where the Canaan people-group lives. They live close to the sacred trees near Gilgal.) 
“You will soon cross the Jordan River to occupy the land that Yahweh our God is giving to you. When you enter that land and start to live there, 
be sure to obey all the rules and regulations that I am giving to you today.” 
