PSALMS.
Chapter 119.
◄Yahweh is pleased with/Happy are► those about whom no one can say truthfully that they have done things that are wrong, those who always obey the laws of Yahweh. 
Yahweh is pleased with those who ◄obey his requirements/do what he has instructed them to do►, those who request him with their entire inner beings to help them to do that. 
They do not do things that are wrong; they behave like Yahweh wants them to. 
Yahweh, you have given us ◄your principles of behavior/all the things that you have declared that we should do►, and you told us to obey them carefully. 
I desire that I will faithfully/always obey all ◄your statutes/that you have said that we should do►. 
If I continually ◄heed/pay attention to► all ◄your commands/that you have commanded►, I will not be disgraced/ashamed. 
When I learn all of ◄your regulations/the rules that you have given to us►, I will praise you with a pure inner being IDM. 
I will obey all ◄your statutes/that you have decreed that we should do►; do not desert/abandon me! 
I know RHQ how a youth can ◄keep his life pure/avoid sinning►; it is by obeying what you have told us to do. 
I try to serve you with my entire inner being; do not allow me to ◄wander away from obeying/disobey► ◄your commands/what you have commanded►. 
I have ◄memorized/stored in my mind► many of ◄your words/what you have promised► in order that I will not sin against you. 
Yahweh, I praise you; teach me ◄your statutes/what you have declared►. 
I MTY tell others ◄the regulations/the rules that you have given to us►. 
I like to obey ◄your requirements/what you have instructed us to do►; I enjoy that more than being very rich. 
I will ◄study/think about► ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►, and I will pay attention to what you have showed me. 
I will be happy to obey ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►, and I will not forget your words. 
Do good things for me, who serve you, in order that I may continue to live and obey ◄your words/what you have told us to do► during all my life. 
Open my mind in order that I may know the wonderful things that are written in your laws. 
I am living here on the earth for only a short time; ◄do not prevent me from understanding/help me to understand► LIT ◄your commands/what you have commanded►. 
In my inner being I strongly desire to know ◄your regulations/the rules that you have given to us► all the time. 
You rebuke those who are proud; cursed are those who disobey ◄your commands/what you have commanded►. 
Do not allow them to continue to insult and scorn me; I request this because I have obeyed what you have instructed us to do. 
Rulers gather together and plan ways to harm me, but I will ◄meditate on/study► ◄your statutes/what you have decreed►. 
I am delighted with ◄your requirements/what you have instructed us to do►; it is as though they are my advisors. 
I think that I will soon die IDM; revive/heal me, as you have told me that you would. 
When I told you about my behavior, you answered me; teach me ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
Help me to understand ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►, and then I will ◄meditate on/think about► the wonderful things that you have done. 
I am very sad/sorrowful IDM, with the result that I have no strength; enable me to be strong again, like you promised me that you would do. 
Prevent me from doing what is wrong, and be kind to me by teaching me your laws. 
I have decided that I will faithfully/always obey you; I have ◄paid attention to/heeded► ◄your regulations/the rules that you have given to us►. 
Yahweh, I try to carefully hold fast to what you have instructed us to do; do not abandon me, with the result that I would become disgraced. 
I will eagerly obey IDM ◄your commands/what you have commanded►, because you have enabled me to understand more what you want me to do. 
Yahweh, teach me the meaning of ◄your statutes/the things that you have decreed that we should do►, and then I will obey them, every one of them. 
Help me to understand your laws in order that I may obey them with all my inner being. 
I am happy with ◄your commands/what you have commanded►, so ◄lead me along the paths/enable me to walk on the road► that you have chosen for me. 
Cause me to want to obey your rules and not to want to become rich. 
Do not allow me to look at things that are worthless, and allow me to continue to live, like you promised that you would do. 
Because I serve you, do what you promised to do for me, which is what you also promise to do for all those who revere you. 
People insult me; protect me from those insults, because I hate them. The ◄regulations/rules that you have given to us► are very good! 
I very much desire to obey ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►; because you are righteous, allow me to continue to live (OR, be good to me). 
Yahweh, show me that you faithfully love me, and rescue/save me, like you have said/promised that you would. 
After you do that, I will be able to reply to those who insult me, because I trust in ◄your word/what you have promised that you would do►. 
Always enable me to LIT speak your truth, because I have confidence in ◄your regulations/the rules that you have given us►. 
I will always obey your laws, forever. 
I will be free from ◄affliction/my enemies’ attacks►, because I have tried to obey ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►. 
I will tell to kings ◄your requirements/what you have instructed us to do►; and because I did not abandon you, those kings will not cause me to be ashamed. 
I am delighted to obey ◄your commands/what you have commanded►, and I love them. 
I respect/revere IDM ◄your commands/what you have commanded►, and I love them, and I will ◄meditate on/think about► ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
Do not forget what you said/promised to do for me, who serve you, because what you have said has caused me to confidently expect good things from you. 
When I have been suffering, you comforted me; you did what you promised me, and that PRS revived me. 
Proud people are always making fun of me, but I do not ◄turn away from/stop► obeying your laws. 
Yahweh, when I think about ◄your regulations/the rules► that you gave to us long ago, I am comforted/encouraged. 
When I see that wicked people have disregarded your laws, I become very angry. 
While I have been living here for a short time on the earth, I have written songs about ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
Yahweh, during the night I think about you MTY, and so I obey your laws. 
What I have always done is to obey ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►. 
Yahweh, you are the one whom I have chosen, and I promise to ◄obey your words/do what you have told us to do►. 
With all my inner being I plead with you to be good to me; be kind to me, like you promised/said that you would do. 
I have thought about my behavior, and I have decided to return to obeying ◄your requirements/what you have instructed us to do►. 
I hurry to obey ◄your commands/what you have commanded►; I do not delay at all. 
Wicked people have tried to seize me, like a hunter tries to catch an animal with a net MET, but I do not forget your laws. 
In the middle of the night I wake up, and I praise you for ◄your commands/the rules that you have given us to do►; they are fair/just. 
I am a friend of all those who revere you, those who obey ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►. 
Yahweh, you faithfully/always love people all over the earth; teach me ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
Yahweh, you have done good things for me, like you promised/said that you would do. 
Teach me to think carefully before I decide what to do, and teach me other things that I need to know, because I believe that it is good for us to obey ◄your commands/what you have commanded►. 
Before you afflicted/punished me, I did things that were wrong, but now I obey ◄your words/what you have told us to do►. 
You are very good, and what you do is good; teach me ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
Proud people have told many lies about me, but the truth is that with all my inner being I obey ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►. 
Those proud people ◄are stupid/do not understand your laws► IDM, but as for me, I am delighted with your laws. 
It was good for me that you afflicted/punished me, because the result was that I learned ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
The laws that you MTY gave/told to us are worth more to me than gold, more than thousands of pieces of gold and silver. 
You created me and formed my body (OR, kept me safe); help me to be wise in order that I may learn ◄your commands/what you have commanded►. 
Those who have an awesome respect for you will see what you have done for me, and they will rejoice, because they will see that I have trusted in ◄your words/what you told us►. 
Yahweh, I know that ◄your regulations/the rules that you have given to us► are right/fair and that you have afflicted/punished me because you faithfully do what you have promised. 
Cause me to be comforted/encouraged by knowing that you faithfully love me, like you said to me that you would do. 
Be merciful to me in order that I may continue to live, because I am delighted with your laws. 
Cause the proud people who falsely accuse me to be ashamed, but as for me, I will continue ◄meditating on/thinking about► ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►. 
Cause those who revere you to come back to me in order that they may (OR, specifically, those who) know ◄your requirements/what you have instructed us to do►. 
Enable me to perfectly obey ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do► in order that I may not be ashamed because of not doing that. 
I am very tired/exhausted while I wait for you to save me from my enemies; but I confidently expect that you will tell me what you will do. 
My eyes are tired from waiting a long time for you to do what you promised/said that you would do, and I ask, “When will you help/encourage me?” 
I have become as useless as MET a wineskin that is shriveled from hanging a long time in the smoke inside a house, but I have not forgotten ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
How long must I wait? When will you punish those who ◄persecute/cause trouble for► me? 
It is as though proud people have dug deep pits for me to fall into, people who do not obey your laws. 
All ◄your commands are/what you have commanded is► trustworthy; but people are ◄persecuting/causing trouble for► me by telling lies about me, so please help me! 
Those people have almost killed me, but I have not stopped obeying ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►. 
Because you faithfully love me, allow me to continue to live in order that I may continue to obey ◄your rules/what you have instructed us to do►. 
Yahweh, your words will last forever; they will last as long as heaven lasts. 
You will faithfully continue doing ◄for people who are not yet born/in every generation► what you have ◄promised/said that you would do►; you have put the earth in its place, and it remains firmly there. 
To this day, all things on the earth remain because you decided that they should remain; everything on the earth serves you. 
If I had not been delighted in obeying your laws, I would have died because of what I was suffering. 
I will never forget ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►, because as a result of my obeying them you have enabled me to continue to live. 
I belong to you; save/rescue me from my enemies, because I have tried to obey ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►. 
Wicked men are waiting to kill me, but I will think about what you have instructed us to do. 
I have learned that there is a limit/end for everything, but what you command ◄has no limits/never ends►. 
I love your laws very much. I ◄meditate on/think about► them all during the day. 
Because I know ◄your commands/what you have commanded►, and because I think about them all the time, I have become wiser than my enemies. 
I understand more than my teachers do, because I ◄meditate on/think about► ◄your requirements/what you have instructed us to do►. 
I understand more than many old people do, because I obey ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►. 
I have avoided all evil behavior in order that I may obey ◄your words/what you have told us to do►. 
I have not ◄turned away from/quit► obeying ◄your regulations/the rules that you have given to us►, because you have taught me while I have studied them. 
When I read your words, they are like MET sweet things that I taste/eat, yes, they are even sweeter than honey. 
Because I have learned ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►, I am able to understand many things; therefore, I hate all evil things that some people do. 
Your words are like MET a lamp to guide me; they are like a light MET to show me the path that I should walk on. 
I have solemnly promised, and I am solemnly promising it again, that I will always obey your ◄regulations/rules that you have given to us►, and they are all fair/just. 
Yahweh, I am suffering very much; cause me to be strong/healthy again, as you have promised to do. 
Yahweh, when I thank you while I pray, it is like MET a sacrifice to you; please accept it, and teach me your ◄regulations/rules that you have given to us►. 
My enemies are often trying to kill me IDM, but I do not forget your laws. 
Wicked people have tried to seize me like a hunter tries to catch an animal with a trap MET, but I have not disobeyed ◄your principles of behavior/what you declared that we should do►. 
◄Your requirements/What you have instructed us to do► are my possession forever; because of them PRS, I am joyful. 
I ◄have decided/am determined► IDM to obey ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do► until the day that I die MTY. 
I hate people who are only partly committed to you, but I love your laws. 
You are like a place where I can hide from my enemies, and you are like a shield MET behind which I am protected from them, and I trust in your promises. 
You evil people, stay away from me in order than I may obey ◄my God’s commands/what my God has commanded►! 
Enable me to be strong, as you promised/said that you would do, in order that I may continue to live. I am confidently expecting that you will restore me; ◄do not disappoint me/do not allow me to be disappointed►. 
Hold me up, in order that I will be safe and always ◄pay attention to/heed► ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
You reject all those who disobey ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►; but what they deceitfully plan to do will be ◄useless/in vain►. 
You get rid of all the wicked people on the earth like SIM people throw away trash; therefore I love what you have instructed us to do. 
I SYN tremble because I am afraid of you; I am afraid because you punish those who do not obey ◄your regulations/the rules that you have given to us►. 
But I have done what is right and fair/just; so do not allow people to oppress/mistreat me. 
Promise me that you will do good things for me and do not allow proud people to oppress me. 
My eyes are tired from waiting a long time for you to rescue me, for you to save me like you promised/said that you would. 
Do something for me to show that you faithfully love me, and teach me ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
I am one who serves you; enable me to understand what you want me to know in order that I will know ◄your requirements/what you have instructed us to do►. 
Yahweh, now is the time for you to punish people because they have disobeyed your laws. 
Truly, I love ◄your commands/what you have commanded► more than I love gold; I love them more than I love very pure gold. 
So I conduct my life by ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►, and I hate all the evil things that some people do. 
◄Your requirements are/All the things that you have instructed us to do are► wonderful, so I obey them with all my inner being. 
When someone explains ◄your words/what you have said►, it is as though they are lighting a light; what they say causes even people who have not learned your laws to be wise. 
I eagerly desire to know ◄your commands/what you have commanded►, like SIM a dog that pants with its mouth open wanting to be fed. 
Listen to me and act kindly to me, like you do to all those who love you MTY. 
Guide me as you promised/said that you would do and help me not to fall/sin; do not allow evil people to control what I do. 
Rescue/Save me from those who oppress me in order that I may obey ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►. 
Be kind to me and teach me ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
I cry very much because many people do not obey your laws. 
Yahweh, you are righteous and ◄your regulations/the rules that you have given to us► are just/fair. 
◄Your requirements/All the things that you have instructed us to do► are true and are all very right and fair. 
I am ◄furious/very angry► because my enemies disregard ◄your words/what you have told us to do►. 
◄Your promises are/All the things that you have said that you will do are► dependable and I love them. 
I am not important and people despise me, but I do not forget ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►. 
You are righteous and you will be righteous forever, and your laws will never be changed. 
I constantly have troubles/difficulties and I am worried, but ◄your commands cause/what you have commanded causes► me to be happy. 
◄Your requirements are/All the things that you have instructed us to do are► always fair; help me to understand them in order that I may continue to live. 
Yahweh, with all my inner being I call out to you; answer me and I will obey ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
I call out to you; save/rescue me in order that I can continue to obey all ◄your requirements/the things that you have instructed us to do►. 
Each morning I arise before dawn and call to you to help me; I confidently expect you to do what you have ◄promised/said that you will do►. 
All during the night I am awake, and I ◄meditate on/think about► what you have ◄promised/said that you would do►. 
Yahweh, because you faithfully love me, listen to me while I pray, and keep me safe because of my obeying ◄your regulations/what you have told us to do►. 
Those evil people who oppress/persecute me are coming closer to me; they do not pay any attention to your laws. 
But Yahweh, you are near to me, and I know that ◄your commands/what you command► will never be changed. 
Long ago I found out about ◄your requirements/all the things that you have instructed us to do►, and I know that you intended them to last forever. 
Look at me and see that I am suffering very much, and heal me, because I do not forget your laws. 
Defend me when others accuse me, and rescue me from them; allow me to continue to live, as you promised/said that you would. 
Wicked people do not obey ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►, so you will certainly not save them. 
Yahweh, you are very merciful; allow me to continue to live because of my obeying ◄your regulations/the rules that you have given to us►. 
Many people are my enemies and many people ◄cause me to suffer/persecute me►, but I ◄do not turn aside from/have not stopped obeying► LIT ◄your requirements/what you have instructed us to do►. 
When I look at those who are not faithful to you, I am disgusted because they do not obey ◄your requirements/what you have instructed us to do►. 
Yahweh, notice that I love ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►; because you faithfully love me, allow me to continue to live. 
All that you have said is truth, and all ◄your regulations/the rules that you have given to us► will endure forever. 
Rulers persecute me for no reason, but in my inner being I revere ◄your words/what you have said►. 
I am happy about ◄your words/what you have promised to do for me►, as happy as someone who has found a great treasure. 
I thoroughly hate DOU all lies but I love your laws. 
Seven/Many times each day I thank you for ◄your regulations/the rules that you have given to us►, and they are all just/fair. 
Things go well for those who love your laws; there is nothing adverse/bad that will happen to them. 
Yahweh, I confidently expect that you will rescue me from my troubles, and I obey ◄your commands/what you have commanded us►. 
I obey ◄what you require/what you have instructed► us to do; I love it all very much. 
I obey ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►, and you see everything that I do. 
Yahweh, listen while I pray for you to help me; help me to understand ◄your words/what you have told us to do►. 
Hear me while I pray and rescue/save me as you promised/said that you would. 
I MTY will always praise you because you teach me ◄your statutes/what you have decreed that we should do►. 
I will sing about ◄your words/what you have promised to do► because ◄all your commands are/everything that you have commanded is► just/fair. 
I ask you SYN to always be ready to help me because I have chosen to obey ◄your principles of behavior/what you have declared that we should do►. 
Yahweh, I eagerly desire for you to rescue/save me from my enemies; I am delighted with your laws. 
Allow me to continue to live in order that I can continue to praise you, and that your regulations/rules that you have given to us will continue to help me. 
I have wandered away from you like SIM a sheep that has become lost; search for me, because I have not forgotten ◄your commands/what you have commanded us►. 
