Exodus.
Chapter 1.
36 The sons of Jacob who went to Egypt with him along with their families were 
Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, 
Issachar, Zebulun, Benjamin, 
Dan, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
Altogether there were 70 people who went with Jacob. That included his sons, his grandsons, and two great-grandsons. His son Joseph was already in Egypt. 
Eventually Joseph and his older and younger brothers and everyone else in their family who lived ◄in that generation/at that time► died. 
But Jacob’s descendants kept giving birth to many children IDM. The number of his descendants kept becoming larger and larger. As a result, there were so many of them that they were everywhere in Egypt (OR, that they became a threat to the Egyptians). 
Then several hundred years later, a new king began to rule MTY in Egypt. He did not know what Joseph had done for the people of Egypt long ago. 
He said to his people, “Look at what has happened! The Israeli people have become so numerous and so powerful that they now might conquer us! 
We must find a way to control them! If we do not do that, their population will continue to grow. Then, if enemies PRS attack us, they will join with our enemies and fight against us, and they will escape from our land.” 
So the king and his officials put supervisors over the Israeli people to cause them to suffer very much by forcing them to work very hard. They forced the Israeli people to build two cities, Pithom and Ramses, in which to store supplies for the king/government. 
But the more cruelly they treated the Israeli people, the bigger the Israeli population grew, and they became more numerous all over the land. So the Egyptian people began to be afraid of the Israeli people. 
They forced the Israeli people to work very hard, 
and by making them slaves, they made their lives miserable. They forced them to build many buildings with mortar and bricks. They also forced them to do other work in the fields. In making them do all this work, the Egyptian officials treated them ruthlessly/cruelly. 
There were two Hebrew ◄midwives/women who helped the women when they were giving birth►. Hebrew means the same as Israeli. The names of the women were Shiphrah and Puah. The king of Egypt said to those two women, 
“When you help the Hebrew women when they are giving birth MTY, if the baby that is born is a boy, you must kill it. If the baby is a girl, you ◄may let it live/do not have to kill them►.” 
But the midwives feared/revered God. So they did not do what the king told them to do. They allowed the baby boys to live. 
So the king summoned the two midwives and said to them, “Why are you doing this? Why are you letting the baby boys live?” 
One of the midwives replied to the king, “You need to realize that the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women. The Hebrew women are very strong/healthy. They give birth to their babies before we can get to them to help them.” 
So God acted kindly toward the midwives, and the Hebrew people became even more numerous and strong. 
Furthermore, because the midwives feared/revered God, he enabled them also to give birth to children. 
Then the king commanded all ◄the Egyptian people/his advisors►: “You must throw into the Nile River every baby boy born that the Hebrew women give birth to! But you can allow the baby girls to live.” 
