JOB.
Chapter 15.
Then Eliphaz replied to Job: 
“If you were truly wise RHQ, you would not have replied to us by claiming that you know a lot; what you are saying is just a lot of hot air MET. 
You should not RHQ be saying things that do not benefit anyone, using words that do no one any good. 
By what you say, you show that you do not revere God, and you are hindering people from meditating/thinking about God. 
It is as though your sins are telling you what to say; you talk like people who will not admit that they are wicked. 
Everything that you say MTY shows that you should be punished; so, it is not necessary for me to show that. 
“Tell me do you know more than everyone else because you think that you are the first person who was ever born? SAR, RHQ Were you born before the hills were created? 
Were you listening when God made all his plans? SAR, RHQ Or do you think that you are the only person who is wise? 
◄What do you know that we do not know?/You do not know anything that we do not know.► RHQ You do not understand RHQ anything that is not also clear to us. 
My friends and I are also wise; we acquired wisdom from old gray-haired people, from people who were born before your father was born. 
God wants to comfort you, and to speak gently/kindly to you; ◄is that not enough for you/do you need more than that►? 
Why do you allow yourself to be ◄carried away/excited► by your emotions? Why are you very angry, with the result that your eyes flash? 
You are angry IDM with God, and so you MTY are criticizing/denouncing him. 
“◄How can any person, including you, be sinless?/No person, including you, can be sinless.► RHQ ◄How can anyone on the earth be completely righteous?/No one on the earth can be completely righteous.► RHQ 
Hey, God does not even trust his angels; he does not consider even them to be completely pure. 
So, he certainly does not trust abominable/disgusting and depraved/corrupt people who do evil things as easily  as they drink water MET. 
Job, listen to what I will tell you. I will declare to you what I know, 
things that wise men have told me, truths that their ancestors did not keep hidden. 
God gave this land to those ancestors, who were truly wise; no one from another country caused them to think wrongly IDM. 
It is wicked people who suffer with great pain all the time that they are alive; that is what happens to those who ◄oppress/act violently toward► others. 
They constantly hear sounds that terrify them; while they are prospering, bandits attack them. 
Wicked people surely know that they will not escape from darkness/death, because they are sure that someone is waiting to kill them with a sword. 
They wander around, searching for food, saying ‘Where can I find some?’ And they know that they will soon experience disasters. 
Because they are afraid of those things happening to them, they are afraid and worry that these things will come to them like the army of a king comes to attack their enemies and cause them to suffer SIM. 
Those things happen to them because they ◄shook their fists/dared to fight► against Almighty God, and thought that they were strong enough to defeat him. 
They stubbornly IDM rush to attack God as though they were carrying a strong shield to protect themselves. 
They are so fat that they are unable to fight. 
They will live in cities that have been abandoned, cities which have become a heap of ruins. 
But they will not remain rich very long; Everything that they own will be taken from them; their possessions will all disappear. 
They will not escape from the darkness of death; they will be like trees whose branches are burned by fire and whose blossoms are blown away by the wind. 
Since they are very foolish, with the result that they trust in things that are really worthless, then things that are worthless will be all that they get. 
Before they are old, they will wither; they will be like MET branches that wither and never become green again. 
They will be like SIM vines whose grapes fall off before they are ripe, like olive trees whose blossoms fall off before they produce any fruit. 
Wicked/godless people will not have any descendants, and fires will completely burn up the homes of those who built those homes using money they received from bribes. 
They plan to cause trouble and to do evil things, and they are always preparing to deceive people.” 
