EZEKIEL.
Chapter 24.
Almost nine yearsafter we had been taken to Babylonia, on the tenth day of the tenth month of that year, Yahweh gave me this message: 
“You human, write down what day of the month this is. On this daythe army ofthe King of Babylon has surrounded Jerusalem. 
Tell those rebellious Israeli people MTY in Babylon a parable. Say this to them: This is what Yahweh the Lord says: ‘Pour water into the cooking pot and put the pot onthe fire. 
Put into the pot some pieces of meatfrom one of your best sheep: Put in the leg and shoulder, which are the best pieces. Then fill the rest of the pot with the best bones. 
Pile wood on the fire, and cook the bones and the meat in the boiling water.’ 
Do that because this is what Yahweh the Lord says: ‘Terrible things will happen toJerusalem; it is city that is full of murderers MTY, a city that is like MET a scorched pot whose black residue inside cannot be removed. Take the pieces of meat out of the pot, but do not choose which pieces to take out. 
The blood of the people who were murdered in Jerusalem is still there; they were murdered on the bare rocks, not on the soil, where their blood could be covered. 
But I am the one who caused the blood of those who were murdered MTY to be smeared on the bare rock, where their blood could not be covered; I did that in order thatI could see it and then be angry and get revenge.’ 
Therefore, this is what I, Yahweh the Lord say: ‘Terrible things will happen to that city that is full of murderers MTY! It will be as though I also will pile high the wood in the fire. 
So, heap on the wood and light the fire! Cook the meat well, and mix some spices with it; cook it until the bones are charred. 
Then set the empty pot on the coalsof the fire until the pot becomes very hot and the copper glows, with the result that the impurities and the rust will be burned up. 
It is as though I tried to get rid of that rust, but I was not able to do it, not even by putting that pot in a fire. 
The rustin the pot represents your immoral behavior. I tried to cleanse you from your wicked behavior, but you did not allow me to do that. So you will not cleansedfrom the guilt of your sin untilI have punished you and I am no longer angry. 
I, Yahweh, have said that I will surely punish you. And it is time for me to do that. I will not change my mind; I will not refrain from punishing you, and I will not pity you. I will judge you and punish you as you deserve to be punished for your sinful behavior. That will surely happen because I, Yahweh the Lord, have said it.’ ” 
One day Yahweh gave me this message: 
“You human, I am going to suddenly take from youyour wife, whom you love very much. Butwhen she dies, do notshow that you are sad or lament or cry. 
Groan quietly; do not cry openly for her. Keep your turban wrapped around your head, andinstead of being barefoot, keep your sandals on your feet. Do not cover the lower part of your faceto show that you are sad. And do not eat the kind of food that people who are mourning usually eat.” 
Soone morning I talked to the peopleas usual, and that evening my wife suddenly died. The next morning I did what Yahweh had told me to do. 
Then the people asked me, “What do the things that you are doing signify to us?” 
So I said to them, “This is what Yahweh told me: 
‘Tell the Israeli people MTY that I am about to destroy the temple, the building that you are very proud of, the building that you delight to look at. Your children whom you leftin Jerusalem when you were forced to come to Babylon will be killed bytheir enemies’ swords. 
When that happens, you will do like I have done: You will not cover the lower part of your faces, or eat the kinds of food that people who are mourning usually eat. 
You will keep your turbans wrapped around your heads and keep your sandals on your feet. You will not mourn or cry, but your bodies will become very thin and slowly die because of your sins. And you will groan to each other. 
Ezekiel will be a warning to you, and you must do what he has done. When that happens, you will know that I, Yahweh the Lordhave the power to do what I say that I will do.’ ” 
Then Yahweh said to me, “You human, soon I will destroy their sacred temple, which they rejoice about and which they respect and delight to look at, and I will get rid of their sons and daughters also. 
On that day, someone will escape from Jerusalem and come and tell you what has happened there. 
When that happens, you will be able to speak again MTY without constraint. You two will talk together DOU. You will be a warning to the people; and they will know that I, Yahweh the Lord, have the power to do what I say that I will do.” 
