Isaiah.
Chapter 66.
Yahweh also said this: “All of heaven is like my throne, and the whole earth is like my footstool. So you could certainly not RHQ build a house that would be adequate for me to live in and rest! 
I MTY have created everything; all things exist because I made them. That is true because I, Yahweh, have said it. The people I am most pleased with are those who are humble, who patiently endure it when they ◄suffer/are afflicted►, and who tremble when they hear me rebuking them. 
You have enjoyed continually doing the things that you want to do: Some of you slaughter oxen to sacrifice them to me, but you also bring human sacrifices to your idols! You sacrifice lambs to me, but you kill dogs to offer them to your gods. You offer grain to me, but you also bring pigs’ blood to your idols. You burn incense to me, but you also praise your idols. You enjoy doing those disgusting things. 
When I called out to you, you did not answer. When I spoke, you did not pay attention. You did many things that I say are evil; you chose to do things that I did not like. So now I will punish you by causing you to experience the things that you are very afraid of.” 
But you people who tremble when you hear what Yahweh says, listen to what he says now: “Some of your people hate you and reject you because you belong to me. They make fun of you, and they say, ‘Yahweh should show his glorious power! We want to see him do something to cause you to be truly happy.’ But some day those people will be very disgraced.” 
At that time, you will listen to the noise in the city. You will hear the shouting in the temple. It will be the sound of Yahweh shouting while he is punishing his enemies! 
No one RHQ ever heard that a woman gave birth to a baby when she was just starting to have birth pains. 
Certainly no one RHQ ever heard about such a thing happening, and no one has ever seen it happen. Similarly, no one ever RHQ heard that a nation was created in one instant, not even in one day. But Jerusalem is like MET a woman who gives birth to children as soon as she starts to have birth pains. 
Women certainly do not RHQ bring infants to the time when they are ready to be born and then do not allow them to be born. Similarly, he will do for Jerusalem MET what he has promised to do: He will cause Jerusalem to be full of people again. That will happen because Yahweh has said it. 
You people in APO Jerusalem, rejoice! And all you people who love Jerusalem should also be happy. You people who were sad because of what happened to Jerusalem, you should now be glad. 
You people in Jerusalem will have everything that you need like MET a baby that gets all it needs from its mother’s breasts. You will enjoy all the abundant and glorious things MET in the city. 
Yahweh has promised, “I will cause Jerusalem to be full of valuable things that come from other nations; those things will pour into Jerusalem; it will be like SIM a big flood. I will take care of the people of Jerusalem like women care for the babies that they nurse. 
I will comfort you people in Jerusalem like MET mothers comfort their children.” 
When you see those things happen, you SYN will rejoice. Your old bones will become strong again like SIM grass that grows quickly/well in the springtime. When that happens, everyone will know that Yahweh has power MTY to help those who worship and obey him, but that he is angry with his enemies. 
Yahweh will come down with flames of fire, and his chariots will come down like SIM a whirlwind; he will be extremely angry, and he will punish his enemies by burning them in a fire. 
It is as though MET Yahweh has a big sword, and he will judge and execute many people. 
Yahweh says, “Some of you people purify/bathe yourselves and then go to a garden to worship your gods. You eat the meat of pigs and lizards and mice, and other things that I have forbidden you to eat. So I will get rid of you for doing that. 
I know all the evil things that you think and do. It is now time for me to gather together the people who live in all nations and who speak all languages, and to show them that I am very great. 
I will put a mark on them, and those whom I have spared will go to various distant countries: to Tarshish, Put, Lud, Meshech, Tubal, Javan, and to distant islands. I will send them to proclaim to nations that have never heard about me that I am very great and glorious. 
Then they will bring back here your relatives who have been ◄exiled/forced to go to other countries►, to be like SIM an offering to me. They will come on horses, in chariots, on mules, and on camels. They will come to Zion, my sacred hill in Jerusalem. That will be like SIM the offerings that my Israeli people used to bring in the correct manner to the temple. 
I solemnly promise that I will appoint some of them to be priests, and others to do other work in my temple. That will surely happen because I, Yahweh, have said it. 
I also promise that just like the new heaven and the new earth will last forever, you will always have descendants, and you MTY will always be honored. 
At every festival to celebrate the Sabbath each week and the new moon each month, everyone will come and worship me. That will surely happen because I, Yahweh, have said it. 
Then they will go out of Jerusalem and look at the corpses of those who rebelled against me. The maggots in those corpses will never die, the fire will never stop burning them, and everyone who sees their corpses will detest them.” 
