DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 3.
“Then we turned north and went toward the Bashan region. Og, the king of that area, and all his soldiers marched south to fight against us at Edrei town. 
Yahweh said to me, ‘Do not be afraid of him, because I will enable your army to defeat MTY him and all his army and to capture all their land. Do to him what you did to Sihon, the king of the Amor people-group, who ruled in Heshbon city.’ 
“o Yahweh enabled us to defeat IDM King Og and all his army. We killed them all; we did not allow any of them to remain alive. 
There were 60 cities in that region near Argob, in King Og’s kingdom of Bashan. But we captured all of them 
All those cities had high walls around them with gates and bars. We also captured many villages that did not have walls around them. 
We completely destroyed everything, just as we had done in the area that King Sihon ruled. We killed all the men, women, and children. 
But from those cities we took for ourselves all the livestock and other valuable things. 
“o at that time we took from those two kings of the Amor people-group all the land east of the Jordan River, from the Arnon River gorge in the south to Hermon Mountain in the north.” 
(That mountain is called Sirion by the people of Sidon city and is called Senir by the Amor people-group.) 
“We captured all the towns on the ◄plateau/high level land►, and all the Gilead region, and all the Bashan region as far east as Edrei and Salecah towns, which also belonged to Og’s kingdom.” 
(Og was the last king who was a descendant of the Repha giants. His bed was made of iron. It was almost ◄14 feet/4 meters► long and ◄6 feet/2 meters► wide. It is still RHQ in Rabbah city in the Ammon area.) 
“From the land that we captured at that time, I allotted to the tribes of Reuben and Gad the land north of Aroer town near the Arnon River, and some of the hilly area of the Gilead region, along with the nearby towns. 
The other part of the Gilead region and all of the Bashan region, which was the Argob region that King Og had ruled, I allotted to half of the tribe of Manasseh.” (The entire Bashan region is called the land of the Repha giants.) 
“Jair, from the tribe of Manasseh, conquered all the Bashan area as far north as the border of the Geshur and Maacah territories. He gave his own name to the villages there, and they are still called the villages of Jair. 
The northern part of the Gilead region I allotted to the Machir clan, who are descendants of the tribe of Manasseh. 
I allotted to the tribes of Reuben and Gad the southern part of the Gilead region, extending south to the Arnon River. The middle of the river is the southern boundary. The northern boundary is the Jabbok River, which is part of the border of the Ammon area. 
To the west their territory extended to the Jordan River  Valley, from Galilee Lake in the north to the Dead Sea in the south and to the slopes of Pisgah Mountain to the east. 
At that time, I told you three tribes, ‘Yahweh our God is giving you this land east of the Jordan River, for you to occupy/capture. So now, give your soldiers weapons, and send them across the Jordan River ahead of the men from the other Israeli tribes to help them to conquer/capture the land that has been allotted to them. 
But your wives and children and your very numerous cattle must stay in the towns that I have allotted to you. 
Your men must help your fellow Israelis until Yahweh enables them to live there peacefully after they capture all the land that Yahweh our God is giving to them on the west side of the Jordan River, just like he did for you here on the east side of the river. After that, you all may return to this land that I have allotted to you.’ 
And I told Joshua, ‘You SYN have seen everything that Yahweh our God did to those two kings, Sihon and Og. He will do the same thing to the people who are now in the land that you will be entering. 
Do not be afraid of those people, because Yahweh our God is the one who will fight for you all.’” 
“At that time, I earnestly prayed, saying 
‘Yahweh our Lord, you have merely begun to show me that you are very great and to show me the powerful things that you can do MTY. There is certainly no RHQ god in heaven or on earth who can do the powerful things/deeds that you have done. 
So please allow me to cross the Jordan River and to see the good/fertile land on the west side, the beautiful hilly area and the mountains in Lebanon.’ 
But Yahweh was angry with me because of what your ancestors had made me do, so he would not pay attention to me. Instead, he said, ‘That is enough talk from you! Do not talk to me about that again! 
Climb up to the top of Pisgah Mountain and look toward the west and to the east, toward the north and to the south. Look at MTY it all carefully, because you will not cross the Jordan River to see the land from there. 
But tell Joshua what he must do and encourage him to be strong, because he is the one who will lead the people across the river in order that they can occupy/capture the land that you will see from the top of the mountain.’ 
So we remained in the Jordan River Valley close to Beth-Peor town.” 
