1 CHRONICLES.
Chapter 11.
Then the people of Israel came to David at Hebron town and said to him, “Listen, we have the same ancestors IDM that you have. 
In the past, when Saul was our king, it was you who led our Israeli soldiers in our battles. You are the one to whom Yahweh our God promised, ‘You will be the leader MET of my people; you will be their king.’” 
So all the Israeli elders came to David at Hebron. And David made a sacred agreement with them while Yahweh was listening. They anointed him with olive oil to set him apart to be the king of the Israeli people. That is what Yahweh had previously told the prophet Samuel would happen. 
David and all the Israeli soldiers SYN went to Jerusalem. At that time, Jerusalem was called Jebus, and the people who lived there were the Jebus people-group. 
Those people said to David, “Your soldiers will not be able to get inside our city!” But David’s soldiers captured the city, even though it had strong walls around it, and since then it has been called ‘The City of David’. 
What happened was this:: David said to his soldiers, “The one who leads our soldiers to attack the Jebus people-group will become the commander of all my army.” Joab, the son of Zeruiah, led the soldiers, so he became the commander of all the army. 
After they captured the city which had strong walls around it, David moved there. That is why they named it ‘The City of David’. 
David’s workers rebuilt the city, starting where the land was filled in and extending to the wall that was around the city. Joab’s men repaired the other parts of the city. 
David became more and more powerful/influential, because the Almighty Commander of the armies of angels was with/helping him. 
Yahweh had promised that David would become the king. And all the Israeli people ◄were happy that David was/supported David as► their king. There were many soldiers/warriors who helped David’s kingdom to remain strong. 
This is a list of the leaders of David’s most mighty warriors: Jashobeam was from the Hacmon clan. He was one of the leaders of David’s most powerful soldiers. One time he fought against 300 enemies and killed them all with his spear. 
Another one was Eleazar, who was the son of Dodo from the clan of Ahoh. 
One day he was with David at Pas Dammim when the soldiers of Philistia gathered there for the battle. There was a field of barley there. At first the Israeli soldiers ran away from the soldiers of Philistia, 
but then David and Eleazar stopped in the middle of the field and fought to defend it and killed many of the soldiers of Philistia. Yahweh enabled them to win a great victory on that day. 
One time three of David’s thirty most mighty warriors came to David when he was camping next to the huge rock outside the cave near Adullam. At that same time, the army of Philistia had camped in the Rephaim Valley. 
David was in a fortress, and some of the soldiers of Philistia were occupying Bethlehem. 
One day David was very thirsty and said, “I wish that someone would bring me some water from the well near the gate at Bethlehem!” 
So those three most outstanding warriors forced their way through the camp of Philistia soldiers and drew some water from the well, and brought it to David. But he would not drink it. Instead, he poured it out on the ground to be an offering to Yahweh. 
He said, “Yahweh, it would certainly not be right for me to drink this water! That would be like RHQ drinking the blood of these men who were willing/ready to die for me!” So he refused to drink it. That was one of the things that those three most outstanding warriors did. 
Joab’s younger brother Abishai was the leader of the 30 most mighty warriors. One time Abishai fought 300 enemy soldiers with his spear and killed them. 
So he became as famous as those three most outstanding warriors. He became their commander, even though he was not one of those three men. 
Jehoiada’s son Benaiah was a brave soldier from Kabzeel town who did heroic deeds. He killed two of the best warriors from the Moab people-group. One day he went down into a pit when snow was falling on the ground and killed a lion there. 
He also killed a soldier from Egypt who was ◄7-1/2 feet/2.3 meters► tall. The soldier from Egypt carried a spear that was as long as a weaver’s rod. Benaiah had only a club, but he grabbed the other man’s spear and killed him with it. 
Those are some of the things that Benaiah did. So he became as famous as the three mighty warriors. 
He was more honored than the other members of the group of thirty most mighty warriors, but he did not become a member of the group of three most outstanding warriors. David appointed him to be the leader of his bodyguards. 
These are the names of David’s mighty warriors: Asahel, the younger brother of Joab; Elhanan, the son of Dodo, from Bethlehem; 
Shammah, from the Harod clan; Helez, from the Pelon clan; 
Ira, the son of Ikkesh, from Tekoa town; Abiezer, from Anathoth city; 
Sibbecai, from Hushah’s clan; Ilai from Ahoh’s clan; 
Maharai, from Netophah town; Heled, the son of Baanah, also from Netophah town; 
Ithai, the son of Ribai, from Gibeah town  in the land that belonged to the tribe of Benjamin; Benaiah, from Pirathon town; 
Hurai, from the valleys near Gaash Mountain; Abiel from the clan of Arabah; 
Azmaveth, from Baharum town; Eliahba, from Shaalbon town; 
The sons of Hashem from the Gizon clan; Jonathan the son of Shagee from the Harar town/clan; 
Ahiam the son of Sharar/Sacar, from Harar town/clan; Eliphal the son of Ur; 
Hepher from the Mekerath clan; Ahijah from the Pelon clan/town; 
Hezro from Carmel city; Naarai the son of Ezbai; 
Joel the younger brother of Nathan; Mibhar the son of Hagri; 
Zelek from the Ammon people-group; Naharai, the man who carried Joab’s weapons, from Beeroth town; 
Ira and Gareb from Jattir town; 
Uriah, Bathsheba’s husband, from the Heth people-group; Zabad the son of Ahlai; 
Adina the son of Shiza, a leader from the tribe of Reuben, who had thirty soldiers with him; 
Hanan the son of Maacah; Joshaphat from Mithna town/clan; 
Uzzia from Ashterath town; Shama and Jeiel, the sons of Hotham, from Aroer city; 
Jediael the son of Shimri and his younger brother Joha, from Tiz town/clan; 
Eliel from Mahavah town/clan; Jeribai and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam; Ithmah from the Moab region; 
Eliel and Obed, and Jaasiel from Zobah town/clan. 
