REVELATION.
Chapter 4.
After these things I, John, saw in the vision that there was a door open in heaven. The one whose voice was like SIM a loud trumpet, the one who had spoken to me previously, said to me, “Come up here! I will show you events that must happen later.” 
Immediately I experienced that God’s Spirit was specially controlling me. There was a throne there in heaven, and on the throne someone was sitting and ruling. 
He shone like SIM a brilliant crystalline jasper jewel and like a brilliant red carnelian jewel. Around the throne was a rainbow that shone like a brilliant green emerald jewel. 
Around the throne there were 24 other thrones. On these thrones 24 elders were sitting. They were wearing pure white garments and had golden crowns on their heads. 
From the throne there came lightning and rumblings and thundering. Seven torches of fire were burning in front of the throne. Those represent the Spirit of God, who has all kinds of power (OR, who is also symbolized as seven spirits). 
In front of the throne there was what looked like an ocean made of glass. It was clear, like crystal. On each of the four sides of the throne there was a living creature. Each one was covered with eyes in front and behind. 
The first living creature was like a lion. The second living creature was like an ox. The third living creature had a face like a man’s face. The fourth living creature was like an eagle that was flying. Each of the four living creatures had six wings. They were covered with eyes, all around their bodies and under their wings. Day and night they continually LIT sing: Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God, the Almighty One. He is the one who has always existed, who exists now, and who will always exist. 
The living creatures praise, honor DOU, and thank the one who sits on the throne, the one who lives forever. Whenever they do that, the 24 elders ◄prostrate themselves/kneel down► before the one who sits on the throne, and they worship him, the one who lives forever. They lay their crowns in front of the throne and sing: 
Our(exc) Lord and God, you are worthy that all beings praise you, you are worthy that all beings honor you, and you are worthy that all beings acknowledge that you are the powerful one, because you alone created all things. Moreover, because you planned that they should exist, you created them, and so they exist. 
