NUMBERS.
Chapter 28.
Yahweh said this to Moses/me: 
“Tell this to the Israeli people: Bring to me the offerings that will be burned on the altar. When they are burned, the smell will be very pleasing to me. And tell them that they must bring them at the proper/right time. 
Tell them that what they must bring to me each day are two male lambs that are one-year-old. They must have no defects. They must be completely burned on the altar. 
They should bring one in the morning and the other early in the evening. 
They must also bring an offering of grain, consisting of two quarts/liters of finely-ground flour, mixed with a quart of olive oil. 
That is the offering that they must bring every day. They started to bring those offerings while you were at Sinai Mountain. When those offerings are burned on the altar, the smell will be very pleasing to me. 
When they burn each lamb, they must also pour on the sacred altar one quart/liter of wine. 
In the evening, when they offer the second lamb, they must also bring the same offerings of grain and wine as they burned in the morning. When they are burned, the smell will also be very pleasing to me.” 
“On each ◄Sabbath/rest day►, you must bring two male lambs that have no defects. Also bring a grain offering of four quarts/liters of finely-ground flour mixed with olive oil and a wine offering of four quarts/liters of wine. 
Those are the offerings that are to be burned on the altar each ◄Sabbath/rest day►. Those are in addition to the offerings of two lambs and wine that you must bring each day.” 
“On the first day of each month, you must bring to me an offering of two young bulls, one male sheep, and seven male lambs that are one-year-old. All of these must be without defects. They must all be burned completely on the altar. 
Also bring with each bull an offering of six quarts/liters of finely-ground flour mixed with olive oil. With each male sheep make an offering of four quarts of finely-ground flour mixed with olive oil. 
Also bring an offering of two quarts/liters of finely-ground flour mixed with olive oil with each lamb. When all of these are burned on the altar, the smell will be very pleasing to me. 
With each bull, also bring two quarts/liters of wine. With each male sheep, bring ◄1-1/3 quarts/1.2 liters► of wine. With each lamb, bring one quart/liter of wine. These offerings must be brought on the first day of each month and burned completely on the altar. 
In addition to these offerings that you burn, you must bring to me one goat for an offering to enable me to forgive you for the sins you have committed.” 
“The Passover Festival must be celebrated to honor me each year on the fourteenth day of the first month of each year. 
The Festival of Unleavened Bread will start on the next day. For the following seven days, the bread that you eat must be made without yeast. 
On the first day of that festival, you must gather together to worship me, and you must not do any work. 
On that day, you must bring to me for an offering that will be completely burned on the altar two young bulls, one male sheep, and seven male lambs that are one-year-old. They must all have no defects. 
With each of these bulls, bring a grain offering of grain, consisting of six quarts/liters of finely-ground flour mixed with olive oil. With the male sheep, bring an offering of grain consisting of four quarts/liters of finely-ground flour mixed with olive oil. 
With each of the seven lambs, bring an offering of two quarts/liters of finely-ground flour mixed with olive oil. 
Also bring one goat for a sacrifice to cause you to be forgiven for your sin. 
Bring these offerings in addition to the offerings that you bring each morning. 
The smell of the grain that is burned on the altar each day for seven days will be very pleasing to me. Bring the grain in addition to the animals and the wine that you burn on the altar. 
On the seventh day of that festival, you must again gather together to worship me, and you must not do any work.” 
“On the day of the Harvest Festival, when you bring to me the first grain that you have harvested, you must gather together to worship me. Do not do any work on that day. 
Bring to me two young bulls, one male sheep, and seven male lambs that are one-year-old. When they are completely burned on the altar, the smell will be very pleasing to me. 
Also bring a grain offering of nice flour mixed with olive oil. For each bull, bring six quarts/liters, and with each male sheep, bring four quarts/liters, 
and with each of the lambs bring two quarts/liters. 
Also sacrifice one male goat to cause you to be forgiven for your sins. 
Bring these offerings and the offering of wine in addition to the animals and grain that you burn on the altar each day. And remember that the animals that you sacrifice must have no defects.” 
