COLOSSIANS.
Chapter 4.
You masters, treat your slaves justly and fairly, because you know that you have a master who is in heaven who will say whether he approves of what you have done. 
Pray to God persistently, and as you pray, be alert and be thanking God. 
Since I am in prison MTY because I declared the message about Christ that God has now revealed, pray also for me that God will give me opportunities MTY to speak, in order that I might declare it. 
That is, pray for me that God will enable me to make his message known publicly. I need to do this because I know that I should declare it. 
Act wisely towards those who do not believe in the Lord Jesus MTY; use every opportunity to do that. 
In particular, always speak graciously and in a pleasant way to those who do not believe in the Lord Jesus. As a result, you will come to know in what manner you should answer each one of them. 
Tychicus will tell you all that has been happening to me. He is a fellow believer whom I/we (exc) love and who helps me faithfully and who serves the Lord Jesus together with me. 
The reason that I am sending Tychicus to you with this letter is that he might know how you are and in order that he might strengthen you spiritually. (OR, in order that you might know about us (exc) and in order that he might comfort you.) 
I am sending him to you with Onesimus, who is a faithful fellow believer whom I/we (inc) love and who is your fellow townsman. They will tell you all about what has been happening here. 
Aristarchus, who is in prison with me, and Mark, who is Barnabas’ cousin, ◄say that they are thinking fondly about you/send you their greetings►. I have instructed you about Mark, so if he comes to you, welcome him. 
Jesus, who is also called Justus, also ◄says that he is thinking fondly about you/greets you/sends you his greetings►. These three men are the only Jewish believers who are working with me in order that people would submit to God as their king, and they have all comforted me. 
Epaphras, who is your fellow townsman and who serves Christ Jesus, ◄says that he is thinking fondly about you/greets you/sends you his greetings►. Epaphras prays earnestly for you very often, that you might be spiritually mature and that you might know fully all that God wills for you. 
I can assure you that he prays this because he is deeply concerned for you, for those who live in Laodicea city, and for those who live in Hierapolis city. 
Luke, the doctor, whom I/we (exc) love, and Demas ◄say that they are thinking fondly about you/send you their greetings►. 
Tell the fellow believers who live in Laodicea city and Nympha and the congregation that meets in her house that we ◄are thinking fondly about them/send them our greetings►. 
After someone reads this letter publicly to you, cause someone to also read it to the congregation that is in Laodicea city. And as for the letter that I wrote to the congregation that is in Laodicea city, make sure that it is also read among you {you should also read that letter} publicly. 
Say to Archippus, “Make sure that you complete the task that God appointed you to do, because you have a close relationship with the Lord Jesus.” 
I, Paul, ◄am thinking fondly about you/send you my greetings►. Having taken the pen from my scribe, I am now writing this myself in order that you may know that I have truly sent this letter. Remember to pray about the fact that I am in prison MTY. I pray that our Lord Jesus Christ would continue to act graciously towards you all. 
