JOSHUA.
Chapter 12.
The Israelis took control of the land that was east of the Jordan River, from the Arnon River gorge in the south to Hermon Mountain in the north, including all the land on the eastern side of the Jordan River Valley. That land previously belonged to the two kings whose armies the Israelis defeated. 
One of them was Sihon, the king of the Amor people-group. He lived in Heshbon city and ruled over the area from Aroer town along the Arnon River Gorge, north to the Jabbok River. His land started in the middle of the gorge, which was the border between his land and the land of the Ammon people-group. Sihon also ruled over the southern half of the Gilead region, 
and over the land on the eastern side of the Jordan River Valley, from Galilee Lake south to the Dead Sea. He also ruled over the land east of the Dead Sea from Beth-Jeshimoth south to the side of Pisgah Mountain. 
The other king whom the Israeli army defeated was Og, the king of the Bashan region. He was the last of the descendants of the giant Rapha. He ruled that land, living alternately in Ashtaroth and Edrei cities. 
He ruled over the area from Hermon Mountain and Salecah in the north, and over all the Bashan area in the east, and to the borders of the kingdoms of Geshur and Maacah to the west. Og ruled the northern half of the Gilead region, as far as the border of the land ruled by King Sihon. 
Moses, the man who served Yahweh well, and all the Israeli army defeated the armies of those kings. Then Moses gave that land to the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half of the tribe of Manasseh. 
Joshua and the Israeli army also defeated kings who ruled over the land on the west side of the Jordan River. He gave that land to the Israeli people, dividing it among the other tribes. That land was between Baal-Gad city in the Lebanon Valley in the far north all the way south to Halak Mountain, which is near the land of the Edom people-group. 
That land included the mountains, the western hilly area, the Jordan River  Valley, the western slopes of the mountains, the desert in Judea, and the Negev desert in the south. That whole area was the land where the Heth, Amor, Canaan, Periz, Hiv, and Jebus people-groups lived. The Israeli army defeated the armies of the kings of each of these cities: 
Jericho, Ai (which was near Bethel), 
Jerusalem, Hebron, 
Jarmuth, Lachish, 
Eglon, Gezer, 
Debir, Geder, 
Hormah, Arad, 
Libnah, Adullam, 
Makkedah, Bethel, 
Tappuah, Hepher, 
Aphek, Lasharon, 
Madon, Hazor, 
Shimron Meron, Acshaph, 
Taanach, Megiddo, 
Kedesh, Jokneam in the Carmel area, 
Dor in the Naphoth-Dor area, Goyim in the Gilgal area, 
and Tirzah. There was a total of 31 kings that the Israeli army defeated. 
