GENESIS.
Chapter 19.
That evening, the two angels arrived in Sodom. Lot was sitting at the gateway of the city. When he saw them, he got up to greet them, and prostrated himself with his face on the ground. 
He said to them, “Gentlemen, please stay in my house tonight. You can wash your feet, and tomorrow you can continue your journey.” But they said, “No, we will just sleep in the city square.” 
But Lot kept insisting strongly that they sleep in his house. So they entered his house with him, and he prepared a meal for them. He baked some bread without yeast, and they ate it. 
After they finished eating, before they went to bed, the men of Sodom city, all of them, from the young ones to the old ones, surrounded the house. 
They called out to Lot, saying, “Where are the men who came to your house this evening? Bring them out, so that we can have sex with them!” EUP 
Lot went outside the house and shut the door behind him, so that they could not go inside. 
He said to them, “My friends, don’t do such an evil thing! 
Listen to me. I have two daughters who have never had sex with any man. Let me bring them out to you now, and you can do with them whatever pleases you. But don’t do anything to these men, because they are guests in my house, so I must protect them!” 
But they replied, “Get out of our way! You are a foreigner; so you have no right to tell us what is right! If you don’t get out of our way, we will do worse things to you than we will do to them!” Then they lunged towards Lot, and tried forcefully to break down the door. 
But the two angels opened the door carefully, reached out their hands, and pulled Lot to them inside the house. Then they quickly shut the door. 
Then they caused all the men who were outside the door of the house, young and old, to become blind, so that they could not find the door. 
Then the two angels said to Lot, “Who else is with you here? If you have sons or sons-in-law or daughters or anyone else in the city who is related to you, take them out of the city, 
because we are the ones who are going to destroy this place. Yahweh considers that these people are so evil that he sent us to destroy the city.” 
So Lot went and spoke to the men who had pledged to marry his daughters. He said to them, “Hurry! Get out of this city, because Yahweh is about to destroy it!” But his future sons-in-law thought he was joking. 
As it was about to dawn the next morning, the two angels urged Lot, saying, “Get up quickly! Take your wife and your two daughters who are here with you and leave! If you don’t, you will die when we destroy/Yahweh destroys the city!” 
When Lot hesitated, the angels grasped his hand and his wife’s hand and the hands of his two daughters. They led them outside the city safely. The angels did that because Yahweh was acting mercifully toward them. 
When they were outside the city, one of the angels said, “If you want to remain alive, run away quickly! Don’t look back! And don’t stop anywhere in the valley! Flee to the hills! If you don’t, you will die!” 
But Lot said to one of the angels, “No, sir, don’t make me do that! 
Please, listen. You have been pleased with me and have been very kind to me and spared my life. But I cannot flee to the mountain. If I try to do that, I will die in this disaster PRS. 
But listen to me. There is a town nearby. Let me run to that small town. Let me go there now. It is a small town, but our lives will be saved if we go there.” 
One of the angels said to Lot, “I will allow you to do what you have requested MTY. I will not destroy the little town you are speaking about. 
But hurry! Run there, because I cannot destroy anything until you arrive there.” People later called the name of the town Zoar which means ‘small’, because Lot said it was small. 
As the sun was rising, Lot and his family arrived in the town which is now called Zoar. 
Then Yahweh caused fire and burning sulfur to fall down on Sodom and Gomorrah like rain. 
In that way, he destroyed those cities and all the people who were living in those cities. He also destroyed everything in the valley, including all the plants/vegetation. 
But Lot’s wife stopped and looked back to see what was happening, so she died, and her body later became a pillar of salt. 
That morning, Abraham got up and went to the place where he had stood in front of Yahweh. 
He looked down toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and he was surprised to see that all over the valley, smoke was rising, like the smoke of a huge furnace. 
So, when God destroyed those cities in the valley, he remembered what he had promised Abraham, and he rescued Lot from the disaster that occurred in the cities where Lot had lived. 
Lot was afraid to stay in Zoar, so he left there and moved with his two daughters to the mountain, and they lived in a cave. 
One day the older daughter said to ◄the younger daughter/her sister►, “Our father is old, and there is no man in this area who can have sex EUP with us, as people all over the earth do. 
Let’s make our father drink wine until he gets drunk. Then we can have sex with him EUP without him knowing it. In that way he will cause us to become pregnant and we can bear children.” 
So that night they caused their father to become drunk. And the older daughter went in and lay in bed with her father, and he had sex with her, but he was so drunk that he did not know when she lay down with him or when she got up. 
The next day, his older daughter said to ◄his younger daughter/her sister►, “Listen to me. Last night I slept with our father. Let’s cause him to become drunk again tonight! This time you can go and sleep with him. If he has sex with you, you can become pregnant, and that way you can have a child, too.” 
So that night, they caused their father to become drunk with wine again, and then his younger daughter went and slept with him. But again, he was so drunk that he did not know when she lay down with him or when she got up. 
So Lot caused his two daughters to become pregnant. 
The older one later gave birth to a son, whom she named Moab. He became the ancestor of the Moab people-group. 
The younger one also gave birth to a son, whom she named Ben-Ammi. He became the ancestor of the Ammon people-group. 
