LEVITICUS.
Chapter 9.
Eight days later, Moses/I summoned the elders of Israel. 
Then he/I said to Aaron, “Take a young bull for the offering to enable you leaders to be forgiven for the sins you have committed, and a ram to be completely burned on the altar, both of them without any defects, and offer them to Yahweh. 
Then say to the Israeli people, ‘Take one male goat for the offering to enable you all to be forgiven for the sins you have committed. Also take a calf and a lamb that have no defects, to be an offering completely burned on the altar. 
Also take an ox and a ram to be an offering to maintain fellowship with Yahweh, along with an offering of flour mixed with olive oil. Do this because today Yahweh is going to appear to you.’ ” 
After Moses/I told this to the Israeli people, some of them took the things that Moses/I had commanded them to take, and went to the courtyard in front of the Sacred Tent. Then all the people came near and stood in front of Yahweh. 
Then Moses/I said, “This is what Yahweh has commanded you to do, in order that his glory will appear to you.” 
Then Moses/I said to Aaron, “Come to the altar and sacrifice the animal that is your offering to enable you to be forgiven for the sins you have committed, and the animal that will be completely burned there. Because of those offerings, God will forgive you and the people for the sins that you have committed DOU. Do those things that Yahweh has commanded.” 
So Aaron came close to the altar and slaughtered the calf to be an offering for his sins. 
His sons brought its blood to him in a bowl. He dipped his finger into the blood and put some of it on the projections at the corners of the altar. He poured out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar. 
He/I burned the fat, including that which covered the kidneys and the liver, as Yahweh had commanded him/me. 
Then Aaron burned the rest of the meat and the hide/skin outside the camp. 
Then Aaron slaughtered the animal that would be completely burned on the altar. His sons handed him the bowl containing its blood, and he sprinkled the blood on all sides of the altar. 
Then they handed him the head and the pieces of the animal that would be burned, and he burned them on the altar. 
He washed the inner parts and the legs of the animal, and burned them on the altar, on top of the other pieces of the animal. 
Then Aaron brought the animals that would be sacrifices for the Israeli people. He took the goat and slaughtered it to be an offering to enable them to be forgiven for the sins they had committed, like he had done with the goat for his own offering. 
Then he brought the animal for the offering to be completely burned. He slaughtered it and offered it in the way that Yahweh had commanded him to do. 
He also brought the offering of grain. He took a handful of it and burned it on the altar, like he had done for the animal that he had slaughtered and completely burned on the altar in the morning. 
Then he slaughtered the ox and the ram, to be an offering for the Israeli people to maintain fellowship with Yahweh. His sons handed him the bowl containing the blood, and he sprinkled the blood against all sides of the altar. 
But he took the fat from the ox and the ram, including their fat tails that were cut close to the backbone, and all the fat that covered the livers and the kidneys. 
He put them on top of the breasts of those animals and carried them to the altar to be burned. 
Then, doing what Moses/I had commanded, he lifted up in front of Yahweh the breast and the right thigh of those animals, to signify that those two animals completely belonged to Yahweh. 
Then Aaron lifted his arms toward the people and asked Yahweh to bless them. Then having finished making all those offerings, he stepped down from the place where the altar was. 
Then Aaron and Moses/I entered the Sacred Tent. When they/we later came out, they/we asked Yahweh to bless the people. And suddenly the glory/brightness of Yahweh appeared to all the people. 
A fire from Yahweh appeared and burned up the offering that was to be completely burned and the fat that was on the altar. And when all the people saw that, they shouted joyfully and prostrated themselves on the ground to worship Yahweh. 
