JOSHUA.
Chapter 19.
The second/next tribe that was allotted land was the tribe of Simeon. Each clan in that tribe was allotted some land that was inside the area that had been allotted to the tribe of Judah. 
Their land included the towns of Beersheba (which is also named Sheba), Moladah, 
Hazar-Shual, Balah, Ezem, 
Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah, 
Ziklag, Beth-Marcaboth. Hazar-Susah, 
Beth-Lebaoth, and Sharuhen. Altogether there were 13 towns and the surrounding villages. 
The land allotted to them also included the four cities of Ain, Rimmon, Ether, and Ashan, and their surrounding villages. 
They were also allotted some very small villages in an area that extended south to Baalath-Beer (which is also named Ramah, in the southern desert). That was the land allotted to the clans of the tribe of Simeon. 
The tribe of Judah had been allotted much more land than they needed, so part of their land was given to the tribe of Simeon. 
The third/next tribe that was allotted land was the tribe of Zebulun. Each clan of that tribe was allotted some of the land. The southern border started at Sarid city. 
It extended west to Maralah city and on to Dabbesheth city, and on to the brook just north of Jokneam city. 
The border extended east from Sarid to the area near Kisloth-Tabor city and on to Daberath town and on to Japhia town. 
From there it extended east to Gath-Hepher city and Eth-Kazin town, and north to Rimmon city. From there the border extended west to Neah town. 
From Neah it extended south to Hannathon city and from there to Iphtah-El Valley. 
Their area included the towns of Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah, and Bethlehem. Altogether there were twelve towns and the surrounding villages. 
That was the land that was allotted to the clans of the tribe of Zebulun. 
The fourth/next tribe that was allotted land was the tribe of Issachar. Each of the clans of that tribe was allotted some of the land. 
Their land included the cities of Jezreel, Kesulloth, Shunem, 
Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath, 
Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez, 
Remeth, En-Gannim, En-Haddah, and Beth-Pazzez. 
The border of the area that was allotted to the tribe of Issachar was close to Tabor, Shahazumah, and Beth-Shemesh cities, and ended in the east at the Jordan River. Altogether there were 16 cities and the surrounding villages. 
Those cities and villages were in the land allotted to the clans of the tribe of Issachar. 
The fifth/next tribe that was allotted land was the tribe of Asher. Each of the clans in that tribe was allotted some of the land. 
Their land included the towns of Helkath, Hali, Beten, Acshaph, 
Allammelech, Amad, and Mishal. The western border started at Carmel Mountain and Shihor-Libnath. 
From there it extended southeast to Beth-Dagon town, and then to the area that was allotted to the tribe of Zebulun and Iphtah-El Valley. From there the border extended east and then north to Beth-Emek town and Neiel and Cabul towns. 
From there it extended west to Abdon, Rehob, Hammon, and Kanah cities, and continued to Sidon, which is a big city. 
From there the border extended south toward Ramah and to the big city of Tyre that had strong walls around it. From there the border extended west to Hosah town and ended at the Mediterranean Sea. Within their area were the towns of Aczib, 
Ummah, Aphek, and Rehob. Altogether there were 22 towns and their surrounding villages. 
Those cities and villages were within the land that was allotted to the clans of the tribe of Asher. 
The sixth/next tribe that was allotted land was the tribe of Naphtali. Each of the clans in that tribe was allotted some of the land. 
The border of their land started in the west at the huge oak tree at Zaanannim, near Heleph town. It extended east through Adami-Nekeb city and Jabneel, and then to Lakkum, and ended at the Jordan River. 
The western boundary extended through Aznoth-Tabor as far as Hukkok city. It extended to the borders of the tribe of Zebulun at the south, to the border of the tribe of Asher on the west, and the Jordan River at the east. 
Within their land were several cities with strong walls around them. They were Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Kinnereth, 
Adamah, Ramah, Hazor, 
Kedesh, Edrei, En-Hazor, 
Iron, Migdal-El, Horem, Beth-Anath, and Beth-Shemesh. Altogether there were 19 cities and the surrounding villages. 
Those cities and surrounding villages were in the land that was allotted to the clans of the tribe of Naphtali. 
The seventh/last tribe that was allotted land was the tribe of Dan. Each of the clans in that tribe was allotted some of the land. 
Their land included the towns of Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir-Shemesh, 
Shaalabbin, Aijalon, Ithlah, 
Elon, Timnah, Ekron, 
Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath, 
Jehud, Bene-Berak, Gath-Rimmon, 
Me-Jarkon, Rakkon, and the area near Joppa. 
But the people of the tribe of Dan were unable to take control of the land that had been allotted to them. So they went northeast and fought against the people in Leshem city. They defeated and killed all the people who lived there. Then they began to live in Leshem, and changed the name of the city to Dan, the man from whom their tribe descended. 
All of those towns and surrounding villages were in the land that was allotted to the clans in the tribe of Dan. 
After the Israeli leaders divided the land among the tribes, they allotted some land to Joshua. 
They allotted to him Timnath-Serah. Yahweh had said that he could have whatever city he wanted, and that was the city that he chose. It was in the hilly region which was allotted to the tribe of Ephraim. Joshua rebuilt the city and lived there. 
Those were the areas that were allotted to the various tribes of Israel. Eleazar the Supreme Priest and Joshua and the leaders of each tribe divided up the land while they were all at Shiloh, by ◄casting lots/throwing marked stones► to decide which area each tribe would receive. They did that while Yahweh was watching, at the entrance of the Sacred Tent. In that way they completed dividing up the land. 
