Proverbs.
Chapter 20.
Wine is a mocker, strong drink is noisy; and whosoever indulgeth therein will never be wise. 
Like the roaring of a young lion is the dread of a king: whoso provoketh him to anger sinneth against his own soul. 
It is an honor for a man to cease from a contest; but every fool enrageth himself. 
Because it is winter's cold, will the sluggard not plough: when he therefore seeketh in the harvest time, there will be nothing. 
Like deep water is counsel in the heart of man; but the man of understanding will draw it out. 
Most men will proclaim every one his own kindness; but who can find a faithful man? 
The righteous walketh in his integrity: happy will be his children after him. 
A king that sitteth on the throne of justice scattereth away with his eyes all evil. 
Who can say, I have made my heart pure, I am cleansed from my sin. 
Divers weights, and divers measures, are both of them alike an abomination of the Lord. 
Even a child maketh himself known by his doings, whether his work will be pure, and whether it will be upright. 
The ear that heareth, and the eye that seeth, the Lord hath made both of them alike. 
Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty: open thy eyes, so wilt thou be satisfied with bread. 
It is bad, it is bad, saith the buyer; but when he is gone his way, then doth he boast. 
There is gold, and a multitude of pearls; but a precious vessel are the lips of knowledge. 
Take away his garment, because he hath become surety for a stranger; and on account of a strange woman take a pledge from him. 
Bread of falsehood is pleasant to a man; but afterward his mouth will be filled with gravel-stones. 
Plans are established by counsel; and with wise reflection conduct war. 
He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets: therefore meddle not with him that enticeth with his lips. 
Whoso curseth his father or his mother—his lamp shall be quenched in obscure darkness. 
An inheritance hastily gotten at the beginning will at its end not be blessed, 
Do not say, I will recompense evil; but wait on the Lord, and he will help thee. 
Divers weights are an abomination of the Lord; and a deceitful balance is not good. 
From the Lord are the steps of man ordained; but man— how can he understand his own way? 
It is a snare to a man to sanctify things hastily, and to make inquiry only after having made vows. 
A wise king scattereth the wicked, and turneth over them the threshing-wheel. 
A lamp of the Lord is the soul of man, searching all the inner chambers of the body. 
Kindness and truth will watch over a king, and he will prop up through kindness his throne. 
The ornament of young men is their strength; and the glory of old men is a hoary head. 
The bruises of a wound are cleansing means for the bad, and stripes will reach the inner chambers of the body. 
