Nahum.
Chapter 2.
(2:2) The destroyer is come up against thee to enclose thee with works of siege: look out on the way, make thy loins strong, strengthen thyself greatly with power. 
(2:3) For the Lord bringeth back again the excellency of Jacob, as also the excellency of Israel; for the plunderers have plundered them, and have wasted branches of their vines. 
(2:4) The shields of his mighty men are made red, the valiant men are clothed in scarlet: with the fire of the steel the chariots glitter on the day when he prepareth himself for battle, and the spears are shaken. 
(2:5) In the streets the chariots rush madly along, they rattle through the public places: their appearance is like torches, they run along like the lightnings. 
(2:6) He will summon his valiant men, they shall stumble in their walk: they hasten to her walls, and the covering for defence is prepared. 
(2:7) The gates of the rivers are opened, and the palace is dissolved. 
(2:8) And the queen is carried away into exile stripped of her attire, and her maids moan as with the voice of doves, striking their hand upon their breast. 
(2:9) And Nineveh was like a pool of water from the days that she existed: yet now they flee. “Stand, stand,” shall they cry, but none shall look back. 
(2:10) Plunder silver, plunder gold; for without end are the treasures, there is an abundance of all precious vessels. 
(2:11) She is void, and emptied out, and wasted; and the heart melteth, and the knees totter, and trembling is in all loins, and the faces of them all are covered with blackness. 
(2:12) Where is now the dwelling of the lions, and what was the feeding-place of the young lions, where the lion, the lioness, and the lion's whelp walked, and none made them afraid? 
(2:13) The lion tore in pieces prey enough for his whelps, and strangled for his lionesses, and filled with prey his holes, and his dens with what he had torn. 
(2:14) Behold, I will be against thee, saith the Lord of hosts, and I will burn into smoke thy chariots, and thy young lions shall the sword devour: and I will cut off from the earth thy preying, and no more shall be heard the voice of thy messengers. 
