Joshua.
Chapter 14.
And these are the countries which the children of Israel obtained as an inheritance in the land of Canaan, which Elazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the divisions of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed for an inheritance unto them, 
By the lot as their inheritance: as the Lord had commanded by the hand of Moses, for the nine tribes, and the half tribe. 
For Moses had given the inheritance of the two tribes and the half tribe on the other side of the Jordan; but unto the Levites he had given no inheritance among them. 
For the children of Joseph were two tribes, Menasseh and Ephraim; therefore they gave no portion unto the Levites in the land, save cities to dwell in, with their open spaces for their cattle and for their substance. 
As the Lord had commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel, and so divided they the land. 
And the children of Judah came near unto Joshua in Gilgal; and Caleb the son of Yephunneh the Kenizzite said unto him, Thou well knowest the word which the Lord spoke unto Moses the man of God concerning me and thyself in Kadesh-barnea'. 
Forty years old was I when Moses the servant of the Lord sent me from Kadesh-barnea' to spy out the land; and I brought him word again as it was in my heart. 
But my brethren who had gone up with me caused the heart of the people to be faint; but I wholly followed the Lord my God. 
And Moses swore on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thy foot hath trodden shall belong to thee for an inheritance, and to thy children for ever; because thou hast wholly followed the Lord my God. 
And now, behold, the Lord hath kept me alive, as he hath spoken: it is now forty and five years since the Lord spoke this word unto Moses, while Israel wandered in the wilderness; and now, behold, I am this day eighty and five years old. 
I am yet this day as strong as I was on the day that Moses sent me: as my strength was then, even so is my strength now, for war, and to go out, and to come in. 
Now therefore give me this mountain, whereof the Lord spoke on that day; for thou didst hear on that day that the 'Anakim were there, and great fortified cities: perhaps the Lord will be with me, and I shall drive them out, as the Lord hath spoken. 
And Joshua blessed him, and gave Hebron unto Caleb the son of Yephunneh for an inheritance. 
Therefore did Hebron become the inheritance of Caleb the son of Yephunneh the Kenizzite unto this day; for the cause that he had wholly followed the Lord the God of Israel. 
And the name of Hebron was aforetimes Kiryatharba', who was the greatest man among the 'Anakim. And the land had rest from war. 
