Jeremiah.
Chapter 37.
And Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned as king in the place of Conyahu the son of Jehoyakim, whom Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon made king in the land of Judah. 
But neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, did hearken unto the words of the Lord, which he had spoken by means of Jeremiah the prophet. 
And king Zedekiah sent Jehuchal the son of Shelemyah and Zephanyahu the son of Ma'asseyah the priest unto Jeremiah the prophet, saying, Pray now in our behalf unto the Lord our God. 
Now Jeremiah came and went out among the people; and they put him not into the prison-house. 
But the army of Pharaoh was come forth out of Egypt: and when the Chaldeans that besieged Jerusalem heard the report of them, they withdrew from Jerusalem. 
Then came the word of the Lord unto Jeremiah the prophet, saying, 
Thus hath said the Lord, the God of Israel, Thus shall ye say to the king of Judah, that hath sent you unto me to inquire of me, Behold, Pharaoh's army, which is come forth to help you, returneth into its own land to Egypt. 
But the Chaldeans will come again, and fight against this city, and capture it, and burn it with fire. 
Thus hath said the Lord, Deceive not yourselves, saying, The Chaldeans will certainly go away from us; for they will not go away. 
For if even ye had smitten the whole army of the Chaldeans that fight against you, and there remained among them only such men as are pierced through: yet should they rise up, every man in his tent, and burn this city with fire. 
And it came to pass, when the army of the Chaldeans had withdrawn from Jerusalem because of the army of Pharaoh, 
That Jeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin, to make his escape thence in the midst of the people. 
But as he was in the gate of Benjamin, there was there a captain of the guardsmen, whose name was Yiriyah, the son of Shelemyah, the son of Chananyah; and he seized hold of Jeremiah the prophet, saying, Thou runnest away to the Chaldeans. 
But Jeremiah said, It is false; I am not running away to the Chaldeans. But he listened not to him; and Yiriyah seized hold of Jeremiah, and brought him to the princes. 
Thereupon were the princes wroth with Jeremiah, and struck him, and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe; for that had they made into a prison-house. 
When Jeremiah had been placed in the dungeon, within the traders' shops, where Jeremiah remained many days: 
King Zedekiah sent, and had him taken out, and the king asked him in his house in secret, and said, “Is there any word from the Lord?” And Jeremiah said, “There is:” and he said, Into the hand of the king of Babylon shalt thou be given up. 
And Jeremiah said unto king Zedekiah, What have I sinned against thee, and against thy servants, and against this people, that ye have put me into the prison-house? 
And where are now your prophets who have prophesied unto you, saying, The king of Babylon will not come against you, and against this land? 
Yet now, do but hear, I pray thee, O my lord the king: let me offer my humble supplication, I pray thee, before thee, that thou wilt not make me return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there. 
Then commanded king Zedekiah that they should put Jeremiah in ward in the court of the prison, and that they should give him a loaf of bread for every day out of the bakers' street, until all the bread was spent out of the city. Thus Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison. 
