Zephaniah.
Chapter 3.
Woe to her that is rebellious and polluted, to the oppressing city! 
She hearkened not to any voice; she accepted no correction; in the Lord she did not trust; to her God she drew not near. 
Her princes in her midst are roaring lions: her judges are evening wolves, they leave not a bone for the morning. 
Her prophets are thoughtless men of treachery: her priests have profaned the sanctuary, they have done violence to the law. 
The just Lord is in her midst, he will not do wrong; morning after morning doth he bring his justice to the light of day, it never faileth; but the unjust knoweth no shame. 
I have cut off nations; destroyed are their battlements; I have laid in ruins their streets, so that none passeth through; their cities are wasted, without a man, without an inhabitant. 
I said, Surely thou wilt fear me, thou wilt accept correction; so that her dwelling should not be cut off, all that I had decreed to bring over her; but they rose up early, they acted corruptly in all their doings. 
Therefore wait but for me, saith the Lord, for the day that I rise up to the prey; for my judgment cometh to gather the nations, for me to assemble the kingdoms, to pour over them my indignation, all the fierceness of my anger; for through the fire of my jealousy shall all the earth be devoured. 
Yea then will I change unto the people a pure language, that they may all call on the name of the Lord, to serve him with one accord. 
From beyond the rivers of Cush shall they bring my suppliants, even the assembly of my dispersed, as an offering unto me. 
On that day shalt thou not be ashamed because of all thy doings, whereby thou hast transgressed against me; for then will I remove out of the midst of thee those that rejoice in thy pride, and thou shalt never more be haughty again on my holy mount. 
And I will leave remaining in the midst of thee a humble and poor people, and they shall trust in the name of the Lord. 
The remnant of Israel shall not do injustice, nor speak lies; and there shall not be found in their mouth a deceitful tongue; for they shall feed and lie down, with none to make them afraid. 
Sing, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel; rejoice and be glad with all thy heart, O daughter of Jerusalem! 
The Lord hath removed thy punishment, he hath cleared away thy enemy: the king of Israel, the Lord, is in the midst of thee; thou shalt not see evil any more. 
On that day shall it be said to Jerusalem, Fear thou not: to Zion, Let not thy hands become weak. 
The Lord thy God is in the midst of thee, the mighty one who will save; he will be glad over thee with rejoicing; he will be silent in his love, he will exult over thee with song. 
Those that mourn far away from the festive assembly do I gather, those that were separated from thee, that have borne for thee the burden of reproach. 
Behold, I will deal severely with all that afflict thee at that time: and I will save her that halteth, and her that was driven off will I gather; and I will render them a praise and a famous name on all the earth where they have been put to shame. 
At that time will I bring you back, even in the time that I gather you; for I will make you for a name and for a praise among all people of the earth, when I bring back again your captives before your eyes, saith the Lord. 
