Joshua.
Chapter 23.
And it came to pass after many days, after the Lord had given rest unto Israel from all their enemies round about, and Joshua had grown old and was well stricken in age, 
That Joshua called for all Israel, for their elders, and for their heads, and for their judges, and for their officers, and said unto them, I am become old and well stricken in age; 
And ye have yourselves seen all that the Lord your God hath done unto all these nations, because of you; for the Lord your God it is that hath fought for you. 
Behold, I have divided unto you by lot those nations that yet remain, to be an inheritance according to your tribes, from the Jordan, with all the nations that I have cut off, as far as the great sea, toward the setting of the sun. 
And the Lord your God will indeed expel them from before you, and drive them out from before you; and ye shall possess their land, as the Lord your God hath spoken unto you. 
But be ye very steadfast to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, so as not to turn aside therefrom to the right or to the left; 
So as not to come among these nations, those that are left remaining near you; and of the name of their gods shall ye not make mention, nor cause any to swear thereby, neither shall ye serve them, nor bow yourselves down unto them; 
But unto the Lord your God shall ye cleave, as ye have done unto this day. 
And the Lord drove out from before you great and mighty nations; but as for you, no man hath been able to stand up before you unto this day. 
One man of you can chase a thousand; for the Lord your God it is that fighteth for you, as he hath spoken unto you. 
Take good heed therefore for your souls' sake, to love the Lord your God. 
For if ye do in any wise turn back, and cleave unto the remnant of these nations, those that are left remaining near you, and make marriages with them, and come in among them, and they among you: 
Know for a certainty that the Lord your God will no more drive out these nations from before you; but they shall be snares and traps unto you, and scourges in your sides, and stings in your eyes, until ye perish from off this good land which the Lord your God hath given you. 
And, behold, I am going this day the way of all the earth; and ye know with all your heart and with all your soul, that not one thing hath failed of all the good things which the Lord your God spoke concerning you: all are come to pass unto you, not one thing thereof hath failed. 
But it shall come to pass, that as every good thing is come upon you, which the Lord your God spoke unto you: so will the Lord bring upon you every evil thing, until he have destroyed you from off this good land which the Lord your God hath given unto you. 
When ye transgress the covenant of the Lord your God, which he hath commanded you, and go and serve other gods, and bow yourselves down to them: then will the anger of the Lord be kindled against you, and ye shall perish quickly from off the good land which he hath given unto you. 
