Proverbs.
Chapter 8.
Behold, wisdom calleth, and understanding sendeth forth her voice, 
On the top of high places, by the wayside, at the house where there are many paths doth she place herself. 
Alongside of gates, at the opening of the city, at the entrance of the town-doors doth she call loudly, 
Unto you, O men, I call, and my voice goeth forth to the sons of men, 
Learn, O ye simple, to understand prudence: and, ye fools, be ye of an understanding heart. 
Hear! for of noble things will I speak; and the opening of my lips shall be of what is equitable. 
For truth uttereth my palate ever, and the abomination of my lips is wickedness. 
In righteousness are all the sayings of my mouth, there is in them nothing crooked or perverse. 
They are all evident to the man of understanding, and correct to those that have obtained knowledge. 
Accept my correction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than choice gold. 
For wisdom is better than pearls; and all the things that men wish for are not equal to her. 
I wisdom dwell with prudence, and the knowledge of discreet thoughts do I discover. 
The fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride and arrogance, and the evil way: and the mouth of perverseness do I hate. 
Mine are counsel and sound wisdom: I am understanding; mine is might. 
Through me do kings reign, and chieftains give decrees in righteousness. 
Through me do princes rule, and the nobles, even all the judges of the earth. 
I indeed love those that love me: and those that seek me earnestly shall find me. 
Riches and honor are with me, yea, enduring wealth and righteousness. 
My fruit is better than gold, and than fine gold; and my products, than choice silver. 
On the road of righteousness do I walk firmly, in the midst the paths of justice: 
That I may cause those that love me to inherit a lasting possession; and their treasures will I fill 
The Lord created me as the beginning of his way, the first of his works from the commencement, 
From eternity was I appointed chief, from the beginning, from the earliest times of the earth. 
When there were yet no depths, was I brought forth; when there were yet no springs laden heavily with water. 
Before the mountains were yet sunk down, before the hills was I brought forth: 
While as yet he had not made the land and open fields, nor the chief of the dust of the world. 
When he prepared the heavens, I was there; when he drew a circle over the face of the deep; 
When he fastened the skies above; when the springs of the deep became strong; 
When he assigned to the sea his decree, that the waters should not transgress his order: when he established firmly the foundations of the earth: 
Then was I near him, as a nursling: and I was day by day his delights, playing before him at all times; 
Playing in the world, his earth; and having my delights with the sons of men. 
And now, O children of men, hearken unto me! for happy those that observe my ways. 
Hear correction, and be wise, and reject it not. 
Happy is the man that hearkeneth unto me, watching day by day at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors. 
For he who findeth me findeth life, and he obtaineth favor from the Lord. 
But he that sinneth against me doth violence to his own soul: all those that hate me love death. 
