Psalms.
Chapter 106.
Hallelujah. Oh give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good: for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? who can publish all his praise? 
Happy are those that observe justice, that execute righteousness at all times. 
Remember me, O Lord, when thou favorest thy people: oh visit me with thy salvation; 
That I may look on the happiness of thy elect, that I may rejoice in the joy of thy nation, that I may glorify myself with thy inheritance. 
We have sinned together with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly. 
Our fathers did not reflect on thy wonders in Egypt: they remembered not the multitude of thy kindnesses; but rebelled at the sea, even at the Red Sea. 
Nevertheless he saved them for the sake of his name, to make known his might. 
He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up; and he led them through the depths, as through the wilderness. 
And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. 
And the waters covered their adversaries: not one of them was left. 
Then believed they in his words, they sang his praise. 
Speedily they forgot his works, they waited not for his counsel; 
And they felt a lustful longing in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert. 
And he gave them what they had asked; but sent dryness into their soul. 
Moreover they envied Moses in the camp, and Aaron the holy one of the Lord. 
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered over the company of Abiram. 
And a fire was kindled in their company: the flame burnt up the wicked. 
They made a calf in Horeb, and bowed themselves down to a molten image. 
And they exchanged their glory for the similitude of an ox that eateth herbs. 
They forgot God their saviour, who had done great things in Egypt, 
Wonders in the land of Ham, terrible things by the Red Sea. 
He therefore spoke of destroying them: had not Moses his elect stood in the breach before him, to turn away his fury, that he might not destroy. 
And they despised the pleasant land, they believed not in his word; 
But they murmured in their tents, they hearkened not unto the voice of the Lord. 
He therefore lifted up his hand against them, to cause them to fall in the wilderness; 
And to let their seed fall among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands. 
And they joined themselves unto Ba'al-pe'or, and ate the sacrifices of the dead. 
And they provoked him to anger with their deeds: and there broke in among them the plague. 
Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment: and the plague was stayed. 
And it was accounted unto him for righteousness, unto all generations for evermore. 
They angered him also at the waters of Meribah, and evil happened to Moses for their sake; 
Because they had embittered his spirit, and so he spoke thoughtlessly with his lips. 
They did not exterminate the nations, that the Lord had indicated to them; 
But they mingled themselves among the nations, and learned their doings. 
And they served their idols, and these became unto them a snare. 
Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto the evil spirits; 
And they shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan: and the land was polluted with blood-guiltiness. 
Thus were they made unclean through their own doings, and went astray with their own deeds. 
therefore was the wrath of the Lord kindled against his people, and be felt disgust for his own inheritance. 
And he gave them up into the hand of the nations: and there ruled over them those that hated them. 
And their enemies also oppressed them: and they were subdued under their hand. 
Many times did he deliver them; but they rebelled with their counsel, and they were brought low through their iniquity. 
Nevertheless he looked on when they were in distress, when he heard their entreaty. 
And he remembered unto them his covenant, and he bethought himself according to the abundance of his kindnesses; 
And be caused them to find mercy before all those that had carried them away captive. 
Save us, O Lord our God, and gather us from among the nations, to give thanks unto thy holy name, to triumph in thy praise. 
Blessed be the Lord the God of Israel from everlasting even to everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen, Hallelujah. 
