Leviticus.
Chapter 9.
And it came to pass on the eighth day that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel; 
And he said unto Aaron, Take unto thyself a young calf for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering, without blemish, and bring them near before the Lord. 
And unto the children of Israel shalt thou speak, saying, Take ye a he-goat for a sin-offering; and a calf and a sheep, both of the first year, without blemish, for a burnt-offering; 
Also a bullock and a ram for peace-offerings, to sacrifice before the Lord, and a meat-offering mingled with oil; for this day the Lord will appear unto you. 
And they brought that which Moses had commanded before the tabernacle of the congregation: and all the congregation drew near and stood before the Lord. 
And Moses said, This thing which the Lord hath commanded shall ye do: and then will the glory of the Lord appear unto you. 
And Moses said unto Aaron, Draw near unto the altar, and prepare thy sin-offering, and thy burnt-offering, and make an atonement for thyself, and for the people; and prepare the offering of the people, and make an atonement for them; as the Lord hath commanded. 
And Aaron drew near unto the altar; and he slew the calf of the sin-offering, which was for himself. 
And the sons of Aaron brought the blood unto him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar; and the remaining blood he poured out at the bottom of the altar. 
And the fat, and the kidneys, and the midriff from the liver of the sin-offering, he burnt upon the altar; as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And the flesh and the hide he burnt with fire without the camp. 
And he slew the burnt-offering; and the sons of Aaron presented unto him the blood, and he sprinkled it upon the altar round about. 
And the burnt-offering they presented unto him, in its proper pieces, together with the head: and he burnt them upon the altar. 
And he washed the inwards and the legs; and he burnt them upon the burnt-offering on the altar. 
And he brought near the people's offering; and he took the goat of the sin-offering which belonged to the people, and slew it, and made atonement with its blood, as the first. 
And he brought near the burnt-offering, and offered it according to the prescribed manner. 
And he brought near the meat-offering, and he filled his hand thereof, and burnt it upon the altar, beside the burnt-sacrifice of the morning. 
He slew also the bullock and the ram, the sacrifice of peace-offering which belonged to the people: and the sons of Aaron presented unto him the blood, and he sprinkled it upon the altar round about, 
Also the fat of the bullock, and of the ram, the rump, and that which covereth the inwards, and the kidneys, and the midriff of the liver; 
And they put these pieces of fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar; 
And with the breasts and the right shoulder Aaron made a waving before the Lord; as Moses had commanded. 
And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them; and came down after he had offered the sin-offering, and the burnt-offering, and peace-offerings. 
And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the congregation, and came then out, and blessed the people: and the glory of the Lord appeared unto all the people. 
And there came forth a fire from before the Lord, and consumed upon the altar the burnt-offering and the fat; and when all the people saw this, they shouted, and fell on their faces. 
