Zechariah.
Chapter 12.
The prophecy of the word of the Lord concerning Israel, Saith the Lord, who stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth the foundation of the earth, and formeth the spirit of man within him: 
Behold, I will make Jerusalem a cup of confusion unto all the people round about; and also against Judah, who will have to be at the siege against Jerusalem. 
And it shall come to pass on that day that I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all the people; all that burden themselves with it shall be severely cut: yet then will be gathered together against it all the nations of the earth. 
On that day, saith the Lord, will I smite every horse with dizziness, and his rider with madness; but over the house of Judah will I open my eyes, while I will smite every horse of the people with blindness. 
And the chiefs of Judah will say in their heart, A strong support for me are the inhabitants of Jerusalem through the Lord of hosts their God. 
On that day will I make the chiefs of Judah like a fire-hearth among the wood, and like a torch of fire among sheaves; and they shall devour on the right hand and on the left all the people round about; and Jerusalem shall be inhabited again in her own place, even in Jerusalem. 
The Lord also will save the tents of Judah first: in order that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem shall not become boastful over Judah. 
On that day will the Lord be a shield around the inhabitants of Jerusalem: and the feeblest among them shall be on that day like David; and the house of David shall be like divine beings, like an angel of the Lord before them. 
And it shall come to pass on that day, that I will seek to destroy all the nations that are come against Jerusalem. 
But I will pour out over the house of David, and over the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplications: and they will look up toward me for every one whom they have thrust through, and they will lament for him, as one lamenteth for an only son, and weep bitterly for him, as one weepeth bitterly for the first-born. 
On that day will the lamentation be great in Jerusalem, like the lamentation at Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddon. 
And the land will mourn, every family apart by itself: the family of the house of David apart, and their wives apart; the family of the house of Nathan apart, and their wives apart; 
The family of the house of Levi apart, and their wives apart; the family of Shim'i apart, and their wives apart; 
All the families that remain, every family apart by itself, and their wives apart. 
