Jeremiah.
Chapter 3.
One could say, Behold, if a man send away his wife, and she go from him, and become another man's, can he return unto her again? would not that land be greatly polluted? and thou hast played the harlot with many companions, and wilt yet return to me, saith the Lord. 
Lift up thy eyes unto the mountain-tops, and see where thou hast not been lain with. On public roads hast thou sat for them, as the Arab in the wilderness; and thou hast polluted the land with thy incests and with thy wickedness. 
And though the early showers were withholden, and the latter rain came not: yet hadst thou a forehead of an incestuous wife, thou refusedst to feel shame. 
Wilt thou not from this time call out unto mem My father, the guide of my youth art thou? 
Will he bear grudge for ever? will he keep it to eternity? Behold, thou hast spoken this, and yet hast done the things that are evil as much as thou wast able. 
And the Lord said unto me in the days of Josiah the king, Hast thou seen what backsliding Israel hath done? she is gone upon every high mountain and under every green tree, and hath played the harlot there. 
And I thought that after she had done all these things, she would return unto me. But she returned not. And this saw her treacherous sister Judah. 
And I saw, that, although because backsliding Israel had committed adultery, I had sent her away, and given her bill of divorce unto her, still treacherous Judah her sister feared not, but went and played herself the harlot also. 
And it came to pass through her giddy incest, that she defiled the land, and committed adultery with stone and with wood. 
And yet with all this her treacherous sister Judah hath not returned unto me with all her heart, but with falsehood, saith the Lord. 
And the Lord said unto me, The backsliding Israel hath justified herself through the treacherous Judah. 
Go and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, Return, thou backsliding Israel, saith the Lord: I will not cause my anger to fall upon you; for I am full of kindness, saith the Lord, I will not hear grudge for ever. 
Only acknowledge thy iniquity, that against the Lord thy God thou hast rebelled, and hast scattered thy ways to the strangers under every green tree, and that unto my voice ye have not hearkened, saith the Lord. 
Return, O backsliding children, saith the Lord; for I am become your husband; and I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and bring you to Zion: 
And I will give you shepherds after my own heart, and they shall feed you with knowledge and intelligence. 
And it shall come to pass, when ye multiply and increase in the land, in those days, saith the Lord, that men shall not say any more, “The ark of the covenant of the Lord;” nor shall it come any more to mind; nor shall they remember it; nor shall they mention it; nor shall any thing be done any more with it. 
At that time shall they call Jerusalem, The throne of the Lord; and all the nations shall be gathered unto it, to the name of the Lord, to Jerusalem: and they shall not walk any more after the stubbornness of their evil heart. 
In those days shall the house of Judah walk with the house of Israel, and they shall come together out of the land of the north unto the land that I have given for an inheritance unto your fathers. 
But I had thought, How shall I establish thee among the other sons of man, and give thee a desirable land, a heritage of glory of the hosts of nations? and I thought, My father thou wouldst call me, and that from me thou wouldst not turn away. 
But truly as a wife treacherously departeth from her husband, so have ye dealt treacherously with me, O house of Israel, saith the Lord. 
A voice is now heard upon the mountain-tops, the supplicatory weeping of the children of Israel; for they have perverted their way, they have forgotten the Lord their God. 
Return, ye backsliding children, I will heal your backslidings. “Behold, we come unto thee; for thou art the Lord our God. 
Truly deceptive was what we hoped for from the hills, and the multitude on the mountains; truly in the Lord our God is the salvation of Israel. 
And shame hath devoured the acquisition of our fathers from our youth, their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters. 
We lie down in our shame, and our confusion covereth us; for against the Lord our God have we sinned, we and our fathers, from our youth even until this day; and we have not hearkened to the voice of the Lord our God.” 
