Isaiah.
Chapter 63.
Who is this that cometh from Edom, dyed red in his garments from Bozrah? this—glorious in his apparel, moving along in the greatness of his strength? “I who speak in righteousness, mighty to save.” 
Why is redness on thy apparel, and why are thy garments as of one that treadeth the wine-press? 
“I have trodden the vat alone, and of the nations there was no man with me; and I trod them down in my anger, and I trampled on them in my fury; and their blood was sprinkled on my garments, and all my raiments have I stained. 
For the day of vengeance was in my heart, and the year of my redeemed was come. 
And I looked, and there was no one to help, and I was astonished, and there was no one to support; and then my own arm aided me, and my fury—this it was that upheld me. 
And I stamped down nations in my anger, and I made them drunken with my fury, and brought down to the earth their victorious strength.” 
The kindnesses of the Lord will I mention, the praises of the Lord, in accordance with all that the Lord hath bestowed on us, and the abundant goodness toward the house of Israel, which he hath bestowed on them according to his mercies, and the abundance of his kindnesses. 
And he said, Surely they are my people, children that will not lie; and he became to them a Saviour. 
In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them; in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; and he bore them, and he carried them all the days of old. 
But they rebelled, and grieved his holy Spirit; and he changed himself to become their enemy, and he fought against them. 
Then remembered his people the ancient days of Moses, Where is he that brought them up out of the sea with the shepherd of his flock? where is he that put within him his holy Spirit? 
That displayed by the right hand of Moses his glorious arm; that divided the water before them, to make unto himself an everlasting name? 
That led them through the deeps, as a horse through the wilderness, that they should not stumble? 
As a beast goeth down into the valley, so did the spirit of the Lord bring them to rest; thus didst thou guide thy people, to make unto thyself a glorious name. 
Look down from heaven, and behold, from the habitation of thy holiness and of thy glory: where are thy zeal and thy mights, the yearning of thy bowels and of thy mercy which are now restrained from me? 
For thou art our father; for Abraham knoweth nothing of us, and Israel recogniseth us not: thou, O Lord, art our father, our Redeemer from everlasting is thy name. 
Why hast thou let us go astray, O Lord, from thy ways, suffered our heart to be hardened against thy fear? Return for the sake of thy servants, the tribes of thy heritage. 
But a brief space were thy holy people in possession, when our adversaries trod down thy sanctuary. 
We are become as though we are those over whom thou hast never ruled, over whom thy name hath not been called. 
