Exodus.
Chapter 25.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Speak unto the children of Israel, that they may bring me an offering; from every man whose heart prompteth him thereto shall ye take my offering. 
And this is the offering which ye shall take from them: gold, and silver, and copper, 
And blue, and purple, and scarlet yarn, and linen thread, and goats' hair, 
And rams' skins died red, and badgers' skins, and shittim wood, 
Oil for lighting, spices for the anointing oil, and for the incense of spices, 
Onyx stones, and stones for setting, for the ephod, and for the breastplate. 
And they shall make me a sanctuary; and I will dwell in the midst of them. 
In accordance with all that I show thee, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the instruments thereof, even so shall ye make it. 
And they shall make an ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a half shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height. 
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it; and thou shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about. 
And thou shalt cast for it four rings of gold, and put them on the four corners thereof; namely, two rings shall be on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it. 
And thou shalt make staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold. 
And thou shalt place the staves into the rings, upon the sides of the ark, that the ark may be borne with them. 
In the rings of the ark shall the staves remain: they shall not be removed therefrom. 
And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I will give unto thee. 
And thou shalt make a cover of pure gold; two cubits and a half shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth. 
And thou shalt make two cherubim of gold, of beaten work shalt thou make them, on the two ends of the cover. 
And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the other end; from the cover itself shall ye make the cherubim on the two ends thereof. 
And the cherubim shall be spreading forth their wings on high, overshadowing the cover with their wings, with their faces turned one to the other; toward the cover shall the faces of the cherubim be directed. 
And thou shalt put the cover above upon the ark; and in the ark shalt thou put the testimony which I will give unto thee. 
And I will meet with thee there, and I will speak with thee from above the cover, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, all that which I will command thee unto the children of Israel. 
Thou shalt also make a table of shittim wood; two cubits shall be its length, and a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height. 
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about. 
And thou shalt make unto it a rim of a hand's breadth round about; and thou shalt make a golden crown on its rim round about. 
And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and thou shalt put the rings on the four corners that are on its four feet. 
Close under the rim shall the rings be; as receptacles for the staves, to bear the table. 
And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold; and the table shall be borne with them. 
And thou shalt make its dishes, and its spoons, and its supporters, and its purifying tubes, wherewith the bread is to be covered: of pure gold shalt thou make them. 
And thou shalt set upon the table show-bread before me always. 
And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work shall the candlestick be made; its shaft, and its branches, its bowls, its knobs, and its flowers, shall be out of one piece with it. 
And six branches shall come out of its sides; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side. 
Three bowls, almond-shaped, shall be on one branch, with a knob and a flower; and three bowls, almond-shaped, on the other branch, with a knob and a flower: so on the six branches that come out of the candlestick. 
And on the candlestick itself shall be four bowls, almond-shaped, with its knobs and its flowers. 
And there shall be a knob under the two branches that come out of the same, and a knob under the two branches that come out of the same, and a knob under the two branches that come out of the same; for the six branches that proceed out of the candlestick. 
Their knobs and their branches shall be out of one piece with it; all of it shall be one piece of beaten work of pure gold. 
And thou shalt make its seven lamps; and when they light its lamps, it shall give light toward the body of it. 
And its tongs, and its snuff-dishes shall be of pure gold. 
Out of a talent of pure gold shall he make it, with all these vessels. 
And look that thou make them after their pattern, which thou wast shown on the mount. 
