Job.
Chapter 29.
And Job continued to take up his parable, and said, 
Who will give me back months like those which are past, days like those when God guarded me; 
When his lamp shone over my head, when by his light I could walk in darkness; 
As I was in the days of my abundance, when the confidence of God was upon my tent: 
When the Almighty was yet with me, when my servants stood round about me; 
When I bathed my steps in cream, and the rock poured out near me streamlets of oil! 
When I went out to the gate close by the city, when in the open place I established my seat: 
Young men saw me, and hid themselves; and the aged rose up, and remained standing; 
Princes stopped in the midst of their words, and laid their hand on their mouth: 
The voice of nobles was arrested, and their tongue cleaved to their palate. 
For the ear that heard me called me happy; and the eye that saw me bore witness for me; 
Because I delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, yea, that had none to help him. 
The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me; and the heart of the widow I caused to sing for joy. 
I took righteousness as my garment, and it clothed me: as a robe and a mitre was justice unto me. 
Eyes was I to the blind; and feet to the lame was I. 
A father was I to the needy; and the cause of him I knew not I used to investigate. 
And I broke the cutting-teeth of the wrong-doer, and out of his teeth I cast down his prey. 
And I said then, “In the midst of my nest shall I depart hence, and like the sand shall I have many days. 
My root will stand open for the water, and the dew will lodge on my boughs. 
My glory will ever be new with me, and my bow will acquire fresh strength in my hand.” 
Unto me men listened, and waited, and watched in silence for my counsel 
After my words they made no reply, and my speech dropped on them like dew. 
And they waited for me as for the rain, and they opened wide their mouth as for the latter rain. 
I smiled on those that had lost their confidence; and the light of my countenance they never cast down. 
I chose their way for them, and I sat as chief, and dwelt as king in his army, as one that comforteth mourners. 
