Leviticus.
Chapter 10.
And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took each his censer, and they put therein fire, and put thereon incense: and they brought near before the Lord a strange fire, which he had not commanded them. 
And there went out a fire from before the Lord, and consumed them, and they died before the Lord. 
Then said Moses unto Aaron, This is what the Lord hath spoken, saying, On those who are near unto me will I be sanctified, and before all the people will I be glorified: and Aaron held his peace. 
And Moses called unto Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of 'Uzziel, the uncle of Aaron, and said unto them, Come near, carry your brethren from before the sanctuary to without the camp. 
And they came near, and carried them in their coats to without the camp; as Moses had spoken. 
And Moses said unto Aaron, and unto Elazar and unto Ithamar, his sons, The hair of your head you shall not let grow long, and your garments you shall not rend, that ye die not, and that he be not wroth upon the whole congregation; but your brethren, the whole house of Israel, may bewail the burning which the Lord hath kindled. 
And from the door of the tabernacle of the congregation shall ye not go out, lest ye die; for the anointing oil of the Lord is upon you; and they did according to the word of Moses. 
And the Lord spoke unto Aaron, saying, 
Wine or strong drink shalt thou not drink, neither thou, nor thy sons with thee, when ye go in unto the tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations. 
So that ye may be able to distinguish between the holy and the unholy, and between the unclean and the clean; 
And that ye may be able to teach the children of Israel all the statutes which the Lord hath spoken unto them by the hand of Moses. 
And Moses spoke unto Aaron, and unto Elazar and unto Ithamar his sons, that were left, Take ye the meat-offering that is left of the fire-offerings of the Lord, and eat it unleavened beside the altar; for it is most holy. 
And ye shall eat it in a holy place, because it is thy fixed portion, and the fixed portion of thy sons, from the fire-offerings of the Lord; for so have I been commanded. 
And the breast which hath been waved and the shoulder which hath been lifted up, shall ye eat in a clean place, thou, and thy sons, and thy daughters with thee; for as thy fixed portion, and the fixed portion of thy sons, have they been given from the sacrifices of peace-offerings of the children of Israel. 
The shoulder which is waved and the breast which is lifted up, shall they bring with the fat of the fire-offering, to make therewith a waving before the Lord: and then shall it be thine, and thy sons with thee, as a fixed portion for ever; as the Lord hath commanded. 
And the goat of the sin-offering Moses sought diligently, and behold, it was burnt: and he was angry with Elazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron who had been left, and said, 
Wherefore have ye not eaten the sin-offering in the holy place, seeing that it is most holy, and that he hath given it to you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before the Lord? 
Behold, its blood was not brought within the holy place: ye should then have eaten it in the holy place, as I commanded. 
And Aaron spoke unto Moses, Behold, this day have they offered their sin-offering, and their burnt-offering before the Lord; and things as these have befallen me: and if I had eaten the sin-offering today, would it have been pleasing in the eyes of the Lord? 
And when Moses heard this, it was pleasing in his eyes. 
