Joel.
Chapter 1.
The word of the Lord that came to Joel the son of Pethuel. 
Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land. Did ever such a thing as this come to pass in your days, or ever in the days of your fathers? 
Tell ye of it to your children, and let your children tell it to their children, and their children to another generation. 
What the caterpillar left hath the locust eaten; and what the locust left hath the cankerworm eaten; and that which the cankerworm left hath the cricket eaten. 
Wake up, ye drunkards, and weep; and wail, all ye drinkers of wine, because of the sweet new wine, that it is taken away from your mouth. 
For a nation is come up over my land, strong, and without number; its teeth are the teeth of a lion, and it hath the cutting-teeth of the lioness. 
It hath laid my vine waste, and barked my fig-tree: it hath peeled it clean bare, and cast it down; made white are its light branches. 
Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the betrothed of her youth. 
Cut off are the meat-offering and the drink-offering from the house of the Lord: now mourn the priests, the ministers of the Lord. 
Wasted is the field, the land mourneth; for wasted is the corn: dried up is the new wine, withered is the oil. 
Be ashamed, O ye husbandmen; wail, O ye vinedressers, for the wheat and for the barley; because lost is the harvest of the field. 
The vine is made ashamed, and the fig-tree is withered; the pomegranate-tree, the palm-tree also, and the apple-tree, even all the trees of the field, are dried up; because joy hath ceased from the children of men. 
Gird yourselves with sackcloth, and lament, ye priests; wail, ye ministers of the altar: come, remain all night in sackcloth, ye ministers of my God; for there are withholden from the house of your God the meat-offering and the drink-offering. 
Sanctify ye a fast, proclaim a solemn assembly, gather the elders, all the inhabitants of the land, into the house of the Lord your God, and cry aloud unto the Lord. 
Alas for the day! for the day of the Lord is at hand, and like destruction from the Almighty will it come. 
Is not before our eyes the food cut off, from the house of our God joy and gladness? 
The grains of seed are rotten under their clods, laid desolate are the garners, pulled down are the barns; for the corn is dried up. 
How do the beasts groan! how do the herds of cattle roam about; because there is no pasture for them: yea, the flocks of sheep are made to perish. 
To thee O Lord, will I cry; for the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and the flame hath singed all the trees of the field. 
Also the beasts of the field cry unto thee panting; for the brooks of waters are dried up, and a fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness. 
