Exodus.
Chapter 40.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
On the first day of the first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation. 
And thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony, and separate the ark with the vail. 
And thou shalt bring in the table, and arrange the order of the showbread upon it; and thou shalt bring in the candlestick, and light the lamps thereof. 
And thou shalt set the altar of gold for the incense before the ark of the testimony; and thou shalt put up the hanging at the door to the tabernacle. 
And thou shalt set the altar of burnt-offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation. 
And thou shalt set the laver between the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar, and thou shalt put water therein. 
And thou shalt set up the court round about, and put up the hanging at the gate of the court. 
And thou shalt take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle, and all that is therein; and thou shalt hallow it, with all its vessels, and it shall be holy. 
And thou shalt anoint the altar of burnt-offering, and all its vessels; and thou shalt sanctify the altar, and the altar shall be most holy. 
And thou shalt anoint the laver with its foot, and sanctify it. 
And thou shalt bring near Aaron and his sons unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and wash them with water. 
And thou shalt clothe Aaron with the holy garments; and thou shalt anoint him, and sanctify him, that he may be a priest unto me. 
And his sons shalt thou bring near, and clothe them with coats: 
And thou shalt anoint them, as thou hast anointed their father, that they may be priests unto me; and this shall be, that their anointing shall be unto them for an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations. 
And Moses did so; all, just as the Lord had commanded him, so did he. 
And it came to pass in the first month in the second year, on the first of the month, that the tabernacle was reared up. 
And Moses reared up the tabernacle, and placed its sockets, and set up its boards, and put in its bars, and reared up its pillars. 
And he spread the tent over the tabernacle, and put the covering of the tent over it above; as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And he took and put the testimony into the ark, and placed the staves on the ark; and he put the mercy-seat upon the ark above. 
And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the vail of the separation, and made therewith a separation for the ark of the testimony; as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And he put the table in the tabernacle of the congregation, upon the side of the tabernacle, northward, without the vail. 
And he arranged upon it the order of bread before the Lord; as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And he placed the candlestick in the tabernacle of the congregation, opposite the table, on the side of the tabernacle, southward. 
And he lighted the lamps before the Lord; as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And he placed the golden altar in the tabernacle of the congregation before the vail. 
And he burnt thereon the incense of spices; as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And he put up the hanging at the door to the tabernacle. 
And the altar of burnt-offering he placed by the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation; and he offered upon it the burnt-offering and the meat-offering; as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And he set the laver between the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar, and put water there, for washing. 
And Moses and Aaron and his sons washed therefrom their hands and their feet. 
When they went in unto the tabernacle of the congregation, and when they came near unto the altar, they washed themselves; as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And he reared up the court round about the tabernacle and the altar, and put up the hanging of the gate of the court; and so did Moses finish the work. 
And the cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. 
And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation; because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. 
And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel were wont to go onward in all their journeyings. 
But if the cloud was not taken up, then they journeyed not till the day that is was taken up. 
For the cloud of the Lord was upon the tabernacle by day, and a fire was by night on it, before the eyes of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeyings. 
