Deuteronomy.
Chapter 5.
And Moses called all Israel, and said unto them, Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the ordinances which I speak in your ears this day, that ye may learn them, and that ye may observe to do them. 
The Lord our God made a covenant with us in Horeb. 
Not with our fathers did the Lord make this covenant, but with us, we who are here all of us alive this day. 
Face to face did the Lord speak with you on the mount, out of the midst of the fire, 
(I was standing between the Lord and between you at that time, to announce to you the word of the Lord; for ye were afraid by reason of the fire, and ye went not up into the mount;) saying, 
I am the Lord thy God, who have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of slavery. 
Thou shalt have no other gods before me. 
Thou shalt not make unto thyself any graven image, any likeness of any thing that is in the heavens above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth: 
Thou shalt not bow thyself down unto them, nor serve them; for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon the third and upon the fourth generation of them that hate me, 
And showing kindness unto the thousandth generation of them that love me, and keep my commandments. 
Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. 
Keep the sabbath-day to sanctify it, as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee. 
Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work; 
But the seventh day is the sabbath in honor of the Lord thy God; on it thou shalt not do any work, neither thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy man-servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thy ox, nor thy ass, nor any of thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: in order that thy man-servant and thy maid-servant may rest as well as thou. 
And thou shalt remember that thou hast been a servant in the land of Egypt, and that the Lord thy God brought thee out from there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm; therefore hath the Lord thy God commanded thee to observe the sabbath-day. 
Honor thy father and thy mother, as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee: in order that thy days may be prolonged, and in order that it may go well with thee, in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. 
Thou shalt not kill. 
(5:17A) Neither shalt thou commit adultery. 
(5:17B) Neither shalt thou steal. 
(5:17C) Neither shalt thou bear false witness against thy neighbor. 
(5:18) Neither shalt thou covet thy neighbor's wife. Neither shalt thou desire thy neighbor's house, nor his field, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor's. 
(5:19) These words did the Lord speak unto all your assembly on the mount out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great voice, but he did so no more; and he wrote them on two tables of stone, and he gave them unto me. 
(5:20) And it came to pass, when ye heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, while the mount was burning with fire, that ye came near unto me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders; 
(5:21) And ye said, Behold, the Lord our God hath caused us to see his glory and his greatness, and his voice have we heard out of the midst of the fire: this day have we seen that God can speak with man, who nevertheless may live. 
(5:22) But now why should we die? for this great fire may consume us; if we continue to hear the voice of the Lord our God any more, then shall we die. 
(5:23) For where is there any flesh, that hath heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of the fire, like us, and hath remained alive? 
(5:24) Do thou approach, and hear all that the Lord our God may say; and thou shalt speak unto us all that the Lord our God may speak unto thee; and we will hear and do it. 
(5:25) And the Lord heard the voice of your words, while ye were speaking unto me; and the Lord said unto me, I have heard the voice of the words of this people, which they have spoken unto thee: they have done well in all that they have spoken. 
(5:26) Who would grant that this their heart might remain in them, to fear me, and to keep all my commandments at all times; in order that it might be well with them, and with their children for ever! 
(5:27) Go, say to them, Return you unto your tents. 
(5:28) But as for thee, remain thou here by me, and I will speak unto thee all the commandments, and the statutes, and the ordinances, which thou shalt teach them, that they may do them in the land which I give them to possess it. 
(5:29) Observe ye then to do as the Lord your God hath commanded you: ye shall not turn aside to the right or to the left. 
(5:30) altogether in the way, which the Lord your God hath commanded you, shall ye walk; in order that ye may live, and that it may be well with you, and that ye may remain many days in the land which ye will possess. 
