1 Samuel.
Chapter 3.
And the lad Samuel was ministering unto the Lord before 'Eli. And the word of the Lord was scarce in those days: prophecy was not extended. 
And it came to pass one day, when 'Eli was lying down in his place, and his eyes had begun to grow dim, he could not see; 
And the lamp of God had not yet gone out, while Samuel was lying down in the hall of the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was; 
That the Lord called Samuel: and he said, Here am I. 
And he ran unto 'Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he said, I did not call: lie down again. And he went and lay down. 
And the Lord continued to call again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to 'Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I did not call, my son: lie down again. 
And Samuel knew not yet the Lord, nor had the word of the Lord been as yet revealed unto him. 
And the Lord continued to call, Samuel, the third time; and he arose and went to 'Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And 'Eli then perceived that the Lord was calling the lad. 
And 'Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. And Samuel went and lay down in his place. 
And the Lord came, and placed himself, and called as at previous times, Samuel, Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak; for thy servant heareth. 
And the Lord said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle. 
On that day will I fulfill on 'Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house: I will begin and finish. 
And I tell him that I will judge his house for ever; for the iniquity that he knew that his sons were drawing a curse on themselves, and he restrained them not. 
And therefore have I sworn unto the house of 'Eli, that the iniquity of 'Eli's house shall not be atoned for with sacrifice or meat-offering for ever. 
And Samuel lay until the morning, when he opened the doors of the house of the Lord; and Samuel feared to tell the vision unto 'Eli. 
But 'Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I. 
And he said, What is the word which he hath spoken unto thee? do not, I pray thee, conceal it from me: may God do to thee thus, and continue to do so, if thou conceal any thing from me of all the word that he hath spoken unto thee. 
And Samuel told him all the words, and concealed nothing from him. And he said, He is the Lord: let him do what seemeth good in his eyes. 
And Samuel grew up, and the Lord was with him, and he did not let fall any one of all his words to the ground. 
And thus knew all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba' that Samuel was accredited as a prophet of the Lord. 
And the Lord continued to appear in Shiloh; for the Lord revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the Lord. 
