Proverbs.
Chapter 3.
My son, forget not my teaching, and let thy heart keep my commandments; 
For length of days, and years of life, and peace, will they increase unto thee. 
Let kindness and truth not forsake thee; bind them about thy throat; write them upon the table of thy heart: 
So shalt thou find grace and good favor in the eyes of God and man. 
Trust in the Lord with all thy heart: and upon thy own understanding do not rely. 
In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he will make level thy paths. 
Be not wise in thy own eyes: fear the Lord, and depart from evil. 
It will be healing to thy body, and marrow to thy bones. 
Honor the Lord with thy wealth, and with the first-fruits of all thy products: 
So shall thy storehouses be filled with plenty, and with new wine shall thy presses overflow. 
The correction of the Lord, my son, do not despise; and feel no loathing for his admonition; 
Because whomever the Lord loveth he admonisheth; and as a father who delighteth in his son. 
Happy the man that hath found wisdom, and the man that acquireth understanding. 
For the obtaining of her is better than the obtaining of silver, and better than fine gold is her product. 
She is more precious than pearls; and all the things thou valuest are not equal unto her. 
Length of days is in her right hand: in her left are riches and honor. 
Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. 
A tree of life is she to those that lay hold on her: and every one that firmly graspeth her will be made happy. 
The Lord hath through wisdom founded the earth: he hath established the heavens through understanding. 
By his knowledge were the depths split open, and the skies drop down the dew. 
My son, let them not be removed from thy eyes; keep before thee sound wisdom and discretion: 
And they will be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy throat. 
Then wilt thou walk in safety on thy way, and thy foot will not strike against aught: 
When thou layest thyself down, thou shalt feel no dread; and as thou liest down, thy sleep shall be pleasant. 
Thou needest not to be afraid of sudden dread, neither of the unlooked-for tempest over the wicked, when it cometh. 
For the Lord will be thy confidence, and he will guard thy foot from being caught. 
Withhold not a benefit from him who is deserving it, when it is in the power of thy hand to do it. 
Say not unto thy neighbor, Go, and return, and tomorrow will I give: when thou hast it by thee. 
Contrive not against thy neighbor any evil, when he dwelleth in safety with thee. 
Quarrel not with any man without cause, if he have done thee no harm. 
Envy not the man of violence, and choose none of his ways. 
For the froward is an abomination to the Lord; but with the upright is his good-will. 
The curse of the Lord is in the house of the wicked; but the habitation of the righteous will he bless. 
If it concern the scornful he will himself render them a scorn; but unto the lowly doth he give grace. 
The wise shall inherit glory; but fools shall obtain disgrace as their portion. 
