1 Chronicles.
Chapter 24.
And the divisions of the sons of Aaron were: The sons of Aaron were Nadab, and Abihu, El'azar, and Ithamar. 
But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and they had no children: and El'azar and Ithamar became priests. 
And David divided them off with Zadok of the sons of El'azar', and Achimelech of the sons of Ithamar, to their office in their service. 
And the sons of El'azar were found more numerous in the chiefs of males than the sons of Ithamar; and they divided them accordingly. Of the sons of El'azar there were sixteen chiefs of the family divisions, and of the sons of Ithamar, eight for their family divisions. 
And they divided them off by lot, both the first and the last; for the governors of the sanctuary, and governors of the house of God, were from the sons of El'azar, and from the sons of Ithamar. 
And Shema'yah the son of Nethanel the scribe, one of the Levites, wrote them down before the king, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and Achimelech the son of Ebyathar, and the chiefs of the families of the priests and Levites: one family division being drawn of El'azar, and one being equally drawn of Ithamar. 
And there came out the first lot for Jehoyarib, for Jeda'yah the second, 
For Charim the third, for Se'orim the fourth, 
For Malkiyah the fifth, for Miyamin the sixth. 
For Hakkoz the seventh, for Abiyah the eighth, 
For Jeshua' the ninth, for Shechanyahu the tenth, 
For Elyashib the eleventh, for Jakim the twelfth, 
For Chuppah the thirteenth, for Jeshehah the fourteenth, 
For Bilgah the fifteenth, for Immer the sixteenth, 
For Chezir the seventeenth, for Happizzez the eighteenth, 
For Pethachyah the nineteenth, for Ezekiel the twentieth. 
For Jachin the one and twentieth, for Gamul the two and twentieth, 
For Delayahu the three and twentieth, for Ma'azyahu the four and twentieth. 
This was their office in their service to come into the house of the Lord, according to the manner prescribed to them, under the supervision of Aaron their father, as the Lord the God of Israel had commanded him. 
And of the rest of the sons of Levi there were, of the sons of 'Amram: Shubael. Of the sons of Shubael: Jechdeyahu. 
Concerning Rechabyahu, of the sons of Rechabyahu the chief was Yishiyah. 
Of the Yisharites was Shelomoth: of the sons of Shelomoth was Jachath. 
And the sons of Hebron: Jeriyah, Amaryahu the second, Jachaziel the third, Jekam'am the fourth. 
Of the sons of 'Uzziel, Michah: of the sons of Michah, Shamir. 
The brother of Michah was Yishiyah; of the sons of Yishiyah, Zecharyahu. 
The sons of Merari were Machli and Mushi: the sons of Ja'aziyahu, Beno. 
The sons of Merari by Ja'aziyahu: Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and 'Ibri. 
Of Machli: El'azar, who had no sons. 
Of Kish: The son of Kish was Jerachmeel. 
And the sons of Mushi were Machli, and 'Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites after their family divisions. 
These likewise cast lots in the same manner as their brethren the sons of Aaron in the presence of king David, and Zadok, and Achimelech, and the chiefs of the families of the priests and Levites, even the principal of the families equally with his youngest brother. 
