Esther.
Chapter 3.
After these events did king Achashverosh make great Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, and he advanced him; and he placed his seat above that of all the princes that were with him. 
And all the king's servants, that were in the king's gate, bent the knee and prostrated themselves to Haman; for so had the king commanded concerning him; but Mordecai bent not the knee nor prostrated himself. 
Then said the king's, servants, who were in the king's gate, unto Mordecai, Why transgressest thou the king's command? 
Now it came to pass, when they spoke unto him day by day, and he hearkened not unto them, that they told it to Haman, to see whether the words of Mordecai would be able to stand; for he had told them that be was a Jew. 
And when Haman saw that Mordecai bent not the knee, nor prostrated himself to him, Haman became full of fury. 
But it appeared too contemptible in his eyes to lay his hand on Mordecai alone: for they had told him of the people of Mordecai: therefore Haman sought to destroy all the Jews that were throughout all the kingdom of Achashverosh, the people of Mordecai. 
In the first month, that is the month Nissan, in the twelfth year of king Achashverosh, some one cast the Pur, that is, the lot, before Haman from day to day, and from month to month, to the twelfth month, which is the month Adar. 
Then said Haman unto king Achashverosh, There is one people scattered yet separate among the nations in all the provinces of thy kingdom; and their laws are different from those of every people; while they do not execute the laws of the king; and it is no profit for the king to tolerate them. 
If it be pleasing to the king, let a decree be written to destroy them; and ten thousand talents of silver will I weigh out into the hands of those that have the charge of the business, to bring the same into the king's treasuries. 
And the king drew his signet-ring from off his hand, and gave it unto Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the adversary of the Jews. 
And the king said unto Haman, The silver is given to thee, that people also, to do therewith as it seemeth good in thy eyes. 
Then were called the king's scribes in the first month on the thirteenth day thereof, and there was written all just as Haman had commanded unto the king's lieutenants, and to the governors that were over every province, and to the princes of every people, to every province according to its writing, and to every people according to its language: in the name of king Achashverosh was it written, and it was sealed with the king's signet-ring. 
And the letters were sent by the runners unto all the king's provinces, to destroy, to kill, and to exterminate all the Jews, from young to old, little ones and women, on one day, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, and to plunder their property as spoil. 
A copy of the writing, to be given out as a law in every province, was published unto all the nations, that they might be ready against that day. 
The runners went out with all speed with the king's decree, and the law was given out in Shushan the capital: and the king and Haman sat down to drink; but the city of Shushan was perplexed. 
