1 Chronicles.
Chapter 14.
And Churam the king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and trees of cedars, and masons and carpenters, to build him a house. 
And David felt conscious that the Lord had established him as king over Israel; for his kingdom was exalted on high, because of his people Israel. 
And David took yet more wives at Jerusalem; and David begat more sons and daughters. 
And these are the names of the children that he had in Jerusalem: Shammua', and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, 
And Yibchar, and Elishua', and Elpalet, 
And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Yaphia', 
And Elishama', and Be'elyada', and Eliphalet. 
But when the Philistines heard that David had been anointed as king over all Israel, all the Philistines came up to seek David: and David heard of it, and went out against them. 
And the Philistines came and spread themselves out in the valley of Rephaim. 
And David asked counsel of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? and wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And the Lord said unto him, Go up; and I will deliver them into thy hand. 
And they came up to Ba'al-perazim; and David smote them there. Then David said, God hath broken down my enemies through my hand as a breach is made by water: therefore they called the name of that place Ba'al-perazim. 
And they left behind there their gods, and David gave the order, and they were burnt with fire. 
And the Philistines came once again, and spread themselves out in the valley. 
And David asked again counsel of God; and God said unto him, Thou shalt not go up after them: turn about from them, and come upon them opposite the mulberry-trees, 
And it shall be, when thou hearest the sound of walking on the tops of the mulberry-trees, that then thou shalt go out to battle; for God will be gone forth before thee to smite the camp of the Philistines. 
And David did as God had commanded him; and they smote the camp of the Philistines from Gib'on as far as Gezer. 
And the fame of David went out into all the lands; and the Lord laid the dread of him upon all the nations. 
