Leviticus.
Chapter 2.
And when any person wish to offer a meat-offering unto the Lord: then shall his offering be of fine flour; and he shall pour upon it oil, and put thereon frankincense; 
And he shall bring it to one of the sons of Aaron the priest; and he shall take therefrom his handful of its flour, and of its oil, with all its frankincense; and the priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar, as an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the Lord. 
And what is left of the meat-offering shall belong to Aaron and to his sons: it is a most holy thing, from the fire-offerings of the Lord. 
And if thou bring an oblation of a meat-offering baked in the oven, it shall be of fine flour, unleavened cakes mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil. 
And if thy oblation be a meat-offering baked in a pan, it shall be made of fine flour mingled with oil, unleavened. 
Thou shalt break it in pieces, and pour thereon oil: it is a meat-offering. 
And if thy oblation be a meat-offering baked in the deep pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil. 
And thou shalt bring the meat-offering, which shall be made of these things, unto the Lord; and the offerer shall present it unto the priest, who shall bring it near unto the altar. 
And the priest shall take up from the meat-offering its memorial, and shall burn it upon the altar: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the Lord. 
And that which is left of the meat-offering shall belong to Aaron and his sons: it is a most holy thing, from the fire-offerings of the Lord. 
No meat-offering, which ye shall bring unto the Lord, shall be prepared leavened; for of whatever is leaven, or of any honey, ye shall not sacrifice an offering made by fire unto the Lord. 
As an oblation of the first-fruits shall ye offer them unto the Lord: but on the altar shall they not come for a sweet savor. 
And every oblation of thy meat-offering shalt thou season with salt; and thou shalt not suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meat-offering: with all thy offerings shalt thou offer salt. 
And if thou offer a meat-offering of the first-fruits unto the Lord: of ripe ears of corn dried by the fire, of pounded corn out of full ears, shalt thou offer the meat-offering of thy first-fruits. 
And thou shalt put upon it oil, and lay thereon frankincense: it is a meat-offering. 
And the priest shall burn its memorial, from its pounded corn, and from its oil, with all its frankincense; it is an offering made by fire unto the Lord. 
