Numbers.
Chapter 26.
And it came to pass after the plague, That the Lord spoke unto Moses and unto Elazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying, 
Take ye the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, by the descent from their fathers, all that are able to go forth to war in Israel. 
And Moses with El'azar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab by the Jordan opposite Jericho, saying, 
Take the sum of the people, from twenty years old and upward; as the Lord commanded Moses and the children of Israel, who went forth out of the land of Egypt. 
Reuben, the eldest son of Israel: the children of Reuben, of Chanoch, the family of the Chanochites; of Pallu, the family of the Palluites; 
Of Chezron, the family of the Chezronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites. 
These are the families of the Reubenites; and those that were numbered of them were forty and three thousand and seven hundred and thirty. 
And the sons of Pallu: Eliab. 
And the sons of Eliab: Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. These are Dathan and Abiram, men called to the assembly, who quarreled against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korach, at the time they quarreled against the Lord; 
When the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up together with Korach, while that company died, when the fire devoured the two hundred and fifty men; and they became a sign. 
But the sons of Korach did not die. 
The sons of Simeon after their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; of Yamin, the family of the Yaminites; of Yachin, the family of the Yachinites; 
Of Zerach, the family of the Zarchites; of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites. 
These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty and two thousand and two hundred. 
The children of Gad after their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; of Chaggi, the family of the Chaggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites; 
Of Ozni, the family of the Oznites; of 'Eri, the family of the 'Erites; 
Of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of Areli, the family of the Arelites; 
These are the families of the children of Gad according to those that were numbered of them, forty thousand and five hundred. 
The sons of Judah were 'Er and Onan; and 'Er with Onan died in the land of Canaan. 
And the sons of Judah after their families were: of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites; of Perez, the family of the Parzites; of Zerach, the family of the Zarchites. 
And the sons of Perez were: of Chezron, the family of the Chezronites; of Chamul, the family of the Chamulites. 
These are the families of Judah, according to those that were numbered of them, seventy and six thousand and five hundred. 
The sons of Issachar after their families: of Tola', the family of the Tola'ites; of Puva, the family of the Punites; 
Of Yashub, the family of the Yashubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites. 
These are the families of Issachar according to those that were numbered of them, sixty and four thousand and three hundred. 
The sons of Zebulun after their families: of Sered, the family of the Sardites; of Elon, the family of the Elonites; of Yachleel, the family of the Yachleelites. 
These are the families of the Zebulonites according to those that were numbered of them, sixty thousand and five hundred. 
The sons of Joseph after their families are Menasseh and Ephraim. 
The sons of Menasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites; and Machir begat Gil'ad; of Gil'ad, the family of the Gil'adites. 
These are the sons of Gil'ad: of I'ezer, the family of the I'ezerites; of Chelek, the family of the Chelkites; 
And of Assriel, the family of the Assrielites; and of Shechem, the family of the Shichmites; 
And of Shemida', the family of the Shemida'ites; and of Chepher, the family of the Chephrites. 
And Zelophehad the son of Chepher had no sons, but only daughters; and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Machlah, and No'ah, Choglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. 
These are the families of Menasseh; and those that were numbered of them were fifty and two thousand and seven hundred. 
These are the sons of Ephraim after their families: of Shuthelach, the family of the Shuthalchites; of Becher, the family of the Bachrites; of Tachan, the family of the Tachanites. 
And these are the sons of Shuthelach: of 'Eran, the family of the Eranites. 
These are the families of the sons of Ephraim according to those that were numbered of them, thirty and two thousand and five hundred: these are the sons of Joseph after their families. 
The sons of Benjamin after their families: of Bela', the family of the Bal'ites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; of Achiram, the family of the Achiramites; 
Of Shephupham, the family of the Shuphamites; of Chupham, the family of the Chuphamites. 
And the sons of Bela' were Ard and Na'aman: of Ard, the family of the Ardites; and of Na'aman, the family of the Na'amites. 
These are the sons of Benjamin after their families; and those that were numbered of them were forty and five thousand and six hundred. 
These are the sons of Dan after their families: of Shucham, the family of the Shuchamites; these are the families of Dan after their families. 
All the families of the Shuchamites, according to those that were numbered of them, were sixty and four thousand and four hundred. 
The children of Asher after their families: of Yimnah, the family of the Yimnites; of Yishvi, the family of the Yishvites; of Beri'ah, the family of the Beri'ites. 
Of the sons of Beri'ah: of Cheber, the family of the Chebrites; of Malkiel, the family of the Makielites. 
And the name of the daughter of Asher was Serach. 
These are the families of the sons of Asher according to those that were numbered of them, fifty and three thousand and four hundred. 
The sons of Naphtali after their families: of Yachzeel, the family of the Yachzeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites; 
Of Yezer, the family of the Yizrites; of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites. 
These are the families of Naphtali according to their families; and those that were numbered of them were forty and five thousand and four hundred. 
These were the numbered of the children of Israel, six hundred thousand, and one thousand, seven hundred and thirty. 
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Unto these shall the land be divided for an inheritance according to the number of the names. 
To the large tribe shalt thou give the more inheritance, and to the small shalt thou give the less inheritance: to each according to those that were numbered thereof shall its inheritance be given. 
Nevertheless, through the lot shall the land be divided: according to the names of the tribes of their fathers shall they obtain their inheritance. 
By the decision of the lot shall the inheritance of each be divided, according as they are many or few. 
And these are those that were numbered of the Levites after their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershunites: of Kehath, the family of the Kehathites; of Merari, the family of the Merarites. 
These are the families of Levi: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Chebronites, the family of the Machlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korchites; and Kehath begat 'Amran. 
And the name of 'Amram's wife was Yochebed, the daughter of Levi, whom her mother bore to Levi in Egypt; and she bore unto Amram, Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister. 
And there were born unto Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, Elazar, and Ithamar. 
And Nadab and Abihu died, when they offered a strange fire before the Lord. 
And those that were numbered of them were twenty and three thousand, all the males from a month old and upward; for they were not numbered among the children of Israel, because there was not given unto them any inheritance among the children of Israel. 
These are those that were numbered by Moses and Elazar the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan, opposite Jericho. 
And among these there was not one man of those whom Moses and Aaron the priest had numbered, who numbered the children of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai. 
For the Lord had said of them, They shall surely die in the wilderness: and there was not left of them one man, save Caleb the son of Yephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun. 
