Ezekiel.
Chapter 45.
And when ye divide the land by lot for an inheritance, shall ye offer an oblation unto the Lord, as a holy portion of the land, five and twenty thousand rods in length, and in breadth ten thousand. This shall be holy in all its extent round about. 
Of this there shall be for the sanctuary five hundred rods by five hundred, square round about; and fifty cubits as an open space for it round about. 
And of this measure shalt thou measure, in length five and twenty thousand, and in breadth ten thousand rods: and in it shall be the sanctuary and the holy of holies. 
The holy portion of the land shall it be, for the priests the ministers of the sanctuary shall it be, who come near to minister unto the Lord; and it shall be unto them a place for houses, and a holy place for the sanctuary. 
And five and twenty thousand rods in length, and ten thousand in breadth, shall also belong unto the Levites, the servants of the house, for themselves, as a possession, with twenty chambers. 
And as the possession of the city shall ye assign five thousand rods broad, and five and twenty thousand long, alongside the holy oblation: unto the whole house of Israel shall it belong. 
And the prince shall have that on the one side and on the other side of the holy oblation, and of the possession of the city, in front of the holy oblation, and in front of the possession of the city, on the west side westward, and on the east side eastward; and in length alongside one of the portions, both on the west border and on the east border. 
As landed property shall it be his possession in Israel: and my princes shall no more wrong my people; but the land shall they give to the house of Israel according to their tribes. 
Thus hath said the Lord Eternal, Ye have done enough wrong, O princes of Israel: remove violence and robbery, and execute justice and righteousness; take away your exactions from my people, saith the Lord Eternal. 
Just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath shall ye have. 
The ephah and the bath shall contain the same quantity, that the bath may contain the tenth part of a chomer, and the ephah the tenth part of a chomer: after the chomer shall the measure of contents be. 
And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs: in pieces of twenty shekels, five and twenty shekels, fifteen shekels, shall be your maneh. 
This is the heave-offering that ye shall offer; The sixth part of an ephah of a chomer of wheat; and ye shall give the sixth part of an ephah of a chomer of barley; 
And the fixed portion of oil shall be after the bath of oil, the tenth part of a bath out of the cor, ten baths reckoned to the chomer; for ten baths are a chomer; 
And one lamb out of the flock, out of two hundred, out of the fat pastures of Israel, for meat-offerings, and for burnt-offerings, and for peace-offerings, to make an atonement for them, saith the Lord Eternal. 
All the people of the land shall be held bound for this heave-offering for the prince in Israel. 
And upon the prince shall be the duty to furnish the burnt-offerings, the meat-offerings, and the drink-offerings, on the feasts, and on the new-moon days, and on the sabbaths, on all the festive seasons of the house of Israel: he himself shall prepare the sin-offering, and the meat-offering, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings, to make an atonement in behalf of the house of Israel. 
Thus hath said the Lord Eternal, In the first month, on the first of the month, shalt thou take a young bullock without blemish, and make an expiation for the sanctuary. 
And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin-offering, and put it upon the door-post of the house, and upon the four corners of the projection of the altar, and upon the door-post of the gate of the inner court. 
And so shalt thou do on the seventh day of the month for every one that erreth, and for him that hath sinned unawares; so shall ye atone for the house. 
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, shall ye have the passover: a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten. 
And the prince shall prepare on that day in behalf of himself and in behalf of all the people of the land a bullock for a sin-offering. 
And on the seven days of the feast shall he prepare a burnt-offering to the Lord, seven bullocks and seven rams without blemish on every day of the seven days; and for a sin-offering a he-goat on every day. 
And as a meat-offering an ephah for a bullock, and an ephah for a ram shall he prepare, and a hin of oil for each ephah. 
In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, on the feast, shall he prepare the like during the seven days, both the sin-offering, as also the burnt-offering, and the meat-offering, and the oil. 
