Isaiah.
Chapter 47.
Come down, and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground, there is no throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans; for men shall nevermore call thee, Tender and delicate. 
Take the mill, and grind meal: uncover thy locks, lift up the train, uncover the thigh, pass over the rivers. 
Thy nakedness shall be uncovered, yea, thy shame shall be seen: I will take vengeance, and I will not regard any man. 
Our redeemer—the Lord of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel. 
Sit thou silent, and enter into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans; for men shall never more call thee, The mistress of kingdoms. 
I was wroth over my people, I defiled my inheritance, and gave them into thy hand: yet thou didst grant them no mercy; upon the aged hast thou laid very heavily thy yoke. 
And thou saidst, For ever shall I be mistress; until that thou didst not lay these things to thy heart, thou didst not call to mind the result thereof. 
And now hear this, luxurious one, that dwellest in security, that sayest in thy heart, I am, and there is nothing else beside me; I shall not sit as a widow, neither shall I know the loss of children: 
Yet both these things shall come to thee in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood; in their full measure shall they come upon thee, despite of the multitude of thy sorceries, despite of the very great abundance of thy enchantments. 
And thou didst trust in thy wickedness: thou saidst, No one seeth me. Thy wisdom and thy knowledge,—these were they that seduced thee; and thou saidst in thy heart, I am, and there is nothing else beside me. 
And there shall come upon thee an evil, which thou shalt not know how to remove it by prayer; and there shall fall upon thee mischief, which thou shalt not be able to atone for; and there shall come upon thee suddenly desolation, which thou shalt not know. 
Stand now with thy enchantments, and with the multitude of thy sorceries, wherein thou hast labored from thy youth; peradventure thou mayest be able to profit, peradventure thou mayest withstand. 
Thou art wearied with the multitude of thy counsels. Do let now those that divide off the heavens, that look at the stars, that announce coming events at new moons, stand up, and save thee from the things that are to come over thee. 
Behold, they are become as stubble; the fire burneth them; they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame: not a coal shall be left to warm at, no blaze to sit before it. 
Thus are they become unto thee with whom thou hast labored; those that had commerce with thee from thy youth, wander away every one on his road: there is no one to save thee. 
