Psalms.
Chapter 31.
“To the chief musician, a psalm of David.” (31:2) In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust; Oh that I may never be put to shame: through thy righteousness do thou release me. 
(31:3) Bend unto me thy ear; speedily deliver me: be thou unto me as a rock of protection, as a mountain strong-hold to save me. 
(31:4) For my rock and my stronghold art thou; and for the sake of thy name lead me, and guide me. 
(31:5) Draw me out of the net which they have laid secretly for me; for thou art my protection. 
(31:6) Into thy hand do I commit my spirit: thou redeemest me, O Lord, the God of truth. 
(31:7) I hate those that depend on lying vanities; but I trust indeed in the Lord. 
(31:8) I will be glad and rejoice in thy kindness; because thou hast seen my misery; thou hast taken cognizance of the distresses of my soul; 
(31:9) And thou hast not surrendered me into the hand of the enemy: thou hast caused my feet to stand on an ample space. 
(31:10) Be gracious unto me, O Lord, for I am in distress; my eye is consumed through vexation—my soul too and my body. 
(31:11) For my life is spent with sorrow, and my years with sighing, my strength faileth because of my iniquity, and my bones are consumed. 
(31:12) Because of all my assailants am I become a reproach, and unto my neighbors greatly so, and a terror to my acquaintance, those that see me abroad flee away from me. 
(31:13) I am forgotten as a dead man out of the heart: I am become like a perishable vessel. 
(31:14) For I have heard the slandering of many; terror was on every side, while they took counsel together against me: to take away my life did they purpose. 
(31:15) But I trusted well in thee, O Lord: I said, Thou art my God. 
(31:16) In thy hand are my destinies: deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from my persecutors. 
(31:17) Let thy face shine upon thy servant: save me through thy kindness. 
(31:18) O Lord, let me not be put to shame; for I have called on thee: let the wicked be put to shame, let them be silent, passing to the nether world. 
(31:19) Let the lying lips be made dumb, which speak hard things against the righteous, with pride and contempt. 
(31:20) Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast treasured up for those that fear thee; which thou hast wrought for those that trust in thee before the sons of men! 
(31:21) Thou wilt conceal them in the secret of thy presence from the conspiracy of men: thou wilt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues. 
(31:22) Blessed be the Lord: for he hath shown me his kindness wonderfully in a beleaguered city. 
(31:23) And yet had I said in my despondency, I am cut off from before thy eyes: nevertheless thou didst hear the voice of my supplications when I cried loudly unto thee. 
(31:24) Oh love the Lord, all ye his pious ones: the Lord preserveth the faithful, and recompenses the presumption of him that acteth proudly. 
(31:25) Be strong, and let your heart be of good courage, all ye that hope in the Lord. 
