Proverbs.
Chapter 22.
A good name is preferable to abundant riches, and good grace, to silver and to gold. 
The rich and poor meet together: the Lord is the maker them all. 
The prudent foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the simple pass on, and are punished. 
The reward of humility and the fear of the Lord are riches and honor, and life. 
Thorns and snares are on the way of a perverse man: he that doth guard his soul will keep far from them. 
Train up the lad in accordance with his course: even when he groweth old, will he not depart from it. 
A rich man ruleth over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the man that lendeth. 
He that soweth injustice will reap wrong-doing; and the rod of God's wrath will not fail. 
A man of a benevolent eye will indeed be blessed; for he giveth of his bread to the poor. 
Drive away the scorner, and strife will go off; and then will cease contention and dishonor. 
He that loveth with a pure heart, and hath grace on his lips, will have the king as his friend. 
The eyes of the Lord guard knowledge, and he overturneth the words of the treacherous. 
The slothful saith, There is a lion without, in the midst of the streets shall I be murdered. 
A deep pit is the mouth of adulterous women: he that hath obtained the indignation of the Lord will fall thereinto. 
When folly is bound fast to the heart of a lad, the rod of correction must remove it far from him. 
He that oppresseth the poor to increase his riches, must at length give to the rich, and come only to want. 
Incline thy ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply thy heart unto my knowledge. 
For it is a pleasant thing if thou keep them within thy bosom, if they be altogether firmly seated upon thy lips. 
That thy trust may be in the Lord, have I made them known to thee this day, yea, even to thee. 
Have not I written for thee excellent things in counsels and knowledge, 
That I might make thee know rectitude, the sayings of truth; that thou mightest bring back answers of truth to those that send thee? 
Rob not the poor, because he is poor, neither crush the afflicted in the gate; 
For the Lord will plead their cause, and despoil the life of those that despoil them. 
Make no friendship with a man given to anger; and with a man of fury thou must have no intercourse: 
Lest thou learn his ways, and get a snare for thy own soul. 
Be not one of those that pledge their hand, or of those that are sureties for debts. 
If thou have nothing to pay, why should he take away thy bed from under thee? 
Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have established. 
Seest thou a man that is diligent in his work? before kings may he place himself: let him not place himself before obscure men. 
