Exodus.
Chapter 30.
And thou shalt make an altar to burn incense upon, of shittim wood shalt thou make it. 
A cubit shall be its length, and a cubit its breadth, foursquare shall it be; and two cubits shall be its height; from itself shall its horns be. 
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, its top, and its sides round about, and its horns; and thou shalt make unto it a crown of gold round about. 
And two rings of gold shalt thou make for it beneath its crown, on its two corners shalt thou make them, upon both its sides; and they shall be as receptacles for the staves to bear it by means of them. 
And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold. 
And thou shalt put it before the vail that is before the ark of the testimony, before the mercy-seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with thee. 
And Aaron shall burn thereon incense of spices; every morning when he dresseth the lamps, shall he burn it. 
And when Aaron lighteth the lamps toward evening, shall he burn it; a perpetual incense before the Lord, throughout your generations. 
Ye shall not offer thereon any strange incense, or burnt-sacrifice, or meat-offering; and a drink-offering shall ye not pour thereon. 
And Aaron shall make an atonement upon its horns once in a year; with the blood of the sin-offering of the day of atonement, once in the year, shall he make atonement upon it, throughout your generations; it is most holy unto the Lord. 
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
When thou takest the sum of the children of Israel of those who are to be numbered of them, then shall they give every man a ransom for his soul unto the Lord, when they number them; that there be no plague among them, when they number them. 
This shall they give, every one that passeth among those that are numbered, Half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary; twenty gerahs to the shekel; the half of the shekel shall be the tribute to the Lord. 
Every one that passeth among those that are numbered, from twenty years old and above, shall give the tribute unto the Lord. 
The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less than the half of a shekel, as a tribute unto the Lord, to make an atonement for your souls. 
And thou shalt take the money of the atonement from the children of Israel, and shalt employ it for the service of the tabernacle of the congregation; and it shall be unto the children of Israel as a memorial before the Lord, to make an atonement for your souls. 
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Thou shalt also make a laver of copper, with its foot of copper, to wash withal: and thou shalt set it between the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar, and thou shalt put therein water. 
And Aaron and his sons shall wash out of it their hands and their feet. 
When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation, shall they wash themselves with water, that they die not; or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn an offering made by fire unto the Lord. 
And they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they die not; and it shall be to them a statute for ever, even to him and to his seed throughout their generations. 
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
And thou, take unto thyself principal spices: of pure myrrh five hundred shekels, and of sweet cinnamon, its half shall be two hundred and fifty shekels, and of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty shekels, 
And of cassia five hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of olive-oil one hin. 
And thou shalt make of it an oil of holy anointing, a mixture, compounded after the art of the apothecary: an oil of holy anointing shall it be. 
And thou shalt anoint therewith the tabernacle of the congregation, and the ark of the testimony, 
And the table and all its vessels, and the candlestick and its vessels, and the altar of incense, 
And the altar of burnt-offering with all its vessels, and the laver and its foot. 
And thou shalt sanctify them, and they shall be most holy; whatsoever toucheth them shall be holy. 
And Aaron and his sons shalt thou anoint, and consecrate them to be priests unto me. 
And unto the children of Israel shalt thou speak, saying, An oil of holy anointing shall this be unto me throughout your generations. 
Upon the flesh of man shall it not be poured, and after its proportion shall ye not make any thing like it; it is holy, and holy shall it be unto you. 
Whosoever compoundeth the like of it, or whosoever putteth any of it upon a stranger, shall be cut off from his people. 
And the Lord said unto Moses, Take unto thee spices, balm, and onycha, and galbanum, spices, with pure frankincense: of each shall there be an equal weight. 
And thou shalt make it an incense, a mixture after the art of the apothecary, well mingled together, pure and holy. 
And thou shalt pour some of it fine, and offer of it before the testimony in the tabernacle of the congregation, where I will meet with thee; most holy shall it be unto you. 
And as for the incense which thou shalt make, according to its proportion, shall ye not make any unto yourselves: holy shall it be unto thee for the Lord. 
Whosoever shall make the like of it, to smell thereon, shall be cut off from his people. 
