The Third Book of Moses, called Leviticus.
Chapter 1.
And the Lord called unto Moses, and spoke unto him out of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying, 
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, If any one of you wish to bring an offering unto the Lord: of the cattle, either of the herds, or of the flocks, shall ye bring your offering. 
If his offering be a burnt-sacrifice of the herds, then shall he offer a male without blemish: unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation shall he bring it, that it may be favorably received for him before the Lord. 
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the burnt-offering; and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him. 
And he shall kill the young steer before the Lord: and the sons of Aaron the priests shall bring near the blood, and they shall sprinkle the blood round about upon the altar that is by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
And he shall flay the burnt-offering, and cut it into its pieces. 
And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire upon the altar, and lay the wood in order upon the fire; 
And the sons of Aaron the priests shall lay in order the parts, the head, and the fat, upon the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar; 
But its inwards and its legs shall he wash in water; and the priest shall burn the whole on the altar, as a burnt-sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the Lord. 
And if his offering be of the flocks, of the sheep, or of the goats, for a burnt-sacrifice: then shall he offer a male without blemish as the same. 
And he shall kill it on the side of the altar, northward, before the Lord; and the sons of Aaron the priests shall sprinkle its blood upon the altar round about. 
And he shall cut it into its pieces, with its head and its fat; and the priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar; 
But the inwards and the legs shall he wash with water; and the priest shall bring near the whole, and burn it upon the altar; it is a burnt-sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the Lord. 
And if of fowls be the burnt-sacrifice for his offering to the Lord: then shall he bring his offering of turtle-doves, or of young pigeons. 
And the priest shall bring it near unto the altar, and pinch off its head, and burn it on the altar; and the blood thereof shall be wrung out on the wall of the altar. 
And he shall remove its crop with its feathers, and cast it beside the altar on the east part, at the place of the ashes. 
And he shall cleave it by its wings, but shall not divide it asunder; and the priest shall burn it upon the altar, upon the wood that is on the fire: it is a burnt-sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the Lord. 
