Joshua.
Chapter 13.
Now Joshua was old, well stricken in years; and the Lord said unto him, Thou art old, stricken in years, and of the land there remaineth yet very much to be taken possession of. 
This is the land that yet remaineth: All the circles of the Philistines, and all the land of the Geshurites, 
From the Shichor, which runneth before Egypt, even unto the boundary of 'Ekron northward, is counted to the Canaanites; the five lords of the Philistines; the Gazzathites, and the Ashdodites, the Eshkelonites, the Gittites, and the 'Ekronites; also the 'Avvim; 
On the south, all the land of the Canaanites, and Me'arah that belongeth to the Zidonians, up to Aphek, up to the border of the Emorites; 
And the land of the Giblites, and all Lebanon, toward the rising of the sun, from Ba'al-gad under mount Chermon up to the entrance of Chamath. 
All the inhabitants of the mountain from Lebanon unto Missrephoth-mayim, all the Zidonians: these will I drive out from before the children of Israel; only divide thou it by lot unto the Israelites for an inheritance, as I have commanded thee. 
And now divide this land for an inheritance unto the nine tribes, and the half tribe of Menasseh. 
With him the Reubenites and the Gadites have received their inheritance, which Moses gave unto them, beyond the Jordan eastward, as Moses the servant of the Lord hath given them; 
From 'Aro'er, that is upon the bank of the brook Arnon, and the city that is in the midst of the brook, and all the plain of Medeba up to Dibon; 
And all the cities of Sichon the king of the Emorites, who reigned over Cheshbon, up to the border of the children of 'Ammon; 
And Gil'ad, and the territory of the Geshurites and Ma'achathites, and all mount Chermon, and all Bashan up to Salchah; 
All the kingdom of 'Og in Bashan, who reigned in 'Ashtaroth and in Edre'i; who had been left of the remnant of the Rephaim; and Moses smote them, and cast them out. 
Nevertheless the children of Israel expelled not the Geshurites and the Ma'achathites; but the Geshurites and the Ma'achathites continued to dwell in the midst of the Israelites until this day. 
Only unto the tribe of Levi he gave no inheritance: the fire-offerings of the Lord, the God of Israel, are their inheritance, as he hath spoken unto them. 
And Moses gave unto the tribe of the children of Reuben according to their families; 
And their territory was from 'Aro'er, that is on the bank of the brook Arnon, and the city that is in the midst of the brook, and all the plain by Medeba; 
Cheshbon, and all its cities that are in the plain; Dibon, and Bamoth-ba'al, and Beth-ba'al-me'on, 
And Yahzah, and Kedemoth, and Mepha'ath, 
And Kiryathayim, and Sibmah, and Zereth-hashachar on the mount of the valley, 
And Beth-pe'or, and the declivities of Pisgah, and Beth-hayeshimoth, 
And all the cities of the plain, and all the kingdom of Sichon the king of the Emorites, who reigned in Cheshbon, whom Moses smote with the princes of Midian, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Chur, and Reba', the dukes of Sichon, the dwellers of the country. 
And Bil'am the son of Be'or, the soothsayer, did the children of Israel slay with the sword among their slain. 
And the boundary of the children of Reuben was the Jordan, and its bordering territory. This was the inheritance of the children of Reuben after their families, the cities and their villages. 
And Moses gave unto the tribe of Gad, unto the children of Gad according to their families; 
And their territory was Ya'zer, and all the cities of Gil'ad, and half the land of the children of 'Ammon, up to 'Aro'er that is before Rabbah; 
And from Cheshbon unto Ramath-mizpeh, and Betonim; and from Machanayim up to the border of Debir; 
And in the valley, Beth-haram, and Beth-nimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sichon the king of Cheshbon, the Jordan and its bordering territory, up to the edge of the sea of Kinnereth on the other side of the Jordan eastward. 
This is the inheritance of the children of Gad after their families, the cities and their villages. 
And Moses gave unto the half tribe of Menasseh; and it belonged to the half tribe of the children of Menasseh after their families; 
And their territory was from Machanayim, all Bashan, all the kingdom of 'Og the king of Bashan, and all the villages of Ya'ir, which are in Bashan, sixty cities; 
And half Gil'ad and 'Ashtaroth, and Edre'i, the cities of the kingdom of 'Og in Bashan, belonged unto the children of Machir the son of Menasseh, even to the one half of the children of Machir after their families. 
These are they to whom Moses did distribute an inheritance in the plans of Moab, on the other side of the Jordan, by Jericho, eastward. 
But unto the tribe of Levi Moses gave not any inheritance: the Lord the God of Israel is himself their inheritance, as he hath spoken unto them. 
