Exodus.
Chapter 9.
And the Lord said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh, and speak to him, Thus hath said the Eternal, the God of the Hebrews, Let my people go, that they may serve me. 
For if thou refusest to let them go, and still holdest on to them, 
Behold, the hand of the Lord will be sent against thy cattle which is in the field, against the horses, against the asses, against the camels, against the oxen, and against the sheep;—a very grievous pestilence. 
And the Lord will distinguish between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of Egypt; and not one head shall die of all that belongeth to the children of Israel. 
And the Lord appointed a set time, saying, Tomorrow will the Lord do this thing in the land. 
And the Lord did this thing on the morrow, and all the cattle of Egypt died; but of the cattle of the children of Israel there died not one. 
And Pharaoh sent, and, behold, there had not died of the cattle of the Israelites even one; but the heart of Pharaoh remained hardened, and he did not let the people go. 
And the Lord said unto Moses and unto Aaron, Take unto yourselves your hands full of soot of the furnace, and let Moses throw it heavenward before the eyes of Pharaoh. 
And it shall become small dust over all the land of Egypt, and shall become upon man and beast an inflammation, producing boils, throughout all the land of Egypt. 
And they took the soot of the furnace, and stood before Pharaoh; and Moses threw it up heavenward; and it became an inflammation, producing boils, upon man, and upon beast. 
And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the inflammation; for the inflammation was upon the magicians, and upon all the Egyptians. 
And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not unto them; as the Lord had spoken unto Moses. 
And the Lord said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and place thyself before Pharaoh, and say unto him, Thus hath said the Eternal, the God of the Hebrews, Let my people go, that they may serve me. 
For at this time I send all my plagues against thy heart, and against thy servants, and against thy people; in order that thou mayest know that there is none like me on all the earth. 
For even now I might have stretched out my hand, and I might have smitten thee and thy people with the pestilence; and thou wouldst have been cut off from the earth; 
But for this cause have I allowed thee to remain, in order to show thee my power; and in order that they may proclaim my name throughout all the earth. 
If thou dost yet wantonly oppress my people, so as not to let them go: 
Behold, then will I let rain, about this time tomorrow, a very grievous hail, the like of which hath not been in Egypt since the day of its foundation even until now. 
And now send, and bring under shelter thy cattle, and all that thou hast in the field; for every man and beast that shall be found in the field, and shall not be brought into the house, upon them shall the hail come down, and they shall die. 
He that feared the word of the Lord among the servants of Pharaoh made his servants and his cattle flee into the houses; 
And he that regarded not the word of the Lord left his servants and his cattle in the field. 
And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch forth thy hand toward heaven, and there shall be hail in all the land of Egypt, upon man, and upon beast, and upon every herb of the field, in the land of Egypt. 
And Moses stretched forth his staff toward heaven; and the Lord sent thunder and hail, and the fire ran down to the ground; and the Lord rained hail upon the land of Egypt. 
And there was hail, and fire was flaming up amidst the hail, very grievous, the like of which had not been in all the land of Egypt, since it had become a nation. 
And the hail smote throughout all the land of Egypt all that was in the field, both man and beast; and every herb of the field did the hail smite, and every tree of the field did it break. 
Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were, there was no hail. 
And Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, and he said unto them, I have sinned this time; the Eternal is the righteous, and I and my people are the wicked. 
Entreat the Lord that there may be no more of the thunders of God, and hail; and I will let you go, and ye shall no longer stay here. 
And Moses said unto him, As soon as I am gone out of the city, I will spread out my hands unto the Lord: the thunders shall cease, and the hail shall not be any more; in order that thou mayest know how that to the Lord belongeth the earth. 
But as for thee and thy servants, I know that ye are not yet afraid before the Lord God. 
And the flax and the barley were smitten; for the barley was in the ear, and the flax was bolled. 
But the wheat and the millet were not smitten; for they are late-ripening. 
And Moses went away from Pharaoh out of the city, and spread out his hands unto the Lord: and the thunders and hail ceased, and the rain was not poured out upon the earth. 
And when Pharaoh saw that the rain, and the hail, and the thunders had ceased, he sinned yet farther, and hardened his heart, he and his servants. 
And the heart of Pharaoh remained hardened, and he did not let the children of Israel go; as the Lord had spoken by the hand of Moses. 
