Zechariah.
Chapter 10.
Ask from the Lord rain at the time of the latter rain, from the Lord who maketh lightning-clouds: and he will give unto them showers of rain, to every herb in the field. 
For the Theraphim speak vanity, and the diviners foresee a lie, and those that have dreams speak what is false, with nought do they comfort: therefore do they move about like a flock, they bleat, because they have no shepherd. 
Against the shepherds is my anger kindled, and on the he-goats will I inflict punishment; for the Lord of hosts thinketh of his flock, the house of Judah, and maketh them as his elegant horse in the battle. 
Out of him cometh forth the corner -stone, out of him the tent-nail, out of him the battle-bow, out of him every ruler of others together. 
And they shall be like mighty men, treading down their enemies in the mire of the streets in the battle, and they shall fight, because the Lord is with them: and the riders on horses shall be made ashamed. 
And I will strengthen the house of Judah, and the house of Joseph will I save, and I will bring them again to their own homes; for I have mercy upon them, and they shall be as though I had never cast them off; for I am the Lord their God, and I will answer their prayer. 
And they of Ephraim shall be like a mighty man, and their heart shall rejoice as though from wine: and their children shall see it, and be rejoiced; their heart shall be glad in the Lord. 
I will call for them, and gather them; for I have redeemed them: and they shall increase as they have increased formerly. 
And when I shall have scattered them among the people, they will remember me in the far-off countries: therefore shall they live with their children, and return again. 
And I will bring them back again out of the land of Egypt, and out of Assyria will I gather them; and into the land of Gil'ad and Lebanon will I bring them, and it shall not be sufficient for them. 
And he will pass through the sea with distress, and he will smite in the sea the waves, and there shall dry up all the deeps of the stream: and there shall be brought down the pride of Assyria, and the sceptre of Egypt shall depart away. 
And I will strengthen them in the Lord, and in his name shall they ever walk, saith the Lord. 
