Ezekiel.
Chapter 46.
Thus hath said the Lord Eternal, The gate of the inner court that looketh toward the east shall remain locked the six working days; but on the sabbath day shall it be opened, and on the new-moon day shall it be opened. 
And the prince shall enter by the way of the porch of the gate, from without, and shall stand by the door-post of the gate, and the priests shall prepare his burnt-offering and his peace-offerings, and he shall bow himself down at the threshold of the gate, and he shall then go forth; but the gate shall not be locked until the evening. 
And the people of the land shall bow themselves down at the door of this same gate on the sabbaths and on the new-moons before the Lord. 
And the burnt-offering which the prince is to offer unto the Lord, shall be on the sabbath-day six sheep without blemish, and a ram without blemish; 
And as a meat-offering an ephah for the ram, and for the sheep a meat-offering as his hand may be able to give, and a hin of oil for every ephah. 
And on the day of the new moon, a young bullock without blemish, and six sheep and a ram; without blemish shall they be. 
And an ephah for the bullock, and an ephah for the ram, shall he prepare as a meat-offering, and for the sheep according as his means may reach, and a hin of oil for every ephah. 
And when the prince doth enter, he shall go in by the way of the porch of the gate, and by the same way shall he go forth. 
But when the people of the land come before the Lord on the appointed feasts, he that entereth in by the way of the north gate to bow himself down shall go out by the way of the south gate; and he that entereth by the way of the south gate shall go out by the way of the north gate: he shall not return by the way of the gate whereby he came in; but by that opposite to him shall he go out. 
And as for the prince—in the midst of them, when they go in, shall he go in; and when they go out, shall they go out together. 
And on the feasts and on the appointed festivals shall the meat-offering be an ephah for each bullock, and an ephah for each ram, and for the sheep as his hand may be able to give, and a hin of oil for every ephah. 
And when the prince doth prepare as a voluntary gift a burnt-offering, or a peace-offering, as a voluntary gift unto the Lord: then shall be opened for him the gate that looketh toward the east, and he shall prepare his burnt-offering and his peace-offering, as he usually doth on the sabbath-day; and he shall go out, and the gate shall be locked after his going out. 
And a sheep of the first year without blemish shalt thou prepare as a burnt-offering every day unto the Lord: morning by morning shalt thou prepare it. 
And as a meat-offering shalt thou prepare with it, morning by morning, the sixth part of an ephah, and the third of a hin of oil, to mingle with the fine flour—a meat-offering unto the Lord, as ordinances for ever continually. 
Thus shall they prepare the sheep, and the meat-offering, and the oil, morning by morning, as a continual burnt-offering. 
Thus hath said the Lord Eternal, If the prince make gift unto any one of his sons, it is his inheritance, it shall belong to his sons: it shall be their possession as their inheritance. 
But if he make a gift of his inheritance to one of his servants: then shall it remain his to the year of freedom, when it shall return to the prince; but his inheritance shall only remain for his sons. 
But the prince shall not take any thing from the inheritance of the people, to wrong them out of their possession: out of his own possession can he give an inheritance to his sons; in order that not one of my people be deprived of his possession. 
And then he brought me through the entry, which was at the side of the gate, into the holy chambers for the priests, which looked toward the north: and, behold, there was a place by the back wall on the west side. 
And he said unto me, This is the place where the priests shall boil the trespass-offering and the sin-offering, where also they shall bake the meat-offering; so as not to carry the same out into the outer court, to mingle with the people. 
Then did he lead me forth into the outer court, and caused me to pass along the four corners of the court; and, behold, in every corner of the court there was a court. 
In the four corners of the court there were uncovered courts of forty cubits in length and thirty in breadth: there was one measure for all these four in the corners. 
And there was a shelf of masonry round about in them, round about all these four, and it was furnished with hearths for boiling under the shelves round about. 
Then said he unto me, These are the places of those that boil, where the servants of the house shall boil the sacrifice of the people. 
