Exodus.
Chapter 36.
And Bezalel and Aholiab, and every wise-hearted man, in whom the Lord hath put wisdom and understanding to know how to do every manner of work for the service of the sanctuary, shall make all, just as the Lord hath commanded. 
And Moses called for Bezalel and Aholiab, and every wise-hearted man in whose heart the Lord had put wisdom, every one whose heart stirred him up to come near unto the work to do it: 
And they received from Moses the whole of the offering, which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it; and these brought unto him yet more free-will offerings morning after morning. 
And then came all the wise men, that wrought all the work of the sanctuary, every man from his own work which they were doing. 
And they said unto Moses, thus, The people bring more than is required for the service of the work, which the Lord hath commanded to make. 
And Moses gave the command, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman do any more work for the offering of the sanctuary: so the people were restrained from bringing more. 
And the stuff prepared was sufficient for all the work to make it, and there was some over. 
And all the wise-hearted men, among those who wrought the work, made the tabernacle of ten curtains; of twisted linen thread, and blue, and purple, and scarlet yarn; with cherubim, of weaver's work, made he them. 
The length of each curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits: there was one measure for all the curtains. 
And he coupled together five of the curtains one to another: and the other five curtains he coupled one to another. 
And he made loops of blue on the edge of the one curtain, which was the outside in the coupling: the like he made on the border of the curtain, which was the outmost on the second coupling. 
Fifty loops made he on the one curtain, and fifty loops made he on the edge of the curtain which was in the second coupling: the loops were fixed opposite to each other. 
And he made fifty hooks of gold; and he coupled the curtains together one unto the other with the hooks, and the tabernacle became thus one piece. 
And he made curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle; eleven curtains made he the same. 
The length of each curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits was the breadth of each curtain: there was one measure for the eleven curtains. 
And he coupled five of the curtains by themselves, and six of the curtains by themselves. 
And he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was the outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops made he on the edge of the curtain of the second coupling. 
And he made fifty hooks of copper, to couple the tent together that it might be one piece. 
And he made a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of badgers' skins above. 
And he made the boards for the tabernacle, of shittim wood, standing up. 
Ten cubits was the length of each board, and one cubit and a half was the breadth of each one board. 
There were two tenons for every board, fitted in, one against the other: the like made he for all the boards of the tabernacle. 
And he made the boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side, on the right. 
And forty sockets of silver made he under the twenty boards; two sockets under the one board for its two tenons, and two sockets under the other board for its two tenons. 
And for the other side of the tabernacle, for the north side, he made twenty boards: 
And their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under the one board, and two sockets under the other board. 
And for the back wall of the tabernacle, westward, he made six boards. 
And two boards made he for the corners of the tabernacle in the back wall. 
And they were closely fitting beneath, and they were closely joined together on the top, by means of one ring; thus he did to both of them, for both the corners. 
And so there were eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets, two sockets under every board. 
And he made bars of shittim wood; five, for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle; 
And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the back wall, westward. 
And he made the middle bar to pass through the midst of the boards from the one end to the other end. 
And the boards he overlaid with gold, and their rings he made of gold, as receptacles for the bars, and he overlaid the bars with gold. 
And he made the vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet yarn, and twisted linen; of weaver's work made he it, with cherubim. 
And he made thereunto four pillars of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold, their hooks also were of gold; and he cast for them four sockets of silver. 
And he made a hanging for the door of the tabernacle, of blue, and purple, and scarlet yarn, and twisted linen; the work of the embroiderer; 
And its five pillars with their hooks: and he overlaid their tops and made their fillets with gold; and their five sockets were of copper. 
