Numbers.
Chapter 28.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, 
Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My offering, my bread for my sacrifices consumed by fire, for a sweet savor unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in its due season. 
And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall bring unto the Lord: Sheep of the first year without blemish, two on every day, as a continual burnt-offering. 
The one sheep shalt thou prepare in the morning, and the other sheep shalt thou prepare toward evening; 
And a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meat-offering, mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil. 
It is a continual burnt-offering, as it was prepared at mount Sinai, for a sweet savor, a sacrifice made by fire unto the Lord. 
And the drink-offering thereof shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one sheep: in the holy place shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured out as a drink-offering unto the Lord. 
And the other sheep shalt thou prepare toward evening: as the meat-offering of the morning, and as the drink-offering thereof, shalt thou prepare it; an offering made by fire, for a sweet savor unto the Lord. 
And on the sabbath-day two sheep of the first year without blemish, and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, and the drink-offering thereof. 
This is the burnt-offering of the sabbath on every sabbath, besides the continual burnt-offering, and its drink-offering. 
And on the beginnings of your months shall ye bring as a burnt-offering unto the Lord, two young bullocks, and one ram, seven sheep of the first year without blemish. 
And three tenth parts of fine flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, for each one bullock; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, for the one ram; 
And a tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat-offering for every sheep: as a burnt-offering for a sweet savor, a sacrifice made by fire unto the Lord. 
And their drink-offerings shall be half of a hin of wine for each bullock, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and a fourth part of a hin for every sheep: this is the burnt-offering of the new moon for every month throughout the months of the year. 
And one he-goat for a sin-offering unto the Lord; beside the continual burnt-offering shall it be prepared with its drink-offering. 
And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, the passover-lamb must be offered unto the Lord. 
And on the fifteenth day of this month is the feast; seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten. 
On the first day is a holy convocation; no manner of servile work shall ye do; 
And ye shall bring as a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt-offering unto the Lord, two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven sheep of the first year; without blemish shall they be unto you; 
And their meat-offering shall be of fine flour mingled with oil; three tenth parts for each bullock, and two tenth parts for the ram shall ye offer; 
A tenth part each shalt thou offer for every sheep, of the seven sheep; 
And one goat for a sin-offering, to make an atonement for you. 
Besides the burnt-offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt-offering, shall ye prepare these. 
After this manner shall ye prepare daily, throughout the seven days, the food of the sacrifice made by fire, for a sweet savor unto the Lord: besides the continual burnt-offering shall it be prepared with its drink-offering. 
And on the seventh day shall ye have a holy convocation; no servile work shall ye do. 
And on the day of the first-fruits, when ye bring a new meat-offering unto the Lord, after your weeks are out, shall ye have a holy convocation; no servile work shall ye do. 
And ye shall bring as a burnt-offering for a sweet savor unto the Lord, two young bullocks, one ram, seven sheep of the first year; 
And their meat-offering of fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for each one bullock, two tenth parts for the one ram, 
A tenth part each for every sheep, of the seven sheep; 
One he-goat to make an atonement for you: 
Besides the continual burnt-offering and its meat-offering shall ye prepare them; without blemish shall they be unto you together with their drink-offerings. 
