1 Chronicles.
Chapter 2.
These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun, 
Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
The sons of Judah: 'Er, and Onan, and Shelah, the three who were born unto him of the daughter of Shua' the Canaanitess. And 'Er, the first-born of Judah, was evil in the eyes of the Lord: and he slew him. 
And Thamar his daughter-in-law bore unto him Perez and Zerach. All the sons of Judah were five. 
The sons of Perez: Chezron and Chamul. 
And the sons of Zerach: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara'; all of them five. 
And the sons of Carmi: 'Achar the troubler of Israel, who trespassed against the devoted things. 
And the sons of Ethan: 'Azaryah. 
And the sons of Chezron, that were born unto him: Jerachmeel, and Ram, and Kelubai. 
And Ram begat 'Amminadab, and 'Amminadab begat Nachshon, the prince of the children of Judah; 
And Nachshon begat Salma, and Salma begat Bo'az, 
And Bo'az begat 'Obed, and 'Obed begat Jesse, 
And Ishai begat his first-born Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shim'a the third, 
Nathanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, 
Ozem the sixth, David the seventh; 
And their sisters were Zeruyah, and Abigayil. And the sons of Zeruyah: Abshai, and Joab, and 'Assahel, three. 
And Abigayil bore 'Amassa: and the father of 'Amassa was Jether the Ishme'elite. 
And Caleb the son of Chezron begat children of 'Azubah his wife, and of Jeri'oth; and these are her sons: Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon. 
And 'Azubah died, when Caleb took unto himself Ephrath, who bore unto him Chur. 
And Chur begat Uri, and Uri begat Bezalel. 
And afterward came Chezron to the daughter of Machir the father of Gil'ad, and he took her for wife when he was sixty years old: and she bore unto him Segub. 
And Segub begat Jair, who had three and twenty cities in the land of Gil'ad. 
But Geshur and Aram took the small towns of Jair from them, with Kenath, and the villages thereof, even sixty cities. All these belonged to the sons of Machir the father of Gil'ad. 
And after Chezron was dead in Calebephratah, then bore Chezron's wife Abiyah unto him Ashchur the father of Thekoa'. 
And the sons of Jerachmeel the first-born of Chezron were, Ram the first-born, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Achiyah. 
Yerachmeel had also another wife, whose name was 'Atarah; she was the mother of Onam. 
And the sons of Ram the first-born of Jerachmeel were, Ma'az, and Jamin, and 'Eker. 
And the sons of Onam were, Shammai, and Jada'. And the sons of Shammai: Nadab, and Abishur. 
And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abichayil, and she bore unto him Achban, and Molid. 
And the sons of Nadab: Seled, and Appayim; and Seled died without children. 
And the sons of Appayim: Yish'i. And the sons of Yish'i: Sheshan. And the sons of Sheshan: Achlai. 
And the sons of Jada' the brother of Shammai: Jether, and Jonathan; and Jether died without children. 
And the sons of Jonathan: Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerachmeel. 
Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarcha'. 
And Sheshan gave his daughter unto Jarcha' his servant for wife: and she bore unto him 'Attai. 
And 'Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad. 
And Zabad begat Ephlal, and Ephlal begat 'Obed. 
And 'Obed begat Jehu, and Jehu begat 'Azaryah, 
And 'Azaryah begat Chelez, and Chelez begat El'assah, 
And El'assah begat Sissmai, and Sissmai begat Shallum. 
And Shallum begat Jekamyah, and Jekamyah begat Elishama'. 
Now the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerachmeel were, Mesha', his first-born, who was the father of Ziph, and of the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron. 
And the sons of Hebron: Korach, and Thappuach, and Rekem, and Shema'. 
And Shema' begat Racham, the father of Jorke'am; and Rekem begat Shammai. 
And the son of Shammai was Ma'on; and Ma'on was the father of Beth-zur. 
And 'Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bore Charan, and Moza, and Gazez; and Charan begat Gazez. 
And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jotham, and Gesham, and Pelet, and 'Ephah, and Sha'aph. 
Ma'achah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber, and Tirchanah. 
She bore also !!Sha'aph the father of Madmannah. Sheva the father of Machbena, and the father of Gib'a: !!and the daughter of Caleb was 'Achsah. 
These were the sons of Caleb: Benchur, the first-born of Ephratah, Shobal the father of Kiryath-ye'arim, 
Salma the father of Beth-lechem, Chareph the father of Beth-gader. 
And Shobal the father of Kir'yath-ye'arim had sons: Haroeh, and Chazi-hammenuchoth. 
And the families of Kir'yath-ye'arim are the Yithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishra'ites: from these came the Zor'athites, and the Eshthaulites. 
The sons of Salma: Beth-lechem, and the Netophathites, 'Ataroth of the house of Joab, and Chazi-hammanachthi, the Zor'ite. 
And the families of the scribes who dwelt at Jabez: the Thirathites, the Shim'athites, and Suchathites. These are the Kenites that came from Chammath, the father of the house of Rechab. 
