Psalms.
Chapter 107.
BOOK FIFTH: Oh give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good; for unto eternity endureth his kindness. 
Thus let the Lord's redeemed say, even those whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the adversary; 
And whom he hath gathered out of the various lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the sea. 
They wandered about in the wilderness, in the desert path; they could not find an inhabited city: 
Hungry and thirsty, their soul within them fainted. 
Then they cried unto the Lord when they were in distress, and out of their afflictions he delivered them. 
And he led them forth on the right way, that they might go to an inhabited city. 
They therefore shall give thanks unto the Lord for his kindness, and proclaim his wonders to the children of men! 
For he satisfied the longing soul, and the hungry soul he filled with good.— 
Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, bound in misery and fetters of iron;— 
Because they have rebelled against the words of God, and have contemned the counsel of the Most High; 
And he humbled with trouble their heart; they stumbled, and there was none to help; 
But when they cry unto the Lord when they are in distress, he saveth them out of their afflictions; 
He bringeth them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and teareth their bands asunder. 
They therefore shall give thanks unto the Lord for his kindness, and proclaim his wonders to the children of men! 
For he hath broken the doors of copper, and the bolts of iron hath he hewn asunder.— 
Fools, because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted. 
All manner of food their soul abhorreth; and they draw near unto the gates of death; 
But when they cry unto the Lord when they are in distress, he saveth them out of their afflictions. 
He sendeth his word and healeth them, and delivereth them from their graves. 
They therefore shall give thanks unto the Lord for his kindness, and proclaim his wonders to the children of men! 
They shall also sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and relate his deeds with joyful song.— 
They who go down to the sea in ships, who do business on great waters;— 
These have seen the works of the Lord, and his wonders on the deep. 
For he spoke, and he raised the stormy wind, which lifteth up its waves. 
They would mount up to heaven, they would go down to the depths: their soul was melted because of their danger. 
They would reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and all their wisdom was exhausted. 
And they cried unto the Lord when they were in distress, and he brought them out of their afflictions. 
He calmed the storm into a whisper, and stilled were the waves of the sea. 
And they were rejoiced because they were silent: and then he guided them unto their desired haven. 
They therefore shall give thanks unto the Lord for his kindness, and proclaim his wonders to the children of men! 
And they must exalt him in the congregation of the people, and in the assembly of the elders must they praise him.— 
He changeth rivers into a wilderness, and water-springs into parched ground; 
A fruitful land into a salty waste, for the wickedness of those that dwell therein. 
He changeth the wilderness into a pool of water, and desert land into water-springs. 
And there he causeth to dwell the hungry, that they may found an inhabited city; 
And they sow fields, and plant vineyards, that they may yield the fruits of the annual product. 
He also blesseth them, and they multiply greatly, and he suffereth not their cattle to diminish. 
They were also diminished and bowed low through oppression, misfortune, and sorrow: 
He then poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to wander in a pathless wilderness. 
And he exalteth the needy from misery, and maketh his families like flocks. 
The righteous shall see it, and rejoice; but all wickedness shall stop her mouth. 
Whoever is wise, let him observe these things, and let all understand the kindness of the Lord. 
