Proverbs.
Chapter 18.
He that separateth himself from God seeketh his own desires: at every sound wisdom is he enraged. 
A fool hath no delight in understanding, but in laying open what is in his heart. 
When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt, and with dishonorable acts, disgrace. 
Like deep waters are the words of a wise man's mouth, and a bubbling brook is the well-spring of wisdom. 
It is not good to favor the person of the wicked, to wrest the cause of the righteous in judgment. 
The lips of the fool come with contention, and his mouth calleth for blows. 
The mouth of the fool is a destruction to himself, and his lips are the snare of his soul. 
The words of a whisperer are as wounds, and they go down indeed into the innermost parts of the body. 
He also that showeth himself slothful in his work is a brother to the destroyer. 
The name of the Lord is a strong tower, whereunto the righteous runneth, and is placed in safety. 
The rich man's wealth is his strong town, and as a towering wall in his own conceit. 
Before downfall the heart of man becometh haughty, and before honor goeth humility. 
When one returneth an answer before he understandeth the question, it is folly unto him and shame. 
The spirit of a man will readily bear his disease; but a depressed spirit who can bear: 
The heart of the man of understanding will obtain knowledge, and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge. 
A man's gift maketh room for him, and before great men will it lead him. 
He that is first in his cause seemeth just; but when his neighbor cometh, then will it be investigated. 
The lot causeth disputes to cease, and it decideth between the mighty. 
A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong town; and quarrels among brothers are like the bars of a castle. 
From the fruit of a man's mouth is his body satisfied; with the product of his lips doth he satisfy himself. 
Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and they that love it will eat its fruit. 
Whoso hath found a wife hath found happiness, and hath obtained favor from the Lord. 
The poor speaketh entreatingly; but the rich answereth roughly. 
A man's many companions are hurtful to him; but there is many a friend that cleaveth closer than a brother. 
