2 Chronicles.
Chapter 31.
And when all this was finished, all Israel that were present went out to the cities of Judah, and broke in pieces the statues, and cut down the groves, and pulled down the high-places and the altars out of all Judah and Benjamin, and in Ephraim and Menasseh, until they had made an end of them all. Then returned all the children of Israel every man to his possession, to their own cities. 
And Hezekiah stationed the divisions of the priests and the Levites after their divisions, every man according to his service, of the priests and the Levites, for burnt-offerings and for peace-offerings, to minister, and to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the camps of the Lord. 
The king also gave a portion from his own property for the burnt-offerings, namely, for the morning and evening burnt-offerings, and the burnt-offerings for the sabbaths, and for the new-moons, and for the appointed feasts, as it is written in the law of the Lord. 
Moreover he said to the people, to those who dwelt in Jerusalem, to give the portion of the priests and the Levites, in order that they might hold firmly to the law of the Lord. 
And when the matter was spread abroad, the children of Israel brought in abundance the first-fruits of corn, of the new wine, and of oil, and of honey, and of all the products of the field: and the tithe of all things did they bring likewise in abundance. 
And as for the children of Israel and Judah, that dwelt in the cities of Judah, they also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep, and the tithe of holy things which were hallowed unto the Lord their God, and gave them by heaps. 
In the third month did they begin to lay the foundation of the heaps, and in the seventh month did they finish them. 
And when Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they blessed the Lord, and his people Israel. 
Then made Hezekiah inquiry of the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps. 
Then spoke to him 'Azaryahu the chief priest of the house of Zadok, and said, Since it was begun to bring the heave-offerings into the house of the Lord, there hath been enough to eat, and to leave in great abundance; for the Lord hath blessed his people: and that which is left is this great mass. 
Then ordered Hezekiah to prepare chambers in the house of the Lord: and they prepared them. 
And they brought in the heave-offerings, and the tithes, and the sanctified things, in faithfulness: and over them were appointed the ruler Conanyahu the Levite, and Shim'i his brother the second in rank. 
And Jechiel, and 'Azazyahu, and Nachath, and 'Assahel, and Jerimoth. and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Yissmachyahu, and Machath, and Benayahu, were overseers under the supervision of Conanyahu and Shim'i his brother, by the appointment of king Hezekiah, and 'Azazyahu the ruler of the house of God. 
And Kore the son of Yimnah the Levite, the gatekeeper at the east side. was over the freewill-offerings of God, to give to him the heave-offerings of the Lord, and the most holy things. 
And under his supervision were 'Eden, and Minyamin, and Jeshua', and Shema-yahu, Amaryahu, and Shechanyahu, in the cities of the priests, in faithfulness, to give to their brethren after the divisions, equally to the great as to the small; 
Besides these to those recorded by their genealogies of males, from three years old and upward, of all that entered into the house of the Lord, the daily portion on its day, for their service in their charges according to their divisions. 
And likewise to the priests recorded by their genealogies after their family divisions, and the Levites from twenty years old and upward, in their charges by their divisions; 
And to those recorded by their genealogies of all their little ones, their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, of all the assembly; for in their faithfulness they devoted themselves in the sanctuary. 
Also of the sons of Aaron the priests, who were in the fields of the open districts of their cities, in each and every city, there were men, expressed by name, who had to give portions to all the males among the priests, and to all that were recorded by their genealogies among the Levites. 
And the like did Hezekiah in all Judah, and he did what is good and right and true before the Lord his God. 
And in every work that he began in the service of the house of God, and in the law, and in the commandments, to seek his God, he acted with all his heart, and prospered. 
