Psalms.
Chapter 136.
O give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
O give thanks unto the God of gods; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
O give thanks to the Lord of lords; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
To him who doth great wonders alone; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
To him that made the heavens with understanding; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
To him that stretched out the earth above the waters; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
To him that made great lights; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
The sun for the rule by day; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
The moon and stars for the rule by night; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
To him that smote Egypt in their first-born; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
And brought out Israel from the midst of them; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
With a strong hand, and with an outstretched arm; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
To him who divided the Red Sea into parts; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
And caused Israel to pass through the midst of it; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
To him who led his people through the wilderness; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
To him who smote great kings; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
And slew mighty kings; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
Even Sichon the king of the Emorites; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
And 'Og the king of Bashan; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
And gave their land as an inheritance; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
As an inheritance unto Israel his servant; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
Who hath in our low estate remembered us; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
And hath freed us from our assailants; for to eternity endureth his kindness; 
Who giveth food unto all flesh; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
O give thanks unto the God of the heavens; for to eternity endureth his kindness. 
