Genesis.
Chapter 45.
Then could Joseph not refrain himself before all those that stood by him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there remained no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his brothers. 
And he raised his voice in weeping; and the Egyptians heard it, and the house of Pharaoh heard it. 
And Joseph said unto his brothers, I am Joseph; doth my father yet live? And his brothers could not answer him; for they were terrified at his presence. 
And Joseph said unto his brothers, Come near to me, I pray you; and they came near; and he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt. 
But now be not grieved, nor be angry with yourselves, that ye sold me hither; for in order to preserve life did God send me before you. 
For these two years hath the famine been already in the land; and there are yet five years, in which there will be neither ploughing nor harvesting. 
And God hath thus sent me before you to prepare for you a permanence on the earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance. 
So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God; and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and a lord for all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. 
Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, Thus hath said thy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt; come down unto me, tarry not. 
And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shalt be near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children's children, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that is thine. 
And I will maintain thee there; for there are yet five years of famine; lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to poverty. 
And, behold, your own eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you. 
And ye shall tell my father of all my honor in Egypt, and of all that ye have seen; and ye shall hasten and bring down my father hither. 
And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck, and wept; and Benjamin wept upon his neck. 
And he kissed all his brothers, and wept upon them; and after that his brothers spoke with him. 
And the report thereof was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying, Joseph's brothers are come; and it was pleasing in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants. 
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brothers, This do ye; load your beasts, and go, get you unto the land of Canaan; 
And take your father and your households, and come unto me; and I will give you the best of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of the land. 
And thou art commanded, This do ye, take unto yourselves out of the land of Egypt wagons for your little ones, and for your wives, and take up your father, and come. 
And do ye feel no concern on account of your household goods; for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours. 
And the children of Israel did so; and Joseph gave them wagons, according to the command of Pharaoh; and he gave them provision for the way. 
To all of them he gave to each changes of raiment; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of raiment. 
And to his father he sent after this manner: ten asses laden with the best things of Egypt, and ten she-asses laden with corn and bread and other food for his father, for the journey. 
And he accompanied his brothers on the way, and they departed: and he said unto them, Do not fall out by the way. 
And they went out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan, unto Jacob their father. 
And they told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive; and that he is governor over all the land of Egypt. But his heart remained cold, for he believed them not. 
But when they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said unto them; and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him: the spirit of Jacob their father revived. 
And Israel said, Enough; Joseph my son is yet alive: I will go and see him before I die. 
