Jeremiah.
Chapter 2.
And the word of the Lord came to me, saying, 
Go and call out before the ears of Jerusalem, saying, Thus hath said the Lord, I remember unto thee, the kindness of thy youth, the love of thy espousals, thy going after me in the wilderness, through a land that is not sown. 
A holy thing is Israel unto the Lord, the first of his fruits: all that devour him shall incur guilt; evil shall come over them, saith the Lord. 
Hear ye the word of the Lord, O house of Jacob, and all ye families of the house of Israel. 
Thus hath said the Lord, What fault did your fathers find in me, that they went away far from me, and walked after vanity, and became vain? 
That they said not, Where is the Lord that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, that led us through the wilderness, through a land of deserts and of wildness, through a land of drought, and of the shadow of death, through a land through which no one had passed, and where no man had dwelt? 
And I brought you into the land of fruitful fields, to eat its fruit and its goodly products; but ye came and ye made unclean my land, and my heritage ye rendered an abomination. 
The priests said not, Where is the Lord? and they that handle the law knew me not; and the shepherds transgressed against me, and the prophets prophesied in the name of Ba'al, and after things that cannot profit did they walk. 
Therefore will I contend yet farther with you, saith the Lord, and with your children's children will I contend. 
For pass over to the isles of the Chittites, and see; and unto Kedar send, and consider well and see if any thing like this hath happened. 
Hath a nation exchanged its gods, which are yet no gods? and still my people hath exchanged its glory for that which can not profit. 
Be astonished, O ye heavens, at this, and let your hair stand at an end, be ye greatly terrified, saith the Lord. 
For two evils have my people committed: me have they forsaken, the source of living waters, to hew out for themselves cisterns, broken cisterns, that cannot hold water. 
Is Israel a servant? or one born to servitude in the house? why hath he been given up to plunder? 
That over him young lions roared, let their voice resound, and changed his land into a waste, that his cities are burnt, left without an inhabitant? 
Even the children of Noph and Thachpanches have crushed the crown of thy head. 
Hast thou not procured this unto thyself, through thy forsaking the Lord thy God, while he was leading thee on the right way? 
And now what hast thou to do on the way of Egypt, to drink the waters of Shichor? and what hast thou to do on the way of Asshur, to drink the waters of the river? 
Thy own wickedness shall chastise thee, and thy backslidings shall correct thee; and thou shalt know and see that evil and bitter was thy forsaking the Lord thy God, while the dread of me was not upon thee, saith the Lord Eternal of hosts. 
Because from yore did I break thy yoke, did I burst asunder thy bands; and thou saidst, I will not transgress: nevertheless upon every high hill and under every green tree thou makest thy bed, as harlot. 
Yet I had planted thee as a branch of a noble vine, wholly of the proper seed; but how art thou changed unto me into a degenerate plant of an ignoble vine? 
For though thou wash thyself with natron, and take for thyself much soap: yet would the stain of thy iniquity remain before me, saith the Lord Eternal. 
How canst thou say, I am not become unclean, after the Be'alim have I not gone? see thy way in the valley, know what thou hast done: like a swift dromedary bound fast to her ways; 
Like a wild ass used to the wilderness, that at her pleasure snuffeth up the wind; her lust—who can turn this away? all they that seek her will not weary themselves; in her month will they find her. 
“Prevent thy foot from being unshod, and thy throat from being thirsty;” but thou saidst, It is useless; no, for I have loved strangers, and after them will I go. 
As the thief is ashamed when he is found, so have the house of Israel been made ashamed, they, their kings, their princes, and their priests, and their prophets, 
Who say to the wood, Thou art my father; and to the stone, Thou hast brought us forth; for they have turned their back unto me, and not their face; but in the time of their misfortune will they say, Arise, and save us. 
But where are then thy gods that thou hast made for thyself? let them arise, if they can save thee in the time of thy misfortune; for equal to the number of thy cities were thy gods, O Judah. 
Wherefore will ye contend with me? all of you have transgressed against me, saith the Lord. 
To no purpose have I smitten your children; correction they accepted not: your sword hath devoured your prophets, like a destroying lion. 
O present generation, regard ye the word of the Lord. Have I been a wilderness unto Israel? a land of deep darkness? wherefore say my people, We wander about; we cannot come any more unto thee? 
Can a virgin forget her ornament, or a bride her decorations? yet my people have forgotten me days without number. 
Why ornamentest thou thy way to seek for love? truly even the worst hast thou used thyself as thy ways. 
Also on thy skirts is found the blood of the souls of the innocent needy ones: not while breaking in thy house didst thou find them; but for all these things. 
Yet thou sayest, Yea, I am innocent, surely his anger is already turned away from me. Behold, I will hold judgment with thee, because thou sayest, I have not sinned. 
Why makest thou thyself so very low to change thy way? also because of Egypt shalt thou be made ashamed, as thou wast put to shame because of Assyria. 
Also from this one shalt thou go forth, with thy hands clasped over thy head; for the Lord hath rejected those on whom thou trustest and thou shalt not prosper with them. 
