Isaiah.
Chapter 42.
Behold my servant, whom I will uphold; my elect, in whom my soul delighteth: I have put my spirit upon him, that he may bring forth justice to the nations. 
He shall not cry, nor call out aloud, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. 
A cracked reed will he not break, and a dimly burning wick will he not quench: unto truth shall he bring forth justice. 
He shall not become fatigued and not be faint, till he have established justice on earth; and the isles shall wait for his law. 
Thus hath said God the Lord, he that created the heavens, and stretched them out; he that spread forth the earth, and the things which come out of it; he that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and spirit to those that walk thereon: 
I the Lord have called thee in righteousness, and will lay hold on thy hand, and will keep thee, and appoint thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the nations; 
To open blind eyes, to bring out from the dungeon the prisoner, and out of the prison-house those that dwell in darkness. 
I am the Everlasting One, that is my name; and my glory will I not give to any other, nor my praise to graven images. 
The former things, behold, are come to pass; and new things do I announce; before they spring forth I let you hear of them. 
Sing unto the Lord a new song, his praise from the end of the earth; ye that go down to the sea, and all that filleth it; the isles, and their inhabitants. 
Let resound with song the wilderness and its cities, the villages which Kedar inhabiteth: let the inhabitants of the rocks sing, let them shout forth from the top of the mountains. 
Let them give glory unto the Lord, and in the islands declare his praise. 
The Lord—as a mighty one will he go forth, like a man of war will he arouse his vengeance: he will shout, yea, raise the war-cry; against his enemies will he show his strength. 
I have a long time held my peace; I have been still, and refrained myself: now like a travailing woman will I cry; I will destroy and devour all together. 
I will lay waste mountains and hills, and all their herbs will I dry up; and I will change the rivers into islands, and pools will I dry up. 
And I will cause the blind to walk on a way that they have not known; on paths that they have not known will I lead them: I will change darkness before them into light, and crooked places into plains. These are the things which I will do, and not leave them unfulfilled. 
They shall be turned back, they shall be ashamed, that trust in graven images, that say to molten idols, Ye are our gods. 
Ye deaf, hear; and ye blind, look up, that ye may see. 
Who is blind, but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger whom I send? who is blind as he that is perfect, and blind as the servant of the Lord? 
Thou seest many things, but observest not; the ears are open, but he heareth not. 
The Lord willed to do this for the sake of his righteousness; therefore he magnifieth the law, and maketh it honorable. 
But it is a people robbed and spoiled; they are all of them ensnared in holes, and in prison-houses are they hidden: they are become for a prey, and none delivereth; for a spoil, and none saith, Restore. 
Who among you will give ear to this? will hearken and listen, for the time to come? 
Who gave up Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to plunderers? was it not the Lord? he it is against whom we have sinned; for they would not walk in his ways, neither did they hearken unto his law. 
Therefore hath he poured out over him the fury of his anger, and the strength of battle: and it blazed all round about him, yet he regarded it not; and it burnt on him, yet he laid it not to heart. 
