Exodus.
Chapter 38.
And he made the altar of burnt-offering of shittim wood: five cubits was its length, and five cubits its breadth; it was foursquare, and three cubits was its height. 
And he made its horns on its four corners, from itself were its horns; and he overlaid it with copper. 
And he made all the vessels of the altar, the pots, and the shovels, and the basins, and the forks, and the fire-pans: all its vessels made he of copper. 
And he made for the altar a grating, a network of copper, under its compass beneath, even unto the half of it. 
And he cast four rings on the four corners of the grating of copper, as receptacles for the staves. 
And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with copper. 
And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar, to bear it by means of them; hollow, of boards, made he it. 
And he made the laver of copper, and its foot of copper, of the mirrors of the assembled women who had assembled in troops at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
And he made the court: on the south side, on the right, the hangings of the court were of twisted linen, of one hundred cubits; 
Their pillars were twenty, with their twenty sockets of copper; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. 
And for the north side one hundred cubits; their pillars were twenty, with their twenty sockets of copper; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. 
And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars were ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. 
And for the front side, eastward, fifty cubits. 
Hangings of fifteen cubits, were on the one wing: their pillars were three, and their sockets three. 
And for the other wing, on both sides of the gate of the court, were hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars were three, and their sockets three. 
all the hangings of the court round about were of twisted linen. 
And the sockets for the pillars were of copper; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets, of silver; and the overlaying of their tops was of silver; and all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver. 
And the hanging for the gate of the court was the work of the embroiderer, of blue, and purple, and scarlet yarn, and twisted linen; and twenty cubits was the length, and the height, in the breadth, was five cubits, answering to the hangings of the court. 
And the pillars for the same were four, with their four sockets of copper; their hooks were of silver, and the overlaying of their tops and their fillets, of silver. 
And all the pins of the tabernacle, and of the court round about were of copper. 
These are the accounts of the articles furnished for the tabernacle, even of the tabernacle of the testimony, which were counted, according to the order of Moses, the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron, the priest. 
And Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Chur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And with him was Aholiab the son of Achissamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, and a skilful weaver, and an embroiderer in blue, and in purple, and in scarlet yarn, and in linen thread. 
All the gold that was applied to the work in all the work of the sanctuary, to wit, the gold of the offering, was twenty and nine talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary. 
And the silver of those that were numbered of the congregation was one hundred talents, and a thousand seven hundred and seventy and five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary: 
A bekah for every head, that is, half a shekel, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for every one that went to be numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty. 
And the hundred talents of silver served to cast the sockets of the sanctuary, and the sockets of the vail: one hundred sockets to the hundred talents, a talent for every socket. 
And of the thousand seven hundred and seventy and five shekels he made hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their tops and filleted them. 
And the copper of the offering was seventy talents, and two thousand and four hundred shekels. 
And he made therewith the sockets of the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar of copper, and the grating of copper for it, and all the vessels of the altar; 
And the sockets of the court round about, and the socket of the court gate, and all the pins of the tabernacle, and all the pins of the court round about. 
