Psalms.
Chapter 10.
Wherefore, O Lord, standest thou afar off? hidest thyself in times of distress? 
In the pride of the wicked doth he hotly pursue the poor: they are seized through the plans that those have devised. 
For the wicked boasteth of the longing of his soul, and the robber blesseth himself when he hath despised the Lord. 
The wicked, according to the pride of his wrathfulness, saith, He will not require, There is no God in all his plans. 
Prosperous are his ways at all times; far in the height remain thy punishments away from him: all his assailants—he puffeth at them. 
He saith in his heart, I shall not be moved; I shall be for many generations, and without adversity. 
Of the false oaths is his mouth full, and deceit and fraud: under his tongue is mischief and wickedness. 
He sitteth in the lurking-places of the villages; in the secret places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes search for the unfortunate. 
He lieth in wait in a secret place like a lion in his den; he lieth in wait to snatch up the poor: he snatcheth up the poor, as they draweth him into his net. 
He croucheth, he bendeth himself, and the unfortunate fall through his might. 
He saith in his heart, God hath forgotten; he hath hidden his face; he will never see it. 
Arise, O Lord; O God, lift up thy hand: forget not the afflicted. 
For what doth the wicked despise God? why doth he say in his heart, Thou wilt not require it? 
Thou hast seen it: for thou beholdest mischief and despiteful acts, to requite it with thy hand: unto thee the unfortunate committeth himself; unto the fatherless hast thou ever been a helper. 
Break thou the arm of the wicked; and of the bad man—thou wilt inquire for his wickedness till thou find none. 
The Lord is King for ever and ever: nations are perished out of his land. 
The longing of the afflicted dost thou hear, O Lord! thou wilt strengthen their heart, thou wilt cause thy ear to listen: 
To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that not farther more shall be arrogant the mortal from the earth. 
