1 Samuel.
Chapter 21.
(21:2) And David came to Nob to Achimelech the priest; and Achimelech hastened trembling to meet David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man is with thee? 
(21:3) And David said unto Achimelech the priest, The king commanded me a business, and said unto me, Let not any man know the least of the business concerning which I send thee, and which I have commanded thee. And the young men have I appointed to such and such a place. 
(21:4) And now what hast thou on hand: put five loaves of bread into my hand, or what else can be found. 
(21:5) And the priest answered David, and said, I have no common bread on hand, but there is hallowed bread; if the young men have only withheld themselves from women. 
(21:6) And David answered the priest and said to him, To a certainty women have been denied us yesterday and the day before, when I went forth, and the vessels of the young men were holy: and if this was the custom with unholy things, how much more will it remain this day holy in the vessels. 
(21:7) So the priest gave him hallowed bread; for there was no bread there except the showbread, that was removed from before the Lord, so as to put down hot bread on the day when it was taken away. 
(21:8) Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there on that day, detained before the Lord; and his name was Doeg, the Edomite, the chief of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul. 
(21:9) And David said unto Achimelech, Hast thou not also here at hand a spear or sword: for both my sword as also my other weapons have I not brought with me, because the king's business was urgent. 
(21:10) And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou didst slay in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here wrapped up in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take that for thyself, take it; for there is no other save it here. And David said, There is none like that: give it to me. 
(21:11) And David arose, and fled on that day from before Saul, and came to Achish the king of Gath. 
(21:12) And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not of this man sing one to another in the dances, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands? 
(21:13) And David took these words to his heart, and was greatly afraid of Achish the king of Gath. 
(21:14) And he disguised his reason before their eyes, and played the madman in their hands, and scribbled on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle run down upon his beard. 
(21:15) Then said Achish unto his servants, Lo, ye see, the man is mad: wherefore then will ye bring him to me? 
(21:16) Have I lack of madmen, that ye have brought this man to play his pranks about me? shall this one come into my house? 
