The First Book of the Chronicles.
Chapter 1.
Adam, Sheth, Enosh, 
Kenan, Mehalalel, Jered, 
Enoch, Methushelah, Lemech, 
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Thubal, and Meshech, and Thirass. 
And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenas, and Diphath, and Thogarmah. 
And the sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tharshishah, Kittim, and Rodanim. 
The sons of Ham: Cush, and Misrayim, Put, and Canaan. 
And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Chavilah, and Sabta, and Ra'mah, and Sabtecha. And the sons of Ra'mah: Sheba, and Dedan. 
And Cush begat Nimrod: this one began to be a mighty man upon the earth. 
And Mizrayim begat the Ludim, and there the 'Anamim, and the Lehabim, and the Naphtuchim, 
And the Pathrussim, and the Cassluchim, of whom came the Philistines, and the Caphthorim. 
And Canaan begat Zidon, his first-born, and Heth. 
And the Jebusite, and the Emorite, and the Girgashite, 
And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 
And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Chamathite. 
The sons of Shem: 'Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram, and 'Uz, and Chul, and Gether, and Meshech. 
And Arpachshad begat Shelach, and Shelach begat 'Eber. 
And unto 'Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg; because in his days the earth was divided; and his brother's name was Joktan. 
And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Chazarmaveth, and Jerach, 
And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
And 'Ebal and Abimael, and Sheba, 
And Ophir, and Chavilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan. 
Shem, Arpachshad, Shelach, 
'Eber, Peleg, Re'u, 
Serug, Nachor, Terach, 
Abram, the same is Abraham. 
The sons of Abraham: Isaac, and Ishma'el. 
These are their generations: The first-born of Ishma'el, Nebayoth, then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 
Mishma', and Dumah, Massa, Chadad, and Thema, 
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishma'el. 
And the sons of Keturah, the concubine of Abraham: she bore Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Yishbak, and Shuach. And the sons Jokshan: Sheba, and Dedan. 
And the sons of Midian: 'Ephah, and 'Epher, and Chanoch, and Abida', and Elda'ah. All these are the sons of Keturah. 
And Abraham begat Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel. 
The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Re'uel, and Ye'ush, and Ya'lam, and Korach. 
The sons of Eliphaz: Theman, and Omar, Zephi, and Ga'tam, Kenas, and Thimna', and 'Amalek. 
The sons of Re'uel: Nachath, Zerach, Shammah, and Mizzah. 
And the sons of Se'ir: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zib'on, and 'Anah, and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan. 
And the sons of Lotan: Chori, and Homam: and the sister of Lotan: Thimna'. 
The sons of Shobal: 'Alyan, and Manachath, and 'Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zib'on: 'Ayah, and 'Anah. 
The sons of 'Anah: Dishon. And the sons of Dishon: Chamran, and Eshban, and Yithran, and Cheran. 
The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Za'avan, and Ja'akan. The sons of Dishan: 'Uz, and Aran. 
And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom before there reigned any king over the children of Israel: Bela' the son of Be'or; and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
And Bela' died, and there reigned in his stead Jobab the son of Zerach of Bozrah. 
And Jobab died, and there reigned in his stead Chusham of the land of Theman. 
And Chusham died and there reigned in his stead Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab; and the name of his city was 'Avith. 
And Hadad died, and there reigned in his stead Samlah of Massrekah. 
And Samlah died, and there reigned in his stead Saul of Rechoboth by the river. 
And Saul died, and there reigned in his stead Ba'al-chanan the son of 'Achbor. 
And Ba'al-chanan died, and there reigned in his stead Hadad; and the name of his city was Pa'i; and the name of his wife was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Me-zahab. 
Hadad died also. And the dukes of Edom were: Thimna', duke 'Alvah, duke Jetheth, 
Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon, 
Duke Kenas, duke Theman, duke Mibzar, 
Duke Magdiel, duke 'Iram. These are the dukes of Edom. 
