Job.
Chapter 27.
And Job continued taking up his parable, and said, 
As God liveth, who hath removed justice from me; and by the Almighty, who hath embittered my soul: 
All the while my breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my nostrils; 
Shall my lips not speak any wrong, nor shall my tongue utter deceit. 
Far be it from me that I should justify you; till I depart hence will I not allow any one to take my integrity away from me. 
I have laid fast hold on my righteousness, and I will not let it go: my heart shall not reproach me for my conduct during all my life. 
Like the wicked is therefore my enemy, and he that riseth up against me like a wrong-doer. 
For what is the hope of the hypocrite, when he hath gained unjust wealth, when God casteth forth his soul? 
Will God hear his cry, when distress cometh upon him? 
Or can he find delight in the Almighty? can he call on God at all times? 
I will instruct you concerning what is in the hand of God: the way which is with the Almighty will I not conceal. 
Lo! ye yourselves have all beheld it: why is it then that ye deal in such vanities? 
This is the portion of a wicked man with God, and the portion of tyrants, which they shall receive from the Almighty. 
If his children be multiplied, it is only for the sword; and his offspring will not be satisfied with bread. 
Those of his that are left to escape will be buried by death; and his widows will not be able to weep. 
Though he heap up silver as the dust, and prepare garments as plentifully as the clay: 
He may prepare, but the righteous will clothe himself therewith, and the silver the innocent will divide. 
He buildeth his house like the moth, and like a hut that a keeper hath made. 
Rich will he lie down, but will not be gathered into the grave: one openeth his eyes, and he is no more. 
Like a flood will terror overtake him, in the night a tempest will steal him away. 
The east wind will lift him up, and he must be gone; and it hurleth him like a storm out of his place. 
And God will cast evil upon him, and bare no pity: out of his hand his wealth will surely escape. 
Men will clap their hands over him, and will hiss after him out of his place. 
