Numbers.
Chapter 2.
And the Lord spoke unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 
Every man by his own standard, by the ensign of their family division, shall the children of Israel pitch their tent; at some distance round about the tabernacle of the congregation shall they encamp. 
And they, who encamp on the east, toward the rising of the sun, shall be those who belong to the standard of the camp of Judah according to their armies: and the prince of the children of Judah shall be Nachshon the son of 'Amminadab. 
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were seventy and four thousand and six hundred. 
And those that encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of Issachar: and the prince of the children of Issachar shall be Nethanel the son of Zuar. 
And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred. 
Then the tribe of Zebulun: and the prince of the children of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Chelon. 
And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and seven thousand and four hundred. 
All that were numbered of the camp of Judah were one hundred thousand and eighty thousand and six thousand and four hundred, according to their armies: they shall first set forward. 
The standard of the camp of Reuben shall be on the south side, according to their armies: and the prince of the children of Reuben shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur. 
And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were forty and six thousand and five hundred. 
And those that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Simeon: and the prince of the children of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of 'Zurishaddai. 
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fifty and nine thousand and three hundred. 
Then the tribe of Gad: and the prince of the sons of Gad shall be Elyassaph the son of Reuel. 
And his host, and those who were numbered of them, were forty and five thousand and six hundred and fifty. 
All that were numbered of the camp of Reuben were one hundred thousand and fifty and one thousand and four hundred and fifty, according to their armies; and as the second shall they set forward. 
Then shall the tabernacle of the congregation, the camp of the Levites, set forward in the midst of the camps: as they encamp, so shall they set forward, every man in his place after their standards. 
The standard of the camp of Ephraim shall be on the west side, according to their armies: and the prince of the sons of Ephraim shall be Elishama the son of 'Ammihud. 
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty thousand and five hundred. 
And by him shall be the tribe of Menasseh; and the prince of the children of Menasseh shall be Gamliel the son of Pedahzur. 
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thirty and two thousand and two hundred. 
Then the tribe of Benjamin: and the prince of the sons of Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gidoni. 
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thirty and five thousand and four hundred. 
All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were one hundred thousand and eight thousand and one hundred, according to their armies; and as the third shall they set forward. 
The standard of the camp of Dan shall be on the north side, according to their armies: and the prince of the children of Dan shall be Achiezer the son of 'Ammishaddai. 
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were sixty and two thousand and seven hundred. 
And those that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Asher: and the prince of the children of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of 'Ochran. 
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty and one thousand and five hundred. 
Then the tribe of Naphtali: and the prince of the children of Naphtali shall be Achira the son of 'Enan. 
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fifty and three thousand and four hundred. 
All those that were numbered of the camp of Dan were one hundred thousand and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred; the hindmost shall they set forward according to their standards. 
These are those that were numbered of the children of Israel according to their family divisions: and all those that were numbered of the camps, according to their armies, were six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty. 
But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel; as the Lord had commanded Moses. 
And the children of Israel did all just as the Lord had commanded Moses, so did they encamp by their standards, and so did they set forward every one after his family, by his division. 
