Isaiah.
Chapter 61.
The Spirit of the Lord Eternal is upon me; because the Lord hath anointed me to announce good tidings unto the meek: he hath sent me to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim to captives Liberty, and to prisoners Release; 
To proclaim a year of favor of the Lord, and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all mourners; 
To grant unto the mourners of Zion,—to give unto them ornament in the place of ashes, oil of gladness in the place of mourning, garments of praise in the place of a grieved spirit; that they may be called, Oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified. 
And they shall build up the ancient ruins, desolate places of former times shall they raise up, and they shall renew ruined cities, the desolate places of many generations. 
And strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and the sons of the alien shall be your ploughmen and your vintners. 
But ye, ye shall be called, Priests of the Lord; Ministers of our God, shall be said unto you: the wealth of nations shall ye consume, and in their glory shall ye be placed as possessors. 
In the place of your twofold shame,—and the confusion of which they loudly complained as their portion: therefore in their land shall they possess a twofold portion; everlasting joy shall be granted unto them. 
For I the Lord love justice, I hate robbery with burnt-offering: therefore will I give them the recompense of their work in truth, and an everlasting covenant will I make with them. 
And among the nations shall their seed be known, and their offspring in the midst of the people: all that see them shall acknowledge them, that they are the seed whom the Lord hath blessed. 
I will be greatly glad in the Lord, my soul shall be joyful in my God; for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation, with the mantle of righteousness hath he enveloped me, as a bridegroom decketh himself with elegant attire, and as a bride adorneth herself with her bridal array. 
For, as the earth bringeth forth her growth, and as a garden causeth what is sown therein to spring forth: thus will the Lord Eternal cause righteousness and praise to spring forth in the presence of all the nations. 
