Chronicles II.
Chapter 17.
And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and Jehoshaphat strengthened himself against Israel. 
And he put garrisons in all the strong cities of Judah, and appointed captains in all the cities of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa his father had taken. 
And the Lord was with Jehoshaphat, for he walked in the first ways of his father, and did not seek to idols; 
but he sought to the Lord God of his father, and walked in the commandments of his father, and not according to the works of Israel. 
And the Lord prospered the kingdom in his hand; and all Judah gave gifts to Jehoshaphat; and he had great wealth and glory. 
And his heart was exalted in the way of the Lord; and he removed the high places and the groves from the land of Judah. 
And in the third year of his reign, he sent his chief men, and his mighty men, Obadiah and Zechariah, and Nethanel, and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah. 
And with them were the Levites, Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, Levites, and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests. 
And they taught in Judah, and there was with them the book of the law of the Lord, and they passed through the cities of Judah, and taught the people. 
And a terror of the Lord was upon all the kingdoms of the land round about Judah, and they made no war against Jehoshaphat. 
And some of the Philistines brought to Jehoshaphat gifts, and silver, and presents; and the Arabians brought him seven thousand seven hundred rams. 
And Jehoshaphat increased in greatness exceedingly, and built in Judea places of abode, and strong cities. 
And he had many works in Judea: and the mighty men of war, the men of strength, were in Jerusalem. 
And this is their number according to the houses of their fathers; even the captains of thousands in Judah were, Adnah the chief, and with him mighty men of strength three hundred thousand. 
And after him, Jehohanan the captain, and with him two hundred and eighty thousand. 
And after him Amasiah the son of Zichri, who was zealous for the Lord; and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of strength. 
And out of Benjamin there was a mighty man of strength, even Eliada, and with him two hundred thousand archers and targeteers. 
And after him Jozabad, and with him a hundred and eighty thousand mighty men of war. 
These were the king’s servants, besides those whom the king put in the strong cities in all Judea. 
