Judges.
Chapter 4.
And the children of Israel continued to do evil against the Lord; and Ehud was dead. 
And the Lord sold the children of Israel into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who ruled in Hazor; and the chief of his host was Sisera, and he dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles. 
And the children of Israel cried to the Lord, because he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and he mightily oppressed Israel twenty years. 
And Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth—she judged Israel at that time. 
And she sat under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in Mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel went up to her for judgment. 
And Deborah sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedesh-naphtali, and she said to him, Has not the Lord God of Israel commanded thee? and thou shalt depart to Mount Tabor, and shalt take with thyself ten thousand men of the sons of Naphtali and of the sons of Zebulun. 
And I will bring to thee to the torrent of Kishon Sisera the captain of the host of Jabin, and his chariots, and his multitude, and I will deliver them into thy hands. 
And Barak said to her, If thou wilt go with me, I will go; and if thou wilt not go, I will not go; for I know not the day on which the Lord prospers his messenger with me. 
And she said, I will surely go with thee; but know that thy honor shall not attend on the expedition on which thou goest, for the Lord shall sell Sisera into the hands of a woman: and Deborah arose, and went with Barak out of Kedesh. 
And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali out of Kedesh, and there went up at his feet ten thousand men, and Deborah went up with him. 
And Heber the Kenite had removed from Caina, from the sons of Jobab the father-in-law of Moses, and pitched his tent by the oak of the covetous ones, which is near Kedesh. 
And it was told Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam was gone up to Mount Tabor. 
And Sisera summoned all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron and all the people with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles to the brook of Kishon. 
And Deborah said to Barak, Rise up, for this is the day on which the Lord has delivered Sisera into thy hand, for the Lord shall go forth before thee: and Barak went down from Mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him. 
And the Lord discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his army, with the edge of the sword before Barak: and Sisera descended from off his chariot, and fled on his feet. 
And Barak pursued after the chariots and after the army, into Harosheth of the Gentiles; and the whole army of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword, there was not one left. 
And Sisera fled on his feet to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite his friend: for there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite. 
And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said to him, Turn aside, my lord, turn aside to me, fear not: and he turned aside to her into the tent; and she covered him with a mantle. 
And Sisera said to her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink, for I am thirsty: and she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him to drink, and covered him. 
And Sisera said to her, Stand now by the door of the tent, and it shall come to pass if any man come to thee, and ask of thee, and say, Is there any man here? then thou shalt say, There is not. 
And Jael the wife of Heber took a pin of the tent, and took a hammer in her hand, and went secretly to him, and fastened the pin in his temple, and it went through to the earth, and he fainted away, and darkness fell upon him and he died. 
And, behold, Barak was pursuing Sisera: and Jael went out to meet him, and she said to him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest: and he went in to her; and, behold, Sisera was fallen dead, and the pin was in his temple. 
So God routed Jabin king of Canaan in that day before the children of Israel. 
And the hand of the children of Israel prevailed more and more against Jabin king of Canaan, until they utterly destroyed Jabin king of Canaan. 
