Chronicles I.
Chapter 3.
Now these were the sons of David that were born to him in Hebron; the firstborn Amnon, born of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second Daniel, of Abigail the Carmelitess. 
The third, Absalom, the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith. 
The fifth, Shephatiah, the son of Abital; the sixth, Ithream, born of Eglah his wife. 
Six were born to him in Hebron; and he reigned there seven years and six months: and he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem. 
And these were born to him in Jerusalem; Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon; four of Bathsheba the daughter of Ammiel: 
and Ibhar, and Elishama, and Eliphelet, 
and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia, 
and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine. 
All these were the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines, and there was also Tamar their sister. 
The sons of Solomon; Rehoboam, Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son, 
Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son, 
Amaziah his son, Uzziah his son, Jotham his son, 
Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son, 
Amon his son, Josiah his son. 
And the sons of Josiah; the firstborn Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum. 
And the sons of Jehoiakim; Jechoniah his son, Zedekiah his son. 
And the sons of Jechoniah; Asir, Shealtiel his son, 
Malchiram, and Pedaiah, and Shenazzar, and Jekamiah, and Hoshama, and Nedabiah. 
And the sons of Pedaiah; Zerubbabel, and Shimei: and the sons of Zerubbabel; Meshullam, and Hananiah, and Shelomith was their sister. 
And Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, and Jushab-hesed, five. 
And the sons of Hananiah, Pelatiah, and Jeshaiah his son, Rephaiah his son, Arnan his son, Obadiah his son, Shecaniah his son. 
And the son of Shecaniah; Shemaiah: and the sons of Shemaiah; Hattush, and Igal, and Bariah and Neariah, and Shaphat, six. 
And the sons of Neariah: Elioenai, and Hizkiah, and Azrikam, three. 
And the sons of Elioenai; Hodaviah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seven. 
