Kings II.
Chapter 4.
And Ish-bosheth the son of Saul heard that Abner the son of Ner had died in Hebron; and his hands were paralyzed, and all the men of Israel grew faint. 
And Ish-bosheth the son of Saul had two men that were captains of bands: the name of the one was Baanah, and the name of the other Rechab, sons of Rimmon the Beerothite of the children of Benjamin; for Beeroth was reckoned to the children of Benjamin. 
And the Beerothites ran away to Gittaim, and were sojourners there until this day. 
And Jonathan Saul’s son had a son lame of his feet, five years old, and he was in the way when the news of Saul and Jonathan his son came from Jezreel, and his nurse took him up, and fled; and it came to pass as he hastened and retreated, that he fell, and was lamed. And his name was Mephibosheth. 
And Rechab and Baanah the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite went, and they came in the heat of the day into the house of Ish-bosheth; and he was sleeping on a bed at noon. 
And, behold, the porter of the house winnowed wheat, and he slumbered and slept: and the brothers Rechab and Baanah went privily into the house: 
and Ish-bosheth was sleeping on his bed in his chamber: and they smite him, and slay him, and take off his head: and they took his head, and went all the night by the western road. 
And they brought the head of Ish-bosheth to David to Hebron, and they said to the king, Behold the head of Ish-bosheth the son of Saul thy enemy, who sought thy life; and the Lord has executed for my lord the king vengeance on his enemies, as it is this day: even on Saul thy enemy, and on his seed. 
And David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, and said to them, As the Lord lives, who has redeemed my soul out of all affliction; 
he that reported to me that Saul was dead, even he was as one bringing glad tidings before me: but I seized him and slew him in Ziklag, to whom I ought, as he thought, to have given a reward for his tidings. 
And now evil men have slain a righteous man in his house on his bed: now then I will require his blood of your hand, and I will destroy you from off the earth. 
And David commanded his young men, and they slay them, and cut off their hands and their feet; and they hung them up at the fountain in Hebron: and they buried the head of Ish-bosheth in the tomb of Abner the son of Ner. 
