Chronicles I.
Chapter 9.
And this is all Israel, even their enrollment: and these are written down in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah, with the names of them that were carried away to Babylon for their transgressions. 
And they that dwelt before in their possessions in the cities of Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the appointed ones. 
And there dwelt in Jerusalem some of the children of Judah, and of the children of Benjamin, and of the children of Ephraim, and Manasseh. 
And Uthai, and the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, son of the sons of Perez, the son of Judah. 
And of the Shilonites; Asaiah his firstborn, and his sons. 
Of the sons of Zerah; Jeuel, and their brethren, six hundred and ninety. 
And of the sons of Benjamin; Sallu, son of Meshullam, son of Hodaviah, son of Hassenuah. 
And Ibneiah son of Jeroham, and Elah: these are the sons of Uzzi the son of Michri: and Meshullam, son of Shephatiah, son of Reuel, son of Ibnijah; 
and their brethren according to their generations, nine hundred and fifty-six, all the men were heads of families according to the houses of their fathers. 
And of the priests; Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, and Jachin, 
and Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God; 
and Adaiah son of Jeroham, son of Pashhur, son of Malchijah, and Maasai son of Adiel, son of Jahzerah, son of Meshullam, son of Meshillemith, son of Immer; 
and their brethren, chiefs of their families, a thousand seven hundred and sixty, mighty men for the work of the ministration of the house of God. 
And of the Levites; Shemaiah son of Hasshub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari. 
And Bakbakkar, and Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah son of Mica, son of Zichri, son of Asaph; 
and Obadiah, son of Shemaiah, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah son of Asa, son of Elkanah—who dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites. 
The doorkeepers; Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, and Ahiman, and their brethren; Shallum was the chief; 
and he waited hitherto in the king’s gate eastward: these are the gates of the companies of the sons of Levi. 
And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brethren belonging to the house of his father, the Korahites were over the works of the service, keeping the watches of the tabernacle, and their fathers over the camp of the Lord, keeping the entrance. 
And Phinehas son of Eleazar was head over them before the Lord, and these were with him. 
Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was keeper of the door of the tabernacle of witness. 
All the chosen porters in the gates were two hundred and twelve, these were in their courts, this was their distribution: these David and Samuel the seer established in their charge. 
And these and their sons were over the gates in the house of the Lord, and in the house of the tabernacle, to keep watch. 
The gates were toward the four winds, eastward, westward, northward, southward. 
And their brethren were in their courts, to enter in weekly from time to time with these. 
For four strong men have the charge of the gates; and the Levites were over the chambers, and they keep watch over the treasures of the house of God. 
For the charge was upon them, and these were charged with the keys to open the doors of the temple every morning. 
And some of them were appointed over the vessels of service, that they should carry them in by number, and carry them out by number. 
And some of them were appointed over the furniture, and over all the holy vessels, and over the fine flour, the wine, the oil, the frankincense, and the spices. 
And some of the priests were makers of the ointment, and appointed to prepare the spices. 
And Mattithiah of the Levites (he was the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite), was set in charge over the sacrifices of meat offering of the pan belonging to the high priest. 
And Banaias the Kohathite, from among their brethren, was set over the showbread, to prepare it every Sabbath. 
And these were the singers, heads of families of the Levites, to whom were established daily courses, for they were employed in the services day and night. 
These were the heads of the families of the Levites according to their generations; these chiefs dwelt in Jerusalem. 
And Jeiel the father of Gibeon dwelt in Gibeon; and his wife’s name was Maacah. 
And his firstborn son was Abdon, and he had Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab, 
and Gedor and his brother, and Zecher, and Mikloth. 
And Mikloth begot Shimeam: and these dwelt in the midst of their brethren in Jerusalem, even in the midst of their brethren. 
And Ner begot Kish, and Kish begot Saul, and Saul begot Jonathan, and Malchi-shua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal. 
And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal: and Merib-baal begot Micah. 
And the sons of Micah were Pithon and Melech, and Tahrea. 
And Ahaz begot Jarah: and Jarah begot Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begot Moza. 
And Moza begot Binea, and Rephaiah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son. 
And Azel had six sons, and these were their names; Azrikam his firstborn, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan, and Asa: these were the sons of Azel. 
