Chronicles I.
Chapter 26.
And for the divisions of the gates: the sons of the Korahites were Meshelemiah, of the sons of Asaph. 
And Meshelemiah’s firstborn son was Zechariah, the second Jediael, the third Zebadiah, the fourth Jathniel, 
the fifth Elam, the sixth Jehohanan, the seventh Eliehoenai, the eighth Obed-edom. 
And to Obed-edom there were born sons, Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sachar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth, 
Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth: for God blessed him. 
And to Shemaiah his son were born the sons of his firstborn, chiefs over the house of their father, for they were mighty. 
The sons of Shemaiah; Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, and Elzabad, and Achiud, mighty men, Elihu, and Semachiah, and Isbacom. 
All these were of the sons of Obed-edom, they and their sons and their brethren, doing mightily in service: in all sixty-two born to Obed-edom. 
And Meshelemiah had eighteen sons and brethren, mighty men. 
And to Hosah of the sons of Merari there were born sons, keeping the dominion; though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him chief of the second division. 
Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth: all these were the sons and brethren of Hosah, thirteen. 
To these were assigned the divisions of the gates, to the chiefs of the mighty men the daily courses, even their brethren, to minister in the house of the Lord. 
And they cast lots for the small as well as for the great, for the several gates, according to their families. 
And the lot of the east gates fell to Shelemiah, and Zechariah: the sons of Soaz cast lots for Melchias, and the lot came out northward. 
To Obed-edom they gave by lot the south, opposite the house of Esephim. 
They gave the lot for the second to Hosah westward, after the gate of the chamber by the ascent, watch against watch. 
Eastward were six watchmen in the day; northward four by the day; southward four by the day; and two at the Esephim, 
to relieve guard, also for Hosah westward after the chamber gate, three. There was a ward over against the ward of the ascent eastward, six men in a day, and four for the north, and four for the south, and at the Esephim two to relieve guard, and four by the west, and two to relieve guard at the pathway. 
These are the divisions of the porters for the sons of Korah, and to the sons of Merari. 
And the Levites their brethren were over the treasures of the house of the Lord, and over the treasures of the hallowed things. 
These were the sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonite: to Ladan belonged the heads of the families: the son of Ladan the Gershonite was Jehieli. 
The sons of Jehieli were Zetham, and Joel; brethren who were over the treasures of the house of the Lord. 
To Amram and Izhar belonged Hebron, and Uzziel. 
And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was over the treasures. 
And Rehabiah was son to his brother Eliezer, and so was Jeshaiah, and Joram, and Zichri, and Shelomoth. 
This Shelomoth and his brethren were over all the sacred treasures, which David the king and the heads of families consecrated, and the captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, and princes of the host, 
things which he took out of cities and from the spoils, and consecrated some of them, so that the building of the house of God should not want supplies; 
and over all the holy things of God dedicated by Samuel the prophet, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, whatsoever they sanctified was by the hand of Shelomoth and his brethren. 
For the Izharites, Chenaniah, and his sons were over the outward ministration over Israel, to record and to judge. 
For the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, a thousand and seven hundred mighty men, were over the charge of Israel beyond Jordan westward, for all the service of the Lord and work of the king. 
Of the family of Hebron Jerijah was chief, even of the Hebronites according to their generations, according to their families. In the fortieth year of his reign they were numbered, and there were found mighty men among them in Jazer of Gilead. 
And his brethren were two thousand seven hundred mighty men, chiefs of their families, and King David set them over the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, for every ordinance of the Lord, and business of the king. 
