Genesis.
Chapter 23.
And the life of Sarah was a hundred and twenty-seven years. 
And Sarah died in the city of Arba, which is in the valley, this is Hebron in the land of Canaan; and Abraham came to lament for Sarah and to mourn. 
And Abraham stood up from before his dead; and Abraham spoke to the sons of Heth, saying, 
I am a sojourner and a stranger among you, give me therefore possession of a burying place among you, and I will bury my dead away from me. 
And the sons of Heth answered to Abraham, saying, Not so, Sir, 
but hear us; thou art in the midst of us a king from God; bury thy dead in our choice sepulchers, for not one of us will by any means withhold his sepulcher from thee, so that thou shouldest not bury thy dead there. 
And Abraham rose up and did obeisance to the people of the land, to the sons of Heth. 
And Abraham spoke to them, saying, If ye have it in your mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight, hearken to me, and speak for me to Ephron the son of Zohar. 
And let him give me the double cave which he has, which is in a part of his field, let him give it me for the money it is worth for possession of a burying place among you. 
Now Ephron was sitting in the midst of the children of Heth, and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham and spoke in the hearing of the sons of Heth, and of all who entered the city, saying, 
Attend to me, my lord, and hear me, I give to thee the field and the cave which is in it; I have given it thee before all my countrymen; bury thy dead. 
And Abraham did obeisance before the people of the land. 
And he said in the ears of Ephron before the people of the land, Since thou art on my side, hear me; take the price of the field from me, and I will bury my dead there. 
But Ephron answered Abraham, saying, 
Nay, my lord, I have heard indeed, the land is worth four hundred silver didrachmas, but what can this be between me and thee? nay, do thou bury thy dead. 
And Abraham hearkened to Ephron, and Abraham rendered to Ephron the money, which he mentioned in the ears of the sons of Heth, four hundred didrachmas of silver approved with merchants. 
And the field of Ephron, which was in Double Cave, which is opposite Mamre, the field and the cave, which was in it, and every tree which was in the field, and whatever is in its borders round about, were made sure 
to Abraham for a possession, before the sons of Heth, and all that entered into the city. 
After this Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the Double Cave of the field, which is opposite Mamre, this is Hebron in the land of Canaan. 
So the field and the cave which was in it were made sure to Abraham for possession of a burying place, by the sons of Heth. 
