Exodus.
Chapter 6.
And the Lord said to Moses, Now thou shalt see what I will do to Pharaoh; for he shall send them forth with a mighty hand, and with a high arm shall he cast them out of his land. 
And God spoke to Moses and said to him, I am the Lord. 
And I appeared to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, being their God, but I did not manifest to them my name Lord. 
And I established my covenant with them, to give them the land of the Canaanites, the land wherein they sojourned, in which also they dwelt as strangers. 
And I hearkened to the groaning of the children of Israel (the affliction with which the Egyptians enslave them) and I remembered the covenant with you. 
Go, speak to the children of Israel, saying, I am the Lord; and I will lead you forth from the tyranny of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from bondage, and I will ransom you with a high arm, and great judgment. 
And I will take you to me a people for myself, and will be your God; and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God, who brought you out from the tyranny of the Egyptians. 
And I will bring you into the land concerning which I stretched out my hand to give it to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, and I will give it you for an inheritance: I am the Lord. 
And Moses spoke thus to the sons of Israel, and they hearkened not to Moses for faintheartedness, and for their hard tasks. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
Go in, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he send forth the children of Israel out of his land. 
And Moses spoke before the Lord, saying, Behold, the children of Israel hearkened not to me, and how shall Pharaoh hearken to me? and I am not eloquent. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, and gave them a charge to Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he should send forth the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt. 
And these are the heads of the houses of their families: the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel; Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi, this is the kindred of Reuben. 
And the sons of Simeon, Jemuel and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Phoenician woman, these are the families of the sons of Simeon. 
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their kindred, Gershon, Kohath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi were a hundred and thirty-seven. 
And these are the sons of Gershon, Libni and Shimei, the houses of their family. And the sons of Kohath, 
Amram and Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kohath were a hundred and thirty-three years. 
And the sons of Merari, Mahli, and Mushi, these are the houses of the families of Levi, according to their kindred. 
And Amram took to wife Jochebed the daughter of his father’s brother, and she bore to him both Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister: and the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty-two years. 
And the sons of Izhar, Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri. 
And the sons of Uzziel, Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri. 
And Aaron took to himself to wife Elisheba daughter of Amminadab sister of Nahshon, and she bore to him both Nadab and Abihu, and Eleazar and Ithamar. 
And the sons of Korah, Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph, these are the generations of Korah. 
And Eleazar the son of Aaron took to himself for a wife one of the daughters of Putiel, and she bore to him Phinehas. These are the heads of the family of the Levites, according to their generations. 
This is Aaron and Moses, whom God told to bring out the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt with their forces. 
These are they that spoke with Pharaoh king of Egypt, and Aaron himself and Moses brought out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt, 
in the day in which the Lord spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt; 
then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, I am the Lord: speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt whatsoever I say to thee. 
And Moses said before the Lord, Behold, I am not able in speech, and how shall Pharaoh hearken to me? 
