Kings IV.
Chapter 18.
And it came to pass in the third year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel that Hezekiah son of Ahaz king of Judah began to reign. 
Five and twenty years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem: and his mother’s name was Abi, daughter of Zechariah. 
And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father David did. 
He removed the high places, and broke in pieces the pillars, and utterly destroyed the groves, and the brazen serpent which Moses made: because until those days the children of Israel burned incense to it: and he called it Nehushtan. 
He trusted in the Lord God of Israel; and after him there was not any like him among the kings of Judah, nor among those that were before him. 
And he clove to the Lord, he departed not from following him; and he kept his commandments, as many as he commanded Moses. 
And the Lord was with him; and he was wise in all that he undertook: and he revolted from the king of the Assyrians, and served him not. 
He smote the Philistines even to Gaza, and to the border of it, from the tower of the watchmen even to the strong city. 
And it came to pass in the fourth year of King Hezekiah (this is the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel), that Shalmaneser king of the Assyrians came up against Samaria, and besieged it. 
And he took it at the end of three years, in the sixth year of Hezekiah (this is the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel, when Samaria was taken). 
And the king of the Assyrians carried away the Samaritans to Assyria, and put them in Halah and in Habor, by the river Gozan, and in the mountains of the Medes; 
because they hearkened not to the voice of the Lord their God, and transgressed his covenant, even in all things that Moses the servant of the Lord commanded, and hearkened not to them, nor did them. 
And in the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah came up Sennacherib king of the Assyrians against the strong cities of Judah, and took them. 
And Hezekiah king of Judah sent messengers to the king of the Assyrians to Lachish, saying, I have offended; depart from me: whatsoever thou shalt lay upon me, I will bear. And the king of Assyria laid upon Hezekiah king of Judah a tribute of three hundred talents of silver, and thirty talents of gold. 
And Hezekiah gave all the silver that was found in the house of the Lord, and in the treasures of the king’s house. 
At that time Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the temple, and from the pillars which Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid with gold, and gave it to the king of the Assyrians. 
And the king of the Assyrians sent Tartan and Rab-saris and Rabshakeh from Lachish to King Hezekiah with a strong force against Jerusalem. And they went up and came to Jerusalem, and stood by the aqueduct of the upper pool, which is by the way of the fuller’s field. 
And they cried to Hezekiah: and there came to him Eliakim the son of Hilkiah the steward, and Shebnah the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder. 
And Rabshakeh said to them, Say now to Hezekiah, Thus says the king, the great king of the Assyrians, What is this confidence wherein thou trustest? 
Thou hast said (but they are mere words), I have counsel and strength for war. Now then in whom dost thou trust, that thou hast revolted from me? 
See now, art thou trusting for thyself on this broken staff of reed, even upon Egypt? whosoever shall stay himself upon it, it shall even go into his hand, and pierce it: so is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all that trust on him. 
And whereas thou hast said to me, We trust on the Lord God: is not this he, whose high places and altars Hezekiah has removed, and has said to Judah and Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem? 
And now, I pray you, make an agreement with my lord the king of the Assyrians, and I will give thee two thousand horses, if thou shalt be able on thy part to set riders upon them. 
How then wilt thou turn away the face of one petty governor from among the least of my lord’s servants? whereas thou trustest for thyself on Egypt for chariots and horsemen. 
And now have we come up without the Lord against this place to destroy it? The Lord said to me, Go up against this land, and destroy it. 
And Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebnah, and Joah, said to Rabshakeh, Speak now to thy servants in the Syrian language, for we understand it; and speak not with us in the Jewish language: and why dost thou speak in the ears of the people that are on the wall? 
And Rabshakeh said to them, Has my master sent me to thy master, and to thee, to speak these words? has he not sent me to the men who sit on the wall, that they may eat their own dung, and drink their own water together with you? 
And Rabshakeh stood, and cried with a loud voice in the Jewish language, and spoke, and said, Hear the words of the great king of the Assyrians: 
thus says the king, Let not Hezekiah encourage you with words: for he shall not be able to deliver you out of his hand. 
And let not Hezekiah cause you to trust on the Lord, saying, The Lord will certainly deliver us; this city shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of the Assyrians: hearken not to Hezekiah: 
for thus says the king of the Assyrians, Gain my favor, and come forth to me, and every man shall drink of the wine of his own vine, and every man shall eat of his own fig tree, and shall drink water out of his own cistern; 
until I come and remove you to a land like your own land, a land of corn and wine, and bread and vineyards, a land of olive oil, and honey, and ye shall live and not die: and do not ye hearken to Hezekiah, for he deceives you, saying, The Lord shall deliver you. 
Have the gods of the nations at all delivered each their own land out of the hand of the king of the Assyrians? 
Where is the god of Hamath, and of Arpad? where is the god of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah? for have they delivered Samaria out of my hand? 
Who is there among all the gods of the countries, who have delivered their countries out of my hand, that the Lord should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand? 
But the men were silent, and answered him not a word: for there was a commandment of the king, saying, Ye shall not answer him. 
And Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, the steward, and Shebnah the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder came in to Hezekiah, having rent their garments; and they reported to him the words of Rabshakeh. 
