Proverbs.
Chapter 14.
Wise women build houses: But a foolish one digs hers down with her hands. 
He that walks uprightly fears the Lord; But he that is perverse in his ways shall be dishonored. 
Out of the mouth of fools comes a rod of pride; But the lips of the wise preserve them. 
Where no oxen are, the cribs are clean; But where there is abundant produce, the strength of the ox is apparent. 
A faithful witness does not lie; But an unjust witness kindles falsehoods. 
Thou shalt seek wisdom with bad men, and shalt not find it; But discretion is easily available with the prudent. 
All things are adverse to a foolish man; But wise lips are the weapons of discretion. 
The wisdom of the prudent will understand their ways; But the folly of fools leads astray. 
The houses of transgressors will need purification; But the houses of the just are acceptable. 
If a man’s mind is intelligent, his soul is sorrowful; And when he rejoices, he has no fellowship with pride. 
The houses of ungodly men shall be utterly destroyed; But the tabernacles of them that walk uprightly shall stand. 
There is a way which seems to be right with men, But the ends of it reach to the depth of hell. 
Grief mingles not with mirth; And joy in the end comes to grief. 
A stouthearted man shall be filled with his own ways; And a good man with his own thoughts. 
The simple believes every word: But the prudent man betakes himself to afterthought. 
A wise man fears, and departs from evil; But the fool trusts in himself, and joins himself with the transgressor. 
A passionate man acts inconsiderately; But a sensible man bears up under many things. 
Fools shall have mischief for their portion; But the prudent shall take fast hold of understanding. 
Evil men shall fall before the good; And the ungodly shall attend at the gates of the righteous. 
Friends will hate poor friends; But the friends of the rich are many. 
He that dishonors the needy sins: But he that has pity on the poor is most blessed. 
They that go astray devise evils: But the good devise mercy and truth. The framers of evil do not understand mercy and truth: But compassion and faithfulness are with the framers of good. 
With everyone who is careful there is abundance: But the pleasure taking and indolent shall be in want. 
A prudent man is the crown of the wise: But the occupation of fools is evil. 
A faithful witness shall deliver a soul from evil: But a deceitful man kindles falsehoods. 
In the fear of the Lord is strong confidence: And he leaves his children a support. 
The commandment of the Lord is a fountain of life; And it causes men to turn aside from the snare of death. 
In a populous nation is the glory of a king: But in the failure of people is the ruin of a prince. 
A man slow to wrath abounds in wisdom: But a man of impatient spirit is very foolish. 
A meek-spirited man is a healer of the heart: But a sensitive heart is a corruption of the bones. 
He that oppresses the needy provokes his Maker: But he that honors him has pity upon the poor. 
The ungodly shall be driven away in his wickedness: But he who is secure in his own holiness is just. 
There is wisdom in the good heart of a man: But in the heart of fools it is not discerned. 
Righteousness exalts a nation: But sins diminish tribes. 
An understanding servant is acceptable to a king; And by his good behavior he removes disgrace. 
