Wisdom.
Chapter 8.
Wisdom reacheth from one end to another mightily; And sweetly doth she order all things. 
I loved her, and sought her out from my youth, I desired to make her my spouse, And I was a lover of her beauty. 
In that she is conversant with God, she magnifieth her nobility: Yea, the Lord of all things himself loved her. 
For she is privy to the mysteries of the knowledge of God, And a lover of his works. 
If riches be a possession to be desired in this life; What is richer than wisdom, that worketh all things? 
And if prudence work; Who of all that are is a more cunning workman than she? 
And if a man love righteousness, Her labors are virtues: For she teacheth temperance and prudence, Justice and fortitude: Which are such things, as men can have nothing more profitable in their life. 
If a man desire much experience, She knoweth things of old, and conjectureth aright what is to come: She knoweth the subtleties of speeches, and can expound dark sentences: She foreseeth signs and wonders, And the events of seasons and times. 
Therefore I purposed to take her to me to live with me, Knowing that she would be a counselor of good things, And a comfort in cares and grief. 
For her sake I shall have estimation among the multitude, And honor with the elders, though I be young. 
I shall be found of a quick conceit in judgment, And shall be admired in the sight of great men. 
When I hold my tongue, they shall bide my leisure, And when I speak, they shall give good ear unto me: If I talk much, they shall lay their hands upon their mouth. 
Moreover by the means of her I shall obtain immortality, And leave behind me an everlasting memorial to them that come after me. 
I shall set the people in order, And the nations shall be subject unto me. 
Horrible tyrants shall be afraid when they do but hear of me; I shall be found good among the multitude, and valiant in war. 
After I am come into my house, I will repose myself with her: For her conversation hath no bitterness: And to live with her hath no sorrow, But mirth and joy. 
Now when I considered these things in myself, And pondered them in my heart, How that to be allied unto wisdom is immortality; 
And great pleasure it is to have her friendship; And in the works of her hands are infinite riches; And in the exercise of conference with her, prudence; And in talking with her, a good report; I went about seeking how to take her to me. 
For I was a witty child, And had a good spirit. 
Yea rather, being good, I came into a body undefiled. 
Nevertheless, when I perceived that I could not otherwise obtain her, except God gave her me; And that was a point of wisdom also to know whose gift she was; I prayed unto the Lord, and besought him, And with my whole heart I said, 
