Numbers.
Chapter 26.
And it came to pass after the plague, that the Lord spoke to Moses and Eleazar the priest, saying, 
Take the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, according to the houses of their lineage, everyone that goes forth to battle in Israel. 
And Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke in Araboth of Moab at the Jordan by Jericho, saying, 
This is the numbering from twenty years old and upward as the Lord commanded Moses. And the sons of Israel that came out of Egypt are as follows: 
Reuben was the firstborn of Israel: and the sons of Reuben, Hanoch, and the family of Hanoch; to Pallu belongs the family of the Palluites. 
To Hezron, the family of Hezronites: to Carmi, the family of Carmites. 
These are the families of Reuben; and their numbering was forty-three thousand and seven hundred and thirty. 
And the sons of Pallu were Eliab— 
and the sons of Eliab, Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram: these are renowned men of the congregation; these are they that rose up against Moses and Aaron in the gathering of Korah, in the rebellion against the Lord. 
And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up them and Korah, when their assembly perished, when the fire devoured the two hundred and fifty, and they were made a sign. 
But the sons of Korah died not. 
And the sons of Simeon—the family of the sons of Simeon: to Nemuel, belonged the family of the Nemuelites; to Jamin the family of the Jaminites; to Jachin the family of the Jachinites. 
To Zerah the family of the Zerahites; to Shaul the family of the Shaulites. 
These are the families of Simeon according to their numbering, two and twenty thousand and two hundred. 
And the sons of Judah, Er and Onan; and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. 
And these were the sons of Judah, according to their families: to Shelah belonged the family of the Shelanites; to Perez, the family of the Perezites; to Zerah, the family of the Zerahites. 
And the sons of Perez were, to Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; to Hamul, the family of the Hamulites. 
These are the families of Judah according to their numbering, seventy-six thousand and five hundred. 
And the sons of Issachar according to their families: to Tola, the family of the Tolaites; to Puvah, the family of the Punites. 
To Jashub, the family of the Jashubites; to Shimron, the family of the Shimronites. 
These are the families of Issachar according to their numbering, sixty-four thousand and four hundred. 
The sons of Zebulun according to their families: to Sered, the family of the Seredites; to Elon, the family of the Elonites; to Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites. 
These are the families of Zebulun according to their numbering, sixty thousand and five hundred. 
The sons of Gad according to their families: to Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; to Haggi, the family of the Haggites; to Shuni, the family of the Shunites; 
to Ozni, the family of the Oznites; to Eri, the family of the Erites: 
to Arod, the family of the Arodites; to Areli, the family of the Arelites. 
These are the families of the children of Gad according to their numbering, forty-four thousand and five hundred. 
The sons of Asher according to their families; to Imnah, the family of the Imnites; to Ishvi, the family of the Ishvites; to Beriah, the family of the Beriites. 
To Heber, the family of the Heberites; to Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites. 
And the name of the daughter of Asher, Serah. 
These are the families of Asher according to their numbering, forty-three thousand and four hundred. 
The sons of Joseph according to their families, Manasseh and Ephraim. 
The sons of Manasseh. To Machir the family of the Machirites; and Machir begot Gilead: to Gilead, the family of the Gileadites. 
And these are the sons of Gilead; to Iezer, the family of the Iezerites; to Helek, the family of the Helekites. 
To Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; to Shechem, the family of the Shechemites. 
To Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; and to Hepher, the family of the Hepherites. 
And to Zelophehad the son of Hepher there were no sons, but daughters: and these were the names of the daughters of Zelophehad; Mahlah, and Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah. 
These are the families of Manasseh according to their numbering, fifty-two thousand and seven hundred. 
And these are the children of Ephraim; to Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthelahites; to Tahan, the family of the Tahanites. 
These are the sons of Shuthelah; to Eran, the family of the Eranites. 
These are the families of Ephraim according to their numbering, thirty-two thousand and five hundred: these are the families of the children of Joseph according to their families. 
The sons of Benjamin according to their families; to Bela, the family of the Belaites; to Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; to Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites. 
To Shephupham, the family of the Shuphamites. 
And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman; to Ard, the family of the Ardites; and to Naaman, the family of the Naamites. 
These are the sons of Benjamin by their families according to their numbering, thirty-five thousand and five hundred. 
And the sons of Dan according to their families; to Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites; these are the families of Dan according to their families. 
All the families of Shuham according to their numbering, sixty-four thousand and four hundred. 
The sons of Naphtali according to their families; to Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; to Guni, the family of the Gunites. 
To Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; to Shillem, the family of the Shillemites. 
These are the families of Naphtali, according to their numbering, forty thousand and three hundred. 
This is the numbering of the children of Israel, six hundred and one thousand and seven hundred and thirty. 
And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
To these the land shall be divided, so that they may inherit according to the number of the names. 
To the greater number thou shalt give the greater inheritance, and to the less number thou shalt give the less inheritance: to each one, as they have been numbered, shall their inheritance be given. 
The land shall be divided to the names by lot, they shall inherit according to the tribes of their families. 
Thou shalt divide their inheritance by lot between the many and the few. 
And the sons of Levi according to their families; to Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; to Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; to Merari, the family of the Merarites. 
These are the families of the sons of Levi; the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Korahites, and the family of the Mushites; and Kohath begot Amram. 
And the name of his wife was Jochebed, daughter of Levi, who bore these to Levi in Egypt, and she bore to Amram, Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister. 
And to Aaron were born both Nadab and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
And Nadab and Abihu died when they offered strange fire before the Lord in the wilderness of Sinai. 
And there were according to their numbering, twenty-three thousand, every male from a month old and upward; for they were not numbered among the children of Israel, because they have no inheritance in the midst of the children of Israel. 
And this is the numbering of Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in Araboth of Moab, at Jordan by Jericho. 
And among these there was not a man numbered by Moses and Aaron, whom, even the children of Israel, they numbered in the wilderness of Sinai. 
For the Lord said to them, They shall surely die in the wilderness; and there was not left even one of them, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun. 
