Chronicles I.
Chapter 12.
And these are they that came to Ziklag, when he yet kept himself close because of Saul the son of Kish; and these were among the mighty, aiding him in war, 
and using the bow with the right hand and with the left, and slingers with stones, and shooters with bows. Of the brethren of Saul of Benjamin, 
the chief was Ahiezer, and Joash son of Shemaah the Gibeathite, and Jeziel and Pelet, sons of Azmaveth, and Beracah, and Jehu of Anathoth, 
and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite a mighty man among the thirty, and over the thirty; 
and Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Jozabad of Gederah, 
Eluzai and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah of Haruphite, 
Elkanah, and Isshiah, and Azarel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, and the Korahites, 
and Joelah and Zebadiah, sons of Jeroham, and the men of Gedor. 
And from Gad these separated themselves to David from the wilderness, strong mighty men of war, bearing shields and spears, and their faces were as the face of a lion, and they were nimble as roes upon the mountains in speed. 
Ezer the chief, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third, 
Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, 
Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh, 
Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 
Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh. 
These were chiefs of the army of the sons of Gad, the least one commander of a hundred, and the greatest one of a thousand. 
These are the men that crossed over Jordan in the first month, and it had overflowed all its banks; and they drove out all the inhabitants of the valleys, from the east to the west. 
And there came some of the sons of Benjamin and Judah to the assistance of David. 
And David went out to meet them, and said to them, If ye are come peaceably to me, let my heart be at peace with you: but if ye are come to betray me to my enemies unfaithfully, the God of your fathers look upon it, and reprove it. 
And the Spirit came upon Amasai, a captain of the thirty, and he said, Go, David, son of Jesse, Thou and thy people, Peace, peace be to thee, And peace to thy helpers, For thy God has helped thee. And David received them, and made them captains of the forces. 
And some came to David from Manasseh, when the Philistines came against Saul to war: and he helped them not, because the captains of the Philistines took counsel, saying, With the heads of those men will he return to his master Saul. 
When David was going to Ziklag, there came to him of Manasseh, Adnah and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zillethai: these are the captains of thousands of Manasseh. 
And they fought on the side of David against a troop, for they were all men of might; and they were commanders in the army, because of their might. 
For daily men came to David, till they amounted to a great force, as the force of God. 
And these are the names of the commanders of the army, who came to David to Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul to him according to the word of the Lord. 
The sons of Judah, bearing shields and spears, six thousand and eight hundred mighty in war. 
Of the sons of Simeon mighty for battle, seven thousand and a hundred. 
Of the sons of Levi, four thousand and six hundred. 
And Jehoiada the chief of the family of Aaron, and with him three thousand and seven hundred. 
And Zadok, a young man mighty in strength, and there were twenty-two leaders of his father’s house. 
And of the sons of Benjamin, the brethren of Saul, three thousand: and still the greater part of them kept the guard of the house of Saul. 
And of the sons of Ephraim, twenty thousand and eight hundred mighty men, famous in the houses of their fathers. 
And of the half-tribe of Manasseh, eighteen thousand, even those who were named by name, to make David king. 
And of the sons of Issachar having wisdom with regard to the times, knowing what Israel should do, two hundred; and all their brethren with them. 
And of Zebulun they that went out to battle, with all weapons of war, were fifty thousand to help David, not weakhanded. 
And of Naphtali a thousand captains, and with them men with shields and spears, thirty-seven thousand. 
And of the Danites men ready for war twenty-eight thousand and eight hundred. 
And of Asher, they that went out to give aid in war, forty thousand. 
And from the country beyond Jordan, from Reuben, and the Gadites, and from the half-tribe of Manasseh, a hundred and twenty thousand, with all weapons of war. 
All these were men of war, setting the army in battle array, with a peaceful mind toward him, and they came to Hebron to make David king over all Israel: and the rest of Israel were of one mind to make David king. 
And they were there three days eating and drinking, for their brethren had made preparations. 
And their neighbors, as far as Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, brought to them upon camels, and asses, and mules, and upon calves, victuals, meal, cakes of figs, raisins, wine, and oil, calves and sheep abundantly: for there was joy in Israel. 
