Genesis.
Chapter 5.
This is the genealogy of men in the day in which God made Adam; in the image of God he made him: 
male and female he made them, and blessed them; and he called his name Adam, in the day in which he made them. 
And Adam lived two hundred and thirty years, and begot a son after his own form, and after his own image, and he called his name Seth. 
And the days of Adam, which he lived after his begetting Seth, were seven hundred years; and he begot sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Adam which he lived were nine hundred and thirty years, and he died. 
Now Seth lived two hundred and five years, and begot Enosh. 
And Seth lived after his begetting Enosh, seven hundred and seven years, and he begot sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years, and he died. 
And Enosh lived a hundred and ninety years, and begot Kenan. 
And Enosh lived after his begetting Kenan, seven hundred and fifteen years, and he begot sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years, and he died. 
And Kenan lived a hundred and seventy years, and he begot Mahalalel. 
And Kenan lived after his begetting Mahalalel, seven hundred and forty years, and he begot sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Kenan were nine hundred and ten years, and he died. 
And Mahalalel lived a hundred and sixty and five years, and he begot Jared. 
And Mahalalel lived after his begetting Jared, seven hundred and thirty years, and he begot sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred and ninety and five years, and he died. 
And Jared lived a hundred and sixty and two years, and begot Enoch. 
And Jared lived after his begetting Enoch, eight hundred years, and he begot sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty and two years, and he died. 
And Enoch lived a hundred and sixty and five years, and begot Methuselah. 
And Enoch was well-pleasing to God after his begetting Methuselah, two hundred years, and he begot sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty and five years. 
And Enoch was well-pleasing to God, and was not found, because God translated him. 
And Methuselah lived a hundred and sixty and seven years, and begot Lamech. 
And Methuselah lived after his begetting Lamech eight hundred and two years, and begot sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Methuselah which he lived, were nine hundred and sixty and nine years, and he died. 
And Lamech lived a hundred and eighty and eight years, and begot a son. 
And he called his name Noah, saying, This one will cause us to cease from our works, and from the toils of our hands, and from the earth, which the Lord God has cursed. 
And Lamech lived after his begetting Noah, five hundred and sixty and five years, and begot sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and fifty-three years, and he died. 
And Noah was five hundred years old, and he begot three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
