Numbers.
Chapter 24.
And when Balaam saw that it pleased God to bless Israel, he did not go according to his custom to meet the omens, but turned his face toward the wilderness. 
And Balaam lifted up his eyes, and sees Israel encamped by their tribes; and the Spirit of God came upon him. 
And he took up his parable and said, Balaam son of Beor says, The man who sees truly says, 
He says who hears the oracle of the Mighty One, Who saw a vision of God in sleep; His eyes were opened: 
How goodly are thy habitations, Jacob, And thy tents, Israel! 
As shady groves, And as gardens by a river, And as tents which God pitched, And as cedars by the waters. 
There shall come a man out of his seed, And he shall rule over many nations; And the kingdom of Gog shall be exalted, And his kingdom shall be increased. 
God led him out of Egypt; He has as it were the glory of a unicorn: He shall consume the nations of his enemies, And he shall drain their marrow, And with his darts he shall shoot through the enemy. 
He lay down, he rested as a lion, and as a young lion; Who shall stir him up? They that bless thee are blessed, And they that curse thee are cursed. 
And Balak was angry with Balaam, and clapped his hands together; and Balak said to Balaam, I called thee to curse my enemy, and behold thou hast decidedly blessed him this third time. 
Now therefore flee to thy place: I said, I will honor thee, but now the Lord has deprived thee of glory. 
And Balaam said to Balak, Did I not speak to thy messengers also whom thou sentest to me, saying, 
If Balak should give me his house full of silver and gold, I shall not be able to transgress the word of the Lord to make it good or bad by myself; whatsoever things God shall say, them will I speak. 
And now, behold, I return to my place; come, I will advise thee of what this people shall do to thy people in the last days. 
And he took up his parable and said, Balaam the son of Beor says, The man who sees truly says, 
Hearing the oracles of God, Receiving knowledge from the Most High, And having seen a vision of God in sleep; His eyes were opened. 
I will point to him, but not now; I bless him, but he draws not near: A star shall rise out of Jacob, A man shall spring out of Israel; And shall crush the princes of Moab, And shall spoil all the sons of Seth. 
And Edom shall be an inheritance, And Esau his enemy shall be an inheritance of Israel, And Israel wrought valiantly. 
And one shall arise out of Jacob, And destroy out of the city him that escapes. 
And having seen Amalek, he took up his parable and said, Amalek is the first of the nations; Yet his seed shall perish. 
And having seen the Kenite, he took up his parable and said, Thy dwelling place is strong; Yet though thou shouldest put thy nest in a rock, 
And though Beor should have a skillfully contrived hiding place, The Assyrians shall carry thee away captive. 
And he looked upon Og, and took up his parable and said, Oh, oh, who shall live, when God shall do these things? 
And one shall come forth from the hands of the Kittim, And shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict the Eberites, And they shall perish together. 
And Balaam rose up and departed and returned to his place, and Balak went to his own home. 
