1 Corinthians.
Chapter 7.
Now concerning the things about which you wrote to me: it is good for a man not to touch a woman. 
But because of the fornications, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband. 
Let the husband render to his wife the affection due her, and likewise also the wife to her husband. 
The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does; similarly also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. 
Do not deprive one another except by mutual consent for a season, so that you may devote yourselves to fasting and to prayer, and come together again so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. 
Now I say this as a concession, not as a command 
(though I wish that all men were even as I myself; but each has his own gift from God, one like this and one like that). 
Yes I say to the unmarried and the widows: it is good for them if they should remain even as I; 
but if they cannot exercise self-control, let them marry; since it is better to marry than to burn. 
Now to the married I command (not I but the Lord): a wife is not to be separated from her husband 
(but if she does separate herself, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband), and a husband is not to divorce his wife. 
But to the rest I (not the Lord) say: if any brother has an unbelieving wife and she is willing to live with him, let him not divorce her. 
And a woman who has an unbelieving husband and he is willing to live with her, let her not divorce him. 
For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband; otherwise your children would be unclean, but now they are consecrated. 
But if the unbeliever separates, let him separate—in such cases the brother or the sister is not enslaved, but God has called us to peace. 
For how do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife? 
Otherwise, as God has distributed to each, as the Lord has called each one, so let him live (this is what I command in all the congregations). 
Was anyone already circumcised when called? Let him not reverse it. Was anyone uncircumcised when called? Let him not be circumcised. 
Circumcision is nothing and uncircumcision is nothing, compared to keeping God's commandments. 
Let each one remain in the same calling in which he was called. 
Were you called while a slave? Do not let it bother you, but if you can really become free, do so. 
For the one in the Lord who was called while a slave is the Lord's freedman. Similarly, the one who was called while free is Christ's slave. 
You were bought at a price; do not become slaves of men. 
Brothers, let each one remain with God in the social condition in which he was called. 
Now about the virgins I have no command from the Lord, but I give my judgment as one who has obtained mercy from the Lord to be trustworthy. 
I consider therefore that this is good because of the current distress—that it is good for a man to remain as he is: 
Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek release. Have you been released from a wife? Do not seek a wife. 
However, should you marry, you have not sinned; and if a virgin should marry, she has not sinned. Still, such will have trouble in the flesh, and I want to spare you. 
Now I say this, brothers, the time has been shortened, so that from now on even those who have wives should be as though they had none, 
and those who weep as though not weeping, and those who rejoice as though not rejoicing, and those who buy as though not possessing, 
and those who use this world as though not abusing it; because this world's mode is passing away. 
Now I want you to be without anxiety. He who is unmarried cares about the things of the Lord: how he will please the Lord. 
While he who is married cares about the things of the world: how he will please his wife. 
The wife and the virgin are also different. She who is unmarried cares about the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit; while she who is married cares about the things of the world: how she will please her husband. 
I am saying this for your own profit, not to put a leash on you, but for what is appropriate, and that you may serve the Lord without distraction. 
Now if anyone thinks he is behaving inappropriately toward his virgin, if she is past her prime and thus it should be, let him do what he desires; he does not sin; let them marry. 
But he who stands steadfast in his heart, not having necessity, but has control over his own will, and has determined in his heart to preserve his own virginity, does well. 
So then, he who gives in marriage does well, but he who does not give in marriage does better. 
A woman is bound by law for as long as her husband lives, but if the man should die, she is free to be married to whom she wishes—only in the Lord. 
But she is more blessed if she remains as she is, according to my judgment—and I think I also have God's Spirit. 
