Mark.
Chapter 5.
Then they came to the other side of the sea, to the region of the Gadarenes. 
And when He got out of the boat, right away a man with an unclean spirit met Him, coming from the tombs. 
—He had his dwelling among the tombs. No one could bind him, not even with chains, 
because he had often been bound with shackles and chains, only to have had the chains torn apart by him, and the shackles broken in pieces; no one had been strong enough to tame him. 
Always, night and day, in the tombs and in the mountains, he was crying out and cutting himself with stones.— 
When he saw Jesus from a distance, he ran and kneeled down to Him, 
and with a loud cry he said: “What do you want with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I implore you by God, don't torment me!” 
Because He was saying to him, “You unclean spirit, come out of the man!” 
Then He asked him, “What is your name?” And he answered, saying, “Legion is my name, because we are many.” 
He started begging Him repeatedly that He would not send them out of that region. 
Now a large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside. 
So all the demons begged Him saying, “Send us into the pigs, so that we may enter them.” 
And forthwith Jesus gave them permission; and coming out the unclean spirits went into the pigs (there were about two thousand); but the herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea, and they were drowned by the sea. 
So those who were tending the pigs ran off and reported it in the town and the countryside. And they went out to see what it was that had happened. 
They came to Jesus and observed the man who had been demonized, who had the legion, sitting and clothed and in his right mind; and they were afraid. 
Those who had seen it related to them how it happened to the demonized man, and about the pigs. 
Then they began to implore Him to depart from their borders. 
Well upon His getting into the boat, the man who had been demonized started begging Him that he might be with Him. 
But Jesus did not permit him, but said to him, “Go home to your family and report to them how much the Lord has done for you; and He had mercy on you.” 
So he departed and began to proclaim in Decapolis how much Jesus had done for him; and all were marveling. 
Now when Jesus had crossed over again by boat to the other side, a large crowd gathered to Him; and He was by the sea. 
And then, one of the synagogue rulers, named Jairus, comes, and upon finding Him he falls at His feet 
and pleads earnestly with Him, saying, “My little daughter is at the point of death; do come and lay your hands on her so that she may be saved, and she will live.” 
So He went with him. A large crowd was also following Him, and they were pressing around Him. 
Now a certain woman—who had been bleeding for twelve years, 
and had suffered many things under many doctors, and had spent all that she had, yet instead of getting better she grew worse— 
when she heard about Jesus, she came from behind in the crowd and touched His garment. 
(She had kept saying, “If I can just touch His clothes, I will be healed.”) 
Immediately the flow of her blood was dried up, and she knew in her body that she was healed from the affliction. 
And instantly Jesus perceived within Himself that some power had gone out of Him, and turning around in the crowd He said, “Who touched my clothes?” 
So His disciples said to Him, “You see the crowd pressing around you, yet you say, ‘Who touched me?’?” 
But He kept looking around to see who had done it. 
So the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had happened to her, came and fell down before Him and told Him the whole truth. 
And He said to her: “Daughter, your faith has saved you. Go into peace and be healed from your affliction.” 
While He was still speaking, they came from the synagogue ruler's house saying: “Your daughter died. Why trouble the teacher further?” 
But immediately upon hearing the spoken message Jesus said to the synagogue ruler, “Don't be afraid; just believe!” 
He allowed no one to follow Him except Peter, James, and John, the brother of James. 
Then He came to the synagogue ruler's house and found a commotion—weeping and loud wailing. 
So upon entering He said to them: “Why are you making such a commotion and weeping? The child is not dead, but is asleep.” 
But they started ridiculing Him. After He put them all out, He took the child's father and mother, and those with Him, and went in where the child was lying. 
And taking the child by the hand He said to her, “Talitha koumi,” which is translated, “Little girl, I say to you, get up!” 
Immediately the girl got up and started walking around (she was twelve years old). And they were overcome with great amazement. 
He gave them strict orders that no one should know about it, and said to give her something to eat. 
