Philippians.
Chapter 2.
Therefore, if there is any encouragement in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship from the Spirit, if any tenderness and acts of compassion, 
make my joy full by being like-minded, having the same love, being one in spirit and purpose. 
Do nothing out of selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility regard one another as being better than yourselves. 
Let each of you look out not only for his own concerns, but also for what concerns others. 
In fact, let this mindset be in you that was also in Christ Jesus, 
who, existing in God's form, did not consider equality with God a thing to be grasped, 
but divested Himself, taking a slave's form, coming to be in the likeness of men. 
And being found in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself, becoming obedient to the point of death—even death on a cross! 
Indeed, that is why God highly exalted Him and gave Him the name that is above every name, 
so that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow—of those in heaven, those on earth and those under the earth— 
and every tongue will acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Sovereign, to the glory of God the Father. 
So then, my dear ones, just as you have always obeyed (not only in my presence but now much more in my absence), keep working out your own salvation with fear and trembling, 
because God Himself is the One at work in you, both to will and to produce, for His good pleasure. 
Do all things without grumbling or arguing, 
so that you may become blameless and pure, children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and depraved generation, among whom you shine as light bearers in the world, 
holding fast the Word of Life, so that I may rejoice in the day of Christ that I did not run in vain nor labor for nothing. 
Yes, even if I am a libation being poured on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with all of you. 
For the same reason you also be glad and rejoice with me. 
Now I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, that I also may be encouraged when I know how you are doing. 
For I have no one else like-minded, who will be genuinely concerned about your welfare 
(for all seek their own interests, not those of Christ Jesus). 
But you know the proof of him, that as a son with his father he slaved with me for the Gospel. 
Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see how things go with me. 
Still, I am confident in the Lord that I myself will come soon. 
However, I considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker and fellow soldier; also your messenger and minister to my need; 
since he was longing for you all, and was distressed because you had heard that he was sick. 
Well, he really was sick, nearly to death, but God had mercy on him, and not only on him but also on me, that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow. 
So I sent him the more eagerly, that upon seeing him you might have joy, and I be less anxious. 
Receive him in Sovereign with great joy, and hold such men in honor, 
because for the work of the Christ he came close to death, not regarding his life, to complete what was lacking in your service toward me. 
