Romans.
Chapter 11.
So now I say, God did not reject His people, did He? Of course not! Why I myself am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin! 
God has not rejected His people whom He foreknew. Do you not know what the Scripture says about Elijah, how he appeals to God against Israel saying: 
“Lord, they have killed your prophets and torn down your altars; I am the only one left, and they are trying to take my life!” 
But what does the divine response say to him? “I have reserved for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.” 
Even so then at this present time, there is a remnant according to an election by grace. 
Now if by grace, it is no longer from works; otherwise the grace is no longer grace. But if from works, it is no longer grace; otherwise the work is no longer work. 
What then? What Israel is seeking, this it did not obtain; but the election did obtain it, while the rest were dulled. 
Just as it is written: “God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that were not to see and ears that were not to hear, to this very day.” 
And David says: “Let their table be made into a snare and into a trap, into a stumbling block and into a retribution to them. 
Let their eyes be darkened so as not to see, and their back always be bowed down.” 
So now I say, surely they have not stumbled so as to fall and stay fallen? Of course not! Rather, through their transgression the salvation has come to the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy. 
Now if their transgression means riches for the world, and their loss riches for the nations, how much more their fulfillment! 
So I am speaking to you Gentiles (inasmuch as I am ‘apostle to the Gentiles’, I magnify my ministry), 
if somehow I can provoke my own people to jealousy and save some of them. 
For if their being rejected means reconciliation for the world, what will their restoration be but life from the dead? 
Now if the ‘firstfruit’ is holy, so is the whole batch; and if the root is holy, so are the branches. 
Now if some of the branches were broken off, while you, being a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among them, and with them have become a partaker of the root and the rich sap of the cultivated olive, 
do not boast against those branches (since if you do boast—it is not you who support the root but the root you). 
You will say then, “Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in.” 
Granted. Because of unbelief they were broken off, but you stand by faith. Do not be arrogant, but fear! 
Because if God did not spare the natural branches, perhaps He will not spare you either! 
So consider the kindness and severity of God: upon those who fell, severity; but toward you, kindness, if you continue in that kindness; otherwise you too will be cut off. 
And even they, if they do not persist in the unbelief, will be grafted back in, because God has the power to graft them in again. 
For if you were cut out of a wild by nature olive tree, and were grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree? 
Brothers, I do not want you to be ignorant of this ‘mystery’ (so that you not be conceited): hardening has come upon Israel in part until the full number of the Gentiles has come in. 
And so all Israel will be saved, just as it is written: “The Deliverer will come out of Zion, and He will turn ungodliness away from Jacob; 
this is my covenant with them, when I take away their sins.” 
On the one hand, regarding the Gospel, they are enemies because of you; on the other, regarding the election, they are beloved on account of the forefathers. 
Because God's gracious gifts and calling are irrevocable. 
For just as you also were once disobedient to God, but now have been shown mercy through their disobedience, 
so also these have now been disobedient that through the mercy shown to you they also may be shown mercy. 
Yes, God has given everyone over to disobedience so that He might show mercy to all. 
Oh, the depth of the riches of God's wisdom and knowledge! How unsearchable His judgments and untraceable His ways! 
Because “Who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been His counselor?” 
Or “Who has ever given to Him and has to be repaid?” 
Because from Him and through Him and to Him are all things. To Him be the glory forever! Amen. 
