2 Corinthians.
Chapter 9.
Now concerning the ministry to the saints, it is unnecessary for me to write to you; 
for I know your readiness, about which I boast of you to the Macedonians, that Achaia has been ready since last year, and your zeal has stirred up the majority. 
Still, I have sent the brothers so that our boasting about you in this matter not prove to be empty, so that you may be ready, like I said 
—if any Macedonians were to go with me and find you unprepared, we (not to mention, you!) would be put to shame by this confident boasting. 
So I considered it necessary to urge the brothers to go to you in advance and finish preparing the ‘blessing’ you had promised, that it be ready, representing generosity and not stinginess. 
Now then, whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously will also reap generously. 
Each one should give as he purposes in his heart, not grudgingly or under compulsion; for God loves a glad giver. 
Further, God is able to make all ‘grace’ abound toward you, that always having all sufficiency in everything you may abound to every good work— 
as it is written: “He has distributed around, he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever”— 
yes, the One who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food, so as to supply and multiply your seed for sowing and to increase the yield of your righteousness; 
you being enriched in everything so as to always be generous, which passing through us produces thanksgiving to God. 
Because the administration of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints, but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God 
—on the basis of the proof that this service gives, they are glorifying God for the obedience of your confession into the Gospel of Christ, and for the generosity of your sharing with them and everybody— 
and in their prayer for you, longing for you because of the surpassing grace of God in you. 
Thanks be to God for His indescribable gift! 
