James.
Chapter 3.
My brothers, not many of you should become teachers, knowing that we shall receive a stricter judgment. 
Because we all stumble in many things. If anyone does not stumble in word, he is a perfect man, being able to bridle the whole body as well. 
Consider, we put bits in horses' mouths for them to obey us, and we guide their whole body. 
Consider also the ships: although they are so large and are driven by fierce winds, they are guided by a very small rudder wherever the impulse of the pilot may desire. 
So also the tongue is a small member and boasts great things. Just look at how great a forest a little fire can kindle! 
And the tongue is a fire! The organization of wickedness, that is how the tongue is placed among our members, defiling the whole body and setting on fire the course of life, itself being set on fire by hell. 
Every kind of animal and bird, reptile and sea creature, is tamed and has been tamed by the human race, 
but no one among men is able to tame the tongue—an uncontrollable evil, full of deadly poison. 
With it we bless God and Father, and with it we curse the people who have been made in God's likeness. 
Out of the same mouth proceed blessings and curses. My brothers, these things should not be that way. 
A spring does not send out sweet and bitter water from the same opening, does it? 
Can a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives, or a grape vine figs? Thus no spring yields salt water and sweet. 
Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him exhibit his works in the meekness of wisdom, by his good way of life. 
But if you have bitter envy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not boast and lie against the truth— 
such ‘wisdom’ is not coming down from Above, but is earthly, sensual, demonic. 
Because where envy and selfish ambition exist, there is unruliness and every foul practice. 
In contrast, the wisdom from Above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, compliant, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. 
Now the fruit of righteousness is planted in peace by those making peace. 
