Matthew.
Chapter 5.
Now seeing the crowds He went up on the mountain, and upon His sitting down His disciples approached Him. 
And opening His mouth He started teaching them, saying: 
“Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of the heavens. 
Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted. 
Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth. 
Blessed are those hungering and thirsting for righteousness, for they will be filled. 
Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy. 
Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God. 
Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called sons of God. 
Blessed are those who have been persecuted on account of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of the heavens. 
“Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you, and speak all kinds of evil against you, lying, because of Me. 
Rejoice and exult, because your reward in the heavens is great, for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. 
You are the salt of the earth; but if the salt becomes insipid with what will it be salted? It is then good for nothing except to be thrown out and trampled down by the people. 
You are the light of the world. A city located upon a hill cannot be hidden. 
Nor do they light a lamp and place it under the hamper, but on the lampstand, and it shines on everything in the house. 
So also let your light shine before the people, so that they may see your good works and may glorify your Father, who is in the heavens. 
“Do not suppose that I came to destroy the Law or the Prophets; I did not come to destroy but to fulfill. 
For assuredly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not one iota nor one tittle shall pass away from the Law until everything happens. 
Therefore, whoever annuls one of the least of these commandments and teaches that to the people will be called least in the kingdom of the heavens; but whoever does and teaches them, he will be called great in the kingdom of the heavens. 
For I say to you that unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees you will absolutely not enter the kingdom of the heavens! 
“You have heard that it was said to the ancients, ‘You shall not murder, so whoever murders will be liable to the judgment.’ 
But I say to you that whoever gets angry with his brother without cause will be liable to the judgment. And whoever says to his brother, ‘Numbskull!’ will be liable to the council. But whoever says, ‘You absolute idiot!’ will be liable to hell fire. 
Therefore, if you bring your gift to the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, 
leave your gift there before the altar and go; first be reconciled with your brother and then, returning, offer your gift. 
Be agreeable to your adversary quickly, while you are on the way with him, lest the adversary hand you over to the judge, and the judge hand you over to the officer, and you be thrown into prison. 
Assuredly I say to you, you will by no means get out of there until you have paid the last penny. 
“You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall not commit adultery.’ 
But I say to you that whoever looks at a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. 
So if your right eye is causing you to fall, tear it out and throw it away; because it is better for you that one of your members perish than that your whole body be thrown into hell. 
And if your right hand is causing you to fall, cut it off and throw it away; because it is better for you that one of your members perish than that your whole body be thrown into hell. 
It was said, ‘Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce.’ 
But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife, except for a case of fornication, causes her to commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. 
“Again you have heard that it was said to the ancients: ‘You shall not swear falsely, but you shall perform your oaths to the Lord.’ 
But I say to you not to swear at all: neither by heaven, because it is God's throne; 
nor by the earth, because it is a stool for His feet; nor by Jerusalem, because it is the city of the great King. 
Nor shall you swear by your head, because you cannot make one hair white or black. 
But let your word be ‘yes yes’, ‘no no’; for whatever is more than these is from the malignant one. !! 
“You have heard that it was said: ‘An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.’ 
But I say to you not to resist the evildoer; but whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. 
“And if someone wants to sue you and take your tunic, let him have the cloak as well. 
And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him two. 
Give to him who asks you, and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you. 
“You have heard that it was said: ‘You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’ 
But I say to you: love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who mistreat you and persecute you, 
that you may prove to be sons of your Father in the heavens; for He makes His sun rise on the evil and on the good, and He sends rain on the just and the unjust. 
For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? 
And if you greet only your friends, what are you doing extra? Do not even the tax collectors do so? 
Therefore, you be perfect just as your Father in the heavens is perfect. 
