John.
Chapter 21.
After these things Jesus, risen from the dead, revealed Himself to His disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, and He did it like this: 
Simon Peter, Thomas (called Twin), Nathanael (from Cana of Galilee), Zebedee's sons and two others of His disciples were together. 
Simon Peter says to them, “I'm going fishing.” They say to him, “We're coming with you.” Off they went and got right into the boat, and that whole night they caught nothing. 
Well when daybreak had now come Jesus stood on the beach; however the disciples did not know that it was Jesus. 
Then Jesus says to them, “Boys, you don't have any food, do you?” They answered Him, “No.” 
So He said to them, “Cast the net on the right side of the boat and you will find.” So they did, and now they were unable to haul it in because of the multitude of fish! 
Then that disciple whom Jesus loved says to Peter, “It's the Lord!” Upon hearing that it was the Lord, Simon Peter tied on his outer garment (for he was stripped) and plunged into the sea. 
But the other disciples came in the little boat dragging the net with the fish (for they were not far from the land, but about 100 yards). 
Then, as they stepped onto the land they saw a charcoal fire in place with fish lying on it, and bread. 
Jesus says to them, “Bring some of the fish that you have just caught.” 
Simon Peter got up and dragged the net onto the land, full of one hundred and fifty-three large fish !; and although being so many, the net was not torn. 
Jesus says to them, “Come have breakfast!” Well not one of the disciples dared to ask Him, “Who are you?”—knowing that it was the Lord. 
Then Jesus comes and takes the bread and gives it to them, as also the fish. 
This was already a third time that Jesus appeared to His disciples after He was raised from among the dead. 
So, when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus says to Simon Peter, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me more than these?” He says to Him, “Yes, Lord, you know that I'm fond of you.” He says to him, “Feed my lambs.” 
He says to him again, a second time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me?” He says to Him, “Yes, Lord, you know that I'm fond of you.” He says to him, “Shepherd my sheep.” 
The third time He says to him, “Simon, son of Jonah, are you fond of me?” Peter was grieved in that the third time He said to him, “Are you fond of me?” and said to Him: “Lord, you know all things. You know that I'm fond of you!” Jesus says to him: “Feed my sheep. 
Most assuredly I say to you, when you were younger you used to get dressed and walk where you wished; but when you are old you will stretch out your hands and another will dress you and carry you where you do not wish.” 
(He said this to indicate the kind of death by which he would glorify God.) And upon saying that He says to him, “Follow me!” 
But turning around Peter sees the disciple whom Jesus loved following (that is the one who reclined on His chest at the supper and said, “Lord, who is the one who is betraying you?”). 
Seeing him, Peter says to Jesus, “Lord, what about him?” 
Jesus says to him: “If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? You follow me.” 
So this saying spread among the brothers, that this disciple would not die. Yet Jesus did not say to him Peter that he John would not die, but, “If I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you?” 
This is the disciple who is testifying to these things, and who wrote them; and we know that his testimony is true. 
Indeed, there are also many other things that Jesus did, which if they were written one by one, I suppose that not even the whole world could contain the books that would be written! Amen. 
