Acts.
Chapter 8.
At that time a major persecution arose against the church that was in Jerusalem, so all, except the Apostles, were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria. 
(Devout men had buried Stephen and made a great lamentation over him.) 
As for Saul, he was trying to destroy the Church; invading house after house and dragging away both men and women, he was putting them in prison. 
So on their part those who were scattered abroad went about preaching the Word. 
Now Philip, having gone down to a city of Samaria, was proclaiming the Christ to them; 
and the crowds gave heed with one accord to what Philip was saying, as they heard the words and saw the signs that he kept performing. 
Because unclean spirits came out screaming from many who had them, and many who were paralyzed and lame were healed. 
Yes, there was great joy in that city! 
Now a certain man named Simon was in the city first, practicing sorcery and astounding the people of Samaria, affirming himself to be someone great, 
to whom they used to pay attention, from the least to the greatest, saying, “This man is the great power of God.” 
They listened to him because he had amazed them with his sorceries for a long time. 
But, when they believed Philip, as he proclaimed the good news concerning the Kingdom of God and the name, Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. 
Even Simon himself believed, and having been baptized he stayed right with Philip; observing miracles and signs occurring, he was amazed. 
Now when the Apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John to them, 
who upon coming down prayed about them, so that they might receive Holy Spirit, 
because He had not yet fallen upon any of them; they had only been baptized into the name of Jesus, the Christ. 
Then they laid their hands upon them and they received Holy Spirit. 
Well, upon observing that the Holy Spirit was given through the laying on of the Apostles' hands, Simon offered them money 
saying, “Give this power to me also, that anyone on whom I lay hands may receive Holy Spirit.” 
But Peter said to him: “May your silver go with you into perdition, for thinking that the gift of God could be acquired with money! 
You have neither part nor portion in this matter, because your heart is not right before God. 
Turn away therefore from this your wickedness and make petition to God, in case the intent of your heart may be forgiven you; 
for I see you being into a gall of bitterness and a fetter of unrighteousness.” 
So in answer Simon said, “You make petition to the Lord on my behalf, so that nothing of what you have spoken may come upon me!” 
So when they had both thoroughly testified and spoken the Word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem; they also evangelized many Samaritan villages. 
Then an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip saying, “Get up and go south on the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza; it is desolate.” 
So he got up and went; and there, a man, an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a court-official of Candace the queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasury, who had come worshiping to Jerusalem 
—he was returning, sitting in his chariot and reading aloud the prophet Isaiah. 
And the Spirit said to Philip, “Go forward and join this chariot.” 
So running up Philip heard him reading the prophet Isaiah and said, “Do you really understand what you are reading?” 
So he said, “Well how can I, unless someone guides me?” And he urged Philip to come up and sit with him. 
Now the portion of the Scripture that he was reading was this: “He was led as a sheep to the slaughter; and as a lamb before its shearer is silent, so He does not open His mouth. 
In His humiliation His justice was removed, and who will recount His generation? Because His life is removed from the earth.” 
So continuing the eunuch said to Philip, “I ask you, about whom does the prophet say this, about himself or about someone else?” 
So opening his mouth and beginning from this Scripture, Philip preached Jesus to him. 
Now as they were going down the road they came upon some water, and the eunuch said: “Look, water! What is keeping me from being baptized?” 
So he ordered the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. 
Now when they came up out of the water, Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away, and the eunuch did not see him any more, because he went on his way rejoicing. 
Philip was found at Azotus, and as he passed through he evangelized all the towns until he came to Caesarea. 
