Acts.
Chapter 25.
Now upon assuming the province, after three days Festus went up from Caesarea to Jerusalem. 
Then the chief priests and the principal men of the Jews informed him against Paul and started importuning him, 
begging a favor from him, that he would summon him to Jerusalem—preparing an ambush to kill him along the way. 
However Festus answered that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, he himself being about to go there shortly. 
He said, “So let those who are competent among you go down with me; if there is anything against this man, let them accuse him.” 
When he had stayed among them more than ten days, he went down to Caesarea; the next day he sat on the judgment seat and commanded Paul to be brought. 
When he had come, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem made a circle, bringing against Paul many serious charges that they could not prove, 
while he defended himself, “Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar did I commit any sin.” 
But Festus, wanting to do the Jews a favor, answered Paul by saying, “Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem to be judged by me there concerning these things?” 
So Paul said: “I am standing before Caesar's judgment seat, where I ought to be tried. To the Jews I have done no wrong, as even you know very well. 
Now if I really am in the wrong and have perpetrated anything worthy of death, I do not refuse to die; but if there is nothing to the things of which these are accusing me, no one has the right to give me to them. I appeal to Caesar!” 
Then Festus, when he had conferred with his counsel, answered: “You have appealed to Caesar. To Caesar you shall go!” 
Now when some days had passed, Agrippa the king and Bernice arrived in Caesarea to congratulate Festus. 
Since they were spending many days there, Festus laid Paul's case before the king, saying: “There is a certain man left a prisoner by Felix; 
about whom, when I was in Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed me, asking for punishment against him; 
to whom I answered that it is not a custom with Romans to deliver any man to destruction before the accused has his accusers face to face and has opportunity for defense against the accusation. 
So when they had assembled here, without any delay, the next day I sat on the judgment seat and commanded the man to be brought. 
When the accusers stood up, they brought no charge against him of such things as I supposed, 
but had certain issues against him about their religion, and about a certain dead Jesus whom Paul affirmed to be living. 
And since I was at a loss how to investigate such matters, I asked whether he was willing to go to Jerusalem and be judged there concerning these things. 
But when Paul appealed to be reserved for the decision of the Emperor, I commanded him to be kept until I can send him to Caesar.” 
Then Agrippa said to Festus, “I myself would also like to hear the man.” So he said, “Tomorrow you shall hear him.” 
So the next day, when Agrippa and Bernice had come with great pomp and entered the auditorium, with the commanding officers and the more prominent men of the city, at Festus' command Paul was brought in. 
And Festus said: “King Agrippa, and all you men who are here with us: consider this man, about whom the whole Jewish community petitioned me, both at Jerusalem and here, vociferating that it was not fitting for him to live any longer. 
But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death, besides he himself having appealed to the Emperor, I decided to send him. 
But I have nothing certain to write to my lord concerning him. Therefore I have brought him before all of you, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that after the examination I may have something to write. 
Because it seems to me unreasonable to send a prisoner and not to specify the charges against him.” 
