Luke.
Chapter 8.
Now it happened after this that He started going around town by town, village by village, preaching and proclaiming the good news of the Kingdom of God, and the twelve were with Him; 
also certain women who had been healed of malignant spirits and infirmities: Mary (the one called Magdalene) from whom seven demons had gone out; 
and Joanna the wife of Chuza, an official of Herod; and Susanna, and many others—these were providing for Him from their substance. 
Now when a large crowd had gathered, with people coming to Him from town after town, He spoke by a parable: 
“A sower went out to sow his seed; and as he sowed some fell along the road, and it got trampled, and the birds of the air devoured it. 
And some fell on the rock ledge, and upon sprouting it withered, because it had no moisture. 
And some fell among thorns, and springing up together the thorns choked it. 
The rest fell into the good ground, and growing up it produced fruit a hundredfold.” Upon saying these things He called out, “He who has ears to hear, let him hear!” 
Then His disciples asked Him saying, “What does this parable mean?” 
So He said: “To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of God, but to the rest only in parables, so that ‘seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand.’ 
“Now here is the parable: The seed is the Word of God. 
Those along the road are those who hear; then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, in order that they not be saved, having believed. 
Those on the rock ledge are the ones who, whenever they hear, receive the word with joy; yet these have no root, who believe for a while and in time of testing fall away. 
Now that which fell into the thorns: these are the ones who heard, yet as they go they are choked by cares, riches, and pleasures of life, and bring no fruit to maturity. 
But that on the good ground: these are the ones who having heard the word with a noble and good heart, hold on to it and produce fruit with perseverance.” 
Upon saying these things He called out: “He who has ears to hear, let him hear! No one, when he has lit a lamp, covers it with a vessel or puts it under a bed, but he sets it on a lamp stand, so that those who come in may see the light. 
Further, there is nothing hidden that will not be revealed, nor anything concealed that will not be made known and come into the open. 
So be careful how you hear: Because whoever has, to him more will be given; and whoever does not have, even what he thinks he has will be taken away from him.” 
Then His mother and brothers came to Him, and they could not get near Him because of the crowd. 
And it was told Him by some saying, “Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, wanting to see you.” 
But in answer He said to them, “My mother and my brothers are these, the ones who hear the word of God and do it!” 
Now it happened on one of those days that He got into a boat with His disciples; and He said to them, “Let us go over to the other side of the lake.” So they launched out. 
But as they sailed He fell asleep. A windstorm descended on the lake, and they were being swamped and were in jeopardy. 
So they came and awakened Him, saying, “Master, Master, we are perishing!” Then He got up and rebuked the wind and the waves of water—and they stopped, and there was a calm! 
So He said to them, “Where is your faith?” But being terrified they marveled, saying to each other: “Who can this be? Because He commands even the winds and the water, and they obey Him!” 
Then they sailed to the district of the Gadarenes, which is opposite Galilee. 
Well when He stepped out on the land, a certain man of that town met Him, who had had demons for a long time—he wore no clothes, nor did he live in a house, but among the tombs. 
When he saw Jesus he gave a yell, fell down before Him, and with a loud voice he said: “What do you want with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you, don't torment me!” 
because He had commanded the unclean spirit to get out of the man (it had seized him many times—he would be bound with chains and shackles, being kept under guard; then bursting the bonds he would be driven by the demon into deserted places). 
Then Jesus asked him, “What is your name?” And he said, “Legion” (because many demons had gone into him). 
And he kept imploring Him that He would not order them to go away into the Abyss. 
Now a herd of many pigs was feeding there on the hillside; and they started begging Him that He would allow them to go into those; so He gave them permission. 
Then the demons exited the man and entered the pigs—and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and was drowned! 
Well when the herders saw what had happened they ran away and reported it in the town and in the countryside. 
So they went out to see what had happened, and came to Jesus; they found the man from whom the demons had gone out sitting at Jesus' feet, clothed and in his right mind; and they were afraid. 
Also, the eyewitnesses reported to them how the demonized man was healed. 
Then the whole multitude from the surrounding region of the Gadarenes asked Him to depart from them, because they were overcome by fear. So He got into the boat and returned. 
Now the man from whom the demons had gone out had started begging Him that he might be with Him. But Jesus sent him away, saying, 
“Return to your house and recount how much God has done for you.” So he went his way and proclaimed all over town how much Jesus had done for him. 
Now it happened, when Jesus returned, that the crowd welcomed Him, because they were all waiting for Him. 
And then, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue; he fell down at Jesus' feet and started begging Him to come to his house, 
because he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, and she was dying. Now as He was going, the crowds were pressing against Him. 
And a woman—suffering with a flow of blood for twelve years, who had spent her whole livelihood on physicians, but could not be healed by any— 
approaching from behind touched the border of His garment; and immediately the flow of her blood stopped! 
So Jesus said, “Who touched me?” When all denied it, Peter and those with him said: “Master, the people are pressing against you and crowding in, and you say, ‘Who touched me?’ ” 
But Jesus said, “Someone did touch me, because I noticed power going out from me.” 
Now when the woman saw that she could not hide, she came trembling, and falling down before Him she told Him in the presence of all the people the reason why she had touched Him, and how she was healed immediately. 
So He said: “Courage, daughter, your faith has healed you. Go into peace.” 
While He was still speaking, here came someone from the synagogue ruler's house, saying to him: “Your daughter has died. Don't bother the teacher.” 
But upon hearing it Jesus reacted by saying to him, “Don't be afraid; just believe and she will be healed.” 
When He arrived at the house, He allowed no one to go in except Peter, John, James, the father of the child, and her mother. 
Now all were weeping and mourning for her; but He said, “Do not weep; she is not dead, but sleeping.” 
They started ridiculing Him, knowing that she had died. 
So He put them all outside, and grasping her hand He called, saying, “Child, arise!” 
Then her spirit returned, and she got right up! And He directed that she be given something to eat. 
Her parents were astonished, but He charged them to tell no one what had happened. 
