The Epistle of Paul to the Philippians.
Chapter 1.
Paul and Timothy, slaves of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, together with the overseers and deacons: 
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and Sovereign Jesus Christ. 
I thank my God every time I remember you; 
in all my prayers for all of you I always pray with joy, 
because of your partnership in the Gospel from the first day until now, 
being certain of this very thing, that He who began a good work in you will complete it until the Day of Jesus Christ; 
just as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the Gospel you all are partakers with me of the Grace. 
God is my witness how I long for you all with the affection of Jesus Christ. 
This is what I pray: that your love may abound yet more and more in real knowledge and full discernment, 
for you to identify the things that really matter; that you may be sincere and blameless until the Day of Christ, 
having been filled with the fruits of righteousness that are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. 
Now I want you to know, brothers, that the events against me have actually turned out for the advancement of the Gospel: 
as a result, it has become evident to the whole imperial guard, and to everyone else, that I am in chains for Christ; 
also, most of the brothers in Sovereign have been influenced by my chains to be much bolder, to speak the Word fearlessly. 
To be sure, some are even preaching Christ out of envy and rivalry, but others out of good will; 
the former proclaim Christ out of selfish ambition, not sincerely, thinking to add to my affliction while in chains, 
but the latter out of love, knowing that I am set here for the defense of the Gospel. 
No problem: in every way, be it in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in this I rejoice—yes, and will rejoice. 
You see, I know that this will turn out for my deliverance (through your supplication and the support of the Spirit of Jesus Christ) 
according to my earnest expectation and hope that I will not be put to shame in anything but be truly bold, so that now as always Christ will be glorified in my person, whether by life or by death 
—to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain. 
Now if I am to live on in the flesh it will mean fruitful labor for me, so I do not know what to choose. 
I am torn between the two: I have the desire to depart and be with Christ (far better), 
but to remain in the flesh is more necessary, because of you. 
So having been persuaded of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith, 
so that your rejoicing over me may be more abundant in Christ Jesus, through my coming to you again. 
Only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the Gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you, or am absent, I may hear about you that you stand firm in one spirit, striving together for the faith of the Gospel with one soul, 
and not being intimidated in any way by your opponents: to them this is an indicator of ruin, but to you of deliverance, and that from God. 
For it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only to believe into Him, but also to suffer for His sake, 
having the same struggle that you saw in me and now hear to be in me. 
