John.
Chapter 8.
Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. 
And at dawn He went again into the temple, and all the people were coming to Him; so sitting down He started to teach them. 
Then the scribes and the Pharisees bring to Him a woman caught in adultery; and placing her in the center 
they say to Him: “Teacher, we found this woman committing adultery, in the very act. 
Now in our law Moses commanded that such women are to be stoned; so what do you say?” 
They said this to test Him, so that they might have an accusation against Him. But stooping down Jesus began to write on the ground with His finger, taking no notice. 
But since they kept on asking Him, straightening up He said to them, “Let the one without sin among you throw the first stone at her.” 
And stooping down again He continued writing on the ground. 
Now upon hearing this, and being convicted by their conscience, they began to go out one by one, starting with the older ones down to the least. So only Jesus was left, with the woman in the center. 
So straightening up, and not seeing anyone except the woman, Jesus said to her: “Where are those accusers of yours? Has no one condemned you?” 
So she said, “No one, Lord.” Jesus said to her: “Neither do I condemn you. Go, and from now on don't sin any more!” 
Then Jesus spoke to them again, saying: “I am the Light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk around in the darkness, but will have the light of the Life.” 
So the Pharisees said to Him, “You are testifying about yourself; your testimony is not valid.” 
Jesus answered and said to them: “Even though I testify about myself, my testimony is valid, because I know where I came from and where I am going. But you do not know where I come from or where I am going. 
You are judging according to the flesh; I am not judging anyone. 
Yet even if I do judge, my judging is valid, in that I am not alone in judging, but I and the Father who sent me are together. 
It is written precisely in your law that the testimony of two men is valid: 
I am one testifying concerning myself and the Father who sent me testifies concerning me.” 
Then they said to Him, “Where is your father?” Jesus answered: “You know neither me nor my Father. If you knew me you would also know my Father.” 
Jesus spoke these words in the treasury, while teaching in the temple; yet no one arrested Him, because His time had not yet come. 
Then Jesus said to them again: “I am going away, and you will look for me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going you cannot come.” 
So the Jews said, “He won't kill himself, will he, since he says, ‘Where I am going you cannot come’?” 
He said to them: “You are from below; I am from Above. You are of this world; I am not of this world. 
That is why I told you that you will die in your sins, because if you do not believe that I am, you will die in your sins.” 
So they said to Him, “Who are you?” And Jesus said to them: “Just what I have been saying to you from the beginning. 
I have many things to say and to judge about you, but He who sent me is true, and what I myself have heard from Him—these things I say to the world.” 
They did not understand that He was speaking to them about the Father. 
Then Jesus said to them: “When you lift up the Son of the Man, then you will know that I am and that I do nothing from myself; but just as my Father has taught me, these things I speak. 
And the One who sent me is with me. The Father has not left me alone, because I always do the things that please Him.” 
While He was saying these things many believed into Him. 
So Jesus said to those Jews who had believed Him: “If you abide in my word, you really are my disciples; 
and you will know the Truth, and the Truth will make you free.” 
They answered and said to Him: “We are descendants of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How can you say, ‘You will be made free’?” 
Jesus answered them: “I tell you most assuredly that everyone committing sin is a slave of sin. 
Now the slave does not remain in the household forever; the son does remain forever. 
Therefore, if the Son should make you free, you really will be free. 
I know that you are descendants of Abraham, but you are wanting to kill me because my word finds no place in you. 
On my part, I speak what I have observed with my Father, while on your part you do what you have observed with your father.” 
They answered and said to Him, “Our father is Abraham!” Jesus says to them: “If you were children of Abraham, you would do the works of Abraham; 
but now you are wanting to kill me, a man who has told you the truth which I heard from God. This sort of thing Abraham did not do! 
You do the works of your father.” Then they said to Him, “We were not born of fornication; we have one Father—God.” 
So Jesus said to them: “If God were your Father, you would love me, because I came forth from God and I am here. Further, I have not come on my own, but He sent me. 
Why don't you understand what I say?—because you are not able to really hear my word. 
You are of your father the devil, and it is the desires of your father that you want to do. He was a murderer from the beginning and has not stood in the truth, because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks the lie he speaks from his own things, because he is a liar and the father of lying. 
But since I speak the truth you do not believe me. 
Which of you convicts me of sin? So if I speak the truth, why do you not believe me? 
The one who is of God hears God's words; that is why you do not hear, because you are not of God.” 
So the Jews answered and said to Him, “We say that you are a Samaritan and have a demon—are we wrong?” 
Jesus answered: “ I do not have a demon; rather, I honor my Father, while you dishonor me. 
Yet I do not seek my glory; there is One who seeks and judges. 
Most assuredly I say to you, if anyone should keep my word he will never ever see death.” 
So the Jews said to Him: “Now we know that you have a demon! Abraham died and so did the prophets; yet you say, ‘If anyone should keep my word he will never ever taste death’! 
Surely you aren't greater than our father Abraham, who died? And the prophets are dead. Who do you make yourself out to be?” 
Jesus answered: “If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say, ‘He is our God.’ 
Yet you have not known Him, but I do know Him. And if I should say that I do not know Him I would be a liar just like you (pl); but I do know Him and I keep His word. 
Your father Abraham was overjoyed to see my day; yes, he saw it and rejoiced.” 
So the Jews said to Him, “You are not yet fifty years old, and you have seen Abraham?!” 
Jesus said to them, “Most assuredly I say to you, before Abraham came to be, I AM!” 
Then they picked up stones to throw at Him; but Jesus was concealed and went out of the temple, going through the middle of them; yes, that is how He got away! 
