Acts.
Chapter 20.
Now after the uproar had ended, Paul summoned the disciples, took leave of them, and set out for Macedonia. 
When he had gone through those parts and encouraged them with many words, he came into Greece. 
When he had stayed three months, as he was about to set sail for Syria, the Jews made a plot against him, so he decided to return through Macedonia. 
Now Sopater of Berea, Aristarchus and Secundus of the Thessalonians, Gaius of Derbe, Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia were going to accompany him as far as Asia; 
so having gone on ahead, these men were waiting for us in Troas. 
But it was after the Days of Unleavened Bread that we sailed from Philippi, and in five days we joined them at Troas, where we stayed seven days. 
Now on the first day of the week, the disciples being assembled to break bread, Paul started addressing them, and because he intended to leave the next day he continued his message until midnight. 
There were many lamps in the upper room where we were assembled. 
Well a certain young man named Eutychus sat in a window and was sinking into a deep sleep as Paul kept on talking; when he was overcome by the sleep he fell down from the third story and was picked up dead. 
So Paul went down, threw himself on him and embracing him said, “Do not be distressed, because his life is in him!” 
Then he went back up and broke bread, ate, and kept on speaking until daybreak—that is how he left! 
(On their part, they led the boy away alive, and were greatly comforted.) 
As for us, we went to the ship and set sail for Assos, intending to take Paul on board there—so it had been arranged, he himself intending to go on foot. 
When he met us at Assos we took him aboard and went on to Mityline. 
Sailing from there, the next day we arrived opposite Chios, and the day after we crossed over to Samos and stopped in Trogylium; the following day we came to Miletus. 
(Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, to avoid being detained in Asia, because he was hurrying to be in Jerusalem on the Day of Pentecost, if he possibly could.) 
From Miletus he sent to Ephesus and summoned the elders of the congregation. 
So when they had come to him he said to them: “You yourselves know, from the first day that I arrived in Asia, how I lived the whole time I was with you, 
serving the Lord with all humility, and with many tears and trials, the ones that happened to me by the plots of the Jews; 
how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable, teaching you publicly and from house to house, 
solemnly proclaiming to both Jews and Greeks the repentance toward God and the faith into our Lord Jesus. 
Now then, I am going to Jerusalem bound in my spirit, not knowing the things that will happen to me there, 
except that the Holy Spirit keeps warning me in every city, saying that fetters and afflictions are just waiting for me. 
However none of this moves me, nor do I regard my life as valuable to myself, just so that I may complete my course with joy, even the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to solemnly proclaim the Good News of the grace of God. 
“Furthermore, I know that none of you among whom I have gone about proclaiming the Kingdom of God will ever see my face again. 
Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all; 
because I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. 
So take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has placed you as overseers, to shepherd the congregation of the Lord and God which He purchased with His own blood. 
Because I know this, that after my departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. 
Yes, men will rise up from among you yourselves, speaking distorted things, to draw away the disciples after them. 
Therefore be alert, remembering that during three years, night and day, I never stopped admonishing each one, with tears. 
“And so now, brothers, I entrust you to God and to the Word of His grace, which is able to build you up and to give you an inheritance among all those who have been sanctified. 
I have not coveted anyone's silver or gold or clothing. 
You yourselves know that these hands have supplied my own needs, and of those who were with me. 
In every way I showed you that working hard like this it is necessary to help the weak, and to remember the word of the Lord Jesus, that He Himself said, ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive.’ ” 
When he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all. 
Then they all wept freely, and falling on Paul's neck kept kissing him, 
sorrowing most of all because of the word that he had spoken, that they would see his face no more. And they accompanied him to the ship. 
