Revelation.
Chapter 3.
“And to the messenger of the church in Sardis write: “These things says He who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars: ‘I know your works, that you have a name that you are alive, yet you are dead. 
Wake up! And strengthen the remaining things that you were about to throw away, for I have not found your works to be fulfilled before my God. 
So remember how you have received and heard, and hold fast and repent; because if you do not watch, I will come upon you like a thief, and you will not know what hour I will come upon you. 
“ ‘But you do have a few names in Sardis who have not defiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white, because they are worthy. 
The one who overcomes will thus be clothed in white garments, and I will not erase his name from the Book of Life, and I will confess his name before my Father and before His angels.’ 
“He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. 
“And to the messenger of the church in Philadelphia write: “These things says the Holy, the True, He who has the key of David, who opens and no one can shut it, except He who opens, and no one can open: 
‘I know your works. Look, I have set before you an open door, that no one is able to shut; because you have a little strength and have kept my Word and have not denied my name. 
See, I am determining that some of the synagogue of Satan, those who claim to be Jews and are not, but are lying—yes, I will cause them to come, and to do obeisance at your feet and to know that I have loved you. 
Because you have kept my command to endure, I also will keep you from the hour of the testing that is about to come upon the whole inhabited earth, to test those who dwell on the earth. 
“ ‘I am coming swiftly. Hold fast what you have so that no one may take your crown. 
The one who overcomes, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will never again go out. And I will write on him the name of my God, the name of my God's city—the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from my God—and my new name.’ 
“He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. 
“And to the messenger of the church in Laodicea write: “These things says the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the Originator of God's creation: 
‘I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I could wish you were cold or hot. 
So then, since you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I am about to vomit you out of my mouth. 
Because you say, “I am rich, even become wealthy, and have need of nothing,” and do not realize that you are the most wretched—yes, the most pitiable and poor and blind and naked— 
I counsel you to buy gold from me, refined by fire, so that you may become rich; and white garments, so that you may be clothed, and your nakedness not be shamefully exposed; and anoint your eyes with eye salve, so that you may see. 
As many as I love I rebuke and discipline; so be zealous and repent! 
“ ‘Now then, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone should hear my voice and open the door, I really will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me. 
To the one who overcomes I will grant to sit with me on my throne, just as I overcame and sat down with my Father on His throne.’ 
“He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches.” 
