Ephesians.
Chapter 5.
Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children, 
and walk in love, just as Christ loved us and gave Himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a fragrant aroma. 
But, you should not even talk about fornication or any form of moral corruption or insatiableness (as is fitting for saints); 
nor any obscenity, nor foolish talk or coarse joking (that do not belong), but rather thanksgiving. 
Because you can know this for sure: no fornicator, nor anyone who is morally corrupt or insatiable (actually an idolater), has any inheritance in the Kingdom of the Christ and God. 
Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of the disobedience. 
Therefore do not be participants with them 
—even though you were once darkness, you are now light in Sovereign. Walk as children of light 
(for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth), 
approving what is pleasing to the Lord. 
Do not associate with the unfruitful works of the darkness, but rather expose/reprove them. 
(It is shameful even to speak of those things being done by them in secret.) 
Now all things, upon being exposed, are revealed by the light, for whatever reveals is light. 
Therefore He says: “Wake up, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and the Christ will shine on you.” 
See then that you walk carefully, not as unwise but as wise, 
redeeming the time, because the days are evil. 
That is why you must not be foolish, but understand what the Lord's will is. 
And do not get drunk on wine, which is harmful and wasteful; rather be filled with the Spirit, 
speaking to one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making music in your hearts to the Lord; 
always giving thanks to God the Father concerning all things, in the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ, 
submitting to one another in the fear of God. 
Wives, subordinate yourselves to your own husbands, as to the Lord, 
because a man is head of his wife as also Christ is Head of the Church—He also is Preserver of the body. 
Yes, just as the Church is subject to Christ, so also the wives should be to their own husbands in everything. 
Husbands, love your own wives just as Christ also loved the Church and gave Himself up on her behalf, 
in order that He might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of the water: in a word, 
that He might present her—the splendid Church—to Himself, not having a blemish or a wrinkle or any such thing, but that she be holy and blameless. 
Just so the husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies; he who loves his wife loves himself. 
After all, no one ever hated his own flesh; rather he nourishes and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the Church 
—for we are members of His body, of His flesh and of His bones. 
“For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two will become one flesh.” 
This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the Church. 
In any case, each of you individually: let each one love his own wife as himself, while the wife must respect her husband. 
