John.
Chapter 20.
Now on the first day of the week Mary Magdalene comes to the tomb early, while it is still dark, and sees that the stone has been removed from the tomb. 
So she runs and comes to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and says to them, “They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they put Him!” 
So Peter and the other disciple took off, heading for the tomb. 
Well the two started running together, and the other disciple outran Peter and got to the tomb first. 
And stooping to look he sees the linen strips lying there; however he did not go in. 
Then following him comes Simon Peter and went into the tomb; and he sees the linen strips lying there, 
and the facecloth that had been on His head not lying with the linen strips, but folded up in a separate place. 
So then the other disciple went in too, the one who got to the tomb first; and he saw and believed. 
(For they did not yet know the Scripture, that He had to rise from among the dead.) 
Then the disciples went back home. 
Well Mary stood outside at the tomb, crying. Then, while she was crying, she stooped to look into the tomb. 
And she sees two angels in white, sitting one at the head and one at the feet of where the body of Jesus had lain. 
And they say to her, “Woman, why are you crying?” She says to them, “Because they removed my Lord, and I don't know where they put Him.” 
And upon saying this she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, yet did not know that it was Jesus. 
Jesus says to her: “Woman, why are you crying? Whom are you seeking?” She, supposing that He was the gardener, says to Him, “Sir, if you carried Him away, tell me where you put Him, and I will remove Him.” 
Jesus says to her, “Mary!” Turning she says to Him, “Raboni!” (which means ‘Teacher’). 
Jesus says to her: “Stop clinging to me, for I have not yet ascended to my Father; but go to my brothers and say to them, ‘I am ascending to my Father and your Father—my God and your God.’ ” 
Mary Magdalene goes to the disciples, reporting that she had seen the Lord and He had said these things to her. 
Then at evening on that first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the middle, and He says to them, “Peace to you!” 
And upon saying this He showed them His hands and His side. Well, the disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord! 
So Jesus said to them again: “Peace to you! Just as the Father sent me, I also send you.” 
Upon saying this He breathed on them and said: “Receive Holy Spirit! 
To whomever you forgive the sins, they are forgiven to them; to whomever you retain, they have been retained.” 
Now one of the twelve, Thomas (called Twin), was not with them when Jesus came. 
So the other disciples said to him, “We have seen the Lord!” But he said to them, “If I do not see the nail prints in His hands and put my finger into the nail prints, and put my hand into His side, I will not believe!” 
Well after eight days His disciples were inside again, and Thomas with them. The doors were locked again; Jesus came and stood in the middle, and said, “Peace to you!” 
Then He says to Thomas: “Bring your finger here and perceive my hands; bring your hand and put it into my side; do not be unbelieving but believing!” 
Thomas answered and said to Him, “My Lord and my God!” 
Jesus says to him: “Because you have observed me, you have believed. Blessed are those who believe without seeing!” 
Now then, Jesus actually performed many other miraculous signs in the presence of His disciples, that are not written in this book; 
but these have been written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have Life through His Name. 
