Galatians.
Chapter 4.
To proceed, as long as the heir is a child, he is no different from a slave, though he is owner of all, 
but is under guardians and stewards until the time appointed by the father. 
Similarly, when we were children we were in slavery under the basic principles of the world. 
But at just the right time God sent out His Son, born of a woman, born under law, 
so that He might redeem those under law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. 
And because you are sons, God sent out the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, calling, “Abba, Father”. 
Therefore you are no longer a slave but a son, and if a son, also an heir of God through Christ. 
But at one time indeed, when you did not know God, you were slaves to those that by nature are not gods. 
But now that you know God—better, are known by God—how can you turn back to those weak, yes decidedly inferior, basic principles, to which you wish to be enslaved all over again? 
You are observing days and months and seasons and years. 
I fear for you, lest somehow I have labored over you in vain. 
Brothers, I plead with you, become as I am, for I became like you. You did me no wrong. 
Rather, you know that I preached the Gospel to you the first time in spite of a physical infirmity. 
Also, you did not despise or recoil at my physical trial, but you received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus. 
So what about your blessedness? Because I can testify that if it were possible you would have plucked out your own eyes and given them to me. 
Have I now become your enemy by telling you the truth? 
They zealously court you—not for good but intending to isolate you, so that you may seek them. 
Now it is good to be zealous in a good thing at any time, and not only when I am present with you. 
My little children, for whom I am again in travail until Christ is formed in you 
—I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone; because I am perplexed about you! 
Tell me, you who desire to be under law, do you not heed that law? 
For it is written that Abraham had two sons: one by the slave woman and one by the free woman. 
However, the one by the slave woman was born according to the flesh, while the one by the free woman was through the promise. 
I will now allegorize them—these are two covenants: one is from Mount Sinai, bearing children into slavery, which is ‘Hagar’ 
(for this ‘Hagar’ is Mount Sinai in Arabia and corresponds to the present day Jerusalem, and is in slavery with her children); 
while the ‘Jerusalem’ that is above is free, which is the mother of us all. 
For it is written: “Rejoice, barren one, who does not give birth; break forth and shout, you who have no labor pains; because the abandoned woman has many more children than she who has the husband.” 
Now we, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise. 
But, it is the same now as it was then: the one born according to flesh persecutes the one born according to Spirit. 
However, what does the Scripture say? “Expel the slave woman and her son, because the son of the slave woman absolutely must not inherit with the son of the free woman!” 
So then, brothers, we are not children of a slave woman, but of the free woman. 
