1 Corinthians.
Chapter 11.
Become my imitators, just as I am Christ's. 
Now I praise you, brothers, that you remember me in all things and hold the traditions just as I delivered them to you. 
But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, while a wife's head is the man and Christ's head is God. 
Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head. 
But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her own head—it is one and the same as if it had been shaved. 
So if a woman does not cover herself, let her also be shorn. But if it is shameful for a woman to be shorn or shaved, let her be covered. 
Indeed, a man ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God; but woman is the glory of man. 
For man did not come from woman, but woman from man; 
and neither was man created for the woman, but woman for the man 
—for this reason the woman needs to have authority upon her head, because of the angels— 
nevertheless, in the Lord neither is man independent of woman nor woman independent of man. 
Because as the woman came from the man, so also the man comes through the woman; but all things are from God. 
Judge among yourselves: is it proper for a woman to pray to God uncovered? 
Does not nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him? 
But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her, because that hair has been given for a covering. 
But if anyone decides to be contentious, neither we nor the congregations of God have any other practice. 
Now in giving the following instruction I do not praise you, since you are not coming together for the better but for the worse. 
Because, to begin, I hear that when you come together in an assembly there are divisions among you, and I partly believe it. 
For there would really need to be factions among you so that the ‘approved’ ones may be recognized among you. 
So when you come together in one place, it is not to eat the Lord's Supper. 
Because in eating, each one tries to get his meal first, and one goes hungry while another gets drunk! 
Now really, do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise God's congregation, and humiliate those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? Indeed not! 
For I received from the Lord that which I also transmitted to you: The Lord Jesus, during the night in which He was betrayed, took bread; 
and when He had given thanks, He broke it and said: “Take, eat; this is my body that is being broken on your behalf; do this in remembrance of me.” 
In the same way, after they had dined, He took the cup, saying: “This cup is the new covenant in my blood; do this, whenever you drink it, in remembrance of me.” 
For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death, until He comes. 
So then whoever eats this bread or drinks the Lord's cup unworthily will be guilty of the body and of the blood of the Lord. 
But let a man examine himself, and then let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. 
Because he who eats and drinks unworthily eats and drinks judgment to himself, not distinguishing the Lord's body. 
Because of this many among you are weak and sick, and a good many have died. 
If we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. 
But when we are judged, we are disciplined by the Lord, so that we may not be condemned with the world. 
So then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. 
But if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, lest you come together into judgment. And the rest I will set in order when I come. 
