1 John.
Chapter 2.
My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you won’t sin. If anyone sins, we have an Intercessor with the Father, the righteous Jesus Christ. 
He Himself is the atoning sacrifice for our sins; and not for ours only, but also for those of the whole world. 
This is how we know that we have come to know Him: if we keep His commandments. 
The one who says, “I have come to know Him,” and doesn’t keep His commandments is a liar, and the truth isn’t in him. 
But whoever keeps His word has the sincere love of God truly perfected in him. By this we know that we are in Him: 
whoever claims to live in Jesus ought to walk in the same way He walked. 
Brothers and sisters, I’m not writing a new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you have had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you have heard. 
Yet, I am writing a new commandment to you, which is true in Him and in you, because the darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining. 
Whoever claims to be in the light but hates a brother or sister, is still in darkness. 
Whoever sincerely loves his brothers and sisters lives in the light, and there is no cause for stumbling in him. 
But whoever hates a brother or sister is in darkness and walks in darkness, and doesn’t know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes. 
I write to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for His name’s sake. 
I write to you, fathers, because you have known Him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, little children, because you have known the Father. 
I have written to you, fathers, because you have known Him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God lives in you, and you have overcome the wicked one. 
Don’t sincerely love the world or the things in the world. If anyone sincerely loves the world, the sincere love of the Father isn’t in him. 
For everything that is in the world - the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life - isn’t the Father’s, but is the world’s. 
The world and its lusts are passing away, but whoever does the will of God stays forever. 
Little children, we are in the end times. As you have heard the antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have come. By this we know that we are in the end times. 
They went out from us, but they didn’t belong to us. For if they had belonged to us, they would have continued with us. Instead, they went out so that it might be revealed that none of them belonged to us. 
But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you all know the truth. 
I write to you, not because you don’t know the truth, but because you do know it, and because you know that no lie belongs to the truth. 
Who is a liar? Whoever denies that Jesus is the Christ. Whoever denies the Father and the Son is an antichrist. 
Whoever denies the Son doesn’t have the Father either. Whoever acknowledges the Son also has the Father. 
Therefore, let that which you heard from the beginning live in you. If what you heard from the beginning lives in you, you also will live in the Son and in the Father. 
This is the promise that He has promised to us - eternal life. 
I have written these things to you about those who are trying to deceive you. 
As for you, the anointing that you received from Him lives in you, and you have no need for anyone to teach you. Yet as His anointing teaches you about all things, and is true and not a lie; just as it has taught you, you live in Him. 
Now, little children, live in Him, so that when He appears, we may have confidence and not shrink away from Him in shame at His coming. 
If you know that He is righteous, then know that everyone who also practices righteousness is born of Him. 
