John.
Chapter 9.
Passing by, Jesus saw a man who was blind from birth. 
His disciples asked Him, “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?” 
Jesus answered, “Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but this happened so that God’s works might be revealed in this man. 
We must work the works of Him who sent me, as long as it’s day. Night is coming, when nobody can work. 
As long as I am in the world, I am the world’s light.” 
After Jesus said this, He spat on the ground and made mud with the saliva, put it on the blind man’s eyes, 
and told him, “Go, wash in the pool of Siloam” (which means Sent). So he went away and washed, and came back seeing. 
Then the neighbors and those who used to see him as a beggar began to ask, “Isn’t this the man who used to sit and beg?” 
Some were saying, “Yes, it is he,” others were saying, “No, but he is like him.” He kept saying, “I’m the one.” 
So they asked him, “How were your eyes opened?” 
He answered, “The man called Jesus made mud, put it on my eyes, and told me, ‘Go to Siloam, and wash’; so I went and washed, and I received sight.” 
“Where is this man?” they asked him. “I don’t know,” he said. 
They brought the man who used to be blind to the Pharisees. 
Now it was a sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened the man’s eyes. 
So the Pharisees were also asking him how he received his sight. He told them, “He applied mud to my eyes, I washed, and I see.” 
Therefore some of the Pharisees said, “This Man isn’t from God, because He doesn’t keep the Sabbath.” Others said, “How can a sinner do such signs?” So there was a division among them. 
So they turned again to the blind man and asked, “What do you say about him? It was your eyes he opened.” He said, “He is a prophet.” 
The Jews didn’t believe that he had been blind, and had received sight, until they called the parents of the one who had received his sight, 
and questioned them, saying, “Is this your son, who you say was born blind? Then how does he now see?” 
His parents answered them, “We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind, 
but how he now sees, we don’t know. Who opened his eyes, we don’t know. Ask him. He is of age. He will speak for himself.” 
His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone would confess that Jesus was the Christ, they would be put out of the synagogue. 
For this reason, his parents said, “Ask him. He is of age.” 
So they called the man who had been blind a second time, and told him, “Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner.” 
He answered, “Whether He is a sinner or not I don’t know. One thing I do know: that though I was blind, now I see.” 
Then they asked him again, “What did He do to you? How did He open your eyes?” 
He answered, “I told you already, and you didn’t listen. Why do you want to hear it again? You don’t want to become His disciples, too, do you?” 
Then they became abusive towards him and said, “You are that man’s disciple, but we are Moses’ disciples. 
We know that God spoke to Moses, but as for this man, we don’t know where He is from.” 
The man answered, “How amazing! You don’t know where He comes from, yet He opened my eyes. 
We know that God doesn’t hear sinners, but if anyone is God-fearing, and does His will, He hears him. 
Since the beginning of time it has never been heard of that anyone opened the eyes of a person born blind. 
If this man weren’t from God, He could do nothing.” 
To this they replied, “Who are you to teach us? You were born entirely in sin!” Then they threw him out. 
Jesus heard that they had thrown him out, and finding him, He said, “Do you believe in the Son of Man?” 
He answered, “Who is He, sir, that I may believe in Him?” 
Jesus told him, “You have seen Him, and it is He who is talking with you.” 
Then he said, “Lord, I believe!” and he worshipped Jesus. 
Jesus said, “I came into this world for judgment, so that those who don’t see may see, and those who do see may become blind.” 
Some of the Pharisees who were with Him heard these things, and asked Him, “We aren’t blind too, are we?” 
Jesus told them, “If you were blind, you would have no sin, but since you say, ‘We see,’ your sin remains. 
