Revelation.
Chapter 17.
Then one of the seven angels having the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, “Come, I will show you the judgment of the great harlot who sits on many waters, 
with whom the kings of the earth committed fornication, and those dwelling on the earth became drunk from the wine of her fornication.” 
And he led me away in the Spirit, into a deserted place. And I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast full of blasphemous names, having seven heads and ten horns. 
And the woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, gilded with gold and precious stones and pearls, having in her hand a golden cup being filled with abominations and the filthiness of the fornication of the earth. 
And on her forehead a name was written, a mystery: BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND OF THE ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH. 
I saw the woman, drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And when I saw her, I marveled with great amazement. 
But the angel said to me, “Why did you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast carrying her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns. 
The beast which you saw was, and is not, and is about to ascend out of the bottomless pit and go to perdition. And those who dwell on the earth shall marvel, whose name is not written in the Book of Life from the foundation of the world, when they see the beast that was, and is not, and shall be present. 
“Here is the mind which has wisdom: The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits. 
And there are seven kings. Five have fallen, one is, and the other has not yet come. And whenever he comes, he must abide for a short time. 
And the beast which was, and is not, is also an eighth, and is of the seven, and is going to perdition. 
“And the ten horns which you saw are ten kings who have not yet have received a kingdom, but they receive authority as kings for one hour with the beast. 
These have one purpose, and they will give their power and authority to the beast. 
These will make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb will conquer them, for He is Lord of lords and King of kings; and those who are with Him are called, and elect, and faithful.” 
Then he said to me, “The waters which you saw, where the harlot sits, are peoples, multitudes, nations, and languages. 
And the ten horns which you saw, and the beast, these will hate the harlot, and will make her desolate and naked, and will eat her flesh, and will burn her up with fire. 
For God has put it into their hearts to fulfill His purpose, to be of one mind, and to give their kingdom to the beast, until the words of God are fulfilled. 
And the woman whom you saw is that great city which has royal rule over the kings of the earth.” 
