Mark.
Chapter 9.
And He said to them, “Assuredly, I say to you that there are some standing here who will by no means taste death till they see the kingdom of God actually come in power.” 
Now after six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John, and led them up into a high mountain alone by themselves. And He was transfigured before them, 
and His clothes became shining, exceedingly white, like snow, such as no launderer on earth is able to whiten. 
And Elijah appeared to them together with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. 
Then Peter answered and said to Jesus, “Rabbi, it is good for us to be here; and let us make three tents: one for You, one for Moses, and one for Elijah”— 
for he did not know what he should say, for they were terrified. 
And a cloud appeared overshadowing them, and a voice came out of the cloud, saying, “This is My beloved Son. Listen to Him!” 
And suddenly, looking around, they no longer saw anyone, but only Jesus with themselves. 
And as they came down from the mountain, He commanded them that they should relate to no one the things they had seen, till the Son of Man should rise from the dead. 
And this word they kept to themselves, questioning what it meant to rise from the dead. 
And they asked Him, saying, “Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?” 
And answering He said to them, “Indeed, Elijah is coming first and restores all things. And how is it written concerning the Son of Man, that He must suffer many things and be treated with contempt? 
But I say to you that indeed Elijah has come, and they did to him whatever they wished, just as it is written concerning him.” 
And when He came to the disciples, He saw a large crowd around them, and scribes disputing with them. 
Immediately, when they saw Him, all the people were greatly amazed, and running to Him, they greeted Him. 
And He asked the scribes, “What are you disputing about with them?” 
Then one of the crowd answered and said, “Teacher, I brought my son to You, because he has a mute spirit. 
And wherever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams at the mouth, and gnashes his teeth, and he becomes rigid. So I spoke to Your disciples, that they might cast it out, but they were not able.” 
He answered him and said, “O unbelieving generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to Me.” 
Then they brought the boy to Him. And when he saw Him, immediately the spirit convulsed him, and having fallen on the ground he was rolling about, foaming at the mouth. 
So He asked his father, “How long has this been happening to him?” And he said, “From childhood. 
And often it threw him both into the fire and into the waters so that it may destroy him. But if You are able to do anything, help us and have compassion on us.” 
Jesus said to him, “If you are able to believe: all things are possible to him that believes.” 
And immediately crying out, the father of the child said with tears, “I believe, Lord; help my unbelief!” 
When Jesus saw that a crowd was running together, He rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to him, “Mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and enter him no more!” 
Then having cried out and having convulsed him greatly, it came out. And he became as one dead, so that many were saying, “He is dead.” 
But Jesus, having grasped him by the hand, lifted him up, and he arose. 
And after He entered into a house, His disciples asked Him privately, “Why were we not able to cast it out?” 
So He said to them, “This kind can come out by nothing but prayer and fasting.” 
And having gone out from there they were passing through Galilee, and He did not wish that anyone should know. 
For He was teaching His disciples and said to them, “The Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of men, and they will kill Him. And after He is killed, He will rise on the third day.” 
But they did not understand this saying, and were afraid to ask Him. 
Then He came to Capernaum. And being in the house He asked them, “What were you disputing about with one another on the road?” 
But they were silent, for on the road they had discussed with one another who was the greatest. 
And having sat down He called the twelve, and said to them, “If anyone desires to be first, he shall be last of all and servant of all.” 
And taking a child, He stood him in their midst. And taking him in His arms, He said to them, 
“Whoever receives one of these little children in My name receives Me; and whoever receives Me, receives not Me, but Him who sent Me.” 
Now John answered Him, saying, “Teacher, we saw someone who does not follow with us casting out demons in Your name, and we forbade him because he does not follow with us.” 
But Jesus said, “Do not forbid him, for there is no one who will perform a miracle in My name that will be able to soon speak evil of Me. 
For he who is not against you is for you. 
For whoever gives you a cup of water to drink in My name, because you are Christ's, assuredly, I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward. 
“But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in Me to stumble, it would be better for him if a millstone were around his neck, and he be cast into the sea. 
If your hand causes you to stumble, cut it off. It would be better for you to enter into life maimed, than to enter having two hands, to go into hell, into the fire that shall never be quenched— 
where ‘Their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched.’ 
And if your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off. It would be better for you to enter into life lame, than having two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that shall never be quenched— 
where ‘Their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched.’ 
And if your eye causes you to stumble, cast it out. It would be better for you to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into the fiery hell, 
where ‘Their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched.’ 
“For everyone will be salted with fire, and every sacrifice will be seasoned with salt. 
Salt is good, but if the salt becomes unsalty, by what will you season it? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another.” 
