Revelation.
Chapter 5.
And I saw in the right hand of Him that sat on the throne a scroll, having been written inside and outside, and having been sealed with seven seals. 
Then I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, “Who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals?” 
And no one in heaven above or on the earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll, nor to look at it. 
And I began to weep much, because no one was found worthy to open the scroll, nor to look at it. 
But one of the elders said to me, “Do not weep. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome, to open the scroll and its seven seals.” 
And I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living beings, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb standing as if slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth. 
Then He came and took out of the right hand of Him that sat on the throne. 
And when He took the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each having a harp, and golden bowls being filled with incense, which are the prayers of the saints. 
And they sang a new song, saying: “You are worthy to take the scroll, And to open its seals; Because You were slain, And You redeemed us to God by Your blood, Out of every tribe and language and people and nation; 
And have made them kings and priests to our God; And they will reign on the earth.” 
Then I looked, and I heard as it were the voice of many angels around the throne, and the living beings, and the elders. And the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and a thousand thousands, 
saying with a loud voice: “Worthy is the Lamb who was slain To receive power and wealth and wisdom, And strength and honor and glory and blessing!” 
And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the sea, and all that are in them, I heard saying: “Blessing and honor and glory and power to Him that sits upon the throne, and to the Lamb, forever and ever. Amen!” 
And the four living beings said “Amen!” And the elders fell down and worshiped. 
