Acts.
Chapter 9.
Then Saul, still breathing murderous threats against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest 
and requested from him letters of authority to the synagogues of Damascus, that if he should find any who were of the Way, both men and women, he might bring them, having been bound, to Jerusalem. 
And as he was going, it came about that he drew near to Damascus, and suddenly a light shone around him from heaven. 
And falling on the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?” 
And he said, “Who are You, Lord?” And the Lord said, “I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. 
“But rise up and enter into the city, and it will be spoken to you what you must do.” 
And the men who were traveling with him stood speechless, hearing the voice but seeing no one. 
And Saul got up from the ground, and although his eyes were open, he saw no one; and leading him by the hand, they brought him into Damascus. 
And he was three days not seeing, and neither ate nor drank. 
Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias; and the Lord said to him in a vision, “Ananias.” And he said, “Behold I am here, Lord.” 
And the Lord said to him, “Arise and go to Straight Street, and seek out in the house of Judas a man named Saul, of Tarsus; for behold, he is praying. 
And he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him, so that he might see again.” 
But Ananias answered, “Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how many wicked things he has done to Your saints in Jerusalem; 
and here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who are calling on Your name.” 
But the Lord said to him, “Go, for he is a chosen vessel to Me to bear My name before Gentiles and kings, and the sons of Israel. 
For I will show him all the things that he must suffer for My name's sake.” 
And Ananias departed and entered the house; and putting his hands on him, he said, “Brother Saul, the Lord has sent me, the One who appeared to you in the way which you were coming, so that you may see again and be filled with the Holy Spirit.” 
And immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he could see again; and he got up and was baptized. 
And when he had received food, he was strengthened. Now Saul was with the disciples in Damascus for several days. 
And immediately in the synagogues he was proclaiming Christ, that He is the Son of God. 
And all those who heard were astounded, and were saying, “Is this not the one who destroyed those who called on this name in Jerusalem, and has come here for that purpose, so that he might bring them bound to the chief priests?” 
But Saul all the more was growing strong, and was confounding the Jews who were dwelling in Damascus, proving that Jesus was the Christ. 
Now when many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him. 
But their plot became known to Saul. And they closely watched the city gates both day and night, in order that they might kill him. 
But the disciples, taking him by night, they let him down through the wall, lowering him in a basket. 
Now when Saul arrived in Jerusalem, he tried to join himself to the disciples; but they all were afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple. 
But Barnabas, taking hold of him, brought him to the apostles, and related to them how he had seen the Lord on the road, and that He had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he spoke boldly in the name of Jesus. 
So he went in and out among them at Jerusalem, 
and speaking boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus, and he was speaking and disputing with the Greek-speaking Jews, but they were attempting to kill him. 
But the brothers, learning about it, brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus. 
Then the churches throughout all Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had peace and were edified, and walking in the fear of the Lord and in the encouragement of the Holy Spirit, they were multiplied. 
Now it came to pass, as Peter went through all parts of the country, that he went down to the saints who were dwelling in Lydda. 
And he found there a certain man named Aeneas, who had been confined to a bed for eight years, who was paralyzed. 
And Peter said to him, “Aeneas, Jesus the Christ heals you. Arise and make your bed.” Then he arose immediately. 
And all who were dwelling at Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord. 
Now in Joppa there was a certain disciple named Tabitha, which, being translated, means Dorcas. This woman was full of good works and charitable giving which she was doing. 
But it came about in those days that she became sick and died; and they washed her, and put her in an upper room. 
Now since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, having heard that Peter was in Joppa, sent to him, urging him not to delay in coming to them. 
And arising, Peter went with them. When he arrived, they took him into the upper room, and all the widows stood beside him weeping, showing him tunics and cloaks which Dorcas was making, while she was with them. 
But Peter, having put them all outside, knelt down and prayed. And turning to the body he said, “Tabitha, arise.” And she opened her eyes, and seeing Peter, she sat up. 
And giving to her his hand, he raised her up; and when he called the saints and the widows, he presented her alive. 
And it became known throughout all of Joppa, and many believed on the Lord. 
And he stayed for some time in Joppa with a tanner named Simon. 
