Luke.
Chapter 7.
Now when He finished all His sayings in the hearing of the people, He entered Capernaum. 
And a certain centurion's servant, who was highly valued by him, was sick and about to die. 
And when he heard about Jesus, he sent elders of the Jews to Him, asking Him that He might come and heal his servant. 
And when they came to Jesus, they begged Him earnestly, saying, “He is worthy for whom He should grant this, 
for he loves our nation, and he himself has built us a synagogue.” 
Then Jesus went with them. And when He was already not far away from the house, the centurion sent friends to Him, saying to Him, “Lord, do not trouble Yourself, for I am not worthy that You should enter under my roof. 
Therefore I did not even consider myself worthy to come to You. But just say the word, and my servant shall be healed. 
For I also am a man appointed under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.” 
When Jesus heard these things, He marveled at him, and turning to the crowd following Him, He said, “I say to you, I have not found such great faith, not even in Israel!” 
And when those who were sent returned to the house, they found the servant well who had been sick. 
Now it happened on the next day, that He went into a city called Nain; and many of His disciples went with Him, and a great crowd. 
And when He came near the gate of the city, that behold, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother; and she was a widow. And many people from the city was with her. 
When the Lord saw her, He had compassion on her and said to her, “Do not weep.” 
Then He came and touched the open coffin, and those who carried him stood still. And He said, “Young man, I say to you, arise.” 
So he who was dead sat up and began to speak. And He gave him to his mother. 
Then fear took hold of all, and they were glorifying God, saying, “A great prophet has risen up among us”; and, “God has visited His people.” 
And this report about Him went out in all Judea, and all the surrounding region. 
Then the disciples of John reported to him concerning all these things. 
And summoning two of his disciples, John sent them to Jesus, saying, “Are You the Coming One, or do we look for another?” 
And when they came to Him, the men said, “John the Baptist has sent us to You, saying, ‘Are You the Coming One, or do we look for another?’ ” 
And in that very hour He healed many from diseases, and torments, and evil spirits; and to many blind people He granted sight. 
Then Jesus answered and said to them, “Go and report to John what you have seen and heard: that the blind regain sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor have the gospel preached to them. 
And blessed is he who is not offended because of Me.” 
Now when John's messengers had departed, He began to speak to the crowds concerning John: “What have you gone out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? 
But what have you gone out to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Indeed those who are gorgeously appareled and live in luxury are in royal palaces. 
But what have you gone out to see? A prophet? Yes, I say to you, and much more than a prophet. 
This is he about whom it is written: ‘Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way before You.’ 
For I say to you, among those born of women there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist; but he who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.” 
And when all the people heard Him, even the tax collectors justified God, having been baptized with the baptism of John. 
But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God for themselves, because they had not been baptized by him. 
“Therefore to what shall I compare the men of this generation, and what are they like? 
They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another, saying: ‘We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; We mourned for you, and you did not weep.’ 
For John the Baptist has come neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon.’ 
The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, ‘Look, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ 
And so wisdom is justified by all her children.” 
Then one of the Pharisees asked Him to eat with him. And entering into the Pharisee's house, He reclined to eat. 
And behold, a woman in the city who was a sinner, when she found out that He was reclining in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster flask of perfume, 
and standing by His feet behind Him weeping; she began to wash His feet with her tears, and was wiping them with the hair of her head; and she was kissing His feet and anointing them with the perfume. 
Now when the Pharisee who had invited Him saw this, he spoke within himself, saying, “This Man, if He were a prophet, would know who and what sort of woman this is who touches Him, for she is a sinner.” 
And Jesus answered and said to him, “Simon, I have something to say to you.” And he said, “Teacher, say it.” 
“There was a certain creditor who had two debtors. One owed five hundred denarii, and the other owed fifty. 
And when they had nothing with which to pay back, he freely forgave them both. Tell Me, therefore, which of them will love him more?” 
Simon answered and said, “I suppose it is the one to whom he forgave more.” And He said to him, “You have judged correctly.” 
And turning to the woman, He said to Simon, “Do you see this woman? I entered into your house; you gave Me no water for My feet, but this woman has washed My feet with her tears and wiped them with the hair of her head. 
You gave Me no kiss, but this woman has not stopped kissing My feet since the time I came in. 
You did not anoint My head with oil, but this woman has anointed My feet with perfume. 
For which reason I say to you, her many sins have been forgiven, because she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little.” 
Then He said to her, “Your sins are forgiven.” 
And those who were reclining at the table with Him began to say within themselves, “Who is this who even forgives sins?” 
Then He said to the woman, “Your faith has saved you. Go in peace.” 
