Revelation.
Chapter 19.
After these things I heard as it were a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, saying, “Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God! 
For true and righteous are His judgments, for He has judged the great harlot who corrupted the earth with her fornication; and He has avenged the blood of His servants shed by her hand.” 
And a second one said, “Hallelujah! Her smoke goes up forever and ever!” 
And the twenty-four elders and the four living beings fell down and worshiped God who sits on the throne, saying, “Amen! Hallelujah!” 
Then a voice came from the throne, saying, “Praise our God, all His servants and those who fear Him, both small and great!” 
And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude, and like the sound of many waters, and like the sound of mighty thunders, saying, “Hallelujah! For the Lord God Almighty has begun to reign! 
Let us rejoice and be exceedingly glad, and let us give Him glory, for the wedding of the Lamb has come, and His wife has prepared herself.” 
And to her it was granted that she should be dressed in fine linen, bright and pure, for the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. 
Then he said to me, “Write: ‘Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb!’ ” And he said to me, “These are the true words of God.” 
And I fell before his feet to worship him. But he said to me, “See that you do not! I am your fellow servant, and of your brothers who have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God! For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.” 
And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. And He who sat on him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness He judges and makes war. 
His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on His head were many crowns, having names written, and a name written that no one knows except Himself. 
And He is clothed in a robe having been dipped in blood, and His name is called The Word of God. 
And the armies in heaven were following Him on white horses, having been dressed in fine linen, white and clean. 
And out of His mouth proceeds a sharp, double-edged sword, so that with it He might strike the nations. And He will shepherd them with an iron rod. And He treads the winepress of the wine of the wrath of Almighty God. 
And He has on His robe and on His thigh a name having been written: KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS. 
Then I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in the midst of heaven, “Come and gather together for the great supper of God, 
so that you may eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, the flesh of horses and of those who ride on them, and the flesh of all people, free and bond, both small and great.” 
And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies, having been gathered together to make war against Him who rode on the horse and against His army. 
Then the beast was apprehended, and with him the false prophet who had performed the signs before him, by which he had deceived those who received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire burning with brimstone. 
And the rest were slain with the sword which proceeds from the mouth of Him who rode on the horse. And all the birds gorged themselves with their flesh. 
