Luke.
Chapter 12.
Now in the meantime, as an innumerable crowd had gathered together so that they were stepping on one another, He began to say to His disciples first of all, “Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. 
For there is nothing covered that shall not be unveiled, and nothing secret that shall not be made known. 
Therefore whatever you have spoken in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have spoken in the ear behind closed doors shall be proclaimed on the housetops. 
“And I say to you, My friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have nothing further they can do. 
But I will show you whom you should fear: fear Him who after He kills, has authority to cast into hell; yes, I say to you, fear Him! 
“Are not five sparrows sold for two copper coins? And not one of them is forgotten before God. 
But the very hairs of your head have all been numbered. Do not fear therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows. 
“Also I say to you, whoever confesses Me before men, him the Son of Man also will confess before the angels of God. 
But he who denies Me before men will be denied before the angels of God. 
“And anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him; but to him who blasphemes against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven. 
“Now whenever they bring you to the synagogues and rulers and authorities, do not worry about how or what you should answer, or what you should say. 
For the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you must say.” 
Then someone from the crowd said to Him, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.” 
But He said to him, “Man, who appointed Me a judge or an arbitrator over you?” 
And He said to them, “Take heed and beware of covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions.” 
Then He told a parable to them, saying: “The field of a certain rich man produced well. 
And he reasoned within himself, saying, ‘What shall I do, because I have nowhere to gather my crops?’ 
So he said, ‘I will do this: I will tear down my barns and I will build bigger ones, and there I will gather all my crops and my goods. 
And I will say to my soul, “Soul, you have many goods laid away for many years; relax; eat, drink, and be merry.” ’ 
But God said to him, ‘You fool! This night your soul will be required of you; then whose will those things be which you have prepared?’ 
“So is he who accumulates treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.” 
Then He said to His disciples, “Therefore I say to you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat; nor about the body, what you will wear. 
Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing. 
Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, which have neither storeroom nor barn; and yet God feeds them. How much more are you worth than birds? 
And which of you by worrying can add one cubit to his stature? 
Therefore if you cannot do a very little thing, why do you worry about the rest? 
Consider the lilies, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin; and yet I say to you, not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed like one of these. 
But if God so clothes the grass, although it is in the field today, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, by how much rather will He clothe you, O you of little faith? 
“And do not seek what you may eat or what you may drink, and do not be anxious. 
For all these things the nations of the world seek after, but your Father knows that you need these things. 
But seek the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added to you. 
“Do not fear, little flock, because your Father is well pleased to give to you the kingdom. 
Sell your possessions and give alms; make for yourselves money bags which do not grow old, an unfailing treasure in the heavens, where a thief does not come near, nor does a moth destroy. 
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. 
“Let your waist be girded and your lamps burning; 
and you yourselves be like men who wait for their master, when he will return from the wedding celebration, so that when he comes and knocks, immediately they may open to him. 
Blessed are those servants whom the master, when he comes, will find watching. Assuredly I say to you, that he will gird himself and have them recline to eat, and he will come and serve them. 
And if he comes in the second watch, or comes in the third watch, and find them so, blessed are those servants. 
But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have kept watch, and not allowed his house to be broken into. 
Therefore you also be ready, for in an hour that you think not, the Son of Man comes.” 
Then Peter said to Him, “Lord, do You speak this parable only to us, or to all people?” 
And the Lord said, “Who then is a faithful and wise manager, whom his master will make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of food in due season? 
Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. 
Truly I say to you, that he will appoint him over all his possessions. 
But if that servant says in his heart, ‘My master is delaying his coming,’ and begins to beat the male and female servants, and to eat and drink and be drunk, 
the master of that servant will come on a day which he does not expect, and at an hour which he does not know, and he will cut him in two and appoint him his portion with the unbelievers. 
And that servant who knew his master's will, and did not get ready or do according to his will, shall be beaten with many blows. 
But he who did not know, yet did things worthy of blows, shall be beaten with few. For everyone to whom much is given, from him much will be required; and to whom much has been entrusted, of him they will ask much more. 
“I have come to cast fire to the earth, and how I wish it were already kindled! 
But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how distressed I am till it is completed! 
Do you think that I came to give peace on earth? I tell you, not at all, but rather division. 
For from now on five in one house will be divided: three against two, and two against three. 
Father will be divided against a son and a son against father, a mother against a daughter and a daughter against a mother, a mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.” 
Then He also said to the crowds, “Whenever you see a cloud rising from the west, immediately you say, ‘A rainstorm is coming’; and so it happens. 
And whenever you see the south wind blow, you say, ‘There will be hot weather’; and it happens. 
Hypocrites! You know how to discern the face of the earth and sky, but how is it you do not discern this time? 
And why do you not judge what is right, even of yourselves? 
When you go with your adversary to the magistrate, make an effort to make a settlement with him on the road, lest he drag you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the bailiff, and the bailiff throw you into prison. 
I tell you, you shall by no means depart from there till you have paid the very last mite.” 
