Corinthians.
Chapter 10.
Now I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea, 
and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, 
and all ate the same spiritual food, 
and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they were drinking from that spiritual Rock that followed them, and that Rock was Christ. 
Nevertheless, with the majority of them God was not pleased, for their bodies were scattered in the wilderness. 
Now these things took place as examples for us, in order that we should not lust after evil things, as they also lusted. 
Neither be idolaters, just as some of them; as it is written, “The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play.” 
Neither let us commit sexual immorality, just as some of them did, and in one day twenty-three thousand fell; 
neither let us tempt Christ, just as also some of them tempted Him, and were destroyed by serpents; 
nor murmur, just as also some of them murmured, and were destroyed by the destroyer. 
Now all these things happened to them as examples, and they were written for our instruction, to whom the ends of the ages have come. 
So then, let him who thinks he stands take heed, lest he fall! 
No temptation has overtaken you except such as is common to man; but God is faithful, who will not permit you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation, He will also provide the way out, so as for you to be able to bear it. 
Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. 
I speak as to wise men; judge for yourselves what I say. 
The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? 
Because we, though many, are one bread and one body; for we all partake from the one bread. 
Look at Israel according to the flesh: are not those who eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar? 
What am I saying then? That an idol is anything, or what is offered to idols is anything? 
No, but that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God, and I do not desire that you should have fellowship with demons. 
You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; you cannot partake of the Lord's table and of the table of demons. 
Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He? 
All things are lawful for me, but not all things are profitable; all things are lawful for me, but not all things edify. 
Let no one seek his own concerns, but let each one seek another's concern. 
Eat everything being sold in the meat market, questioning nothing, for conscience' sake; 
for “The earth is the Lord's, and all its fullness.” 
And if any of the unbelievers invites you to dinner, and you desire to go, eat whatever is set before you, questioning nothing, for conscience' sake. 
But if anyone says to you, “This was offered to idols,” do not eat it for the sake of the one who told you, and for his conscience' sake; for “The earth is the Lord's, and all its fullness.” 
“Conscience,” I say, not your own, but that of the other. For why is my freedom judged by another man's conscience? 
But if I partake with thanks, why am I defamed for that of which I give thanks? 
Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all things for the glory of God. 
Be without offense, both toward Jews and toward Greeks, and toward the church of God, 
just as I also please all men in all things, not seeking my own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved. 
