2 Corinthians.
Chapter 5.
For we know that if our earthly house, this tent, is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made by hand, eternal in the heavens. 
For also in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed with our habitation which is from heaven, 
if indeed, having been clothed, we shall not be found naked. 
For we who are in this tent groan, being burdened, inasmuch as we do not desire to be stripped, but to put on clothing, that that which is mortal may be swallowed up by life. 
Now He who has prepared us for this very purpose is God, who also has given to us the Spirit as a guarantee. 
Therefore always being confident, and knowing that while we are in the body, we are away from home from the Lord 
(for we walk by faith, not by sight), 
but we are confident and prefer rather to be away from home from the body, and to be at home with the Lord. 
Therefore also we have as our ambition, whether being at home, or being away from home, to be well pleasing to Him. 
For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done in the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. 
Knowing, therefore, the fear of the Lord, we persuade men; but we have been made known to God. And I also hope to have been made known in your consciences. 
For we do not commend ourselves again to you, but give to you an opportunity of boasting on our behalf, so that you may have an answer for those who boast in appearance and not in heart. 
For if we were beside ourselves, it was for God; or if we are of sound mind, it is for you. 
For the love of Christ compels us, having concluded this: that if One died for all, then all died; 
and He died for all, so that they who live should live no longer for themselves, but for the One who died for them and rose again. 
Therefore, from now on, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we have known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know Him thus no longer. 
Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; old things have passed away; behold, all things have become new. 
And all things are of God, who has reconciled us to Himself through Jesus Christ, and who gave to us the ministry of this reconciliation, 
that is, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to Himself, not counting their transgressions against them, and committing to us the word of this reconciliation. 
Now then, we serve as ambassadors for Christ, as though God were appealing through us: we implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. 
For He made Him who knew no sin to be sin for us, so that we might become the righteousness of God in Him. 
