Matthew.
Chapter 26.
Now it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these words, that He said to His disciples, 
“You know that after two days the Passover takes place, and the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified.” 
Then the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders of the people were assembled into the court of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas, 
and plotted to take Jesus by guile and kill Him. 
But they said, “Not during the feast, lest a disturbance take place among the people.” 
And when Jesus was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, 
a woman came to Him having an alabaster flask of very expensive perfume, and she began to pour it on His head as He reclined to eat. 
But when His disciples saw it, they became indignant, saying, “Why this waste? 
For this perfume could have been sold for much, and given to the poor.” 
But when Jesus became aware of it, He said to them, “Why do you trouble the woman? For she has done a beautiful work for Me. 
For you have the poor with you always, but Me you do not have always. 
For this woman, having put this perfume on My body, has done this for My burial. 
Assuredly I say to you, wherever this gospel is proclaimed in the whole world, what this woman has done will be spoken of as a memorial to her.” 
Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests 
and said, “What are you willing to give me if I deliver Him to you?” And they weighed out for him thirty silver coins. 
And from then on he sought an opportunity to betray Him. 
Now on the first day of the Feast of the Unleavened Bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying to Him, “Where do You desire that we shall prepare for You to eat the Passover?” 
And He said, “Go into the city to a certain man, and say to him, ‘The Teacher says, “My time is near; I will keep the Passover at your house with My disciples.” ’ ” 
So the disciples did as Jesus had directed them; and they prepared the Passover. 
And when it was evening, He was reclining to eat with the twelve. 
Now while they were eating, He said, “Assuredly I say to you, that one of you will betray Me.” 
And becoming exceedingly sorrowful, each of them began to say to Him, “Surely not I, Lord?” 
He answered and said, “He who dipped his hand with Me in the bowl will betray Me. 
Indeed, the Son of Man goes just as it is written about Him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of Man is betrayed! It would have been good for that man if he had not been born.” 
Then Judas, the one betraying Him, answered and said, “Surely not I am the one, Rabbi?” He said to him, “You have said it.” 
And as they were eating, Jesus took the bread, and giving thanks, He broke it, and gave it to the disciples and said, “Take, eat; this is My body.” 
Then He took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, “Drink of it, all of you, 
for this is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many, for the forgiveness of sins. 
But I say to you, that I will by no means drink of this fruit of the vine from now on, until that day when I drink it new with you in My Father's kingdom.” 
And having sung hymns, they went out to the Mount of Olives. 
Then Jesus said to them, “All of you will be made to stumble because of Me on this night, for it is written: ‘I will strike the Shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.’ 
But after I have been raised, I will go before you to Galilee.” 
Peter answered and said to Him, “Even if all may fall away because of You, yet I will never fall away.” 
Jesus said to him, “Assuredly I say to you that on this night, before the rooster crows, you will deny Me three times.” 
Peter said to Him, “Even if I have to die with You, by no means will I deny You!” And likewise said all the disciples. 
Then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and said to the disciples, “Sit here while I go off and pray over there.” 
And taking along Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, He began to be sorrowful and deeply distressed. 
Then Jesus said to them, “My soul is deeply grieved, to the point of death. Stay here and keep watch with Me.” 
He went a little farther and fell on His face, and prayed, saying, “O My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from Me; nevertheless, not as I will, but as You will.” 
Then He came to the disciples and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, “What? Were you not strong enough to watch with Me one hour? 
Watch and pray, lest you enter into temptation. Indeed the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.” 
Again, a second time, He went away and prayed, saying, “O My Father, if this cup cannot pass away from Me unless I drink it, let Your will be done.” 
And He came and found them sleeping again, for their eyes were heavy. 
And leaving them, He went away again, and prayed a third time, saying the same words. 
Then He came to His disciples and said to them, “Sleep now, and rest. Behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is being betrayed into the hands of sinners. 
Rise up, let us be going. See, he who betrays Me is at hand.” 
And while He was still speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve came, and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs, sent from the chief priests and elders of the people. 
Now the one betraying Him had given them a sign, saying, “Whomever I shall kiss, He is the One; seize Him.” 
And immediately he went up to Jesus and said, “Greetings, Rabbi!” and kissed Him. 
But Jesus said to him, “Friend, why have you come?” Then they came and laid hands on Jesus and seized Him. 
And behold, one of those with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword, and striking the servant of the high priest, he cut off his ear. 
But Jesus said to him, “Put your sword back into its place, for all those who take the sword shall perish by the sword. 
Or do you think that I cannot now call upon My Father, and He will furnish Me with more than twelve legions of angels? 
How then would the Scriptures be fulfilled, that it must happen thus?” 
In that hour Jesus said to the crowds, “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to arrest Me? I sat daily with you, teaching in the temple, and you did not seize Me. 
But all this has happened so that the Scriptures of the prophets may be fulfilled.” Then all the disciples forsook Him and fled. 
And those having seized Jesus led Him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered together. 
But Peter was following Him from a distance, up to the courtyard of the high priest. And entering inside, he sat down with the attendants to see the end. 
Now the chief priests, the elders, and all the Sanhedrin were seeking false witnesses against Jesus, so that they might put Him to death, 
and they did not find any. And though many false witnesses came forward, they did not find any. But at last two false witnesses came forward 
and said, “This Man said, ‘I am able to destroy the temple of God, and after three days to rebuild it.’ ” 
And standing up the high priest said to Him, “Do You answer nothing? What is it these men are testifying against You?” 
But Jesus kept silent. And the high priest answered and said to Him, “I adjure You by the living God: Tell us if You are the Christ, the Son of God!” 
Jesus said to him, “You said it. Nevertheless, I say to you, from now on, you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Power, and coming on the clouds of heaven.” 
Then the high priest tore his clothes, saying, “He has blasphemed! What further need do we have of witnesses? Look, now you have heard His blasphemy! 
What do you think?” They answered and said, “He is deserving of death.” 
Then they spat in His face, and beat Him with their fists; and they slapped Him, 
saying, “Prophesy to us, Christ! Who is he that struck You?” 
Now Peter sat outside in the courtyard. And a servant girl came to him, saying, “You also were with Jesus of Galilee.” 
But he denied it before them all, saying, “I do not know what you are saying.” 
And when he had gone out to the gateway, another girl saw him and said to them there, “This man was with Jesus the Nazarene.” 
But again he denied with an oath, “I do not know the Man!” 
And after a little while, those standing by came up and said to Peter, “Surely you also are one of them, for your accent gives you away.” 
Then he began to curse and swear, saying, “I do not know the Man!” And immediately a rooster crowed. 
And Peter remembered the word of Jesus which He said to him, “Before the rooster crows, you will deny Me three times.” And going out, he wept bitterly. 
