Matthew.
Chapter 25.
“Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, who having taken their lamps, went out to meet the bridegroom. 
Now five of them were wise, and five were foolish. 
Those who were foolish, having taken their lamps, did not take oil with them, 
but the wise took oil in their vessels along with their lamps. 
But while the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept. 
“And at midnight a cry was heard: ‘Behold, the bridegroom is coming; go out to meet him!’ 
Then all those virgins arose, and they trimmed their lamps. 
And the foolish said to the wise, ‘Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.’ 
But the wise answered, saying, ‘No, lest there should not be enough for you and us; but go rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.’ 
But as they went away to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding; and the door was shut. 
“Afterward the remaining virgins came also, saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open to us!’ 
But he answered and said, ‘Assuredly I say to you, I do not know you.’ 
“Watch therefore, for you do not know the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming. 
“For it is as if a man leaving on a journey, who called his own servants and handed over his possessions to them. 
And to the one he gave five talents, and to another two, and to another one, to each according to his own ability; and immediately he went on a journey. 
Then the one receiving the five talents went and traded with them, and made five other talents. 
And likewise the one receiving the two gained two more also. 
But the one receiving one went away and dug in the ground, and hid his lord's money. 
Then after much time, the lord of those servants returned and settled accounts with them. 
“And the one who had received five talents came and brought five other talents, saying, ‘Lord, you delivered to me five talents; look, I gained five more talents besides them.’ 
His lord said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant; you were faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’ 
And also the one receiving the two talents came and said, ‘Lord, you delivered to me two talents; look, I have gained two more talents besides them.’ 
His lord said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant; you have been faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’ 
“Then the one having received the one talent came and said, ‘Lord, I knew you, that you are a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you did not scatter. 
And being afraid, I went off and hid your talent in the ground. Look, you have what is yours.’ 
“But his lord answered and said to him, ‘You wicked and slothful servant, you knew that I reap where I did not sow, and gather where I did not scatter. 
Therefore you should have deposited my money with the bankers, and at my coming I would have received what is mine with interest. 
Therefore take the talent from him, and give it to him who has the ten talents. 
“ ‘For to everyone who has, more shall be given, and he shall have abundance; but to him who does not have, even what he has shall be taken away from him. 
And cast the useless servant into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’ ” 
“And when the Son of Man comes in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then will He sit upon His glorious throne. 
All the nations will be gathered before Him, and He will separate them one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. 
And He will set the sheep on His right hand, but the goats on His left. 
Then the King will say to those on His right hand, ‘Come, you blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: 
for I was hungry and you gave Me food; I was thirsty and you gave Me drink; I was a stranger and you took Me in; 
I was naked and you clothed Me; I was sick and you visited Me; I was in prison and you came to Me.’ 
“Then the righteous will answer Him, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see You hungry and feed You, or thirsty and give You drink? 
When did we see You a stranger and take You in, or naked and clothe You? 
Or when did we see You sick, or in prison, and come to You?’ 
And the King will answer and say to them, ‘Assuredly I say to you, inasmuch as you did it to one of the least of these My brothers, you did it to Me.’ 
“Then He will also say to those on the left, ‘Depart from Me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels: 
for I was hungry and you gave Me no food; I was thirsty and you gave Me no drink; 
I was a stranger and you did not take Me in, naked and you did not clothe Me, sick and in prison and you did not visit Me.’ 
“Then they also will answer, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see You hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and we did not minister to You?’ 
Then He will answer them, saying, ‘Assuredly I say to you, inasmuch as you did not do it to one of the least of these, neither did you do it to Me.’ 
And these shall go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.” 
