John.
Chapter 12.
Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was who had died, whom He raised from the dead. 
Then they made for Him a supper there; and Martha was serving, but Lazarus was one of those reclining to eat with Him. 
Then Mary, having taken a pound of very costly pure nard, anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped His feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. 
Then one of His disciples, Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, who was about to betray Him, said, 
“Why was this perfume not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?” 
This he said, not because he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief, and had the money box; and he used to pilfer the things which were placed in it. 
But Jesus said, “Let her alone; she has kept this for the day of My burial. 
For the poor you have with you always, but Me you do not have always.” 
Now a large crowd from the Jews knew that He was there; and they came, not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might also see Lazarus, whom He had raised from the dead. 
But the chief priests took counsel, that they might also kill Lazarus, 
because on account of him many of the Jews were going away, and were believing in Jesus. 
On the next day a large crowd which was coming to the feast, having heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 
took the branches of the palm trees and went out to meet Him, and they were crying out, “Hosanna! ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!’ The King of Israel!” 
Then Jesus, when He had found a young donkey, He sat on it; as it is written: 
“Do not fear, daughter of Zion; behold, your King is coming, sitting on the colt of a donkey.” 
His disciples did not understand these things at first; but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things were written about Him, and that they did these things to Him. 
Therefore the crowd which was with Him when He called Lazarus out of his tomb and raised him from the dead, was testifying. 
On account of this the crowd also met Him, because they heard that He had done this sign. 
The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, “You see that you are not doing any good. Look, the world has gone after Him!” 
And there were some Greeks among those coming up, so that they might worship at the feast. 
Then they approached Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and they asked him, saying, “Sir, we wish to see Jesus.” 
Philip came and told Andrew, and in turn Andrew and Philip told Jesus. 
But Jesus answered them, saying, “The hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified. 
Most assuredly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit. 
He that loves his life shall lose it, and he that hates his life in this world shall keep it for eternal life. 
And if anyone serve Me, let him follow Me; and where I am, there My servant shall be also. If anyone serve Me, him My Father will honor. 
“Now My soul has been troubled, and what shall I say? ‘Father, save Me from this hour’? But for this reason I came to this hour. 
Father, glorify Your name.” Then a voice came out of heaven, saying, “I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.” 
Therefore the crowd which was standing and heard were saying that it had thundered. Others were saying, “An angel has spoken to Him.” 
Jesus answered and said, “This voice did not come for My sake, but for your sake. 
Now is the judgment of this world; now the ruler of this world shall be cast out. 
And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all peoples to Myself.” 
This He said, signifying by what kind of death He was about to die. 
The crowd answered Him, “We heard from the law that the Christ abides forever; and so how do You say, ‘The Son of Man must be lifted up’? Who is this Son of Man?” 
Then Jesus said to them, “For yet a little while longer the light is with you. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you; he who walks in darkness does not know where he is going. 
While you have the light, believe in the light, so that you may become sons of light.” These things Jesus spoke, and departing, He was hidden from them. 
But even though He had done so many signs in their presence, they did not believe in Him, 
that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he said: “Lord, who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?” 
Therefore they could not believe, because Isaiah said again: 
“He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, lest they should see with their eyes, lest they should understand with their hearts and turn, and I would heal them.” 
These things Isaiah said when he saw His glory and spoke about Him. 
Nevertheless even from among the rulers many believed in Him, but because of the Pharisees they did not confess Him, lest they should be excommunicated; 
for they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God. 
Then Jesus cried out and said, “He who believes in Me, believes not in Me but in Him who sent Me. 
And he who sees Me sees Him who sent Me. 
I have come as a light into the world, so that whoever believes in Me may not abide in darkness. 
And if anyone hears My words and does not believe, I do not judge him; for I did not come that I might judge the world, but that I might save the world. 
He that rejects Me, and does not receive My words, has that which judges him—the word which I spoke, that word will judge him in the last day. 
For I have not spoken on My own authority; but the Father who sent Me gave Me a command, what I should say and what I should speak. 
And I know that His command is eternal life. Therefore, whatever I speak, as the Father has said to Me, so I speak.” 
