Hebrews.
Chapter 11.
Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. 
For by it the elders obtained witness. 
By faith we understand that time itself was framed by a command of God, so that the things which are seen were not made of things which are visible. 
By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying concerning his gifts; and through it, although he died, he still speaks. 
By faith Enoch was translated so as not to see death, “and he was not found, because God translated him”; for before his translation he had obtained witness that he was pleasing to God. 
And without faith it is impossible to please God, for it is necessary for the one approaching God to believe that He is, and that He becomes a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him. 
By faith Noah, having being warned by God concerning the things not yet seen, being reverent, prepared an ark for the salvation of his household, through which he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. 
By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go forth to the place which he was about to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. 
By faith he migrated into a land of promise as in a foreign land, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the fellow heirs of the same promise; 
for he waited for the city having foundations, whose builder and maker is God. 
By faith Sarah herself also received power for conception of seed, and she bore a child past the normal age, because she regarded Him faithful who had promised. 
Therefore even from one man they were begotten, and him as good as dead, just as the stars of the sky in multitude, and innumerable as the sand by the seashore. 
These all died according to faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off and welcoming them, and confessing that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. 
For those saying such things make evident that they seek a fatherland. 
And indeed if they had remembered that land from which they went out, they would have had opportunity to turn back. 
But now they desire a better land, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them. 
By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he that received the promises offered up his only begotten son, 
of whom it was spoken, “In Isaac your seed shall be called,” 
considering that even from the dead, God was able to raise him up, from which he also received him in a figurative sense. 
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. 
By faith Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning on the top of his staff. 
By faith Joseph, when he was dying, remembered concerning the exodus of the sons of Israel, and gave orders concerning his bones. 
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw a beautiful child; and they did not fear the edict of the king. 
By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, 
choosing rather to be mistreated with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season, 
regarding the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he was looking to the reward. 
By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the anger of the king; for he endured as seeing the Unseen One. 
By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of the blood, lest he who destroyed the firstborn should touch them. 
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land, whereas the Egyptians, attempting to do so, were drowned. 
By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, having been encircled for seven days. 
By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with those who did not believe, when she had received the spies with peace. 
And what more should I say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon, both Barak and Samson and Jephthah, both David and Samuel and the prophets: 
who through faith overcame kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, 
quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, became mighty in battle, turned to flight the armies of foreigners. 
Women received their dead back by resurrection. And others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, in order that they might obtain a better resurrection. 
Still others took a trial of mockings and scourgings, yes, and of chains and imprisonment. 
They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were tried, they were slain, being murdered with the sword. They went about in sheepskins and goatskins, being in want, being afflicted, being ill treated, 
of whom the world was not worthy, wandering in deserts and mountains and caves, and the holes of the earth. 
And all these, having obtained witness through their faith, did not receive the promise, 
God having provided something better for us, that they should not be made perfect apart from us. 
