Hebrews.
Chapter 13.
Let brotherly love continue. 
Do not forget hospitality, for by this some have entertained angels without knowing it. 
Remember the prisoners as if you were bound with them, and those who are ill treated, as you yourselves are in the body also. 
Marriage is honorable among all, and the bed undefiled; but fornicators and adulterers God will judge. 
Let your way of life be without loving money, being satisfied with what you have. For He Himself has said, “By no means shall I desert you, nor in any way shall I forsake you;” 
so that being confident, we may say: “The Lord is my helper; I will not fear. What can man do to me?” 
Remember your leaders, who spoke the word of God to you, of whom considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith. 
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. 
Do not be carried away by various and strange doctrines. For it is good for the heart to be established by grace, not by foods, by which those having walked were not profited. 
We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat. 
For of the animals, whose blood is brought into the Holies by the high priest as an offering for sin, the bodies of these animals are burned outside the camp. 
Therefore Jesus also, so that He might sanctify the people through His own blood, suffered outside the gate. 
Therefore let us go out to Him, outside the camp, bearing His reproach. 
For we have no permanent city, but we seek the city which is to come. 
Therefore through Him let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of our lips, confessing to His name. 
But do not forget the doing of good and generosity, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. 
Obey your leaders, and submit to them, for they keep watch over your souls, as giving an account, in order that they may do this with joy and not groaning, for this would be unprofitable for you. 
Pray for us; for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, in all things desiring to live commendably. 
But I especially urge you to do this, in order that I may be restored to you more quickly. 
Now may the God of peace, who brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead, that great Shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the everlasting covenant, 
make you complete in every good work to do His will, working in you what is well pleasing before Him, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. 
And I appeal to you, brothers, bear with this word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly. 
Know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom I shall see you, if he comes quickly. 
Greet all your leaders, and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you. 
Grace be with you all. Amen. 
