Luke.
Chapter 19.
And having entered, He passed through Jericho. 
And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, and he was a chief tax collector, and he was rich. 
And he was trying to see who Jesus was, but could not because of the crowd, for he was of short stature. 
And running up ahead in front, he went up into a sycamore tree so that he might see Him, because He was about to pass by that way. 
And when He came upon that place, Jesus looked up and saw him, and said to him, “Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for today I must stay in your house.” 
So he hurried and came down, and received Him, rejoicing. 
But when they saw it, they all were complaining, saying, “He has gone to be a guest with a sinner.” 
Then Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, “Look, Lord, I give half of my possessions to the poor; and if I have extorted anything from anyone, I restore fourfold.” 
And Jesus said to him, “Today salvation has come to this house, because he also is a son of Abraham; 
for the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost.” 
Now as they heard these things, He told another parable, because He was near Jerusalem and because they thought the kingdom of God would appear immediately. 
Therefore He said: “A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and to return. 
And having called ten of his servants, he gave them ten minas, and said to them, ‘Do business till I come.’ 
But his citizens hated him, and sent a delegation after him, saying, ‘We will not have this man to reign over us.’ 
“And so it was that when he returned, having received the kingdom, that he commanded those servants to whom he had given the money, to be called to him, so that he might know who gained what by trading. 
Then came the first, saying, ‘Master, your mina has earned ten minas.’ 
And he said to him, ‘Well done, good servant; because you were faithful in a very little, have authority over ten cities.’ 
And the second came, saying, ‘Master, your mina made five minas.’ 
Likewise he said to him, ‘You also be over five cities.’ 
“Then another came, saying, ‘Master, behold your mina, which I had laid away in a handkerchief. 
For I feared you, because you are a harsh man. You take up what you did not deposit, and reap what you did not sow.’ 
And he said to him, ‘Out of your own mouth I will judge you, you wicked servant. You knew that I was a harsh man, taking up what I did not deposit, and reaping what I did not sow. 
Why then did you not give my money to a bank, and when I came, I would have collected it with interest?’ 
“And he said to those standing by, ‘Take the mina away from him, and give it to him who has ten minas.’ 
But they said to him, ‘Master, he has ten minas.’ 
‘For I say to you that to everyone who has, more shall be given; and from him who does not have, even what he has shall be taken away from him. 
Nevertheless bring here those enemies of mine, who did not want me to reign over them, and slay them before me.’ ” 
And having said these things, He went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem. 
And it came to pass, as He drew near to Bethphage and Bethany, to the mountain which is called Olivet, that He sent two of His disciples, 
saying, “Go into the village opposite you, in which when you enter you will find a colt tied up, on which no one of men has ever sat. Loose him and bring him here. 
And if anyone asks you, ‘Why are you loosing him?’ thus you shall say to him, ‘Because the Lord has need of him.’ ” 
So those who were sent departed and found it just as He told them. 
But as they were loosing the colt, the owners of it said to them, “Why are you loosing the colt?” 
And they said, “The Lord has need of him.” 
Then they brought him to Jesus. And when they threw their own clothes on the colt, they set Jesus on him. 
And as He went, they were spreading their clothes under Him on the road. 
And as He was approaching the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the miracles which they had seen, 
saying: “ ‘Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord!’ Peace in heaven and glory in the highest!” 
And some of the Pharisees said to Him from the crowd, “Teacher, rebuke Your disciples.” 
But He answered and said to them, “I tell you that if these should keep silent, the stones would immediately cry out.” 
And as He drew near, seeing the city, He wept over it, 
saying, “If you had known, even you, especially in this your day, the things pertaining to your peace! But now they have been hidden from your eyes. 
For the days will come upon you when your enemies will build an embankment around you, surround you and hem you in from every side, 
and they will level you to the ground, and your children with you; and they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not know the season of your visitation.” 
And when He entered into the temple, He began to drive out those buying and selling in it, 
saying to them, “It is written, ‘My house is a house of prayer,’ but you have made it a ‘den of thieves.’ ” 
And He was teaching daily in the temple. But the chief priests, the scribes, and the leaders of the people were seeking to destroy Him, 
and were unable to do anything; for all the people were very attentive to hear Him. 
