Romans.
Chapter 2.
Therefore you are inexcusable, O man, everyone who judges, for in whatever you judge another you condemn yourself, for you who judge are practicing the same things. 
But we know that the judgment of God is according to truth upon those practicing such things. 
But do you suppose this, O man, you who judge those practicing such things yet doing them, that you will escape the judgment of God? 
Or do you despise the riches of His kindness and tolerance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance? 
But according to your hardness and impenitent heart you are storing up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation, and of the righteous judgment of God, 
who “will recompense to each one according to his works”: 
to those who by the endurance of good works are seeking glory and honor and incorruption—eternal life. 
But to those who are contentious, and who disobey the truth, but obey unrighteousness—indignation and wrath, 
tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that works evil, of the Jew first and also of the Greek; 
but glory, honor, and peace to everyone that works good, both to the Jew first and to the Greek. 
For there is no partiality with God. 
For all who have sinned without the law shall also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law shall be judged by the law 
(for it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified; 
for whenever Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, these, not having the law, are a law unto themselves, 
who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience witnessing with them, and among themselves their thoughts accuse or even defend them), 
in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men according to my gospel through Jesus Christ. 
Behold, you are called a Jew, and rely on the law, and boast in God, 
and know His will, and approve the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law, 
and are convinced that you are a guide to the blind, a light to those in darkness, 
an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of the immature, having the embodiment of knowledge and of the truth in the law. 
You, therefore, who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that a man should not steal, do you steal? 
You who say, “Do not commit adultery,” do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you commit sacrilege? 
You who boast in the law, do you dishonor God through the transgression of the law? 
For “The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you,” just as it is written. 
For indeed circumcision profits if you keep the law; but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. 
Therefore, if an uncircumcised man keeps the righteous requirements of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? 
And will not the physically uncircumcised, who keeps the law, judge you along with your written code and circumcision, as a lawbreaker? 
For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in flesh; 
but he is a Jew that is one inwardly; and circumcision is of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not from men but from God. 
