Romans.
Chapter 5.
Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
through whom we have also gained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. 
And not only that, but we also rejoice in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces endurance; 
and endurance, approved character; and approved character, hope. 
And hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. 
For while we were still weak, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. 
For scarcely on behalf of a righteous man will anyone die; though perhaps for a good man someone might even dare to die. 
But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. 
Much more then, having now been justified by His blood, we shall be saved from wrath through Him. 
For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of His Son, much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved by His life. 
And not only that, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom now we received the reconciliation. 
Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world, and death through sin, and thus death passed to all men, because all sinned— 
(For until the law sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. 
Yet death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who did not sin according to the likeness of the transgression of Adam, who is a type of Him who was to come. 
But the free gift is not like the transgression. For if by the transgression of the one man many died, much more the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one Man, Jesus Christ, abounded to the many. 
And the gift is not as by one having sinned. For the judgment which came from one offense brought condemnation, but the free gift from many offenses brought justification. 
For if by the transgression of one man death reigned through that one man, much more those receiving the abundance of the grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the One, Jesus Christ.) 
So then, as through one man's transgression judgment came to all men, resulting in condemnation, even so through one Man's righteous act the free gift came to all men, resulting in justification of life. 
For through the disobedience of one man many were constituted sinners, so also through the obedience of one Man many shall be constituted righteous. 
But the law came in alongside, so that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace superabounded, 
so that just as sin reigned in death, so also grace might reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. 
