Matthew.
Chapter 4.
Then Jesus was led up into the wilderness by the Spirit, to be tempted by the devil. 
And having fasted forty days and forty nights, afterward He was hungry. 
And approaching Him, the tempter said, “If You are the Son of God, command that these stones may become bread.” 
But He answered and said, “It is written, ‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God.’ ” 
Then the devil took Him up into the holy city, and set Him on the pinnacle of the temple, 
and said to Him, “If You are the Son of God, throw Yourself down. For it is written: ‘He shall give His angels charge concerning you,’ and, ‘In their hands they will lift you up, lest you dash your foot against a stone.’ ” 
Jesus said to him, “Again, it is written, ‘You shall not tempt the Lord your God.’ ” 
Again, the devil took Him up on a very high mountain, and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory. 
And he said to Him, “All these things will I give You, if You will fall down and worship me.” 
Then Jesus said to him, “Get behind Me, Satan! For it is written, ‘You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him alone you shall serve.’ ” 
Then the devil left Him, and behold, angels came and ministered to Him. 
Now when Jesus heard that John had been imprisoned, He departed into Galilee. 
And leaving Nazareth behind, He came and settled down in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the regions of Zebulun and Naphtali, 
so that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying: 
“The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, 
the people sitting in darkness have seen a great light, and to those who sat in the land and the shadow of death, light has dawned.” 
From that time Jesus began to preach and to say, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.” 
Now as He was walking alongside the Sea of Galilee, He saw two brothers, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea; for they were fishermen. 
Then He said to them, “Come after Me, and I will make you fishers of men.” 
They immediately left their nets and followed Him. 
And having gone forth from there, He saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. And He called them. 
And immediately they left the boat and their father, and followed Him. 
And Jesus went about all of Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every illness among the people. 
And the report of Him went throughout all Syria; and they brought to Him all those who were sick, and who were suffering with various diseases and torments, and those who were demon-possessed, epileptics, and paralytics; and He healed them. 
And large crowds followed Him from Galilee and from Decapolis, and Jerusalem, and Judea, and beyond the Jordan. 
