2 Corinthians.
Chapter 7.
Therefore, having these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. 
Receive us in your hearts. We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have defrauded no one. 
I do not speak to condemn you; for I have said before that you are in our hearts, so that we die together and we live together. 
Great is my confidence toward you, great is my boasting concerning you. I have been filled with comfort. I am exceedingly joyful in all our tribulation. 
For indeed, when we came to Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were afflicted on every side; outside were fightings, inside were fears. 
Nevertheless God, who comforts the downcast, comforted us by the coming of Titus, 
and not only by his coming, but also by the consolation with which he was comforted over you, as he reported to us your earnest longing, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced even more. 
Because even if I made you sorry in the letter, I do not regret it, even if I did regret it. For I perceive that the same letter made you sorry, though only for a season. 
Now I rejoice, not because you were made sorry, but because your sorrow led to repentance; for you were made sorry in a godly manner, that you might suffer loss from us in nothing. 
For godly sorrow brings about repentance leading to salvation, without regret; but worldly sorrow brings about death. 
For behold this very thing, that you sorrowed in a godly manner, how much diligence it brought about in you, even an eagerness to defend, even indignation, even fear, even longing, even zeal, even vengeance! In all things you demonstrated yourselves to be pure in this matter. 
Therefore, although I wrote to you, it was not for the sake of him who did the wrong, nor for the sake of him who was wronged, but so that your diligence on our behalf might be made known to you before God. 
Because of this we have been comforted. And in your comfort we rejoiced exceedingly more over the joy of Titus, because his spirit has been refreshed by you all. 
Because if in anything I have boasted to him concerning you, I was not put to shame, but as we spoke all things to you in truth, thus also our boasting to Titus became truth. 
And his affections are far greater toward you as he remembers the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling you received him. 
Therefore I rejoice that in everything I am confident in you. 
