1 Timothy.
Chapter 5.
Do not sharply rebuke an older man, but rather exhort him as a father, younger men as brothers, 
older women as mothers, younger women as sisters, with all purity. 
Honor widows who are really widows. 
But if a certain widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show piety to their own household and to make repayment to their parents; for this is acceptable before God. 
Now she who is really a widow and having been left alone, has set her hope on God, and continues in supplications and prayers night and day. 
But she who is living for pleasure is dead while she lives. 
And these things command, so that they may be blameless. 
But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his own house, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. 
Let a widow be enrolled having become not less than sixty years, the wife of one man, 
having a reputation for good works, if she has brought up children, if she has lodged strangers, if she has washed the saints' feet, if she has relieved the afflicted, if she has diligently followed every good work. 
But refuse to enroll the younger widows; for whenever they grow lustful against Christ, they desire to marry, 
having condemnation because they have set aside their first faith. 
And besides they learn to be idle, going around from house to house, and not only idle but also gossipy and busybodies, speaking things which are not proper. 
Therefore I desire the younger widows to marry, to bear children, to manage the house, to give no opportunity to the adversary because of reproach. 
For already some have turned aside after Satan. 
If any believing man or believing woman has widows, let that one relieve them, and do not let the church be burdened, that it may relieve those who are really widows. 
Let the elders having ruled well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and doctrine. 
For the Scripture says, “You shall not muzzle an ox threshing grain,” and, “The worker is worthy of his wages.” 
Do not receive an accusation against an elder unless on the basis of two or three witnesses. 
Those who are sinning rebuke before all, that the rest also may have fear. 
I charge you before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels that you observe these things without prejudice, doing nothing according to partiality. 
Lay hands on no one hastily, nor share in the sins of others; keep yourself pure. 
No longer drink water only, but use a little wine on account of your stomach, and your frequent illnesses. 
The sins of some men are evident beforehand, preceding them to judgment, but some also follow after. 
Likewise also the good works of some are evident beforehand, and those which are otherwise cannot be hidden. 
