2 Timothy.
Chapter 2.
You therefore, my child, be empowered by the grace which is in Christ Jesus. 
And the things which you have heard from me through many witnesses, commit these to faithful men who will be competent to teach others also. 
You therefore endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. 
No one serving as a soldier entangles himself in the affairs of civilian life, in order that he may please the one having enlisted him. 
And also if anyone competes in athletics, he is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. 
It is necessary for the hard-working farmer to be first to receive of the fruits. 
Consider the things I say, and may the Lord give you understanding in all things. 
Remember that Jesus Christ, of the seed of David, was raised from the dead according to my gospel, 
in which I endure hardship unto chains as an evildoer; but the word of God is not chained. 
Because of this, I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. 
Faithful is this word: For if we died with Him, We shall also live with Him. 
If we endure, we shall also reign with Him. If we deny Him, He also will deny us. 
If we are faithless, He remains faithful; He cannot deny Himself. 
Remind them of these things, charging them before the Lord not to dispute about words, useful for nothing, for the ruin of the hearers. 
Be diligent to show yourself approved unto God, a worker unashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. 
But shun profane and empty babblings; for they will advance to more ungodliness. 
And their word will spread like gangrene; of whom are Hymenaeus and Philetus, 
who have strayed concerning the truth, asserting that the resurrection has already occurred; and they overturn the faith of some. 
Nevertheless the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal: “The Lord knows those that are His,” and, “Let everyone naming the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness.” 
Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and clay, some for honor and some for dishonor. 
Therefore if anyone cleanses himself from the latter, he will be a vessel for honor, having been consecrated and useful to the Master, having been prepared for every good work. 
Flee youthful lusts; but pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart. 
But reject foolish and ignorant disputes, knowing that they bring forth fights. 
And a servant of the Lord ought not to fight, but to be gentle to all, skillful at teaching, forbearing, 
in meekness instructing those that oppose, if God perhaps may give them repentance, to a full knowledge of the truth, 
and they regain their senses and escape out of the snare of the devil, having been captured alive by him to do his will. 
