Matthew.
Chapter 14.
At that time Herod the tetrarch heard the report about Jesus, 
and said to his servants, “This is John the Baptist; he has been raised from the dead, and therefore these powers are at work in him.” 
For Herod had laid hold of John and bound him, and put him in prison on account of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife. 
For John said to him, “It is not lawful for you to have her.” 
Though desiring to kill him, he feared the crowd, because they regarded him as a prophet. 
Now when Herod's birthday was being celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced before them, and she pleased Herod. 
Therefore he promised with an oath to give her whatever she should ask. 
So she, being urged on by her mother, said, “Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptist.” 
And the king was grieved, but because of the oaths, and because of those who reclined to eat with him, he commanded it to be given. 
And having sent, he beheaded John in the prison. 
And his head was brought on a platter and it was given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. 
Then his disciples came forward and took the body and buried it, and coming, they reported it to Jesus. 
When Jesus heard it, He withdrew from there in a boat for a deserted place privately. But when the crowds heard it, they followed Him on foot from the cities. 
And coming out, Jesus saw a large crowd, and He was moved with compassion towards them, and healed their sick. 
Now when evening came, His disciples came to Him, saying, “The place is deserted, and the hour is already late. Dismiss the crowds, that they may go to the villages and buy food for themselves.” 
But Jesus said to them, “They do not need to go away. You give them food to eat.” 
And they said to Him, “We do not have anything here except five loaves of bread and two fish.” 
But He said, “Bring them here to Me.” 
And commanding the crowds to recline on the grass, taking the five loaves of bread and the two fish, looking up to heaven, He blessed, and breaking them, He gave the loaves to the disciples; and the disciples gave to the crowds. 
So they all ate and were satisfied, and they took up what they had left of the fragments, twelve baskets full. 
Now those who had eaten were about five thousand men, apart from women and children. 
And immediately Jesus compelled the disciples to get into the boat, and to go ahead of Him to the other side, until He could dismiss the crowds. 
And having dismissed the crowds, He went up on the mountain privately to pray. And when evening had come, He was there alone. 
But the boat was now in the middle of the sea, being harassed by the waves, for the wind was against them. 
Now in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went to them, walking on the sea. 
And when the disciples saw Him walking on the sea, they were terrified, and said, “It is a ghost!” And they cried out for fear. 
But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, “Have courage! It is I AM; do not fear.” 
But Peter answered Him and said, “Lord, if it is You, command me to come to You on the waters.” 
So He said, “Come.” And stepping down from the boat, Peter walked on the waters to go toward Jesus. 
But seeing the strong wind, he was afraid, and beginning to sink he cried out, saying, “Lord, save me!” 
And immediately, Jesus reaching out His hand, laid hold of him, and said to him, “O you of little faith, why did you doubt?” 
And when they had gotten into the boat, the wind ceased. 
Then those who were in the boat came and worshiped Him, saying, “Truly You are the Son of God.” 
And having crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret. 
And when the men of that place recognized Him, they sent out into all that surrounding region, and they brought to Him all those who were sick, 
and implored Him that they might only touch the hem of His garment. And as many as touched Him were completely healed. 
