2 Corinthians.
Chapter 4.
Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we do not despair, 
but we have renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness nor falsifying the word of God, but by the disclosure of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience before God. 
But even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled among those who are perishing, 
among whom the god of this age has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, so that the illumination of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God, should not shine on them. 
For we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your bondservants for Jesus' sake. 
Because it is God who commanded light to shine out of darkness, who shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. 
But we have this treasure in jars of clay, so that the extraordinary character of the power may be of God and not of us; 
in everything being oppressed, yet not crushed; perplexed, but not in despair; 
persecuted, but not abandoned; cast down, but not destroyed; 
always carrying about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be revealed in our body. 
For we who are living are always handed over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifest in our body. 
So then death is working in us, but life in you. 
And since we have the same spirit of faith, according to that which is written, “I believed, and therefore I spoke,” we also believe, therefore we also speak, 
knowing that He who raised the Lord Jesus will also raise us through Jesus, and will present us together with you. 
For all things are for your sakes, that grace, having spread through the many, may cause thanksgiving to abound to the glory of God. 
Therefore we do not despair, but even if our outward man is decaying, yet the inward man is being renewed day by day. 
For our momentary light affliction is working out for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, 
while we do not look at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are for a season, but the things which are not seen last forever. 
