John.
Chapter 8.
But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. 
And early in the morning, He came again into the temple, and all the people came to Him; and having sat down, He began to teach them. 
Then the scribes and Pharisees brought to Him a woman who had been caught in adultery, and having stood her in the midst, 
they said to Him, “Teacher, we found this woman committing adultery, in the very act. 
Now Moses, in our law, commanded to cast stones at such. Therefore what do You say?” 
But this they said, testing Him, that they might have an accusation against Him. But Jesus, stooping down, began to write on the ground with His finger, not taking notice. 
And while they were continuing questioning Him, rising up, He said unto them, “He who is without sin among you, let him be the first to cast a stone at her.” 
And again He stooped down and wrote on the ground. 
And those who heard it began to go out one by one, beginning with the oldest even to the last. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman being in the midst. 
And standing up and seeing no one but the woman, Jesus said to her, “Woman, where are those accusers of yours? Has no one condemned you?” 
She said, “No one, Lord.” And Jesus said to her, “Neither do I condemn you; go, and from now on sin no more.” 
Then Jesus spoke to them again, saying, “I am the light of the world. He that follows Me shall by no means walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.” 
Therefore the Pharisees said to Him, “You testify about Yourself; Your testimony is not true.” 
Jesus answered and said to them, “Even if I should testify about Myself, My testimony is true, because I know where I came from and where I am going; but you do not know where I come from or where I am going. 
You judge according to the flesh; I judge no one. 
But even if I do judge, My judgment is true; because I am not alone, but I am with the Father who sent Me. 
It is also written in your law that the testimony of two men is true. 
I am the One testifying about Myself, and the Father who sent Me testifies about Me.” 
Then they said to Him, “Where is Your Father?” Jesus answered, “You know neither Me nor My Father. If you knew Me, you would also know My Father.” 
These words Jesus spoke in the treasury, while teaching in the temple; and no one seized Him, for His time had not yet come. 
Then Jesus said to them again, “I am going away, and you will seek Me, and will die in your sin. Where I go you cannot come.” 
So the Jews said, “Surely He will not kill Himself, will He, since He says, ‘Where I am going you cannot come’?” 
And He said to them, “You are from below; I am from above. You are from this world; I am not from this world. 
Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins; for if you do not believe that I AM, you will die in your sins.” 
Then they said to Him, “Who are You?” And Jesus said to them, “Just what I have been saying to you from the beginning. 
I have many things to say and to judge concerning you, but He who sent Me is true; and the things which I heard from Him, these things I say to the world.” 
They did not know that He was speaking to them about the Father. 
Therefore Jesus said to them, “When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I AM, and from Myself I do nothing; but just as My Father taught Me, these things I speak. 
And He who sent Me is with Me. The Father has not left Me alone, because I always do the things that are pleasing to Him.” 
While He spoke these words, many believed in Him. 
Then Jesus said to those Jews who had believed Him, “If you abide in My word, truly you are My disciples. 
And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free.” 
They answered Him, “We are Abraham's descendants, and have never been in bondage to anyone. How can you say, ‘You will become free’?” 
Jesus answered them, “Most assuredly I say to you, that everyone that practices sin is a slave of sin. 
And a slave does not remain in the house forever, but a son remains forever. 
Therefore if the Son sets you free, you will be truly free. 
“I know that you are Abraham's seed, but you seek to kill Me, because My word finds no place in you. 
I speak what I have seen with My Father, and you do what you have seen with your father.” 
They answered and said to Him, “Abraham is our father.” Jesus said to them, “If you were Abraham's children, you would do the works of Abraham. 
But now you seek to kill Me, a Man who has spoken to you the truth which I heard from God. Abraham did not do this. 
You do the works of your father.” Then they said to Him, “We were not born of fornication; we have one Father—God.” 
Therefore Jesus said to them, “If God were your Father, you would have loved Me, for I came forth and have come from God; nor have I come from Myself, but He sent Me. 
Why do you not understand what I say? Because you are unable to hear My word. 
You are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father you desire to do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has not stood in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he tells a lie, he speaks from his own resources, for he is a liar, and the father of lies. 
But because I tell the truth, you do not believe Me. 
Which of you convicts Me of sin? And if I tell the truth, why do you not believe Me? 
He who is of God hears God's words; therefore you do not hear them, because you are not of God.” 
Then the Jews answered and said to Him, “Do we not say well that You are a Samaritan, and You have a demon?” 
Jesus answered, “I do not have a demon; but I honor My Father, and you dishonor Me. 
And I do not seek My own glory; there is One who seeks it and who judges. 
Most assuredly I say to you, if anyone keeps My word he shall by no means experience death.” 
Then the Jews said to Him, “Now we know that You have a demon! Abraham and the prophets died, and You say, ‘If anyone keeps My word he shall by no means taste death.’ 
Are You greater than our father Abraham, who died? Also the prophets died. Whom do You make Yourself out to be?” 
Jesus answered, “If I glorify Myself, My glory is nothing. It is My Father who glorifies Me, of whom you say that He is our God. 
And yet you have not known Him, but I know Him. And if I would say that I do not know Him, I would be like you, a liar; but I do know Him, and I keep His word. 
Your father Abraham rejoiced to see My day, and he saw it and was glad.” 
Then the Jews said to Him, “You are not yet fifty years old, and have You seen Abraham?” 
Jesus said to them, “Most assuredly I say to you, before Abraham was, I AM.” 
Therefore they picked up stones to throw at Him; but Jesus hid Himself and went out of the temple, having gone through their midst, and so passed by. 
