The Second Epistle Of Paul To Timothy.
Chapter 1.
Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus, 
To Timothy, my beloved son: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. 
I give thanks to God, whom I serve with a pure conscience, as my forefathers did, how unceasingly I have remembrance of you in my prayers night and day, 
longing to see you, having recalled your tears, that I may be filled with joy, 
taking recollection of the genuine faith that is in you, which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice, and I am persuaded is in you also. 
For which cause I remind you to stir up the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. 
For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. 
Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me His prisoner, but endure hardship with the gospel according to the power of God, 
who having saved us, and having called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to His own purpose and grace which was given to us in Christ Jesus before time itself, 
but has now been revealed through the appearance of our Savior Jesus Christ, having abolished death on the one hand, and having brought to life immortality through the gospel on the other, 
to which I was appointed a herald and apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles. 
For which cause I also suffer these things; but I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I have been persuaded that He is able to guard that which I have committed to Him until that Day. 
Hold to the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me, in faith and love which are in Christ Jesus. 
That good thing which was committed to you, guard by the Holy Spirit who dwells in us. 
This you know, that all those in Asia have turned away from me, of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes. 
May the Lord grant mercy to the household of Onesiphorus, because he often refreshed me, and he was not ashamed of my chain; 
but when he arrived in Rome, he more diligently sought me out and found me. 
May the Lord grant to him to find mercy from the Lord in that Day—and you very well know how many ways he served in Ephesus. 
