Colossians.
Chapter 3.
If then you have been raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. 
Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. 
For you died, and your life has been hidden with Christ in God. 
Whenever Christ who is our life appears, then you also will appear with Him in glory. 
Therefore put to death your members on the earth: sexual immorality, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and greed, which is idolatry. 
Because of which things the wrath of God is coming on the sons of disobedience, 
in which you yourselves once walked when you lived in them. 
But now you yourselves are to put off all these: wrath, anger, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. 
Do not lie to one another, since you have laid aside the old man with his practices, 
and have put on the new man who is renewed in full knowledge according to the image of Him who created it, 
where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcised nor uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave nor free, but Christ is all and in all. 
Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on hearts of compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, patience; 
forbearing one another and forgiving yourselves, if anyone should have a complaint against any; just as Christ forgave you, so you also do. 
But above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfection. 
And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body; and be thankful. 
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. 
And whatsoever you may do in word or deed, do all things in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him. 
Wives, subject yourselves to your own husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. 
Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter toward them. 
Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing in the Lord. 
Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged. 
Bondservants, obey your masters according to the flesh in all things, not with eye-service, as men-pleasers, but in sincerity of heart, fearing God. 
And whatever you may do, work it from your soul, as to the Lord and not to men, 
knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance, for you serve the Lord Christ. 
But he who does wrong will be repaid for what he has done, and there is no partiality. 
