The Gospel of Mark.
Chapter 1.
The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. 
As it is written in the Prophets: “Behold, I send My messenger before Your face, who will prepare Your way before You.” 
“The voice of one crying in the wilderness: ‘In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord; make His paths straight.’ ” 
John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. 
And all the Judean country and the inhabitants of Jerusalem went out to him and were all baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins. 
Now John was clothed with camel's hair and with a leather belt around his waist, and was eating locusts and wild honey. 
And he was preaching, saying, “There comes One after me who is stronger than me, of whom I am not worthy to stoop down and to loose the strap of His sandal. 
I baptized you in water, but He will baptize you in the Holy Spirit.” 
It came to pass in those days that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized by John in the Jordan. 
And immediately, coming up from the water, He saw the heavens parting and the Spirit coming down upon Him like a dove. 
Then a voice came from the heavens, “You are My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.” 
And immediately the Spirit drove Him into the wilderness. 
And He was there in the wilderness forty days, being tempted by Satan, and was with the wild animals; and the angels were ministering to Him. 
Now after John was imprisoned, Jesus came to Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, 
and saying, “The time has been fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent, and believe in the gospel.” 
And as He was walking alongside the Sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea; for they were fishermen. 
Then Jesus said to them, “Come after Me, and I will make you become fishers of men.” 
And immediately leaving their nets they followed Him. 
And having gone forth from there a little, He saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the boat mending their nets. 
And immediately He called them. And after they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired workers, they went away after Him. 
And they were going into Capernaum. And immediately on the Sabbath, He entered the synagogue and began teaching. 
And they were astonished at His doctrine, for He was teaching them as one who had authority, and not as the scribes. 
Now there was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, 
saying, “Let us alone! What have we to do with You, Jesus of Nazareth? Have You come to destroy us? I know who You are—the Holy One of God!” 
But Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be silent, and come out of him!” 
And when the unclean spirit threw him into a convulsion, and crying out with a loud voice, he came out of him. 
Then they were all amazed, so that they were disputing among themselves, saying, “What is this? What new doctrine is this, that He commands even the unclean spirits with authority, and they obey Him?” 
And immediately the report of Him went out into the whole surrounding region of Galilee. 
And immediately when they went out from the synagogue, they came to the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John. 
And the mother-in-law of Simon was lying sick with a fever, and immediately they spoke to Him about her. 
So He came and He raised her up, grasping her hand; and immediately the fever left her. And she began to serve them. 
Now when evening came, when the sun had set, they were bringing to Him all those who were sick, and those who were demon-possessed. 
And the whole city was gathered together at the door. 
And He healed many who were sick with various diseases, and He cast out many demons; and He did not allow the demons to speak, because they knew who He was. 
And in the very early morning before dawn, He arose and He went out, and went away to a deserted place; and there He was praying. 
And Simon and those who were with Him sought Him out. 
When they found Him, they said to Him, “Everyone is looking for You.” 
But He said to them, “Let us go to the neighboring towns, that I may preach there also, because for this reason I have come forth.” 
And He was preaching in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and casting out demons. 
Then a leper came to Him, beseeching Him, kneeling before Him and saying to Him, “If You are willing, You can make me clean.” 
And Jesus, being moved with compassion, and reaching out His hand, touched him, and said to him, “I am willing, be cleansed.” 
And when He said this, immediately the leprosy left from him, and he was cleansed. 
And after sternly warning him, immediately He sent him away, 
and said to him, “See that you say nothing to anyone; but go, show yourself to the priest, and bring as an offering concerning your cleansing those things which Moses prescribed, as a testimony to them.” 
But he went out and began to proclaim it freely, and to spread widely the report, so that He was no longer able to enter into a city, but was outside in deserted places; and they were coming to Him from everywhere. 
