1 Thessalonians.
Chapter 2.
For you yourselves know, brothers, regarding our coming to you, that it was not in vain. 
But suffering before and being spitefully treated at Philippi, just as you know, we were bold in our God to speak to you the gospel of God with much conflict. 
For our exhortation was not from error nor from uncleanness, nor in deceit. 
But just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, even so we speak, not as pleasing men, but God who is testing our hearts. 
For neither were we using flattering speech, as you know, nor covering up greed, God is our witness. 
Nor seeking glory from men, neither from you, nor from others, even though we were able to carry weight as apostles of Christ. 
But we proved to be gentle in your midst, as a nursing mother cherishes her own children. 
In this way longing for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own souls, because you had become dear to us. 
For you remember, brothers, our labor and toil; for laboring night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, we proclaimed to you the gospel of God. 
You are witnesses, and so is God, how devoutly and justly and blamelessly we were among you that believe; 
as indeed you know how each one of you, as a father to his own children, we exhorted, and comforted you, and imploring you, 
that you would walk worthy of God who calls you into His own kingdom and glory. 
Because of this we also give thanks to God unceasingly, so that when you received the word of God which you heard from us, you received not the word of men, but just as it truly is, the word of God, which also is at work in you that believe. 
For you, brothers, became imitators of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus, because you suffered the same things from your fellow countrymen, just as they did from the Jews, 
who killed both the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and have persecuted us; and they do not please God and are hostile to all men, 
forbidding us from speaking to the Gentiles so that they may be saved, so as always to fill up the measure of their sins; but the wrath of God has come upon them to the uttermost. 
But we, brothers, being unwillingly separated from you for a short season, in presence, not in heart, were all the more eager to see your face with much desire. 
Therefore we desired to come to you—I, Paul, time and again, but Satan hindered us. 
For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of boasting? Is it not even you, in the presence of our Lord Jesus at His coming? 
For you are our glory and joy. 
