Matthew.
Chapter 8.
When He had come down from the mountain, great crowds followed Him. 
And behold, a leper came and worshiped Him, saying, “Lord, if You are willing, You can make me clean.” 
And reaching out His hand, Jesus touched him, saying, “I am willing; be cleansed.” Immediately his leprosy was cleansed. 
And Jesus said to him, “See that you tell no one; but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift which Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.” 
Now when He had entered Capernaum, a centurion approached Him, begging Him, 
and saying, “Lord, my servant has been laid up in the house a paralytic, being tormented terribly.” 
And Jesus said to him, “I will come and heal him.” 
The centurion answered and said, “Lord, I am not worthy that You should come under my roof. But just say the word and my servant will be healed. 
For I also am a man under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.” 
When Jesus heard it, He marveled, and said to those who were following, “Assuredly, I say to you, I have not found such great faith, not even in Israel! 
And I say to you that many shall come from east and west, and recline to eat with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven; 
but the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” 
Then Jesus said to the centurion, “Go; and as you believed, may it be unto you.” And his servant was healed that very hour. 
Now when Jesus had come into Peter's house, He saw his wife's mother having been laid up, and burning with fever. 
And He touched her hand, and the fever left her; and she got up, and began to serve Him. 
When evening had come, they brought to Him many who were demon-possessed. And He cast out the spirits with a word, and He healed all that were sick, 
so that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying: “He Himself took our infirmities, and bore our diseases.” 
And when Jesus saw great crowds around Him, He gave orders to depart to the other side. 
Then a certain scribe approached, and said to Him, “Teacher, I will follow You wherever You go.” 
And Jesus said to him, “Foxes have dens, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay His head.” 
Then another of His disciples said to Him, “Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.” 
But Jesus said to him, “Follow Me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead.” 
Now when He got into a boat, His disciples followed Him. 
And behold, a great tempest arose on the sea, so that the boat was covered by waves; but He was sleeping. 
Then the disciples came and awoke Him, saying, “Lord, save us! We are perishing!” 
But He said to them, “Why are you fearful, O you of little faith?” Then having risen, He rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. 
So the men marveled, saying, “What kind of Man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey Him?” 
And when He came to the other side, to the region of the Gergesenes, there met Him two demon-possessed men, coming out of the tombs; exceedingly violent, so that no one was able to pass by that way. 
And suddenly they cried out, saying, “What have we to do with You, Jesus, Son of God? Have You come here to torment us before the time?” 
Now there was far off from them a herd of many swine feeding. 
So the demons implored Him, saying, “If You cast us out, permit us to go off into the herd of swine.” 
And He said to them, “Go.” So they came out, and went off into the herd of swine. And behold, the whole herd of swine rushed violently down the steep bank into the sea, and died in the waters. 
Then those who tended them fled; and going off into the city, they reported everything, including what had happened to the demon-possessed men. 
And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus. And seeing Him, they implored Him that He might go away from their region. 
