ISAIAH.
Chapter 34.
Nigh, ye heathen men, to hear; ye peoples, perceive; the earth, and the fullness thereof, the world, and all burgeoning thereof, hear ye. 
For why the indignation of the Lord is on all folks, and strong vengeance on all the chivalry of them; he killed them, and gave them into slaying. 
The slain men of them shall be cast forth, and stink shall ascend or go up of the carrions of them; hills or the mountains shall flow of the blood of them. 
And all the chivalry of heavens shall fail, and heavens shall be folded together as a book, and all the knighthood of those shall float down, as the leaf of a vinery or a vine and of a fig tree falleth down. 
For my sword is filled in heaven; lo! it shall come down on Idumea, and on the people of my slaying, to doom. 
The sword of the Lord is filled of blood, it is made fat of the inner fatness of the blood of lambs and of bucks of goats, of the blood of rams full of marrow; for why the slain sacrifice of the Lord is in Bozrah, and great slaying is in the land of Edom. 
And unicorns shall go down with them, and bulls with them that be mighty; the land of them shall be filled with blood, and the earth of them with the inner fatness of fat beasts; 
for it is a day of vengeance of the Lord, a year of yielding of the doom of Zion. 
And the strands or streams thereof shall be turned into pitch, and the earth thereof into brimstone; and the land thereof shall be into burning pitch, night and day. 
It shall not be quenched without end, the smoke thereof shall go up from generation into generation, and it shall be desolate into worlds of worlds; none shall pass thereby. 
And an onocrotalus, and an urchin, shall wield it; and a capret, and a crow shall dwell therein; and a measure shall be stretched forth thereon, that it be driven to nought, and an hanging plummet into desolation. 
The noble men thereof shall not be there; rather they shall call the king into help, and all the princes thereof shall be into nought. 
And thorns and nettles shall grow in the houses thereof, and a teasel in the strongholds thereof; and it shall be the couch of dragons, and the pasture of ostriches. 
And fiends, and wonderful beasts, like men in the higher part, and like asses in the nether part, and an hairy, shall meet; one shall cry to another. Lamia shall lie there, and find rest there to herself; 
there an urchin had ditches, and nourished out whelps, and digged about, and fostered in the shadow thereof; there kites were gathered together, one to another. 
Seek ye diligently in the book of the Lord, and read ye; one of those things failed not, one sought not another; for he commanded that thing, that goeth forth of my mouth, and his spirit, he gathered them together. 
And he sent to them heritage, and his hand parted it in measure; till into without end they shall wield that land, in generation and into generation they shall dwell therein. 
