PROVERBS.
Chapter 10.
The parables of Solomon. A wise son maketh glad his father; but a fond or foolish son is the sorrow of his mother. 
Treasures of wickedness shall not profit; but rightfulness or rightwiseness shall deliver from death. 
The Lord shall not torment the soul of a just or rightwise man with hunger; and he shall destroy the treasons of unpious men. 
A slow hand hath wrought needi-ness; but the hand of strong men maketh ready riches. Forsooth he that enforceth or endeavoureth to get any-thing by leasings, feedeth the winds; soothly the same man pursueth birds flying or followeth flying birds. 
He that gathereth together in harvest, is a wise son; but he that sleepeth in summer, is a son of confusion. 
The blessing of God is over the head of a just or rightwise man; but wickedness covereth the mouth of wicked men. 
The mind or memory of a just or rightwise man shall be with praisings; and the name of wicked men shall wax rotten. 
A wise man shall receive commandments with heart; a fool is beaten with his own lips. 
He that goeth simply, goeth trustily; but he that maketh shrewd his ways, shall be made open. 
He that beckoneth with the eye, shall give sorrow; a fool shall be beaten with his own lips. 
The vein of life is the mouth of a just or rightwise man; but the mouth of wicked men covereth wickedness. 
Hatred raiseth up chidings; and charity covereth all sins. 
Wisdom is found in the lips of a wise man; and a rod in the back of him that is needy of heart. 
Wise men hide knowing; but the mouth of a fool is next to confusion. 
The chattel or substance of a rich man is the city of his strength; the dread of poor men is the neediness of them. 
The work of a just or rightwise man is to life; but the fruit of a wicked man is to sin. 
The way of life is to him that keepeth chastising or discipline; but he that forsaketh blamings, erreth. 
False lips hide hatred; he that bringeth forth despising is unwise. 
Sin shall not fail in much speaking; but he that measureth his lips, is most prudent. 
Chosen silver is the tongue of a just or rightwise man; the heart of wicked men is for nought. 
The lips of a just or rightwise man teach full many men; but they that be unlearned shall die in neediness of heart. 
The blessing of the Lord maketh rich men; and torment shall not be fellowshipped to them. 
A fool worketh wickedness as by laughing; but wisdom is prudence to a man or but prudence is to a wise man. 
That that a wicked man dreadeth, shall come up on him; the desire of just or rightwise men shall be given to them. 
As a tempest passing, a wicked man shall not be; but a just or rightwise man shall be as an ever-lasting foundament. 
As vinegar annoyeth the teeth, and smoke the eyes; so a slow man annoyeth them that sent him in the way. 
The dread of the Lord increaseth days; and the years of wicked men shall be made short. 
Abiding of just or rightwise men is gladness; but the hope of wicked men shall perish. 
The strength of a simple man is the way of the Lord; and dread to them that work evil. 
A just or rightwise man shall not be moved without end; but wicked men shall not dwell on the earth. 
The mouth of a just or rightwise man shall bring forth wisdom; the tongue of shrews shall perish. 
The lips of a just or rightwise man behold pleasant things; and the mouth of wicked men beholdeth wayward or perverted things. 
