1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 3.
Forsooth David had these sons, that were born to him in Hebron; the first begotten son of him was Amnon, of Ahinoam of Jezreel; the second son, Daniel, of Abigail of Carmel; 
the third, Absalom, the son of Maachah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah, the son of Haggith; 
the fifth, Shephatiah, of Abital; the sixth, Ithream, of Eglah his wife. 
Therefore six sons were born to him in Hebron; where he reigned seven years and six months; and he reigned three and thirty years in Jerusalem. 
Forsooth four sons, that is, Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, were born of Bathsheba, the daughter of Ammiel, to him in Jerusalem; 
also Ibhar, and Elishama, and Eliphelet, 
and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia, 
also Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine. 
All these were the sons of David, without the sons of his secondary wives; and they had a sister, Tamar. 
Soothly the son of Solomon was Rehoboam, whose son Abia begat Asa; and Jehoshaphat, the father of Jehoram, was born of this Asa; 
the which Jehoram begat Ahaziah, of whom Joash was born, or begotten. 
And Amaziah, the son of this Joash, begat Azariah; and Azariah begat Jotham, 
and Jotham begat Ahaz2, the father of Hezekiah, of whom Manasseh was born. 
But also Manasseh begat Amon, the father of Josiah. 
And the sons of Josiah were these, the first begotten son was Johanan; the second, Jehoiakim; the third, Zedekiah; and the fourth, Shallum. 
Of Jehoiakim was born Jeconiah, and Zedekiah. 
The sons of Jeconiah were Assir, Salathiel, 
Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazar, and Jecamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah. 
Of Pedaiah were born Zerubbabel, and Shimei. Zerubbabel begat Mesh-ullam, Hananiah, and Shelomith, the sister of them; 
and Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, and Jushab-hesed, five. 
And the son of Hananiah was Pelatiah, the father of Jesaiah, whose son was Rephaiah. And the son of him was Arnan, of whom was born Obadiah, whose son was Shechaniah. 
The son of Shechaniah was She-maiah, whose sons were Hattush, and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat; six in number. 
The sons of Neariah were three, Elioenai, and Hezekiah, and Azrikam. 
The sons of Elioenai were seven, Hodaiah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Dalaiah, and Anani. 
