ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 7.
Do not thou do evils, and those or they shall not take or catch thee. 
Depart thou from wickedness, and evils shall fail from thee. Go away from the wicked, and there shall fail evils from thee. 
Sow thou not evils in the furrows of unrightfulness or unrightwiseness, and thou shalt not reap those or them in sevenfold. 
Do not thou seek of a man leading or the dignity of a leader, neither of a king the chair of honour. 
Justify thou not thee before God, for he is the knower of the heart; and do not thou desire to be seen wise with the king. 
Do not thou seek to be made a judge or a doomsman, no but thou mayest break wickednesses by thy virtue; lest thou dread the face of a mighty man, and set cause of stumbling in thy swiftness or thine hither and thither deliberateness. 
Do not thou sin in the multitude of a city, neither send thee into the people; 
neither bind thou to double sins, for thou shalt not be guiltless in one. 
Do not thou be a coward in thy soul, to pray; and despise thou not to do alms-deeds. 
Say thou not, God shall behold in the multitude of my gifts; and when I shall offer to God alder-highest or to the highest God, he shall take my gifts. 
Scorn thou not a man in the bitterness of soul; for why God is the beholder, that maketh meek, and enhanceth. 
Do not thou love a leasing against thy brother; neither do thou in like manner against a friend. 
Do not thou desire to lie any leasing; for why the continuance thereof or the busyness forsooth of them is not good. 
Do not thou be a jangler or full of words in the multitude of priests; and rehearse thou not a word in thy prayer. 
Hate thou not travailous works, and earth-tilthing or churlish doing made of the Highest. 
Areckon thou not thee in the multitude of unlearned men or men without discipline. Have thou mind on ire or wrath, for it shall not tarry. 
Make thou meek greatly thy spirit or Meek greatly thy spirit, for why the vengeance of the flesh of an unpious man is fire, and worms. 
Do not thou trespass against thy friend delaying money; neither despise thou a full dearworthy brother for gold. 
Do not thou depart or go away from a wise woman, and good, whom thou hast gotten in the dread of the Lord; for why the grace of her shamefastness is above gold. 
Hurt thou not a servant working in truth, neither an hired man giving his life. 
A witting servant be dearworthy to thee as thy own soul; defraud thou not him of freedom, neither forsake thou him when needy or helpless. 
Beasts be to thee? take thou heed to those or them; and if those be profitable, dwell those still at thee, or if they be profitable, abide they still with thee. 
Sons be to thee? teach thou them, and bow thou them under chastising from their childhood. 
Daughters be to thee? keep thou the body of them, and show thou not glad face to them or show thou not thy face glad to them. 
Give thy daughter to marriage, and thou doest a great work; and give thou her to a wise man. 
If a woman is to thee after thy soul, cast her not away; and betake thou not thee in all thine heart to an hateful woman. 
Honour thy father; and forget thou not the wailings of thy mother. 
Have thou mind that thou haddest not been, but by them, and yield thou to them as they did to thee. 
In all thy soul dread thou God, and hallow thou his priests. 
In all thy virtue or strength love thou him that made thee; and forsake thou not his ministers or servants. 
Honour thou God of all thy soul; and honour thou priests, and cleanse thee with thine arms, that is, by offerings gotten with thy travail. Give thou to them the part of the first fruits, and of purging, as also it is commanded to thee; and of thy negligence purge thou thee with few men. Thou shalt offer to the Lord the gift of thine arms, and the sacrifice of hallowing, the beginnings, that is, the first fruits and dimes, or tithes, of holy men or the beginnings of holy things. 
And dress thine hand to a poor man or to the poor, that thy mercy and blessing be performed. 
Grace is given in the sight of each that liveth; and forbid thou not grace to a dead man. 
Fail thou not in to do comfort to them that weep; and go thou with them that mourn. 
Be thou not slow to visit a sick man or the sick; for by these things thou shalt be made steadfast in love. 
In all thy works have thou mind on or have in mind thy last things; and thou shalt not do sin without end. 
