1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 11.
Therefore all Israel was gathered to David in Hebron, and said, We be thy bone and thy flesh; 
also yesterday and the third day ago, when Saul reigned yet upon Israel, thou it was that leddest out and leddest in Israel; for the Lord thy God said to thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be prince upon it. 
Therefore all the greater men in birth of Israel came to the king in Hebron; and David made with them a bond of peace before the Lord, and they anointed him king upon Israel, by the word of the Lord, which he spake in the hand of Samuel. 
Therefore David went, and all Israel, into Jerusalem; this Jerusalem is Jebus, where Jebusites, inhabiters of the land, were. 
And they that dwelled at Jebus said to David, Thou shalt not enter hither. Forsooth David took the high tower of Zion, which is the city of David; 
and he said, Each man that slayeth the first Jebusite, shall be prince and duke. Therefore Joab, the son of Zeruiah, went up first, and was made prince. 
And David dwelled in the high tower, and therefore it was called the city of David; 
and he builded the city in compass, from Millo till to the compass about; and Joab builded the tother part of the city. 
And David profited going and waxing, and the Lord of hosts was with him. 
These be the princes of the strong men of David, that helped him, that he should be king upon all Israel, by the word of the Lord which he spake to Israel. 
And this is the number of the strong men of David; Jashobeam, the son of Hachmoni, was prince among thirty; this raised up his shaft, either spear, upon three hundred, and wounded these men in one time. 
And after him was Eleazar, the son of his father’s brother, that was of Ahohites, the which Eleazar was among the three mighty men. 
This was with David in Pasdam-mim, when Philistines were gathered to one place into battle; and a field of that country was full of barley, and the people fled from the face of Philistines. 
This Eleazar stood in the midst of the field, and defended it; and when he had slain the Philistines, the Lord gave great health to his people. 
Soothly three of the thirty princes went down to the stone, wherein David was, to the den of Adullam, when the Philistines setted tents in the valley of Rephaim. 
And David was in a stronghold, and the station, that is, the host gather-ed, of Philistines was in Bethlehem. 
Therefore David desired water, and said, I would, that some man gave to me water of the cistern of Bethlehem, which is in the gate. 
Therefore these three went through the middle of the castles or tents, or of the hosts, of the Philistines, and drew water of the cistern of Bethle-hem, that was in the gate, and they brought to David, that he should drink; and David would not drink it, but rather he offered it to the Lord, 
and said, Far be it, that I do this thing in the sight of my God, and that I drink the blood of these men, for in the peril of their lives they brought water to me; and for this cause he would not drink. The Three strongest men did these things. 
Also Abishai, the brother of Joab, he was the prince of the second three men, and he raised up his spear against three hundred, and wounded those men; and he was most named among these three, 
and among the second three, he was noble, and the prince of them; nevertheless he came not to the first three. 
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, the strongest man of Kabzeel, that did many works; he killed two strong men of Moab; and he went down, and killed a lion in the midst of a cistern, in the time of snow; 
and he killed a man of Egypt, whose stature was of five cubits, and he had a spear as the beam of webs or weaver’s; therefore Benaiah went down to him with a rod, and ravished the spear, which he held in his hand, and killed him with his own spear. 
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, did these things, he that was most named among the second three strong men, 
and he was the first among the thirty; nevertheless he came not to the first three; and David set him at his ear for a good counsellor. 
Forsooth the strongest men in the host were Asahel, the brother of Joab, and Elhanan, the son of his father’s brother of Bethlehem, 
Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite, 
Ira, the son of Ikkesh of Tekoa, Abiezer of Anathoth, 
Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite, 
Maharai the Netophathite, Heled, the son of Baanah the Netophathite, 
Ithai, the son of Ribai of Gibeah, of the sons of Benjamin; Benaiah the Pirathonite, 
men of the strand or stream of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite, 
Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite, 
the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan, the son of Shage the Hararite, 
Ahiam, the son of Sacar the Harar-ite, Eliphal, the son of Ur, 
Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite, 
Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai, the son of Ezbai, 
Joel, the brother of Nathan, Mibhar, the son of Haggeri, 
Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the squire of Joab, son of Zeruiah, 
Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 
Uriah the Hittite, Zabad, the son of Ahlai, 
Adina, the son of Shiza the Reuben-ite, prince of Reubenites, and thirty men with him; 
Hanan, the son of Maachah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite, 
Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel, the sons of Hothan the Aroerite, 
Jediael, the son of Shimri, and Joha, his brother, Tizite, 
Eliel the Mahavite, Jeribai, and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, Ithmah the Moabite, 
Eliel, and Obed, and Jasiel of Mesobaites. 
