JOSHUA.
Chapter 23.
And when much time was passed after that the Lord had given peace to Israel, and when all nations about were subjected; and when Joshua was now of long life, and of full eld or old age, 
Joshua called all Israel, and the greater men in birth, and the princes, and dukes, and masters, and he said to them, I have elded, and I am of full great age; 
and ye behold all things which your Lord God hath done to all nations about, how he hath fought for you. 
And now for he hath parted to you by lot all the land, from the east part of Jordan unto the great sea, and many nations be left yet, 
your Lord God shall destroy them, and he shall take them away from your face; and ye shall wield their land, as he promised to you. 
Only be ye comforted, and be ye busy, that ye keep all things that be written in the book of Moses’ law, and bow ye not away from those things, neither to the right side, neither to the left side, 
lest after that ye have entered to the heathen men, that shall be among you, ye swear in the name of their gods, and serve those gods, and worship them. 
But cleave ye to your Lord God, the which thing ye have done unto this day; 
and then the Lord God shall do away in your sight great folks, and strongest; and none shall be able to against-stand you. 
One of you shall pursue a thousand men of enemies, for your Lord God shall fight for you, as he hath promised. 
Be ye ware before most diligently of this thing only, that ye love your Lord God. 
That if ye will cleave to the errors of these folks that dwell among you, and will meddle or mingle marriages with them, and couple friendships, 
know ye right now, that the Lord your God shall not do away them before your face, but they shall be to you into a ditch, and into a snare, and into hurting of your side, and into stakes in your eyes, till your Lord God take away you, and destroy you from this best land, which he gave to you. 
Lo! I enter today into the way of all earth, for soon I shall die, as each man shall; and ye shall know with all soul, that of all the words which the Lord promised himself to give to you, not one passed by in vain. 
Therefore as he ful filled in work that, that he promised, and all things befelled by prosperity, so he shall bring on you whatever thing of evils he menaced or threatened, till he take away you, and destroy you from this best land, which he gave to you. 
For ye brake the covenant of your Lord God, which he made with you, and served alien gods, and worship-ped them, soon and swiftly the strong vengeance of the Lord shall rise onto you; and ye shall be taken away from this best land, which he gave to you. 
