PROVERBS.
Chapter 7.
My son, keep thou my words; and keep my behests to thee. 
Keep thou my behests, and thou shalt live; and my law, as the apple of thine eye. 
Bind thou it in thy fingers; write thou it in the tables of thine heart. 
Say thou to wisdom, Thou art my sister; and call thou prudence thy love. 
That it keep thee from a strange woman; and from an alien woman, that maketh her words sweet. 
For she saith, For why from the window of mine house, by the lattice, I beheld; 
and I see little children, that is, fools that have little wit. I behold a young man coward or the sorry-hearted young man, 
that passeth by or through the streets, beside the corner; and he goeth nigh the way of her house, 
in dark time, when the day draweth to night, in the darkness and mist in the night. 
And lo! a woman, made ready with ornament of an whore to deceive souls, meeteth him, 
and she is a jangler, and going about, and unpatient of rest, and may not stand in the house with her feet; 
and now withoutforth, now in the streets, now beside the corners, she ambusheth. 
And she taketh, and kisseth the young man; and flattereth with wooing cheer, that is, unrestfully, and without shame, and saith, 
I owed sacrifices for health; today I have yielded my vows. 
Therefore I went out into thy meeting, and I desired to see thee; and I have found thee. 
I have made my bed with cords, I have arrayed it with tapets painted or with painted tapets of Egypt; 
I have besprinkled my bed with myrrh, and aloes, and canel. 
Come thou, be we filled with touching of teats, and use we embracings that be coveted; till the day begin to be clear. 
For mine husband is not in his house; he is gone a full long way. 
He took with him a bag of money; he shall turn again into his house in the day of the full moon. 
She bound him with many words; and she drew forth him with flatterings of lips. 
Anon he as an ox led to slain sacrifice pursueth or followeth her, and as a jolly lamb and unknowing; and the fool knoweth not, that he is drawn to bonds, 
till an arrow pierce his maw. As if a bird hasteth to the snare; and knoweth not, that it is done of the peril of his life. 
Now therefore, my son, hear thou me; and perceive the words of my mouth. 
Lest thy soul be drawn away in the ways of her; neither be thou deceived in the paths of her. 
For she hath cast down many wounded men; and all the strongest men were slain of her. 
The ways of hell is her house; and pierce into the inner things of death. 
