AMOS.
Chapter 6.
Woe to you, that be full of riches in Zion, and trust in the hill of Samaria, ye principal men, the heads of peoples, that go proudly to the house of Israel. 
Go ye into Calneh, and see ye, and go ye from thence into Hamath the great; and go ye down into Gath of Palestines, and to all the best realms of them, if their term be broader than your term. 
And ye be parted into the evil day, and nigh to the seat of wickedness; 
and ye sleep in beds of ivory, and do lechery in your beds; and ye eat a lamb of the flock, and calves of the middle of the drove; 
and ye sing at the voice of psaltery. As David they guessed them, for to have made instruments of song, 
and drink wine in vials; and with best ointment they were anointed; and in nothing they had compassion on the sorrow, either defouling, of Joseph. 
Wherefore now they shall pass in the head of men passing over, and the doing, or treason, of men doing lechery or waxing jolly, shall be done away. 
The Lord God swore in his soul, saith the Lord God of hosts, I loathe the pride of Jacob, and I hate the houses of him, and I shall betake the city with his dwellers; 
that if ten men be left in one house, and they shall die. 
And his neighbour shall take him, and shall burn him, that he bear out bones of the house. And he shall say to him, that is in the privy place of the house, Whether there is yet any with thee? And he shall answer, An end is. And he shall say to him, Be thou still, and think thou not on the name of the Lord. 
For lo! the Lord shall command, and shall smite the greater house with fallings, and the lesser house with carvings, either breakings. 
Whether horses may run in stones, either it may be eared with wild oxen? For ye turned doom into bitterness, and the fruit of rightwiseness into wormwood. 
And ye be glad in nought, and ye say, Whether not in our strength we took to us horns? 
Lo! I shall raise on you, the house of Israel, saith the Lord God of hosts, a folk; and it shall all-break you from the entry of Hamath unto the stream of desert. 
