ISAIAH.
Chapter 30.
Woe! sons forsakers, saith the Lord, that ye shall make a counsel, and not of me; and weave a web, and not by my spirit, that ye should increase sin on sin. 
Which go, to go down into Egypt, and ye asked not my mouth; ye hoping help in the strength of Pharaoh, and ye having trust in the shadow of Egypt. 
And the strength of Pharaoh shall be to you into confusion, and the trust of the shadow of Egypt into shame. 
For why thy princes were in Tanis, and thy messengers came till to Hanes. 
All they were shamed on the people, that might not profit to them; they were not into help, and into any profit, but into shame and shame. 
The burden of the work beasts of the south. In the land of tribulation and of anguish, a lioness, and a lion, of them a serpent, and a flying cockatrice; they were bearing their riches on the shoulders of work beasts, and their treasures on the botch of camels, to a people that might not profit to them. 
For why Egypt shall help in vain, and idly. Therefore I cried on this thing, It is pride only; cease thou. 
Now therefore enter thou, and write to it on a box table, and write thou it diligently in a book; and it shall be in the last day into witnessing, till into without end. 
For it is a people stirring me to wrathfulness or wrath, and sons liars, sons that will not hear the law of God. 
Which say to prophets, Do not ye prophesy; and to beholders, Do not ye behold to us those things that be rightful or right; speak ye things pleasing to us, see ye errors to us. 
Do ye away from me the way, bow ye away from me the path; the Holy of Israel cease from our face. 
Therefore the Holy of Israel saith these things, For that that ye reproved this word, and hoped on false challenge, and on noise, and trusted on it, 
therefore this wickedness shall be to you as a breaking falling down, and sought in an high wall; for suddenly while it is not hoped, the breaking thereof shall come. 
And it shall be made less, as a vessel of a potter is broken with full strong breaking; and a shard shall not be found of the gobbets, either remnants, thereof, in which shard a little fire shall be borne of burning, either a little of water shall be drawn of the ditch. 
For why the Lord God, the Holy of Israel, saith these things, If ye turn again, and rest, ye shall be safe; in stillness and in hope shall be your strength. And ye would not. 
And ye said, Nay, but we shall flee to horses; therefore ye shall flee. And we shall ascend or go up on swift horses; therefore they shall be swifter, that shall pursue you. 
A thousand men shall flee from the face of the dread of one; and ye shall flee from the face of the dread of five, till ye be left as the mast of a ship in the top of a mountain, and as a sign on a little hill. 
Therefore the Lord abideth, that he have mercy on you, and therefore he shall be enhanced sparing you; for why God is Lord of doom, blessed be all they that abide him. 
Forsooth the people of Zion shall dwell in Jerusalem; thou weeping shalt not weep, he doing mercy shall have mercy on thee; at the voice of thy cry, anon as he heareth, he shall answer to thee. 
And the Lord shall give to thee strait bread, and short water, and shall no more make thy teacher to flee away from thee; and thine eyes shall be seeing thy commander, 
and thine ears shall hear a word behind the back of him that admonisheth; This is the way, go ye therein, neither to the right half, neither to the left half. 
And thou shalt defoul the plates of the graven images of thy silver, and the cloth of the molten image of thy gold; and thou shalt scatter them, as the uncleanness of a woman in unclean blood; Go thou out, and thou shalt say to it. 
And rain shall be given to thy seed, wherever thou shalt sow in the earth, and the bread of the fruits of the earth shall be most plenteous and fat; in that day a lamb shall be fed largely in thy possession. 
And thy bulls and colts of asses, that work the land, shall eat barley with chaff meddled or mingled together, as it is winnowed in the cornfloor. 
And strands or rivers of running waters shall be on each high mountain, and on each little hill raised, in the day of slaying of many men, when towers fall down. 
And the light of the moon shall be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun shall be sevenfold, as the light of seven days, in the day in which the Lord shall bind together the wound of his people, and shall make whole the smiting of the wounds thereof. 
Lo! the name of the Lord cometh down from a far; his strong vengeance is burning, and grievous to bear; his lips be filled of indignation, and his tongue is as fire devouring. 
His spirit is as a stiff stream, flowing till to the midst of the neck, to lose folks into nought, and the bridle of error, that was in the cheeks of peoples. 
Song shall be to you, as the voice of an hallowed solemnity; and gladness of heart, as he that goeth with a pipe, for to enter into the hill of the Lord, to the Strong of Israel. 
And the Lord shall make heard the glory of his voice, and he shall show the fearedfulness of his arm in menacing or threatening of strong vengeance, and in flame of fire burning; he shall hurtle down in whirlwind, and in the stone of hail. 
For why Assur smitten with a rod shall dread of the voice of the Lord; 
and the passing of the rod shall be founded, which rod the Lord shall make for to rest on him. In tympans, and harps, and in sovereign battles he shall overcome them. 
For why Tophet, that is, hell, deep and alarged, is made ready of the king from yesterday; the nourishings thereof be fire and many trees; the blast of the Lord, as a stream of brimstone, kindleth it. 
