EXODUS.
Chapter 27.
Also thou shalt make an altar of the wood of shittim, which shall have five cubits in length, and so many in breadth, that is, square, and three cubits in height. 
Forsooth horns shall be by the four corners thereof; and thou shalt cover it with brass. 
And thou shalt make into the uses of the altar, pans to receive the ashes, and tongs, and fleshhooks, and firepans; thou shalt make all these vessels of brass. 
And thou shalt make a brazen griddle in the manner of a net, and by the four corners thereof shall be four brazen rings, 
which griddle thou shalt put under the firepan of the altar; and the griddle shall be till to the midst of the altar. 
And thou shalt make the two bars of the altar, of the wood of shittim, the which bars thou shalt cover with plates of brass; 
and thou shalt lead in the bars by the rings, and they shall be on ever either side of the altar, to bear. 
Thou shalt make that altar not massive or solid, but void, and hollow within, as it was showed to thee in the hill. 
Also thou shalt make a large porch of the tabernacle, in the manner of a churchyard, in whose midday coast against the south shall be curtains of bis folded again; one side shall hold an hundred cubits in length, 
and twenty pillars, with so many brazen bases, which pillars shall have silver hooks, and the holdings of those. 
In like manner in the north side, by the length, shall be curtains of an hundred cubits, twenty pillars, and brazen bases of the same number; and the hooks of the pillars, and the holdings of those, shall be of silver. 
Forsooth in the breadth of the large porch, that beholdeth to the west, shall be curtains by fifty cubits, and ten pillars shall be, and as many bases. 
In that breadth of the large porch, that beholdeth to the east, shall be fifty cubits, 
in which the curtains of fifteen cubits shall be assigned to one side, and three pillars, and so many bases; 
and in the other side shall be curtains holding fifteen cubits, and three pillars, and so many bases. 
Forsooth in the large entry of the porch shall be made a curtain of twenty cubits, of jacinth, and purple, and of red silk twice-dyed, and of bis folded again, by embroidery work; it shall have four pillars, with so many bases. 
All the pillars of the great porch by compass shall be clothed with plates of silver, with hooks of silver, and with bases of brass. 
The great porch shall occupy an hundred cubits in length, fifty in breadth; the height of the curtains shall be of five cubits; and it shall be made of bis folded again; and it shall have brazen bases. 
Thou shalt make of brass all the vessels of the tabernacle, into all uses and ceremonies, as well the stakes thereof, as of the great entry. 
Command thou also to the sons of Israel, that they bring to thee the cleanest oil of olive trees, and pounded with a pestle, that a lantern burn evermore 
in the tabernacle of witnessing without the veil, which is hanged in the tabernacle of witnessing; and Aaron and his sons shall set it, that it shine before the Lord from eventide till the morrowtide; it shall be everlasting worshipping by their successions, or after-comings, of the sons of Israel. 
