AMOS.
Chapter 4.
Ye fat kine, that be in the mount of Samaria, hear this word; which make false challenge to needy men, and break poor men; which say to your lords, Bring ye, and we shall drink. 
The Lord God swore in his holy place, for lo! days shall come on you; and they shall raise you in shafts, and your remnants in boiling pots. 
And ye shall go out by the openings, one against another, and ye shall be cast forth into Harmon, saith the Lord. 
Come ye to Bethel, and do ye wickedly; to Gilgal, and multiply your trespassing; and offer ye early your sacrifices, in three days your tithes. 
And sacrifice ye praising of bread made sour, and call ye for willful offerings, and tell ye about them; for ye, sons of Israel, would so, saith the Lord God. 
Wherefore and I gave to you astonishing or edging of teeth in all your cities, and neediness or need of loaves in all your places; and ye turned not again to me, saith the Lord. 
Also I forbad rain from you, when three months were yet to coming, till to ripe corn; and I rained on one city, and on another city I rained not; one part was berained, and the part dried upon which I rained not. 
And twain or two and three cities came to one city, to drink water, and those were not ful filled; and ye came not again to me, saith the Lord. 
I smote you with burning wind, and with rust, either mildew, the multitude of your orchards, and of your vineries or vineyards; and a wortworm ate your olive places, and your fig places; and ye came not again to me, saith the Lord. 
I sent into you death as in the way of Egypt, I smote with sword your young men, till to the captivity of your horses, and I made the stink of your hosts to go up into your nostrils; and ye came not again to me, saith the Lord. 
I destroyed you, as God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, and ye be made as a brand ravished out of burning; and ye turned not again to me, saith the Lord. 
Wherefore, thou Israel, I shall do these things to thee; but after that I shall do to thee these things, Israel, be made ready into against-coming of thy God. 
For lo! he formeth hills, and maketh wind, and telleth to man his speech; and he maketh a morrow mist, and goeth on high things of earth; the Lord God of hosts is the name of him. 
