EZRA.
Chapter 1.
In the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremy should be fulfilled, the Lord raised the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia; and he published a voice in all his realm, yea, by writing, he sent out his letters, and said, 
Cyrus, the king of Persia, saith these things, The Lord God of heaven hath given to me all the realms of the earth, and he hath commanded to me, that I should build to him an house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. 
Who is among you of all his people? his God be with him; and go he up into Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build he the house of the Lord God of Israel; he is God, which is in Jerusalem. 
And all other men, that dwell wherever in all places, help him; the men of their place help in silver, and gold, and chattel, and sheep, besides that that they offer willfully to the temple of God, which is in Jerusalem. 
And thenthe princes of the fathers of Judah and of Benjamin rose up, and the priests, and the deacons or Levites, and each man whose spirit God raised, for to go up to build the temple of the Lord, that was in Jerusalem. 
And all men that were in compass about helped the hands of them, with vessels of silver, and of gold, with their substance, with appurtenance of household, and with work beasts, besides, or over, these things which they offered by their free will. 
And king Cyrus brought forth the vessels of the temple of the Lord, which Nebuchadnezzar had taken from Jerusalem, and had set or put them in the temple of his god. 
And Cyrus, the king of Persia, brought forth those vessels by the hand of Mithredath, the son of Gazabar; and numbered those or them to Shesh-bazzar, the prince of Judah. 
And this is the number of the vessels; golden vials, thirty; silveren vials, a thousand; great knives, nine and twenty; 
golden basins, thirty; silveren basins, two thousand four hundred and ten; and other vessels, a thousand; 
all the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four hundred. And Sheshbazzar took all these vessels, with them that went up from the trans-migration of Babylon, into Jerusalem. 
