ISAIAH.
Chapter 21.
The burden of the forsaken sea. As whirlwinds come from the south-west, it cometh from the desert, from the horrible land. 
An hard revelation is told to me; he that is unfaithful, doeth unfaithfully; and he that is a destroyer, destroyeth. Thou Elam, go up, and thou Media, beseech or besiege; I made all the wailing thereof for to cease. 
Therefore my loins be filled with sorrow; anguish wielded me, as the anguish of a woman travailing of child; I fell down, when I heard; I was troubled, when I saw. 
Mine heart faded, darknesses astonied me; Babylon, my darling, is set or put to me into miracle. 
Set thou a board, behold thou into a looking place; rise, ye princes, eating and drinking, take ye the shield. 
For why the Lord said these things to me, Go thou, and set a looker; and tell he, whatever thing he seeth. 
And he saw the chariot of two horsemen, the rider of an ass, and the rider of a camel; and he beheld diligently with much looking, 
and he cried as a lion, I stand continually by day on the looking place of the Lord, and I stand by all nights on my keeping. 
Lo! this cometh, a man-rider of a cart of horsemen. And Isaiah cried, and said, Babylon fell down, fell down; and all the graven images of gods thereof be all-broken into the earth. 
My threshing, and the daughter of my cornfloor, I have told to you what things I heard of the Lord of hosts, of God of Israel. 
The burden of Dumah. It crieth from Seir to me, Keeper, what hour of the night? keeper, what hour of the night? 
The keeper said, The morrowtide cometh, and night; if ye seek, seek ye, and be ye converted, and come ye. 
The burden of Arabia. In the forest at eventide ye shall sleep, in the paths of Dedanim. 
Ye that dwell in the land of the south, run, and bear water to the thirsty; and run ye with loaves to him that fleeth. 
For they fled from the face of swords, from the face of the sword nighing, from the face of the bow bent, from the face of the grievous battle. 
For the Lord saith these things to me, Yet in one year, as in the year of an hired man, and all the glory of Kedar shall be taken away. 
And the remnants of the number of strong archers of the sons of Kedar shall be made less; for why the Lord God of Israel spake. 
