MATTHEW.
Chapter 27.
But when the morrowtide was come, all the princes of priests, and the elder men of the people took counsel against Jesus, that they should take him to the death. 
And they led him bound, and betook him to Pilate of Pontii, chief justice or the president. 
Then Judas that betrayed him, saw that he was condemned, he repented, and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the princes of priests, and to the elder men of the people, 
and said, I have sinned, betraying rightful or just blood. And they said, What to us? busy thee or see thou. 
And when he had cast forth the pieces of silver in the temple, he passed forth, and went, and hanged himself with a snare. 
And the princes of priests took the pieces of silver, and said, It is not leaveful to put it into the treasury, for it is the price of blood. 
And when they had taken counsel, they bought with it or with them a field of a potter, into the burying of pilgrims. 
Therefore that field is called Aceldama, that is, a field of blood, into this day. 
Then that was fulfilled, that was said by the prophet Jeremy saying, And they have taken thirty pieces of silver, the price of a man appraised, whom they appraised of the children of Israel; 
and they gave them into a field of a potter, as the Lord hath ordained to me. 
And Jesus stood before the dooms-man; and the justice or the president asked him, and said, Art thou king of Jews? Jesus saith to him, Thou sayest. 
And when he was accused of the princes of priests, and of the elder men of the people, he answered nothing. 
Then Pilate saith to him, Hearest thou not, how many things or how many witnessings, they say against thee? 
And he answered not to him any word, so that the justice or the president wondered greatly. 
But for a solemn day the justice or the president was wont to deliver to the people one bound, whom they would. 
And he had then a famous man bound or he had one famous man bound, that was said Barabbas. 
Therefore Pilate said to them, when they were gathered together, Whom will ye, that I deliver to you? whether Barabbas, or Jesus, that is said Christ? 
For he knew, that by envy they betrayed him or they betook him. 
And while he sat for doomsman or for judge, his wife sent to him, and said, Nothing to thee and to that just man; for I have suffered this day many things for him, by a vision. 
Forsooth the princes of priests, and the elder men counselled the people, that they should ask Barabbas, but they should destroy Jesus. 
But the justice or the president answered, and said to them, Whom of the twain will ye, that be delivered to you? And they said, Barabbas. 
Pilate saith to them, What then shall I do of Jesus, that is said Christ? All they say, Be he crucified. 
The justice or The president saith to them, What evil hath he done? And they cried more, and said, Be he crucified. 
And Pilate seeing that he profited nothing, but that the more noise was made, he took water, and washed his hands before the people, and said, I am guiltless or innocent of the blood of this rightful or this just man; busy you or see ye. 
And all the people answered, and said, His blood be on us, and on our children. 
Then he delivered to them Barabbas, but he be took to them Jesus scourged, to be crucified. 
Then the knights of the justice or the president took Jesus in the moot hall, and gathered to him all the company of knights. 
And they unclothed him, and did about him a red mantle; 
and they folded a crown of thorns, and put on his head, and a reed in his right hand; and they kneeled before him, and scorned him, and said, Hail, king of Jews. 
And they spat on him, and took a reed, and smote his head. 
And after that they had scorned him, they unclothed him of the mantle, and they clothed him with his clothes, and led him to crucify him or to be crucified. 
And as they went out, they found a man of Cyrene coming from the town, Simon by name; they constrained him to take his cross. 
And they came into or to a place that is called Golgotha, that is, the place of Calvary. 
And they gave to him to drink wine meddled or mingled with gall; and when he had tasted, he would not drink. 
And after that they had crucified him, they parted his clothes, and cast lots, to fulfill that is said by the prophet, saying, They parted to them my clothes, and on my cloth they cast lots. 
And they sat, and kept him; 
and set or put above his head his cause, written, This is Jesus of Nazareth, king of Jews, or This is Jesus, the king of Jews. 
Then two thieves were crucified with him, one on the right half, and one on the left half. 
And men that passed forth blas-phemed him, moving their heads, 
and saying, Vath or Fieto thee, that destroyest the temple of God, and in the third day buildest it again; save thou thyself; if thou art the Son of God, come down of the cross or come down off the cross. 
Also and the princes of priests scorning, with scribes and elder men, said, 
He made other men safe, he may not make himself safe; if he is the king of Israel, come he now down from the cross, and we believe to him; 
he trusted in God; deliver he him now, if he will; for he said, That I am God’s Son or I am the Son of God. 
And the thieves, that were crucified with him, upbraided him of the same thing. 
But from the sixth hour, dark-nesses were made on all the earth or upon all the land, till to the ninth hour. 
And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a great voice, and said, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani, that is, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? 
And some men that stood there, and hearing, said, This calleth Elijah. 
And anon one of them running, took and filled a sponge with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave to him to drink. 
But others said, Suffer thou; see we whether Elijah come to deliver him. 
Forsooth Jesus again cried with a great voice, and gave up the ghost or sent out the spirit. 
And lo! the veil of the temple was rent in two parts, from the highest to the lowest. And the earth shook or was moved, and the stones were cloven or were cleft; 
and burials were opened, and many bodies of saints that had slept, rose up. 
And they went out of their burials, and after his resurrection they came into the holy city, and appeared to many. 
And the centurion and they that were with him keeping Jesus, when they saw the earth-shaking, and those things that were done, they dreaded greatly, and said, Verily this was God’s Son. 
And there were there many women afar or Forsooth many women were there afar, that pursued Jesus from Galilee, and ministered to him. 
Among which was Mary Magdalene, and Mary, the mother of James, and of Joseph, and the mother of Zebedee’s sons. 
But when the evening was come, there came a rich man of Arimathaea, Joseph by name, and he was a disciple of Jesus. 
He went to Pilate, and asked the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be given. 
And when the body was taken, Joseph wrapped it in a clean sendal or a clean linen cloth, 
and laid it in his new burial, that he had hewn in a stone; and he wallowed a great stone to the door of the burial, and went away. 
But Mary Magdalene and another Mary were there, sitting against the sepulchre. 
And on the tother day, that is after pask even, the princes of priests and the Pharisees came together to Pilate, 
and said, Sir or Sire, we have mind, that that beguiler or deceiver said yet living, After three days I shall rise again to life. 
Therefore command thou, that the sepulchre be kept into the third day; lest his disciples come, and steal him, and say to the people, He hath risen from death; and the last error shall be worse than the former. 
Pilate said to them, Ye have the keeping; go ye, keep ye as ye can. 
And they went forth, and kept the sepulchre, marking or sealing the stone, with the keepers. 
