1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 15.
And David made to him houses in the city of David, and he builded a place to the ark of the Lord, and arrayed a tabernacle to it. 
Then David said, It is unleaveful, that the ark of God be borne about of any others, no but of the deacons or Levites, which the Lord chose to bear it, and for to minister to him into without end. 
And David gathered together all Israel into Jerusalem, that the ark of God should be brought into his place, which he had made ready to it; 
also and he gathered together the sons of Aaron, and the deacons or Levites; 
of the sons of Kohath, Uriel was prince, and his brethren two hundred and twenty; 
of the sons of Merari, Asaiah was prince, and his brethren two hundred and thirty; 
of the sons of Gershon or Gershom, the prince was Joel, and his brethren an hundred and thirty; 
of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah was prince, and his brethren two hundred; 
of the sons of Hebron, Eliel was prince, and his brethren fourscore; 
of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab was prince, and his brethren an hundred and twelve. 
And David called for Zadok and Abiathar priests, and the deacons or Levites, Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab; 
and said to them, Ye that be princes of the meines of Levi, be ye hallowed with your brethren, and bring ye the ark of the Lord God of Israel to the place, that is made ready to it; 
lest, as at the beginning, for ye were not present, the Lord smote us, so and now it be done, if we do any unleaveful thing. 
Therefore the priests and deacons or Levites were hallowed, that they should bear the ark of the Lord God of Israel. 
And the sons of Levi took the ark of God with bars upon their shoulders, as Moses commanded by the word of the Lord. 
And David said to the princes of deacons or Levites, that they should ordain of their brethren singers in organs of musics, that is, in gitterns, and harps, and cymbals; that the sound of gladness should sound on high. 
And they ordained deacons or Levites, Heman, the son of Joel, and of his brethren, Asaph, the son of Berechiah; soothly of the sons of Merari, the brethren of them, they ordained Ethan, the son of Kushaiah, 
and the brethren of them with them; in the second order Zechariah, and Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, porters; 
and the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, sounding in brazen cymbals; 
and Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah, these sang privates in gitterns; 
and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, sang in harps for the eighth, and epinicion, that is, thankings that owe to be done to God, over-comer and victor; 
and Chenaniah, the prince of deacons or Levites, and of prophecy, was sovereign to before-sing the melody, for he was full wise; 
and Berechiah, and Elkanah, were porters of the ark; 
and Shebaniah, and Jehoshaphat, and Nethaneel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, priests, sounded with trumps before the ark of the Lord; and Obededom, and Jehiah, were porters of the ark. 
Therefore David, and the greater men in birth of Israel, and the tribunes, went to bring the ark of the bond of peace of the Lord from the house of Obededom with gladness. 
And when God had helped the deacons or Levites that bare the ark of the bond of peace of the Lord, seven bulls and seven rams were offered. 
And David was clothed with a white stole, and all the deacons or Levites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah, the prince of the prophecy among the singers, were clothed in white stoles; and also David was clothed with a linen surplice. 
And all Israel led forth the ark of the bond of peace of the Lord, and sounded in joyful song, and in sound of clarions, and in trumps, and in cymbals, and in gitterns, and harps. 
And when the ark of the bond of peace of the Lord had come into the city of David, Michal, the daughter of Saul, beheld forth by a window, and saw king David dancing and playing; and she despised him in her heart. 
