MATTHEW.
Chapter 13.
In that day Jesus went out of the house, and sat beside the sea. 
And much people was gathered to him, so that he went up into a boat, and sat; and all the people stood on the brink. 
And he spake to them many things in parables, and said, Lo! he that soweth, went out to sow his seed. 
And while he soweth, some seeds felled beside the way, and birds of the air came, and ate them. 
But other seeds felled into stony places, where they had not much earth; and anon they sprung up, for they had not deepness of earth. 
But when the sun was risen, they sweltered or they burned for the heat, and for they had not root, they dried up. 
And other seeds felled among thorns; and the thorns waxed up, and strangled them. 
But other seeds felled into good land, and gave fruit; some an hundred-fold, another sixtyfold, another thirty-fold. 
He that hath ears of hearing, hear he. 
And the disciples came nigh, and said to him, Why speakest thou in parables to them? 
And he answered, and said to them, For to you it is given to know the privates or mysteries of the kingdom of heavens; but it is not given to them. 
For it shall be given to him that hath, and he shall have plenty; but if a man hath not, also that thing that he hath shall be taken away from him. 
Therefore I speak to them in parables, for they seeing see not, and they hearing hear not, neither under-stand; 
that the prophecy of Isaiah saying be fulfilled in them, With hearing ye shall hear, and ye shall not under-stand; and ye seeing shall see, and ye shall not see; 
for the heart of this people is greatly fatted, and they heard heavily with ears, and they have closed their eyes, lest sometime they see with eyes, and with ears hear, and under-stand in heart, and they be converted, and I heal them. 
But your eyes that see be blessed, and your ears that hear. 
Forsooth I say to you, that many prophets and just men coveted to see those things that ye see, and they saw not, and to hear those things that ye hear, and they heard not. 
Therefore hear ye the parable of the sower. 
Each that heareth the word of the realm, and understandeth not, the evil spirit cometh, and ravisheth that that is sown in his heart; this it is or this is he, that is sown beside the way. 
But this or he that is sown on the stony land, this it is or is this, that heareth the word of God, and anon with joy taketh it. 
And he hath not root in himself, but is temporal. For when tribulation and persecution is made for the word, anon he is caused to stumble. 
But he that is sown in thorns, is this that heareth the word, and the busyness of this world, and the fallacy or the falseness of riches strangleth the word, and it is made without fruit. 
But he that is sown into good land, is this that heareth the word, and understandeth, and bringeth forth fruit. And some maketh an hundred-fold, truly another sixtyfold and another thirtyfold. 
Another parable Jesus put forth to them, and said, The kingdom of heavens is made like to a man, that sowed good seed in his field. 
And when men slept, his enemy came, and sowed above tares, or darnels, or cockles, in the middle of wheat, and went away. 
But when the herb was grown, and made fruit, then the tares, or the darnels, or cockles, appeared. 
And the servants of the husband-man came, and said to him, Lord, whether hast thou not sown good seed in thy field? whereof then hath it tares, or darnels, or cockles? 
And he said to them, An enemy hath done this thing. And the servants said to him, Wilt thou that we go, and gather them? 
And he said, Nay, lest peradven-ture ye in gathering tares, or the darnels, or cockles, draw up with them also the wheat by the root. 
Suffer ye them both to wax into reaping time; and in the time of ripe corn, I shall say to the reapers, First gather ye together the tares, or the darnels, or cockles, and bind them together in knitches, or small bundles, to be burnt, but gather ye the wheat into my barn. 
Another parable Jesus put forth to them, and said, The kingdom of heavens is like to a corn of sinapi, which a man took, and sowed in his field. 
Which truly is the least of all seeds, but when it hath waxen, it is the most of all worts, and is made a tree; so that the birds of the air come, and dwell in the boughs or the branches thereof. 
Another parable Jesus spake to them or He spake another parable to them, The kingdom of heavens is like to sourdough, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till it were all soured. 
Jesus spake all these things in parables to the people, and he spake not to them without parables, 
that it should be fulfilled, that is said by the prophet, saying, I shall open my mouth in parables; I shall tell out hid things or things hid from the making of the world. 
Then he left the people, and came into an house; and his disciples came to him, and said, Expound to us the parable of the tares, or the darnels, or cockles, of the field. 
Which answered, and said, He that soweth good seed is man’s Son; 
the field is the world; but the good seed, these be the sons of the kingdom, but tares, these be evil children, or forsooth darnels, or cockles, these be evil sons or sons of the wicked; 
the enemy that soweth them is the fiend or the devil; and the ripe corn is the ending of the world, the reapers be angels. 
Therefore as tares, or darnels, or cockles, be gathered together, and be burnt in the fire, so it shall be in the ending of the world. 
Man’s Son shall send his angels, and they shall gather from his realm all causes of stumbling, and them that do wickedness; 
and they shall send them into the chimney of fire; there shall be weeping, and beating together of teeth. 
Then just men shall shine as the sun, in the realm of their Father. He that hath ears of hearing, hear he. 
The kingdom of heavens is like to treasure hid in a field, which a man that findeth, hideth; and for joy of it he goeth, and selleth all things that he hath, and buyeth that field. 
Again the kingdom of heavens is like to a merchant, that seeketh good margarites or good pearls; 
but when he hath found one precious margarite, he went, and sold all things that he had, and bought it. 
Again the kingdom of heavens is like to a net cast into the sea, and that gathereth together of all kinds of fishes; 
which when it was full, they drew it up, and sat by the brink, and chose the good into their vessels, but the evil they cast out. 
So it shall be in the end of the world. Angels shall go out, and shall separate evil men from the middle or the midst of just men. 
And they shall send them into the chimney of fire; there shall be weeping, and grinding of teeth. 
Have ye understood all these things? They say to him, Yea. 
He saith to them, Therefore every wise man of the law taught in the kingdom of heavens, is like to an husbandman, that bringeth forth of his treasure new things and old. 
And it was done, when Jesus had ended these parables, he passed from thence. 
And he came into his country, and taught them in their synagogues, so that they wondered, and said, From whence this wisdom and virtues came to this? or to him? 
Whether this is not the son of a carpenter? Whether his mother be not said Mary? and his brethren, James, and Joseph, and Simon, and Judas? 
and his sisters, whether they all be not among us? From whence then all these things come or came to this? or to him? 
And so they were offended in him. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honour, but in his own country, and in his own house. 
And he did not there many virtues, for the unbelief of them. 
