JOB.
Chapter 9.
And Job answered, and said, 
Verily I know, that it is so, and that a man comparisoned to God shall not be made just or justified. 
If he will strive with God, he may not answer to God one for a thousand. 
He is wise in heart, and strong in might; who hath against-stood him, and had peace? 
He bare over hills from one place to another, and they knew not; which he destroyed in his strong vengeance. 
Which stirreth the earth from his place, and the pillars thereof shall shake altogether. 
He commandeth to the sun, and it riseth not; and he closeth up the stars, as under a signet. 
He alone stretcheth forth heavens, and he goeth upon the waves of the sea. 
He maketh Arcturus, and Orion, and Pleiades, that is, the seven stars, and the inner things of the south. 
He maketh great things, and that may not be sought out, and also wonderful things, of which there is none number. 
If he cometh to me, I shall not see him; if he goeth away from me, I shall not understand. 
If he asketh suddenly, who shall answer to him? either who may say to him, Why doest thou so? 
He is God, whose wrath no man may withstand; and under whom they be bowed, that bear the world. 
How great am I, that I answer to him, and speak by my words with him? 
Which also shall not answer to him, though I have anything just or right; but I shall beseech my judge to spare me. 
And when he hath heard me inwardly calling him, I believe not, that he hath heard my voice. 
For in a whirlwind he shall all-break me, and he shall multiply my wounds, yea, without cause. 
He granteth not, that my spirit have rest, and he filleth me with bitternesses. 
If strength is sought, he is most strong; and if equity of doom is sought, no man dare yield witnessing for me. 
If I will make me just or justify me, my own mouth shall condemn me; if I shall show me innocent, he shall prove me a shrew. 
Yea, though I be simple, my soul shall not know this same thing; and it shall annoy me of my life. 
One thing is, which I spake, he shall waste by death also the innocent and the wicked man. 
If he beateth, slay he once, and laugh he not of the pains of innocent men. 
The earth is given into the hands of the wicked; he covereth the faces of judges; that if he is not, who there-fore is? 
My days were swifter than a courier; they fled away, and saw not good. 
They passed away as the ships bearing apples, as an eagle flying to meat. 
When I say, I shall not speak so; I change my face, and I am tormented with sorrow. 
I dread all my works, witting that thou sparest not the trespasser. 
And if I am also thus wicked, why have I travailed in vain? 
Though I am washed as with waters of snow, and though mine hands shine as most clean, 
nevertheless thou shalt dip me in filths, and my clothes shall hold, or show, me abominable. 
Truly I shall not answer a man, that is like me; neither that may be heard evenly with me in doom. 
There is none, that may reprove ever either, and set or put his hand in both. 
Do he away his rod from me, and his dread make not me afeared. 
I shall speak, and I shall not dread him; for I may not answer dreading. 
