1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 6.
The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel. 
The sons of Amram were Aaron, Moses, and Marie. The sons of Aaron were Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
Eleazar begat Phinehas, and Phinehas begat Abishua, 
Abishua begat Bukki, and Bukki begat Uzzi, 
Uzzi begat Zerahiah, and Zerahiah begat Meraioth. 
Forsooth Meraioth begat Amariah, Amariah begat Ahitub, 
Ahitub begat Zadok, Zadok begat Ahimaaz, 
Ahimaaz begat Azariah, Azariah begat Johanan, 
Johanan begat Azariah; he it is that was set in priesthood, in the house that Solomon builded in Jerusalem. 
Forsooth Azariah begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub, 
Ahitub begat Zadok, Zadok begat Shallum, 
Shallum begat Hilkiah, Hilkiah begat Azariah, 
Azariah begat Seraiah, Seraiah begat Jehozadak. 
Forsooth Jehozadak went out, when the Lord translated or brought over Judah and Jerusalem, by the hands of Nebuchadnezzar the king. 
Therefore the sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
And these were the names of the sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimei. 
The sons of Kohath were Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. 
The sons of Merari were Mahli, and Mushi. Soothly these were the kindreds of Levi by the meines of them; 
of Gershon; Libni, his son; Jahath, his son; Zimmah, his son; 
Joah, his son; Iddo, his son; Zerah, his son; Jeaterai, his son. 
The sons of Kohath; Amminadab, his son; Korah, his son; Assir, his son; 
Elkanah, his son; Ebiasaph, his son; Assir, his son; 
Tahath, his son; Uriel, his son; Uzziah, his son; Saul, his son. 
The sons of Elkanah were Amasai, and Ahimoth; 
and Ahimoth’s son was Elkanah. The sons of this Elkanah; Zophai, his son; Nahath, his son; 
Eliab, his son; Jeroham, his son; Elkanah, his son. 
The sons of Samuel; the first begotten Vashni or Joel, and Abiah. 
Soothly the sons of Merari; Mahli, his son; Libni, his son; Shimei, his son; Uzza, his son; 
Shimea, his son; Haggiah, his son; Asaiah, his son. 
These it be that David ordained on the singers of the house of the Lord, since the ark of the Lord was set there; 
and they ministered before the tabernacle of witnessing, and sang, till Solomon builded the house of the Lord in Jerusalem; forsooth they stood by their order in their service. 
And these it be that stood nigh with their sons. Of the sons of Kohath; Heman the chanter, the son of Joel, son of Shemuel, 
son of Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Toah, 
son of Zuph, son of Elkanah, son of Mahath, son of Amasai, 
son of Elkanah, son of Joel, son of Azariah, son of Zephaniah, 
son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah, 
son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, the son of Israel. 
And his brethren; Asaph, that stood at the right half of him, that is Asaph, the son of Berachiah, son of Shimea, 
son of Michael, son of Baaseiah, son of Malchiah, 
son of Ethni, son of Zerah, son of Adaiah, 
son of Ethan, son of Zimmah, son of Shimei, 
son of Jahath, son of Gershon, the son of Levi. 
Forsooth the sons of Merari, the brethren of them, were at the left side; Ethan, the son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of Malluch, 
son of Hashabiah, son of Amaziah, son of Hilkiah, 
son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shamer, 
son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merari, son of Levi. 
And deacons or Levites, the brethren of them, that were ordained into all the service of the tabernacle of the house of the Lord. 
Forsooth Aaron and his sons burnt incense upon the altar of brunt sacrifices, and upon the altar of incense, into all the work of the holy of holy things; and that they should pray for Israel, by all things which Moses, the servant of God, commanded. 
And these be the sons of Aaron; Eleazar, his son; Phinehas, his son; Abishua, his son; 
Bukki, his son; Uzzi, his son; Zerahiah, his son; 
Meraioth, his son; Amariah, his son; Ahitub, his son; 
Zadok, his son; Ahimaaz, his son. 
And these were the dwelling places, by the towns and coasts of them, that is, of the sons of Aaron, by the kindreds of Kohathites; for those or they befelled to them by lot. 
Therefore the children of Israel gave to them Hebron in the land of Judah, and the suburbs thereof by compass; 
and they gave the fields and towns of the cities to Caleb, the son of Jephunneh. 
And they gave cities to the sons of Aaron, Hebron to refuge, and they gave Libnah, with his suburbs, and Jattir, and Eshtemoa, with their suburbs, 
but also Hilen, and Debir, with their suburbs; 
also they gave Ashan, and Beth-shemesh, and the suburbs of those or them. 
And of the lineage of Benjamin they gave Geba, and the suburbs thereof, and Alemeth with his suburbs, Anathoth also with his suburbs; all the cities were thirteen with their suburbs, by the kindreds of them. 
And to the sons of Kohath, the residues of their kindred, they gave of the half lineage of Manasseh, ten cities into possession. 
And to the sons of Gershon by their kindreds, they gave fourteen cities in Bashan, of the lineage of Issachar, and of the lineage of Asher, and of the lineage of Naphtali, and of the lineage of Manasseh. 
And to the sons of Merari by their kindreds, they gave by lots twelve cities, of the lineage of Reuben, of the lineage of Gad, and of the lineage of Zebulun. 
And the sons of Israel gave to the deacons or Levites cities and suburbs of those or them; 
and they gave by lot, of the sons of the lineage of Judah, and of the lineage of the sons of Simeon, and of the lineage of the sons of Benjamin, these cities, which the deacons or Levites called by their names; 
and of them that were of the kindred of the sons of Kohath, and in the terms of them, were the cities of the lineage of Ephraim. 
And the sons of Israel gave to them cities of refuge, Shechem with his suburbs, in the hill of Ephraim; and Gezer with his suburbs, 
also Jokmeam with his suburbs, and Bethhoron also. 
Also of the lineage of Dan they gave Aijalon, with her suburbs, and Gathrimmon by the same manner. 
And of the half lineage of Manasseh they gave Aner, and the suburbs thereof, Bileam, and the suburbs thereof; that is, to them that were residue or were left of the kindred of the sons of Kohath. 
And to the sons of Gershon they gave of the kindred of half the lineage of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan, and the suburbs thereof, and Ashtaroth with his suburbs. 
Of the lineage of Issachar they gave Kedesh, and the suburbs thereof, and Daberath with his suburbs; 
also Ramoth, and his suburbs, and Anem with his suburbs. 
Also of the lineage of Asher they gave Mashal with his suburbs, and Abdon also, 
and Hukok, and the suburbs thereof, and Rehob with his suburbs. 
And of the lineage of Naphtali they gave Kedesh in Galilee, and the suburbs thereof, Hammon with his suburbs, and Kiriathaim, and the suburbs thereof. 
Soothly to the residue sons of Merari they gave of the lineage of Zebulun, Rimmon, and the suburbs thereof, and Tabor with his suburbs. 
Also beyond Jordan, even against Jericho, against the east of Jordan, they gave of the lineage of Reuben, Bezer in the wilderness with his suburbs, and Jahzah with his suburbs, 
also Kedemoth, and his suburbs, and Mephaath with his suburbs. 
Also of the lineage of Gad, they gave Ramoth in Gilead, and the suburbs thereof, Mahanaim with his suburbs, 
but also Heshbon with his suburbs, and Jazer with his suburbs. 
