PROVERBS.
Chapter 15.
A soft answer breaketh ire; an hard word raiseth strong vengeance. 
The tongue of wise men honoureth knowing; the mouth of fools boileth out folly. 
In each place the eyes of the Lord behold good men, and evil men. 
A pleasant tongue is the tree of life; but the tongue that is unmeasurable or untempered, shall defoul the spirit. 
A fool scorneth the teaching of his father; but he that keepeth blamings, shall be made wiser. Most virtue shall be in plenteous rightfulness or rightwiseness; but the thoughts of wicked men shall be drawn up by the root. 
The house of a just or rightwise man is full great strength; and troubling is in the fruits of a wicked man. 
The lips of wise men shall sow abroad knowing; the hearts of fools shall be unlike, that is, they shall be full of ignorance. 
The sacrifices of wicked men be abominable to the Lord; the avows of just men or the vows of rightwise menbe pleasant. 
The life of the unpious man is abomination to the Lord; he that pur-sueth rightfulness or followeth right-wiseness, shall be loved of the Lord. 
Evil teaching is of men that forsake the way of life; he that hateth blamings shall die. 
Hell and perdition be open before the Lord; how much more the hearts of the sons of men. 
A man full of pestilence loveth not him that reproveth him; and he goeth not to wise men. 
A joyful heart maketh glad the face; the spirit is cast down in the mourning of soul. 
The heart of a wise man seeketh teaching; and the mouth of fools is fed with unknowing. 
All the days of a poor man be evil; a secure soul is a continual feast. 
Better is a little with the dread of the Lord, than many treasures and unfillable. 
It is better to be called to worts with charity, than with hatred to a calf made fat. 
A wrathful man raiseth chidings; he that is patient, assuageth chidings that were raised. 
The way of slow men is as an hedge of thorns; the way of just or rightwise men is without thing of hurting. 
A wise son maketh glad his father; but a fond or foolish man despiseth his mother. 
Folly is joy to a fool; but a prudent man shall address his steps. 
Thoughts be destroyed, where no counsel is; but where many counsellors be, they be confirmed. 
A man is glad in the sentence of his mouth; and a covenable word is best. 
The path of life is on a learned man; that he bow away from the last hell. 
The Lord shall destroy the house of proud men; and he shall make steadfast the coasts of a widow. 
Evil thoughts is abomination of the Lord; and a clean word most fair shall be made steadfast of him. 
He that pursueth or followeth avarice, troubleth his house; but he that hateth gifts shall live. Sins be purged by mercy and faith; each man boweth away from evil by the dread of the Lord. 
The soul of a just or rightwise man bethinketh obedience; the mouth of wicked men is full of evils. 
The Lord is far from wicked men; and he shall hear the prayers of just or rightwise men. 
The light of eyes maketh glad the soul; good fame maketh fat the bones. 
The ear that heareth the blamings of life, shall dwell in the midst of wise men. 
He that casteth away chastising or discipline, despiseth his soul; but he that assenteth to blamings, is a peaceable holder of the heart. 
The dread of the Lord is teaching of wisdom; and meekness goeth before glory. 
