ZECHARIAH.
Chapter 6.
And I was converted, and raised mine eyes, and saw, and lo! four four-horsed carts going out of the middle of twain or two hills, and the hills were hills of brass. 
In the first four-horsed cart were red horses, and in the second four-horsed cart were black horses; 
and in the third four-horsed cart were white horses, and in the fourth four-horsed cart were diverse horses, and strong. 
And I answered, and said to the angel that spake in me, What be these things, my lord? 
And the angel answered, and said to me, These be four winds of heaven, which go out, that they stand before the lordshipper of all earth. 
In which were black horses, they went out into the land of the north; and the white went out after them; and the diverse went out into the land of the south. 
Forsooth they that were strongest went out, and sought for to go, and run about by all earth. And he said, Go ye, and walk ye through the earth. And they walked through the earth. 
And he called me, and spake to me, and said, Lo! they that go out into the land of the north, made my spirit for to rest in the land of the north. 
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and said, 
Take thou of them that be of the transmigration, either captivity, of Heldai, and of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah; and thou shalt come in that day, and shalt enter into the house of Josiah, son of Zephaniah, that came from Babylon. 
And thou shalt take gold and silver, and shalt make crowns, and put on the head of Joshua, the great priest, the son of Josedech; 
and shalt speak to him, and say, The Lord of hosts saith these things, saying, Lo! a man, Coming forth, either Born, is his name, and under him it shall spring. And he shall build a temple to the Lord, 
and he shall make a temple to the Lord; and he shall bear glory, and shall sit, and shall be lord on his seat; and the priest shall be on his seat, and counsel of peace shall be betwixt them twain or them two. 
And crowns shall be to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen, the son of Zephaniah, as a memorial in the temple of the Lord. 
And they that be far, shall come, and build in the temple of the Lord; and ye shall know, that the Lord of hosts sent me to you. Soothly this thing shall be, if by hearing ye shall hear the voice of your Lord God. 
