DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 30.
Therefore when all these come upon thee, blessing either cursing, which I have set forth in thy sight, and if thou art led by repentance of thine heart among all folks, into which thy Lord God hath scattered thee, 
and if thou turnest again to him, and obeyest to his behests, as I have commanded to thee today, with thy sons, in all thine heart, and in all thy soul, 
thy Lord God shall lead thee again from thy captivity, and shall have mercy on thee, and again he shall gather thee from all peoples, into which he hath scattered thee before. 
If thou art scattered to the ends of heaven, from thence thy Lord God shall draw thee; 
and he shall take thee, and bring thee into the land which thy fathers wielded; and thou shalt hold it, and he shall bless thee, and shall make thee to be of more number than thy fathers were. 
Thy Lord God shall circumcise thine heart, and the heart of thy seed, that thou love thy Lord God in all thine heart, and in all thy soul, and thou mayest live. 
Forsooth the Lord shall turn all these cursings on thine enemies, and on them that hate thee, and pursue thee. 
Soothly thou shalt turn again, and thou shalt hear the voice of thy Lord God, and shalt do all the behests which I command to thee today; 
and thy Lord God shall make thee to be plenteous, in all the works of thine hands, in the children of thy womb, and in the fruit of thy beasts, and in abundance of thy land, and in largeness of all things. For the Lord shall turn again, that he have joy upon thee in all goods, as he joyed in thy fathers; 
if nevertheless thou hearest the voice of thy Lord God, and keepest his behests and his ceremonies, that be written in this law, and if thou turn again to thy Lord God in all thine heart, and in all thy soul. 
This commandment which I command to thee today, is not above thee, neither it is set or put far from thee, 
neither it is set in heaven, that thou say, Who of us may ascend or go up to heaven, that he bring it to us, and we hear it, and fulfill it in work? 
neither it is set beyond the sea, that thou complain, and say, Who of us may pass over the sea, and bring it hither to us, that we may hear, and do that that is commanded to us? 
But the word is full nigh thee, in thy mouth, and in thine heart, that thou do it. 
Behold thou, that today I have set forth in thy sight life and good, and, on the contrary, death and evil; 
that thou love thy Lord God, and go in his ways, and keep his behests, and his ceremonies, and his dooms; and that thou live, and he multiply thee, and bless thee in the land to which thou shalt enter to wield. 
But if thine heart is turned away, and thou wilt not hear, and thou art deceived by error, and worshippest alien gods, and servest them, 
I before-say to thee today, that thou shalt perish, and thou shalt dwell little time in the land, to which thou shalt enter to wield, when thou shalt pass over the Jordan. 
I call today heaven and earth to witness, that is, angels and men, that I have set forth to you life and death, good and evil, blessing and cursing; therefore choose thou life, that both thou live and thy seed, 
and that thou love thy Lord God, and obey to his voice, and cleave to him, for he is thy life, and the length of thy days; that thou dwell in the land, for which the Lord swore to thy fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that he should give it to them. 
