NAHUM.
Chapter 1.
The burden of Nineveh; the book of vision of Nahum the Elkoshite. 
The Lord is a punisher, and the Lord is avenging; the Lord is avenging, and having strong vengeance; the Lord is avenging against his adversaries, and he is wrathing to his enemies. 
The Lord is patient, and great in strength, and he cleansing shall not make the wicked innocent. The Lord cometh in tempest, and the ways of him be in whirlwind, and clouds be the dust of his feet; 
he blameth the sea, and drieth it, and bringeth all floods into desert. Bashan is made sick, and Carmel, and the flowers of Lebanon languished. 
Mountains be moved together of him, and little hills be desolate. And the earth trembled together from the face of him, and the roundness of earth, and all dwelling therein. 
Who shall stand before the face of his indignation? and who shall against-stand in the wrath of his strong vengeance? His indignation is shed out as fire, and stones be dissolved, either broken, of him. 
The Lord is good, and comforting in the day of tribulation, and knowing them that hope in him. 
And in great flood passing forth, he shall make end of his place; and darknesses shall pursue his enemies. 
What think ye against the Lord? He shall make end; double tribulation shall not rise together. 
For as thorns embrace themselves together, so the feast of them drinking together shall be wasted, as stubble full of dryness. 
Of thee shall go out a man thinking malice against the Lord, and treat trespassing in soul. 
The Lord saith these things, If they shall be perfect, and so many, and thus they shall be clipped, and it shall pass by. I tormented thee, and I shall no more torment thee. 
And now I shall all-break the rod of him from off thy back, and I shall break thy bonds. 
And the Lord shall command on thee, it shall no more be sown of thy name. Of the house of thy god I shall slay; I shall set thy sepulchre a graven image, and an image welled together, either molten, for thou art unworshipped. 
Lo! on hills the feet of the evangelizing and telling peace. Judah, hallow thou thy feast days, and yield thy vows, for why Belial shall no more put to, that he pass forth in thee; all he is perished. 
