JOHN.
Chapter 2.
And the third day weddings were made in the Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there. 
And Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the weddings. 
And when wine failed, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have not wine. 
And Jesus saith to her, What to me and to thee, woman? mine hour came not yet. 
His mother saith to the ministers, Whatever thing he saith to you, do ye. 
And there were set six stone cans or pots, after the cleansing of the Jews, holding each two or three metretes or measures. 
And Jesus saith to them, Fill ye the pots with water. And they filled them, up to the mouth or unto the highest part. 
And Jesus said to them, Draw ye now, and bear ye to the master of the feast. And they bare. 
And when the master of the feast had tasted the water made wine, and knew not whereof it was, but the ministers knew that drew the water, the master of the feast calleth the spouse, 
and saith to him, Each man setteth first good wine, and when men be full-filled, then that that is worse; but thou hast kept the good wine into this time. 
Jesus did this the beginning of signs, in the Cana of Galilee, and showed his glory; and his disciples believed in him. 
After these things he came down to Capernaum, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples; and they dwelled there not many days. 
And the pask of Jews was nigh, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
And he found in the temple men selling oxen, and sheep, and culvers, and money-changers sitting. 
And when he had made as it were a scourge of small cords, he drove out all or cast all out of the temple, and oxen, and sheep; and he shedded out the money of changers, and turned upside-down the boards. 
And he said to them that sold culvers, Take away from hence these things, and do not ye make the house of my Father an house of merchandise. 
And his disciples had mind, for it was written, The fervent love or zeal of thine house hath eaten me. 
Therefore the Jews answered, and said to him, What token or sign showest thou to us, that thou doest these things? 
Jesus answered, and said to them, Undo ye this temple, and in three days I shall raise it. 
Therefore the Jews said to him, In forty and six years this temple was builded, and shalt thou in three days raise it? 
But he said of the temple of his body. 
Therefore when he was risen from death, his disciples had mind, that he said these things of his body; and they believed to the scripture, and to the word that Jesus said. 
And when Jesus was at Jerusalem in pask, in the feast day, many believed in his name, seeing his signs that he did. 
But Jesus trusted not himself to them, for he knew all men; 
and for it was not need to him, that any man should bear witnessing of man, for he knew, what was in man. 
