EXODUS.
Chapter 14.
Forsooth the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel; turn they again, and set they tents even against Pihahiroth, which is betwixt Migdol and the sea, against Baalzephon; and in the sight thereof ye shall set tents on the sea. 
And Pharaoh shall say on the sons of Israel, They be made strait in the land, the desert hath enclosed them altogether. 
And I shall make hard his heart, and he shall pursue you, and I shall be glorified in Pharaoh, and in all his host; and the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord; and they did so. 
And it was told to the king of the Egyptians, that the people had fled; and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was changed on the people, and they said, What would we do, that we let go Israel, that it should not serve us? 
Therefore Pharaoh joined the chariot, and took with him all his people; 
and he took six hundred chosen chariots, and whatever thing of chariots was in Egypt, and the dukes of all the host. 
And the Lord made hard the heart of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he pursued the sons of Israel; and they were gone out in an high hand. 
And when the Egyptians pursued the steps of the sons of Israel before-going, they found them in tents on the sea; all the chivalry, and the chariots of Pharaoh, and all the host were in Pihahiroth, against Baalzephon. 
And when Pharaoh had nighed, the sons of Israel raised up their eyes, and they saw the Egyptians behind them, and they dreaded greatly; and they cried to the Lord, 
and said to Moses, In hap sepulchres were not in Egypt, therefore thou hast taken us away, that we shall die in wilderness? what wouldest thou do this, that thou leddest us out of Egypt? 
Whether this is not the word that we spake to thee in Egypt, saying, Go away from us, that we serve the Egyptians? for it is much better to serve them, than to die in wilderness. 
And Moses said to the people, Do not ye dread, stand ye, and see the great works of God, which he shall do today; for ye shall no more see the Egyptians, which ye see now, till into without end; 
the Lord shall fight for you, and ye shall be still. 
And the Lord said to Moses, What criest thou to me? Speak thou to the sons of Israel, that they go forth; 
forsooth raise thou thy rod, and stretch forth thine hand on the sea, and part thou it, that the sons of Israel go in the midst of the sea, by dry place. 
Forsooth I shall make hard the hearts of the Egyptians, that they pursue you, and I shall be glorified in Pharaoh, and in all the host of him, and in the chariots of him, and in the knights of him; 
and the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord God, when I shall be glorified in Pharaoh, and in the chariots, and in the knights of him. 
And the angel of the Lord, that went before the castles or tents of Israel, took himself, and went behind them; and the pillar of cloud went together with him, and left the former things after the back, 
and stood betwixt the castles or the tents of Egyptians and the castles or the tents of Israel; and the cloud was dark toward the Egyptians, and it was lightening the night toward Israel, so that in all the time of the night, they might not come nigh together to themselves. 
And when Moses had stretched forth his hand on the sea, the Lord took away the sea, the while a great wind and a burning blew in all the night, and turned the sea into dryness; and the water was parted. 
And the sons of Israel entered by the midst of the dry sea; for the water was as a wall at the right side, and the left side of them. 
And the Egyptians pursued, and entered after them, all the riding of Pharaoh, his chariots, and his knights, by the midst of the sea. 
And the watch of the morrowtide came then, and lo! the Lord beheld on the castles or the tents of the Egyptians, by a pillar of fire, and of cloud, and killed the host of them; 
and he destroyed the wheels of the chariots, and those or they were borne into the depth. Therefore the Egyptians said, Flee we Israel; for the Lord fighteth for them against us. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Hold forth thine hand on the sea, that the waters turn again to the Egyptians, on the chariots, and on the knights of them. 
And when Moses had held forth his hand against the sea, it turned again first in the morrowtide to the former place; and when the Egyptians fled, the waters came against them, and the Lord wrapped them in the midst of the flood. 
And the waters turned again, and covered the chariots, and the knights of all the host of Pharaoh, which pursued or were following, and entered into the sea; soothly not one of them was left alive. 
Forsooth the sons of Israel went through the midst of the dry sea, and the waters were to them as for a wall, on the right side, and on the left side. 
And in that day the Lord delivered Israel from the hand of the Egyptians, and they saw the Egyptians dead on the brink of the sea, 
and they saw the great hand, or power, or might, which the Lord had used against the Egyptians; and the people dreaded the Lord, and they believed to the Lord, and to Moses his servant. 
