2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 12.
If it behooveth to have glory, it speedeth not; but I shall come to the visions and the revelations of the Lord. 
I know a man in Christ that before fourteen years; whether in body, whether out of body, I know not, God knoweth; that such a man was ravished unto the third heaven. 
And I know such a man; whether in body, or out of body, I know not, God knoweth; 
that he was ravished into paradise, and heard privy words, which it is not leaveful to a man to speak. 
For such manner things I shall glory; but for me nothing, but in mine infirmities. 
For if I shall desire to glory, I shall not be unwise, for I shall say truth; but I spare, lest any man guess me over that thing that he seeth in me, or heareth anything of me. 
And lest the greatness of revela-tions enhance me, in pride, the prick of my flesh, an angel of Satan, is given to me, that he buffet me. 
For which thing thrice I prayed the Lord, that it should go away from me. 
And he said to me, My grace sufficeth to thee; for virtue is perfectly made in infirmity. Therefore gladly I shall glory in mine infirmities, that the virtue of Christ dwell in me. 
For which thing I am pleased in mine infirmities, in despisings, or reprovings, in needs, in persecutions, in anguishes, for Christ; for when I am sick, then I am mighty. 
I am made unwitting, ye constrained me. For I ought to be commended of you; for I did nothing less than they that be apostles over-measure. Though I am nought, 
nevertheless the signs of mine apostlehood be made on you, in all patience, and signs, and great wonders, and virtues. 
And what is it, that ye had less than other churches, no but that I myself grieved you not, betaking of you? Forgive ye to me this wrong. 
Lo! this third time I am ready to come to you, and I shall not be grievous to you; for I seek not those things that be yours, but you. For neither sons owe to make treasure to father and mother, but the father and mother to the sons. 
For I shall give most willfully, and I myself shall be given over for your souls; though I more love you, and be less loved. 
But be it; I grieved not you, but when I was subtle or wily, I took you with guile. 
Whether I deceived you by any of them, which I sent to you? 
I prayed Titus, and I sent with him a brother. Whether Titus beguiled you? whether we went not in the same spirit? whether not in the same steps? 
Sometime ye ween, that we shall excuse us with you. Before God in Christ we speak; and, most dear brethren, all things for your edifying. 
But I dread, lest when I come, I shall not find you such as I will, and I shall be found of you such as ye will not; lest peradventure strivings, envies, indignations, dissensions and detractions, privy speeches of discord, swellings by pride, debates be among you; 
and lest again when I come, God make me low or make me humble with you, and I bewail many of them, that before sinned, and did not penance on the uncleanness, and fornication, and unchastity, that they have done. 
