EZEKIEL.
Chapter 28.
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Son of man, say thou to the prince of Tyre, The Lord God saith these things, For thine heart was raised up, and thou saidest, I am God, and I sat in the chair of God, in the heart of the sea, since thou art man and not God, and thou gavest thine heart as the heart of God; 
lo! thou art wiser than Daniel, each private is not hid from thee; 
in thy wisdom and prudence thou madest to thee strength, and thou gattest to thee gold and silver in thy treasuries; 
in the multitude of thy wisdom, and in thy merchandise thou multipliedest to thee strength, and thine heart was raised up in thy strength; 
therefore the Lord God saith these things, For thine heart was raised up as the heart of God, 
therefore lo! I shall bring on thee aliens, the strongest of heathen. And they shall make naked their swords on the fairness of thy wisdom, and they shall defoul thy fairness. 
They shall slay, and draw down thee into the pit; and thou shalt die by the death of uncircumcised men, in the heart of the sea. 
Whether thou shalt say, and speak, I am God, before them that slay thee; since thou art a man, and not God? In the hand of them that slay thee, 
by death of uncircumcised men, thou shalt die in the hand of aliens; for I the Lord spake, saith the Lord God. 
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Son of man, raise thou wailing on the king of Tyre; and thou shalt say to him, The Lord God saith these things, Thou, a print of likeness, full of wisdom, perfect in fairness, 
were in the delights of paradise of God. Each precious stone was thy covering, sardius, topaz, and jasper, chrysolyte, and onyx, and beryl, sapphire, and carbuncle, and smaragdus; also gold was the work of thy fairness, and thine holes were made ready, in the day in which thou were made. 
Thou were with a cherub held forth, and covering; and I setted thee in the holy hill of God. In the midst of stones set afire thou wentest, 
perfect in thy ways from the day of thy making, till wickedness was found in thee. 
In the multitude of thy merchandise, thine inner things were filled of wickedness, and thou didest sin; and I casted thee out of the hill of God, and, thou cherub covering afar, I lost thee from the midst of stones set afire. 
And thine heart was raised up in thy fairness, thou lostest thy wisdom in thy fairness. I casted thee down into earth, I gave thee before the face of kings, that they should see thee. 
In the multitude of thy wicked-nesses, and in the wickedness of thy merchandise, thou defouledest thine hallowing; therefore I shall bring forth fire of the midst of thee, that shall eat thee; and I shall give thee into ashes on the earth, in the sight of all men seeing thee. 
All men that shall see thee among heathen men, shall be astonied on thee; thou art made nought, and thou shalt not be without end. 
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, set thy face against Sidon, and thou shalt prophesy of it; 
and shalt say, The Lord God saith these things, Lo! I to thee, Sidon, and I shall be glorified in the midst of thee; and they shall know, that I am the Lord, when I shall do dooms in it, and I shall be hallowed therein. 
And I shall send pestilence into it, and blood in the streets thereof, and slain men by sword shall fall down in the midst thereof by compass; and they shall know, that I am the Lord God. 
And there shall no more be an hurting of bitterness to the house of Israel, and a thorn bringing in sorrow on each side, by the compass of them, that be adversaries to them; and they shall know, that I am the Lord God. 
The Lord God saith these things, When I shall gather together the house of Israel from peoples, among which they be scattered, I shall be hallowed in them before heathen men. And they shall dwell in their land, which I gave to my servant Jacob. 
And they shall dwell secure therein, and they shall build houses, and they shall plant vines, and they shall dwell trustily, when I shall make dooms in all men that be adversaries to them by compass; and they shall know, that I am the Lord God of them. 
