2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 6.
But we helping you in work and word admonish you, that ye receive not the grace of God in vain. 
For he saith, In time well-pleasing I have heard thee, and in the day of health, I have helped thee. Lo! now a time acceptable, lo! now a day of health. 
Give we to no man any offence, or hurting, that our service or ministry be not reproved; 
but in all things give we us-selves as the ministers of God, in much patience, in tribulations, in needs, in anguishes, 
in beatings, or scourgings, in prisons, in dissensions within, in travails, in wakings, in fastings, 
in chastity, in knowing or in science, in long abiding, in sweetness, in the Holy Ghost, in charity not feigned, 
in the word of truth, in the virtue of God; by armours or arms of rightwiseness on the right half and on the left half; 
by glory and unnobleness; by evil fame and good fame; as deceivers, and true men; 
as they that be unknown and known; as men dying, and lo! we live; as chastised, and not made dead; 
as sorrowful, and evermore joying or but evermore joying; as having need, but making many men rich; as nothing having, and wielding all things. 
A! ye Corinthians, our mouth is open to you, our heart is alarged; 
ye be not anguished in us, but ye be anguished in your inwardnesses or in your entrails. 
And I say as to sons, ye that have the same reward, be ye alarged. 
Do not ye bear the yoke with unfaithful men. For what parting, or communing, of rightwiseness with wickedness? or what fellowship of light to darknesses? 
and what according of Christ to Belial? or what part of a faithful man with the unfaithful, or heathen? 
and what consent to the temple of God with maumets? or idols? And ye be the temple of the living God, as the Lord saith, For I shall dwell in them, and I shall walk among them; and I shall be the God of them, and they shall be a people to me. 
For which thing go ye out of the middle of them, and be ye separated, saith the Lord, and touch not unclean thing; and I shall receive you, 
and I shall be to you into a Father, and ye shall be to me into sons and daughters, saith the Lord almighty. 
