ISAIAH.
Chapter 6.
In the year in which the king Uzziah was dead, I saw the Lord sitting on an high seat, and raised up; and the house of the Lord was full of his majesty, and those things that were under him filled the temple. 
Seraphim stood up on it, six wings were to one, and six wings to the other; with two wings they covered the face of him, and with two wings they covered the feet of him, and with two wings they flew. 
And they cried the one to the tother, and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God of hosts; all the earth is full of his glory. 
And the lintels above of the hinges were moved altogether of the voice of the crier, and the house of the Lord was filled with smoke. 
And I said, Woe to me, for I was still; for I am a man defouled in lips, and I dwell in the midst of the people having defouled lips, and I saw with mine eyes the King, Lord of hosts. 
And one of the seraphim flew to me, and a burning coal was in his hand, which coal he had taken with a tong from the altar. 
And he touched my mouth, and said, Lo! I have touched thy lips with this coal, and thy wickedness shall be done away, and thy sin shall be cleansed. 
And I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and who shall go to you? And I said, Lo! I; send thou me. 
And he said, Go thou, and thou shalt say to this people, Ye hearing hear, and ye do not understand; and see ye the prophesy, and do not ye know. 
Make thou blind the heart of this people, and aggrieve thou the ears thereof, and close thou the eyes thereof; lest peradventure it see with his eyes, and hear with his ears, and understand with his heart, and it be converted, and I make it whole. 
And I said, Lord, how long? And he said, Till the cities be made desolate, without dweller, and houses without man. And the land shall be left desert, 
and the Lord shall make men afar. And that that was forsaken in the middle of the earth, shall be multiplied, 
and yet the tithing, either tenth part, shall be therein; and it shall be converted, and it shall be into showing, as a terebinth is, and as an oak, that spreadeth abroad his boughs; that shall be holy seed, that shall stand therein. 
