WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
Chapter 19.
Forsooth ire or wrath without mercy came on wicked men or the unpious till into the last, that is, till to the drowning of them; for why God before-knew also the things to coming or to come of them. 
For when they were turned, and had suffered, that they should lead out them, and had before-sent them with great busyness, the deeds of repenting pursued them. 
For they having yet mourning betwixt the hands, and they be-weeping at the sepulchres of dead men or weeping at the monuments of the dead, took to them another thought of unknowing; and they pursued those Hebrews, as fleers away, which they praying had sent forth. 
For why worthy need or necessity led them to this end, and they lost remembering of these things, that had befallen, that punishing should ful fill those things, that failed or lacked of torments, 
and that soothly thy people should pass wonderfully; forsooth that they should find a new death. 
For why each creature serving to thine behests, was reformed to his kind at or from the beginning, that thy children should be kept unhurt. 
For why a cloud beshadowed the castles or the tents of them, and dry earth appeared in water that was before, and a way without hindering appeared in the Reed Sea, and a field burgeoning from full great depth; For a cloud shadowed the tents of them, and in the water that was before, the earth appeared dry; and in the Red Sea way without hindrance, and a burgeoning field of full great depth; 
by which field all the nation passed, that was covered with thine hand; forsooth they saw thy marvels and wonders. 
For they as horses devoured or gnawed meat, that is, took the armours of Egyptians, which they saw dead on the brink of the sea, and as lambs they made full out joy, magnifying thee, Lord, that or for thou deliveredest them. 
For they were mindful yet of those things, that were done in the dwelling of them among Egyptians; how the land brought forth flies, for the nation of beasts, and the flood brought forth multitude of paddocks or frogs for fishes. 
Forsooth at the last they saw a new creature of birds, when they were led by covetousness or lust, and asked meats of feast or of delicious eating. 
For in the speaking to, that is, at the asking of them, of their desire, a curlew ascended or went up to them from the sea; 
and dis-eases or travails came on sinners, and not without provings or evidences of those things, that were done before by the fierceness or the force of floods. For they suffered justly, by or after their wickednesses; for they ordained more abominable unhospitality. 
Soothly some received not unknown comelings; soothly others took good men harboured into thralldom or good guests into servage. 
And not only they did these things, but soothly also another beholding or respect of them was, that they against their will received strangers. 
Forsooth they that used the same ordinances, tormented with cruelest sorrows them, that received with gladness. Who forsooth with gladness received them, that had used the same informings, with most cruel sorrows they tormented. 
Forsooth they were smitten with blindness, as they in the gates of the just man or the rightwise, when they were covered with sudden darknesses; each man sought the passing of his door. 
Forsooth while elements be turned into themselves, as the sound of manner or of quality is changed in organ, and all things keep their sound; wherefore it may be guessed of that certain sight. 
Beasts of the field were turned into beasts of water; whatever were swimming things, went in the land. 
Fire in water had power above or strength over his virtue; and water forgot the kind quenching or his quenching kind. 
Again-ward flames of corruptible beasts dis-eased not the fleshes of Hebrews going together; neither departed that good meat, that was departed lightly as ice. Flames again-ward travailed not the flesh of the corruptible beasts going together; nor dissolved it, that lightly was dissolved as ice, good meat. 
Forsooth, Lord, thou magnifiedest thy people in all things, and honouredest; and despisedest not, and helpedest them in each time and in each place or in all place standing nigh to them. 
