GENESIS.
Chapter 7.
Also the Lord said to Noah, Enter thou and all thine house into the ship, for I saw thee alone were just before me in this generation. 
Of all clean living beasts, thou shalt take by seven and by seven, male and female; forsooth of unclean living beasts, thou shalt take by twain and by twain or two and two, male and female; 
and also of the volatiles or fowls of heaven, thou shalt take, by seven and by seven, male and female, that their seed be saved on the face of all earth. 
For yet and after seven days, I shall rain on the earth forty days and forty nights, and I shall do away all substance which I made, from the face of the earth. 
Therefore Noah did all things which the Lord commanded to him. 
And he was of six hundred years, when the waters of the great flood flowed on the earth. 
And Noah entered into the ship, and his sons, and his wife, and the wives of his sons, entered with him, for the waters of the great flood. 
And of living beasts clean and unclean, and of the birds of heaven, and of each beast which is moved on the earth, 
by twain and by twain or two and two, male and female entered to Noah into the ship, as the Lord commanded to Noah. 
And when seven days had passed, the waters of the great flood flowed on the earth. 
In the six hundredth year of the life of Noah, in the second month, in the seventeenth day of the month, all the wells of the great sea were broken, and the windows of heaven were opened, 
and rain was made on the earth forty days and forty nights. 
In the end of that day Noah entered, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, his sons, and his wife, and the three wives of his sons, entered with them into the ship. 
They entered, and each beast by his kind, and all work beasts in their kind, and each beast which is moved on the earth in his kind, and each volatile by his kind; all birds and all volatiles or fowls, 
entered to Noah into the ship, by twain and by twain or two and two of each flesh in which the spirit of life was. 
And those that entered, entered male and female of each flesh, as God commanded to him. And the Lord enclosed him from withoutforth. 
And the great flood was made forty days and forty nights on the earth, and the waters were multiplied, and raised the ship on high from the earth. 
The waters flowed greatly, and filled all things in the face of the earth. Forsooth the ship was borne on the waters. 
And the waters had mastery greatly on the earth, and all the high hills under all of heaven were covered; 
the water was higher, by fifteen cubits, over the hills which it covered. 
And each flesh was wasted that moved on the earth, of birds, of living beasts, of unreasonable beasts, and of all reptiles or all creeping beasts that creep on the earth. 
All men, and all things in which the breathing of life was in the earth, were dead. 
And God did away all the substance that was on the earth, from man till to beast, as well a creeping beast, as the birds of heaven; and those or they were done away from the earth. Forsooth Noah dwelled alone, and they that were with him in the ship. 
And the waters of the great flood over-went the earth an hundred and fifty days. 
