NUMBERS.
Chapter 6.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, When a man either a woman maketh a vow, that they be hallowed, and they will hallow themselves to the Lord, 
they shall abstain from wine, and from all thing that may make drunken; they shall not drink vinegar of wine, and of anything able to make drunken, and whatever thing is pressed out of the grape; they shall not eat fresh grapes and dry, 
all the days in which they be hallowed by a vow to the Lord; they shall not eat whatever thing may be of the vinery or vine, from the rind till to the little grains that be in the midst of the grape. 
All the time of his separating, or of his avow holding, a razor shall not pass upon his head, unto the day be fulfilled in which he is hallowed to the Lord; he shall be holy, and the hair of his head shall wax. 
In all the time of his hallowing, he shall not enter upon a dead body, 
and soothly he shall not be defouled upon the dead body of his father and of his mother, of brother and of sister, for the hallowing of his God is upon his head; 
each day of his separating, or avowing, shall be holy to the Lord. 
But if any man is dead suddenly before him, the head of his hallowing shall be defouled, which he shall shave anon in the same day of his cleansing, and again in the seventh day; 
forsooth in the eighth day he shall offer two turtles, either two culver birds, to the priest, in the entering of the bond of peace of witnessing. 
And the priest shall make, or offer, one for sin, and the tother into burnt sacrifice; and the priest shall pray for him, for he sinned upon a dead body, and he shall hallow his head in that day. 
And he shall hallow to the Lord the days of his separating, and he shall offer a lamb of one year for his sin, so nevertheless that the former days be made void, for his hallowing is defouled. 
This is the law of hallowing. When the days shall be fulfilled, which he deemed to fulfill by a vow, the priest shall bring him to the door of the tabernacle of the bond of peace, 
and he shall offer his offering to the Lord, a lamb of one year without wem, into burnt sacrifice, and a sheep of one year without wem, for sin, and a ram without wem, a peaceable sacrifice; 
also a basket of therf loaves, that be sprinkled altogether with oil, and cakes sodden in water, and after anointed with oil, without sourdough, and the flowing sacrifices of all these by themselves; 
which the priest shall offer before the Lord, and he shall make, or offer these, as well for sin as into burnt sacrifice. 
Soothly he shall offer the ram a peaceable sacrifice to the Lord, and he shall offer therewith a basket of therf loaves, and flowing or liquor sacrifices, that be due by custom. 
Then the Nazarite, or he that is hallowed, shall be shaved from the hair of his hallowing, before the door of the tabernacle of the bond of peace; and the priest shall take his hairs, and he shall put them upon the fire, which is put under the sacrifice of peaceable things. 
And he shall take the shoulder sodden of the ram, and one therf cake from the basket, and one thin therf cake first sodden in water and after-ward fried in oil, and he shall betake them into the hands of the Nazarite, after that his head is shaved. 
And the priest shall raise in the sight of the Lord the things taken again of him. And those things hallowed shall be the priest’s part, as the breast which is commanded to be separated, and the hip. After these things the Nazarite may drink wine. 
This is the law of the Nazarite, when he hath avowed his offering to the Lord, in the time of his consecration, or hallowing, besides these things which his hand findeth. By this that he hath avowed in soul, or in will, so he shall do, to the perfection of his hallowing. 
And the Lord spake to Moses and said, 
Speak thou to Aaron and to his sons, Thus ye shall bless the sons of Israel, and ye shall say to them, 
The Lord bless thee, and keep thee; 
the Lord show his face to thee, and have mercy upon thee; 
the Lord turn his cheer to thee, and give peace to thee. 
They shall call inwardly my name on the sons of Israel, and I shall bless them. 
