ISAIAH.
Chapter 11.
And a rod shall go out of the root of Jesse, and a flower shall ascend or go up of the root of it. 
And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest on him, the spirit of wisdom and of understanding, the spirit of counsel and of strength, the spirit of knowing and of piety; 
and the spirit of the dread of the Lord shall fill him. He shall deem not by the sight of eyes, neither he shall reprove, either convict, by the hearing of ears; 
but he shall deem in rightfulness or rightwiseness poor men, and he shall reprove in equity, for the mild men of the earth. And he shall smite the land with the rod of his mouth, and with the spirit of his lips he shall slay the wicked man. 
And rightfulness or rightwiseness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faith shall be the girding of his reins. 
A wolf shall dwell with a lamb, and a leopard shall rest with a kid; a calf, and a lion, and a sheep shall dwell together, and a little child shall drive them. 
A calf and a bear shall be pastured together; the whelps of them shall rest together, and a lion as an ox shall eat straw. 
And a young sucking child from the teat shall delight on the hole of a snake, and he that is weaned shall put his hand in the cave of the cockatrice. 
They shall not annoy, and shall not slay, in all mine holy hill or holy mountain; for why the earth is filled with the knowing of the Lord, as the waters of the sea covering. 
In that day the root of Jesse, that standeth into the sign of peoples; heathen men shall beseech him, and his sepulchre shall be glorious. 
And it shall be in that day, the Lord shall add the second time his hand to have in possession the residue of his people that shall be left, of the Assyrian, and of Egypt, and of Pathros, and of Ethiopia, and of Elam, and of Shinar, and of Hamath, and of the isles of the sea. 
And he shall raise a sign to nations, and shall gather together the fleers-away of Israel; and he shall gather together the scattered men of Judah from the four coasts of the earth. 
And the envy of Ephraim shall be done away, and the enemies of Judah shall perish; Ephraim shall not have envy to Judah, and Judah shall not fight against Ephraim. 
And they shall fly into the shoulders of Philistines by the sea, they shall take prey together of the sons of the east; Idumea and Moab shall be under the commandment of the hand of them, and the sons of Ammon shall be obedient. 
And the Lord shall make desolate the tongue of the sea of Egypt, and he shall raise his hand on the flood in the strength of his spirit; and he shall smite, either part, it into seven rivers, so that shod men pass by it. 
And a way shall be to my residue people that shall be left, of the Assyrians, as it was to Israel, in the day in which it ascended or went up from the land of Egypt. 
