JOSHUA.
Chapter 15.
Then this was the part of the sons of Judah, by their kindreds; from the term of Edom till to the desert of Zin against the south, and till to the last part of the south coast, 
the beginning thereof from the height of the saltiest sea, and from the arm thereof, that beholdeth to the south. 
And it goeth out against the ascending or going up of Scorpion, and passeth into Zin; and it ascendeth or went up into Kadeshbarnea, and cometh into Hezron, and it ascendeth to Adar, and compasseth Karkaa; 
and from thence it passeth into Azmon, and cometh to the strand or stream of Egypt; and the terms thereof shall be the great sea; this shall be the end of the south coast. 
And from the east the beginning shall be the saltiest sea, unto the last parts of Jordan, and those parts that behold the north, from the arm of the sea unto the same flood of Jordan. 
And the term ascendeth into Bethhogla, and passeth from the north into Betharabah; and it ascendeth to the stone of Bohan, the son of Reuben, 
and it goeth unto the terms of Debir, from the valley of Achor against the north; and it beholdeth Gilgal, which is on the contrary part of the ascending or going up of Adummim, from the south part of the strand or stream; and it passeth the waters, that be called the well of the sun; and the outgoings thereof shall be to the well of Rogel. 
And it goeth up by the valley of the son of Hinnom, by the side of Jebusites, at the south; this is Jerusalem; and from thence it up-raiseth itself to the top of the hill, that is against Hinnom at the west, in the height of the valley of Rephaim, against the north; 
and it passeth forth from the top of the hill to the well of the water of Nephtoah, and it cometh unto the towns of the hill of Ephron; and it is bowed into Baalah, that is Kiriath-jearim, that is, the city of woods; 
and it compasseth from Baalah against the west, unto the hill of Seir, and it passeth by the side of the hill of Jearim to the north in Chesalon, and it goeth down into Bethshemesh; and it passeth forth into Timnah, 
and it cometh against the parts of the north by the side of Ekron; and it is bowed to Shicron, and it passeth the hill of Baalah; and it cometh into Jabneel, 
and it is closed with the end of the great sea, against the west. These be the terms of the sons of Judah, by compass in their meines. 
And Joshua gave to Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, part in the midst of the sons of Judah, as the Lord commanded to him, this part called Kiriatharba, of the father of Anak; that is Hebron. 
And Caleb did away from thence three sons of Anak, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, of the generation of Anak. 
And Caleb went up from thence, and he came to the dwellers of Debir, that was called before Kiriathsepher, that is, the city of letters. 
And Caleb said, I shall give Achsah, my daughter, wife to him that shall smite Kiriathsepher, and shall take it. 
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took the city: and Caleb gave Achsah, his daughter, wife to him. 
And when she went together, her husband counselled her, that she should ask of her father a field; and she sighed, as she sat upon the ass; and Caleb said to her, What hast thou in thy mind? 
And she answered, Give thou a blessing to me; thou hast given to me the south land and dry; join thou also thereto a moist land. And Caleb gave to her the moist land, above and beneath. 
This is the possession of the lineage of the sons of Judah, by their meines. 
And the cities from the last parts of the sons of Judah, beside the terms of Edom, from the south were these cities; Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur, 
Kinah, and Dimonah, Adadah, 
and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan, 
and Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth, 
and Hazor, Hadattah, and Kerioth, Hezron, this is Hazor, 
Amam, Shema, and Moladah, 
and Hazargaddah, and Heshmon, Bethpalet, 
and Hazarshual, and Beersheba, and Bizjothjah, 
and Baalah, and Iim, and Azem, 
and Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah, 
and Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah, 
Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon; all the cities, nine and twenty, and their towns. 
And in the field places, Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah, 
and Zanoah, and Engannim, and Tappuah, and Enam, 
and Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah, 
and Sharaim, Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederothaim; fourteen cities, and their towns; 
Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdal-gad, 
Dilean, and Mizpeh, Joktheel, 
Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon, 
Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Kithlish, 
and Gederoth, and Bethdagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah; sixteen cities, and their towns, by name, 
Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan, 
Jiphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib, 
and Keilah, and Achzib, and Mare-shah; nine cities, and their towns; 
Ekron, with his towns and villages; 
from Ekron till to the sea, all that go to Ashdod, and the towns thereof; 
Ashdod with his towns and villages; Gaza with his towns and villages, till to the strand or stream of Egypt; and the great sea is the term thereof; 
and in the hill, Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh, 
and Dannah, Kiriathsannah, this is Debir, 
Anab, and Eshtemoh, and Anim, 
Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities, and the towns of those or them; 
Arab, and Dumah, and Eshean, 
and Janum, and Bethtappuah, and Aphekah, 
Humtah, and Kiriatharba, this is Hebron, and Zior; nine cities, and their towns; 
Maon, and Carmel, and Ziph, and Juttah, 
Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah, 
and Cain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities, and their towns; 
Halhul, and Bethzur, and Gedor, 
Maarath, and Bethanoth, and Eltekon; six cities, and their towns; 
Kiriathbaal, this is Kiriathjearim, the city of woods, and Rabbah; two cities, and their towns; 
in the desert, Betharabah, Middin, and Secacah, 
Nibshan, and the city of Salt, and Engedi; six cities, and their towns; the cities were altogether an hundred and fifteen. 
Soothly the sons of Judah might not do away Jebusites, the dweller of Jerusalem; and Jebusites dwelled with the sons of Judah in Jerusalem unto this present day. 
