JUDITH.
Chapter 13.
Forsooth as soon as eventide was made, his servants hasted to their inns or to their harbourgeries, that is, tents; and Bagoas closed together the doors of the closet where Holofernes lay, and went forth. 
For all men were made faint, or drunk, of wine; 
and Judith alone was there within the closet or the privy chamber. 
Certainly Holofernes lay in the bed, asleeped or asleep with full much drunkenness. 
And Judith said to her damsel, that she should stand withoutforth before the door of the closet or the privy chamber, and espy or wait about, that no man were nigh. 
And Judith stood before the bed of Holofernes, and she prayed with tears, and with moving of her lips she said in silence, 
Lord God of Israel, confirm me, or make me stable, or Confirm me, Lord God of Israel, and in this time behold thou to the works of mine hands, that, as thou hast promised, thou raise up Jerusalem thy city; and that I perform this thing, which thing I believing thought to may be done by thee. 
And when she had said this, she nighed or went to the pillar that was at the head of his bed, and she loosened his sword, that hanged or hungthere bound on the pillar. 
And when she had drawn out of the sheath that sword, she took the hair of his head; and said, Lord God of Israel, confirm me in this hour. 
And she smote twice on or into his neck, and she cutted off his head; and she took away his curtain or his canopy from the pillars, and she wallowed away his body headless. 
And after a little while she went out, and she betook the head of Holofernes to her handmaid, and commanded, that she should put it into her scrip. 
And the two women went out or went forth by their custom, as to prayer, and they passed the tents, that is, host, of Assyrians, and they compassed the valley, and came to the gate of the city. 
And Judith said afar to the keepers of the walls, Open ye the gates, for God is with us, that hath done great virtue in Israel. 
And it was done, when the men had heard her voice, they called the priests of the city. 
And all men from the least till to the most ran to her; for they had hoped not or no more, that she should come now. 
And they tended lights, and all men encompassed about her. And she went up into an higher place, and commanded silence to be made. And when all men were still or when all had held their peace, Judith said, 
Praise ye the Lord our God, that hath not forsaken them that trust in him, and by me, his handmaid, 
he hath fulfilled his mercy, which he promised to the house of Israel, and in this night he hath slain in mine hand the enemy of his people. 
And she took out of the scrip the head of Holofernes, and showed it to them, and said, Lo! the head of Holofernes, prince of the chivalry of Assyrians; and lo! his curtain or the canopy of him, in which he lay in his drunkenness, where also the Lord our God killed him by the hand of a woman. 
Forsooth the Lord God liveth, for his angel hath kept me, both going from hence, and dwelling there, and turning again from thence hither; and the Lord hath not suffered his handmaid to be defouled, but without defouling or pollution of sin he hath again-called me to you, and I have joy in victory of the Lord or in his victory, and in my escaping, and in your deliverance. 
Acknowledge ye all to him or to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is into without end. 
Soothly all men worshipped the Lord, and said to her, The Lord hath blessed thee in his virtue, for by thee he hath brought to nought our enemies. 
And then Uzziah, the prince of the people of Israel, said to Judith, Daughter, thou art blessed of the high Lord God, before all women on earth. 
Blessed be the Lord God, that made heaven and earth, and that dressed thee into the wounds of the head of the prince of our enemies; 
for today he hath magnified so thy name, that thy praising go not away from the mouth of men, that shall be mindful of the virtue of the Lord without end; for which thou sparedest not thy life for the anguishes and tribulations of thy kin or thy kindred, but helpedest the falling before the sight of our God, or for which men thou sparedest not thy life, but puttedest it for the anguishes and tribulations of thy kin, and thou hast holpen the falling of the people before the sight of our God. 
And all the people said, Amen! amen! or Be it thus done! be it thus done! or So be it! so be it! 
And then Achior was called, and he came; and Judith said to him, That God of Israel, to whom thou gavest witnessing, that he avengeth him of his enemies, hath cut off the head of all unbelieveful men in this night by mine hand. 
And that thou prove that it is so, lo! the head of Holofernes, which in the despite of his pride despised God of Israel, and he menaced or threatened death to thee, and said, When the people of Israel is taken, I shall command thy sides to be pierced with a sword. 
And when Achior saw the head of Holofernes, he was anguished for dread, and he fell down on his face upon the earth, and his soul suffered anesthetizing, that is, swooning. 
And after that he had taken again his spirit, and was comforted, he felled down at the feet of Judith, and worshipped or honoured her, and said, 
Blessed art thou of thy God in all the tabernacles of Jacob; for in all folk, that shall hear thy name, God of Israel shall be magnified in thee. 
