NUMBERS.
Chapter 27.
Soothly the daughters of Zelophe-had, the son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh, that was the son of Joseph, nighed; of which daughters these be the names; Mahlah, and Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah. 
And they stood before Moses, and Eleazar, the priest, and before all the princes of the people, at the door of the tabernacle of the bond of peace; and said, 
Our father was dead in the desert, neither he was in the rebelty that was raised against the Lord under Korah, but he was dead in his sin; he had no male sons or he had not male children. 
Why is his name taken away from his meine, for he hath no son? Give ye possession to us among our father’s kinsmen. 
And Moses told their cause to the doom of the Lord; 
the which said to Moses, 
The daughters of Zelophehad ask a just thing; give thou possession to them among their father’s kinsmen, and be they successors to him into heritage. 
Forsooth thou shalt speak these things to the sons of Israel, When a man is dead without son, the heritage shall go to his daughter; 
if he hath no daughter, he shall have his heirs his brethren; 
that and if brethren be not, ye shall give the heritage to the brethren of his father; 
soothly if he have no brethren of his father, the heritage shall be given to them that be next to him. And this shall be holy by everlasting law to the sons of Israel, as the Lord commanded to Moses. 
Also the Lord said to Moses, Go up into this hill of Abarim, and behold thou from thence the land, which I shall give to the sons of Israel. 
And when thou hast seen it, also thou shalt go to thy people, as thy brother Aaron went; 
for thou offendedest me in the desert of Zin, in the against-saying of the multitude, neither thou wouldest hallow me before the people, upon the waters. These be the waters of Against-saying in Kadesh, in the desert of Zin. 
To whom Moses answered, 
The Lord God of the spirits of all flesh, purvey a man, that he be on this multitude, 
and that may go out, and enter in before them, and lead them out, and lead them in, lest the people of the Lord be as sheep without shepherd. 
And the Lord said to Moses, Take thou Joshua, the son of Nun, a man in whom the spirit of God is, and put thine hand upon him; 
and he shall stand before Eleazar, the priest, and before all the multitude. And thou shalt give to him behests, in the sight of all men, 
and a part of thy glory, that all the synagogue of the sons of Israel hear him. 
If anything shall be worthy to be done for this man, Joshua, Eleazar, the priest, shall counsel the Lord; he shall go out, and shall go in, at the word of Eleazar; he, and all the sons of Israel with him, and the tother multitude. 
Moses did as the Lord commanded, and when he had taken Joshua, he set him before Eleazar, the priest; and before all the multitude of the people; 
and when he had put his hands upon his head, he rehearsed all things that the Lord commanded. 
