JUDGES.
Chapter 1.
After the death of Joshua the sons of Israel counselled with the Lord, and said, Who shall go up before us against Canaanites, and shall be duke of the battle? 
And the Lord said, Judah shall go up; lo! I have given the land into his hands. 
And Judah said to Simeon, his brother, Go thou up with me in my lot, and fight thou against Canaanites, that I go with thee in thy lot. And Simeon went with him; 
and Judah went up. And the Lord betook Canaanites and Perizzites into their hands, and they killed in Bezek ten thousand men. 
And they found Adonibezek in Bezek, and they fought against him, and they overcame Canaanites, and Perizzites. 
And Adonibezek fled, whom they pursued, and took, and they cut off the ends of his hands and of his feet. 
And Adonibezek said, Seventy kings, when the ends of their hands and of their feet were cut away, gathered remnants of meats under my board; as I have done, so God hath yielded to me. And they brought him into Jerusalem, and there he died. 
Then the sons of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and they took it, and they smote it by the sharpness of sword, and they betook all the city to burning. 
And afterward they went down, and fought against Canaanites, that dwelled in the hilly places, and at the south, in the wild fields. 
And Judah went against Canaanites, that dwelled in Hebron, whose name was by eld or old time Kiriatharba; and Judah killed Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai. 
And from thence he went forth, and he came to the dwellers of Debir, whose eld or old name was Kiriath-sepher, that is, the city of letters. 
And Caleb said, I shall give Achsah, my daughter, wife to him that shall smite Kiriathsepher, and shall waste it. 
And when Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, had taken it, Caleb gave Achsah, his daughter, wife to him. 
And her husband stirred her, going in the way, that she should ask of her father a field; and when she had sighed, sitting on the ass, Caleb said to her, What hast thou? 
And she answered, Give thou a blessing to me, for thou hast given a dry land to me; give thou to me also a moist land with waters. And Caleb gave to her the moist land above, and the moist land beneath. 
Forsooth the sons of Kenite, the father of Moses’ wife, went up from the city of Palms with the sons of Judah, into the desert of his lot, which desert is at the south of Arad; and they dwelled with him. 
And Judah went with Simeon, his brother; and they smote altogether Canaanites, that dwelled in Zephath, and they killed him; and the name of that city was called Hormah, that is, cursing, either perfect destroying, for that city was destroyed utterly. 
And Judah took Gaza with his coasts, and Askelon, and Ekron with his terms. 
And the Lord was with Judah, and he had in possession the hilly places; and he might not do away the dwellers of the valley, for they were plenteous in iron chariots, full of weapons, sharp as scythes. 
And the sons of Israel gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said, and Caleb did away from it three sons of Anak. 
But the sons of Benjamin did not away Jebusites, the dwellers of Jerusalem; and Jebusites dwelled with the sons of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this present day. 
Also the house of Joseph went up into Bethel, and the Lord was with them. 
For when they besieged the city, that was called Luz before, 
they saw a man going out of the city, and they said to him, Show thou to us the entering of the city, and we shall do mercy with thee. 
And when he had showed to them, they smote the city by sharpness of sword; and they delivered that man and all his kindred. 
And when he was delivered, he went into the land of Hittites, and builded there a city, and called it Luz; which is called so till into this present day. 
Also Manasseh did not away Beth-shean and Taanach with their towns, and the dwellers of Dor, and Ibleam, and Megiddo, with their towns; and Canaanites began to dwell with them. 
Soothly after that Israel was comforted, he made them tributaries, either to pay tribute, and would not do away them. 
Soothly Ephraim killed not Canaanites that dwelled in Gezer, but dwelled with him. 
Zebulun did not away the dwellers of Kitron, and of Nahalol; but Canaanites dwelled in the midst of him, and was made tributary to him. 
Also Asher did not away the dwellers of Accho, and of Sidon, of Ahlab, and of Achzib, and of Helbah, and of Aphik, and of Rehob; 
and Asher dwelled in the midst of Canaanites, the dwellers of that land, and Asher killed not him. 
Naphtali did not away the dwellers of Bethshemesh, and of Bethanath; and he dwelled among Canaanites, the dwellers of the land; and Bethshe-mesh and Bethanath were tributaries to him. 
And Amorites held strait the sons of Dan in the hill, and he gave not place to them to go down to the plainer places; 
and he dwelled in the hill of Heres, which is interpreted, Witnessing, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim. And the hand of the house of Joseph was made heavy, and he was made tributary to him. 
And the term of Amorites was from the ascending or going up of Scorpion, and from the stone, and the higher places. 
