2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 10.
And I myself, Paul, beseech you, by the mildness and softness, or patience, of Christ, which in the face am meek among you, and I absent trust in you. 
For I pray you, that lest I present be not bold or not hardy by the trust, in which I am guessed to be bold or hardy into some, that deem us, as if we wander after the flesh. 
For we walking in the flesh, fight not after the flesh. 
For the arms or armours of our knighthood be not fleshly, but mighty by God to the destruction of strengths or of wardings. 
And we destroy counsels, and all highness that higheth or raised itself against the science of God, and drive into captivity all understanding into the service of Christ. 
And we have ready to avenge all unobedience, when your obedience shall be ful filled. 
See ye the things that be after the face. If any man trusteth to himself, that he is of Christ, think he this thing again with himself, for as he is Christ’s, so also we. 
For if I shall glory, anything more of our power, which the Lord gave to us into edifying, and not into your destruction, I shall not be shamed. 
But that I be not guessed as to fear you by epistles, 
for they say, That epistles be grievous or be heavy and strong, but the presence of the body is feeble, and the word worthy to be despised or it is contemptible. 
He that is such one, think this, for such as we absent be in word by epistles, such we be present in deed. 
For we dare not put us among, or comparison us to some men, that commend themselves; but we measure us in us-selves, and comparison us-selves to us. 
For we shall not have glory over-measure, but by the measure of the rule which God measured to us, the measure that stretcheth till to you. 
For we overstretch not forth us, as not stretching to you. For to you we came in the gospel of Christ, 
not glorying over-measure in other men’s travails. For we have hope of your faith that waxeth in you, to be magnified by our rule in abundance, 
also to preach into those things that be beyond you, not to have glory in other man’s rule, in these things that be made ready. 
He that glorieth, have glory in the Lord. 
For not he that commendeth himself is approved, but whom God commendeth. 
