2ND CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 11.
I would that ye would suffer a little thing of mine unwisdom, but also support ye me or bear me up. 
For I love you by the love of God; for I have espoused you to one husband, to yield a chaste virgin to Christ, or to give you, a chaste virgin, to one man, Christ. 
But I dread, lest as the serpent deceived Eve with his subtle fraud, so your wits be corrupted, and fallen down from the simpleness that is in Christ. 
For if he that cometh, preacheth another Christ, whom we preached not, or if ye take another spirit, whom ye took not or whom ye received not, or another gospel, which ye received not, rightly ye should suffer. 
For I ween that I have done nothing less than the great apostles. 
For though I be unlearned in word, but not in knowing or in science. For in all things I am open or I am showed, or made known, to you. 
Or whether I have done sin, meeking, or making low, myself, that ye be enhanced, for freely I preached to you the gospel of God? 
I made naked, or I spoiled, or I took gifts of, other churches, and I took wages to your service. 
And when I was among you, and had need, I was chargeous to no man; for brethren that came from Macedonia, fulfilled or supplied that that failed to me. And in all things I have kept me, and shall keep me without charge to you. 
The truth of Christ is in me; for this glory shall not be broken in me in the countries or in the regions of Achaia. 
Why? for I love not you? God knoweth. 
For that that I do, and that I shall do, is that I cut away the occasion of them that will occasion, that in the thing, in which they glory, they be found such as we. 
For such false apostles be treach-erous, or guileful, workmen, and transfigure them into apostles of Christ. 
And no wonder, for Satan himself transfigureth him into an angel of light. 
Therefore it is not great, if his ministers be transfigured as the ministers of rightwiseness, whose end shall be after their works. 
Again I say, lest any man guess or deem me, to be unwise; else take ye me as unwise, that also I have glory a little what. 
That that I speak, I speak not after God, but as in unwisdom, in this substance of glory. 
For many men glory after the flesh, and I shall glory. 
For ye suffer gladly unwise men, when ye yourselves be wise. 
For ye suffer, if any man driveth you into servage, if any man devour-eth, if any man taketh, if any man is enhanced by pride, if any man smiteth you on the face. 
By unnobleness I say, as if we were sick in this part. In what thing any man dare, in unwisdom I say, and I dare. 
They be Hebrews, and I; they be Israelites, and I; they be the seed of Abraham, and I; 
they be the ministers of Christ, and I. As less wise I say, I more; in full many travails, in prisons more plente-ously, in wounds above-manner, or over-measure, in deaths oft times. 
I received of the Jews five times forty strokes one less; 
thrice I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, thrice I was at ship-break, a night and a day I was in the deepness of the sea; 
in ways oft, in perils of floods, in perils of thieves, in perils of kin, in perils of heathen men, in perils in the city, in perils in desert, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren, 
in travail and neediness, in many wakings, in hunger, in thirst, in many fastings, in cold and nakedness. 
Without those things that be with-outforth, mine each day’s travailing or studyingis the busyness of all churches. 
Who is sick, and I am not sick? who is caused to stumble, and I am not burnt? 
If it behooveth to glory, I shall glory in those things that be of mine infirmity, or frailty. 
God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, that is blessed into worlds, knoweth that I lie not. 
The provost of Damascus, of the king of the folk Aretas, or of the king of the folk of Aretas, kept the city of Damascenes to take me; 
and by a window in a basket I was let down by the wall, and so I escaped his hands. 
