1ST KINGS.
Chapter 6.
Forsooth it was done in the four hundred and fourscore year of the going out of the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of the realm of Solomon, in the month Zif; that is, the second month of the fourth year of the realm of Solomon on Israel; he began to build an house to the Lord. 
Forsooth the house which king Solomon builded to the Lord, had sixty cubits in length, and twenty cubits in breadth, and thirty cubits in height. 
And a porch was before the temple of twenty cubits of length, by the measure of the breadth of the temple; and the porch had ten cubits of breadth, before the face of the temple. 
And Solomon made in the temple narrow windows withoutforth and large within. 
And he builded on the wall of the temple, buildings of boards by compass, in the walls of the house, by compass of the temple, and of God’s answering place; and he made the sides in the compass. 
The building of boards, that was under, had five cubits of breadth; and the middle building of boards was of six cubits of breadth; and the third building of boards was having seven cubits of breadth. And he put beams in the house by compass withoutforth, that those cleaved not to the walls of the temple. 
And when the house was builded, it was built of perfectly hewn stones; and hammer, and ax, and all thing made of iron, were not heard in the house, while it was in building. 
The door of the middle side was in the wall of the right half of the house; and by a vice men went up into the middle solar, and from the middle solar into the third solar. 
And Solomon builded the house, and ended it. And Solomon covered the house with couples of cedar, 
and he builded a building of boards over all the house, by five cubits of height, and covered the house with cedar wood. 
And the word of the Lord was made to Solomon, and said, 
This is the house, which thou buildest; if thou goest in my behests, and doest my dooms, and keepest all my commandments, and goest by those or them, I shall make steadfast my word to thee, which word I spake to David, thy father; 
and I shall dwell in the midst of the sons of Israel, and I shall not forsake my people Israel. 
Therefore Solomon builded the house, and ended it; 
and he builded the walls of the house within with boards of cedar, from the pavement of the house unto the highness of the wall, and unto the couples; and he covered them with wood of cedar within; and he covered the pavement of the house with boards of box wood. 
And he builded a wall of boards of cedar of twenty cubits at the hinder part of the temple, from the pavement unto the higher parts; and he made the inner house of God’s answering place into the holy of holy things. 
And that temple before the doors of God’s answering place was of forty cubits. 
And all the house within was clothed with cedar, and had his smoothnesses, and his joinings made subtly, and engravings appearing above; all things were clothed with boards of cedar, and utterly a stone might not appear in the wall. 
And Solomon made God’s answering place in the midst of the house, in the inner part, that he should set or put there the ark of bond of peace of the Lord. 
And God’s answering place had twenty cubits of length, and twenty cubits of breadth, and twenty cubits of height; and he covered, and clothed it with purest gold; but also he clothed the altar with cedar. 
Also he covered with purest gold the house before God’s answering place, or the oracle, and he fastened the plates with golden nails. 
Nothing was in the temple that was not covered with gold; but also he covered with gold all the altar of God’s answering place. 
And he made in God’s answering place two cherubims or cherubim of the trees of olives, of ten cubits of height; 
one wing of cherub was of five cubits, and the tother wing of cherub was of five cubits, that is, having ten cubits, from the highness of the one wing till to the highness of the tother wing. 
And the second cherub was of ten cubits in even measure; and one work was in the two cherubims, 
that is, one cherub had the height of ten cubits, and in like manner the tother cherub. 
And he set the cherubims or cherubim in the midst of the inner temple; and the cherubims or cher-ubim held forth their wings, and one wing touched the one wall, and the wing of the second cherub touched the tother wall; and the other wings in the middle part of the temple touched themselves together. 
And he covered the cherubims or cherubim with gold, and all the walls of the temple by compass/about; 
and he engraved them with di-verse engravings and smoothness; and he made in those walls cherubims or cherubim, and palms, and diverse paintures, as standing forth and going out of the wall. 
But also he covered with gold the pavement of the house, within and withoutforth. 
And in the entering of God’s answering place he made two little doors of the trees of olives; and he made doorposts of five corners, 
and the two doors of the trees of olives; and he engraved in those or them the painture of cherubims or cherubim, and the likenesses of palms, and engravings above standing forth greatly; and he covered those or them with gold; and he covered as well the cherubims or cherubim, as the palms, and other things, with gold. 
And in the entering of the temple he made doorposts four-cornered of trees of olives; 
and he made the two doors of the trees of box, each against other; and ever either door was double, and it was opened holding itself together. 
And he engraved cherubims or cherubim, and palms, and engravings appearing greatly; and he covered all things with golden plates, by square work at rule. 
And he builded a large street, or an alley, within, by three orders of stones made fair, and by one order of wood of cedar. 
The house of the Lord was founded in the fourth year of the realm of Solomon, in the month Zif; 
and the house was made perfect, or ended, in all his work, and in all his vessels, either appurtenances, in the eleventh year, in the month of Bul; that is the eighth month; and he builded that house in seven years. 
