JUDITH.
Chapter 2.
In the thirteenth year of king Nebuchadnezzar, in the two and twentieth day of the first month, a word was made or done in the house of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Assyrians, that he would defend him from his enemies. 
And he called to him all his elder men, and all the dukes, his warriors or his fighters; and had with them the private of his counsel. 
And he said, that his thought and intent was set in that thing, to make subject each land to his empire. 
And when this saying had pleased all men, king Nebuchadnezzar called Holofernes, the prince of his chivalry, and said to him, 
Go thou out against each realm of the west, and against them principally, that despised my commandment or mine empire. 
Thine eye shall not spare any realm, and thou shalt make subject to me each strengthened city. 
Then Holofernes called the dukes and magistrates of the power of Assyrians, and he numbered men into the making ready of battle, as the king commanded to him, sixscore thousand of footmen fighters, and twelve thousand horsemen and archers. 
And he made all his purveyance to go before him in multitude of unnumberable camels, with those things that sufficed plenteously to his hosts, and he sent droves of oxen, and flocks of sheep, of which was none number. 
He ordained wheat to be made ready of all Syria in his passage. 
And he took with him much gold and silver of the king’s house. 
And Holofernes, and all his host, went forth with chariots or four-horsed carts, and horsemen, and archers, which covered the face of the earth, as locusts. 
And when he had passed the ends or the coasts of Assyrians, he came to the great hills called Auge, that be at the left half or left side of Cilicia; and he went up into all the castles of them, and he got each strong place or hold there. 
And he brake and destroyed the most strong city called Bectileth, and he robbed all the sons of Rasses, and the sons of Ishmael, that were against the face of desert, and at the south coast of the land of Chelleans. 
And he passed over Euphrates, and came into Mesopotamia, and he brake, and wasted, all the high cities that were there, from the strand or the stream of Abron till that men come to the sea. 
And he occupied the ends or the coasts thereof from Cilicia unto the ends of Japheth, that be at the south. 
And he brought with him all the sons of Midian, and he took from them all their riches; and he killed by the sharpness of sword all men against-standing him. 
And after these things he came down into the fields of Damascus, in the days of ripe corn or of reaping, that is, in harvest, and he burnt up all those corns or all the sown things, and he made all the trees and vines to be cut down; 
and his dread fell upon all men inhabiting the land or dwelling upon earth or all the dwellers in the land. 
