EZEKIEL.
Chapter 42.
And he led me out into the outermore foreyard, by the way leading to the north; and he led me into the chamber, that was against the building separated, and against the house going to the north; 
in the face, an hundred cubits of length of the side of the door of the north, and fifty cubits of breadth, 
over against twenty cubits of the inner foreyard, and over against the pavement arrayed with stone of the outermore foreyard, where a porch was joined to a three-fold porch. 
And before the chambers was a walking place of ten cubits of breadth, beholding to the inner things of the way of one hundred cubits. And the doors of those or them to the north, 
where chambers were lower in the higher things; for those or they bare up the porches that appeared on high of those or them from the lower things, and from the middle things of the building. 
For those were of three stages, and had not pillars, as were the pillars of the foreyards; therefore those or they stood on high from the lower things, and from the middle things from the earth, by fifty cubits. 
And the outermore hall enclosing the walking place was by the chambers, that were in the way of the outermore foreyard, before the chambers; the length thereof was of fifty cubits. 
For the length of the chambers of the outermore foreyard was of fifty cubits, and the length before the face of the temple was of an hundred cubits. 
And under these chambers was an entering from the east, of men entering into those, from the outer-more foreyard, 
in the breadth of the wall of the foreyard that was over against the east way, into the face of the building separated. And chambers were before the building, 
and a way was before the face of those or them, by the likeness of chambers that were in the way of the north; by the length of those or them, so was also the breadth of those or them. And all the entering of those or them, and the likenesses and the doors of those or them, 
were like the doors of chambers that were in the way beholding to the south; a door was in the head of the way, which way was before the porch separated to men entering by the east way. 
And he said to me, The chambers of the north, and the chambers of the south, that be before the building separated, these be holy chambers, in which the priests be clothed, that nigh to the Lord into the holy of holy things; there they shall put the holy of holy things, and offerings for sin, and for trespass; for it is an holy place. 
Soothly when priests have entered, they shall not go out of holy things into the outermore foreyard; and there they shall put up their clothes in which they minister, for those or they be holy; and they shall be clothed in other clothes, and so they shall go forth to the people. 
And when he had filled the measures of the inner house, he led me out by the way of the gate that beheld to the east way; and he meted it on each side by compass. 
Forsooth he meted against the east wind with the reed of measure, by compass five hundred reeds or five hundred rods, in a reed of measure by compass. 
And he meted against the wind of the north five hundred reeds or five hundred rods, in the reed of measure by compass. 
And at the south wind he meted five hundred reeds or five hundred rods, with a reed of measure by compass. 
And at the west wind he meted five hundred reeds or five hundred rods, with the reed of measure. 
By four winds he meted the wall thereof on each side by compass, the length of five hundred cubits, and the breadth of five hundred cubits, the wall separating betwixt the saintuary and the place of the common people. 
