DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 2.
And when the days of Pentecost were ful filled, all the disciples were together in the same place. 
And suddenly there was made a sound from heaven, as of a great wind coming, and it filled all the house where they sat. 
And diverse tongues or tongues diversely parted as fire appeared to them, and it sat on each of them. 
And all were filled with the Holy Ghost, and they began to speak in diverse languages or with diverse tongues, as the Holy Ghost gave to them to speak. 
And there were in Jerusalem dwelling Jews, religious men, of each nation that is under heaven. 
And when this voice was made, the multitude came together, and were astonied, or was confounded, in thought, for each man heard them speaking in his own language +or in his own tongue. 
And all were astonied, and wondered, and said together, Whether not all these that speak be men of Galilee or be Galileans, 
and how heard we or how have we heard each man our language in which we be born? 
Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and they that dwell at or in Mesopotamia, Judea, and Cappadocia, Pontus, and Asia, 
Phrygia, and Pamphylia, Egypt, and the parts of Libya, that is about Cyrene, and comelings, Romans, and Jews, and proselytes, 
men of Crete, and of Arabia, we have heard them speaking in our languages or our tongues the great things of God. 
And all were astonied, and wondered, saying together, What will this thing be? 
And others scorned, and said, For these men be full of must. 
But Peter stood with the eleven, and raised up his voice, and spake to them, Ye Jews, and all that dwell at Jerusalem, be this known to you, and with ears perceive ye my words. 
For not as ye ween or as ye guess, these be drunken, when it is the third hour of the day; 
but this it is, that was said by the prophet Joel, 
And it shall be in the last days, the Lord saith, I shall pour out my Spirit on each flesh or on all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your elders shall dream swevens. 
And on my servants and on mine handmaidens in those days I shall pour out of my Spirit, and they shall prophesy. 
And I shall give great wonders in heaven above, and signs in earth beneath, blood, and fire, and heat or vapour of smoke. 
The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before that the great and the open day of the Lord shall come. 
And it shall be, each man which-ever shall call to help or in-call the name of the Lord, shall be safe. 
Ye men of Israel, hear ye these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God before you by virtues, and wonders, and tokens, which God did by him in the middle of you, as ye know, 
ye tormented, and killed him by the hands of wicked men, by counsel determined and betaken by the fore-knowing or the prescience of God. 
Whom God raised, when the sorrows of hell were unbound, by that that it was impossible that he were holden of it. 
For David saith of him, I saw afar the Lord before me evermore, for he is on my right half, that I be not moved. 
For this thing mine heart joyed, and my tongue made full out joy or gladded, and moreover my flesh shall rest in hope. 
For thou shalt not leave my soul in hell, neither thou shalt give thine Holy to see corruption. 
Thou hast made known to me the ways of life, thou shalt full-fill me in mirth with thy face. 
Brethren, be it leaveful boldly to say to you of the patriarch David, for he is dead and buried, and his sepulchre is among us into this day. 
Therefore when he was a prophet, and knew, that with a great oath God had sworn to him, that of the fruit of his loins should one sit on his seat, 
he seeing afar spake of the resurrection of Christ, for neither he was left in hell, neither his flesh saw corruption. 
God raised this Jesus, to whom we all be witnesses. 
Therefore he was enhanced by the right hand of God, and through the promise of the Holy Ghost that he took of the Father, he shedded out this Spirit, that ye see and hear. 
For David ascended not into heaven; but he saith, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou on my right half, 
till I put thine enemies the stool of thy feet. 
Therefore most certainly know all the house of Israel, that God made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus, whom ye crucified. 
When they heard these things, they were compunct in heart; and they said to Peter and to other apostles, Brethren, what shall we do? 
And Peter said to them, Do ye penance, and each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, into remission of your sins; and ye shall take the gift of the Holy Ghost. 
For the promise or repromission is to you, and to your sons, and to all that be far, whichever or whomever our Lord God hath called. 
Also with other words full many he witnessed to them, and admonished them, and said, Be ye saved from this shrewd or this wicked generation. 
Then they that received his word were baptized, and in that day souls were increased, about three thousand; 
and they were lasting stably in the teaching of the apostles, and in communing of the breaking of bread, and in prayers. 
And dread was made to each man. And many wonders and signs were done by the apostles in Jerusalem, and great dread was in all. 
And all that believed were together, and had all things common. 
They sold possessions and chattel, or substances, or goods, and parted those things to all men, as it was need to each. 
And each day they dwelled stably with one will in the temple, and brake bread about houses, and took meat with full out joy or with gladness and simpleness of heart, 
and praised together God, and had grace to all the folk or all the people. And the Lord increased them that were made safe, each day into the same thing. 
