GENESIS.
Chapter 37.
Forsooth Jacob dwelled in the land of Canaan, in which his father was a pilgrim; 
and these were the generations of him. Joseph when he was of sixteen years, yet a child, kept a flock with his brethren, and he was with the sons of Bilhah and Zilpah, the wives of his father; and he accused his brethren at the father of the worst sin. 
Forsooth Israel loved Joseph above all his sons, for he had begotten him in his eld age; and he made to Joseph a coat of many colours. 
Forsooth his brethren saw that he was loved of the father more than all they, and they hated him, and might not speak anything peaceably to him. 
And it befelled that he told to his brethren a sweven that he saw, which cause was the seed of more hatred. 
And Joseph said to his brethren, Hear ye the sweven which I saw, 
I guessed that we bound together sheaves, or handfuls, in the field, and that as mine handful rose up, and stood upright, and that your handfuls stood about, and worshipped or honoured mine handful. 
His brethren answered, Whether thou shalt be our king, either we shall be made subject to thy lordship? Therefore this cause of dreams and words ministered the nourishing of envy, and of hatred. 
Also Joseph saw another sweven, which he told to his brethren, and said, I saw a dream that as the sun, and the moon, and the eleven stars worshipped me. 
And when he had told this dream to his father, and his brethren, his father blamed him, and said, What will this dream mean to itself that thou hast seen? Whether I, and thy mother, and thy brethren, shall worship thee on earth? 
Therefore his brethren had envy to him. Forsooth the father beheld privily the thing, 
and when his brethren dwelled in Shechem, about the keeping of the flocks of their father, 
Israel said to Joseph, Thy brethren keep sheep in Shechem; come thou, I shall send thee to them. And when Joseph answered, I am ready, 
Israel said, Go thou, and see whether all things be welsome with thy brethren, and the sheep; and then tell thou to me what is done. And so he was sent from the valley of Hebron, and came into Shechem; 
and a man found him erring in the field, and the man asked him, what he sought. 
And he answered, I seek my brethren; show thou to me where they keep their flocks. 
And the man said to him, They went away from this place; forsooth I heard them saying, Go we into Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found them in Dothan. 
And when they had seen him afar, before he nighed to them, they thought to slay him, 
and they spake together, Lo! the dreamer cometh, 
come ye, slay we him, and put we him into an eld or old cistern, and we shall say, A wild beast full wicked hath devoured him; and then it shall appear what his dreams profit to him. 
Soothly Reuben heard this, and enforced or endeavoured to deliver him from their hands, and said, Slay we not the life of him, 
neither shed we out his blood, but cast ye him into an eld or old cistern, which is in the wilderness, and keep ye your hands guiltless. Forsooth he said this, willing to deliver him from their hands, and to yield him to his father. 
Therefore anon as Joseph came to his brethren, they despoiled him of his coat, that went down to the heel, and was of many colours, 
and they put him into an eld or old cistern, that had no water. 
And they sat to eat bread; and they saw that Ishmaelite way-goers came from Gilead, and that their camels bare sweet smelling spiceries, and resin, and stacte, into Egypt. 
Therefore Judah said to his brethren, What shall it profit to us, if we shall slay our brother, and shall hide his blood? 
It is better that he be sold to Ishmaelites, and our hands be not defouled, for he is our brother and our flesh. His brethren assented to these words; 
and when the merchants of Midian passed thereforth, they drew Joseph out of the cistern, and sold him to Ishmaelites, for twenty pieces of silver; which led him into Egypt. 
And Reuben turned again to the cistern, and found not the child; and he rent his clothes, 
and he went to his brethren, and said, The child appeareth not, and whither shall I go? 
Forsooth they took his coat, and dipped it in the blood of a kid, which they had slain; 
and they sent men that bare it to their father, and said, We have found this coat; see thou, whether it is the coat of thy son, or nay. 
And when their father had known it, he said, It is the coat of my son; a wild beast full wicked hath eaten him; a beast hath devoured Joseph. 
And he rent his clothes, and he was clothed with an hair-shirt, and bewailed his son in much time. 
Soothly when his free children were gathered together, that they should appease the sorrow of their father, he would not take comfort; but said, I shall go down into hell, and shall bewail my son. And while Jacob continued in weeping, 
Midianites sold Joseph in Egypt to Potiphar, a chaste and honest servant or the gelding of Pharaoh, master of the chivalry. 
