EZEKIEL.
Chapter 25.
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, set thy face against the sons of Ammon, and thou shalt prophesy of them. 
And thou shalt say to the sons of Ammon, Hear ye the word of the Lord God; the Lord God saith these things, For that that ye said, Well! well! on my saintuary, for it is defouled, and on the land of Israel, for it is made desolate, and on the house of Judah, for they be led into captivity; 
lo! therefore I shall give thee to the sons of the east into heritage, and they shall set their folds in thee, and they shall set their tents in thee; they shall eat thy fruits, and they shall drink thy milk. 
And I shall give Rabbah into a dwelling place of camels, and the sons of Ammon into a bed of beasts; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord. 
For the Lord God saith these things, For that that thou clappedest with hands, and smitedest with the foot, and joyedest of all thy desire on the land of Israel; 
therefore lo! I shall stretch forth mine hand up on thee, and I shall give thee into ravishing of heathen men, and I shall slay thee from peoples, and I shall lose thee, and all-break thee from lands; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord. 
The Lord God saith these things, For that that Moab and Seir said, Lo! the house of Judah is as all folks, 
therefore lo! I shall open the shoulder of Moab of cities, soothly of cities thereof, and of the ends thereof, the noble cities of the land, Beth-jeshimoth, Baalmeon, and Kiriathaim, 
to the sons of the east, with the sons of Ammon. And I shall give it into heritage, that mind of the sons of Ammon be no more among heathen men, 
and in Moab I shall make dooms; and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
The Lord God saith these things, For that that Idumea did vengeance, that it avenged itself of the sons of Judah, and sinned doing trespass, and asked greatly vengeance of them; 
therefore the Lord God saith these things, I shall stretch forth mine hand on Idumea, and I shall take away from it man and beast, and I shall make it desert of the south; and they that be in Dedan shall fall by sword. 
And I shall give my vengeance on Idumea, by the hand of my people Israel; and they shall do in Edom by my wrath, and by my strong vengeance; and they shall know my vengeance, saith the Lord God. 
The Lord God saith these things, For that that Palestines did vengeance, and avenged themselves, with all will slaying, and filling old enmities; 
therefore the Lord God saith these things, Lo! I shall stretch forth mine hand on Palestines, and I shall slay the slayers, and I shall lose the remnants of the sea coast; 
and I shall make great vengeances in them, and I shall reprove in strong vengeance; and they shall know, that I am the Lord, when I shall give my vengeance on them. 
