ZEPHANIAH.
Chapter 1.
The word of the Lord, that was made to Zephaniah, son of Cushi, son of Gedaliah, son of Amariah, son of Hezekiah, in the days of Josiah, the son of Amon, king of Judah. 
I gathering shall gather all things from the face of earth, saith the Lord; 
I gathering man and beast, I gathering volatiles of heaven, and fishes of the sea; and fallings of unpious men shall be, and I shall lose men from the face of the earth, saith the Lord. 
And I shall stretch out mine hand on Judah, and on all the dwellers of Jerusalem; and I shall lose from this place the remnants of Baal, and the names of keepers of the houses, with the priests; 
and them that worship on roofs the knighthood of heaven, and worship, and swear in the Lord, and swear in Malcham; 
and which be turned away behind the back of the Lord, and which sought not the Lord, neither ensearched him. 
Be ye still from the face of the Lord God, for nigh is the day of the Lord; for the Lord made ready a sacrifice, he hallowed his called men. 
And it shall be, in the day of sacrifice of the Lord, I shall visit on princes, and on sons of the king, and on all that be clothed with pilgrims’, either strange, clothing. 
And I shall visit on each that proudly entereth on the threshold in that day, which fill the house of their Lord God with wickedness and guile. 
And there shall be in that day, saith the Lord, a voice of cry from the gate of fishes, and yelling from the second gate, and great defouling from little hills. 
Yell ye, dwellers of Pila; all the people of Canaan was still altogether, all men wrapped in silver perished. 
And it shall be, in that time, I shall seek throughout Jerusalem with lanterns, and I shall visit on all men pitched in their dregs, which say in their hearts, The Lord shall not do well, and he shall not do evil. 
And the strength of them shall be into ravishing, and the houses of them into desert; and they shall build houses, and shall not inhabit; and they shall plant vineyards, and they shall not drink the wine of them. 
Nigh is the great day of the Lord, nigh and swift full much; the voice of the day of the Lord is bitter, a strong man shall be in tribulation there. 
That day is a day of wrath, day of tribulation and anguish, day of neediness and wretchedness, day of darknesses and mist, day of cloud and whirlwind, 
day of trump and of noise on strong cities and on high corners. 
And I shall trouble men, and they shall walk as blind, for they have sinned against the Lord; and the blood of them shall be shed out as earth, and the bodies of them shall be as turds. 
But the silver of them, and the gold of them, shall not be able to deliver them in the day of wrath of the Lord; in fire of his fervor all earth shall be devoured, for he shall make end with hasting to all men inhabiting the earth. 
