1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 26.
Forsooth these were the partings of the porters; of the sons of Korah, Meshelemiah was the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. 
The sons of Meshelemiah were Zechariah the first begotten, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 
Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh. 
And the sons of Obededom were these; Shemaiah the first begotten, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, Nethaneel the fifth, 
Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth, for the Lord blessed him. 
And to Shemaiah, his son, were born sons, sovereigns of their meines; for they were full strong men. 
Therefore the sons of Shemaiah were Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, and Elzabad; and his brethren, full strong men, also Elihu, and Semachiah. 
All these were of the sons of Obededom; they and their sons and their brethren, full strong men for to serve, two and sixty of Obededom. 
And of Meshelemiah were eighteen sons and brethren, full strong men. 
And of Hosah, that is, of the sons of Merari, Simri was prince; and for he had no first begotten son, therefore his father ordained him into a prince; 
and Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth; all these thirteen were the sons and brethren of Hosah. 
These were parted into porters, that evermore the princes of the keepings, as also their brethren, should minister in the house of the Lord. 
Therefore lots were sent, or cast, evenly, both to the little and to the great, by their meines, into each of the gates. 
Therefore the lot of the east coast befelled to Shelemiah; and the north coast befelled by lot to Zechariah, his son, a full prudent man and well learned; 
and to Obededom and to his sons lot fell at the south coast, in which part of the house was the council of the elder men; 
Shuppim and Hosah were at the west coast, besides the Shallecheth gate that leadeth to the way of going up, keeping against keeping or ward against ward. 
And at the east part were six deacons or Levites, and at the north were four by day; and at the south also were four at midday; and, where the council was, were twain and twain or two and two. 
And in the cells, either little houses, of the porters at the west side, were four in the way, and twain or two by the cells. 
These were the partings of the porters, of the sons of Kore and of Merari. 
And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures or treasuries of the house of the Lord, and over the vessels of the holy things. 
The sons of Laadan, the son of Gershon; of Laadan were the princes of the meines of Laadan, and of Ger-shon, and of Jehiel. 
The sons of Jehiel were Zetham, and Joel, his brother, over the treasures or treasuries of the house of the Lord, 
of Amramites, and Izharites, and Hebronites, and Uzzielites. 
And Shebuel, the son of Gershom, son of Moses, was sovereign of the treasures or treasuries; 
and his brother, Eliezer; whose son was Rehabiah; and his son was Jeshaiah; and his son was Joram; and his son was Zichri; but and his son was Shelomith. 
That Shelomith, and his brethren, were over the treasures or treasuries of the holy things, which David the king hallowed, and the princes of meines, and the tribunes, and the centurions, and the dukes of the host, 
of the battles, and of the spoils of battles, which they hallowed to the reparation and appurtenance of the temple of the Lord. 
And Samuel, the prophet, hallowed all these things, and Saul, the son of Kish, and Abner, the son of Ner, and Joab, the son of Zeruiah; and all these hallowed those things by the hand of Shelomith, and of his brethren. 
And Chenaniah was sovereign, and his sons, to Izharites, to the works withoutforth on Israel, to teach and to deem them. 
And of Hebronites, Hashabiah, and his brethren, full strong men, a thousand and seven hundred, were sovereigns upon Israel beyond Jordan against the west, in all the works of the Lord, and into the service of the king. 
And Jerijah was prince of Hebron-ites, by their meines and kindreds. In the fortieth year of the realm of David there were numbered, and were found full strong men in Jazer of Gilead; 
and his brethren, of stronger age, two thousand and seven hundred, princes of meines. And king David made them sovereigns of Reubenites, and Gadites, and of the half lineage of Manasseh, into all the service of God, and of the king. 
