NEHEMIAH.
Chapter 3.
And Eliashib, the great priest, rose up, and his brethren, and priests, and they builded the gate of the flock; they made it steadfast; and they set up the gates thereof, and unto the tower of an hundred cubits they made it steadfast, unto the tower of Hananeel. 
And beside him the men of Jericho builded; and beside them builded Zaccur, the son of Imri. 
And the sons of Hassenaah builded the gates of fishes; they covered it, and setted the gates thereof, and locks, and bars. 
And Meremoth, the son of Urijah, the son of Hakkoz, builded beside them. And Meshullam, the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabeel, builded beside him. And Zadok, the son of Baana, builded beside him. 
And men of Tekoa builded beside him; but the principal men of them under-putted not their necks in the work of their Lord God. 
And Jehoiada, the son of Paseah, and Meshullam, the son of Besodeiah, builded the old gate; they builded it, and setted up the gates thereof, and the locks, and bars. 
And Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon the Meronothite, men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah, builded beside them, for the duke that was in the country beyond the flood. 
And Uzziel, the goldsmith, the son of Harhaiah, builded beside him; and Hananiah, the son of an ointment maker, builded beside him; and they let go Jerusalem till to the wall of the larger street. 
And Rephaiah, the son of Hur, prince of a street of Jerusalem, builded beside them. 
And Jedaiah, the son of Harumaph, builded beside them over against his own house; and Hattush, the son of Hashabniah, builded beside him. 
And Malchijah, the son of Harim, and Hashub, the son of Pahathmoab, builded the half part of the street, and the tower of ovens. 
Shallum, the son of Halohesh, prince of the half part of a street of Jerusalem, builded beside him, he and his sons. 
And Hanun, and the dwellers of Zanoah, builded the gate of the valley; they builded it, and setted up the gates thereof, and the locks and bars thereof; and they builded a thousand cubits in the wall unto the gate of the dunghill. 
And Malchiah, the son of Rechab, prince of a street of Bethhaccerem, builded the gate of the dunghill; he builded it, and setted it up, and covered the gates thereof, and locks, and bars. 
And Shallun, the son of Colhozeh, prince of a town of Mizpah, builded the gate of the well; he builded it, and covered it, and he set up the gates thereof, and locks, and bars; and he builded the walls of the cistern of Siloah, unto the orchard of the king, and unto the degrees of the king, which come down from the city of David. 
And Nehemiah, the son of Azbuk, prince of the half part of the street of Bethzur, builded after him, unto over against the sepulchre of David, and unto the cistern, that is builded with great work, and unto the house of strong men. 
And deacons or Levites builded after him; and Rehum, the son of Bani, builded after them. And Hashabiah, the prince of half part of the street of Keilah, builded in his street after him. 
The brethren of them, Bavai, the son of Henadad, prince of the half part of Keilah, builded after him. 
And Ezer, the son of Jeshua, prince of Mizpah, builded beside him the second measure, against the going up of the strongest corner. 
And Baruch, the son of Zabbai, builded after him in the hill the second measure, from the corner unto the gate of the house of Eliashib, the great priest. 
And Meremoth, the son of Urijah, son of Hakkoz, builded after him the second measure, from the gate of the house of Eliashib, as far as the house of Eliashib was stretched forth. 
And the priests, men of the field places of Jordan, builded after him. 
And Benjamin and Hashub builded after him over against their house; and Azariah, the son of Maaseiah, son of Ananiah, builded after him over against his own house. 
And Binnui, the son of Henadad, builded after him the second measure, from the house of Azariah unto the bowing of the wall, and unto the corner. 
Palal, the son of Uzai, builded over against the bowing of the wall, and the tower that standeth forth, from the high house of the king, that is in the large place of the prison; Pedaiah, the son of Parosh, builded after him. 
And Nethinims dwelled in Ophel till against the gate of waters at the east, and the tower that appeared over the others. 
After him men of Tekoa builded the second measure even over against, from the great tower, and appearing unto the wall of the temple. 
And the priests builded above at the gate of horses, each man over against his house. 
And Zadok, the son of Immer, builded over against his house after them. And Shemaiah, the son of Shech-aniah, the keeper of the east gate, builded after him. 
Hananiah, the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun, the sixth son of Zalaph, builded after him the second measure. Meshullam, the son of Berechiah, builded over against his chamber after him. 
Malchiah, the son of a goldsmith, builded after him unto the house of Nethinims, and of men selling shields, over against the gate of judges, and unto the solar of the corner. 
And craftsmen and merchants builded within the solar of the corner, and the gate of the king. 
