EZEKIEL.
Chapter 35.
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Thou, son of man, set thy face against the hill or mount of Seir; and thou shalt prophesy to it, 
and shalt say to it, The Lord God saith these things, Thou hill or mount of Seir, lo! I to thee; I shall stretch forth mine hand on thee, and I shall give thee desolate and forsaken. 
I shall destroy thy cities, and thou shalt be forsaken; and thou shalt know, that I am the Lord. 
For thou were an enemy everlasting, and enclosedest together the sons of Israel into the hands of sword, in the time of their torment, in the time of the last wickedness; 
therefore I live, saith the Lord God, for I shall give thee to blood, and blood shall pursue thee; and sith thou hatedest not blood, blood shall pursue thee. 
And I shall give the hill of Seir desolate and forsaken, and I shall take away from it a goer and a comer-again; 
and I shall fill the hills thereof with the carrions of their slain men. Men slain by sword shall fall down in thy little hills, and in thy valleys, and in thy strands or running brooks. 
I shall give thee into everlasting wildernesses, and thy cities shall not be inhabited; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord God. 
For thou saidest, Two folks and two lands shall be mine, and I shall wield those or them by heritage, when the Lord was there; 
therefore I live, saith the Lord God, for I shall do by thy wrath, and by thine envy, which thou didest, hating them, and I shall be made known by them, when I shall deem thee; 
and thou shalt know, that I am the Lord. I heard all thy shames, which thou spakest of the hills or mountains of Israel, and saidest, The hills of Israel be forsaken, and be given to us, for to devour. 
And ye have risen on me with your mouth, and ye have depraved, or spoken evil, against me; I heard your words. 
The Lord God saith these things, While all the land is glad, I shall turn thee into wilderness. 
As thou haddest joy on the heritage of the house of Israel, for it was destroyed, so I shall do to thee; the hill of Seir shall be destroyed, and all Idumea; and they shall know, that I am the Lord. 
