ISAIAH.
Chapter 27.
In that day the Lord shall visit in his hard sword, and great, and strong, on leviathan, serpent, a bar or a lever, and on leviathan, the crooked serpent; and he shall slay the whale, which is in the sea. 
In that day the vinery or the vineyard of clean wine and good shall sing to him. 
I am the Lord that keep that vinery; suddenly I shall give drink to it, lest peradventure it be visited against it; night and day I keep it, 
indignation is not to me. Who shall give me a thorn and a briar? In battle I shall go on it, I shall burn it altogether. 
Whether rather I shall hold my strength? It shall make peace to me, it shall make peace to me, 
for the merit of them that shall go out with fierceness from Jacob. Israel shall flower and bring forth seed, and they shall fill the face of the world with seed. 
Whether he smote it by the wound of the people of Jews smiting him? either as it killed the slain men of him, so it was slain? 
In measure against measure, when it shall be cast away, he shall deem it; he bethought in his hard spirit, by the day of heat. 
Therefore on this thing wickedness shall be forgiven to the house of Jacob, and this shall be all the fruit, that the sin thereof be done away, when it hath set all the stones of the altar as the stones of ashes hurtled down. Woods and temples shall not stand. 
Forsooth the strong city shall be desolate, the fair city shall be left, and shall be forsaken as a desert; there a calf shall be pastured, and shall lie there, and shall waste the highness thereof. 
In the dryness of ripe corn thereof women coming, and they that teach it, shall be all-broken. Forsooth it is not a wise people; therefore he that made it, shall not have mercy on it, and he that formed it, shall not spare it. 
And it shall be, in that day the Lord shall smite thee, from the bottom of the flood till to the strand or stream of Egypt; and ye sons of Israel, shall be gathered one and one. 
And it shall be, in that day men shall come with a great trump, and they that were lost, shall come from the land of Assyrians, and they that were cast out, shall come from the land of Egypt; and they shall worship the Lord, in the holy hill of Jerusalem. 
