ZEPHANIAH.
Chapter 2.
Come ye together, be ye gathered, ye folk not worthy to be loved, 
before that his commanding bring forth as dust the passing day; before that wrath of strong vengeance of the Lord come up on you, before that the day of his indignation come up on you. 
All mild, either patient, men of earth, seek ye the Lord, which have wrought the doom of him; seek ye the just, seek ye the mild, if any manner ye be hid in the day of strong vengeance of the Lord. 
For Gaza shall be destroyed, and Ashkelon shall be into desert; they shall cast out Ashdod in midday, and Ekron shall be drawn out by the root. 
Woe to you that dwell in the little part of the sea, a folk of lost men. The word of the Lord on you, Canaan, the land of Philistines, and I shall destroy thee, so that a dweller be not; 
and the little part of the sea shall be rest of shepherds, and folds of sheep. 
And it shall be a little part of him, that shall be left of the house of Judah, there they shall be fed in the houses of Ashkelon; at eventide they shall rest, for the Lord God of them shall visit them, and shall turn away the captivity of them. 
I heard the shame of Moab, and blasphemies of the sons of Ammon, which they said shamefully to my people, and they were magnified on the terms of them. 
Therefore I live, saith the Lord of hosts, God of Israel, for Moab shall be as Sodom, and the sons of Ammon as Gomorrah; dryness of thorns, and heaps of salt, and desert till into without end. The remnants of my people shall ravish them, the residues of my folk shall wield them. 
Soothly this thing shall come to them for their pride, for they blas-phemed, and were magnified up on the people of the Lord of hosts. 
The Lord shall be horrible on them, and he shall make feeble all gods of earth; and men of their place shall worship him, all the isles of heathen men. 
But and ye, Ethiopians, shall be slain by my sword. 
And he shall stretch forth his hand on the north, and shall lose Assur; and he shall put the fair city Nineveh into wilderness, and into without way, and as desert. 
And flocks, and all the beasts of folks, shall lie, or rest, in the middle thereof; and onocrotalus, and urchin shall dwell in the thresholds thereof; voice of the singing in the window, and a crow in the lintel, for I shall make thine the strength thereof. 
This is the glorious city dwelling in trust, which said in her heart, I am, and there is none other more without me. How is it made unto desert, a couch of beasts; each man that shall pass by it, shall hiss, and shall move his hand. 
