HEBREWS.
Chapter 12.
Therefore we that have so great a cloud of witnesses put to us, do we away all charge, and sin standing about us, and by patience run we to the battle, or the strife, or fight, purposed to us, 
beholding into the maker of faith, and the perfect ender, Jesus; which when joy was purposed to him, he suffered the cross, and despised confusion, and sitteth on the right half of the seat of God. 
And bethink ye on him that suffered such gainsaying of sinful men against himself, that ye be not made weary, failing in your souls. 
For ye against-stood not yet unto blood, fighting against sin. 
And ye have forgotten the comfort that speaketh to you as to sons, and saith, My son, do not thou despise the teaching or the discipline of the Lord, neither be thou made weary, the while thou art chastised of him. 
For the Lord chastiseth him that he loveth; he beateth or scourgeth every son that he receiveth. 
Abide ye still in chastising or discipline; God proffereth or offereth him to you as to sons. For what son is it, whom the father chastiseth not? 
That if ye be out of chastising or discipline, whose partners be ye all made, then ye be adulterers, and not sons. 
And afterward we had fathers of our flesh, teachers, and we with reverence dreaded them. Whether not much more we shall obey to the Father of spirits, and we shall live? 
And they in time of few days taught us by their will; but this Father teacheth to that thing that is profitable, in receiving the hallowing of him. 
And each chastising in this present time seemeth to be not of joy, but of sorrow; but afterward it shall yield fruit of rightwiseness most peaceable to men exercised by it. 
For which thing raise ye up slow hands, and knees unbound, 
and make ye rightful steps to your feet; that no man halting err, but more be healed. 
Pursue ye peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see God. 
Behold ye, that no man fail to the grace of God, that no root of bitterness burrowing upward hinder us, and many be defouled by it; 
that no man be lecher, either unholy, as Esau, which for one meal’s meat sold his first things, or heritage. 
For know ye, that afterward he coveting to inherit blessing, was reproved. For he found not place of penance, though he sought it with tears. 
But ye have not come to the fire able to be touched, and able to come to, and to the whirlwind or the great wind, and mist, and tempest, 
and sound of trump, and voice of words; which they that heard, excused them, that the word should not be made to them. 
For they bare not that that was said, And if a beast touched the hill, it was stoned or it shall be stoned. 
And so dreadful it was that was seen, that Moses said, I am afeared, and full of trembling. 
But ye have come nigh to the hill of Zion, and to the city of God living or of living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the multitude of many thousand angels, 
and to the church of the first men, which be written in heavens, and to God, doomsman of all, and to the spirit of just perfect men, 
and to Jesus, mediator of the new testament, and to the sprinkling of blood, speaking better than Abel or better speaking than Abel’s blood. 
See ye, that ye forsake or refuse not the speaker; for if they that forsaked or refusing him that spake on the earth, escaped not, much more we that turn away from him that speaketh to us from heavens. 
Whose voice then moved the earth, but now he again promiseth, and saith, Yet once and I shall move not only the earth, but also heaven. 
And that he saith, Yet once, he declareth the translation of moveable things, as of made things, that those things dwell, that be unmoveable. 
Therefore we receiving the kingdom unmoveable, have we grace, by which serve we pleasing to God with dread and reverence. 
For our God is fire that wasteth. 
