JOSHUA.
Chapter 11.
And when Jabin, king of Hazor, had heard these things, he sent to Jobab, king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph; 
forsooth to the kings of the north, that dwelled in the hilly places or mountains, and in the plain against the south of Chinneroth, and in the field places, and countries of Dor, beside the sea, 
and to Canaanite from the east and west, and to Amorite, and Hittite, and Perizzite, and Jebusite in the mountains, and to Hivite, that dwelled at the roots of the hill of Hermon, in the land of Mizpeh. 
And all went out with their companies, a full much people, as the gravel which is in the brink of the sea, and horses, and chariots, of great multitude. 
And all these kings came together at the waters of Merom, to fight against Israel. 
And the Lord said to Joshua, Dread thou not them, for tomorrow, in this same hour, I shall betake all these men to be wounded in the sight of Israel; thou shalt hock the horses of them, and thou shalt burn the chariots by fire. 
And Joshua came, and all his host with him, against them suddenly, at the waters of Merom, and felled on them. 
And the Lord betook them into the hands of Israel; which smited them, and pursued till to Great Sidon, and the waters of Misrephothmaim, and to the field of Mizpeh, which is at the east part thereof. 
And Joshua smote so all them, that he left no things of them; and he did as the Lord commanded to him; he hocked their horses, and burnt their chariots. 
And he turned again anon, and took Hazor, and smote by sword the king thereof; for Hazor held by eld or old time the princehood among all these realms. 
And he smote all persons that dwelled there, he left not any relics therein, but he wasted all things till to death; also he destroyed that city by burning. 
And he took all cities by compass, and the kings of them, and smote, and did away, as Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded to him, 
without the cities that were set in the great hills, and in the little hills or hillocks; and Israel burnt the other cities; flame wasted only one city, Hazor, the strongest. 
And the sons of Israel parted to themselves all the prey, and the work beasts of these cities, when all the men of them were slain. 
As the Lord commanded to his servant Moses, so Moses commanded to Joshua, and Joshua fulfilled all things; neither soothly he passed over one word of all the behests, that the Lord commanded to Moses. 
And so Joshua took all the land of the hills, and of the south, and the land of Goshen, and the plain, and the west coast, and the hill of Israel, and the field places thereof; 
and the part of the hill that ascendeth or goeth up to Seir till to Baalgad, by the plain of Lebanon under the hill of Hermon; Joshua took, and smote, and killed all the kings of those places. 
Joshua fought much time against these kings; 
there was no city, which betook not itself to the sons of Israel, except Hivites that dwelled in Gibeon; he took all men by battle. 
For it was the sentence of the Lord, that the hearts of them should be made hard, and that they should fight against Israel, and should fall, and they should not deserve any mercy, and should perish, as the Lord commanded, to Moses. 
Joshua came in that time, and killed Anakim, that is, giants, from the hilly places of Hebron, and of Debir, and of Anab, and from all the hill of Judah, and of Israel, and did away their cities. 
He left not any man of the generation of Anakim in the land of the sons of Israel, without the cities of Gaza, and Gath, and Ashdod, in which alone they were left. 
Then Joshua took all the land, as the Lord spake to Moses, and he gave it into possession to the sons of Israel, by their parts and lineages; and the land rested from battles. 
