GENESIS.
Chapter 39.
Therefore Joseph was led into Egypt, and Potiphar, a gelding of Pharaoh, prince of the host, a man of Egypt, bought him of the hand of Ishmaelites, of which he was brought thither. 
And the Lord was with him, and he was a man doing with prosperity in all things. And Joseph dwelled in the house of his lord, 
which knew full well that the Lord was with Joseph, and that all things which he did, were dressed of the Lord in his hand. 
And Joseph found grace before his lord, and he served him, of whom Joseph was made sovereign of all things, and he governed the house betaken to him, and all things that were betaken to him. 
And the Lord blessed the Egyptian’s house for Joseph, and multiplied all his chattel or substance, as well in houses, as in fields; 
neither he knew any other thing, but the bread which he ate. Forsooth Joseph was fair in face, and shapely in sight. 
And so after many days the lady of his lord cast her eyes into Joseph, and said, Sleep thou with me; 
which assented not to the unleave-ful work, and said to her, Lo! while all things be betaken to me, my lord wot not what he hath in his house, 
neither anything is, which is not in my power, either which he hath not betaken to me, except thee, which art his wife; how therefore may I do this evil, and do sin against my lord? 
They spake such words by all days or by long time, and the woman was dis-easeful to the young man, and he forsook the adultery. 
Forsooth it befelled in a day, that Joseph entered into the house, and did some work without witnesses. 
And she took the hem of his cloth, and she said, Sleep thou with me; and he left the mantle in her hand, and he fled, and went out. 
And when the woman had seen the cloth in her hands, and that she was despised, 
she called to her the men of her house, and said to them, Lo! my lord hath brought in an Hebrew man, that he should scorn us; he entered to me to do lechery with me, and when I cried, 
and he heard my voice, he left the mantle which I held, and he fled out. 
Therefore into proving of the truth, she showed the mantle, that she held, to her husband turning again home. 
And she said, The Hebrew servant, whom thou broughtest in, entered to me to scorn me; 
and when he saw me cry, he left the mantle that I held, and he fled out. 
And when these things were heard, the lord believed over much to the words of the wife, and he was full wroth; 
and he betook Joseph into prison, where the bound men of the king were kept, and he was enclosed there. 
Forsooth the Lord was with Joseph, and had mercy on him, and gave grace to him, in the sight of the prince of the prison, 
which betook in the hand of Joseph all the prisoners that were holden in keeping, and whatever thing was done, it was done under Joseph, 
neither the prince knew anything, for all things were betaken to Joseph; for the Lord was with him, and dressed all his works. 
