JOHN.
Chapter 18.
When Jesus had said these things, he went out with his disciples over the strand of Kidron, where was a yard, or a garden, into which he entered, and his disciples. 
And Judas, that betrayed him, knew the place, for oft Jesus came thither with his disciples. 
Therefore when Judas had taken a company of knights, and ministers of the bishops, and of the Pharisees, he came thither with lanterns, and brands, and arms. 
And so Jesus witting all things that were to come on him, went forth, and said to them, Whom seek ye? 
They answered to him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith to them, I am. And Judas that betrayed him, stood with them. 
And when he said to them, I am, they went aback, and fell down on the earth. 
And again he asked them, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. 
He answered to them, I said to you, that I am; therefore if ye seek me, suffer ye these to go away. 
That the word which he said should be fulfilled, For I lost not any of them, which thou hast given to me. 
Therefore Simon Peter had a sword, and drew it out, and smote the servant of the bishop, and cut off his right ear. And the name of the servant was Malchus. 
Therefore Jesus said to Peter, Put thou thy sword into thy sheath; wilt thou not, that I drink the cup, that my Father gave to me? 
Therefore the company of knights, and the tribune, and the ministers of the Jews, took Jesus, and bound him, 
and led him first to Annas; for he was the father of Caiaphas’ wife, that was bishop of that year. 
And it was Caiaphas, that gave counsel to the Jews, that it speedeth, that one man die for the people. 
But Simon Peter pursued Jesus, and another disciple; and that disciple was known to the bishop. And he entered with Jesus, into the hall of the bishop; 
but Peter stood at the door with-outforth. Therefore that other disciple, that was known to the bishop, went out, and said to the woman that kept the door, and brought in Peter. 
And the damsel, keeper of the door, said to Peter, Whether thou art also of this man’s disciples? He said, I am not. 
And the servants and the ministers stood at the coals, for it was cold, and they warmed them; and Peter was with them, standing and warming him. 
And the bishop asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his teaching. 
Jesus answered to him, I have spoken openly to the world; I taught evermore in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither all the Jews came together, and in huddles or in private I spake nothing. 
What askest thou me? ask them that heard me, what I have spoken to them; lo! they know, what things I have said. 
When he had said these things, one of the ministers standing nigh, gave a buffet to Jesus, and said, Answerest thou so to the bishop? 
Jesus answered to him, If I have spoken evil, bear thou witnessing of evil; but if I said well, why smitest thou me? 
And Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the bishop. 
And Simon Peter stood, and warmed him; and they said to him, Whether also thou art his disciple? He denied, and said, I am not. 
One of the bishop’s servants, cousin of him, whose ear Peter cut off, said, Saw I thee not in the yard with him? +or Whether I saw thee not in the garden with him? 
And Peter again denied, and anon the cock crew. 
Then they led Jesus to (or from) Caiaphas, into the moot hall; and it was early, and they entered not into the moot hall, that they should not be defouled, but that they should eat pask. 
Therefore Pilate went withoutforth to them, and said, What accusing bring ye against this man? 
They answered, and said to him, If this were not a mis-doer, we had not betaken him to thee. 
Then Pilate saith to them, Take ye him, and deem ye him, after your law. And the Jews said to him, It is not leaveful to us, to slay any man; 
that the word of Jesus should be fulfilled, which he said, signifying by what death he should die. 
Therefore again Pilate entered into the moot hall, and called Jesus, and said to him, Art thou king of Jews? 
Jesus answered, and said to him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or others have said to thee of me? 
Pilate answered, Whether I am a Jew? Thy folk and the bishops betook thee to me; what hast thou done? 
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world; if my kingdom were of this world, my ministers would strive, that I should not be taken to the Jews; but now my kingdom is not here. 
And so Pilate said to him, Then thou art a king. Jesus answered, Thou sayest, that I am a king. To this thing I am born, and to this I came into the world, to bear witnessing to truth. Each man that is of truth, heareth my voice. 
Pilate saith to him, What is truth? And when he had said this thing, again he went out to the Jews, and said to them, I find no cause in him or against him. 
But it is a custom to you, that I deliver one to you in pask; therefore will ye that I deliver to you the king of Jews? 
All they cried again, and said, Not this, but Barabbas. And Barabbas was a thief. 
