PROVERBS.
Chapter 29.
Sudden perishing shall come up on that man, that with hard noll, that is, an obstinate soul, despiseth a blamer; and health shall not follow him. 
The commonality shall be glad in the multiplying of just or rightwise men; when wicked men have taken princehood, the people shall wail. 
A man that loveth wisdom, maketh glad his father; but he that nourisheth a strumpet, shall lose his chattel or substance. 
A just king raiseth up the land; an avaricious man shall destroy it. 
A man that speaketh by flattering and feigned words to his friend, spreadeth abroad a net to his steps. 
A snare shall wrap a wicked man doing sin; and a just or rightwise man shall praise, and make joy. 
A just or rightwise man knoweth the cause of poor men; and an unpious man knoweth not knowing. 
Men full of pestilence destroy a city; but wise men turn away strong vengeance. 
If a wise man striveth with a fool, whether he be wroth, or laugh, he shall not find rest. 
Men-quellers hate a simple man; but just or rightwise men seek his soul. 
A fool bringeth forth all his spirit; a wise man delayeth, and reserveth into time coming afterward. 
A prince that heareth willfully the words of leasing, shall have all his servants unfaithful. 
A poor man and a lender met themselves; the Lord is the lightener of ever either. 
If a king deemeth poor men in truth, his throne shall be made steadfast into without end. 
A rod and chastising or discipline shall give wisdom; but a child, that is left to his own will, shameth his mother. 
Great trespasses shall be multiplied in the multiplying of wicked men; and just or rightwise men shall see the fallings of them. 
Teach thy son, and he shall comfort thee; and he shall give delights to thy soul. 
When prophecy faileth, the people shall be destroyed; but he that keepeth the law, is blessed. 
A servant may not be taught by words; for he understandeth that that thou sayest, and he despiseth to answer. 
Thou hast seen a man swift to speak; folly shall be hoped more than his amending or folly more is to be hoped for than the correction of him. 
He that nourisheth his servant delicately from childhood, shall find him a rebel or unobedient afterward. 
A wrathful man stirreth chidings; and he that is light to have indignation, shall be more inclined to sins. 
Lowness followeth a proud man; and glory shall up-take a meek man of spirit. 
He that taketh part with a thief, hateth his soul; he heareth a man charging greatly, and showeth not. 
He that dreadeth a man, shall fall soon; he that hopeth in the Lord, shall be raised up. 
Many men seek the face of the prince; and the doom of all men shall go forth of the Lord. 
Just or Rightwise men have abomination of a wicked man; and wicked men have abomination of them, that be in a rightful or the right way. 
