HEBREWS.
Chapter 10.
For the law having a shadow of good things to come, not that image of things, may never make men nighing or coming nigh perfect by those same sacrifices, which they offer without ceasing by all years; 
else they should have ceased to be offered, for as much as the worshippers cleansed once, had not furthermore conscience of sin. 
But in them by oft offering, mind of sins is made by all years. 
For it is impossible that sins be done away by blood of bulls, and of bucks of goats. 
Therefore he entering into the world, saith, Thou wouldest not sacrifice and offering; but thou hast shaped a body to me; 
and burnt sacrifices also for sin pleased not to thee. 
Then I said, Lo! I come; in the beginning of the book it is written of me, that I do thy will, God. 
He saying before, That thou wouldest not sacrifices, and offerings, and burnt sacrifices for sin, nor those things be pleasant to thee, which be offered by the law, 
then I said, Lo! I come, that I do thy will, God. He doeth away the first, that he make steadfast the second. 
In which will we be hallowed by the offering of the body of Christ Jesus once. 
And each priest is ready ministering each day, and oft times offering the same sacrifices, which may never do away sins. 
But this man offering one sacrifice for sins, for evermore sitteth in or on the right half of God the Father; 
from thenceforth abiding, till his enemies be put a stool of or under his feet. 
For by one offering he made perfect for evermore hallowed men. 
And the Holy Ghost witnesseth to us; for after that he said, 
This is the testament, which I shall witness to them after those days, the Lord saith, in giving my laws in the hearts of them, and in the souls of them I shall above write them; 
and now I shall no more think on the sins and the wickedness of them. 
And where remission of these is, now is there none offering for sin. 
Therefore, brethren, having trust into the entering of holy things, in the blood of Christ, 
which he hallowed to us a new way, and living by the covering or by a veil, that is to say, his flesh, 
and we having the great priest on the house of God, 
nigh we with very heart, in the plenty of faith; and be our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with clean water, 
and hold we the confession of our hope, bowing to no side, or unbowing, or unpliable; for he is true that hath made the promise. 
And behold we together in the stirring of charity, and of good works; 
not forsaking our gathering together, as it is the custom to some men, but comforting them, and by so much the more, by how much ye see the day nighing. 
For why now a sacrifice for sins is not left to us, that sin willfully, after that we have taken the knowing of truth. 
For why some abiding of doom is dreadful, and the pursuing of fire, which shall waste adversaries. 
Who that breaketh Moses’ law, dieth without any mercy, by two or three witnesses; 
how much more guess ye, that he deserveth worse torments, which defouleth the Son of God, and holdeth the blood of the testament polluted, in which he is hallowed, and doeth despite or wrong to the Spirit of grace? 
For we know him that said, To me vengeance, and I shall yield. And again, For the Lord shall deem his people. 
It is fearedful to fall into the hands of God living. +It is fearful to fall into the hands of living God. 
And have ye mind on the former days, in which ye were enlightened, and suffered great strife of passions. 
And in the tother ye were made a spectacle by shames, and tribulations; in another ye were made fellows of men living so. 
For also to bound men ye had compassion, and ye received with joy the robbing of your goods, knowing that ye have a better and a dwelling substance. 
Therefore do not ye lose your trust, which hath great rewarding. 
For patience is needful to you, that ye do the will of God, and bring again the promise. 
For yet a little, and he that is to come shall come, and he shall not tarry. 
For my just man liveth of faith; that if he withdraweth himself, he shall not please to my soul. 
But we be not the sons of withdrawing away into perdition, but of faith into the getting of soul. 
