JOB.
Chapter 36.
Also Elihu added, and spake these things, 
Suffer thou me a little, and I shall show to thee; for yet I have that, that I shall speak for God. 
I shall rehearse my knowing from the beginning; and I shall prove my worker just or rightwise. 
For verily my words be without leasing, and by them perfect knowing shall be proved to thee. 
God casteth not away mighty men, since he is mighty; 
but he saveth not wicked men, and he giveth doom to poor men. 
He taketh not away his eyes from a just or rightwise man; and he setteth kings in their seat without end, and they be raised up there. 
And if they be in chains, and be bound with the ropes of poverty, 
he shall show to them their works, and their great trespasses; for they were violent, either raveners. 
Also he shall open their ears, that he chastise them; and he shall speak to them, that they turn again from their wickedness. 
If they hear him, and keep his behests, they shall full-fill their days in good, and their years in glory. 
Soothly if they hear not, they shall pass away by sword, and they shall be wasted in folly. 
Feigners and false men stir the wrath of God; and they shall not cry to God, and acknowledge their guilt, when they be bound. 
The soul of them shall die in tempest; and the life of them among womanish men. 
He shall deliver a poor man from his anguish; and he shall open his ear in tribulation. 
Therefore he shall save thee from the strait mouth of the broadest tribulation, and not having a founda-ment under it; and the rest of thy table shall be full of fatness. 
Thy cause is deemed as the cause of a wicked man; and thou shalt receive thy cause and thy doom. 
Therefore wrath overcome thee not, that thou oppress any man; and the multitude of gifts bow thee not. 
Put down thy greatness without tribulation, and put down all strong men by strength. 
Delay thou not the night, that peoples go up for them. 
Be thou ware, that thou bow not to wickedness; for thou hast begun to follow this wickedness after wretched-ness. 
Lo! God is high in his strength, and none is like him among the givers of law. 
Who may seek out the ways of God? either who dare say to him, Thou hast wrought wickedness? 
Have thou mind, that thou knowest not his work, of whom men have sung. 
All men see God; each man be-holdeth afar. 
Lo! God is great, over-coming our knowing; the number of his years is without number. 
He taketh the drops of rain; and he poureth out rains at the likeness of floodgates, 
which come down of the clouds, that cover all things above. 
If he will stretch forth clouds as his tent, 
and lightning with his light from above, he shall cover, yea, the hinges of the sea. 
For by these things he deemeth peoples, and giveth meat to many deadly men. 
In hands he hideth light; and commandeth it, that it come again. 
He telleth of it to his friend, that it is his possession; and that he may ascend or go up to it. 
