1ST KINGS.
Chapter 15.
Therefore in the eighteenth year of the realm of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, Abijam reigned upon Judah. 
Three years he reigned in Jerusalem; the name of his mother was Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom. 
And he went in all the sins of his father, which he did before him; and his heart was not perfect with his Lord God, as the heart of David, his father, was perfect. 
But for David, his Lord God gave to him a lantern in Jerusalem, that he should raise his son after him, and that he should stand in Jerusalem; 
for David had done rightfulness or right in the eyes of the Lord, and had not bowed away from all things that the Lord had commanded to him, in all the days of his life, except the word of Uriah the Hittite. 
Nevertheless battle was betwixt Abijam and Jeroboam, in all the time of his life. 
Soothly the residue of the words of Abijam, and all things that he did, whether these be not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah? And battle was betwixt Abijam and Jeroboam. 
And Abijam slept with his fathers; and they buried him in the city of David; and Asa, his son, reigned for him. 
And Asa, king of Judah, reigned in the twentieth year of Jeroboam, king of Israel; 
and Asa reigned one and forty years in Jerusalem. The name of his grandmother was Maachah, the daugh-ter of Abishalom. 
And Asa did rightfulness or right in the sight of the Lord, as David, his father, did; 
and he took away from the land men of women’s conditions or the womanish-made men, and he purged all the filths of idols, which his fathers made. 
Furthermore and he removed Maachah, his grandmother, that she should not be princess in the solemn things of the idol Priapus, and in his maumet woods that she had hallow-ed; and he destroyed the den of him, and he brake the foulest simulacrum, and burnt it in the strand or stream of Kidron; 
soothly he did not away the high things; nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect with his Lord God, in all his days. 
And he brought into the house of the Lord those things, which his father had hallowed, and avowed or vowed, silver, and gold, and vessels. 
Forsooth battle was betwixt Asa and Baasha, king of Israel, in all the days of them. 
And Baasha, king of Israel, went up into Judah, and builded Ramah, that no man of the part of Asa, king of Judah, might go out, either go in. 
Therefore Asa took all the silver and gold, that were left in the treasuries of the house of the Lord, and in the treasuries of the king’s house, and gave it into the hands of his servants; and he sent it to Benhadad, the son of Tab-rimon, son of Hezion, the king of Syria, that dwelled in Damascus, and said, 
A bond of peace is betwixt me and thee, and betwixt my father and thy father, and therefore I sent to thee gifts, gold, and silver; and I ask, that thou come, and make void the bond of peace, that thou hast with Baasha, king of Israel, and that he go away from me. 
Benhadad assented to king Asa, and sent the princes of his host into the cities of Israel; and they smote Ijon, and Dan, and Abel, the house of Maachah or Abelbethmaachah, and all Cinneroth, that is, all the land of Naphtali. 
And when Baasha had heard this thing, he left off to build Ramah, and turned again into Tirzah. 
Forsooth king Asa sent a message into all Judah, and said, No man be excused. And they took away the stones of Ramah, and the trees thereof, by which Baasha had builded; and king Asa builded of the same stones and trees Geba of Benjamin, and Mizpah. 
Soothly the residue of all the words of Asa, and of all his strength, and all things that he did, and the cities which he builded, whether these be not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah? Nevertheless Asa had ache in his feet, in the time of his eld age. 
And Asa slept with his fathers, and he was buried with them in the city of David, his father; and Jehosh-aphat, his son, reigned for him. 
Forsooth Nadab, the son of Jeroboam, reigned on Israel, in the second year of Asa, king of Judah; and he reigned on Israel two years. 
And he did that, that was evil in the sight of the Lord, and he went in the ways of his father, and in the sins of him, in which he made Israel to do sin. 
And Baasha, the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, setted treason to him, and he smote him in Gibbe-thon, which is a city of Philistines; and Nadab and all Israel besieged Gibbethon. 
Therefore Baasha killed him, in the third year of Asa, king of Judah, and reigned for him. 
And when he had reigned, he smote all the house of Jeroboam; he left not one man of his seed, till he did away him, by the word of the Lord, which he spake in the hand of his servant, Ahijah of Shiloh, a prophet, 
for the sins of Jeroboam which he sinned, and in which he made Israel to do sin, and for the trespass, by which he wrathed the Lord God of Israel. 
Soothly the residue of the words of Nadab, and all things which he wrought, whether these be not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel? 
And battle was betwixt Asa and Baasha, king of Israel, in all the days of them. 
In the third year of Asa, king of Judah, Baasha, the son of Ahijah, reigned upon all Israel, in Tirzah, four and twenty years. 
And he did evil before the Lord, and he went in the ways of Jeroboam, and in his sins, by which he made Israel to do sin. 
