AMOS.
Chapter 3.
Sons of Israel, hear ye the word which the Lord spake on you, and on all the kindred, which I led out of the land of Egypt, and said, 
Only I knew you of all the kindreds of earth; therefore I shall visit on you all your wickednesses. 
Whether twain or two shall go together, no but it accord to them? 
Whether a lion shall roar in a forest, no but he have prey? Whether the whelp of a lion shall give voice from his den, no but he take anything? 
Whether a bird shall fall into a snare of earth, without a fowler? Whether a snare shall be taken away from earth, before that it take something? 
Whether a trump shall sound in a city, and the people shall not dread? Whether evil shall be in a city, which evil the Lord shall not make? 
For the Lord God shall not make a word, no but he show his private plan to his servants prophets. 
A lion shall roar, who shall not dread? the Lord God spake, who shall not prophesy? 
Make ye heard in the houses of Ashdod, and in the houses of the land of Egypt; and say ye, Be ye gathered together on the hills of Samaria, and see ye many strong vengeances in the midst thereof, and them that suffer false challenge in the privy places thereof. 
And they could not or knew not how to do rightful or right thing, saith the Lord, and they treasured wickedness and raven in their houses. 
Therefore the Lord God saith these things, The land shall be troubled, and be encompassed; and thy strength shall be drawn down of thee, and thine houses shall be ravished or robbed. 
The Lord saith these things, As if a shepherd ravisheth from the mouth of a lion twain or two hips, either the last thing of the ear, so the children of Israel shall be ravished, that dwell in Samaria, in the country of a bed, and in the bed of Damascus. 
Hear ye, and witness ye in the house of Jacob, saith the Lord God of hosts. 
For in the day, when I shall begin to visit the trespassings of Israel on him, I shall visit also on the altars of Bethel; and the horns of the altar shall be cut away, and shall fall down into the earth. 
And I shall smite the winter house with the summer house, and the houses of ivory shall perish, and many houses shall be destroyed, saith the Lord. 
