LEVITICUS.
Chapter 6.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
A soul, that is, a man, that sinneth, and despiseth the Lord, and denieth to his neighbour a thing betaken to his keeping, that was betaken to his faith, either taketh masterfully a thing by violence, either maketh false challenge, 
either findeth a thing lost, and denieth it furthermore, and forsweareth, and doeth any other thing of many, in which things men be wont to do sin, 
if it is convicted of the guilt, he shall yield whole all things which he would get by fraud, 
and furthermore the fifth part to the lord, to whom he did the harm. 
Soothly for his sin he shall offer a ram unwemmed of the flock, and he shall give that ram to the priest, by the value and the measure of the trespass; 
and the priest shall pray for him before the Lord, and it shall be forgiven to him, for all things which he sinned in doing. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Command thou to Aaron, and to his sons, This is the law of burnt sacrifice; it shall be burnt in the altar all night till the morrow; fire that is given from heaven shall be of the same altar. 
The priest shall be clothed with a coat, and with linen breeches; and he shall take away the ashes, which the fire devouring hath burnt out, and he shall put those beside the altar; 
and he shall be spoiled of the former clothes, and he shall be clothed with other, and he shall bear those ashes out of the tents, and in a most clean place he shall make them to be wasted, or quenched, till to a dead spark. 
Forsooth the fire shall burn evermore in the altar, which fire the priest shall nourish, putting wood under, in the morrowtide by each day; and when the burnt sacrifice is put above, the priest shall burn the inner fatness of peaceable things. 
This is everlasting fire, that shall never fail in the altar. 
This is the law of sacrifice, and of the flowing offerings, which the sons of Aaron shall offer before the Lord, and before the altar. 
The priest shall take an handful of tried wheat flour, which is sprinkled with oil, and all the incense which is put on the flour, and he shall burn it on the altar, into mind of sweetest odour of the Lord. 
Forsooth Aaron with his sons shall eat the tother part of the tried wheat flour, without sourdough; and he shall eat this in the holy place of the great porch of the tabernacle. 
Soothly therefore it shall not be dighted with sourdough, for a part thereof is offered into incense of the Lord; it shall be holy of holy things, as offering for sin and trespass. 
Males only of the kindred of Aaron shall eat it; it is a lawful thing and everlasting in your generations, of the sacrifice of the Lord; each man that toucheth them shall be hallowed. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
This is the offering of Aaron, and of his sons, which they owe to offer to the Lord, in the day of his anointing; they shall offer the tenth part of ephah of triedwheat flour, into everlasting sacrifice, the half thereof in the morrowtide, and the half thereof in the eventide; 
which shall be sprinkled with oil in a frying pan, and it shall be fried. 
Soothly the priest which is successor to his father, shall offer it hot, into the sweetest odour to the Lord; and all it shall be burnt in the altar. 
For all the sacrifice of priests shall be burnt with fire, neither any man shall eat thereof. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to Aaron and to his sons, This is the law of sacrifice for sin; it shall be offered before the Lord, in the place where burnt sacrifice is offered; it is holy of holy things. 
The priest that offereth it, shall eat it in the holy place, in the great porch of the tabernacle. 
Whatever thing shall touch the flesh thereof, shall be hallowed; if a cloth is besprinkled with the blood thereof, it shall be washed in the holy place. 
Soothly the earthen vessel, in which it is sodden, shall be broken; that if the vessel is of brass or brazen, it shall be scoured, and washed with water. 
Each male of the priests’ kin shall eat of the flesh thereof; for it is holy of holy things. 
Soothly the sacrifice which is slain for sin, whose blood is borne into the tabernacle of witnessing to cleanse in the saintuary, shall not be eaten, but it shall be burnt in fire. 
