ISAIAH.
Chapter 26.
In that day this song shall be sung in the land of Judah. The city of our strength; the saviour shall be set therein, the wall and the forewall, either a stronghold before the wall. 
Open ye the gates, and the just or rightwise folk shall enter, keeping truth. 
The eld or old error is gone away; thou shalt keep peace, peace, for thou, Lord, we hoped in thee. 
Ye have hoped in the Lord, in everlasting worlds, in the Lord God, strong without end. 
For he shall bow down them that dwell on high, and he shall make low an high city; he shall make it low till to the earth; he shall draw it down till to the dust. 
The foot of a poor man shall defoul it, and the steps of needy men shall defoul it. 
The way of a just man is rightful, the path of a just man is rightful to go. The way of the rightwise is even, even the path of the rightwise to go. 
And in the way of thy dooms, Lord, we suffered thee; thy name, and thy memorial is in desire of soul. 
My soul shall desire thee in the night, but also with my spirit in mine entrails; from the morrowtide I shall wake to thee. When thou shalt make thy dooms in the earth, all dwellers of the world shall learn rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
Do we mercy to the wicked man, and he shall not learn to do rightwise-ness; in the land of saints he did wicked things, and he shall not see the glory of the Lord. 
Lord, thine hand be enhanced, that they see not; peoples having envy see, and be shamed, and fire devour thine enemies. 
Lord, thou shalt give peace to us, for thou hast wrought all our works in us. 
Our Lord God, lords had us in possession, without thee; only in thee have we mind of thy name. 
They that die, live not, and giants, rise not again. Therefore thou hast visited, and hast all-broken them, and thou hast lost all the mind of them; 
and Lord, thou hast forgiven to a folk, thou hast forgiven to a folk. Whether thou art glorified? thou hast made far from thee all the ends of the earth. 
Lord, in anguish they sought thee; in the tribulation of grutching, thy doctrine to them. 
As she that conceived, when she nigheth sorrowful to the child bearing, crieth in her sorrows, so we be made, Lord, of thy face. 
We have conceived, and we have as travailed of child, and we have childed the spirit of health; we did not rightfulness or rightwiseness in earth. Therefore the dwellers of the earth fell not down; 
thy dead men shall live, and my slain men shall rise again. Ye that dwell in dust, awake, and praise; for why the dew of light is thy dew, and thou shalt draw down the land of giants into falling. 
Go thou, my people, enter into thy beds, close thy doors on thee, be thou hid a little at a moment, till indignation pass. 
For lo! the Lord shall go out of his place, to visit the wickedness of the dwellers of the earth against him; and the earth shall show his blood, and shall no more cover his slain men. 
