ZECHARIAH.
Chapter 11.
Thou Lebanon, open thy gates, and then the fire shall eat thy cedars. 
Yell, thou fir tree, for the cedar fell down, for great men be destroyed; yell, ye oaks of Bashan, for the strong forest is cut down. 
The voice of yelling of shepherds, for the great worship of them is destroyed; the voice of roaring of lions, for the pride of Jordan is wasted. 
My Lord God saith these things, Feed thou beasts of slaughter, 
which they that wielded slew; and sorrowed not, and sold them, and they said, Blessed be the Lord, we be made rich. And the shepherds of them spared not them, 
and I shall no more spare on them that inhabit the earth, saith the Lord. Lo! I shall betake men, each into the hand of his neighbour, and into the hand of his king, and they shall rend together the land; and I shall not deliver from the hand of them, 
and I shall feed the beast of slaying. For this thing, ye poor men of the flock, hear. And I took to me two staffs; one I called Fairness, and the tother I called Little Cord; and I fed the flock. 
And I cutted down three shepherds in one month, and my soul was drawn altogether in them; for also the soul of them varied in me. 
And I said, I shall not feed you; that that dieth, die; and that that is cut down, be cut down; and the residues devour, each man the flesh of his neighbour. 
And I took my staff, that was called Fairness, and I cutted down it, that I should make void my covenant, which I smote with all peoples. 
And it was made void in that day; and the poor men of the flock that kept to me, knew thus, for it is the word of the Lord. 
And I said to them, If it is good in your eyes, bring ye my meed; and if nay, rest ye. And they weighed my meed, thirty pieces of silver. 
And the Lord said to me, Cast away it to the maker of images, the fair price, by which I am appraised of them. And I took the thirty pieces of silver, and casted forth them in the house of the Lord, to the maker of images. 
And I cutted down my second staff, that was called Little Cord, that I should part, or unbind, the brother-hood betwixt Judah and Israel. 
And the Lord said to me, Yet take to thee the vessels of a fond or foolish shepherd; 
for lo! I shall raise a shepherd in earth, which shall not visit forsaken things, and shall not seek scattered things, and he shall not heal a thing all-broken, and shall not nourish forth that that standeth. And he shall eat fleshes of the fat, and shall unbind the claws of them. 
A! the shepherd, and idol, forsaking the flock; sword on his arm, and on his right eye; the arm of him shall be dried with dryness, and his right eye waxing dark shall be made dark. 
