ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 46.
Jesus Nave, or Joshua son of Nun, the successor of Moses in prophets, was strong in battle, that was great by or after his name. The greatest into the health of chosen men of God, to overcome enemies rising against them, that he should get the heritage of Israel. 
Which glory or What glory he got in raising his hands, and in casting sharp arrows against cities. 
Who before him against-stood so? or so withstood? for why the Lord himself smote the enemies. 
Whether the sun was not hin-dered in the wrathfulness of him, and one day was made as twain? or two? 
He called to help the highest God, mighty in overcoming enemies on each side; and God, great and holy, heard him, He inwardly called the Highest, mighty in against-fighting his enemies on either side; and the great and holy God heard him, 
in stones of hail of full great virtue. He made assault against the folk enemy or the hostile folk, and in the coming down he lost the adversaries; that heathen men know the might of him, for it is not easy to fight against the Lord; and he pursued or followed mighty men at the back or behind. 
And in the days of Moses, he and Caleb, the son of Jephunneh, did mercy; to stand against the enemy, and to forbid the folk from sins, and to refrain or draw away the grutch-ing of the malice. 
And they twain or two were steadfast, and were delivered from peril, of the number of six hundred thousand footmen, to bring them into the heritage, into the land that flow-eth milk and honey. 
And the Lord gave strength to that Caleb, and till into his eld age virtue dwelled perfectly to him; that he went up into the high places of the land, and his seed got heritage. 
And all the children of Israel saw, that it is good to obey to holy God. 
And all the judges by their names, the heart of whom was not corrupted by avarice, but were strong in battle, which were not turned away from the Lord by idolatry; that the mind of them be in blessing, 
and their bones appear or bur-geon from their place; and their name dwelleth without end, for the glory of holy men dwelleth at the sons of them. 
Samuel, the prophet of the Lord, that was loved of his Lord God, made new or renewed the empire, and anointed princes in his folk. 
In the law of the Lord, he deemed the congregation, and he saw the Lord of Jacob, 
and in his faith, he was proved a prophet. And he was known faithful in his words, for he saw the Lord of light. 
And he called into help the Lord Almighty or the almighty Lord, in overcoming enemies standing about on each side, in the offering of a man undefouled. 
And the Lord thundered from heaven, and in a great sound he made his voice heard. 
And he all-brake or trod the princes of men of Tyre, and the dukes of Philistines. 
And before the time of the end of his life, and of the world, he gave witnessing in the sight of the Lord, and of Christ, or his christ, or his anointed, that is, Saul, anointed into king; he took not of any man riches, yea, till to the shoe; and no man accused him. 
And after this he slept, and he made known to the king, that is, Saul, and he showed to him the end of his life; and he enhanced his voice from the earth in prophecy, to do away the wickedness of the folk. 
