JOHN.
Chapter 17.
These things Jesus spake, and when he had cast up or lifted up his eyes into heaven, he said, Father, the hour cometh, clarify thy Son, that thy Son clarify thee. 
As thou hast given to him power on each flesh, or man, that all thing that thou hast given to him, he give to them everlasting life. 
And this is everlasting life, that they know thee very God alone, and whom thou hast sent, Jesus Christ. 
I have clarified thee on the earth, I have ended the work, that thou hast given to me to do. 
And now, Father, clarify thou me at thyself, with the clearness that I had at thee, before the world was made. 
I have showed thy name to those men, which thou hast given to me of the world; they were thine, and thou hast given them to me, and they have kept thy word. 
And now they have known, that all things that thou hast given to me, be of thee. 
For the words that thou hast given to me, I gave to them; and they have taken, and have known verily, that I went out from thee; and they believed, that thou sentest me. 
I pray for them, I pray not for the world, but for them that thou hast given to me, for they be thine. 
And all my things be thine, and thy things be mine; and I am clarified in them. 
And now I am not in the world, and these be in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name, which thou hast given to me, that they be one, as we be. 
While I was with them, I kept them in thy name; those that thou gavest to me, I kept, and none of them perished, but the son of perdition, that the scripture be fulfilled. 
But now I come to thee, and I speak these things in the world, that they have my joy fulfilled in them-selves. 
I gave to them thy word, and the world had them in hate; for they be not of the world, as I am not of the world. 
I pray not, that thou take them away from the world, but that thou keep them from evil. 
They be not of the world, as I am not of the world. 
Hallow thou them in truth; thy word is truth. 
As thou sentest me into the world, also I sent them into the world. 
And I hallow myself for them, that also they be hallowed in truth. 
And I pray not only for them, but also for them that shall believe into me by the word of them; 
that all they be one, as thou, Father, in me, and I in thee, that also they in us be one; that the world believe, that thou hast sent me. 
And I have given to them the clearness, that thou hast given to me, that they be one, as we be one; 
I in them, and thou in me, that they be ended into one; and that the world know, that thou sentest me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved also me. 
Father, they which thou hast given to me, I will that where I am, that they be with me, that they see my clearness, that thou hast given to me; for thou lovedest me before the making of the world. 
Father, rightfully the world knew thee not or Rightful Father, the world knew not thee, but I knew thee, and these knew, that thou sentest me. 
And I have made thy name known to them, and shall make known; that the love by which thou hast loved me, be in them, and I in them. 
