DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 18.
After these things Paul went out of Athens, and came to Corinth. 
And he found a man, a Jew, Aquila by name, of Pontus by kind, that late came from Italy, and Priscilla, his wife, for that Claudius commanded all Jews to depart from Rome; and he came to them. 
And for that he was of the same craft, he dwelled with them, and wrought; and they were of rope-makers craft, or tent-makers craft, that is, to make coverings to travelling men. 
And he disputed in the synagogue by each sabbath, putting among the name of the Lord Jesus; and he counselled Jews and Greeks. 
And when Silas and Timothy came from Macedonia, Paul gave busyness to the word, and witnessed to the Jews, that Jesus is Christ. 
But when they gainsaid and blasphemed, he shook away or shook off his clothes, and said to them, Your blood be on your head; I shall be clean from henceforth, and I shall go to heathen men. 
And he passed from thence, and entered into the house of a just man, Titus by name, that worshipped God, whose house was joined to the synagogue. 
And Crispus, prince of the syna-gogue, believed to the Lord, with all his house. And many of the Corinthians heard, and believed, and were christened. 
And the Lord said by night to Paul by a vision, Do not thou dread, but speak, and be not still; 
for I am with thee, and no man shall be put to thee to annoy thee, for much people is to me in this city. 
And he dwelled there a year and six months, teaching among them the word of God. 
But when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rose up with one will against Paul, and led him to the doom, 
and said, Against the law this counseleth men to worship God. 
And when Paul began to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, If there were any wicked thing, either evil or worst trespass, ye Jews, rightly I should suffer you; 
but if questions be of the word, and of names of your law, busy your-selves or ye yourselves see; I will not be doomsman of these things. 
And he drove them from the doom place. 
And all took Sosthenes, prince of the synagogue, and smote him before the doom place; and nothing of these was to care to Gallio. 
And when Paul had abided many days, he said farewell to brethren, and by boat came to Syria. And Priscilla and Aquila came with him, which had clipped his head in Cenchrea; for he had a vow. 
And he came to Ephesus, and there he left them; and he went into the synagogue, and disputed with Jews. 
And when they prayed, that he should dwell more time, he consented not, 
but he made farewell to brethren, and said, It behooveth me to make the solemn day coming at Jerusalem, and again I shall turn again to you, if God will or God willing; and he went forth from Ephesus. 
And he came down to Caesarea, and he went up, and greeted the church, and came down to Antioch. 
And when he had dwelled there somewhat of time, he went forth, walking by row or by order through the country of Galatia, and Phrygia, and confirmed all the disciples. 
But a Jew, Apollos by name, a man of Alexandria of kind, a man eloquent, came to Ephesus; and he was mighty in scriptures. 
This man was taught the way of the Lord, and was fervent in spirit, and spake, and taught diligently those things that were of Jesus, and knew only the baptism of John. 
And this man began to do trustily in the synagogue. Whom when Priscilla and Aquila heard, they took him, and more diligently expounded to him the way of the Lord. 
And when he would go to Achaia, brethren excited, or admonished, or counselled, and wrote to the disciples, that they should receive him; which when he came, gave much to them that believed. 
For he greatly overcame Jews, and showed openly by scriptures, that Jesus is Christ. 
