MARK.
Chapter 11.
And when Jesus came nigh to Jerusalem and to Bethany, to the mount of Olives, he sendeth two of his disciples, 
and saith to them, Go ye into the castle that is against you; and anon as ye enter there ye shall find a colt tied, on which no man hath sat yet; untie ye, and bring him. 
And if any man say anything to you, What do ye? say ye, that he is needful to the Lord, and anon, he shall leave him hither. 
And they went forth, and found a colt tied before the gate withoutforth, in the meeting of two ways; and they untied him. 
And some of them that stood there said to them, What do ye, untying the colt? 
And they said to them, as Jesus commanded them; and they left it to them. 
And they brought the colt to Jesus, and they laid on him their clothes, and Jesus sat on him. 
And many strewed their clothes in the way, and other men cutted branches or boughs off trees, and strewed in the way. 
And they that went before, and that pursued, cried, and said, Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; 
blessed be the kingdom of our father David that is to come; Hosanna in highest things or Hosanna in highest. 
And he entered into Jerusalem, into the temple; and when he had seen all things about, when it was evening, he went out into Bethany, with the twelve. 
And another day, when he went out of or out from Bethany, he hungered. 
And when he had seen a fig tree afar having leaves, he came, if happily he should find anything thereon; and when he came to it, he found nothing, except leaves; for it was not time of figs. 
And Jesus answered and said to it, Now never eat any man fruit of thee more or Now no more without end any man eat fruit of thee. And his disciples heard; 
and they came to Jerusalem. And when he was entered into the temple, he began to cast out sellers and buyers in the temple; and he turned upside-down the boards of changers, and the chairs of men that sold culvers; 
and he suffered not, that any man should bear a vessel through the temple. 
And he taught them, and said, Whether it is not written, That mine house shall be called the house of praying to all folks? but ye have made it a den of thieves. 
And when this thing was heard, the princes of priests, and the scribes sought how they should lose him; for they dreaded him, for all the people wondered on his teaching. 
And when evening was come, he went out of the city. 
And as they passed forth early, they saw the fig tree made dry from the roots. 
And Peter bethought him, and said to him, or Peter having mind, said to him, Master, lo! the fig tree, whom thou cursedest, is dried up. 
And Jesus answered and said to them, Have ye the faith of God; 
truly I say to you, that whoever saith to this hill, Be thou taken, and cast into the sea; and doubt not in his heart, but believeth, that whatever he say, shall be done, it shall be done to him. 
Therefore I say to you, all things whatever things ye praying shall ask, believe ye that ye shall take, and they shall come to you. 
And when ye shall stand to pray, forgive ye, if ye have anything against any man, that also your Father that is in heavens, forgive to you your sins. 
And if ye forgive not, neither your Father that is in heavens, shall forgive to you your sins. 
And again they came to Jerusalem. And when he walked in the temple, the highest priests, and scribes, and the elder men came to him, 
and said to him, In what power doest thou these things? or who gave to thee this power, that thou do these things? 
Jesus answered and said to them, And I shall ask you one word, and answer ye to me, and I shall say to you in what power I do these things. 
Whether was the baptism of John of heaven, or of men? answer ye to me. 
And they thought within them-selves, saying, If we say of heaven, he shall say to us, Why then believe ye not to him; 
if we say of men, we dread the people; for all men had John, that he was verily a prophet. 
And they answered, and said to Jesus, We know not. And Jesus answered, and said to them, Neither I say to you, in what power I do these things. 
