MARK.
Chapter 16.
And when the sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene, and Mary of James, and Salome bought sweet smelling ointments, to come and to anoint Jesus. 
And full early in one of the week days, they came to the sepulchre, when the sun was risen. 
And they said together, Who shall move or turn away to us the stone from the door of the sepulchre? 
And they beheld, and saw the stone wallowed away, for it was full great. 
And they went into the sepulchre, and saw a youngling, covered with a white stole, sitting at the right half; and they were afeared. 
Which saith to them, Do not ye dread; ye seek Jesus of Nazareth crucified; he is risen, he is not here; lo! the place where they laid him. 
But go ye, and say to his disciples, and to Peter, that he shall go before you into Galilee; there ye shall see him, as he said to you. 
And they went out, and fled from the sepulchre; for dread and quaking or trembling had assailed them, and to no man they said anything, for they dreaded. 
And Jesus rose early the first day of the week, and appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven devils. 
And she went, and told to them that had been with him, which were wailing or mourning and weeping. 
And they hearing that he lived, and was seen of her, believed not. 
But after these things when twain of them wandered, he was showed in another likeness to them going into a town. +Forsooth after these things, he was showed in another likeness, or figure, to twain of them walking and going into a town. 
And they went, and told to the others, and neither they believed to them. 
But after at the last, when the eleven sat at the meat, Jesus appeared to them, and reproved the unbelief of them, and the hardness of heart, for they believed not to them, that had seen that he was risen from death. 
And he said to them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to each creature. 
Who that believeth, and is baptized or christened, shall be safe or saved; but he that believeth not, shall be condemned or damned. 
And these tokens or these signs shall pursue them, that believe. In my name they shall cast out fiends; they shall speak with new tongues; 
they shall do away serpents; and if they drink any venom, or deadly thing, it shall not annoy them. They shall set their hands on sick men, and they shall wax whole. 
And the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven, and he sitteth on the right half of God. 
And they went forth, and preached everywhere, for the Lord wrought or working with them, and confirmed the word with signs, either miracles, following. 
