PSALMS.
Chapter 119.
Alleluia. Aleph. Blessed be men without wem in the way; that go in the law of the Lord. 
Blessed be they, that seek his wit-nessings; and seek him in all the heart. 
For they that work wickedness; went not in his ways. 
Thou hast commanded; that thy behests be kept greatly. 
I would that my ways were dressed; to keep thy justifyings. 
Then I shall not be shamed; when I shall behold perfectly in all thy behests. 
I shall acknowledge to thee in the dressing or right ruling of mine heart; in that that I learned the dooms of thy rightfulnesses or rightwiseness. 
I shall keep thy justifyings; forsake thou not me on each side. 
Beth. In what thing amendeth a young waxing man his way? in keep-ing thy words. 
In all mine heart I sought thee; put thou me not away from thy behests. 
In mine heart I hid thy speeches; that I do not sin against thee. 
Lord, thou art blessed; teach thou me thy justifyings. 
In my lips I have pronounced; all the dooms of thy mouth. 
I delighted in the way of thy witnessings; as in all riches. 
I shall be exercised, either busily occupied, in thy behests; and I shall behold thy ways. 
I shall bethink in thy justifyings; I shall not forget thy words. 
Gimel. Yield to thy servant; quicken thou me, and I shall keep thy words. 
Lighten thou mine eyes; and I shall behold the marvels of thy law. 
I am a comeling in earth; hide thou not thy behests from me. 
My soul coveted to desire thy justifyings; in all time. 
Thou blamedest the proud; they be cursed, that bow away from thy behests. 
Do thou away from me shame and despising; for I sought thy witnessings. 
For why princes sat, and spake against me; but thy servant was exercised in thy justifyings. 
For why and thy witnessings is my thinking; and my counsel is thy justifyings. 
Daleth. My soul cleaved to the pavement; quicken thou me by thy word. 
I told out my ways, and thou heardest me; teach thou me thy justifyings. 
Learn or Inform thou me the way of thy justifyings; and I shall be exercised in thy marvels. 
My soul napped for annoyance; confirm thou me in thy words. 
Remove thou from me the way of wickedness; and in thy law have thou mercy on me. 
I chose the way of truth; I forgat not thy dooms. 
Lord, I cleaved to thy witnessings; do not thou shame me. 
I ran the way of thy command-ments; when thou alargedest mine heart. 
He. Lord, set thou to me a law, the way of thy justifyings; and I shall seek it evermore. 
Give thou understanding to me, and I shall seek thy law; and I shall keep it in all mine heart. 
Lead me forth in the path of thy behests; for I would or delight in it. 
Bow down mine heart into thy witnessings; and not into avarice. 
Turn thou away mine eyes, that they see not vanity; quicken thou me in thy way. 
Ordain thy speech to thy servant; in thy dread. 
Cut away my shame, which I supposed; for thy dooms be merry. 
Lo! I coveted thy commandments; quicken thou me in thine equity. 
Vau. And, Lord, thy mercy come up on me; thine health come by thy speech. 
And I shall answer a word to men saying shame to me; for I hoped in thy words. 
And take thou not away from my mouth the word of truth utterly; for I hoped above in thy dooms. 
And I shall keep thy law ever-more; into the world, and into the world of world. 
And I went in largeness; for I sought thy commandments. 
And I spake of thy witnessings in the sight of kings; and I was not shamed. 
And I bethought in thy behests; which I loved. 
And I raised mine hands to thy commandments, which I loved; and I shall be exercised in thy justifyings. 
Zain. Lord, have thou mind on thy word to thy servant; in which word thou hast given hope to me. 
This comforted me in my lowness; for thy word quickened me. 
Proud men did wickedly to me by all things; but I bowed not away from thy law. 
Lord, I was mindful of thy dooms from the world; and I was comforted. 
Failing held me; for sinners for-saking thy law. 
Thy justifyings were delightable to me to be sung; in the place of my pilgrimage. 
Lord, I had mind of thy name by night; and I kept thy law. 
This thing was made to me; for I sought thy justifyings. 
Cheth. Lord, my part; I said to keep thy law. 
I besought thy face in all mine heart; have thou mercy on me by thy speech. 
I bethought on my ways; and I turned my feet into thy witnessings. 
I am ready, and I am not troubled; to keep thy commandments. 
The cords of sinners have em-braced me; and I have not forgotten thy law. 
At midnight, I rose to acknowl-edge to thee; on the dooms of thy justifyings. 
I am partner of all that dread thee; and keep thy behests. 
Lord, the earth is full of thy mercy; teach thou me thy justifyings. 
Teth. Lord, thou hast done good-ness with thy servant; by thy word. 
Teach thou me goodness, and lore, either chastising, and knowing; for I believed to thy behests. 
Before that I was made meek, I trespassed; therefore I kept thy speech. 
Thou art good; and in thy good-ness teach thou me thy justifyings. 
The wickedness of them that be proud, is multiplied on me; but in all mine heart I shall seek thy behests. 
The heart of them is crudded, either made hard, as milk; but I be-thought on thy law. 
It is good to me, that thou hast made me meek; that I learn thy justi-fyings. 
The law out of thy mouth is better to me; than thousands of gold and silver. 
Jod. Thine hands made me, and formed me; give thou understanding to me, that I learn thy behests. 
They that dread thee shall see me, and they shall be glad; for I hoped more on thy words. 
Lord, I knew, that thy dooms be equity; and in thy truth thou hast made me meek. 
Thy mercy be made, that it comfort me; by thy speech to thy servant. 
Thy merciful doings come to me, and I shall live; for thy law is my thinking. 
They that be proud be shamed, for unjustly they did wickedness against me; but I shall be exercised in thy behests. 
They that dread thee be turned to me; and they that know thy witnessings. 
Mine heart be made unwemmed in thy justifyings; that I be not shamed. 
Caph. My soul failed into thine health; and I hoped more in thy word. 
Mine eyes failed into thy speech; saying, When shalt thou comfort me? 
For I am made as a bouget or bottle in frost; I have not forgotten thy justifyings. 
How many be the days of thy servant; when thou shalt make doom of them that pursue me? 
Wicked men told to me janglings; but not as thy law. 
All thy commandments be truth; wicked men have pursued me, help thou me. 
Almost they ended me in the earth; but I forsook not thy command-ments. 
By thy mercy quicken thou me; and I shall keep the witnessings of thy mouth. 
Lamed. Lord, thy word dwelleth in heaven; without end. 
Thy truth dwelleth in generation, and into generation; thou hast founded the earth, and it dwelleth. 
The day lasteth continually by thy ordinances; for all things serve to thee. 
But for thy law was my thinking; then peradventure I had perished in my lowness. 
Without end I shall not forget thy justifyings; for in those or them thou hast quickened me. 
I am thine, make thou me safe; for I have sought thy justifyings. 
Sinners abode me, for to lose me; I understood thy witnessings. 
I saw the end of all end; thy commandment is full large. 
Mem. Lord, how loved I or I loved thy law; all day it is my thinking. 
Above mine enemies thou madest me prudent by thy commandment; for it is to me without end. 
I understood over all men teaching me; for thy witnessings is my thinking. 
I understood above eld or old men; for I sought thy commandments. 
I forbade my feet from all evil way; that I keep thy words. 
I bowed not from thy dooms; for thou hast set law to me. 
Thy speeches be full sweet to my cheeks; above honey to my mouth. 
I understood of thy behests; there-fore I hated all the ways of wickedness. 
Nun. Thy word is a lantern to my feet; and a light to my paths. 
I swore, and purposed steadfastly; to keep the dooms of thy rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
I am made low by all things; Lord, quicken thou me by thy word. 
Lord, make thou well pleasing the willful things of my mouth; and teach thou me thy dooms. 
My soul is evermore in mine hands; and I forgat not thy law. 
Sinners setted a snare to me; and I erred not from thy commandments. 
I purchased thy witnessings by heritage without end; for those or they be the full out joying of mine heart. 
I bowed mine heart to do thy justifyings without end; for reward. 
Samech. I hated wicked men; and I loved thy law. 
Thou art mine helper, and mine up-taker; and I hoped more in thy word. 
Ye wicked men, bow away from me; and I shall seek the command-ments of my God. 
Up-take thou me by thy word, and I shall live; and shame thou not me for mine abiding. 
Help thou me, and I shall be safe; and I shall bethink evermore in thy justifyings. 
Thou hast forsaken all men going away from thy dooms; for the thought of them is unjust. 
I areckoned all the sinners of earth to be breakers of the law; therefore I loved thy witnessings. 
Nail thou my flesh with thy dread; for I dreaded of thy dooms. 
Ain. I did doom and rightwise-ness; betake thou not me to them that falsely challenge me. 
Take up thy servant into goodness; they that be proud challenge not me. 
Mine eyes failed into thine health; and into the speech of thy rightful-ness or rightwiseness. 
Do thou with thy servant after thy mercy; and teach thou me thy justify-ings. 
I am thy servant; give thou under-standing to me, that I know thy witnessings. 
Lord, it is time to do; they have destroyed thy law. 
Therefore I loved thy command-ments; more than gold and topaz. 
Therefore I was dressed to all thy behests; I hated all wicked way. 
Pe. Lord, thy witnessings be wonderful; therefore my soul sought those or them. 
Declaring of thy words lighteneth; and it giveth understanding to meek men. 
I opened my mouth, and drew the spirit; for I desired thy commandments. 
Behold thou on me, and have mercy on me; by the doom of them that love thy name. 
Dress thou my goings by thy speech; that all unrightfulness have not lordship on me. 
Again-buy thou me from the false challenges of men; that I keep thy behests. 
Lighten thy face on thy servant; and teach thou me thy justifyings. 
Mine eyes led forth the outgoings of waters; for they kept not thy law. 
Tzaddi. Lord, thou art just or rightwise; and thy doom is rightful or right. 
Thou hast commanded rightfulness or rightwiseness, thy witnessings; and thy truth greatly to be kept. 
My fervent love made me to be melted, either languished; for mine enemies forgat thy words. 
Thy speech is set afire; and thy servant loved it. 
I am young, and despised; I forgat not thy justifyings. 
Lord, thy rightfulness or rightwise-nessis rightfulness or rightwiseness without end; and thy law is truth. 
Tribulation and anguish have found me; thy behests is my thinking. 
Thy witnessings is equity without end; give thou understanding to me, and I shall live. 
Koph. I cried in all mine heart, Lord, hear thou me; I shall seek thy justifyings. 
I cried to thee, make thou me safe; that I keep thy commandments. 
I before came in ripeness, and I cried; I hoped above on thy words. 
Mine eyes before came to thee full early; that I should bethink on thy speeches. 
Lord, hear thou my voice by thy mercy; and quicken or enliven thou me by thy doom. 
They that pursue me nighed to wickedness; forsooth they be made far from thy law. 
Lord, thou art nigh; and all thy ways be truth. 
In the beginning I knew of thy witnessings; for thou hast founded those or them without end. 
Resh. See thou my meekness, and deliver thou me; for I forgat not thy law. 
Deem thou my doom, and again-buy thou me; quicken thou me for thy speech. 
Health is far from sinners; for they sought not thy justifyings. 
Lord, thy mercies be many; quicken thou me by thy doom. 
They be many that pursue me, and do tribulation to me; I bowed not away from thy witnessings. 
I saw breakers of the law, and I was melted, either languished; for they kept not thy speeches. 
Lord, see thou, for I loved thy commandments; quicken thou me in thy mercy. 
The beginning of thy word is truth; all the dooms of thy rightwise-ness be without end. 
Schin. Princes pursued me with-out cause; and my heart dreaded of thy words. 
I shall be glad on thy speeches; as he that findeth many spoils. 
I hated and loathed wickedness; forsooth I loved thy law. 
I said praisings to thee seven times in the day; on the dooms of thy rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
Much peace is to them that love thy law; and no cause of stumbling is to them. 
Lord, I abode thine health; and I loved thy behests. 
My soul kept thy witnessings; and loved those or them greatly. 
I kept thy commandments, and thy witnessings; for all my ways be in thy sight. 
Tau. Lord, my beseeching come nigh in thy sight; by thy speech give thou understanding to me. 
Mine asking enter into thy sight; by thy speech deliver thou me. 
My lips shall tell out an hymn; when thou hast taught me thy justi-fyings. 
My tongue shall pronounce thy speech; for why all thy command-ments be equity. 
Thine hand be made, that it save me; for I have chosen thy behests. 
Lord, I coveted thine health; and thy law is my thinking. 
My soul shall live, and it shall praise thee; and thy dooms shall help me. 
I erred as a sheep that perished; Lord, seek thy servant, for I forgat not thy commandments. 
