EXODUS.
Chapter 38.
He made also the altar of burnt sacrifice of the wood of shittim, of five cubits by square, and of three cubits in height; 
whose horns came forth out of the corners, and he covered it with plates of brass. 
And into the uses thereof he made ready of brass diverse vessels, caul-drons, tongs, fleshhooks, hooks, and firepans. 
He made also the brazen griddle thereof, in manner of a net, and a firepan under it, in the midst of the altar. 
And he melted out four rings, by so many ends of the griddle, to put in the bars for to bear it; 
and he made those same bars of the wood of shittim, and covered them with plates of brass. 
And he led them into the rings that stood forth in the sides of the altar. Forsooth that altar was not massive or solid, but hollow of the building of the boards, and void within. 
He made also a great washing vessel of brass, with his foundament, of the mirrors of brass of the women that watched in the great street of the tabernacle. 
And he made the great porch, or great entry, in whose south coast were the curtains of bis folded again, of an hundred cubits, 
twenty brazen pillars with their bases; the hooks of the pillars, and the holdings of those, were of silver; 
evenly at the north coast, the curtains, pillars, and bases, and the hooks of pillars, and the holdings of those, were of the same measure, and work, and metal. 
Forsooth in that coast that be-holdeth to the west were curtains of fifty cubits, ten brazen pillars with their bases; and the hooks of pillars, and the holdings of those, were of silver. 
Soothly against the east he made ready curtains of fifty cubits, 
of which curtains one side had fifteen cubits, of three pillars with their bases; 
and in the other side, for he made the entering of the tabernacle betwixt ever either, were curtains evenly of fifteen cubits, three pillars, and so many bases. 
Bis folded again covered all the curtains of the great entry. 
The bases of the pillars were of brass; forsooth the hooks of those pillars, and the holdings of those, were of silver; but also he covered with silver the heads of the pillars of the great entry. 
And in the entering thereof he made a curtain, by embroidery work, of jacinth, purple, vermilion, either red cloth, and of bis folded again, which curtain had twenty cubits in length, and the height was of five cubits, by the measure which all the curtains of the great entry had. 
Forsooth the pillars in the entering were four, with brazen bases, and the hooks of pillars, and the holdings of those, were of silver; 
and he made the brazen stakes of the tabernacle, and of the great entry, by compass. 
These be the numbers of the amounts of metals of the tabernacle of witnessing, that be numbered, by the commandment of Moses, in the ceremonies, that is, services, of Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron, the priest. 
Which instruments Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the lineage of Judah, fulfilled; for the Lord commanded by Moses, 
while Aholiab, the son of Ahisa-mach, of the lineage of Dan, was joined fellow to him, and he himself was a noble craftsman of wood, and a tapicer, that is, a weaver of diverse colours, and an embroiderer of jacinth, purple, vermilion, and bis. 
All the gold that was spended in the work of the saintuary, and that was offered in gifts, was of nine and twenty talents, and of seven hundred and thirty shekels, at the measure of the saintuary. 
Forsooth the silver of numbering of the people was an hundred hundreds, and a thousand and seven hundred and seventy and five shekels, at the weight of saintuary, 
half a shekel by each head of all that passed to be numbered, from twenty years and above, of six hundred thousand and three thousand, and five hundred and fifty men. 
Furthermore there were an hundred talents of silver, of which the bases of the saintuary were melted out alto-gether, and the bases of the entering, where the veil hangeth; an hundred bases were made of an hundred talents, for to each base was ordained a talent. 
Forsooth of a thousand seven hundred and seventy and five shekels, he made the hooks of the pillars, and covered the heads of the pillars with silver. 
Also of brass were offered two and seventy thousand talents, and four hundred shekels over. 
Of which the bases in the entering of the tabernacle of witnessing were melted out, and the brazen altar, with his griddle, and all the vessels that pertain to the use thereof, 
and the bases of the great entry, as well in the compass, as in the entering thereof, and the stakes of the tabernacle, and of the great entry by compass. 
