NUMBERS.
Chapter 33.
These be the dwellings of the sons of Israel, that went out of the land of Egypt, by their companies, in the hand of Moses and Aaron; 
which dwellings Moses described by the places of tents, that were changed by commandment of the Lord. 
Therefore the sons of Israel went forth in an high hand from Rameses, in the first month, in the fifteenth day of the first month, in the tother day of pask, that is, in the morrow of the offering of the lamb of pask, while all the Egyptians saw, 
and the Egyptians buried their first begotten children, which the Lord had slain; for the Lord took vengeance also upon their gods. 
The sons of Israel setted tents in Succoth, 
and from Succoth they came into Etham, which is in the last coasts of the wilderness; 
from thence they went forth, and came against Pihahiroth, which beholdeth Baalzephon, and setted tents before Migdol. 
And they went forth from Piha-hiroth, and they passed through the midst of the sea into wilderness, and they went three days by the desert of Etham, and setted tents in Marah. 
And they went forth from Marah, and came into Elim, where were twelve wells of water, and seventy palm trees; and there they setted tents. 
But also they went forth from thence, and setted tents on the Red Sea. 
And they went forth from the Red Sea, and setted tents in the desert of Sin, 
from whence they went forth, and came into Dophkah. 
And they went forth from Dophkah, and setted tents in Alush. 
And they went forth from Alush, and setted tents in Rephidim, where water failed to the people to drink. 
And they went forth from Rephidim, and setted tents in the desert of Sinai. 
But also they went out of the wilderness of Sinai, and came to the Sepulchres of Covetousness, or Lust. 
And they went forth from the Sepulchres of Covetousness, or Lust, and setted tents in Hazeroth. 
And from Hazeroth they came into Rithmah. 
And they went forth from Rithmah, and setted tents in Rimmonparez; 
from whence they went forth, and came into Libnah. 
And from Libnah they setted tents in Rissah. 
And they went forth from Rissah, and came into Kehelathah; 
from whence they went forth, and setted tents in the hill of Shapher. 
And they went forth from the hill of Shapher, and they came into Haradah; 
from thence they went forth, and setted tents in Makheloth. 
And they went forth from Makheloth, and came into Tahath. 
From Tahath they setted tents in Tarah; 
from whence they went forth, and setted tents in Mithcah. 
And from Mithcah they setted tents in Hashmonah. 
And they went forth from Hash-monah, and came into Moseroth; 
and from Moseroth they setted tents in Benejaakan. 
And they went forth from Bene-jaakan, and came into the hill of Gidgad; 
from whence they went forth, and setted tents in Jotbathah. 
And from Jotbathah they came into Ebronah. 
And they went forth from Ebronah, and setted tents in Eziongaber; 
from thence they went forth, and came into the desert of Zin; this is Kadesh. 
And they went forth from Kadesh, and they setted tents in the hill of Hor, in the last coasts of the land of Edom. 
And Aaron, the priest, ascended or went up into the hill of Hor, for the Lord commanded, and there he was dead, in the fortieth year of the going out of the sons of Israel from Egypt, in the fifth month, in the first day of the month; 
when he was of an hundred and three and twenty years old. 
And the Canaanite, the king of Arad, that dwelled at the south, in the land of Canaan, heard that the sons of Israel came thither. 
And they went forth from the hill of Hor, and setted tents in Zalmonah; 
from thence they went forth, and came into Punon. 
And they went forth from Punon, and setted tents in Oboth. 
And from Oboth they came into Iyeabarim, that is, into the wilderness of Abarim, which is in the ends of Moabites. 
And they went forth from Iyea-barim, and they setted tents in Dibon of Gad; 
from whence they went forth, and setted tents in Almon of Diblathaim, 
And they went forth from Almon of Diblathaim, and they came to the hills of Abarim, against Nebo. 
And they went forth from the hills of Abarim, and passed to the field places of Moab, over Jordan, against Jericho. 
And there they setted tents, from Bethjesimoth till to Abelshittim, in the plainer places of Moabites, 
where the Lord spake to Moses, 
Command thou to the sons of Israel, and say thou to them, When ye have passed over Jordan, and have entered into the land of Canaan, 
destroy ye all the dwellers of that country; break ye the titles, that is, altars, and drive ye to powder the images, and destroy ye all high things, 
and cleanse ye the land, and all the men dwelling therein. For I have given to you that land into possession, 
which ye shall part to you by lot; to more men in number ye shall give larger land, and to fewer men in number straiter, or less, land, as the lot falleth to all men, so the heritage shall be given; the possession shall be parted to lineages and meines. 
But if ye will not slay the dwellers of the land, they, that abide, shall be to you as nails in the eyes, and as spears in the sides; and they shall be adversaries to you in the land of your habitation; 
and whatever thing I thought to do to them, I shall do to you. 
