PSALMS.
Chapter 105.
Alleluia. Acknowledge ye to the Lord, and inwardly call ye his name; tell ye his works among heathen men. 
Sing ye to him, and say ye psalm to him, and tell ye all his marvels; 
be ye praised in his holy name. The heart of men seeking the Lord be glad; 
seek ye the Lord, and be ye con-firmed; seek ye evermore his face. 
Have ye mind on his marvels, which he did; on his great wonders, and dooms of his mouth. 
The seed of Abraham, his servant; the sons of Jacob, his chosen man. 
He is our Lord God; his dooms be in all the earth. 
He was mindful of his testament into the world; of the word which he commanded into a thousand gener-ations. 
Which he disposed to Abraham; and of his oath to Isaac. 
And he ordained it to Jacob into a commandment; and to Israel into everlasting testament. 
And he said, I shall give to thee the land of Canaan; the cord of your heritage. 
When they were in a little number; and the comelings of them were full few. 
And they passed from folk into folk; and from a realm into another people. 
He left not a man to annoy them; and he chastised kings for them. 
Saying, Do not ye touch my christs; and do not ye do wickedly among my prophets. 
And God called hunger on earth; and he wasted all the steadfastness of bread. 
He sent a man before them; Joseph was sold into a servant. 
They made low his feet in fetters, iron passed by or through his soul; 
till the word of him came. The speech of the Lord enflamed him; 
the king sent and unbound him; the prince of peoples sent and delivered him. 
He ordained him lord of his house; and prince of all his possessions. 
That he should learn or teach his princes as himself; and that he should teach his eld or old men prudence. 
And Israel entered into Egypt; and Jacob was a comeling in the land of Ham. 
And God increased his people greatly; and made them steadfast on his enemies. 
He turned the heart of them, that they hated his people; and did guile or treachery against his servants. 
He sent Moses, his servant; and that Aaron, whom he chose. 
He putted or put in them to tell and to do the words of his miracles; and of his great wonders in the land of Ham. 
He sent darknesses, and made it dark; and he made not bitter his words. 
He turned the waters of them into blood; and he killed the fishes of them. 
And the land of them gave pad-docks; in the privy places of the kings of them. 
God said, and a flesh fly or hound flea came; and gnats in all the coasts of them. 
He setted or put their rains into hail; fire burning in the land of them. 
And he smote the vines of them, and the fig trees of them; and all-brake the trees of the coasts of them. 
He said, and the locust came; and a bruchus of which there was no number. 
And it ate all the hay in the land of them; and it ate all the fruit of the land of them. 
And he killed each the first engen-dered thing in the land of them; the first fruits of all the travail of them. 
And he led out them with silver and gold; and none was sick in the lineages of them. 
Egypt was glad in the going out of them; for the dread of them lay on Egyptians. 
He spreaded abroad a cloud, into the covering of them; and fire, that it shined to them by night. 
They asked, and a curlew came; and he ful filled them with the bread of heaven. 
He brake the stone, and waters flowed; floods went forth in the dry place. 
For he was mindful of his holy word; which he had to Abraham, his servant. 
And he led out his people in full out joying; and his chosen men in gladness. 
And he gave to them the countries of heathen men; and they had in possession the travails of peoples. 
That they keep his justifyings; and keep his law. 
