2ND KI.
Chapter 15.
In the seven and twentieth year of Jeroboam II, king of Israel, Azariah, the son of Amaziah, king of Judah, reigned; 
he was of sixteen years, when he began to reign, and he reigned two and fifty years in Jerusalem; the name of his mother was Jecoliah of Jerusalem. 
And he did that, that was pleasant before the Lord, by all things that Amaziah, his father, had done; 
nevertheless he destroyed not the high things; yet the people made sacrifice, and burnt incense in high things. 
Forsooth the Lord smote the king, and he was leprous till into the day of his death; and he dwelled in an house freely by himself. Soothly Jotham, the son of the king, governed the palace, and deemed the people of the land. 
Forsooth the residue of the words of Azariah, and all things that he did, whether these be not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah? 
And Azariah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his elder men in the city of David; and Jotham, his son, reigned for him. 
In the eight and thirtieth year of Azariah, king of Judah, Zechariah, the son of Jeroboam, reigned upon Israel in Samaria six months. 
And he did that, that was evil before the Lord, as his fathers did; he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, that made Israel to do sin. 
Forsooth Shallum, the son of Jabesh, conspired against him in Samaria; and Shallum smote him before the people, and killed him, and reigned for him. 
And the residue of the words of Zechariah, whether these be not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel? 
This is the word of the Lord, which he spake to Jehu, and said, Thy sons till to the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of thee of Israel; and it was done so. 
Shallum, the son of Jabesh, reigned in the ninth and thirty year of Azariah, king of Judah; soothly he reigned one month in Samaria. 
And Menahem, the son of Gadi, went up from Tirzah, and came into Samaria; and he smote Shallum, the son of Jabesh, in Samaria, and killed him, and reigned for him. 
Soothly the residue of the words of Shallum, and his conspiracy, by which he setted treasons, whether these be not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel. 
Then Menahem smote the city Tiphsah, and all the men that were therein, and the terms thereof from Tirzah, for they would not open their gates to him; and he killed all the women thereof with child, and carved them. 
In the nine and thirtieth year of Azariah, king of Judah, Menahem, the son of Gadi, reigned upon Israel ten years in Samaria. 
And he did that, that was evil before the Lord; he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, that made Israel to do sin. 
In all the days of him, Pul, the king of Assyria, came into Tirzah. And Menahem gave to Pul a thousand talents of silver, that he should be to him into help, and should make steadfast his realm; 
and Menahem setted tollage of silver on Israel, to all the mighty men and rich, that he would give to the king of Assyria; he setted fifty shekels of silver to one man, that is, to each man; and the king of Assyria turned again, and dwelled not in Tirzah. 
Forsooth the residue of the words of Menahem, and all things that he did, whether these be not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel? 
And Menahem slept with his fathers; and Pekahiah, his son, reigned for him. 
In the fiftieth year of Azariah, king of Judah, Pekahiah, the son of Menahem, reigned on Israel in Samaria two years. 
And he did that, that was evil before the Lord; he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, that made Israel to do sin. 
Forsooth Pekah, the son of Re-maliah, a duke of his host, conspired against him, and smote him in Samaria, in the tower of the king’s house, that is, the palace, besides Argob, and besides Arieh; and he smote him with fifty men of the sons of Gileadites; and Pekah killed him, and reigned for him. 
Soothly the residue of the words of Pekahiah, and all things that he did, whether these be not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel? 
In the two and fiftieth year of Azariah, king of Judah, Pekah, the son of Remaliah, reigned upon Israel in Samaria twenty years. 
And he did that, that was evil before the Lord; he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, that made Israel to do sin. 
In the days of Pekah, king of Israel, Tiglathpileser, king of Assur, came, and took Ijon, and Abel, the house of Maachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, and all the land of Naphtali; and translated or brought them over into Assyrians. 
Forsooth Hoshea, the son of Elah, conspired, and set treasons against Pekah, the son of Remaliah, and smote him, and killed him; and he reigned for him, in the twentieth year of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, that is, the son of Azariah. 
Forsooth the residue of the words of Pekah, and all things that he did, whether these be not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Israel? 
In the second year of Pekah, the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, reigned; 
he was of five and twenty years, when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem; the name of his mother was Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok. 
And he did that, that was pleasant before the Lord; he wrought by all things, that his father Uzziah had done; 
nevertheless he did not away the high things; yet the people made sacrifice, and burnt incense in high things; he builded the highest gate of the house of the Lord. 
Forsooth the residue of the words of Jotham, and all things that he did, whether these be not written in the book of the words of the days of the kings of Judah? 
In those days the Lord began to send into Judah Rezin, the king of Syria, and Pekah, the son of Remaliah. 
And Jotham slept with his fathers, and was buried with them in the city of David, his father; and Ahaz, his son, reigned for him. 
