JOB.
Chapter 5.
Therefore, Job, call thou, if there is any man that shall answer thee, and turn thou to some of the saints. 
Wrathfulness slayeth a fond or foolish man, and envy slayeth a little child. 
I saw a fool with a steadfast root, and I cursed his fairness anon. 
His sons shall be made far from health, and they shall be defouled in the gate, and there shall be none that shall deliver them. 
Whose ripe corn an hungry man shall eat, and an armed man shall ravish him, and they, that thirst, shall drink his riches. 
Nothing is done in the earth with-out cause, and sorrow shall not go out of the earth, that is, adversity befalleth not to any man without cause. 
A man is born to labour, and a bird to flight. 
Wherefore I shall beseech the Lord, and I shall set or put my speech to my God. 
That maketh great things, and that may not be sought out, and wonder-ful things without number. 
The which God giveth rain upon the face of the earth, and moisteth all things with waters. 
Which setteth meek men on high, and raiseth with health them that mourn. 
Which destroyeth the thoughts of evil-willed men, that their hands may not fulfill those things that they have begun. 
Which taketh sly cautelous men in their own fellness, and he destroyeth the counsel of shrews or the depraved. 
By day they shall run into dark-nesses, and as in night, so they shall grope in midday. 
Certainly God shall make safe a needy man from the sword of their mouth, and a poor man from the hand of the violent, either raveners. 
And hope shall be to a needy man, but wickedness shall draw together his mouth. 
Blessed is the man, which is chastised of the Lord; therefore reprove thou not the blaming of the Lord. 
For he woundeth, and doeth medicine; he smiteth, and his hands shall make whole. 
In six tribulations he shall deliver thee, and in the seventh tribulation evil shall not touch thee. 
In hunger he shall deliver thee from death, and in battle from the power of sword. 
Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of an evil tongue, and thou shalt not dread mis-ease, either wretchedness, when it cometh. 
In destroying made of enemies and in hunger thou shalt laugh, and thou shalt not dread the beasts of the earth. 
But thy covenant shall be with the stones of earth, and beasts of earth shall be peaceable to thee. 
And thou shalt know, that thy tabernacle hath peace, and thou visiting thy fairness, that is, beholding thy prosperity, shalt not sin. 
And thou shalt know also, that thy seed shall be manyfold, and thy generation shall be as an herb of the earth. 
In abundance of years thou shalt go into the sepulchre, as an heap of wheat is borne in in his time. 
Lo! this thing is so, as we have sought; the which thing when thou hast heard, treat it in thy mind. 
