ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 36.
God of all things, have thou mercy on us; and behold thou us, and show to us the light of thy merciful doings. 
And send thy dread on heathen men or Gentiles, that sought not thee, that they know that no God is or there is not God, no but thou; that they tell out thy great deeds. 
Raise thine hand on heathen men aliens, that they see thy power. Rear up thine hand upon alien folks, that they see thy might. 
For as thou were hallowed in us in the sight of them, so in our sight thou shalt be magnified in them; 
that they know thee, as and we have known, that none other is God, except thee, Lord. that they know thee, as we have known, for there is none other God, save thee, Lord. 
Make thou new signs, and change thou marvels; glorify the hand, and the right arm. 
Raise thou strong vengeance, and shed out ire or Rear up madness, and pour out wrath; take away the adver-sary, and torment the enemy. 
Haste thou the time, and have thou mind on the end, that they tell out thy marvels. 
And he that is saved, be devoured in the ire of flame; and they that treat worst thy people, find perdition. 
All-break thou the heads of princes, and of enemies, saying, None other is or There is none other, except us. 
Gather thou together all the lineages of Jacob, and know they that no God is, no but thou or know they for there is no God but thou, that they tell out thy great deeds; and thou shalt inherit them, as at the begin-ning. 
Have thou mercy on thy people, on which thy name is called into help; and on Israel, whom thou madest even to thy first engendered son or to thy first begotten. 
Have thou mercy on Jerusalem, the city of thine hallowing, on the city of thy rest. 
Fill thou Zion with thy virtues, that may not be told out, and fill thy people with thy glory. Full-fill Zion with thine untellable virtues, and thy people with thy glory. 
Give thou witnessing, that at or from the beginning they were thy creatures; and raise thou prayers, which the former prophets spake in thy name. 
Lord, give thou meed to them that abide thee, that thy prophets be found true or faithful; 
and hear thou the prayer of thy servants. After the blessing of Aaron give thou to thy people, and dress thou us into the way of rightfulness or right rule us into the way of rightwiseness; that all men know, that dwell in earth, that thou art God, the beholder of worlds. 
The womb shall eat all meats, and one meat is better than another meat. 
Cheeks touch meat almost, and an unwise heart receiveth false or leasing words. 
A shrewd heart shall give heavi-ness, and a wise man shall against-stand or withstand it. 
A woman shall take each knave or male child, and a daughter is better than a son or there is a daughter better than the son. 
The fairness of a woman maketh glad the face of her husband, and she shall bring desire for herself over all the covetousness or lust of her man. 
If there is a tongue of healing or curing, there is also of assuaging, and of mercy; the husband of her is not after the sons of men. 
He that hath in possession a good woman, beginneth possession; she is an help like him, and a pillar as rest. 
Where an hedge is not, the possession shall be ravished away or broken; and where a woman is not, a needy man waileth. 
To whom believeth he that hath no nest, and boweth down wherever it is dark, as a thief girt or girded up, skipping out from city into city? 
