NUMBERS.
Chapter 30.
And he spake to the princes of the lineages of the sons of Israel, This is the word, which the Lord commanded, 
If any of men maketh a vow to the Lord, either bindeth himself by an oath, he shall not make void, or false, his word, but he shall fulfill all thing that he promised. 
If a woman that is in the house of her father, and is yet in the age of a young damsel, avoweth anything, either bindeth herself by an oath, 
her father knoweth the avow or vow, that she promised, and the oath, by which she bound her soul, and he is still, she shall be guilty of that oath, if she break it; whatever thing she promised, and swore, she shall fulfill in work. 
Forsooth if her father against-said, anon as he heard, both the vows, and her oaths shall be void, and she shall not be holden bound to the promise, for her father against-said it. 
If she hath an husband, and she avoweth anything, and a word going out of her mouth, at once bindeth her soul with an oath, 
in what day her husband heareth this, and against-saith it not, she shall be guilty, or bound, to that vow; she shall yield, whatever thing she promised. 
But if the husband heareth it, and anon against-saith, and maketh void all her promises, and words by which she bound her soul, the Lord shall be merciful to her. 
A widow, and a woman forsaken of her husband, shall yield, whatever thing they avow. 
When a wife in her husband’s house bindeth herself by a vow, and an oath, 
if her husband heareth it, and is still, and against-saith not her promise, she shall yield, whatever thing she promised. 
Soothly if the husband against-said anon, she shall not be holden guilty of the promise, for her husband against-said it anon, and the Lord shall be merciful to her. 
If she avoweth, and bindeth herself by an oath, that she torment her soul by fasting, either by abstinence of other things, it shall be in the doom of her husband, that she do that, either do it not. 
That if the husband heareth it, and he is still, and delayeth the sentence into the tother day, she shall yield whatever thing she avowed and promised, for he was still, anon as he heard. 
Soothly if her husband against-said her avow, and her oath, after that he knew thereof, he shall bear his wickedness. 
These be the laws, which the Lord ordained to Moses, betwixt the husband and the wife, betwixt the father and the daughter, which is yet in the age of a young damsel, or that yet dwelleth in her father’s house unmarried. 
