DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 5.
And Moses called all Israel, and said to him, Hear, thou Israel, the ceremonies and dooms, which I speak today in your ears; learn ye them, and fulfilleth in deed. 
Our Lord God made a bond of peace with us in Horeb; 
he made not covenant with our fathers, but with us that be present, and live. 
Face to face he spake to us in the hill, from the midst of the fire. 
I was reconciler and a mediator betwixt God and you in that time, that I should tell to you his words, for ye dreaded the fire, and ye went not up into the hill. And he said, 
I am thy Lord God, that led thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of servage. 
Thou shalt not have alien Gods in my sight. 
Thou shalt not make to thee a graven image, neither a likeness of all things that be in heaven above, and that be in earth beneath, and that be in waters under earth; 
thou shalt not praise them, nor worship them; for I am thy Lord God, a jealous God; and I yield the wickedness of fathers into the sons, into the third and the fourth generation to them that hate me, 
and I do mercy into many thousands to them that love me, and keep my behests. 
Thou shalt not mistake the name of thy Lord God in vain, for he shall not be unpunished, that taketh the name of God in a vain thing. 
Keep thou the sabbath day that thou hallow it, as thy Lord God commanded to thee. 
In six days thou shalt work, and do all thy works; 
the seventh day is the day of sabbath, that is, the rest of thy Lord God. Thou shalt not do therein anything of work; thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, thy servant, and thine handmaid, and thine ox, and thine ass, and all thy work beasts, and the pilgrim that is within thy gates; that thy servant rest and thine hand-maid, as also thou. 
Have mind, that also thyself servedest in Egypt, and thy Lord God led thee out from thence, in a strong hand, and in an arm stretched forth; therefore he commanded to thee, that thou shouldest keep the sabbath day. 
Honour thy father and thy mother, as thy Lord God commanded to thee, that thou live in long time, and that it be well to thee, in the land which thy Lord God shall give to thee. 
Thou shalt not slay. 
Thou shalt not do lechery. 
Thou shalt not do theft. 
Thou shalt not speak false witness-ing against thy neighbour. 
Thou shalt not covet thy neigh-bour’s wife, nor his house, nor his field, nor his servant, nor his hand-maid, nor his ox, nor ass, and all things, that is, nothing of all the things, that be his. 
The Lord spake these words to all your multitude, in the hill, from the midst of the fire, and of the cloud, and of the mist, with great voice, and he added to nothing more; and he wrote those words in two tables of stone, which he gave to me. 
And after that ye heard the voice from the midst of the darknesses, and ye saw the hill burn, all ye princes of the lineages, and the greater men in birth, nighed to me, 
and ye said, Lo! our Lord God hath showed to us his majesty and greatness; we heard his voice from the midst of the fire, and we have proved today that a man liveth, God speaking with man. 
Why therefore shall we die, and shall this greatest fire devour us? For if we hear more the voice of our Lord God, we shall die. 
What is each man, that he hear the voice of God living, that speaketh from the midst of the fire, as we have heard, and that he may live? 
Rather nigh thou, and hear thou all things which our Lord God shall say to thee; and thou shalt speak to us, and we shall hear, and do those words. 
And when the Lord had heard this, he said to me, I have heard the voice of the words of this people, which they have spoken to thee; they have spoken well all things. 
Who shall give that they have such soul, that they dread me, and keep all my commandments in all time, that it be well to them, and to the sons of them, without end? 
Go thou, and say to them, Turn ye again into your tents. 
Soothly stand thou here with me, and I shall speak to thee all the commandments, and ceremonies, and dooms, which thou shalt teach them, that they do those or them in the land which I shall give to them into possession. 
Therefore keep ye, and do ye those things, which the Lord God hath commanded to you; ye shall not bow away, neither to the right side, nor to the left side, 
but ye shall go by the way which your Lord God commanded, that ye live, and that it be well to you, and that your days be lengthened in the land of your possession. 
