ISAIAH.
Chapter 43.
And now the Lord God, making of nought thee, Jacob, and forming thee, Israel, saith these things, Do not thou dread, for I again-bought thee, and I called thee by thy name; thou art my servant. 
When thou shalt go by waters, I shall be with thee, and floods shall not cover thee; when thou shalt go in fire, thou shalt not be burnt, and flame shall not burn in thee. 
For I am thy Lord God, the Holy of Israel, thy saviour. I gave thy mercy Egypt; Ethiopia, and Seba, for thee. 
Since thou art made honourable, and glorious in mine eyes; I loved thee, and I shall give men for thee, and peoples for thy soul. 
Do not thou dread, for I am with thee; I shall bring thy seed from the east, and I shall gather thee together from the west. 
I shall say to the north, Give thou, and to the south, Do not thou forbid; bring thou my sons from afar, and my daughters from the last parts of the earth. 
And each that calleth my name to help, into my glory I made him of nought; I formed him, and made him. 
Lead thou forth the blind people, and having eyes; the deaf people, and ears be to it. 
All heathen men be gathered together, and lineages be gathered together. Who among you, who shall tell this, and shall make you to hear those things, that be the first? give they the witnesses of them, and be they justified, and hear they, and say. 
Verily ye be my witnesses, saith the Lord, and my servants, whom I chose; that ye know, and believe to me, and understand, for I myself am; before me is no God former or before me is not formed God, and after me shall none be. 
I am, I am the Lord, and without me is no Saviour or and there is not without me a saviour. 
I told, and saved; I made hearing, and none alien God was among you. Ye be my witnesses, saith the Lord; and I am God, 
from the beginning, I myself am, and none there is that delivereth from mine hand; I shall work, and who shall destroy it? 
The Lord, your again-buyer, the Holy of Israel, saith these things, For you I sent out into Babylon, and I drew down all the bars, and the Chaldees having glory in their ships. 
I am the Lord, your Holy, your king, making Israel of nought. 
The Lord saith these things, that gave a way in the sea, and a path in running waters; 
which led out a cart, and horse, a company, and strong man; they slept together, neither they shall rise again; they be all-broken as flax, and be quenched. 
Think ye not on the former things, and behold ye not old things. 
Lo! I make new things, and now those shall begin to be made; soothly ye shall know them. I shall set a way in desert, and floods in a land without a way. 
And a beast of the field shall glorify me, dragons and ostriches shall glorify me; for I gave waters in desert, and floods in the land without a way, that I should give drink to my people, to my chosen people. 
I formed this people to me, it shall tell my praising. 
Jacob, thou calledest not me to help; and thou, Israel, travailedest not for me. 
Thou offeredest not to me the ram of thy burnt sacrifice, and thou glorifiedest not me with thy slain sacrifices. I made not thee to serve in offering, neither I gave to thee travail in incense. 
Thou boughtest not to me sweet smelling spicery for silver, and thou filledest not me with the fatness of thy slain sacrifices; nevertheless thou madest me to serve in thy sins, thou gavest travail to me in thy wicked-nesses. 
I am, I myself am, that do away thy wickednesses for me, and I shall not have mind on thy sins. 
Bring me again into mind, and be we deemed together; tell thou, if thou hast anything, that thou be justified. 
Thy first father sinned, and thine interpreters trespassed against me. 
And I made foul holy princes, and I gave Jacob to death, and Israel into blasphemy. 
