JOB.
Chapter 27.
Also Job added, taking his parable, and said, 
God liveth, that hath taken away my doom, and Almighty God, that hath brought my soul to bitterness. 
For as long as breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my nostrils, 
my lips shall not speak wicked-ness, neither my tongue shall think a leasing. 
Far be it from me, that I deem you just or rightwise; till I fail, that is, as long as I live, I shall not go away from mine innocence. 
I shall not forsake my justifying, which I began to hold; for mine heart reproveth me not in all my life. 
As my wicked enemy doeth; mine adversary is as wicked. 
For what is the hope of an hypocrite, if he ravisheth greedily, and God delivereth not his soul? 
Whether God shall hear the cry of him, when anguish shall come upon him? 
either whether he may delight in Almighty God, and inwardly call God in all time? 
I shall teach you by the hand of God, what things Almighty God hath; and I shall not hide them. 
Lo! all ye know, and what then speak ye vain things without cause? 
This is the part of a wicked man with God, and the heritage of violent men, or raveners, which they shall take of Almighty God. 
If his children be multiplied, they shall be killed with sword; and his sons shall not be ful filled with bread. 
They, that be residue of him, shall be buried in perishing; and the widows of him shall not weep. 
If he gathereth together silver as earth, and maketh ready clothes as clay; 
soothly he made these things ready, but a just or rightwise man shall be clothed in those things, and an innocent man shall part the silver. 
As a moth he hath builded his house, and as a keeper he made a shadowing place. 
A rich man, when he shall die, shall bear nothing with him; he shall open his eyes, and he shall find nothing. 
Poverty as water shall take him; and tempest shall oppress him in the night. 
Burning wind shall take him, and it shall do him away; and as a whirl-wind it shall ravish him from his place. 
The Lord shall send out torments upon him, and shall not spare; he fleeing shall flee from his hand. 
He shall constrain his hands on him, and he shall hiss on him, and shall behold his place. 
