JOB.
Chapter 6.
And Job answered, and said, 
I would, that my sins, by which I have deserved the wrath of God, and the wretchedness which I suffer, were weighed in a balance. 
As the gravel of the sea, this wretchedness should appear more grievous; wherefore and my words be full of sorrow. 
For the arrows of the Lord be in me, the indignation of which drinketh up my spirit; and the dreads of the Lord fight against me. 
Whether a field ass shall roar, when he hath grass? Either whether an ox shall low, when he standeth before a full cratch? 
Either whether a thing unsavory may be eaten, which is not made savory by salt? Either whether any man may taste a thing, which tasted bringeth death? For why to an hungry soul, yea, bitter things seem to be sweet; 
those things which my soul would not touch before, be now my meats for anguish. 
Who giveth, or granteth, that mine asking come to me; and that God give to me that thing, that I abide? 
And he that hath begun to punish, all-break he me; loose he his hand, and cut he me down? 
And this be comfort to me, that he torment me with sorrow, and spare not, and that I against-say not the words of the Holy. 
For what is my strength, that I suffer? either which is mine end, that I suffer it patiently? 
Neither my strength is the strength of stones, neither my flesh is of brass. 
Lo! none help is to me in me; and also my necessary friends parted from me. 
He that taketh away mercy from his friend, forsaketh the dread of the Lord. 
My brethren passed from me, as a strand or streamdoeth, that passeth by rushingly in great valleys. 
Snow shall come upon them, that dread frost. 
In the time wherein they be scattered, they shall perish; and when they shall wax hot, they shall be loosed from their place. 
The paths of their steps be enwrapped; they shall go in vain, and shall perish. 
Behold ye the paths of Tema, and the ways of Sheba; and abide ye a little. 
They be shamed, for I hoped; and they came unto me, and they be covered with shame. 
Now ye be come, and now ye see my wound, and dread. 
Whether I said, Bring ye to me, and give ye of your chattel to me? 
either said, Deliver ye me from the hand of mine enemy, and draw away ye me from the hand of strong men? 
Teach ye me, and I shall be still; and if in hap I unknew anything, teach ye me. 
Why have ye contraried the words of truth? since there is none of you, that may reprove me. 
Ye make ready speeches only for to blame, and ye bring forth words into wind. 
Ye fall in on a fatherless child, and endeavour to pervert your friend. 
Nevertheless fulfill ye that, that ye have begun; and give ye your ear, or hearing, and see ye, whether I lie. 
I beseech you, answer ye me with-out strife, and speak ye, and deem ye that, that is just or rightwise. 
And ye shall not find wickedness in my tongue, neither folly shall sound in my cheeks. 
