JUDE.
Chapter 1.
Judas, the servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, to these that be loved, that be in God the Father, and to them that be called and kept of Jesus Christ, 
mercy, and peace, and charity be full-filled to you. 
Most dear brethren, I doing all busyness to write to you of your common health, had need to write to you, and pray to strive strongly for the faith that is once taken to saints. 
For some unfaithful men privily entered, that sometime were before-written into this doom, and overturn the grace of our God into lechery, and deny him that is only a Lord, our Lord Jesus Christ. 
But I will admonish you once, that know all things, that Jesus saved his people from the land of Egypt, and the second time lost them that believed not. 
And he reserved under darkness angels, that kept not their prince-hood, but forsook their house, into the doom of the great God, into everlasting bonds. 
As Sodom, and Gomorrah, and the nigh coasted cities, that in like manner did fornication, and went away after other flesh, and be made ensample, suffering pain of everlasting fire. 
In like manner also these that defoul the flesh, and despise lordship, and blaspheme majesty. 
When Michael, the archangel, disputed with the devil, and strove of Moses’ body, he was not hardy to bring in doom of blasphemy, but said, The Lord command to thee. 
But these men blaspheme, what-ever things they know not. For what-ever things they know kindly as dumb beasts, in these they be corrupt. 
Woe to them that went the way of Cain, and that be shed out by error of Balaam for meed, and perished in the gainsaying of Core. 
These be in their meats, feasting together to filth, without dread feeding themselves. These be clouds without water, that be borne about of winds; harvest trees without fruit, twice dead, drawn up by the root; 
waves of the mad sea, foaming out their confusions, or waves of the wild sea, frothing out their confusions; erring stars, to which the tempest of darknesses is kept into without end. 
But Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, and said, Lo! the Lord cometh with his holy thousands, 
to do doom against all men, and to reprove all unfaithful men of all the works of the wickedness of them, by which they did wickedly, and of all the hard words, that wicked sinners have spoken against God. 
These be grutchers full of com-plaints, wandering after their desires; and the mouth of them speaketh pride, worshipping persons, because of winning. 
And ye, most dear brethren, be mindful of the words which be before-said of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ; 
which said to you, that in the last times there shall come beguilers or scorners, wandering after their own desires, not in piety. 
These be, which separate them-selves, beastly men, not having Spirit. 
But ye, most dear brethren, above build yourselves on your most holy faith, and pray ye in the Holy Ghost, 
and keep yourselves in the love of God, and abide ye the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ into life ever-lasting. 
And reprove ye these men that be deemed, 
but save ye them, and take ye or ravish them from the fire. And do ye mercy to other men, in the dread of God, and hate ye also that defouled coat, which is fleshly. 
But to him that is mighty to keep you without sin, and to ordain before the sight of his glory you unwemmed, in full out joy, 
in the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, to God alone our Saviour, by Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, and magnifying, empire, and power, before all worlds, and now, and into all worlds of worlds. Amen. 
