LEVITICUS.
Chapter 7.
And this is the law of sacrifice for trespass; it is holy of holy things. 
Therefore where burnt sacrifice is offered, also the sacrifice for trespass shall be slain; the blood thereof shall be shed or poured by compass of the altar. 
They shall offer the tail thereof, and the fatness that covereth the entrails, 
the two little reins, and the fatness which is beside the ileum, and the caul of the maw, with the little reins. 
And the priest shall burn those or them on the altar; it is incense of the Lord, for trespass. 
Each male of the priests’ kin shall eat these fleshes in the holy place, for it is holy of holy things. 
As a sacrifice is offered for sin, so and for trespass, one law shall be of ever either sacrifice; it shall pertain to the priest, that offereth it. 
The priest that offereth the beast of burnt sacrifice shall have the skin thereof. 
And each sacrifice of triedwheat flour, that is baked in an oven, and whatever is made ready in a griddle, either in a frying pan, it shall be that priest’s, of whom it is offered, 
whether it is sprinkled with oil, either dry. To all the sons of Aaron even measure shall be parted, to each one by themselves. 
This is the law of the sacrifice of peaceable things, which is offered to the Lord. 
If the offering is for the doing of thankings, they shall offer loaves without sourdough sprinkled with oil, and thin therf cakes, that be anointed with oil; and they shall offertriedwheat flour baked, and little round loaves, sprinkled altogether with the meddling or mingling of oil. 
Also they shall offer loaves dighted with sourdough, with the sacrifice of thankings which is offered for peace-able things; 
of all one loaf shall be offered to the Lord for the first fruits, and it shall be the priest’s that shall pour the blood of the sacrifice, 
whose flesh shall be eaten in the same day, neither anything of those shall dwell till the morrowtide. 
If a man offereth a sacrifice by a vow, either by free will, it shall be eaten in like manner in the same day; but also if anything dwelleth into the morrow, it is leaveful to eat it; 
soothly the fire shall waste what-ever thing the third day shall find. 
If any man eateth in the third day of the flesh of the sacrifice of peaceable things, his offering shall be made void, neither it shall profit to the offerer; but rather, whatever soul defouleth himself with such meat, he shall be guilty of breaking of the law. 
The Flesh that toucheth any unclean thing shall not be eaten, but it shall be burnt by fire; he that is clean, shall eat it. 
A polluted soul, that is, a defouled man, that eateth of the flesh of the sacrifice of peaceable things, which is offered to the Lord, shall perish from his peoples. 
And he that toucheth the uncleanness of man, either of beast, either of all thing that may defoul, and eateth of such fleshes, shall perish from his peoples. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, Ye shall not eat the inner fatness of a sheep, of an ox, and of a goat; 
ye shall have into diverse uses the inner fatness of a carcass dead by itself, and of that beast which is taken, or slain, of a ravenous beast. 
If any man eateth the inner fatness, that oweth to be offered into incense to the Lord, he shall perish from his people. 
Also ye shall not take in meat the blood of any beast, as well of birds, as of beasts; 
each man that eateth blood shall perish from his peoples. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, He that offereth a sacrifice of peaceable things to the Lord, offer he together also a sacrifice, that is, the flowing offerings thereof. 
He shall hold in his hands the inner fatness of the sacrifice, and the breast; and when he hath hallowed both these offered to the Lord, he shall take them to the priest, 
the which shall burn the inner fatness upon the altar; soothly the breast shall be Aaron’s and his sons’; 
and the right shoulder of the sacrifices of peaceable things shall turn into the first fruits of the priest. 
He that of Aaron’s sons offereth the blood, and the inner fatness, shall have also the right shoulder in his portion. 
For I have taken from the sons of Israel the breast of raising, and the shoulder of separating, of their peace-able sacrifices, and I have given those to Aaron the priest and to his sons, by everlasting law, of all the people of Israel. 
This is the anointing of Aaron, and of his sons, that is, the offering in the day of their anointing, in the ceremonies of the Lord, in the day wherein Moses offered them, that they should be set in priesthood, 
and which things the Lord commanded to be given to them of the sons of Israel, by everlasting or perpetual religion in their generations. 
This is the law of burnt sacrifice, and of sacrifice for sin, and for trespass, and for hallowing, and for the sacrifices of peaceable things; 
which law the Lord ordained to Moses in the hill of Sinai, when he commanded to the sons of Israel that they should offer their offerings to the Lord, in the desert of Sinai. 
