DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 17.
Thou shalt not offer to thy Lord God an ox and a sheep in which is a wem, either anything of vice or reproof, for it is abomination to thy Lord God. 
And when a man either a woman, that do evil in the sight of thy Lord God, be found with thee, within one of thy gates which thy Lord God shall give to thee, and they break the covenant of God, 
that they go and serve alien gods, and worship them, the sun, and the moon, and all the knighthood of heaven, which things I commanded not; 
and this is told to thee, and thou hearest it, and inquirest diligently, and thou findest that it is sooth, and that abomination is done in Israel; 
thou shalt lead out the man and the woman, that did that most cursed thing, to the gates of thy city, and they shall be oppressed with stones. 
He that shall be slain, shall perish in the mouth of twain or two, either of three witnesses; no man be slain, for one man saith witnessing against him. 
The hand of the witnesses shall first slay him, and at the last the hand of the other people shall be put to, for to throw him down with stones, that thou do away evil from the midst of thee. 
If thou perceivest, that hard and doubtful doom is with thee, betwixt blood and blood, cause and cause, leprosy and not leprosy, and thou seest that the words of the judges within thy gates be diverse in their deeming; rise thou, and go up to the place that thy Lord God hath chosen; 
and thou shalt come to the priests of the kin of Levi, and to the judge that is in that time, and thou shalt ask of them, which shall show to thee the truth of the doom. 
And thou shalt do, whatever thing they say, that be sovereigns in the place which the Lord choose, and teach thee by the law of the Lord; 
thou shalt pursue or follow the sentence of them; thou shalt not bow therefrom to the right side, either to the left. 
For that man shall die, that is proud, and will not obey to the behest of the priest, that ministereth in that time to thy Lord God, and to the sentence of the judge, and thou shalt do away evil from the midst of Israel; 
and all the people shall hear, and dread, that no man from thenceforth swell with pride. 
When thou hast entered into the land, which thy Lord God shall give to thee, and wieldest it, and dwellest therein, and sayest, I shall ordain a king on me, as all nations by compass have; 
thou shalt ordain him, whom thy Lord God chooseth, of the number of thy brethren. Thou shalt not be able to make king a man of another folk, which man is not thy brother. 
And when the king is ordained, he shall not multiply horses to him, neither he shall lead again the people into Egypt, neither he shall be raised into pride, or tyranny, by the number of knights, mostly since the Lord commanded to you, that ye turn no more again by the same way. 
The king shall not have many wives, that draw his mind to lusts, neither he shall have great weights of silver and of gold. 
Forsooth after that he hath set in the throne of his realm, he shall write to himself, that is, shall make to be written, the deuteronomy, that is, declaration, of this law in a book, and he shall take exemplar of priests of the kin of Levi; 
and he shall have it with him, and he shall read it in all the days of his life, that he learn to dread his Lord God, and to keep his words and his ceremonies, that be commanded in the law; 
neither his heart be raised into pride on his brethren, neither bow he into the right side, either left side, that he reign long time, he and his sons on Israel. 
