HAGGAI.
Chapter 1.
In the second year of Darius, king of Persia, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, the word of the Lord was made in the hand of Haggai, prophet, to Zerubbabel, son of Salathiel, duke of Judah, and to Joshua, the great priest, the son of Josedech, and said, 
The Lord of hosts saith these things, and speaketh, This people saith, Yet cometh not the time of the house of the Lord to be builded. 
And the word of the Lord was made in the hand of Haggai, the prophet, and said, 
Whether it is time to you, that ye dwell in houses coupled with timber, and this house be deserted, either forsaken? 
And now the Lord God of hosts saith these things, Put ye your hearts on your ways. 
Ye have sown much, and brought in little; ye have eaten, and ye be not ful filled; ye have drunk, and ye be not full of drink; ye covered you, and ye be not made hot; and he that gathered hires sent those into a sack holed, either broken. 
The Lord of hosts saith these things, Put ye your hearts on your ways. 
Go ye up into the mountain, bear ye trees, and build ye an house; and it shall be acceptable to me, and I shall be glorified, saith the Lord. 
Ye beheld to more, and lo! it is made less; and ye brought into the house, and I blew it out. For what cause, saith the Lord of hosts? for mine house is deserted, and ye hasten each man into his house. 
For this thing heavens be forbidden, that they should not give dew on you; and the earth is forbidden, that it should not give his burgeoning. 
And I called dryness on earth, and on mountains, and on wheat, and on wine, and on oil, and whatever things the earth bringeth forth; and on men, and on beasts, and on all labour of hands. 
And Zerubbabel, the son of Salathiel, and Joshua, the great priest, the son of Josedech, and all remnants of the people, heard the voice of their God, and the words of Haggai, the prophet, as the Lord God of them sent him to them; and all the people dreaded of the face of the Lord. 
And Haggai, a messenger of the Lord, of the messengers of the Lord, said to the people, and spake, I am with you, saith the Lord. 
And the Lord raised the spirit of Zerubbabel, the son of Salathiel, duke of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, the great priest, the son of Josedech, and the spirit of the remnants of all people; and they entered, and made work in the house of the Lord of hosts, their God. 
In the four and twentieth day of the month, in the sixth month, in the second year of king Darius. 
