1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 4.
So a man guess, or deem, us as ministers of Christ, and dispensers of the mysteries of God. 
Now it is sought here among the dispensers, that a man be found true. 
And to me it is for the least thing, that I be deemed of you, or of man’s day, that is, here in this life; but neither I deem myself. 
For I am nothing over-trusting, or guilty, to myself, but not in this thing I am justified; for he that deemeth me, is the Lord. 
Therefore do not ye deem before the time, till that the Lord come, which shall lighten the hid things of darknesses, and shall show the counsels of hearts; and then praising shall be to each man of God. 
And, brethren, I have transfigured these things into me and into Apollos, for you; that in us ye learn, lest over that it is written or over that that is written, one against another be blown with pride for another man. 
Who deemeth thee? And what hast thou, that thou hast not received? And if thou hast received, what gloriest thou, as thou haddest not received? 
Now ye be full-filled, now ye be made rich; ye reign without us; and I would that ye reign, that also we reign with you. 
And I guess, that God showed us the last apostles, as those that be sent to the death; for we be made a spectacle to the world, and to angels, and to men. 
We fools for Christ, but ye prudent in Christ; we sick, but ye strong; ye noble, but we unnoble. 
Till into this hour we hunger, and thirst, and be naked, and be smitten with buffets, and we be unstable, moving from place to place, 
and we travail working with our hands; we be cursed, and we bless; we suffer persecution, and we abide long; 
we be blasphemed, and we beseech; as cleansings of this world we be made the out-casting of all things till yet. 
I write not these things, that I confound you, but I warn you as my most dearworthy sons. 
For why if ye have ten thousand of undermasters in Christ, but not many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I have engendered you by the gospel. 
Therefore, brethren, I pray you, be ye followers of me, as I of Christ. 
Therefore I sent to you Timothy, which is my most dearworthy son, and faithful in the Lord, which shall teach you my ways, that be in Christ Jesus; as I teach everywhere in each church. 
As though I should not come to you, so some be blown with pride; 
but I shall come to you soon, if God will; and I shall know not the word of them that be blown with pride, but the virtue. 
For the realm of God is not in word, but in virtue. 
What will ye? Shall I come to you in a rod, or in charity, and in a spirit of mildness? 
