HAGGAI.
Chapter 2.
In the seventh month, in the one and twentieth day of the month, the word of the Lord was made in the hand of Haggai, the prophet, and said, 
Speak thou to Zerubbabel, the son of Salathiel, the duke of Judah, and to Joshua, the great priest, the son of Josedech, and to others of the people, and say thou, 
Who in you is left, that saw this house in his first glory? and what see ye this now? whether it is not thus, as if it be not before your eyes? 
And now, Zerubbabel, be thou strengthened, saith the Lord, and Joshua, the great priest, the son of Josedech, be thou comforted, and all the people of the land, be thou comforted, saith the Lord of hosts; and do ye, for I am with you, saith the Lord of hosts. 
This is The word that I covenanted with you, when ye went out of the land of Egypt, and my Spirit shall be in the midst of you. Do not ye dread, 
for the Lord of hosts saith these things, Yet one little thing is, and I shall move heaven, and earth, and sea, and dry land; 
and I shall move all folks, and the desired to all folks shall come; and I shall fill this house with glory, saith the Lord of hosts. 
Mine is silver, and mine is gold, saith the Lord of hosts. 
The glory of this last house shall be great, more than of the first, saith the Lord of hosts. And in this place I shall give peace, saith the Lord of hosts. 
In the four and twentieth day of the ninth month, in the second year of king Darius, the word of the Lord was made to Haggai, the prophet, and said, 
The Lord God of hosts saith these things, Ask thou priests the law, and say thou, 
If a man taketh hallowed flesh in the hem of his clothing, and toucheth of the highness thereof bread, either pottage, either wine, either oil, either any meat, whether it shall be hallowed? Soothly priests answered, and said, Nay. 
And Haggai said, If a man defouled in soul toucheth of all these things, whether it shall be defouled? And priests answered, and said, It shall be defouled. 
And Haggai answered, and said, So is this people, and so is this folk before my face, saith the Lord, and so is all the work of their hands; and all things which they offer there shall be defouled. 
And now put ye this on your hearts, from this day and above, before that a stone on a stone was put in the temple of the Lord, 
when ye went to an heap of twenty bushels, and there were made ten; ye entered to the presser, that ye should press out fifty gallons, and there were made twenty. 
I smote you with burning wind, and with mildew, and hail, all the works of your hands; and there was none in you that turned again to me, saith the Lord. 
Put ye this on your hearts from this day, and into coming, from the four and twentieth day of the ninth month, from the day in which foundaments of the temple of the Lord be casted, put ye this on your heart. 
Whether now seed is in burgeoning? and yet vineyard, and fig tree, and pomegranate, and the tree of olive flowered not. From this day I shall bless. 
And the word of the Lord was made the second time to Haggai, in the four and twentieth day of the month, and said, 
Speak thou to Zerubbabel, duke of Judah, and say thou, I shall move heaven and earth together, 
and I shall destroy the seat of realms, and I shall all-break the strength of the realms of heathen men, and I shall destroy a four-horsed cart, and the rider thereof; and the horses shall go down, and the riders of them, a man by sword of his brother. 
In that day, saith the Lord of hosts, thou Zerubbabel, son of Salathiel, my servant, I shall take thee, saith the Lord; and I shall put thee as a signet, for I chose thee, saith the Lord of hosts. 
