ZECHARIAH.
Chapter 14.
Lo! days shall come, saith the Lord, and thy spoils shall be parted in the middle of thee. 
And I shall gather all folks to Jerusalem, into battle; and the city shall be taken, and houses shall be destroyed, and women shall be defouled. And the half part of the city shall go out into captivity, and the residue of the people shall not be taken away from the city. 
And the Lord shall go out, and shall fight against those folks, as he fought in the day of strife. 
And his feet shall stand in that day on the hill of Olives, which is against Jerusalem at the east. And the hill of Olives shall be carved or parted of the middle part thereof to the east, and to the west, by full great before-breaking; and the half of the hill shall be departed to the north, and the half thereof to the south. 
And ye shall flee to the valley of mine hills, for the valley of hills shall be joined together till to the next. And ye shall flee, as ye fled from the face of earth-moving in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah; and my Lord God shall come, and all saints with him. 
And it shall be, in that day light shall not be, but cold and frost. 
And there shall be one day, which is known to the Lord, not day, neither night, and in the time of eventide light shall be. 
And it shall be, in that day quick waters shall go out of Jerusalem, the half of them shall go out to the east sea, and the half of them to the last sea; in summer and in winter they shall be. 
And the Lord shall be king on all earth; in that day there shall be one Lord, and his name shall be one. 
And all earth shall turn again till to or unto desert, from the little hill Rimmon to the south of Jerusalem. And it shall be raised, and shall dwell in his place, from the gate of Benjamin till to the place of the former gate, and till to the gate of the corners, and from the tower of Hananeel till to the pressers of the king. 
And they shall dwell therein, and cursedness shall no more be, but Jerusalem shall sit secure. 
And this shall be the wound by which the Lord shall smite all folks that fought against Jerusalem; the flesh of each man standing on his feet shall fail, either rot, and his eyes shall fail altogether in their holes, and their tongue shall fail altogether in their mouth. 
In that day great noise of the Lord shall be in them, and a man shall catch the hand of his neighbour; and his hand shall be locked altogether on the hand of his neighbour. 
But also Judah shall fight against Jerusalem; and the riches of all folks in compass shall be gathered together, gold, and silver, and many clothes enough. 
And so falling shall be of horse, and mule, and camel, and ass, and of all work beasts that were in those castles, as this falling. 
And all that shall be residue of all folks, that came against Jerusalem, shall go up from year into year, that they worship the king, Lord of hosts, and hallow the feast of tabernacles. 
And it shall be, rain shall not be on them that shall not go up of the meines of earth to Jerusalem, that they worship the king, Lord of hosts. 
That and if the meine of Egypt shall not go up, and shall not come, neither on them shall be rain; but falling shall be, by which the Lord shall smite all folks, which went not up, for to hallow the feast of tabernacles. 
This shall be the sin of Egypt, and this the sin of all folks, that ascended not or went not up, for to hallow the feast of tabernacles. 
In that day, that that is on the bridle of the horse shall be inscribed, Holy to the Lord; and cauldrons shall be in the house of the Lord, as vials, or cruets, before the altar. 
And every cauldron in Jerusalem and Judah shall be hallowed to the Lord of hosts. And all men shall come offering, and shall take of those or them, and shall seethe in those or In them; and a merchant shall no more be in the house of the Lord of hosts in that day. 
