EXODUS.
Chapter 3.
Forsooth Moses kept the sheep of Jethro, his wife’s father, priest of Midian; and when he had driven the flock to the inner parts of the desert, he came to Horeb, the hill of God. 
Forsooth the Lord appeared to him there in a flame of fire from the middle of a bush, and Moses saw that the bush burnt, and it was not burnt up. 
Therefore Moses said, I shall go and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. 
Soothly the Lord saw that Moses went to see, and he called him from the midst of the bush, and said, Moses! Moses! Which answered, I am present. 
And the Lord said, Nigh thou not hither, but unbind thou the shoes of thy feet, for the place in which thou standest is holy land. 
And the Lord said, I am God of thy fathers, God of Abraham, God of Isaac, and God of Jacob. Moses hid his face, for he durst not look against God. 
To whom the Lord said, I saw the affliction of my people in Egypt, and I heard the cry thereof, for the hardness of them that be sovereigns of the works. And I knew the sorrow of the people, 
and I came down to deliver them from the hands of Egyptians, and lead out of that land into a good land and broad, into a land that floweth with milk and honey, to the places of Canaanites, and of Hittites, of Amorites, and of Perizzites, and of Hivites, and of Jebusites. 
Therefore the cry of the sons of Israel came to me, and I saw the torment of them, by which they be oppressed of the Egyptians. 
But come thou, I shall send thee to Pharaoh, that thou lead out my people, the sons of Israel, from Egypt. 
And Moses said to him, Who am I, that I go to Pharaoh, and lead out the sons of Israel from Egypt? 
And the Lord said to Moses, I shall be with thee, and thou shalt have this sign, that I have sent thee; when thou hast led out my people from Egypt, thou shalt offer to God on this hill. 
Moses said to God, Lo! I shall go to the sons of Israel, and I shall say to them, The God of your fathers sent me to you; if they shall say to me, What is his name, what shall I say to them? 
The Lord said to Moses, I am that I am. The Lord said, Thus thou shalt say to the sons of Israel, He that is, sent me to you. 
And again God said to Moses, Thou shalt say these things to the sons of Israel, The Lord God of your fathers, God of Abraham, and God of Isaac, and God of Jacob, sent me to you; this name is to me without end, and this is my memorial in generation and into generation. 
Go thou, gather thou the elder men, that is, judges, of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, The Lord God of your fathers appeared to me, God of Abraham, and God of Isaac, and God of Jacob, and he said, I visiting have visited you, and I have seen all things that befelled to you in Egypt; 
and I said, that I should lead out you from the affliction of Egypt, into the land of Canaanites, and of Hittites, and of Amorites, and of Perizzites, and of Hivites, and of Jebusites, to the land flowing with milk and honey. 
And they shall hear thy voice; and thou shalt enter, and the elder men of Israel, to the king of Egypt, and thou shalt say to him, The Lord God of Hebrews hath called us; we shall go the way of three days into wilderness, that we offer to our Lord God. 
But I know, that the king of Egypt shall not deliver you that ye go, but by strong hand; 
for I shall hold forth mine hand, and I shall smite Egypt in all my marvels which I shall do in the midst of them; after these things he shall deliver you. 
And I shall give grace to this people before the Egyptians, and when ye shall go out, ye shall not go out void; 
but a woman shall ask of her neighbouress, and of her that she is harboured with, silveren vessels, and golden, and clothes, and ye shall put those or them upon your sons and daughters, and ye shall make naked Egypt. 
