JEREMIAH.
Chapter 12.
Forsooth, Lord, thou art just or rightwise; if I dispute with thee, nevertheless I shall speak just or right things to thee. Why hath the way of wicked men prosperity? It is well to all men that break the law, and do wickedly? 
Thou hast planted them, and they sent root; they increase, and make fruit; thou art nigh to the mouth of them, and far from the reins of them. 
And thou, Lord, hast known me, thou hast seen me, and hast proved mine heart with thee. Gather thou them together as a flock to slain sacrifice, and hallow thou them in the day of slaying. 
How long shall the earth mourn, and each herb of the field shall be dried, for the malice of them that dwell therein? A beast is wasted, and a bird, for they said, The Lord shall not see our last things. 
If thou travailest running with footmen, how shalt thou be able to strive with horses? but when thou art secure in the land of peace, what shalt thou do in the pride of Jordan? 
For why both thy brethren and the house of thy father, yea, they fought against thee, and cried with full voice after thee; believe thou not to them, when they speak goods to thee. 
I have left mine house, I have forsaken mine heritage; I gave my beloved soul into the hands of enemies thereof. 
Mine heritage is made as a lion in the wood to me; it gave voice against me, therefore I hated it. 
Whether mine heritage is a bird of diverse colours to me? whether it is a bird dyed throughout? All beasts of the field, come ye, be ye gathered together; haste ye for to devour. 
Many shepherds destroyed my vinery or vineyard, defouled my part, gave my desirable portion into desert of wilderness; 
they setted it into scattering, and it mourned on me; all the land is desolate by desolation, for none is that again-thinketh in heart. 
All destroyers of the land came on all the ways of desert, for the sword of the Lord shall devour from the last part of the land unto the last part thereof; no peace is to all flesh. 
They sowed wheat, and reaped thorns; they took heritage, and it shall not profit to them. Ye shall be shamed of your fruits, for the wrath of the strong vengeance of the Lord. 
The Lord saith these things against all my worst neighbours, that touch the heritage which I parted to my people Israel, Lo! I shall draw them out of their land, and I shall draw the house of Judah out of the midst of them. 
And when I shall draw out those Jews, I shall turn again, and have mercy on them; and I shall lead them again, a man to his heritage, and a man into his land. 
And it shall be, if they that be taught learn the ways of my people, that they swear in my name, The Lord liveth, as they taught my people to swear in Baal, they shall be builded in the midst of my people. 
That if they hear not, I shall draw out that folk by drawing out and perdition, saith the Lord. 
