ZECHARIAH.
Chapter 9.
The burden of the word of the Lord, in the land of Hadrach, and of Damascus, which shall be the rest thereof; for of the Lord is the eye of man, and of all the lineages of Israel. 
And Hamath shall be in the terms thereof, and Tyrus, and Sidon; for they took to them wisdom greatly. 
And Tyrus builded his stronghold, and gathered silver as earth, and gold as fen of streets. 
Lo! the Lord shall wield it, and shall smite in the sea the strength thereof, and it shall be devoured by fire. 
Ashkelon shall see, and shall dread; and Gaza, and shall sorrow full much; and Ekron, for the hope thereof is confounded; and the king shall perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon shall not be inhabited; 
and a parter shall sit in Ashdod, and I shall destroy the pride of Philistines. 
And I shall take away the blood of him from the mouth of him, and the abominations of him from the middle of the teeth of him, and he also shall be left to our God; and he shall be as a duke in Judah, and Ekron as Jebusite. 
And I shall compass mine house of these that hold knighthood to me, and go, and turn again; and an exactor, or unjust asker, shall no more pass on them, for now I saw with mine eyes. 
Thou daughter of Zion, make joy withoutforth enough; sing, thou daughter of Jerusalem; lo! thy king shall come to thee, he is just, and a saviour; he is poor, and ascending or going up on a she-ass, and on a colt or a foal, the son of a she-ass. 
And I shall lose the four-horsed cart of Ephraim, and an horse of Jerusalem, and the bow of battle shall be destroyed; and he shall speak peace to heathen men, and the power of him shall be from sea till to sea, and from floods, till to the ends of the earth. 
And thou in the blood of thy testament sentest out thy bound men from the pit in which is no water. 
Ye bound of hope, be turned again to stronghold; and today I tell, and I shall yield to thee double things, 
for I shall stretch forth to me Judah as a bow, I filled the land of Ephraim. And I shall raise thy sons, thou Zion, on thy sons, thou land of Greeks, and I shall set thee as the sword of strong men. 
And the Lord God shall be seen on them, and the dart of him shall go out as lightning. And the Lord God shall sing in a trump, and shall go in whirlwind of the south; 
the Lord of hosts shall defend them, and they shall devour, and make subject with stones of a sling; and they drinking, shall be filled as with wine, and shall be filled as vials, or cruets, and as horns of the altar. 
And the Lord God of them shall save them in that day, as a flock of his people, for holy stones shall be raised up on the land of him. 
For what is the good of him, and what is the fair thing of him, no but wheat of chosen men, and wine of burgeoning for the virgins? 
