2ND TIMOTHY.
Chapter 2.
Therefore thou, my son, be comforted in grace that is in Christ Jesus. 
And what things thou hast heard of me by many witnesses, betake thou these to faithful men, which shall be able also to teach other men. 
Travail thou as a good knight of Christ Jesus. 
No man holding knighthood to God, en wrappeth himself with worldly needs, that he please to him, to whom he hath proved himself. 
For he that fighteth in a battle, shall not be crowned, but he fight lawfully. 
It behooveth an earth-tiller to receive first of the fruits. 
Understand thou what things I say. For the Lord shall give to thee understanding in all things. 
Be thou mindful that the Lord Jesus Christ of the seed of David hath risen again from death, after my gospel, 
in which I travail unto bonds, as working evil, but the word of God is not bound. 
Therefore I suffer or I sustain all things for the chosen, that also they get the health that is in Christ Jesus, with heavenly glory. 
A true word is this that I say, that if we be dead together to the world, also we shall live together in bliss; 
if we suffer or if we sustain, we shall reign together with Christ; if we deny him, he shall deny us; 
if we believe not, he dwelleth faithful, he may not deny himself. 
Teach thou these things, witness-ing before God. Do not thou strive in words; for to nothing it is profitable, but to the subverting of men that hear. 
Busily keep or Take care to give thyself a proved, praiseable workman to God, without shame, rightly treating the word of truth. 
But eschew thou or shun thou unholy and vain speeches, for why those profit much to unfaithfulness, 
and the word of them creepeth as a canker. Of whom Philetus is, and Hymenaeus, 
which felled down from the truth, saying that the rising-again is now done, and they subverted or turned upside-down the faith of some men. 
But the firm foundament of God standeth, having this mark, The Lord knoweth which be his, and, Each man that nameth the name of the Lord, departeth from wickedness. 
But in a great house be not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of tree, and of earth; and so some be into honour, and some into despite. 
Therefore, if any man cleanseth himself from these, he shall be a vessel hallowed into honour, and profitable to the Lord, ready to all good work. 
And flee thou the desires of youth, but follow thou rightwiseness, faith, charity, peace, with them that inwardly call or that in-call the Lord of a clean heart. 
And eschew thou or shun foolish questions, and without knowing, or discipline, witting that those engender chidings. 
But it behooveth the servant of the Lord to chide not; but to be mild to all men, able to teach, patient, 
with temperance reproving them that against-stand the truth, that some-time God give to them repenting or penance, that they know the truth, 
and that they rise again from the snares of the devil, of whom they be held prisoners at his will. 
