MARK.
Chapter 9.
And he said to them, Truly I say to you, that there be some men standing here, which shall not taste death, till they see the realm of God coming in virtue. 
And after six days Jesus took Peter, and James, and John, and led them by themselves alone into an high hill; and he was transfigured before them. 
And his clothes were made full shining and white as snow, which manner white clothes a fuller may not make on earth. 
And Elijah with Moses appeared to them, and they spake with Jesus. 
And Peter answered, and said to Jesus, Master, it is good us to be here; and make we here three tabernacles, one to thee, one to Moses, and one to Elijah. 
For he knew not what he should say; for they were aghast or afeared by dread. 
And there was made a cloud overshadowing them; and a voice came out of the cloud, and said, This is my most dearworthy Son, hear ye him. 
And anon they beheld about, and saw no more any man, but Jesus only with them. 
And when they came down from the hill, he commanded them, that they should not tell to any man those things that they had seen, but when man’s Son hath risen again from death. 
And they held the word at them-selves, seeking what this should be, when he had risen again from death. 
And they asked him, and said, What then say the Pharisees and the scribes, that it behooveth Elijah to come first. 
And he answered, and said to them, When Elijah cometh, he shall first restore all things; and as it is written of man’s Son, that he suffer many things, and be despised. 
And I say to you that Elijah is come, and they did to him whatever things they would, as it is written of him. 
And he coming to his disciples, saw a great company about them, and the scribes disputing with them. 
And anon all the people seeing Jesus, was astonied, and they dreaded; and they running to, greeted him. 
And he asked them, What dispute ye among you? 
And one of the company answered, and said, Master, I have brought to thee my son, that hath a dumb spirit; 
and wherever he taketh him, he hurtleth him down, and he foameth, and beateth together with teeth, and waxeth dry. And I said to thy disciples, that they should cast him out, and they might not. 
And he answered to them, and said, A! thou generation out of belief or unbelieveful, how long shall I be among you, how long shall I suffer you? Bring ye him to me. 
And they brought him. And when he had seen him, anon the spirit troubled him; and he was thrown down to the ground, and wallowed, and foamed. 
And he asked his father, How long is it, since this hath befallen to him? And he said, From childhood; 
and oft he hath put him into the fire, and into water, to lose him; but if thou mayest anything, help us, and have mercy on us. 
And Jesus said to him, If thou mayest believe, all things be possible to a man that believeth. 
And anon the father of the child cried with tears, and said, Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief. 
And when Jesus had seen the people running together, he menaced the unclean spirit, and said to him, Thou deaf and dumb spirit, I command thee, go out from him, and enter no more into him. 
And he crying, and much wrenching him, went out from him; and he was made as dead, so that many said, that he was dead. 
And Jesus held his hand, and lifted him up; and he rose. 
And when he had entered into an house, his disciples asked him privily, Why might not we cast him out? 
And he said to them, This kind in nothing may go out or This kind may not go out in anything, but in prayer and fasting. 
And they went from thence, and went forth into Galilee; and they would not, that any man knew, or and he would not, that any man know. 
And he taught his disciples, and said to them, For man’s Son shall be betrayed into the hands of men, and they shall slay him, and he slain shall rise again on the third day. 
And they knew not the word, and dreaded to ask him. 
And they came to Capernaum. And when they were in the house, he asked them, What treated ye in the way? 
And they were still; for they disputed among themselves in the way, who of them should be the greatest. 
And he sat, and called the twelve, and said to them, If any man will be the first among you, he shall be the last of all, and the minister or the servant of all. 
And he took a child, and set him in the middle or in the midst of them; and when he had embraced him, he said to them, 
Whoever receiveth one of such children in my name, he receiveth me; and whoever receiveth me, he receiveth not me alone, but him that sent me. 
John answered to him, and said, Master, we saw one casting out fiends in thy name, which pursueth not us, and we have forbidden him. 
And Jesus said, Do not ye forbid him; for there is no man that doeth virtue in my name, and may soon speak evil of me. 
He that is not against us, is for us. 
And whoever giveth to you a cup of cold water to drink in my name, for ye be of Christ, truly I say to you, he shall not lose his meed. 
And whoever shall cause to stumble one of these little that believe in me, it were better to him that a millstone were done about his neck, and he were cast into the sea. 
And if thine hand cause thee to stumble, cut it away; it is better to thee to enter feeble into life, than have two hands, and go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched or into fire unquenchable, 
where the worm of them dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 
And if thy foot cause thee to stumble, cut it off; it is better to thee to enter crooked into everlasting life, than have two feet, and be sent into hell of fire or into hellfire, that never shall be quenched, 
where the worm of them dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 
That if thine eye cause thee to stumble, cast it out; it is better to thee to enter goggle-eyed into the realm of God, than have two eyes, and be sent into hell of fire or into hellfire, 
where the worm of them dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 
And every man shall be salted with fire, and every slain sacrifice shall be made savoury with salt. Forsooth every man shall be made savoury with fire, and every slain sacrifice shall be salted with salt. 
Salt is good; if salt be unsavoury, in what thing shall ye make it savoury? Have ye salt among you, and have ye peace among you. 
