JOB.
Chapter 8.
Then Bildad the Shuhite answer-ed, and said, 
How long shalt thou speak such things? The spirit of the word of thy mouth is manyfold. 
Whether God supplanteth, either deceiveth, doom, and whether Almighty God destroyeth that, that is just or rightwise? 
Yea, though thy sons sinned against him, and he left them in the hand of their wickedness; 
nevertheless, if thou risest early to God, and beseechest Almighty God, 
if thou goest clean and rightful, anon he shall wake fully to thee, and shall make peaceable the dwelling place of thy rightfulness or rightwiseness; 
in so much that thy former things were little, and that thy last things be multiplied greatly. 
For why, ask thou the former generations, and seek thou diligently the mind of the fathers. 
For we be men of yesterday, and know not; for our days be as a shadow on the earth. 
And they shall teach thee, and they shall speak to thee, and of their heart they shall bring forth true speeches. 
Whether a bulrush may grow with-out moisture? either a reed without water? 
When it is yet in the flower, neither it is taken with hand, it waxeth dry before all herbs. 
So be the ways of all men, that forget God; and the hope of an hypocrite shall perish. 
His cowardice shall not please God, and his trust shall be as a web of spiders. 
He shall lean, either rest, upon his house, and it shall not stand; he shall underset it, and it shall not rise up altogether. 
The bulrush seemeth moist, before that the sun come; and in the rising of the sun, the seed thereof shall go out. 
The roots thereof shall be made thick upon an heap of stones, and it shall dwell among the stones. 
If a man draweth it out of the place thereof, that place shall deny it, and it shall say, I know thee not. 
For this is the gladness of his way, that again other bulrushes spring out of the earth. 
Forsooth God shall not cast away a simple man, neither he shall dress his hand to help wicked men; 
till thy mouth be filled with laughter, and thy lips with hearty song. 
They that hate thee shall be clothed with shame; and the taber-nacle of wicked men shall not stand. 
