ISAIAH.
Chapter 61.
The spirit of the Lord isup on me, for the Lord anointed me; he sent me to tell out to mild men, that I should heal men contrite in heart, and preach forgiveness to captives, and opening to prisoners; 
and preach a pleasant year to the Lord, and a day of vengeance to our God; that I should comfort all that mourn; 
that I should set comfort to the mourners of Zion, and that I should give to them a crown for ashes, oil of joy for mourning, a mantle of praising for the spirit of wailing. And strong men of rightfulness or rightwiseness shall be called therein, the planting of the Lord, for to glorify. 
And they shall build things that be forsaken from the world, and they shall raise eld or old fallings, and they shall restore cities that be forsaken and destroyed, in generation and into generation. 
And aliens shall stand, and feed your beasts; and the sons of pilgrims shall be your earth-tillers and vine-tillers. 
But ye shall be called the priests of the Lord; it shall be said to you, Ye be ministers of our God. Ye shall eat the strength of heathen men, and ye shall be honoured in the glory of them. 
For your double shame and shame, they shall praise the part of them; for this thing they shall have peaceably double things in their land, and everlasting gladness shall be to them. 
For I am the Lord, loving doom, and hating raven in burnt sacrifices. And I shall give the work of them in truth, and I shall smite to them an everlasting bond of peace. 
And the seed of them shall be known among folks, and the bur-geoning of them in the midst of peoples. All men that see them, shall know them, for these be the seed, whom the Lord blessed. 
I joying shall have joy in the Lord, and my soul shall make full out joying in my God. For he hath clothed me with the clothes of health, and he hath compassed me with the clothes of rightfulness or rightwiseness, as a spouse made fair with a crown, and as a spousess adorned with her brooches. 
For as the earth bringeth forth his fruit, and as a garden burgeoneth his seed, so the Lord God shall make to grow rightfulness or rightwiseness and praising before all folks. 
