PSALMS.
Chapter 69.
To victory, on the roses of David. God, make thou me safe; for waters have entered unto my soul. 
I am set in the slime of the depth; and there is no substance. I came into the depth of the sea; and the tempest drenched or drowned me down. 
I travailed crying, my cheeks were made hoarse; mine eyes failed, the while I hope/d into my God. 
They that hated me without cause; were multiplied above the hairs of mine head. Mine enemies that pursued me unjustly were comforted; I paid then for those things, which I ravished not. 
God, thou knowest mine unknow-ing; and my trespasses be not hid from thee. 
Lord, Lord of virtues; they, that abide thee, be not ashamed in me. God of Israel; they, that seek thee, be not shamed on me. 
For I suffered shame for thee; shame covered my face. 
I am made a stranger to my brethren; and a pilgrim to the sons of my mother. 
For the fervent love of thine house ate me; and the shames of men saying shames to thee fell on me. 
And I covered my soul with fasting; and it was made into shame to me. 
And I putted or putfor my cloth an hair-shirt; and I am made to them into a parable. 
They, that sat in the gate, spake against me; and they, that drank wine, sang of me. 
But Lord, I dress my prayer to thee; God, I abide the time of good pleasance. Hear thou me in the multitude of thy mercy; in the truth of thine health. 
Deliver thou me from the clay, that I be not fast set-in; deliver thou me from them that hate me, and from the depths or deepness of waters. 
The tempest of water drench not me down, neither the depth swallow me; neither the pit make strait his mouth on me. 
Lord, hear thou me, for thy mercy is benign; after the multitude of thy merciful doings behold thou into me. 
And turn not away thy face from thy servant; for I am in tribulation, hear thou me swiftly. 
Give thou attention to my soul, and deliver thou it; for mine enemies, deliver thou me. 
Thou knowest my reproof, and my despising; and my shame. All that trouble me be in thy sight; 
mine heart abode in shame, and wretchedness. And I abode him, that was sorry together with me, and none was; and that should comfort me, and I found not. 
And they gave gall into my meat; and in my thirst they gave to me drink with vinegar. 
The board of them be made before them into a snare; and into yieldings, and into cause of stumbling. 
Their eyes be made dark, that they see not; and evermore bow down the back of them. 
Shed or Pour out thine ire or wrath on them; and the strong vengeance of thine ire take them. 
The habitation of them be made forsaken; and be there none that dwell in the tabernacles of them. 
For they pursued him, whom thou hast smitten; and they added on the sorrow of my wounds. 
Add thou wickedness on the wickedness of them; and enter they not into thy rightwiseness. 
Be they done away from the book of living men; and be they not written with just or rightwise men. 
I am poor and sorrowful; God, thine health or salvation took me up. 
I shall praise the name of God with song; and I shall magnify him with praising. 
And it shall please God more than a new calf bringing forth horns and claws. 
Poor men see, and be glad; seek ye God, and your soul shall live. 
For the Lord heard poor men; and despised not his bound men. 
Heavens and earth, praise him; the sea, and all creeping beasts in those, praise him. 
For God shall make safe Zion; and the cities of Judah shall be builded. And they shall dwell there; and they shall get it by heritage. 
And the seed of his servants shall have it in possession; and they that love his name, shall dwell therein. 
