NUMBERS.
Chapter 34.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Command thou to the sons of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, When ye have entered into the land of Canaan, and it befall into possession to you by lot, it shall be ended by these ends. 
The south part shall begin at the wilderness of Zin, which is beside Edom, and it shall have the terms against the east, the saltiest sea, 
the which terms shall compass the south coast by the going up of the hill Scorpion, so that those terms pass into Zin, and come to the south, unto Kadeshbarnea; from whence the terms shall go forth to the town, Addar by name, and they shall stretch forth unto Azmon; 
and the term shall go by compass from Azmon unto the strand of Egypt, and it shall be ended by the brink of the great sea. 
Soothly the west coast shall begin at the great sea, and it shall be closed by that end. 
Soothly at the north coast, the terms shall begin at the great sea, and they shall come unto the highest hill, 
from which hill those terms shall come into Hamath, unto the terms of Zedad; 
and the coasts shall go unto Ziphron, and to the town of Enan. These shall be the terms in the north part. 
From thence they shall mete the coasts against the east coast, from the town Enan to Shepham; 
and from Shepham the terms shall go down into Riblah, against the well of Ain; from thence those terms shall come against the east to the sea of Chinnereth; 
and those terms shall stretch forth till to Jordan, and at the last those shall be closed with the saltiest sea. Ye shall have this land by his coasts in compass. 
And Moses commanded to the sons of Israel, and said, This shall be the land which ye shall wield by lot, and which the Lord commanded to be given to the nine lineages, and to the half lineage; 
for the lineage of the sons of Reuben, by their meines, and the lineage of the sons of Gad, by their kindred and number, and half the lineage of Manasseh, 
that is, two lineages and an half, have taken their part over Jordan, against Jericho, at the east coast. 
And the Lord said to Moses, 
These be the names of the men that shall part the land to you, Eleazar, the priest, and Joshua, the son of Nun, 
and of each lineage, one prince; 
of which these be the names; of the lineage of Judah, Caleb, the son of Jephunneh; 
of the lineage of Simeon, Shemuel, the son of Ammihud; 
of the lineage of Benjamin, Elidad, the son of Chislon; 
of the lineage of the sons of Dan, Bukki, the son of Jogli; 
of the sons of Joseph, of the lineage of Manasseh, Hanniel, the son of Ephod; 
of the lineage of Ephraim, Kemuel, the son of Shiphtan; 
of the lineage of Zebulun, Elizaphan, the son of Parnach; 
of the lineage of Issachar, duke Paltiel, the son of Azzan; 
of the lineage of Asher, Ahihud, the son of Shelomi; 
of the lineage of Naphtali, Pedahel, the son of Ammihud. 
These men it be, to which the Lord commanded, that they should part to the sons of Israel the land of Canaan. 
