ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 40.
Great occupation is made to all men, and an heavy yoke on the sons of Adam, from the day of the going out of the womb of their mother, till into the day of burying into the mother of all men, that is, into the earth. 
The thoughts of them, and the dreads of heart, findings of abiding, and the day of ending; 
from him that sitteth before on a glorious seat, unto a man made low into earth and ashes; 
from him that useth jacinth or blue silk, and beareth a crown, unto him that is covered with raw linen cloth, 
madness, envy, noise, doubting, and dread of death, wrathfulness dwelling continually, and strife; and in the time of resting or repast in the bed, the sleep of night changeth his knowing. 
Forsooth a little is as nought in rest; beholding is of him in sleep as in the day. He is disturbed or troubled in the sight of his heart, as he that escapeth or escaped in the day of battle. 
He rose up in the day of his health, and dreading not at any dread or and wondering at no dread, 
with all flesh, from man unto beast, and sevenfold more, that is, grievous punishment, shall come on sinners. 
At these things, death, blood, striving or strife, and sword, oppress-ings, hunger, and sorrow, and beat-ings or scourges; 
all these things be made on wicked men, and the great flood was made for them. 
For why all things that be of the earth, shall return into the earth; and all things that be of the waters shall return into the sea. 
All gift, given for destroying of rightfulness, and wickedness, done for gift, shall be done away, or All gift and wickedness shall be done away; and faith shall stand into the world. 
The riches of unjust men shall be made dry as a flood, or The sub-stances of unrightwise men as a flood shall be dried up; and shall sound as a great thunder in rain. 
An unjust man shall be glad in opening his hands; so trespassers shall fail in the end. As the rightwise man in opening his hands shall glad; so the law-breakers in the end shall wane away. 
The sons of sons of wicked or unpious men shall not multiply branches; and be like unclean roots sown on the cop or top of a stone. 
Greenness beside each water; and at the brink of the flood, it shall be drawn out by the root before all hay. 
Grace as paradise in blessings; and mercy dwelleth into the world. 
The life of a workman sufficient to himself shall be made sweet; and thou shalt find treasure therein. 
Building of a city shall confirm a name; and a woman without wem shall be reckoned above this or over this an undefouled woman shall be counted, for why her steadfastness shall stand without end. 
Wine and music make glad the heart; and love of wisdom gladdeth above ever either. Wine and melody gladden the heart; and over either the loving of wisdom. 
Pipes and psaltery make sweet melody; and a sweet tongue above ever either. 
An eye shall desire grace and fair-ness; and green sowings above these things or over these green tilthes. 
A friend and fellow coming together in time; and a woman with a man above or over ever either. 
Brethren into help in the time of tribulation comfort much; and mercy shall deliver more than they or over them. 
Gold and silver, and setting of feet; and counsel well-pleasing is above or over ever either. 
Riches and virtues enhance the heart; and the dread of the Lord more than this. Making less is not in the dread of the Lord; and in that dread it is not to seek help, or There is not in the dread of the Lord lessening; and there is not in it to seek help. 
The dread of the Lord is as paradise of blessing; and the bless-ings of God covered him above all glory. 
Son, in the time of thy life, be thou not needy, that is, in time of present life, granted to thee to work well, be thou not idle; for it is better to die, than to be needy or than to need, that is, it is better to die bodily, than to be idle, by which a man dieth ghostly. 
A man beholding into another man’s board, his life is not in the thought of lifelode; for he sustaineth his life with other men’s meats. Forsooth a chastised man and learned or A man forsooth disciplined and taught, shall keep himself. 
Neediness shall be defouled or made in the mouth of an unprudent, that is, a slow and idle, man; and fire shall burn in his womb. 
