MATTHEW.
Chapter 5.
And Jesus, seeing the people, went up into the hill; and when he was set or had sat, his disciples came to him. 
And he opened his mouth, and taught them, and said, 
Blessed be poor men in spirit, for the kingdom of heavens is theirs. Blessed be the poor in spirit, for the kingdom of heaven is theirs. 
Blessed be mild men, for they shall wield the earth. 
Blessed be they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. 
Blessed be they that hunger and thirst rightwiseness, for they shall be fulfilled. 
Blessed be merciful men+or Blessed be the merciful, for they shall get mercy. 
Blessed be they that be of clean heart, for they shall see God. 
Blessed be peaceable men, for they shall be called God’s children. +Blessed be the peaceable, for they shall be called the sons of God. 
Blessed be they that suffer persecution for rightwiseness, for the kingdom of heavens or the kingdom of heaven is theirs. 
Blessed be ye, when men shall curse you, and shall pursue you, and shall say all evil against you lying, for me. 
Joy ye, and be ye glad, for your meed is plenteous in heavens; for so they have pursued also prophets that were before you. 
Ye be salt of the earth; that if the salt vanish away, wherein shall it be salted? To nothing it is worth over, but that it be cast out, and be defouled of men. 
Ye be the light of the world; a city set on an hill may not be hid; 
nor men tendeth a lantern, and putteth it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, that it give light to all that be in the house. 
So shine your light before men, that they see your good works, and glorify your Father that is in heavens. 
Do not ye deem, or guess, that I came to undo or to destroy the law, or the prophets; I came not to undo or to destroy the law, but to fulfill. 
Forsooth I say to you, till heaven and earth pass, one letter, or one i, that is, the least letter, or one tittle shall not pass from the law, till all things be done. 
Therefore he that breaketh one of these least commandments, and teach-eth thus men, shall be called the least in the realm of heavens; but he that doeth, and teacheth, shall be called great in the kingdom of heavens. 
And I say to you, that but your rightwiseness be more plenteous than of scribes and of Pharisees, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heavens. 
Ye have heard that it was said to old men, Thou shalt not slay; and he that slayeth, shall be guilty to the doom. 
But I say to you, that each man that is wroth to his brother, shall be guilty to doom; and he that saith to his brother, Fie!, that is, a word of scorn, shall be guilty to the council; but he that saith Fool, that is, a word of despising, shall be guilty to the fire of hell. 
Therefore if thou offerest thy gift at the altar, and there thou bethinkest, that thy brother hath somewhat or something against thee, 
leave there thy gift before the altar, and go first to be reconciled to thy brother, and then thou shalt come, and shalt offer thy gift. 
Be thou consenting to thine adversary soon, while thou art in the way with him, lest peradventure thine adversary take thee to the doomsman or the judge, and the doomsman take thee to the minister, and thou be sent into prison. 
Truly I say to thee, Thou shalt not go out from thence, till thou yield the last farthing. 
Ye have heard that it was said to old men, Thou shalt not do lechery. 
But I say to you, that every man that seeth a woman for to covet her, hath now done lechery by her in his heart. 
That if thy right eye cause thee to stumble, pull it out, and cast it from thee; for it speedeth to thee, that one of thy members perish, than that all thy body go into hell. 
And if thy right hand cause thee to stumble, cut it away, and cast it from thee; for it speedeth to thee, that one of thy members perish, than that all thy body go into hell. 
And it hath been said, Whoever leaveth his wife, give he to her a libel or a little book of forsaking. 
But I say to you, that every man that leaveth his wife, except the cause of fornication, maketh her to do lechery, and he that weddeth the forsaken wife, doeth adultery. 
Again ye have heard, that it was said to old men, Thou shalt not forswear, but thou shalt yield thine oaths to the Lord. 
But I say to you, that ye swear not for anything; neither by heaven, for it is the throne of God; 
neither by the earth, for it is the stool of his feet; neither by Jerusalem, for it is the city of a great or the great king; 
neither thou shalt swear by thine head, for thou mayest not make one hair white, or black; 
but be your word, Yea, yea; Nay, nay; and that that is more than these, is of evil. 
Ye have heard that it hath been said, Eye for eye, and tooth for tooth. 
But I say to you, that ye against-stand not an evil man, or to not against-stand evil; but if any smite thee in the right cheek, show or give to him also the other; 
and to him that will strive with thee in doom, and take away thy coat, leave thou to him also thy mantle or thine over-cloth; 
and whoever constraineth thee a thousand paces, go thou with him other twain. 
Give thou to him that asketh of thee, and turn thou not away from him that will borrow of thee. 
Ye have heard that it was said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy. 
But I say to you, love ye your enemies, do ye well to them that hate you, and pray ye for them that pursue, and slander you; 
that ye be the sons of your Father that is in heavens, that maketh his sun to rise upon good and evil men, and raineth on just men and unjust. 
For if ye love them that love you, what meed shall ye have? whether the publicans do not this thing? 
And if ye greet your brethren only, what shall ye do moreover? do not heathen men or pagans this? 
Therefore be ye perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect. 
