2ND SAMUEL.
Chapter 15.
Therefore after these things, Absalom made a chariot to him, and had knights and fifty men, that should go before him. 
And Absalom rose early, and stood beside the entering of the gate in the way; and Absalom called to him each man, that had a cause or a need that he should come to the doom of the king, and Absalom said, Of what city art thou? Which answered, and said, Of one lineage of Israel I am, thy servant. 
And Absalom answered to him, Thy words seem to me good and just, but none is ordained of the king to hear thee. 
And Absalom said, Who shall ordain me judge on the land, that all men that have a cause or need come to me, and I deem justly or right-wisely? 
But when a man came to Absalom to greet him, he held forth his hand, and took, and kissed that man; 
and Absalom did this to all Israel, that came to doom to be heard of the king; and Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. 
But after four years, Absalom said to king David, I shall go, and shall yield my vows, which I vowed to the Lord in Hebron; 
for thy servant vowing vowed, when he was in Geshur of Syria, and said, If the Lord bringeth again me or me again into Jerusalem, I shall make sacrifice to the Lord. 
And the king said to him, Go thou in peace. And Absalom rose up, and went into Hebron. 
Forsooth Absalom sent spyers into all the lineages of Israel, and said, Anon as ye hear the sound of the clarion, say ye, Absalom shall reign in Hebron. 
And two hundred men called out of Jerusalem went forth with Absalom, and went with simple heart, and utterly they knew not the cause. 
Also Absalom called for Ahithophel of Giloh, the counsellor of David, from his city Giloh. And when he offered sacrifices, a strong swearing together was made, and the people running together was increased with Absalom. 
Therefore a messenger came to David, and said, With all the heart all Israel followeth Absalom, 
And David said to his servants that were with him in Jerusalem, Rise ye up, and flee we; for none escaping shall be to us from the face of Absalom; therefore haste ye to go out, lest he come, and occupy us, and fulfill upon us his falling, and smite the city with sharpness of the sword. 
And the servants of the king said to him, We thy servants shall perform gladly all things, whatever our lord the king shall command. 
Then the king went out, and all his house, upon their feet; and the king left ten women concubines, that is, secondary wives, to keep the house. 
And the king went out, and all Israel, upon their feet, and the king stood far from the house. 
And all his servants went beside him, and the legions of Cherethites and of Pelethites, and all the strong fighting men of Gath, six hundred men, that pursued or followed him from Gath, went on foot before the king. 
And the king said to Ittai of Gath, Why comest thou with us? Turn thou again, and dwell with the new king, for thou art a pilgrim, and wentest out from thy place. 
Thou camest yesterday, and today thou art compelled to go out with us. Soothly I shall go, whither I shall go; turn again, and lead again thy brethren with thee, and the Lord do mercy and truth with thee, for thou hast showed to me grace and faith. 
And Ittai answered to the king, and said, The Lord liveth, and my lord the king liveth, for in whatever place thou shalt be, my lord the king, either in death either in life, there thy servant shall be. 
And David said to Ittai, Come thou, and pass forth. And Ittai of Gath passed forth, and the king, and all men that were with him, and the tother multitude. 
And all men wept with great voice, and all the people passed forth; and the king went over the strand or stream of Kidron, and all the people went against the way of the olive trees, that beholdeth to the desert. 
Forsooth and Zadok the priest came, and all the deacons or Levites with him, and they bare the ark of the bond of peace of God, and they setted or set down the ark of God; and Abiathar went up, till all the people was passed forth that went out of the city. 
And the king said to Zadok, Bear again the ark of God into the city; if I shall find grace in the eyes of the Lord, he shall lead me again, and he shall show to me that ark, and his tabernacle. 
Soothly if the Lord saith, Thou pleasest not me; I am ready, do he that, that is good before himself. 
And the king said to Zadok, the priest, O! thou seer, that is, prophet, turn again into the city, with peace; and Ahimaaz, thy son, and Jonathan, the son of Abiathar, your two sons, be with you. 
Lo! I shall be hid in the field places of the desert, till word come from you, and show to me. 
Therefore Zadok and Abiathar bare again the ark of God into Jerusalem, and they dwelled there. 
Forsooth David went up upon the hill of olive trees, going up and weeping, with his head covered, and with bare feet passing forth; but also all the people that was with him, went up with their heads covered, and wept. 
And it was told to David, that Ahithophel was in the swearing together with Absalom; and David said, Lord, I beseech, make thou fond or folly the counsel of Ahithophel. 
And when David went up into the highness of the hill, in which he should worship the Lord, lo! Hushai of Archi, with his cloth rent, and with his head full of earth, came to him. 
And David said to him, If thou comest with me, thou shalt be to me a charge; 
soothly if thou turnest again to the city, and sayest to Absalom, I am thy servant, O king, suffer thou me to live; as I was the servant of thy father, so I shall be thy servant; thou shalt destroy the counsel of Ahithophel. 
And thou hast with thee Zadok and Abiathar, the priests; and what-ever word thou shalt hear in the house of the king, thou shalt show it to the priests, Zadok and Abiathar. 
And their two sons be with them, Ahimaaz, the son of Zadok, and Jonathan, the son of Abiathar; and ye shall send by them to me each word that ye shall hear. 
Therefore when Hushai, friend of David, came into the city, also Absalom entered into Jerusalem. 
