LUKE.
Chapter 21.
And he beheld, and saw the rich men, that cast their gifts into the treasury; 
but he saw also a little poor widow casting two farthings or two little moneys. 
And he said, Truly I say to you, that this poor widow cast more than all men. 
For why all these of the thing that was plenteous or abundant to them cast in to the gifts of God; but this widow of that thing that failed to her, cast all her livelode or all her lifelode, that she had. 
And when some men said of the temple, that it was appareled or adorned with good stones and gifts, he said, 
These things that ye see, days shall come, in which a stone shall not be left on a stone, which shall not be destroyed. 
And they asked him, and said, Commander, when shall these things be? and what token shall be, when they shall begin to be done? 
And he said, See ye, that ye be not deceived; for many shall come in my name, saying, For I am, and the time shall nigh; therefore do not ye go after them. 
And when ye shall hear battles and strives or dissensions within, do not ye be afeared; it behooveth first these things to be done, but not yet anon is an end or the end. 
Then he said to them, Folk shall rise against folk, and realm against realm; 
and great movings of the earth shall be by places, and pestilences, and hungers, and dreads from heaven, and great tokens shall be. 
But before all these things they shall set their hands on you, and shall pursue you, betaking into synagogues and keepings, either prisons, and drawing you to kings and to justices, for my name; 
but it shall fall to you into witnessing. 
Therefore put ye in your hearts, not to think before, how ye shall answer; 
for I shall give to you mouth and wisdom, to which all your adversaries shall not be able to against-stand, and gainsay. 
And ye shall be taken or betrayed of father, and mother, and brethren, and cousins, and friends, and by death they shall torment some of you; 
and ye shall be in hate to or be hated of all men for my name. 
And an hair of your head shall not perish; 
in your patience ye shall wield your souls. 
But when ye shall see Jerusalem be environed with an host of battle, then know ye, that the desolation of it shall nigh. 
Then they that be in Judea, flee to the mountains; and they that be in the middle of it, go away; and they that be in the countries, enter not into it. 
For these be the days of vengeance, that all things that be written, be fulfilled. 
And woe to them, that be with child, and nourishing or nursing in those days; for a great dis-ease or pressure shall be on the earth, and wrath to this people. 
And they shall fall by the sharpness of sword, and they shall be led prisoners or led captive into all folks; and Jerusalem shall be defouled of heathen men, till the times of nations be fulfilled. 
And tokens shall be in the sun, and the moon, and in the stars; and in the earth overlaying of folks, for confusion of the sound of the sea and of floods or of waves; 
for men shall wax dry for dread and abiding, that shall come into or on all the world; for virtues of heaven shall be moved. 
And then they shall see man’s Son coming in a cloud, with great power and majesty. 
And when these things begin to be made or beginning to be done, behold ye, and raise ye your heads, for your redemption nigheth. 
And he said to them a likeness, See ye the fig tree, and all trees, 
when they bring forth now of themselves fruit, ye know that summer is nigh; 
so also ye, when ye see these things to be done, know ye, that the kingdom of God is nigh. 
Truly I say to you, that this generation shall not pass, till all things be done. 
Heaven and earth shall pass, but my words shall not pass. 
But take ye heed to yourselves, lest peradventure your hearts be grieved with gluttony, and drunken-ness, and busynesses of this life, and that day come suddenly on you; 
for as a snare it shall come on all men, that sit on the face of all the earth. 
Therefore wake ye, praying in each time, that ye be had worthy to flee all these things that be to come or that shall come, and to stand before man’s Son. 
And in days he was teaching in the temple, but in nights he went out, and dwelled in the mount, that is called of Olivet. 
And all the people rose or came early, to come to him in the temple, for to hear him. 
