PSALMS.
Chapter 35.
To David. The psalm of David. Lord, deem thou them, that annoy me; overcome thou them, that fight against me. 
Take thou armours and shield; and rise up into help to me. 
Hold out the sword, and close altogether the way against them that pursue me; say thou to my soul, I am thine health. 
They that seek my life; be shamed, and ashamed. They that think evils to me; be turned away backward, and be they shamed. 
Be they made as dust before the face of the wind; and the angel of the Lord make them strait. 
Their way be made darkness, and sliderness; and the angel of the Lord pursue them. 
For without cause they hid to me the death of their snare; in vain they despised my soul. 
The snare which he knoweth not come to him, and the taking which he hid take him; and fall he into the snare in that thing. 
But my soul shall fully have joy in the Lord; and shall delight on his health. 
All my bones shall say, Lord, who is like thee? Thou deliverest a poor man from the hand of his stronger; a needy man and poor from them that diversely ravish him. 
Wicked witnesses rising asked me things, which I knew not. 
They yielded to me evils for goods; barrenness to my soul. 
But when they were dis-easeful to me; I was clothed in an hair-shirt. I meeked my soul in fasting; and my prayer shall be turned into my bosom. 
I pleased so as our neighbour, as our brother; I was made meek, so as mourning and sorrowful. 
And they were glad, and came together against me; torments were gathered on me, and I knew it not. They were scattered, and not compunct; 
they tempted me, they scorned me with mocking, they gnashed on me with their teeth. 
Lord, when thou shalt behold, restore thou my soul from the wicked-ness of them; mine one alone from lions. 
I shall acknowledge to thee in a great church; I shall praise thee in a firm people. 
They that be adversaries wickedly to me, have not joy on me; that hate me without cause, and beckon with eyes. 
For soothly they spake not peace-ably to me; and they speaking in wrath-fulness of the earth, thought guiles. 
And they made large their mouth on me; they said, Well, well! our eyes have seen. 
Lord, thou hast seen, be thou not still; Lord, depart thou not from me. 
Rise up, and give attention to my doom; my God and my Lord, behold into my cause. 
My Lord God, deem thou me by thy rightfulness or rightwiseness; and have they not joy on me. 
Say they not in their hearts, Well, well, to our soul; neither say they, We shall devour him. 
Shame they, and dread they together; that joy for mine evils. Be they clothed with shame and dread; that speak evil things on me. 
Have they full joy, and be they glad, that will or desire my rightful-ness or rightwiseness; and say they evermore, The Lord be magnified, which desire the peace of his servant. 
And my tongue shall bethink thy rightfulness or rightwiseness; all day thy praising. 
