HABAKKUK.
Chapter 3.
The prayer of Habakkuk, the prophet, for unknowing men. 
Lord, I heard thy praising, and I dreaded; Lord, it is thy work, in the middle of years, quicken thou it. In the middle of years, thou shalt make thyself known; when thou shalt be wroth, thou shalt have mind of mercy. 
God shall come from the south, and the Holy from the mount of Paran. The glory of him covered heavens, and the earth is full of his praising. 
The shining of him shall be as light; with horns in the hands of him. There the strength of him was hid, 
death shall go before his face; the devil shall go out before his feet. 
He stood, and meted the earth; he beheld, and unbound folks, and hills of the world were all-broken; the little hills of the world were bowed down, of the ways of his everlastingness. 
For wickedness I saw the tents of Ethiopia, the skins of the land of Midian shall be troubled. 
Lord, whether in floods thou art wroth, either in floods is thy strong vengeance, either in the sea is thine indignation? Which shalt ascend or go up on thine horses; and on thy four-horsed carts is salvation. 
Thou raising shalt raise thy bow, oaths to lineages which thou hast spoken; thou shalt part the floods of earth. 
Waters saw thee, and hills sorrowed, the gutter of waters passed; deepness gave his voice, highness raised his hands. 
The sun and moon stood in their dwelling place; in the light of thine arrows they shall go, in the shining of thy spear glistening. 
In gnashing thou shalt defoul earth, and in strong vengeance thou shalt astonish folks. 
Thou art gone out into health of thy people, into health with thy christ or thine anointed; thou hast smitten the head of the house of the unpious man, thou hast made naked the foundament till to the neck. 
Thou cursedest the sceptre, either power, of him, the head of his fighters, to men coming as whirlwind for to scatter me; thou heardest the joying withoutforth of them, as of him that devoureth a poor man in huddles. 
Thou madest a way in the sea to thine horses, in clay of many waters. 
I heard, and my womb is troubled altogether; my lips trembled altogether of the voice. Rot entered into my bones, and sprang under me; that I rest again in the day of tribulation, and I shall go up to our people girded altogether. 
For the fig tree shall not flower, and burgeoning shall not be in vineyards; the work of the olive tree shall lie down, and fields shall not bring forth meat; a sheep shall be cut away from the fold, a drove shall not be in cratches. 
Forsooth I shall have joy in the Lord, and I shall make joy without-forth in God my Jesus or my salvation. 
God the Lord is my strength, and he shall put my feet as of harts; and up on mine high things, the over-comer shall lead forth me, singing in psalms. 
