PSALMS.
Chapter 37.
To David. The psalm of David. Do not thou pursue or follow wicked men; neither love thou men doing wickedness. 
For they shall wax dry swiftly as hay; and they shall fall down soon as the worts of herbs. 
Hope thou in the Lord, and do thou goodness; and inhabit thou the land, and thou shalt be fed with his riches. 
Delight thou in the Lord; and he shall give to thee the askings of thine heart. 
Show thy way to the Lord; and hope in him, and he shall do. 
And he shall lead out thy rightfulness or rightwiseness as light, and thy doom as midday; 
be thou subject to the Lord, and pray thou him. Do not thou pursue or follow him, that hath prosperity in his way; nor a man doing unright-fulness. 
Cease thou of ire, and forsake strong vengeance; do not thou pursue or follow, that thou do wickedly. 
For they, that do wickedly, shall be destroyed; but they that suffer the Lord, shall inherit the land. 
And yet a little, and a sinner shall not be; and thou shalt seek his place, and thou shalt not find it. 
But mild men shall inherit the land; and shall delight in the multitude of peace. 
A sinner shall ambush the rightful or rightwise man; and he shall gnash with his teeth on him. 
But the Lord shall scorn the sinner; for he beholdeth that his day cometh. 
Sinners have drawn out sword; they bent their bow. To deceive a poor man and needy; to strangle rightful or right men of heart. 
Their sword enter into the heart of themselves; and their bow be broken. 
Better is a little thing to a just or rightwise man; than many riches of sinners. 
For the arms of sinners shall be all-broken; but the Lord confirmeth just or rightwise men. 
The Lord knoweth the days of the unwemmed; and their heritage shall be without end. 
They shall not be shamed in the evil time, and they shall be ful filled in the days of hunger; 
for sinners shall perish. Forsooth anon as the enemies of the Lord be honoured, and enhanced; they failing shall fail as smoke. 
A sinner shall borrow, and shall not pay back; but a just or rightwise man hath mercy, and shall give. 
For they that bless the Lord shall inherit the land; but they that curse him shall perish. 
The goings of a man shall be dressed with the Lord; and he shall delight in his way. 
When he falleth, he shall not be hurtled or hurled down; for the Lord undersetteth his hand. 
I was younger, and soothly I waxed eld; and I saw not a just or rightwise man forsaken, neither his seed seeking bread. 
All day he hath mercy, and lendeth; and his seed shall be in blessing. 
Bow thou away from evil, and do good; and dwell thou into the world of world. 
For the Lord loveth doom, and shall not forsake his saints; they shall be kept without end. Unjust men shall be punished; and the seed of wicked men shall perish. 
But just or rightwise men shall inherit the land; and shall inhabit thereon into the world of world. 
The mouth of a just or rightwise man shall bethink wisdom; and his tongue shall speak doom. 
The law of his God is in his heart; and his steps shall not be deceived. 
A sinner beholdeth a just or right-wise man; and seeketh to slay him. 
But the Lord shall not forsake him in his hands; neither he shall condemn him, when it shall be deemed against him. 
Abide thou the Lord, and keep thou his way, and he shall enhance thee, that by heritage thou take the land; when sinners shall perish, thou shalt see. 
I saw the wicked man enhanced above; and raised up as the cedars of Lebanon. 
And I passed by, and lo! he was not there; I sought him, and his place was not found. 
Keep thou innocence, and see equity; for those or they be relics or remnants to a peaceable man. 
Forsooth unjust men shall perish; the remnants or relics of wicked men shall perish altogether. 
But the health of just or rightwise men is of the Lord; and he is their defender in the time of tribulation. 
And the Lord shall help them, and shall make them free, and he shall deliver them from sinners; and he shall save them, for they hoped in him. 
