EXODUS.
Chapter 13.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Hallow thou to me each first begotten thing that openeth the womb among the sons of Israel, as well of men as of beasts, for why all be mine. 
And Moses said to the people, Have ye mind of this day, in which ye went out of Egypt, and of the house of servage, for in a strong hand the Lord led you out of this place, that ye eat no bread dighted with sourdough. 
Today ye go out, in the month of new fruits; 
and when the Lord hath led thee into the land of Canaanites, and of Hittites, and of Amorites, and of Hivites, and of Jebusites, which land he swore to thy fathers, that he should give to thee, a land flowing with milk and honey, thou shalt hallow this custom of holy things in this month. 
Seven days thou shalt eat therf loaves, and the solemnity of the Lord shall be in the seventh day; 
ye shall eat therf loaves seven days, nothing dighted with sourdough shall appear at thee, neither in all thy coasts. 
And thou shalt tell to thy son in that day, and shalt say, This it is that the Lord did to me, when I went out of Egypt. 
And it shall be as a sign in thine hand, and as a memorial before thine eyes, and that the law of the Lord be evermore in thy mouth; for in a strong hand the Lord led thee out of Egypt, and of the house of servage. 
Thou shalt keep such a worship-ping in time ordained, from days into days, that is, from year into year. 
And when the Lord hath brought thee into the land of Canaanites, as he swore to thee, and to thy fathers, and hath given it to thee, 
thou shalt separate to the Lord all male thing that openeth the womb, and that that is first in thy beasts; whatever thing thou hast of male kind, thou shalt hallow it to the Lord. 
Thou shalt exchange the first engendered of an ass for a sheep, that if thou again-buyest it not, thou shalt slay it; forsooth thou shalt again-buy with price all the first begotten of a man of thy sons. 
And when thy son shall ask thee tomorrow, and say, What is this? thou shalt answer to him, In a strong hand the Lord led us out of the land of Egypt, of the house of servage; 
for when Pharaoh was made hard in heart, and would not deliver us, the Lord slew all the first begotten thing in the land of Egypt, from the first begotten of man, till to the first engendered of beasts; therefore I offer to the Lord all thing of male kind that openeth the womb, and I again-buy all the first begotten things of my sons. 
Therefore it shall be as a sign in thine hand, and as a thing hanged for mind before thine eyes, for in a strong hand the Lord led us out of Egypt. 
Therefore when Pharaoh had sent out the people, God led not them out by the way of the land of Philistines, which is nigh; and areckoning lest peradventure it would repent the people, if he had seen battles rise against him, and the people would turn again into Egypt; 
but God led the people about by the way of desert, which way is beside the Red Sea. And the sons of Israel were armed, and went up from the land of Egypt. 
And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for he had charged the sons of Israel, and had said, God shall visit you, and bear ye out from hence my bones with you. 
And they went forth from Succoth, and setted tents in Etham, in the last ends of the wilderness. 
Forsooth the Lord went before them to show them the way, by day in a pillar of cloud, and by night in a pillar of fire, that he should be leader of the way in ever either time; 
the pillar of cloud failed never by day, neither the pillar of fire by night, before the people. 
