ISAIAH.
Chapter 65.
They sought me, that asked not before; they that sought not me, found me. I said, Lo! I, lo! I, to heathen men that knew not me, and that called not my name to help. 
I stretched forth mine hands all day to a people unbelieveful, that goeth in a way not good, after their thoughts. 
It is a people that stirreth me to wrathfulness or wrath, ever before my face; which offer in gardens, and make sacrifice on tilestones; 
which dwell in sepulchres, and sleep in the temples of idols; which eat swine’s flesh, and unholy juice, either broth, is in the vessels of them; 
which say to an heathen man, Go thou away from me, nigh thou not to me, for thou art unclean; these shall be smoke in my strong vengeance, fire burning all day. 
Lo! it is written before me; I shall not be still, but I shall yield, and I shall requite into the bosom of them 
your wickednesses, and the wickednesses of your fathers together, saith the Lord, which made sacrifice on mountains, and did shame to me on little hills; and I shall mete or measure again the first work of them in their bosom. 
The Lord saith these things, As if a grape be found in a cluster, and it is said, Destroy thou not it, for it is blessing; so I shall do for my servants, that I lose not all. 
And I shall lead out of Jacob a seed, and of Judah a man having in possession mine holy hills or holy mountains; and my chosen men shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell there. 
And the field places shall be into folds of flocks, and the valley of Achor into a resting place of droves of neat, to my people that sought me. 
And I shall number you in sword, that forsook the Lord, that forgot mine holy hill or holy mountain, which set a board to fortune, and make sacrifice thereon, 
and all ye shall fall by slaying; for that that I called, and ye answered not; I spake, and ye heard not; and ye did evil before mine eyes, and ye choosed those things which I would not. 
For these things, the Lord God saith these things, Lo! my servants shall eat, and ye shall have hunger; lo! my servants shall drink, and ye shall be thirsty; lo! my servants shall be glad, and ye shall be ashamed; 
lo! my servants shall praise, for the full joy of heart, and ye shall cry, for the sorrow of heart, and ye shall yell, for the desolation of spirit. 
And ye shall leave your name into an oath to my chosen men; and the Lord God shall slay thee, and he shall call his servants by another name. 
In which he that is blessed on earth, shall be blessed in God, amen; and he that sweareth in earth, shall swear in God faithfully; for the former anguishes be given to forgetting, and for those be hid from your eyes. 
For lo! I make new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be in mind, and shall not ascend or go up on the heart. 
But ye shall have joy, and make full out joying till into without end, in these things which I make; for lo! I make Jerusalem full out joying, and the people thereof joy. 
And I shall make full out joying in Jerusalem, and I shall have joy in my people; and the voice of weeping and the voice of cry shall no more be heard therein. 
A young child of days shall no more be there, and an eld or old man, that filleth not his days; for why a child of an hundred years shall die, and a sinner of an hundred years shall be cursed. 
And they shall build houses, and shall inhabit them, and they shall plant vines, and shall eat the fruits of those or them. 
They shall not build houses, and another shall inhabit, they shall not plant, and another shall eat; for why the days of my people shall be after the days of the tree, and the works of their hands shall be eld to my chosen men. 
They shall not travail in vain, neither they shall engender in troubling; for it is the seed of them that be blessed of the Lord, and the cousins of them be with them. 
And it shall be, before that they cry, I shall hear; yet while they speak, I shall hear. 
The wolf and the lamb shall be fed together, and a lion and an ox shall eat straw, and to a serpent dust shall be his bread; they shall not harm, neither shall slay, in all mine holy hill or holy mountain, saith the Lord. 
