1ST KINGS.
Chapter 9.
And it was done, when Solomon had performed the building of the house of the Lord, and the building of the king, and all thing that he coveted, and would make, 
the Lord appeared to Solomon the second time, as he appeared to him in Gibeon. 
And the Lord said to him, I have heard thy prayer, and thy beseeching, that thou hast besought before me; I have hallowed this house, that thou hast builded, that I should set or put there my name without end; and mine eyes and mine heart shall be there in all days. 
Also if thou goest before me, as thy father went, in simpleness of heart, and in equity, and doest all things which I have commanded to thee, and keepest my dooms, and my lawful things, 
I shall set the throne of thy realm upon Israel without end, as I spake to David, thy father, and said, A man of thy kin shall not be taken away from the throne of Israel. 
Forsooth if by turning away, ye and your sons turn away, and pursue or follow not me, and keep not my behests and ceremonies, which I have set forth to you, but ye go, and worship alien gods, and honour them, 
I shall do away Israel from the face of the land which I gave to them; and I shall cast away from my sight the temple, which I have hallowed to my name; and Israel shall be into a proverb and into a fable, to all peoples. 
And this house shall be into ensample of God’s offence; each man that shall pass by it, shall wonder, and shall hiss, and shall say, Why hath the Lord done thus to this land, and to this house? 
And they shall answer, For they forsook their Lord God, that led the fathers of them out of Egypt; and they pursued or followed alien gods, and worshipped them, and honoured them; therefore the Lord hath brought in upon them all this evil. 
Soothly when twenty years were ful filled, after that Solomon had builded twain or two houses, that is, the house of the Lord, and the house of the king, 
while Hiram, king of Tyre, gave to Solomon trees of cedar, and of fir, and gold, by all thing that he had needful; then Solomon gave to Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee. 
And Hiram went out of Tyre that he should see the cities, which Solo-mon had given to him, and those or they pleased not him; 
and he said, Whether these be the cities, which thou, brother, hast given to me? And he called those cities the land of Cabul, that is, displeasing, unto this day. 
Also Hiram sent to king Solomon sixscore talents of gold. 
This is the rent, which Solomon raised, to build the house of the Lord, and his own house, and the Millo, and the wall of Jerusalem, and Hazor, and Megiddo, and Gezer. 
For Pharaoh, king of Egypt, ascended or went up, and took Gezer, and burnt it by fire; and he killed Canaanites, that dwelled in the city, and gave it into a dower to his daughter, the wife of Solomon. 
Therefore Solomon builded Gezer, and the lower Bethhoron, 
and Baalath, and Tadmor in the land of wilderness; 
and he made strong all the towns, that pertained to him, and were with-out wall, and the cities of chariots, and the cities of knights, and what-ever thing pleased him to build in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his power. 
Solomon made tributaries unto this day all the people, that were left of the Amorites, Hittites, and Perizzites, and Hivites, and Jebusites, which be not of the sons of Israel, 
the sons of these heathen men, that dwelled in the land, that is, which the sons of Israel might not destroy. 
Soothly king Solomon ordained not any man of the sons of Israel to serve, that is, in vile works, and of the fields, but they were men of war, and servants of him, and princes, and dukes, and masters of his chariots and horses. 
And five hundred and fifty princes were sovereigns over all the works of Solomon, the which princes had the people subject to them, and command-ed to the works ordained. 
And the daughter of Pharaoh went up from the city of David into her house, which house Solomon had builded to her; then he builded the Millo. 
Also Solomon offered in three times by all years burnt sacrifices and peaceable sacrifices, on the altar which he had builded to the Lord; and he burnt incense before the Lord, and the temple was performed. 
Also king Solomon made a navy in Eziongeber, which is beside Elath, in the brink of the Red Sea, in the land of Idumea. 
And Hiram sent in that navy his servants, those who were shipmen, and knowing of the sea, with the servants of Solomon; 
and when they had come into Ophir, they brought from thence gold of four hundred and twenty talents to king Solomon. 
