ESTHER.
Chapter 2.
Therefore when these things were done, after that the indignation of king Ahasuerus was assuaged, he bethought of Vashti, and what things she had done, and what things she had suffered. 
And then the servants and the ministers of the king said to him, Fair damsels and virgins, be sought to the king; 
and be there men sent forth, which should behold by all provinces damsels who be fair and virgins; and bring they them to the city of Susa, and betake they them into the house of women, under the keeping of Hegai, the honest servant and chaste, the which is the sovereign and keeper of the king’s women; and take those damsels ornaments of women, and other things needful to their uses. 
And whichever damsel among all them pleaseth most the eyes of the king, reign she for Vashti. And this word pleased the king; and he commanded to be done so, as they counselled. 
And a man, a Jew, was in the city of Susa, Mordecai by name, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, of the generation of Benjamin; 
that was translated or borne over from Jerusalem in that time, in which Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, had translated Jeconiah, king of Judah; 
the which Mordecai was the nourisher of Hadassah, the daughter of his brother, which daughter was called Esther by another name, and she had lost both father and mother; and she was full fair, and seemly of face; and when her father and mother were dead, Mordecai took her to him, and he made her his daughter. 
And when the commandment of the king was oft published, and by his behest many fair virgins were brought to Susa, and were betaken to Hegai, the honest servant and chaste, also Esther among other damsels was betaken to him, that she should be kept in the number of those women. 
And she pleased him, and found grace in his sight, so that he hasted to take to her the ornaments of women, and he betook to Esther her parts of all things needful to her, and seven of the fairest damsels of the king’s house; and Hegai adorned and arrayed both her and those damsels following her feet. 
And Esther would not show to Hegai her people, neither her country; for Mordecai had commanded her, that in all manner she should be still of this thing. 
And Mordecai walked each day before the porch of the door, in which the chosen virgins were kept, and he did the care of the health of Esther, and would know, what befelled to her. 
And when the time of all the damsels by order was come, that they should go in to the king, and when all things were fulfilled that pertained to women’s attire, the twelfth month was turned; so only that they were anointed with the oil of myrrh by six months, and by another six months they used some pigments and sweet-smelling ointments. 
And they entered to the king, and whatever thing pertaining to their ornaments they asked for, they took it with them; and they were arrayed as it pleased to them, and then they passed forth from the chamber of women to the king’s bed. 
And she that had entered in the eventide, went out in the morrowtide; and from thence they were led forth into the second houses, that were under the hand of Shaashgaz, honest servant and chaste, that was governor of the king’s concubines; and she had not power to go again more to the king, no but the king would or desired her, and had commanded her to come by name. 
And when the time was turned about by order, the day nighed, wherein Esther, the daughter of Abihail, the brother of Mordecai, the which Esther Mordecai had taken to him, and made her his daughter, ought to enter to the king; and she asked not for women’s ornaments, but whatever things Hegai, the honest servant and chaste, and keeper of the virgins, would, he gave these things to Esther to her orna-ment; for she was full shapely, and of fairness that may not lightly be believed, and she was seen gracious and amiable to the eyes of all men. 
Therefore she was led to the bed of king Ahasuerus, in the tenth month, which is called Tebeth, in the seventh year of his realm. 
And the king loved Esther more fervently than all women, and she had grace and mercy before him over all other women; and he setted the diadem, or crown, of the realm on her head, and made her to reign in the stead of Vashti. 
And he commanded a full worshipful feast to be made ready to all his princes and servants, for the joining together and the weddings of Esther; and he gave rest, that is, releasing of tribute, to all provinces, and gave gifts, after the worshipful or honourable doing of a prince. 
And when virgins were sought also the second time, and were gathered together, Mordecai dwelled at the gate of the king. 
And Esther had not yet showed her country and her people, by the behest of Mordecai; for-why whatever thing he commanded, Esther kept, and she did so then all things, as she was wont in that time, in which he nourished her as a little child. 
Then in that time, wherein Mordecai dwelled at the gate of the king, Bigthana and Teresh, two servants of the king, were wroth against the king, that were porters, and sat in the first threshold of the palace; and they would rise against the king, and slay him. 
Which thing was not hid from Mordecai, and anon Mordecai told this to the queen Esther, and she told it to the king, in the name of Mordecai, that had told that thing to her. 
And it was sought, and it was found sooth, and either of them was hanged in a gibbet; and this was commanded to be written in the stories, and it was betaken to the books of the years, before the king. 
