ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 34.
Vain hope and a leasing to an unwise man; and dreams or swevens enhance unprudent men. 
As he that taketh or catcheth a shadow, and pursueth wind, so and he that taketh heed to leasings seen, or in vain dreams. 
After this thing is the sight of dreams or swevens; before the face of a man is the likeness of another man. 
What shall be cleansed of him that is unclean, and what true thing shall be said of a liar? Of the unclean, what shall be cleansed, and of the liar, what sooth shall be said? 
False divining of error, and false divinings by chittering of birds, and dreams of witches, is vanity. And as the heart of a woman travailing of or bearing child, thine heart suffereth fantasies; 
no but visitation is sent out of the Highest, give thou not thine heart in those dreams. 
For why dreams have made many men for to err, and men hoping in those or them fell down or fell away. 
The word of the law of God and of his prophets, shall be made perfect without leasing; and wisdom in the mouth of a faithful man shall be made plain. 
What knoweth he, that is not assayed? A man assayed in many things, shall think many things; and he that learned many things, shall tell out understanding. 
He that is not assayed or Who Is not expert, knoweth few things; forsooth he that is a fool in many things, shall multiply malice. 
What manner things know he, that is not assayed? He that is not planted, that is, hath not set root of understanding, and desire in good, shall be plenteous in wickedness or abound shrewdness. I saw many things in telling out, and full many customs of words. 
Sometime I was in peril unto death, for the cause of these things; and I was delivered by the grace of God. 
The spirit of them that dread God is sought, and shall be blessed in the beholding of him. For why the hope of them is into God saving them; and the eyes of the Lord be into them, that love him. 
He that dreadeth God, shall not tremble for anything, and he shall not dread; for why God is his hope. 
The soul of him that dreadeth the Lord, is blessed. To whom beholdeth he, and who is his strength? 
The eyes of the Lord be on them that dread him. God is a defender of might, steadfastness or firmament of virtue, covering of heat, and a sha-dowing place of midday; beseeching of offending, that is, hearing beseech-ing for offenses, and help of falling, 
enhancing the soul, and lighten-ing the eyes, and giving health, and life, and blessing. 
The offering of him that offereth of wicked thing, that is, of thing gotten unjustly, is defouled; and the scornings of unjust men be not well pleasant or well-pleasing. 
The Lord alone is to them that abide him in the way of truth, and of rightfulness or rightwiseness. The Highest approveth not the gifts of wicked men, neither beholdeth in the offerings of wicked men, neither in the multitude of their sacrifices he shall do or have mercy to their sins. 
He that offereth sacrifice of the chattel or substance of poor men, is as he that slayeth the son in the sight of his father. 
The bread of needy men is the life of a poor man; he that defraudeth him, is a man of blood. 
He that taketh away bread earned in sweat, is as he that slayeth his neighbour. He that sheddeth out blood, and he that doeth fraud to an hired man, be brethren. 
One building, and one destroy-ing; what profiteth it to them, no but travail? 
One praying, and one cursing; whose voice shall the Lord hear? 
What profiteth the washing of him, that is washed for a dead body, and toucheth again a dead body? That is baptized from the dead, and again toucheth the dead, what profit-eth his washing? 
So a man that fasteth in his sins, and again doing the same sins, what profiteth he in meeking himself? who shall hear his prayer? 
