1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 1.
Adam begat Seth; and Seth, Enos, Adam, Seth, Enos, 
Kenan, Mahalaleel, Jered, 
Henoch, Methuselah, Lamech, 
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
The sons of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, and Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras. 
Forsooth the sons of Gomer were Ashchenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah. 
And the sons of Javan were Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. 
The sons of Ham were Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. 
And the sons of Cush were Seba, and Havilah, Sabta, and Raamah, and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah were Sheba, and Dedan. 
And Cush begat Nimrod; this Nimrod began to be mighty in the earth. 
And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim, 
and Pathrusim, and Casluhim, of which the Philistines and Caphthorim went out, or came. 
And Canaan begat Sidon, his first begotten son, and Heth, 
and Jebusite, and Amorite, and Girgashite, 
and Hivite, and Arkite, and Sinite, 
and Arvadite, and Zemarite, and Hamathite. 
The sons of Shem were Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram. And the sons of Aram were Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech. 
And Arphaxad begat Shelah; which himself engendered Eber. 
And to Eber were born two sons; the name of the one was Peleg, for the land was parted in his days; and the name of his brother was Joktan. 
And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah, 
and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba, 
and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan. 
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah, 
Eber, Peleg, Reu, 
Serug, Nahor, Terah, 
Abram; this is Abraham. 
The sons of Abraham were Isaac, and Ishmael. 
And these be the generations of them; the first begotten of Ishmael was Nebaioth, and then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 
and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, Hadad, and Tema, 
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah; these be the sons of Ishmael. 
And the sons of Keturah, the secondary wife of Abraham, the which she engendered, or conceived, were Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan were Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. 
And the sons of Midian were Ephah, and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah. 
Forsooth Abraham begat Isaac; whose sons were Esau, and Israel. 
The sons of Esau were Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. 
The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek. 
The sons of Reuel were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. 
The sons of Seir were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezar, and Dishan. 
The sons of Lotan were Hori, and Homam; soothly the sister of Lotan was Timna. 
The sons of Shobal were Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, and Shephi, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon were Aiah, and Anah. 
The son of Anah was Dishon. The sons of Dishon were Amram, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 
The sons of Ezer were Bilhan, and Zavan, and Jakan. The sons of Dishan were Uz and Aran. 
These be the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before that a king was on the sons of Israel. Bela, the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
And when Bela was dead, and Jobab, the son of Zerah of Bozrah, reigned for him. 
And when Jobab was dead, Husham of the land of Temanites reigned for him. 
And Husham died; and Hadad, the son of Bedad, that smote Midian in the land of Moab, reigned for him; and the name of the city of Hadad was Avith. 
And when Hadad was dead, Samlah of Masrekah reigned for him. 
But also Samlah was dead, and Saul of Rehoboth, which is set beside the river, reigned for him. 
Also when Saul was dead, Baal-hanan, the son of Achbor, reigned for him. 
But also he was dead, and Hadad, the name of whose city was Pai, reigned for him; and his wife was called Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab. 
And when Hadad was dead, dukes began to be in Edom for kings; duke Timnah, duke Aliah, duke Jetheth, 
duke Oholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon, 
duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 
duke Magdiel, duke Iram. These were the dukes of Edom. 
