1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 8.
Forsooth Benjamin begat Bela his first begotten son, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third, 
Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth. 
And the sons of Bela were Addar, and Gera, and Abihud, 
and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah, 
but also Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram. 
These be the sons of Ehud, princes of the kindreds dwelling in Geba, that were translated or brought over into Manahath. 
And Naaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, he translated them, and he begat Uzza and Ahihud; 
and Shaharaim, he begat children in the country of Moab, after that he let go Hushim and Baara, his wives; 
and he begat of Hodesh, his new wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcham, 
also Jeuz, and Shachia, and Mirma; those be the sons of him, princes in their meines. 
And Hushim begat Abitub, and Elpaal. 
And the sons of Elpaal were Eber, and Misham, and Shamed; he builded Ono, and Lod, and his villages; 
and Beriah and Shema were princes of the kindreds dwelling in Aijalon; these drove away the dwellers of Gath; 
and Ahio, and Shashak, and Jeremoth, 
and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Ader, 
Michael forsooth, and Ispah, and Joha, the sons of Beriah; 
Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hezeki, and Heber, 
and Ishmerai, and Jezliah, and Jobab, sons of Elpaal; 
Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi, 
and Elienai, and Zilthai, and Eliel, 
and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, the sons of Shimhi; 
Ishpan, and Heber, Eliel, 
and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan, 
and Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah, 
and Iphedeiah, and Penuel, the sons of Shashak; 
Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah, 
and Jaresiah, and Eliah, and Zichri, the sons of Jeroham. 
These werethe patriarchs and princes of kindreds, that dwelled in Jerusalem. 
And in Gibeon dwelled Abigibeon, that is, Jehiel, the founder of Gibeon, and Maachah was the name of his wife; 
and his first begotten son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab, 
and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zacher, 
and Mikloth. And Mikloth begat Shimeah; and they dwelled even against their brethren in Jerusalem, with their brethren. 
And Ner begat Kish, and Kish begat Saul; and Saul begat Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal. 
And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal; and Meribbaal begat Micah. 
The sons of Micah were Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz. 
And Ahaz begat Jehoadah; and Jehoadah begat Alemeth, and Azma-veth, and Zimri. And Zimri begat Moza, 
and Moza begat Binea, whose son was Rapha, of whom was begotten Eleasah, that begat Azel. 
Soothly Azel had six sons by these names, Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan; all these were the sons of Azel. 
And the sons of Eshek, his brother, were Ulam, the first begotten son, and Jehush, the second, and Eliphelet, the third. 
And the sons of Ulam were full strong men, and bending bow with great strength, and having many sons, and sons of sons, till to an hundred and fifty. All these were the sons of Benjamin. 
