JOSHUA.
Chapter 19.
And the second lot of the sons of Simeon went out, by their meines; and the heritage of them, in the midst of the possession of the sons of Judah, 
was Beersheba, and Sheba, and Moladah, 
and Hazarshual, and Balah, and Azem, 
and Eltolad, and Bethul, and Hormah, 
and Ziklag, and Bethmarcaboth, and Hazarsusah, 
and Bethlebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities, and their towns; 
Ain, and Remmon, and Ether, and Ashan; four cities, and their towns; 
all the towns by compass of these cities, unto Baalathbeer Ramath, against the south coast, were seventeen cities. This is the heritage of the sons of Simeon, by their meines, 
in the possession and part of the sons of Judah, for it was more; and therefore the sons of Simeon had possession in the midst of the heritage thereof. 
And the third lot of the sons of Zebulun felled, by their meines; and the term of possession of the sons of Zebulun was made unto Sarid; 
and it goeth up from the sea, and from Maralah; and it cometh into Dabbasheth, unto the strand or stream that is against Jokneam; 
and it turneth again from Sarid, against the east, into the coasts of Chislothtabor; and it goeth out to Daberath; and it goeth up against Japhia; 
and from thence it passeth forth to the east coast to Gittahhepher, and to Ittahkazin; and it goeth out into Remmonmethoar, and Neah; 
and it compasseth to the north, and to Hannathon; and the goings out thereof be the valley of Jiphthahel, 
and Kattath, and Nahallal, and Shimron, and Idalah, and Bethlehem; twelve cities, and their towns. 
This is the heritage of the lineage of the sons of Zebulun, by their meines, and these be the cities and their towns and villages. 
The fourth lot went out to Issachar, by his meines; 
and the heritage thereof was Jez-reel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem, 
and Haphraim, and Shihon, and Anaharath, 
and Rabbith, and Kishion, Abez, 
and Remeth, and Engannim, and Enhaddah, and Bethpazzez. 
And the term thereof cometh unto Tabor, and Shahazimah, and Bethshe-mesh; and the outgoings thereof were Jordan; sixteen cities, and their towns. 
This is the possession of the sons of Issachar, by their meines, the cities and the towns of those or them. 
And the fifth lot felled to the lineage of the sons of Asher, by their meines; 
and the term of them was Helkath, and Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph, 
and Alammelech, and Amad, and Misheal; and it cometh till to Carmel of the sea, and Shihor, and Libnath; 
and it turneth again, against the east, to Bethdagon; and it passeth unto Zebulun, and to the valley of Jiphthahel, against the north, into Bethemek, and Neiel; and it goeth out to the left side to Cabul, 
and Hebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah, unto Great Sidon; 
and it turneth again into Ramah, unto the strongest city Tyre, and unto Hosah; and the outgoings thereof shall be into the sea, from the part of Achzib, 
and Ummah, and Aphek, and Rehob; two and twenty cities, and their towns. 
This is the possession of the sons of Asher, by their meines, and their cities, and their towns. 
The sixth lot of the sons of Naphtali felled, by their meines; 
and the term began from Heleph, and Allon, and Zaanannim, and Adami, which is Nekeb, and Jabneel, till to Lakum; and the outgoings of them till to Jordan; 
and the term turneth again, against the west, into Aznoth of Tabor; and from thence it goeth out into Hukkok, and it passeth into Zebulun, against the south, and into Asher, against the west, and into Judah, at Jordan, against the rising of the sun; 
of the strongest city Ziddim, Zer, and Hammath, and Rakkath, Chinnereth, 
and Adamah, and Ramah, Hazor, 
and Kedesh, and Edrei, Enhazor, 
and Iron, and Migdalel, Horem, and Bethanath, and Bethshemesh; nineteen cities, and their towns. 
This is the possession of the lineage of the sons of Naphtali, by their meines, the cities, and the towns of those or them. 
The seventh lot went out to the lineage of the sons of Dan, by their meines; 
and the term of the possession thereof was Zorah, and Eshtaol, and Irshemesh, that is, the city of the sun, 
Shaalabbin, and Ajalon, and Jethlah, 
Elon, and Thimnathah, and Ekron, 
Eltekeh, Gibbethon, and Baalath, 
Jehud, and Beneberak, and Gath-rimmon, 
and Mejarkon, and Rakkon, with the term that beholdeth Joppa, and is closed with that end. 
And the sons of Dan went up, and fought against Leshem; and they took it, and they smote it by the sharpness of sword, and they had it in possession, and dwelled therein; and they called the name thereof Leshem Dan, by the name of Dan, their father. 
This is the possession of the lineage of Dan, by their meines, the cities, and the towns of those or them. 
And when they had fulfilled to part the land by lot to all men by their lineages, the sons of Israel gave possession to Joshua, the son of Nun, in the midst of them, 
by the commandment of the Lord, the city which he asked, Timnathserah, in the hill of Ephraim; and he builded the city, and dwelled therein. 
These be the possessions which Eleazar, the priest, and Joshua, the son of Nun, and the princes of the meines, and of the lineages of the sons of Israel, parted by lot in Shiloh, before the Lord, at the door of the tabernacle of witnessing; and they parted the land. 
