PHILIPPIANS.
Chapter 3.
Henceforward, my brethren, have ye joy in the Lord. To write to you the same things, to me it is not slow, and to you it is necessary. 
See ye hounds, see ye evil work-men, see ye division or concision. 
For we be circumcision, which by Spirit serve to God, and glory in Christ Jesus, and have not trust in the flesh, 
though I have trust, yea, in the flesh. If any other man is seen to trust in the flesh, I more, 
that was circumcised in the eighth day, of the kin or the kindred of Israel, of the lineage of Benjamin, an Hebrew of Hebrews, by the law a Pharisee, 
by love pursuing the church of God, by rightwiseness that is in the law living without complaint. 
But which things were to me winnings, I have deemed these impairings for Christ. 
Nevertheless I guess all things to be impairment for the clear science of Jesus Christ my Lord. For whom I made all things impairment, and I deem as drit or as turds, that I win Christ, 
and that I be found in him, not having my rightwiseness that is of the law, but that that is of the faith of Christ Jesus, that is of God the right-wiseness in faith, 
to know him, and the virtue of his rising again, and the fellowship of his passion, and to be made like or configured to his death, 
if on any manner I come to the resurrection that is from death. 
Not that now I have taken, or now I am perfect; but I pursue, if in any manner I comprehend or I take in which thing also I am compre-hended of Jesus Christ. 
Brethren, I deem me not that I have comprehended; but one thing, I forget those things that be behind, and stretching forth myself to those things that be before, 
and pursue to the ordained meed or to the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. 
Therefore whoever we be perfect, feel we this thing. And if ye under-stand in other manner anything, this thing God shall show to you. 
Nevertheless to what thing we have come, that we understand the same thing, and that we perfectly dwell in the same rule. 
Brethren, be ye my followers, and wait ye them that walk so, as ye have our form. 
For many walk, which I have said oft to you, but now I weeping say, them, the enemies of Christ’s cross, 
whose end is death, whose god is the womb, and the glory in the confusion of them, that savour or that understand earthly things. 
But our living is in heavens or in heaven; from whence also we abide the Saviour our Lord Jesus Christ, 
which shall reform the body of our meekness, that is made like or configured to the body of his clearness, by the working by which he may also make all things subject to him. 
