NUMBERS.
Chapter 26.
After that the blood of guilty men was shed out, the Lord said to Moses and to Eleazar, the priest, the son of Aaron, 
Reckon ye all the number of the sons of Israel, from twenty years and above, by their houses, and their kindreds, all men that be able to go forth to battles. 
And so Moses and Eleazar, the priest, spake in the field places of Moab, over Jordan, against Jericho, 
to them that were of twenty years and above, as the Lord commanded; of which this is the number. 
Reuben, the first begotten of Israel; the son of him was Hanoch, of whom came the meine of Hanochites; and Pallu, of whom came the meine of Palluites; 
and Hezron, of whom came the meine of Hezronites; and Carmi, of whom came the meine of Carmites. 
These were the meines of the generation of Reuben, of which meines the number was found three and forty thousand seven hundred and thirty. 
The son of Pallu was Eliab; 
the sons of him were Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. These were Dathan and Abiram, the princes of the people, that rose against Moses and Aaron, in the rebelty of Korah, when they rebelled against the Lord; 
and the earth opened his mouth, and devoured Korah, and full many men died, when the fire burnt two hundred men and fifty; and a great miracle was done, 
that when Korah perished, his sons perished not. 
The sons of Simeon by their kindreds; Nemuel, of him was the meine of Nemuelites; Jamin, of him the meine of Jaminites; Jachin, of him the meine of Jachinites; 
Zerah, of him the meine of Zarhites; Shaul, of him the meine of Shaulites. 
These were the meines of Simeon, of which all the number was two and twenty thousand and two hundred. 
The sons of Gad by their kindreds; Zephon, of him the meine of Zephonites; Haggi, of him the meine of Haggites; Shuni, of him the meine of Shunites; 
Ozni, of him the meine of Oznites; Eri, of him the meine of Erites; 
Arod, of him the meine of Arodites; Areli, of him the meine of Arelites. 
These were the meines of Gad, of which all the number was forty thousand and five hundred. 
The sons of Judah were Er and Onan, which both were dead in the land of Canaan. 
And the sons of Judah were these by their kindreds; Shelah, of whom came the meine of Shelanites; Perez, of him the meine of Perezites; Zerah, of him the meine of Zarhites. 
Soothly the sons of Perez were Hezron, of him the meine of Hezronites; and Hamul, of him the meine of Hamulites. 
These were the meines of Judah, of which all the number was seventy thousand and five hundred. 
The sons of Issachar by their kindreds; Tola, of him the meine of Tolaites; Pua, of him the meine of Punites; 
Jashub, of him the meine of Jashubites; Shimron, of him the meine of Shimronites. 
These were the kindreds of Issachar, of which the number was four and sixty thousand and three hundred. 
The sons of Zebulun by their kindreds; Sered, of him the meine of Sardites; Elon, of him the meine of Elonites; Jahleel, of him the meine of Jahleelites. 
These were the kindreds of Zebulun, of which the number was sixty thousand and five hundred. 
The sons of Joseph by their kindreds were Manasseh and Ephraim. 
Of Manasseh was born Machir, of him the meine of Machirites. Machir begat Gilead, of him, the meine of Gileadites. 
Gilead had these sons; Jeezer, of him the meine of Jeezerites; and Helek, of him the meine of Helekites; 
and Asriel, of him the meine of Asrielites; and Shechem, of him the meine of Shechemites; 
and Shemida, of him the meine of Shemidaites; and Hepher, of him the meine of Hepherites. 
Soothly Hepher was the father of Zelophehad, that had not sons, but only daughters; of which these were the names; Mahlah, and Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah. 
These were the meines of Manasseh, and the number of them was two and fifty thousand and seven hundred. 
Soothly the sons of Ephraim by their kindreds were these; Shuthelah, of him the meine of Shuthalhites; Becher, of him the meine of Bachrites; Tahan, of him the meine of Tahanites. 
Soothly the son of Shuthelah was Eran, of him the meine of Eranites. 
These were the kindreds of the sons of Ephraim, of which the number was two and thirty thousand and five hundred. These were the sons of Joseph, by their meines. 
The sons of Benjamin in their kindreds; Bela, of him the meine of Belaites; Ashbel, of him the meine of Ashbelites; Ahiram, of him the meine of Ahiramites; 
Shupham, of him the meine of Shuphamites; Hupham, of him the meine of Huphamites. 
The sons of Bela, Ard and Naaman; of Ard, the meine of Ardites; of Naaman, the meine of Naamites. 
These were the sons of Benjamin by their kindreds, of which the number was five and forty thousand and six hundred. 
The sons of Dan by their kindreds; Shuham, of him the meine of Shuhamites. These were the kindreds of Dan by their meines; 
all were Shuhamites, of which the number was four and sixty thousand and four hundred. 
The sons of Asher by their kindreds; Jimna, of him the meine of Jimnites; Jesui, of him the meine of Jesuites; Beriah, of him the meine of Beriites. 
The sons of Beriah; Heber, of him the meine of Heberites; and Malchiel, of him the meine of Malchielites. 
Soothly the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah. 
These were the kindreds of the sons of Asher, and the number of them was four and fifty thousand and four hundred. 
The sons of Naphtali by their kindreds; Jahzeel, of him the meine of Jahzeelites; Guni, of him the meine of Gunites; 
Jezer, of him the meine of Jezerites; Shillem, of him the meine of Shillemites. 
These were the kindreds of the sons of Naphtali by their meines, of which the number was five and forty thousand and four hundred. 
This is the sum of the sons of Israel, that were numbered, six hun-dred thousand and a thousand seven hundred and thirty. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
The land shall be parted to these, by the number of names into their possessions; 
thou shalt give the greater part to the more men, and the less part to the fewer men; possession shall be given to all by themselves, as they be numbered now; 
so only that lot part the land to lineages and to meines. 
Whatever thing befalleth by lot, either more, either fewer men, take that. 
Also this is the number of the sons of Levi by their meines; Gershon, of whom is the meine of Gershonites; Kohath, of him the meine of Kohathites; Merari, of him the meine of Merarites. 
These were the meines of Levi; the meine of Libni, the meine of Hebron, the meine of Mahli, the meine of Mushi, the meine of Korah. And soothly Kohath begat Amram, 
which had a wife, Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, which daughter was born to him in Egypt. This Jochebed engendered to her husband Amram, sons, Aaron and Moses, and Marie, the sister of them. 
Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar were begotten of Aaron; 
of which Nadab and Abihu were dead, when they had offered alien fire before the Lord. 
And all that were numbered of this lineage were three and twenty thousand of male kind, from a month and above, which were not numbered among the sons of Israel, neither possession was given to them with other men. 
This is the number of the sons of Israel, that be described of Moses and Eleazar, the priest, in the field places of Moab, over Jordan, against Jericho; 
among which none of them was that were numbered before of Moses and Aaron, in the desert of Sinai; 
for the Lord before-said, that all should die in the wilderness; and none of them dwelled alive, but Caleb, Jephunneh’s son, and Joshua, the son of Nun. 
