EZEKIEL.
Chapter 10.
And I saw, and lo! in the firmament that was on the heads of cherubims or cherubim, as a sapphire stone, and as the form of likeness of a king’s seat appeared thereon. 
And he said to the man that was clothed in linen clothes, and spake, Enter thou in the midst of the wheels, that be under cherubims or cherubim, and fill thine hand with coals of fire, that be betwixt cherubims or cherubim, and shed thou out on the city. And he entered in my sight; 
forsooth cherubims stood at the right side of the house of the Lord, when the man entered, and a cloud filled the inner foreyard. 
And the glory of the Lord was raised up from above cherubims or cherubim to the threshold of the house; and the house was filled with a cloud, and the foreyard was filled with shining of the glory of the Lord. 
And the sound of wings of cherubims or cherubim was heard till to the outermore foreyard, as the voice of Almighty God speaking. 
And when he had commanded to the man that was clothed in linen clothes, and had said, Take thou fire from the midst of the wheels, that be betwixt cherubims or cherubim, he entered, and stood beside the wheels. 
And cherub stretched forth his hand from the midst of cherubims or cherubim, to the fire that was betwixt cherubims or cherubim; and took, and gave into the hands of him that was clothed in linen clothes; and he took, and went out. 
And the likeness of the hand of a man appeared in cherubims or cherubim, under the wings of those or them. 
And I saw, and lo! four wheels were beside cherubims or cherubim; one wheel beside one cherub, and another wheel beside another cherub; forsooth the likeness of wheels was as the sight of the stone chrysolyte. 
And the beholding of those or themwas one likeness of four, as if a wheel be in the midst of a wheel. 
And when they went, they went into four parts; those or they turned not again going, but to the place to which that that was the first wheel bowed to go, also the others followed, and turned not again. 
And all the body of those wheels, and the necks, and hands, and wings of the beasts, and the circles, were full of eyes, in the compass of four wheels. 
And he called those wheels voluble, or able to go all about, in mine hearing. 
Forsooth one beast had four faces; one face was the face of cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and in the third was the face of a lion, and in the fourth was the face of an eagle; 
and the cherubims were raised up. That is the beast, which I had seen beside the flood Chebar. 
And when cherubims went, also the wheels beside those or them went together with them; when the cherubims raised up their wings, that those or they should be enhanced from the earth, the wheels abided not still, but also those or they were beside cherubims. 
The wheels stood with those cherubims standing, and were raised up with the cherubims raised up; for the spirit of life was in those wheels. 
And the glory of the Lord went out from the threshold of the temple, and stood on the cherubims or cherubim. 
And the cherubims raised up their wings, and were enhanced from the earth before me; and when those went out, also the wheels pursued; and it stood in the entering of the east gate of the house of the Lord, and the glory of God of Israel was on those. 
That is the beast, which I saw under God of Israel, beside the flood Chebar. And I understood that four cherubims were; 
four faces were to one, and four wings to one; and the likeness of the hand of a man was under the wings of those or them. 
And the likeness of the cheers of those or themwere those cheers which I had seen beside the flood Chebar; and the beholding of those or them, and the fierceness of each, was to enter before his face. 
