MATTHEW.
Chapter 1.
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. 
Abraham begat Isaac. Isaac begat Jacob. Jacob begat Judah and his brethren. 
Judah begat Perez and Zara, of Thamar. Perez begat Esrom. Esrom begat Aram. 
Aram begat Amminadab. Ammin-adab begat Naasson. Naasson begat Salmon. 
Salmon begat Boaz, of Rachab. Boaz begat Obed, of Ruth. Obed begat Jesse. 
Jesse begat David the king. David the king begat Solomon, of her that was Uriah’s wife. 
Solomon begat Rehoboam. Reho-boam begat Abia. Abia begat Asa. 
Asa begat Jehoshaphat. Jehosha-phat begat Joram. Joram begat Uzziah. 
Uzziah begat Joatham. Joatham begat Ahaz. Ahaz begat Hezekiah. 
Hezekiah begat Manasseh. Manas-seh begat Amon. Amon begat Josiah. 
Josiah begat Jechoniah and his brethren, into the transmigration of Babylon. 
And after the transmigration of Babylon, Jechoniah begat Salathiel. Salathiel begat Zerubbabel. 
Zerubbabel begat Abiud. Abiud begat Eliakim. Eliakim begat Azor. 
Azor begat Zadok. Zadok begat Achim. Achim begat Elihud. 
Elihud begat Eleazar. Eleazar begat Matthan. Matthan begat Jacob. 
Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, that is called Christ. 
And so all the generations from Abraham to David be fourteen generations, and from David to the transmigration of Babylon be fourteen generations, and from the trans-migration of Babylon to Christ be fourteen generations. 
But the generation of Christ was thus. When Mary, the mother of Jesus, was espoused to Joseph, before that they came together, she was found having of the Holy Ghost in the womb. 
And Joseph, her husband, for he was rightful or a just man, and would not publish her, he would privily have left her. 
But while he thought these things, lo! the angel of the Lord appeared to him in sleep, and said, Joseph, the son of David, do not thou dread to take Mary, thy wife; for that thing that is born in her is of the Holy Ghost. 
And she shall bear a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus; for he shall make his people safe from their sins. 
For all this thing was done, that it should be fulfilled, that was said of the Lord by a prophet, saying, 
Lo! a virgin shall have in the womb, and she shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, that is to say, God with us. 
And Joseph rose up from sleep, and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took Mary, his wife; 
and he knew her not, till she had born her first begotten son, and he called his name Jesus. 
