GALATIANS.
Chapter 3.
O! unwitting Galatians, before whose eyes Jesus Christ is exiled, or O! ye witless men of Galatia, before whose eyes Jesus Christ is damned or condemned, and is crucified in you, who hath deceived you, that ye obey not to truth? 
This only I desire to learn of you, whether ye have received the Spirit of the works of the law, or of hearing of belief? 
So ye be fools, that when ye have begun in Spirit, now ye be ended in flesh. 
So great things or So many things ye have suffered without cause, if it be without cause. 
He that giveth to you the Spirit, and worketh virtues in you, whether of the works of the law, or of hearing of belief? or of faith? 
As it is written, Abraham believed to God, and it was reckoned to him to rightwiseness. 
And therefore know ye, that these that be of belief or they that be of faith, be the sons of Abraham. 
And the scripture seeing afar, that God justifieth the heathen of belief, or Forsooth the scripture purveying, for God justifieth of faith heathen men, told before to Abraham, That in thee all the heathen or all folks shall be blessed. 
And therefore these that be of belief, or they that be of faith, shall be blessed with faithful Abraham. 
For all that be of the works of the law, be under curse; for it is written, Each man is cursed, that abideth not or that dwelleth not in all things that be written in the book of the law, to do those things. 
And that no man is justified in the law before God, it is open, for a rightful man liveth of belief. Forsooth for no man is justified in the law with God, it is known, for a rightful man liveth by faith. 
But the law is not of belief, but he that doeth those things of the law, shall live in them. 
But Christ again-bought us or delivered us from the curse of the law, and was made accursed for us; for it is written, Each man is cursed that hangeth in the tree; 
that among the heathen the blessing of Abraham were made in Jesus Christ, that we receive the promise of Spirit through belief. that the blessing of Abraham in heathen men should be made in Christ Jesus, that we take the promise of Spirit by faith. 
Brethren, I say after man, no man despiseth the testament of a man that is confirmed, or ordaineth above other thing. 
The promises were said to Abraham and to his seed; he saith not, In the seeds, as in many, but as in one, And to thy seed, that is, Christ. 
But I say, this testament is confirmed of God; the law that was made after four hundred and thirty years, maketh not the testament vain to void away the promise or maketh not void for to do away the promise. 
For if the heritage were of the law, it were not now of promise. But God granted or gave to Abraham through promise. 
What then the law? that is, Whereto is the law profitable? or What therefore profiteth the law? It was set for trespassing, till the seed came, to whom he had made the promise. Which law was ordained by angels, in the hand of a mediator. 
But a mediator is not of one. But God is one. 
Is then the law against the promises of God? God forbid. For if the law were given, that might quicken, verily were rightfulness of law, or verily rightwiseness were of law. 
But the scripture hath concluded all things under sin, that the promise of the faith of Jesus Christ were given to them that believe. 
And before that belief came, they were kept under the law, enclosed into that belief that was to be showed. Forsooth before that the faith came, we were kept under the law, shut together into that faith that was to be showed. 
And so the law was our under-master in Christ, that we be justified of belief or of faith. 
But after that belief came, we be not now under the undermaster. But after that the faith came, now we be not under the little master. 
For all ye be the children of God through the belief of Jesus Christ. For all ye be the sons of God by faith in Christ Jesus. 
For all ye that be baptized, be clothed with Christ. 
There is no Jew, nor Greek, no bondman, nor free man, no male, nor female; for all ye be one in Christ Jesus. 
And if ye be one in Jesus Christ, then ye be the seed of Abraham, and heirs by promise. 
