PSALMS.
Chapter 104.
My soul, bless thou the Lord; my Lord God, thou art magnified greatly. Thou hast clothed acknowledging and fairness; 
and thou art clothed with light, as with a cloth. And thou stretchest forth heaven as a skin; 
and thou coverest with waters the higher parts thereof. Which settest a cloud thy ascending; which goest on the feathers of winds. 
Which makest spirits thine angels; and thy ministers a burning fire. 
Which hast founded the earth on his stableness; it shall not be bowed into the world of world. 
The depth of waters as a cloth is the clothing thereof; waters shall stand on hills. 
Those or they shall flee from thy blaming; men shall be afeared of the voice of thy thunder. 
Hills go up, and fields go down; into the place which thou hast founded to those or them. 
Thou hast set a term, which they shall not pass; neither those or they shall be turned, for to cover the earth. 
And thou sendest out wells into great valleys; waters shall pass betwixt the midst of hills. 
All the beasts of the field shall drink; wild asses shall abide in their thirst, that is, to be filled in their thirst. 
The Birds of the air shall dwell on those; from the midst of the stones they shall give voices. 
And thou moistest the hills of their higher things; the earth shall be ful filled of the fruit of thy works. 
And thou bringest forth hay to beasts; and herb to the service of men. That thou bring forth bread of the earth; 
and that wine make glad the heart of men. That he make glad the face with oil; and that bread make steadfast the heart of man. 
The trees of the field shall be full-filled, and the cedars of the Lebanon, which he planted; 
sparrows shall make nest there. The house of the gyrfalcon is the leader of those or them; 
high hills be refuge to harts; the stone is refuge to urchins. 
He made the moon into times; the sun knew his going down. 
Thou hast set darknesses, and night is made; all beasts of the wood shall go therein. 
Lions’ whelps roaring for to ravish; and to seek of God meat to them-selves. 
The sun is risen, and those or they be gathered together; and those or they shall be set in their couches. 
A man shall go out to his work; and to his working, till to the eventide. 
Lord, thy works be magnified full much, thou hast made all things in wisdom; the earth is filled with thy possessions. 
This sea is great and large to hands; there be creeping beasts, of which is no number. Little beasts with the great; 
ships shall pass there. This dragon which thou hast formed, for to scorn him. 
All things abide of thee; that thou give to them meat in time. 
When thou shalt give to them, they shall gather; when thou shalt open thine hand, all things shall be filled with goodness. 
But when thou shalt turn away thy face, they shall be troubled; thou shalt take away the spirit of them, and they shall fail; and they shall turn again into their dust. 
Send out thy spirit, and they shall be formed of the new or reformed of new; and thou shalt renew the face of the earth. 
The glory of the Lord be into the world; the Lord shall be glad in his works. 
Which beholdeth the earth, and maketh it to tremble; which toucheth hills, and those or they smoke. 
I shall sing to the Lord in my life; I shall say psalm to my God, as long as I am. 
My speech be merry or mirth to him; forsooth I shall delight in the Lord. 
Sinners fail from the earth, and wicked men fail, so that they be not; my soul, bless thou the Lord. 
