JEREMIAH.
Chapter 11.
The word that was made of the Lord to Jeremy, and said, 
Hear ye the words of this covenant, and speak ye to the men of Judah, and to the dwellers of Jerusalem; 
and thou shalt say to them, The Lord God of Israel saith these things, Cursed be the man that heareth not the words of this covenant, 
which I commanded to your fathers, in the day in which I led them out of the land of Egypt, from the iron furnace; and I said, Hear ye my voice, and do ye all things which I commanded to you, and ye shall be into a people to me, and I shall be into God to you; 
that I raise the oath which I swore to your fathers, that I should give to them a land flowing with milk and honey, as this day is. And I answered, and said, Amen, Lord. 
And the Lord said to me, Cry thou out all these words in the cities of Judah, and withoutforth Jerusalem, and say thou, Hear ye the words of this covenant, and do ye them; 
for I witnessing have witnessed to your fathers, in the day in which I led them out of the land of Egypt, unto this day; I rose early, and witnessed, and said, Hear ye my voice. 
And they heard not, neither bowed down their ear, but they went forth each man in the shrewdness of his evil heart; and I brought in on them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded that they should do, and they did not. 
And the Lord said to me, Swearing together is found in the men of Judah, and in the dwellers of Jerusalem; 
they turned again to the former wickednesses of their fathers, that would not hear my words; and therefore these men went after alien gods, for to serve them; the house of Israel and the house of Judah made void my covenant, which I made with the fathers of them. 
Wherefore the Lord saith these things, Lo! I shall bring in on them evils, of which they shall not be able to go out; and they shall cry to me, and I shall not hear them. 
And the cities of Judah and the dwellers of Jerusalem shall go, and shall cry to them to which they offer sacrifices; and they shall not save them in the time of their torment. 
For thou, Judah, thy gods were by the number of thy cities, and thou settedest altars of shame, by the number of the ways of Jerusalem, altars to offer sacrifices to Baalim. 
Therefore do not thou pray for this people, and take thou not praising and prayer for them; for I shall not hear in the time of the cry of them to me, in the time of the torment of them. 
What is it, that my darling doeth many great trespasses in mine house? whether holy fleshes shall do away from thee thy malice, in which thou hast glory? 
The Lord called thy name an olive tree, fair, full of fruit, shapely; at the voice of a great speech, fire burnt on high therein, and the bushes thereof be burnt. 
And the Lord of hosts that planted thee, spake evil on thee, for the evils of the house of Israel, and of the house of Judah, which they did to themselves, and offered to Baalim, to stir me to wrath. 
Forsooth, Lord, thou showedest to me, and I knew; thou showedest to me the studies of them. 
And I am as a mild lamb, which is borne to slain sacrifice; and I knew not, that they thought counsels on me, and said, Send we a tree into the bread of him, and raze we him away from the land of livers, and his name be no more had in mind. 
But thou, Lord of hosts, that deemest justly or rightwisely, and provest reins and hearts, see I thy vengeance of them; for to thee I showed my cause. 
Therefore the Lord saith these things to the men of Anathoth, that seek thy life, and say, Thou shalt not prophesy in the name of the Lord, and thou shalt not die in our hands. 
Therefore the Lord of hosts saith these things, Lo! I shall visit on them; the young men of them shall die by sword, the sons of them, and the daughters of them, shall die for hunger; 
and no remnants, either children left, shall be of them; for I shall bring in evil on the men of Anathoth, the year of the visitation of them. 
