JOB.
Chapter 13.
Lo! mine eye, saith Job, hath seen all things, and mine ear hath heard; and I understood all things. 
Even with your knowing, also I know, and I am not lower than ye. 
But nevertheless I shall speak to Almighty God, and I covet to dispute with God; 
and first I show you makers of lies, and lovers or favourers of wayward teachings. 
And I would, that ye were still, that ye were guessed to be wise men. 
Therefore hear ye my chastisings; and perceive ye the doom of my lips. 
Whether God hath need to your leasing, that ye speak guileful things or treacheries for him? 
Whether ye take his face, and enforce or endeavour to deem for God? 
Either it shall please him, from whom nothing may be hid? Whether he, as a man, shall be deceived by your falsenesses? 
He shall reprove you; for ye take his face in huddles. 
Anon as he shall stir or move him, he shall trouble you; and his dread shall fall upon you. 
Your mind shall be comparisoned to ashes; and your nolls shall be driven down into clay. 
Be ye still a little, that I speak, whatever thing my mind hath showed to me. 
Why rend I my flesh with my teeth, and bear my life in mine hands? 
Yea, though God slay me, I shall hope in him; nevertheless I shall prove my ways in his sight. 
And he shall be my saviour; for why each hypocrite shall not come in his sight. 
Hear ye my word, and perceive ye with your ears my dark and hard privy or hard figurative speeches. 
If I shall be deemed, I know that I shall be found just or rightwise. 
Who is he that is deemed with me? Come he; why am I still, and am wasted? 
Do thou not to me two things only; and then I shall not be hid from thy face. 
Make thine hand far from me; and thy dread make not me afeared. 
Call thou me, and I shall answer thee; either certainly I shall speak, and thou shalt answer me. 
How great sins and wickednesses have I? Show thou to me my felonies, and my trespasses. 
Why hidest thou thy face, and deemest me thine enemy? 
Thou showest thy might against a leaf, that is ravished away with the wind; and thou pursuest dry stubble. 
For thou writest bitternesses against me; and wilt waste me with the sins of my young waxing age. 
Thou hast set or put my foot in a stock, and thou hast kept all my paths; and thou hast beheld the steps of my feet. 
And I shall be wasted as rot, and as a cloth, that is eaten of a moth. 
