EZEKIEL.
Chapter 41.
And he led me into the temple, and he meted the posts, six cubits of breadth on this side, and six cubits of breadth on that side, the breadth of the tabernacle. 
And the breadth of the gate was of ten cubits; and he meted the sides of the gate by five cubits on this side, and by five cubits on that side; and he meted the length thereof by forty cubits, and the breadth of twenty cubits. 
And he entered within, and he meted in the post of the gate, two cubits; and he meted the gate of six cubits, and the breadth of the gate of seven cubits. 
And he meted the length thereof of twenty cubits, and the breadth of twenty cubits, before the face of the temple. And he said to me, This is the holy thing of holy things. 
And he meted the wall of the house of the Lord of six cubits, and the breadth of the side chambers of four cubits, on each side by compass of the house. 
Forsooth the sides were twice three and thirty, the side to the side; and those or they were standing on high, that entered by the wall of the house, in those sides by compass, that those or they held together, and touched not the wall of the temple. 
And a street was in round, and went upward by a vice, and bare into the solar of the temple by compass; therefore the temple was broader in the higher things; and so from the lower things men ascended to the higher things, and into the midst. 
And I saw in the house an highness by compass, the sides founded at the measure of a reed in the space of six cubits; 
and the breadth of the wall of the side withoutforth, of five cubits; and the inner house was in the sides of the house. 
And betwixt chambers I saw the breadth of twenty cubits in the compass of the house on each side; 
and I saw the doors of the side to prayer; one door to the way of the north, and one door to the way of the south; and I saw the breadth of place to prayer, of five cubits in compass. 
And the building that was joined to the place separated, and turned to the way beholding to the sea, of the breadth of seventy cubits; soothly the wall of the building of five cubits of breadth by compass, and the length thereof of ninety cubits. 
And he meted the length of the house, of an hundred cubits; and that place that was separated, and the building, and the walls thereof, of the length of an hundred cubits. 
Forsooth the breadth of the street before the face of the house, and of that place that was separated against the east, was of an hundred cubits. 
And he meted the length of the building against the face of that place that was separated at the back; he meted the buttresses on ever either side, of an hundred cubits. And he meted the inner temple, and the porches of the foreyard, 
lintels, and windows narrow with-outforth and broad within; buttresses in compass by three parts, against the lintel of each, and arrayed with wood by compass all about; soothly from the earth till to the windows, and the windows were enclosed 
on the doors, and till to the inner house, and withoutforth by all the walls in compass, within and without-forth at measure. 
And cherubims and palm trees were made craftily, and there was a palm tree betwixt cherub and cherub; and each cherub had two faces, 
so that the face of a man was beside the palm tree on this side, and the face of a lion expressed beside the palm tree on the tother side. By all the house in compass, 
from the earth till to the higher part, cherubims and palm trees were engraved in the walls of the temple. 
A threshold was four-cornered; and the face of the beholding of the saintuary was over against the beholding of the altar of wood; 
the height thereof was of three cubits, and the length thereof two cubits; and the corners thereof, and the length thereof, and the walls thereof, were of wood. And he spake to me, This is the board before the Lord. 
And two doors were in the temple, and in the saintuary. 
And in the two doors on ever either side were two little doors, that were folded together in themselves; for why two doors were on ever either side of the doors. 
And the cherubims, and the engraving of palm trees, were engraved in the doors of the temple, as also those or they were expressed in the walls. Wherefore and greater beams were in the front of the porch with-outforth, 
on which the windows narrow without and large within, and the likeness of palm trees were on this side and on that side; in the little shoulders, either undersettings, of the porch, by the sides of the house, and by the breadth of the walls. 
