GENESIS.
Chapter 28.
And so Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and commanded to him, and said, Do not thou take a wife of the kin of Canaan; 
but go thou, and walk forth into Mesopotamia of Syria, to the house of Bethuel, the father of thy mother, and take to thee from thence a wife of the daughters of Laban, thine uncle. 
Soothly Almighty God bless thee, and make thee to increase, and multiply thee, that thou be into companies of peoples; 
and God give to thee the blessing of Abraham, and to thy seed after thee, that thou wield the land of thy pilgrimage, which he promised to thy grand-sire. 
And when Isaac had let go Jacob, he went forth, and came into Mesopotamia of Syria, to Laban, the son of Bethuel of Syria, the brother of Rebecca, his mother. 
Forsooth Esau saw that his father had blessed Jacob, and had sent him into Mesopotamia of Syria, that he should wed a wife of thence, and that after the blessing he commanded to Jacob, and said, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan; 
and that Jacob obeyed to his father and mother, and went into Syria; 
also Esau proved thereby that his father beheld not gladly the daughters of Canaan. 
And Esau went to Ishmael, and wedded a wife, without these which he had before, Mahalath, the daughter of Ishmael, son of Abraham, the sister of Nebajoth. 
Therefore Jacob went out of Beersheba, and went to Haran. 
And when he had come to some place, and would rest therein after the going down of the sun, he took of the stones that lay there, and he put under his head, and slept in the same place. 
And he saw in his sleep a ladder standing on the earth, and the top thereof touching heaven; and he saw God’s angels ascending or going up and going down thereby, 
and the Lord nighed to the ladder, saying to him, I am the Lord God of Abraham, thy father, and God of Isaac; I shall give to thee and to thy seed the land in which thou sleepest. 
And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, thou shalt be alarged to the east, and west, and to the north, and south; and all the lineages of the earth shall be blessed in thee and in thy seed. 
And I shall be thy keeper, whither ever thou shalt go; and I shall lead thee again into this land, and I shall not leave thee, no but I shall fulfill all the things which I have said. 
And when Jacob had waked of the sleep, he said, Verily the Lord is in this place, and I knew not. 
And he said dreading, How fearedful, or worshipful, is this place! Here is none other thing, no but the house of God, and the gate of heaven. 
Therefore Jacob rose early, and took the stone which he had put under his head, and raised it up into a title, or sign, and poured out oil above. 
And he called the name of that city Bethel, which was called Luz before. 
Also Jacob avowed a vow, and said, If God is with me, and keepeth me in the way in which I go, and giveth to me loaves to eat, and clothes to be clothed with, 
and I turn again in prosperity to the house of my father, the Lord shall be into God to me. 
And this stone, which I raised into a title, shall be called the house of God; and I shall offer tithes to thee of all things which thou shalt give to me. 
