EXODUS.
Chapter 25.
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Speak thou to the sons of Israel, that they take to me the first fruits; of each man that offereth willfully, ye shall take those things. 
Forsooth these things it be, which ye shall take, gold, and silver, and brass, 
and jacinth, and purple, and red silk twice-dyed, and bis, that is, white silk, and hairs of goats, 
and skins of wethers made red, and skins of jacinth, and wood of shittim, 
and oil to lights to be ordained, sweet smelling spiceries into ointment, and incense of good odour, 
onyx stones, and gems to adorn ephod, that is, a chasuble, and the rational, that is, an ouch hanging on the priest’s breast, in which was written doom and truth. 
And they shall make a saintuary to me, and I shall dwell in the midst of them, 
by all the likeness of the taber-nacle that I shall show to thee, and of all the vessels of the adorning thereof. 
And thus ye shall make it; join together an ark, or a coffer, of the wood of shittim, whose length shall have two cubits and an half, the breadth shall have one cubit and an half, the height in like manner one cubit and an half. 
And thou shalt overgild it with cleanest gold within and without; and thou shalt make a golden crown above by compass, 
and four golden rings, which thou shalt set by the four corners of the ark; two rings be in the one side, and two rings in the other side. 
Also thou shalt make bars of the wood of shittim, and thou shalt cover them with gold, 
and thou shalt bring in by the rings that be in the sides of the ark, that it be borne in them, 
the which bars shall evermore be in the rings, neither they shall any time be drawn out of them. 
And thou shalt put into the ark the witnessing, that is, law, which I shall give to thee. 
And thou shalt make a propiti-atory of cleanest gold; that is, a table covering the ark, or a place of purchasing mercy; the length thereof shall hold two cubits and an half, and the breadth shall hold one cubit and an half. 
Also thou shalt make on ever either side of God’s answering place, two cherubims or cherubim of gold, and beaten out with an hammer; 
one cherub be on one side of God’s answering place, and the tother in the tother side; cover they ever either side of the propitiatory, 
and hold they forth their wings, and cover they God’s answering place; and behold they themselves together, while their faces be turned in to the propitiatory, 
with which the ark of the Lord shall be covered, in which ark thou shalt put the witnessing or the testimony, that is, the tables of the law, that I shall give to thee. 
From thence I shall command, and I shall speak to thee above the propitiatory, that is, from the midst of the two cherubims or cherubim, that shall be on the ark of witnessing, all things which I shall command by thee to the sons of Israel. 
Also thou shalt make a board of the wood of shittim, having two cubits of length, and one cubit of broadness, and one cubit and an half in height. 
And thou shalt overgild the board with most pure gold, and thou shalt make to it a golden brink about; 
and thou shalt make to that brink a crown raised betwixt four fingers high, and thou shalt make on that another little golden crown. 
And thou shalt make ready four golden rings, and thou shalt put them in the four corners of the same board, by all the feet thereof. 
Under the crown shall be golden rings, that the bars be put through them, and so the table may be borne. 
Thou shalt make the bars of the wood of shittim, and thou shalt com-pass them with gold to bear the board. 
And thou shalt make ready vessels of vinegar, and vials, and censers, and cups of purest gold, in which flowing sacrifices shall be offered. 
And thou shalt set on the board loaves of proposition, or of setting forth, in my sight evermore. 
And thou shalt make a candle-stick beaten out with an hammer, of cleanest gold, andthou shalt make the shaft thereof, and the rods, and cups, and little roundels or balls, and lilies coming forth thereof. 
Six rods shall go out of the sides of it, three of the one side, and three of the other. 
Three cups as in the manner of a nut by each rod, and the little roundels or balls together, and a lily, and in like manner three cups at the likeness of a nut in the tother rod, and little roundels together, and a lily; this shall be the work of six rods, that shall be brought forth out of the candlestick shaft. 
Forsooth in that candlestick shall be four cups in the manner of a nut, and little roundels or balls and lilies by each cup; 
and the little roundels or balls shall be under two rods by three places, the which rods altogether be made six, coming forth of one shaft; 
and therefore the little roundels and the rods thereof shall be all beaten out with an hammer, of cleanest gold. 
And thou shalt make seven lanterns, and thou shalt set them on the candlestick, that they shine even against each other. 
Also tongs to snuff the candles, and the vessels where those snuffs, that be snuffed out, be quenched, be made of cleanest gold. 
All the weight of the candlestick with all his vessels shall have, or weigh, a talent of cleanest gold. 
Behold thou, and make all things by the exemplar, which is showed to thee in the hill. 
