LAMENTATIONS.
Chapter 3.
I am a man seeing my poverty in the rod of his indignation. 
He drove me, and brought into darknesses, and not into light. 
Only he turned into me, and turned altogether his hand all day. 
He made eld my skin, and my flesh; he all-brake my bones. 
He builded in my compass, and he encompassed me with gall and travail. 
He setted me in dark places, as everlasting dead men. 
He builded about against me, that I go not out; he aggrieved my gyves or fetters. 
But and when I cry and pray, he hath excluded my prayer. 
He enclosed altogether my ways with square stones; he destroyed my paths. 
He is made like a bear setting ambush to me, like a lion in hid places. 
He destroyed my paths, and brake me; he setted me desolate. 
He bent his bow, and setted me as a sign to an arrow. 
He sent in my reins the daughters of his arrow case. 
I am made into scorn to all the people, the song of them all day. 
He filled me with bitternesses; he greatly filled me with wormwood. 
He brake at number my teeth; he fed me with ashes. 
And my soul is put away; I have forgotten goods. 
And I said, Mine end perished, and mine hope, from the Lord. 
Have thou mind on my poverty, and going over, and on wormwood and gall. 
By mind I shall be mindful; and my soul shall fail in me. 
I bethink these things in mine heart, I shall hope in God. 
The mercies of the Lord be many, for we be not wasted; for why his merciful doings failed not. 
I knew in the morrowtide; thy faith is much or much is thy faith. 
My soul said, The Lord is my part; therefore I shall abide him. 
The Lord is good to them that hope into him, to a soul seeking him. 
It is good to abide with stillness the health of God. 
It is good to a man, when he hath borne the yoke of his youth. 
He shall sit alone, and he shall be still; for he raised himself above himself. 
He shall set his mouth in dust, if peradventure hope is. 
He shall give the cheek to a man that smiteth him; he shall be filled with shames. 
For the Lord shall not put away without end. 
For if he casted away, and he shall do mercy after the multitude of his mercies. 
For he maked not low of his heart; and casted not away the sons of men. 
That he should all-foul under his feet all the bound men of the earth. 
That he should bow down the doom of a man, in the sight of the cheer of the Highest. 
That he should pervert a man in his doom, the Lord knew not. 
Who is this that said, that a thing should be done, when the Lord commandeth not? 
Neither goods neither evils shall go out of the mouth of the Highest. 
What grutched a man living, a man punished for his sins? 
Search we our ways, and seek we, and turn we again to the Lord. 
Raise we our hearts with hands, to the Lord into heavens. 
We have done wickedly, and have stirred thee to wrath; therefore thou art not able to be prayed. 
Thou coveredest in strong venge-ance, and smitedest us; thou killedest, and sparedest not. 
Thou settedest a cloud to thee, that prayer pass not. 
Thou settedest me, drawing up by the root, and casting out, in the midst of the peoples. 
All the enemies opened their mouth on us. 
Inward dread and snare is made to us, prophecy and defouling. 
Mine eyes led down partings of waters, for the defouling of the daughter of my people. 
Mine eye was tormented, and was not still; for no rest was. 
Until the Lord beheld, and saw from heavens. 
Mine eye robbed my soul in all the daughters of my city. 
Mine enemies took me without cause, by hunting me as a bird. 
My life slid into a pit; and they putted a stone on me. 
Waters flowed over mine head; I said, I perish. 
Lord, I called to help thy name, from the last pit. 
Thou heardest my voice; turn thou not away thine ear from my sobbing and cries. 
Thou nighedest to me in the day, wherein I called thee to help; thou saidest, Dread thou not. 
Lord, again-buyer of my life, thou deemedest the cause of my soul. 
Lord, thou sawest the wickedness of them against me; deem thou my doom. 
Thou sawest all the strong vengeance, all the thoughts of them against me. 
Lord, thou heardest the shames of them; all the thoughts of them against me. 
The lips of men rising against me, and the thoughts of them against me all day. 
See thou the sitting and rising again of them; I am the psalm of them. 
Lord, thou shalt yield while to them, by the works of their hands. 
Thou shalt give to them the shield of heart, thy travail. 
Lord, thou shalt pursue them in thy strong vengeance, and thou shalt defoul them under heavens. 
