PSALMS.
Chapter 72.
To Solomon. God, give thy doom to the king; and thy rightfulness or rightwiseness to the son of the king. 
To deem thy people in rightfulness or rightwiseness; and thy poor men in doom. 
Mountains receive peace to the people; and little hills receive rightful-ness or rightwiseness. 
He shall deem the poor men of the people, and he shall make safe the sons of poor men; and he shall make low the false challenger. 
And he shall dwell with the sun, and before the moon, that is, without beginning, and end; in generation and into generation. 
He shall come down as rain into a fleece; and as gutters dropping on the earth. 
Rightfulness or rightwiseness shall come forth in his days; and the abun-dance of peace, till the moon be taken away. 
And he shall be lord from the sea till to the sea; and from the flood till to the ends of the world. 
Ethiopians shall fall down before him; and his enemies shall lick the earth. 
The kings of Tarshish and isles shall offer gifts; the kings of Arabia and of Seba shall bring gifts. 
And all kings shall worship him; all folks shall serve him. 
For he shall deliver a poor man from the mighty; and a poor man to whom there was none helper. 
He shall spare a poor man and needy; and he shall make safe the souls of poor men. 
He shall again-buy the souls of them from usuries, and wickedness; and the name of them is honourable before him. 
And he shall live, and men shall give to him of the gold of Arabia; and they shall ever worship of him, all day they shall bless him. 
Steadfastness shall be in the earth, in the highest place of mountains; the fruit thereof shall be enhanced above the Lebanon; and they shall blossom from the city, as the hay of earth doeth. 
His name be blessed into worlds; his name dwell before the sun. And all the lineages of earth shall be blessed in him; all folks shall magnify him. 
Blessed be the Lord God of Israel; which alone maketh marvels. 
And blessed be the name of his majesty without end; and all earth shall be filled with his majesty; be it done, be it done. 
The prayers, or praisings, or hymns, of David, the son of Jesse, be ended. 
