EXODUS.
Chapter 6.
And the Lord said to Moses, Now thou shalt see, what things I shall do to Pharaoh; for by a strong hand he shall deliver them, that is, the sons of Israel, and in a mighty hand he shall cast them out of his land. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, I am the Lord, 
that appeared to Abraham, and to Isaac, and to Jacob, I am Almighty God; and I showed not to them my great name Adonai, that is, Tetragrammaton. 
and I made a covenant with them, that I should give to them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, in which they were comelings. 
I heard the wailing of the sons of Israel, in which the Egyptians oppressed them, and I had mind of my covenant. 
Therefore say thou to the sons of Israel, I am the Lord, that shall lead you out of the prison of the Egyptians; and I shall deliver you from servage; and I shall again-buy you in an arm straight out, and in great dooms; 
and I shall take you to me into a people, and I shall be your God; and ye shall know, for I am your Lord God, which have led you out of the prison of Egyptians, 
and have led you into the land, on which I raised up mine hand, that I should give it to Abraham, and to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I shall give to you that land to be had in possession; I am the Lord. 
Therefore Moses told all things to the sons of Israel, which assented not to him for the anguish of spirit, and for the full hard work by which they were troubled. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Enter thou, and speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, that he deliver the children of Israel from his land. 
Moses answered before the Lord, Lo! the children of Israel hear not me; and how shall Pharaoh hear, mostly since I am uncircumcised in lips? 
And the Lord spake to Moses and to Aaron, and he gave behests to the sons of Israel, and to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, that they should lead out the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt. 
These be the princes of the houses by their meines. The sons of Reuben, the first begotten of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these be the kindreds of Reuben. 
The sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a woman of Canaan; these be the kindreds of Simeon. 
And these be the names of the sons of Levi by their kindreds; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. Forsooth the years of the life of Levi were an hundred and seven and thirty. 
The sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, by their kindreds. 
The sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kohath were an hundred and three and thirty. 
The sons of Merari were Mahali and Mushi. These were the kindreds of Levi by their meines. 
Forsooth Amram took a wife, Jochebed, the daughter of his father’s brother, and she childed to him Aaron, and Moses, and Marie; and the years of the life of Amram were an hundred and seven and thirty. 
Also the sons of Izhar were Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri. 
Also the sons of Uzziel were Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri. 
Soothly Aaron took a wife, Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Naashon, and she childed to him Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
Also the sons of Korah were Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these were the kindreds of Korah. 
And soothly Eleazar, son of Aaron, took a wife of the daughters of Putiel, and she childed Phinehas to him. These be the princes of the meines of Levi by their kindreds. 
This is Aaron and Moses, to which the Lord commanded, that they should lead out of the land of Egypt the sons of Israel by their companies; 
these it be, that spake to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, that they lead the sons of Israel out of Egypt; this is Moses and Aaron, 
in the day in which the Lord spake to Moses in the land of Egypt. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, I am the Lord; speak thou to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, all things which I speak to thee. 
And Moses said before the Lord, Lo! I am uncircumcised in lips; how shall Pharaoh hear me? 
