PSALMS.
Chapter 10.
Lord, why hast thou gone far away? thou despisest us in covenable times in tribulation. 
While the wicked man waxeth proud, the poor man is burnt; they be taken in the wicked counsels, which they thinked. 
For why the sinner is praised in the desires of his soul; and the wicked is blessed. The sinner hath stirred the Lord to wrath; 
after the multitude of his wrath, he shall not seek after God. God is not in his sight; 
his ways be defouled in all time. Thy dooms be taken away from his face; he shall be lord of all his enemies. 
For he said in his heart, I shall not be moved, from generation into gener-ation without evil. 
Whose mouth is full of cursing, and of bitterness, and of guile; travail and sorrow is under his tongue. 
He sitteth in ambushes with rich men in privates; to slay the innocent man. His eyes behold cruelly on the poor man; 
he setteth ambushes in hid place, as a lion in his den. He setteth ambushes, for to ravish a poor man; for to ravish a poor man, while he draweth in the poor man. In his snare he shall make meek the poor man; 
he shall bow himself down, and he shall fall, when he hath been lord of poor men. 
For he said in his heart, God hath forgotten; he hath turned away his face, that he see not into the end. 
Lord God, rise thou up, and thine hand be enhanced; forget thou not poor men. 
For what thing stirred the wicked man God to wrath? for he said in his heart, God shall not seek. 
Thou seest, for thou beholdest travail and sorrow; that thou take them into thine hands. The poor man is left to thee; thou shalt be an helper to the fatherless and motherless. 
All-break thou the arm of the sinner, and evil-willed; his sin shall be sought, and it shall not be found. 
The Lord shall reign without end, and into the world of world; folks, ye shall perish from the land of him. 
The Lord hath heard the desire of poor men; thine ear hath heard the making ready of their heart. 
To deem for the motherless and meek; that a man presume no more to make himself great on earth. 
