SONG OF SONGS.
Chapter 4.
My friendess, thou art full fair, thou art full fair; thine eyes be of culvers, without that, that is hid within; thine hairs be as the flocks of goats, that went up from the hills of Gilead. 
Thy teeth be as the flocks of shorn sheep, that went up from the washing; all be with double lambs, and no barren is among those. 
Thy lips be as a red lace, and thy speech is sweet; as the remnant of an apple of Punic, so be thy cheeks, without that, that is hid within. 
Thy neck is as the tower of David, which is builded with strong-holds made before for defence; a thousand shields hang on it, all the armour of strong men. 
Thy two teats be as two kids, twins of a capret, that be fed among lilies, 
till the day spring, and the shadows be bowed down. I shall go to the mountain of myrrh, and to the little hill of incense. 
My love, thou art all-fair, and no wem is in thee. 
My spousess, come thou from the Lebanon; come thou from the Lebanon, come thou; beholding from the head of Amana, from the top of Shenir and Hermon, from the dens of lions, from the hills of leopards. 
My sister spousess, thou hast wounded mine heart; thou hast wounded mine heart, in one of thine eyes, and in one hair of thy neck. 
My sister spousess, thy loves be full fair; thy loves be fairer than wine, and the odour of thy clothes is above all sweet smelling ointments. 
Spousess, thy lips be as an honeycomb dropping; honey and milk be under thy tongue, and the odour of thy clothes is as the odour of incense. 
My sister spousess, a garden closed altogether; a garden closed altogether, a well asealed. 
Thy sendings-out be as a paradise of apples of Punic, with the fruits of apples, cypress trees, with nard; 
nard and saffron, an herb called fistula, and canel, with all the trees of the Lebanon, myrrh, and aloes, with all the best, either first, ointments. 
A well of gardens, a well of welling, either quick, waters, that flow with fierceness from the Lebanon. 
Rise thou, north wind, and come thou, south wind; blow thou through my garden, and the sweet smelling ointments thereof shall flow. My darling, come he into his garden, to eat the fruit of his apples. 
