ZECHARIAH.
Chapter 10.
Ask ye of the Lord rain in late time, and the Lord shall make snows, and rain of might of cloud; and he shall give to them, to each by himself, herb in the field. 
For simulacra spake unprofitable things, and diviners saw leasing; and dreamers spake vainly, idly they comforted; therefore they be led away as a flock, they shall be tormented, for a shepherd is not to them. 
On shepherds my strong vengeance is wroth, and on the bucks of goats I shall visit; for the Lord of hosts hath visited his flock, the house of Judah, and hath put them as an horse of his glory in battle. 
Of him shall be a cornerstone, and of him a little pale, of him a bow of battle, and of him each exactor, either unjust asker, shall go out together. 
And they shall be as strong men, defouling clay of ways in battle, and they shall fight, for the Lord is with them; and riders of horses shall be confounded. 
And I shall comfort the house of Judah, and I shall save the house of Joseph; and I shall convert them, for I shall have mercy on them; and they shall be as they were, when I had not cast away them; for I shall be the Lord God of them, and I shall graciously hear them. 
And they shall be as the strong men of Ephraim, and the heart of them shall be glad, as of wine; and the sons of them shall see, and be glad, and the heart of them shall make joy withoutforth in the Lord. 
I shall hiss to them, and I shall gather them, for I again-bought them, and I shall multiply them, as they were multiplied before. 
And I shall sow them among peoples, and from far they shall bethink of me; and they shall live with their sons, and shall turn again. 
And I shall bring again them from the land of Egypt, and I shall gather them from Assyrians; and I shall bring them to the land of Gilead and of Lebanon, and place shall not be found to them. 
And he shall pass in the wave of the sea, and shall smite waves in the sea, and all depths of flood shall be confounded; and the pride of Assur shall be meeked, and the sceptre of Egypt shall go away. 
I shall comfort them in the Lord, and they shall walk in the name of him, saith the Lord. 
