GENESIS.
Chapter 2.
Therefore heavens and earth be made perfect, and all the ornament of those or them. 
And God ful filled in the seventh day his work which he made; and he rested in the seventh day from all his work which he had made; 
and he blessed the seventh day, and hallowed it; for in that day God ceased of all his work which he made of nought, that he should make. 
These be the generations of heaven and of earth, in the day wherein the Lord God made heaven and earth, 
and each little tree of the earth before that it sprang out in the earth; and he made each herb of the field before that it burgeoned. For the Lord God had not rained on the earth, and no man there was that wrought or might work the earth; 
but a well went out of the earth, and moisted all the higher part of the earth. 
Therefore the Lord God formed man of the slime of the earth, and breathed into his face the breathing of life; and man was made into a living soul. 
Forsooth the Lord God planted at the beginning paradise of liking or the garden of Eden, wherein he set man whom he had formed. 
And the Lord God brought forth of the earth each tree fair in sight, and sweet to eat; also he brought forth the tree of life in the midst of paradise, and the tree of knowing of good and of evil. 
And a river went out from the place of liking or Eden to moist paradise or the garden, which river is parted from thence into four heads. 
The name of the one river is Pishon, that it is that encompasseth all the land of Havilah, where gold cometh forth, 
and the gold of that land is the best, and there is found bdellium, that is, a tree of spicery, and the stone onyx; 
and the name of the second river is Gihon, that it is that encompasseth all the land of Ethiopia; 
forsooth the name of the third river is Tigris, that goeth against Assyrians; soothly the fourth river is that Euphrates. 
Therefore the Lord God took man, and set him in paradise of liking, that he should work and keep it. 
And God commanded to him and said, Eat thou of each tree of paradise; 
forsooth eat thou not of the tree of knowing of good and of evil; for in whatever day thou shalt eat thereof, thou shalt die by death. 
And the Lord God said, It is not good that a man be alone; make we to him an helper like to himself. 
And therefore when all living beasts of the earth, and all the volatiles of heaven, were formed of the earth, the Lord God brought those or them to Adam, that he should see what he should call those or them; for all thing that Adam called of living soul, that is the name thereof. 
And Adam called by their names all living things, and all volatiles of heavens, and all unreasonable beasts of the earth. Forsooth to Adam was not found an helper like him. 
Therefore the Lord God sent sleep into Adam, and when he slept, God took one of his ribs, and filled flesh for it. 
And the Lord God builded the rib which he had taken from Adam into a woman, and brought her to Adam. 
And Adam said, This is now a bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh; this shall be called virago, for she is taken of man. 
Wherefore a man shall forsake his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they shall be twain or two in one flesh. 
Forsooth ever either was naked, that is, Adam and his wife, and they were not ashamed. 
