ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 12.
If thou doest well, know thou to whom thou doest it; and much grace shall be to thy goods. 
Do thou well to a just or right-wise man, and thou shalt find great yielding; though not or if not of him, certainly of the Lord. 
It is not well to him that is customable or busy in evils, and to him that giveth not alms; for why the Highest both hateth sinners, and doeth mercy to them that do penance. 
Give thou to a merciful man or Give to the merciful, and receive thou not a sinner, that is, obstinate in sins; God shall yield vengeance both to unfaithful men or the unpious and to sinners, keeping them in the day of vengeance. Give thou to a good man, and receive thou not a sinner. 
Do thou good or well to a meek man, and give thou not to an unpious man, that is, obstinate in sin; forbid thou to give loaves to him, lest in those or with them, he become mightier than thou. For thou shalt find double evils in all goods, which-ever or whatever thou doest to him; 
for why the Highest both hateth sinners, and shall yield vengeance to unfaithful men or the unpious. 
(This verse is omitted in the original text.). 
A friend shall not be known in goods, and an enemy shall not be hid in evils, that is, adversities. 
In the goods of a man, his enemies be sorry; and a friend is known in the sorrow and malice of him, that is, in adversity of him. 
Believe thou never to thine enemy; for his wickedness rusteth out as iron. 
Though he be made meek, and go low or crooked, cast away thy soul, and keep thee from him. 
Set thou not him beside thee, neither sit he at thy right side, lest he turn, and stand in thy place; lest per-adventure he turn into thy place, and inquire or inwardly seek thy chair, and in the last time thou know my words, and be pricked in my words. 
Who shall do medicine to an enchanter smitten of a serpent, and to all men that nigh to beasts, 
and to him that goeth with an evil man, and is wrapped in the sins of him? 
In one hour he shall dwell with thee; soothly if thou bowest away, he shall not bear up. 
The enemy maketh sweet in his lips, and in his heart he setteth treason to overturn thee into the ditch. The enemy weepeth in his eyes; and if he findeth time, he shall not be filled of blood or full-filled with blood. 
If evils befall to thee, thou shalt find him the former there. The enemy shall weep before thine eyes, and he as helping shall undermine thy feet. 
He shall stir his head, and he shall beat with hands; and he shall speak privily many evils of thee, and shall change his cheer. 
