2ND SAMUEL.
Chapter 8.
And it was done after these things, David smote the Philistines, and made low them; and David took away the bridle of tribute from the hand of Philistines. 
And David smote Moab, and meted them with a cord, and he made them even to the earth; forsooth he meted them by two cords, one to slay, and one to quicken. And Moab served David under tribute. 
And David smote Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, when he went forth to be lord over the flood Euphrates. 
And when a thousand and seven hundred horsemen of his part were taken, and twenty thousand of foot-men, David hocked all the drawing beasts in chariots; but David left of those or them an hundred chariots, that is, the horses of an hundred chariots. 
Also Syrians of Damascus came, that it should bear help to Hadadezer, king of Zobah; and David smote of Syrians two and twenty thousand of men. 
And David setted or put a strong-hold in Syria of Damascus, and Syria was made serving David under tribute. And the Lord kept David in all things, to whatever things he went forth. 
And David took golden armours and bies, which the servants of Hadadezer had, and he brought those or them into Jerusalem. 
And of Betah, and of Berothai, the cities of Hadadezer, David the king took full much brass. 
Forsooth Toi, king of Hamath, heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer. 
And Toi sent Joram, his son, to king David, that he should greet him, and thank, and do thankings, for he had overcome Hadadezer, and had smitten him; for Toi was enemy of Hadadezer; and vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass were in his hand. 
And the same vessels king David hallowed to the Lord, with the silver and gold, which he had hallowed of all heathen men, which he had made subject 
of Syria, and of Moab, and of the sons of Ammon, and of Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoils of Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah. 
Also David made to him a name, when he turned again when Syria was taken, for eighteen thousand men were slain in the valley, where salt was made, and in Helam, to three and twenty thousand. 
And he setted keepers in Idumea, and ordained a stronghold, and all Idumea was made serving to David; and the Lord kept David in all things, to whatever things he went forth. 
And David reigned upon all Israel, and David did doom, and rightwise-ness to all his people. 
And Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was over the host of David; and Jehosha-phat, the son of Ahilud, was recorder; 
and Zadok, the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Seraiah was a scribe. 
But Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was over Cherethites and Pelethites, that is, over archers and arrowblasters; and the sons of David were priests. 
