1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 24.
Forsooth to the sons of Aaron these portions shall be; the sons of Aaron were Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar; 
but Nadab and Abihu were dead without free children before their father, and Eleazar and Ithamar were set in priesthood. 
And David parted or separated them, that is, with the help of Zadok, of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech, of the sons of Ithamar, by their whiles, and their service; 
and the sons of Eleazar were found many more in the men as princes, than the sons of Ithamar. And David parted or separated to them, that is, to the sons of Eleazar, sixteen princes by their meines and houses; and to the sons of Ithamar eight princes by their meines and houses. 
And he parted or separated ever either meines among themselves by lots; for there were princes of the saintuary, and princes of the house of God, as well of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar. 
And Shemaiah, the son of Nethane-el, a scribe of the lineage of Levi, described them before the king and the princes, and before Zadok, the priest, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, and to the princes of meines of the priests and of the deacons or Levites; he described one house of Eleazar, that was sovereign to the others, and the tother house of Ithamar, that had the other priests and deacons or Levites under him. 
Forsooth the first lot went out to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah, 
the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, 
the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 
the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abiah, 
the ninth to Jeshuah, the tenth to Shecaniah, 
the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 
the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 
the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, 
the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Aphses, 
the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezekel, 
the one and twentieth to Jachin, the two and twentieth to Gamul, 
the three and twentieth to Delaiah, and the four and twentieth to Maaziah. 
These were the whiles, or times, of them by their services, that they enter into the house of God, and by their custom under the hand of Aaron, their father, as the Lord God of Israel commanded. 
Forsooth Shubael was prince of the sons of Levi that were residue or were left, of the sons of Amram; and the son of Shubael was Jehdeiah; 
also Isshiah was prince of the sons of Rehabiah. 
And Shelomoth was prince of Izharites; and the son of Shelomoth was Jahath; 
and the sons of Hebron; his first son was Jeriah, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth. 
The son of Uzziel was Michah; the son of Michah was Shamir; 
the brother of Michah was Isshiah; and the son of Isshiah was Zechariah. 
The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi; the son of Jaaziah was Beno; 
and the son of Merari was Jaaziah, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri. 
And the son of Mahli was Eleazar, which had not free sons; 
and the son of Kish was Jerahmeel; 
the sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of Levi, by the houses of their meines. 
Also and they sent lots against their brethren, the sons of Aaron, before David the king, and before Zadok, and Ahimelech, and before the princes of meines of the priests, and of deacons or Levites; the lot parted evenly all things, both the greater and the less. 
