COLOSSIANS.
Chapter 2.
But I will that ye know, what busyness I have for you, and for them that be at Laodicea, and whichever saw not my face in flesh, 
that their hearts be comforted, and they be taught in charity, into all the riches of the plenty of under-standing, into the knowing of the mystery of God, the Father of Jesus Christ, 
in whom all the treasures of wisdom and of science, or of cunning, be hid. 
For this thing I say, that no man deceive you in height of words. 
For though I be absent in body, by spirit I am with you, joying and seeing your order and the firmness of your belief that is in Christ. 
Therefore as ye have taken Jesus Christ our Lord, walk ye in him, 
and be ye rooted and builded above in him, and confirmed in the belief, as ye have learned, abounding in him in doing of thankings. 
See ye that no man deceive you by philosophy and vain fallacy, after the tradition of men, after the elements of the world, and not after Christ. 
For in him dwelleth body-like all the fullness of the Godhead. 
And ye be ful filled in him, that is head of all principat and power. 
In whom also ye be circumcised in circumcision not made with hand, in despoiling or in nakedness of the body of flesh, but in circumcision of Christ; 
and ye be buried together with him in baptism, in whom also ye have risen again by faith of the working of God, that raised him from death. 
And when ye were dead in your guilts, and in the prepuce of your flesh, he quickened together you with him; forgiving to you all guilts or all trespasses, 
doing away that writing of decree that was against us, that was contrary to us; and he took away that from the middle, pitching it on the cross; 
and he spoiled principats and powers, and led out trustily, openly overcoming them in himself. 
Therefore no man judge you in meat, or in drink, or in part of feast day, or of new moon, or of sabbaths, 
which be shadow of things to coming or to come; for the body is of Christ. 
No man deceive you, willing to teach in meekness, and the religion of angels, those things which he hath not seen, walking vainly, swollen or in-blown with wit of his flesh, 
and not holding the head, of which all the body, by bands and joinings together under-ministered and made, waxeth into the increasing of God. 
For if ye be dead with Christ from the elements of the world, what yet as men living to the world deem ye? 
That ye touch not, neither taste, neither treat with hands those things, 
which all be into death by that use, after the commandments and teachings of men; 
which have a reason of wisdom in vain religion or in superstition and meekness, and not to spare the body, not in any honour to the fulfilling of the flesh. 
