DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 11.
Therefore love thy Lord God, and keep thou his commandments, and ceremonies, and dooms, and his behests, in all time. 
Know ye today those things which your sons know not, which sons have not seen the doctrine of your Lord God, nor his great works, and his strong hand, and his stretched arm, 
his miracles, and his works, which he did in the midst of Egypt, to Pharaoh, the king, and to all his land, 
and to all the host of the Egyptians, and to their horses, and cars or chariots; how the waters of the Red Sea covered them, when they pursued you, and the Lord did away them till into present day; 
and which things the Lord did to you in wilderness, till ye came to this place; 
and to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, that was the son of Reuben, which the earth swallowed, when his mouth was opened, with their households, and tabernacles, and all the chattel that they had, in the midst of Israel. 
Your eyes saw all the great works of the Lord, which he did, 
that ye keep all his behests which I command today to you, and that ye may enter, and wield the land, 
to which ye shall enter, and ye live therein much time; which land, flowing with milk and honey, the Lord promised under an oath to your fathers and their seed. 
For the land, to which thou shalt enter to wield, is not as the land of Egypt, out of which thou wentest, where when the seed is sown in the manner of gardens, moist waters be led thereto; 
but the land that Israel shall wield is hills, and fields, and it abideth rains from heaven, 
which land thy Lord God behold-eth, and his eyes be therein, from the beginning of the year unto the end thereof. 
Therefore if ye shall obey to my behests which I command today to you, that ye love your Lord God, and serve him in all your heart, and in all your soul; 
he shall give to your land rain timely and late, that ye gather wheat, and wine, and oil, 
hay of the fields to feed beasts, that ye both eat and be full-filled. 
Be ye ware, lest peradventure your heart be deceived, and ye go away from the Lord, and serve alien gods, and worship them; 
and the Lord therefore be wroth, and close heaven, and rain come not down, neither the earth give his fruit, and ye perish swiftly from the full good land that the Lord shall give to you. 
Put ye these my words in your hearts and in your souls, and hang ye them up for a token, or a sign, in your hands, and set ye them betwixt your eyes. 
Teach ye your sons, that they think upon those words, when thou sittest in thine house, and goest in the way, and liest down, and risest up. 
Thou shalt write those words upon the doorposts, and the gates of thine house, 
that the days of thee and of thy sons be multiplied in the land which the Lord swore to thy fathers, that he should give to them, as long as heaven is above earth. 
For if ye keep the behests which I command to you, and do those or them, that ye love your Lord God, and go in all his ways, and cleave to him, 
the Lord shall destroy all these heathen men before your face, and ye shall wield those folks that be greater and stronger than ye. 
Each place which your foot shall tread, shall be yours; from the desert, and from Lebanon, and from the great flood Euphrates unto the west sea, shall be your terms. 
None shall stand against you; your Lord God shall give your outward dread and your inward dread upon each land that ye shall tread, as he spake to you. 
Lo! I set forth in your sight today blessing and cursing; 
blessing, if ye obey to the behests of your Lord God, which I command to you today; 
cursing, if ye hear not the behests of your Lord God, but go away from the way which I show now to you, and go after alien gods, which ye know not. 
Soothly when thy Lord God hath brought thee into the land, to which to inhabit thou goest, thou shalt set blessing upon the hill Gerizim, cursing upon the hill Ebal, 
which hills be beyond Jordan, after the way that goeth to the going down of the sun, in the land of Canaanites, that dwell in the field places against Gilgal, which is beside the valley going and entering far. 
For ye shall pass over Jordan, that ye wield the land which your Lord God shall give to you, and that ye have and wield that land. 
Therefore see ye, that ye fulfill the ceremonies and dooms, which I shall set today in your sight. 
