2ND MACCABEES.
Chapter 13.
In the hundred and nine and fortieth year Judas knew, that Antiochus Eupator came with multitude against Judea; 
and with him came Lysias, procurator and sovereign of offices or provost of needs, having with him an hundred and ten thousand of footmen, and of horsemen five thousand, and elephants two and twenty, chariots with scythes or with sickles three hundred. 
Forsooth and Menelaus joined him to them, and with great deceit besought Antiochus, not for health of the country, but hoping that he should be ordained into princehood. 
But the King of kings raised the wills of Antiochus against the sinner; and when Lysias showed that he was cause of all evils, he commanded, as custom is to them, him taken, for to be slain in the same place. 
Soothly in the same place was a tower of fifty cubits, having on each side a gathering of ashes; this was beholding into a ditch. 
From thence he commanded the sacrileger, or cursed man, for to be cast down into ashes, when all men putted forth him or putting him forth to the death. 
And by such law it befell the breaker of law for to die, neither Menelaus for to be given to earth. And forsooth justly enough; 
for why for he did many trespasses against the altar of God, whose fire and ashes was holy, he was condemned in the death of ashes. 
But the king without bridle in mind, or understanding, came to show him worse to Jews, than his father. 
And when these things were known, Judas commanded the people, that by night and day they should call to help the Lord; that as evermore, also now he should help them; which soothly dreaded for to be deprived of law, and country, and of holy temple; 
and that he suffered not the people, that a while ago had a little quickened again, for to be subject again to blasphemous nations. 
Therefore when all men did together that thing, and asked mercy of the Lord with weeping, in fasting/s by all three days, and kneeled or cast down, Judas admonished them for to make them ready. 
Forsooth he with elder men thought for to go out, before that the king moved host to Judea, and got the city, and to betake the end of the thing to the doom of the Lord. 
Therefore he gave power of all things to God, Maker of nought of the world, and admonished his to fight strongly, and stand till to the death or unto death, for laws, temple, city, country, and citizens; and he ordained the host about Modin. 
And when a token was given to his of victory of God, he chose the strongest young men, and by night he assailed the king’s hall in tents, and he slew fourteen thousand men, and the most of elephants, with these that were put above. 
And they filled the tents of enemies with highest dread and disturbing, and when these things were done easily, or wealsomely, either in prosperity, they went away. 
Forsooth this was done in the day lighting, for the protection of the Lord helped him. 
But when the king had taken taste of hardiness of Jews by craft, he assayed or attempted hardinesses of places; 
and moved the tents to Bethsura, that was a stronghold of Jews; but he was driven, hurtled, and diminished, or wasted. 
Forsooth to these that were within, Judas sent needful things. 
Forsooth Rhodocus, some man of the host of Jews, told out privates to enemies; which was sought, and taken, and imprisoned. 
Again the king had word to them that were in Bethsura, and gave the right hand, and received, and went away. He joined battle with Judas, and Judas was overcome. 
Forsooth as he knew that Philip had rebelled at Antioch, which was left on needs, he was astonied in mind, either understanding, and besought Jews, and was subject to them, and swore of all things, of which it was seen just; and he was reconciled, and offered sacrifice, and worshipped the temple, and putted gifts. 
He embraced, or kissed, Maccabeus, and made him prince and duke from Ptolemais till to Gerrhenians or Gerar. 
Soothly as he came to Ptolemais, men of Ptolemais bare grievously according of friendship, and had indignation, lest peradventure they would break peace. 
Then Lysias went up into the doom place, and expounded reason, and ceased the people, and returned again to Antioch; and in this manner the king’s going out and turning again went forth. 
