WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
Chapter 2.
Forsooth wicked men said, thinking with themselves not rightfully, The time of our life is little, and with annoyance; no refreshing is in the end of a man, and none there is, that is known, that turned again from hells. Forsooth unpious men said, thinking with themselves not right, Little and with annoyance is the time of our life; there is not refreshing in the end of a man, and there is not, that be known, turned again from hell. 
For we were born of nought, and after this time we shall be, as if we had not been; for why smoke is blown out in our nostrils, and a word of sparkle to stir our heart. 
For our body shall be quenched ashes, and the spirit shall be scattered abroad as soft air; and our life shall pass as the step of a cloud, and it shall be departed as a mist, which is driven away of the beams of the sun, and is grieved of the heart thereof. 
And our name shall take forgetting by the passing of time; and no man shall have mind of our works. 
For why our time is the passing of a shadow, and no turning again of our end there is or there is not turning again of our end; for it is asealed, and no man turneth again. 
Therefore come ye or Cometh then, and use we the goods that be, and use we a creature, as in youth, swiftly. 
Fill we us with precious wine and ointments; and the flower of time pass not us. 
Crown we us with roses, before that they wither; no meadow be, that our lechery pass not by or through. 
No man of us be there without part of our lechery; everywhere leave we the signs of gladness; for this is our part, and this is our heritage or our lot. 
Oppress we a poor just or rightwise man, and spare we not a widow, neither reverence we hoar hairs of an old man of much time. 
But our strength be the law of rightfulness; for why that that is feeble, is found unprofitable. 
Therefore deceive we a just or the rightwise man, for he is unprofitable to us, and he is contrary to our works; and he upbraideth or reprovingly putteth to us the sins of law, and he defameth on or against us the sins of our teaching. 
He promiseth that he hath the knowing of God, and he nameth himself the son of God. 
He is made to us into showing of our thoughts. 
He is grievous to us, yea, to see; for why his life is unlike to other men, and his ways be changed. 
We be guessed of him to be triflers, that is, men of no virtue, and he abstaineth himself from our ways, as from uncleannesses; and he before-setteth or telleth before the last things of just men, and he hath glory, that he hath God his father. 
Therefore see we, if his words be true; and assay we, what things shall come to him; and we shall know, what shall be the last things of him. 
For if he is the very son of God, he shall up-take him, and shall deliver him from the hands of them that be contrary to him. 
Ask we him by despising and torment, that we know his reverence, and that we prove his patience. 
By most foul death condemn we him, for why beholding or respect shall be of his words. 
They thought these things, and they erred; for why their malice blinded them. 
And they knew not the sacraments of God, neither they hoped the meed of rightfulness or of rightwiseness, neither they deemed the honour of holy souls. 
For why God made man unable to be destroyed or undeadly, and God made man to the image of his likeness. 
But by or through envy of the devil death entered into the world; forsooth they pursue or follow him, that be of his part. 
