3RD EZRA.
Chapter 7.
Then Sisinnes, the under-little-king of Coelesyria and Phoenicia, and Sathrabuzanes, and their fellows, obeyed to these things, that were deemed of king Darius, 
and stood full diligently into the holy works, working together with the elder men of Jews, princes of Syria. 
And the holy works be made welsome, as the prophets Haggai and Zechariah prophesied. 
And they fulfilled all things, after the behest of the Lord God of Israel, and after the counsel of Cyrus, and of Darius, and of Artaxerxes, kings of Persia. 
And our house is ended or completed, in the three and twentieth day of the month of March, in the sixth year of king Darius. 
And the sons of Israel, and the priests, and deacons or Levites, and others that were of the captivity, the which be set to, did after those things that be written in the book of Moses. 
And they offered into the dedication of the temple of the Lord, an hundred bulls, two hundred wethers, four hundred lambs; 
twelve kids, for the sins of all Israel, after the number of the twelve lineages of Israel. 
And the priests and deacons or Levites stood, clothed or clad with the stoles, by their lineages, upon the works of the Lord God of Israel, after the book of Moses; and there were porters or ushers by all the gates. 
And the sons of Israel did that pask, with them that were of the captivity, in the moon of the first month, the fourteenth day, when the priests and deacons or Levites be hallowed. 
And all the sons of captivity they be not hallowed together, for all the Levites be hallowed together. 
And they offered pask to all the sons of captivity, and to their brethren priests, and to themselves. 
And the sons of Israel, the which were of the captivity, all they that had left from all the cursednesses of Gentiles, or heathen folk, of the earth, ate, and sought the Lord; 
and they hallowed the feast day of therf loaves, seven days eating in the sight of the Lord; 
for he converted the counsel of the king of Assyria in them, to comfort the hands of them to the works of the Lord God of Israel. 
