DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 18.
Priests and deacons or Levites, and all men that be of the same lineage, shall have no part and heritage with the tother people of Israel, for they shall eat the sacrifices of the Lord, and the offerings of him; 
and they shall not take any other thing of the possession of their brethren; for the Lord himself is their heritage, as he spake to them. 
This shall be the doom of priests, that is, the thing justly given, either granted, of the people, and of them that offer sacrifices; whether they offer an ox, either a sheep, they shall give to the priest the shoulder, and the paunch, 
the first fruits of wheat, and of wine, and of oil, and a part of wools of the shearing of sheep. 
For thy Lord God hath chosen him of all thy lineages, that he stand and minister to the name of the Lord, he and his sons, without end. 
If a deacon or Levite goeth out of one of thy cities of all Israel, in which he dwelleth, and will come and desireth the place which the Lord choose, 
he shall minister in the name of his Lord God, as all his brethren deacons or Levites, that shall stand in that time before the Lord. 
He shall take the same part of meats, that also other deacons shall take; besides that that is due to him in his city, by succession, either heritage, of father. 
When thou hast entered into the land which thy Lord God shall give to thee, be thou ware lest thou wilt pursue or follow the abominations of those folks; 
none be found in thee that cleanseth his son, either his daughter, and leadeth by the fire, either that asketh questions of diviners that divine about the altars, and that taketh heed to dreams, and chittering of birds; neither any witch be, 
neither any enchanter or tregetour, that is, he who deceiveth men’s eyes so that a thing seem that which it is not; neither a man take counsel of them that have a fiend speaking within them, neither of false diviners, neither seek of dead men the truth. 
For the Lord hath abomination of all these things, and for such wicked-nesses he shall do away them in thine entering. 
Thou shalt be perfect, and without filth, with thy Lord God. 
These heathen men, whose land thou shalt wield, hear them that work by chittering of birds, and false diviners; but thou art taught in other manner of thy Lord God. 
Thy Lord God shall raise a prophet of thy folk, and of thy brethren, as me, to thee, thou shalt hear him; 
as thou askedest of thy Lord God in Horeb, when the company was gathered together, and thou saidest, I shall no more hear the voice of my Lord God, and I shall no more see this greatest fire, lest I die. 
And the Lord said to me, They have spoken well all things. 
I shall raise to them a prophet, like thee, of the midst of their brethren, and I shall put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all things, which I shall command to him. 
And I shall be avenger of him, that will not hear his words, which he shall speak in my name. 
Soothly a prophet shall be slain, which is depraved with pride, and will speak in my name those things, which I commanded not to him, that he should say, either by the name of alien gods. 
That if thou answerest by privy thought, How may I understand the word, which the Lord spake not? 
thou shalt have this sign, or token, if that that that prophet saith before in the name of the Lord, cometh not, the Lord spake it not, but he feigned it through pride of his soul, and there-fore thou shalt not dread him. 
