PSALMS.
Chapter 68.
To victory, the psalm of the song of David. God rise up, and his enemies be scattered; and they that hate him, flee from his face. 
As smoke faileth, fail they; as wax floateth or floweth from the face of fire, so perish the sinners from the face of God. 
And just or rightwise men eat, and make they fully joy or full out glad they in the sight of God; and delight they in gladness. 
Sing ye to God, say ye psalm to his name; make ye a way to him, that ascendeth or goeth up on the going down, the Lord is name of him. Make ye fully joy or Full out joyeth in his sight, his enemies shall be troubled from the face of him, 
which is the father of fatherless and motherless children; and the judge of widows. God is in his holy place; 
God that maketh men of one will to dwell in the house. Which leadeth out by strength them that be bound; in like manner them that make sharp or that stir, that dwell in sepulchres. 
God, when thou wentest out in the sight of thy people; when thou passedest forth in the desert. 
The earth was moved, for heavens dropped down from the face of God of Sinai; from the face of God of Israel. 
God, thou shalt impart willful rain to thine heritage, and it was sick; but thou madest it perfect. 
Thy beasts shall dwell therein; God, thou hast made ready in thy sweetness to the poor man. 
The Lord shall give a word; to them that preach the gospel with much virtue. 
The kings of virtues be made loved of the darling; and to the fair-ness of the house to part spoils. 
If ye sleep among the midst of sorts, either heritages, yet ye shall be as the feathers of the culver that be covered of silver; and the hinder things of the back thereof be in the shining of gold. 
While the king of heaven deemeth kings thereon, they shall be made whiter than snow in Zalmon; 
the hill of God is a fat hill. The crudded hill is a fat hill; 
whereto believe ye falsely, ye crudded hills? The hill in which it pleaseth well God to dwell therein; for the Lord shall dwell into the end. 
The chariot of God is manyfold with ten thousand, a thousand of them that be glad; the Lord was in them, in Sinai, in the holy place. 
Thou ascendedest on high, thou tookest captivity captive; thou receiv-edest gifts among men. For why thou tookest also from them that believed not; for to dwell in the Lord God. 
Blessed be the Lord each day; the God of our healths shall make an easy way to us. 
Our God is God to make men safe; and outgoing or the going-out from death is of the Lord God. 
Nevertheless God shall break the heads of his enemies; the top of the hair of them that go in their trespasses. 
The Lord said, I shall turn from Bashan; I shall turn into the depth of the sea. 
That thy foot be dipped in blood; the tongue of thy dogs be dipped in blood of the enemies of him. 
God, they saw thy goings in; the goings-in or in-goings of my God, of my king, which is in the holy place. 
Princes joined with singers came before; in the middle or in the midst of young damsels singing in tympans. 
In churches bless ye God; bless ye the Lord from the wells of Israel. 
There is Benjamin, a young man; in the ravishing of mind. The princes of Judah were the dukes of them; the princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali. 
God, command thou to thy virtue; God, confirm thou this thing, which thou hast wrought in us. 
From thy temple, which is in Jerusalem; kings shall offer gifts to thee. 
Blame thou the wild beasts of the reed, the gathering together of bulls is among the kine of peoples; that they exclude them that be proved by silver. Destroy thou folks that will or desire battles, 
legates shall come from Egypt; Ethiopia shall come before the hands thereof to God. 
Realms of the earth, sing ye to God; say ye psalm to the Lord. Sing ye to God; 
that ascended or went up on the heaven of heaven at the east. Lo! he shall give to his voice the voice of virtue, 
give ye glory to God on Israel; his great doing and his virtue is in the clouds. 
God is wonderful in his saints; God of Israel, he shall give virtue, and strength, to his people; blessed be God. 
