1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 2.
Forsooth the sons of Israel were Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun, 
Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naph-tali, Gad, and Asher. 
The sons of Judah were Er, Onan, and Shelah; these three were born to him of Shua, a daughter of Canaan. And Er, the first begotten of Judah, was evil before the Lord, and the Lord killed him. 
And Tamar, the wife of the son of Judah, childed to him Perez, and Zerah; and all the sons of Judah were five. 
And the sons of Perez were Hezron, and Hamul. 
And the sons of Zerah were Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara; five altogether. 
The son of Carmi was Achar, that troubled Israel, and sinned in the theft of thing hallowed to the Lord. 
The son of Ethan was Azariah. 
And the sons of Hezron, that were born to him, were Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai. 
And Ram begat Amminadab. And Amminadab begat Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah. 
And Nahshon begat Salma; of whom Boaz was born. 
And Boaz begat Obed; which himself begat Jesse. 
And Jesse begat his first son, Eliab; the second, Abinadab; the third, Shimma; 
the fourth, Nethaneel; the fifth, Raddai; 
the sixth, Ozem; the seventh, David; 
whose sisters were Zeruiah, and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah were three, Abishai, Joab, and Asahel. 
And Abigail childed Amasa, whose father was Jether the Ishmaelite. 
And Caleb, the son of Hezron, took a wife, Azubah, by name, of whom he begat Jerioth; and his sons were Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon. 
And when Azubah was dead, Caleb took a wife, Ephrath, which childed Hur to him. 
And Hur begat Uri; Uri begat Bezaleel. 
After these things Hezron entered to the daughter of Machir, the father of Gilead, and he took her to wife, when he was of sixty years; and she childed Segub to him. 
But also Segub begat Jair; and he had in possession three and twenty cities in the land of Gilead; 
and he took Geshur, and Aram, the cities of Jair, and Kenath, and the towns thereof, of seventy cities. All these were the sons of Machir, the father of Gilead. 
And when Hezron was dead, Caleb entered into Ephratah. And Hezron had a wife Abiah, the which childed to him Ashhur, the father of Tekoa. 
And sons were born of Jerah-meel, the first begotten of Hezron; Ram was the first begotten son of him, and then Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Ahijah. 
Also Jerahmeel wedded another wife, Atarah by name, that was the mother of Onam. 
But and the sons of Ram, the first begotten of Jerahmeel, were Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker. 
And Onam begat sons, Shammai, and Jada. And the sons of Shammai were Nadab, and Abishur; 
and the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, that childed to him Ahban, and Molid. 
And the sons of Nadab were Seled and Appaim; forsooth Seled died without children. 
And the son of Appaim was Ishi, the which Ishi begat Sheshan; certainly Sheshan begat Ahlai. 
And the sons of Jada, the brother of Shammai, were Jether, and Jonathan; but Jether died without sons; 
and Jonathan begat Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 
And Sheshan had not sons, but daughters, and a servant of Egypt, Jarha by name; 
and he gave his daughter to wife to Jarha, which childed Attai to him. 
And Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad. 
Also Zabad begat Ephlal, and Ephlal begat Obed. 
Obed begat Jehu, Jehu begat Azariah, 
Azariah begat Helez, Helez begat Eleasah, 
Eleasah begat Sisamai, Sisamai begat Shallum, 
Shallum begat Jekamiah, Jekamiah begat Elishama. 
And the sons of Caleb, the brother of Jerahmeel, were Mesha, the first begotten son of him, that is the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah, the father of Hebron. 
Certainly the sons of Hebron were Korah, and Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema. 
And Shema begat Raham, the father of Jorkoam; and Rekem begat Shammai. 
The son of Shammai was Maon; and Maon was the father of Bethzur. 
And Ephah, the secondary wife of Caleb, childed Haran, and Moza, and Gazez; and Haran begat Gazez. 
The sons of Jahdai were Regem, and Jotham, and Gesham, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph. 
Maachah, the secondary wife of Caleb, childed Sheber, and Tirhanah. 
And Maachah also bare Shaaph, the father of Madmannah, and she also engendered Sheva, the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsa. 
These were also the sons of Caleb. The sons of Hur, the first begotten son of Ephratah, were Shobal, the father of Kiriathjearim; 
Salma, the father of Bethlehem; Hareph, the father of Bethgader. 
And the sons of Shobal, the father of Kiriathjearim, that saw the half of the restings, 
and was of the kindred of Kiriath-jearim, were Ithrites, and Puhites, and Shumathites, and Mishraites. Of these were born Zareathites, and Eshtaulites. 
The sons of Salma, the father of Bethlehem, and of Netophathites, were the crowns of the house of Joab, and half of the resting of Zorites. 
And the kindreds of scribes, dwell-ing in Jabez, singing, and sounding, and dwelling in tabernacles. These be Kenites, that came of the heat of the father of the house of Rechab. 
