2ND CHRONICLES.
Chapter 7.
And when Solomon shedding out his prayers had full ended them, fire came down from heaven, and it devoured the burnt sacrifices, and the slain sacrifices; and the majesty, or shining, of the Lord full-filled the house. 
And the priests might not enter into the temple of the Lord; for the mighty shining of the Lord had full-filled the temple of the Lord. 
But also all the sons of Israel saw fire coming down, and the glory of the Lord upon the house, and they felled down low to the earth, upon the pavement arrayed, or paved, with stone, and they worshipped, and praised the Lord, For he is good, for his mercy is into the world. 
And the king and all the people offered slain sacrifices before the Lord. 
Therefore king Solomon killed sacrifices of oxen two and twenty thousand, of wethers sixscore thou-sand; and the king and all the people hallowed the house of God. 
And the priests stood in their offices, and the deacons or Levites in organs of songs of the Lord, which king David made to praise the Lord, For his mercy is into the world; and they sang the hymns of David by their hands in organs and other instruments; and the priests sang with trumps before them, and all the people of Israel stood. 
Therefore Solomon hallowed the middle of the large place before the temple of the Lord; for he had offered there burnt sacrifices, and the inner fatnesses of peaceable sacrifices, for the brazen altar which he had made might not sustain, or hold, the burnt sacrifices, and slain sacrifices, and inner fatnesses of peaceable sacrifices. 
Therefore Solomon made a solem-nity in that time in seven days, and all Israel with him, a full great church, or congregation, from the entering of Hamath unto the strand or stream of Egypt. 
And in the eighth day he made a gathering of money, that is, for necessaries of the temple, for he had hallowed the altar in seven days, and had made the solemnity in seven more days. 
Therefore in the three and twenti-eth day of the seventh month, he let the peoples go to their tabernacles, joying and gladding upon the good-ness that God had done to David, and to Solomon, and to his people Israel. 
And Solomon performed or finish-ed the house of the Lord, and the house of the king, and all things which he had disposed in his heart for to do in the house of the Lord, and in his own house; and he had prosperity. 
Forsooth the Lord appeared to him in the night, and said, I have heard thy prayer, and I have chosen this place to me into an house of sacrifice. 
If I close heaven, and rain cometh not down, and if I send, and command to the locust, that he devour the land, and if I send pestilence into my people; 
forsooth if my people is converted, on which my name is called, and if it beseecheth me, and seeketh my face, and doeth penance of his full evil ways, then I shall hear from heaven, and I shall be merciful to the sins of them, and I shall heal the land of them. 
And mine eyes shall be opened, and mine ears shall be raised up to the prayer of him, that prayeth in this place; 
for I have chosen, and hallowed this place, that my name be there without end, and that mine eyes and mine heart dwell there in all days. 
Also if thou goest before me, as David thy father went, and doest by all those things which I commanded to thee, and keepest my rightfulnesses and my dooms, 
I shall raise up the throne of thy realm, as I promised to David thy father, and said, A man of thy gener-ation shall not be taken away, that shall be prince in Israel. 
But if ye turn away, and forsake my rightfulnesses and my commandments, which I have set forth to you, and ye go, and serve alien gods, and worship them, 
I shall draw you away from my land, which I gave to you, and I shall cast away from my face this house which I have builded to my name, and I shall give it into a parable, and into ensample to all peoples. 
And this house shall be into a proverb to all men passing forth; and they shall say, wondering in them-selves, Why did the Lord so to this land, and to this house? 
And they shall answer, For they forsook the Lord God of their fathers, that led them out of the land of Egypt, and they took alien gods, and worship-ped them, and praised them; there-fore all these evils came upon them. 
