EZEKIEL.
Chapter 13.
And the word of the Lord was made to me, and he said, 
Son of man, prophesy thou to the prophets of Israel that prophesy; and thou shalt say to them that prophesy of their heart, Hear ye the word of the Lord. 
The Lord God saith these things, Woe to the unwise prophets, that follow their spirit, and see nothing; 
Israel, thy prophets were as foxes in deserts. 
Ye ascended not or went not up even against, neither again-setted or again-putted a wall for the house of Israel, that ye should stand in battle in the day of the Lord. 
They see vain things, and divine a leasing, and say, The Lord saith, when the Lord sent not them; and they continued to confirm the word. 
Whether ye saw not a vain vision, and spake false divining, and said, The Lord saith, when I spake not? 
Therefore the Lord God saith these things, For ye spake vain things, and saw a leasing, therefore lo! I to you, saith the Lord God. 
And mine hand shall be on the prophets that see vain things, and divine leasings; they shall not be in the counsels of my people, and they shall not be written in the scripture of the house of Israel, neither they shall enter into the land of Israel; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord God. 
For they deceived my people, and said, Peace, peace, and no peace is; and it builded a wall, but they pargeted it with fen without chaffs. 
Say thou to them that parget without tempering, that it shall fall down; for a strong rain shall be overflowing, and I shall give full great stones falling from above, and I shall give a wind of tempest that destroyeth. 
For lo! the wall fell down. Whether it shall not be said to you, Where is the pargeting, which ye pargeted? 
Therefore the Lord God saith these things, And I shall make the spirit of tempests to break out in mine indignation, and a strong rain flowing in my strong vengeance shall be, and great hailstones in my wrath into wasting. 
And I shall destroy the wall, which ye have pargeted without tempering, and I shall make it even with the earth; and the foundament thereof shall be showed, and it shall fall down, and it shall be wasted in the midst thereof; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord. 
And I shall ful fill mine indignation in the wall, and in them that pargeted it without tempering; and I shall say to you, The wall is not, and they be not, that pargeted it, 
that is, the prophets of Israel, that prophesy to Jerusalem, and see to it the vision of peace, and peace is not, saith the Lord God. 
And thou, son of man, set thy face against the daughters of thy people, that prophesy of their heart; and prophesy thou on them, 
and say thou, The Lord God saith these things, Woe to them that sew together cushions under each cubit of the hand, and make pillows under the head of each age, to take souls; and when they deceived the souls of my people, they quickened the souls of them. 
And they defouled me to my people, for an handful of barley, and for a gobbet of bread, that they should slay souls that die not, and quicken souls that live not; and they lied to my people, believing to leasings. 
For this thing the Lord God saith these things, Lo! I to your cushions, by which ye deceive souls flying; and I shall all-break those or them from your arms, and I shall deliver the souls which ye deceive, souls that ye make to fly. 
And I shall all-break your pillows, and I shall deliver my people from your hand; and they shall no more be in your hands, to be robbed; and ye shall know, that I am the Lord. 
For that that ye made falsely the heart of a just man to mourn, whom I made not sorry; and ye comforted the hands of a wicked man, that he should not turn again from his evil way, and live. 
Therefore ye shall not see vain things, and ye shall no more divine false divinings; and I shall deliver my people from your hand, and ye shall know, that I am the Lord. 
