ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 43.
The firmament of highness is the fairness thereof or The firmament of the height is the fairness of him; the fairness of heaven in the sight of glory. 
The sun in beholding, telling in going out, is a wonderful vessel, the work of high God. The sun in the sight, showing out in the issue, a marvellous vessel, the work of the High. 
In the time of midday it burneth the earth; and who shall be able to suffer in the sight of his heat? 
Keeping a furnace in the works of heat; the sun burning hills in three manners, sending out beams of fire or blasting out fiery beams, and shining again with his beams, blind-eth eyes. 
The Lord is great or Great is the Lord, that made it; and in the words of him it hasted its journey. 
And the moon in all men in his time is showing of time, and a sign of the world. And the moon in all things in his time showing of time, and token of the spiritual world. 
A sign of the feast or holy day is taken of the moon; the light which is made little in the end. 
The month is increasing or wax-ing by the name thereof, wonderfully into the ending. A vessel of castles or tents in high things, shining glorious-ly in the firmament of heaven. 
The fairness of heaven is the glory of stars; the Lord on high lighteneth the world. 
In the words of the Holy, those shall stand at the doom; and those shall not fail in their wakings or they shall not fail in their watches. 
See thou the rainbow, and bless thou him that made it; it is full fair in his shining. 
It went about heaven in the com-pass or the circuit of his glory; the hands of high Godor of the High opened it. 
By his commandment he hasted the snow; and he hasteth to send out the lightnings of his doom. 
Therefore the treasures were opened, and the clouds fled out as bees or flew away as birds. 
In his greatness he setted or put the clouds; and stones of hail were broken. 
The Hills shall be moved in his sight; and the south wind shall blow in his will. 
The voice of his thunder shall beat or beateth the earth; the tempest of the north, and the gathering together of wind. And as a bird putting down to sit sprinkleth snow, and the coming down of that snow is as a locust drowning down. 
The eye shall wonder or marvel on the fairness of whiteness thereof; and an heart dreadeth or quaketh on the rain thereof. 
He shall shed or pour out frost as salt up on the earth; and while the wind bloweth, it shall be made as cops or tops of a briar or bramble bush. 
The cold northern wind blew, and crystal of water froze together or the crystal freezed from the water; it resteth on all the gathering together of waters, and it clotheth itself with waters, as with an habergeon. 
And it shall devour hills, and it shall burn the desert; and it shall quench the green thing as fire. 
The medicine of all things is in the hasting or hieing of a cloud; a dew, meeting the heat coming of burning, shall make it low. 
The wind was still in the word of God; by his thought he made peaceable the depth of waters; and the Lord Jesus, that is, God, which is Saviour of all men, planted it. In his word the wind held his peace; by his thinking he shall peace the sea; and the Lord Jesus planted it. 
They that sail in the sea, tell out the perils thereof; and we hearing with our ears, shall wonder. 
There be full clear works, and wonderful or marvellous, diverse kinds of beasts, and of all little beasts, and the creatures of wonderful fishes. 
The end of way is confirmed for it; and all things be made in the word of him. For him is confirmed the end of the way; and in the word of him all things be made together. 
We say many things, and we fail in words; forsooth he is the full ending of words. 
To what thing shall we be mighty, that have glory in all things? for he is all-mighty above or over all his works. 
The Lord is fearedful, and full great; and his power is wonderful or marvellous. 
Glorify ye the Lord as much as ever ye may, yet he shall be mightier; and his great doing is wonderful or marvellous. Ye blessing the Lord, enhance him as much as ye may; for he is more than all praising. Ye enhancing him shall be filled with virtue; travail ye not to know God perfectly in this life, for ye shall not take it perfectly, that is, for it is unpossible, or ye shall not full come. 
Who saw him, and shall tell it out? and who shall magnify him, as he is from the beginning? 
Many things greater than these be hid from us; for we have seen few things of his works. 
Forsooth the Lord made all things; and he gave wisdom to men doing faithfully or piously. 
