PROVERBS.
Chapter 12.
He that loveth chastising or discipline, loveth knowing; but he that hateth blamings, is unwise. 
He that is good, shall draw to himself grace of the Lord; but he that trusteth in his thoughts, doeth wickedly. 
A man shall not be made strong by wickedness; and the root of just or rightwise men shall not be moved. 
A diligent woman is a crown to her husband; and rot is in the bones of that woman, that doeth things worthy of confusion. 
The thoughts of just or rightwise men be dooms; and the counsels of wicked men be guileful. 
The words of wicked men set treason to blood; the mouth of just or rightwise men shall deliver them. 
Overturn thou wicked men, and they shall not be; but the houses of just or rightwise men shall dwell perfectly. 
A man shall be known by his teaching; but he that is vain and heartless, shall be open to despising. 
Better is a poor man, and sufficient to himself, than a glorious man, and needy of bread. 
A just or rightwise man knoweth the lives of his work beasts; but the entrails of wicked men be cruel. 
He that worketh his land, shall be filled with loaves; but he that pursueth or followeth idleness, is most foolish. He that is sweet, that is mild, liveth in temperances; and in his admonishings he forsaketh despisings. 
The desire of a wicked man is the memorial of worst things; but the root of just or rightwise men shall increase. 
For the sins of lips, falling down nigheth to an evil man; but a just or rightwise man shall escape from anguish. 
Of the fruit of his mouth each man shall be ful filled with goods; and by the works of his hands it shall be yielded to him. 
The way of a fool is rightful or right in his eyes; but he that is wise, heareth counsels. 
A fool showeth anon his ire; but he that dissembleth wrongs, is wise. 
He that speaketh that, that he knoweth, is a judge of rightfulness or of rightwiseness; but he that lieth, is a guileful witness. 
A man is that promiseth, and he is pricked as with the sword of conscience; but the tongue of wise men is health. 
The lip of truth shall be steadfast without end; but he that is a sudden witness, maketh ready the tongue of leasing. 
Guile is in the heart of them that think evils; but joy pursueth or followeth them that make counsels of peace. 
Whatever befalleth to a just or rightwise man, it shall not make him sorry or sorrow; but wicked men shall be filled with evil. 
False lips is abomination to the Lord; but they that do faithfully, please him. 
A fell man covereth knowing; and the heart of unwise men stirreth folly. 
The hand of strong men shall have lordship; but the hand that is slow, shall serve to tributes. 
Mourning in the heart of a just or rightwise man shall make him meek; and he shall be made glad by a good word. 
He that despiseth harm for a friend, is a just or rightwise man; but the way of wicked men shall deceive them. 
A guileful man shall not find winning; and the substance of a diligent man shall be the price of gold, that is, preciouser than gold. 
Life is in the path of rightwiseness; but the wrong way leadeth to death. 
