JOSHUA.
Chapter 21.
And the princes of the meines of Levi nighed to Eleazar, the priest, and to Joshua, the son of Nun, and to the dukes of the kindreds, by all the lineages of the sons of Israel; 
and they spake to them in Shiloh, a city of the land of Canaan, and they said, The Lord commanded by the hand of Moses, that cities should be given to us to dwell in, and the suburbs of those or them for our work beasts to be fed in. 
And the sons of Israel gave of their possessions, by commandment of the Lord, cities and the suburbs of those or them. 
And the lot went out into the meine of Kohath, of the sons of Aaron, the priest, of the lineages of Judah, and of Simeon, and of Benjamin, thirteen cities; 
and to the others of the sons of Kohath, that is, to the deacons or Levites that were left, of the lineages of Ephraim, and of Dan, and of the half lineage of Manasseh, ten cities. 
And lot went out to the sons of Gershon, that they should take of the lineages of Issachar, and of Asher, and of Naphtali, and of the half lineage of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities in number; 
and to the sons of Merari, by their meines, of the lineages of Reuben, and of Gad, and of Zebulun, twelve cities. 
And the sons of Israel gave to the deacons or Levites cities, and their suburbs, as the Lord commanded by the hand of Moses; and all gave by lot. 
Of thepossessions of the lineages of the sons of Judah, and of Simeon, Joshua gave cities; 
to the sons of Aaron, by the meines of Kohath, of the kin of Levi, of the which cities these be the names; for the first lot went out to them; 
Kiriatharba, of the father of Anak, which is called Hebron, in the hill of Judah, and the suburbs thereof by compass; 
soothly he gave the fields and towns thereof to Caleb, son of Jephunneh, to have in possession. 
Therefore Joshua gave to the sons of Aaron, the priest, Hebron, to be a city of refuge, and the suburbs thereof, and Libnah with his suburbs, 
and Jattir, and Eshtemoa, 
and Holon, and Debir, 
and Ain, and Juttah, and Bethshe-mesh, with their suburbs; nine cities, of the two lineages, as it is said. 
And of the lineage of the sons of Benjamin, he gave Gibeon, and Geba, 
and Anathoth, and Almon, with their suburbs; four cities. 
All the cities together of the sons of Aaron, the priest, were thirteen, with their suburbs. 
But to the others, by the meines of the sons of Kohath, of the kin of Levi, this possession was given; of the lineage of Ephraim, 
the city of refuge, Shechem, with his suburbs, in the hill of Ephraim, and Gezer, 
and Kibzaim, and Bethhoron, with their suburbs; four cities; 
also of the lineage of Dan, El-tekeh, and Gibbethon, 
and Aijalon, and Gathrimmon, with their suburbs; four cities; 
soothly of the half lineage of Manasseh, Taanach and Gathrimmon, with their suburbs; two cities. 
All the cities were ten, and their suburbs, that were given to the sons of Kohath, of the lower degree. 
Also to the sons of Gershon, of the kin of Levi, Joshua gave of the half lineage of Manasseh, cities of refuge, Golan in Bashan, and Beeshterah, with their suburbs; two cities. 
And of the lineage of Issachar, he gave Kishon, and Dabereh, 
and Jarmuth, and Engannim, with their suburbs; four cities. 
Of the lineage of Asher, he gave Mishal, and Abdon, 
and Helkath, and Rehob, with their suburbs; four cities. 
Also of the lineage of Naphtali, he gave the city of refuge, Kedesh in Galilee, and Hammothdor, and Kartan, with their suburbs; three cities. 
All the cities of the meines of Gershon were thirteen, with their suburbs. 
Soothly to the sons of Merari, deacons or Levites of the lower degree, by their meines, was given Jokneam, of the lineage of Zebulun, and Kartah, 
and Dimnah, and Nahalal; four cities, with their suburbs. 
And of the lineage of Gad, he gave the city of refuge, Ramoth in Gilead, and Mahanaim, 
and Heshbon, and Jazer; four cities, with their suburbs. 
And of the lineage of Reuben, beyond Jordan, against Jericho, he gave the city of refuge, Bezer in the wilderness of Mizar, and Jahazah, 
and Kedemoth, and Mephaath; four cities, with their suburbs. 
All the cities given to the sons of Merari, by their meines and kindreds, were twelve. 
And so all the cities of Levites, in the midst of the possession of the sons of Israel, were eight and forty, with their suburbs; 
and all cities were parted by meines. 
And the Lord gave to Israel all the land that he swore himself to give to their fathers, and they had it in possession, and dwelled therein. 
And peace was given of the Lord into all nations about; and none of the enemies were hardy to withstand the sons of Israel, but all men were driven into their lordship. 
Forsooth neither one word, that he promised himself to give to Israel, was void, but all his words were fulfilled in works. 
