JUDITH.
Chapter 12.
Then Holofernes commanded her to enter, where his treasures were kept, and he commanded her to dwell there; and he ordained, what should be given to her of his feast. 
To whom Judith answered, and said, Now I may not eat of these things, which thou commandedest to be given to me, lest offence come on me; but I shall eat of these things, which I have brought with me. 
To whom Holofernes said, If these things fail, which thou hast brought with thee, what shall we then do to thee? 
And Judith said, Lord, thy soul liveth, for thine handmaid shall not spend all these things, till or to the time that God shall do in mine hands these things which I have thought to do. And his servants led her into the tabernacle, wither he had commanded. 
And she asked of Holofernes, while she entered, that freedom should be given to her to go out to prayer, in the night, and before the light of the day came, to beseech the Lord. 
And he commanded to his chamberlains, that, as it pleased her, she should go out, and enter or come in, for to pray her God by three days. 
And she went out or went forth in nights into the valley of Bethulia, and washed herself in a well of water. 
And as she went up there, she prayed the Lord God of Israel, that he would dress or govern her way to the deliverance of his people. 
And she entered in, and dwelled clean in the tabernacle, till that she took her meat in the eventide. 
And it was done in the fourth day, Holofernes made a supper to his servants, and he said to Bagoas, the chamberlain or gelding, Go thou, and counsel or sweetly move that Hebrew woman, that she consent willfully to dwell with me. 
For it is a foul thing with men of Assyria, if a woman scorn a man, in her doing, and that she pass free from him. 
Then Bagoas entered in to Judith, and said, A good damsel be not ashamed to enter in to my lord, that she be honoured before his face, and that she eat with him, and drink wine with gladness. 
To whom Judith answered, Who am I, that I against-say my lord? 
I shall do all things, that shall be good and best before his eyes. And whatever thing pleaseth him, this thing shall be best to me in all the days of my life. 
And she rose up, and adorned herself with her clothes, and entered, and stood before the face of Holofernes. 
And the heart of Holofernes was stirred to lust; for he was burning in fleshly covetousness or lust of her. 
And Holofernes said to her, Drink thou now, and take meat in gladness or Drink now, and sit down in joy; for thou hast found grace before me. 
And Judith said, Lord, I shall drink, for my soul is magnified today before all the days of my life. 
And she took, and ate, and drank before him those things, which her handmaid had made ready to her. 
And Holofernes was made glad or merry towards her, and he drank full much wine, how much he had never drank in one day in his life. 
