DEUTERONOMY.
Chapter 16.
Keep thou the month of new fruits, and of the beginning of summer, that thou make pask to thy Lord God; for in this month thy Lord God led thee out of Egypt in the night. 
And thou shalt offer pask to thy Lord God, of sheep, and of oxen, in the place which thy Lord God choose, that his name dwell there. 
Thou shalt not eat therein bread dighted with sourdough; in seven days thou shalt eat bread of affliction, with-out sourdough, for suddenly, either hastily, thou wentest out of Egypt, that thou have mind of the day of thy going out of Egypt, in all the days of thy life. 
Nothing dighted with sourdough shall appear in all thy coasts by seven days, and of the flesh of that that is offered in the eventide, shall not dwell in the first day in the morrowtide. 
Thou shalt not be able to offer pask in each of thy cities which thy Lord God shall give to thee, 
but in the place which thy Lord God choose, that his name dwell there; thou shalt offer pask in the eventide, at the going down of the sun, when thou wentest out of Egypt. 
And thou shalt seethe thy offering, and eat it, in the place which thy Lord God hath chosen, and thou shalt rise in the morrowtide of the second day, and thou shalt go into thy tabernacles. 
Six days thou shalt eat therf bread; and in the seventh day, for it is the gathering of thy Lord God, thou shalt not do work. 
Thou shalt number to thee seven weeks, from that day in which thou settedest a sickle into the corn; 
and thou shalt hallow the feast days of weeks to thy Lord God, a willful offering of thine hand, which thou shalt offer by the blessing of thy Lord God. 
And thou shalt eat before thy Lord God, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy servant, and thine handmaid, and the deacon or Levite that is within thy gates, and the comeling, and the fatherless, either motherless child, and the widow, that dwell with you, in the place which thy Lord God choose, that his name dwell there. 
And thou shalt have mind for thou were servant in Egypt, and thou shalt keep and do those things that be commanded. 
And thou shalt hallow the solemnity of tabernacles by seven days, when thou hast gathered thy fruits of thy cornfloor, and of the presser or wine press. 
And thou shalt eat in thy feast, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thine hand-maid, also the deacon or Levite, and the comeling, and the fatherless, either motherless child, and the widow, that be within thy gates. 
By seven days thou shalt hallow feasts to thy Lord God, in the place which the Lord choose; and thy Lord God shall bless thee, in all thy fruits, and in all the work of thine hands, and thou shalt be in gladness. 
In three times by the year all thy male kind shall appear in the sight of thy Lord, in the place which he choose, in the solemnity of therf loaves, and in the solemnity of weeks, and in the solemnity of tabernacles. A man shall not appear void before the Lord; 
but each man shall offer after that that he hath, by the blessing of his Lord God, that he gave to him. 
Thou shalt ordain judges, and exactors, in all thy gates which thy Lord God shall give to thee, by each of thy lineages, that they deem the people by just or right doom, 
and bow they not into the other part for favour, either gift. Thou shalt not take a person, neither gifts, for why gifts blind the eyes of wise men, and change the words of just or rightwise men. 
Thou shalt pursue justly or right-wisely that that is just or right, that thou live, and wield the land which thy Lord God shall give to thee. 
Thou shalt not plant a wood, and each tree, by the altar of thy Lord God; 
neither thou shalt make to thee, and ordain an image; which things thy Lord God hateth. 
