ISAIAH.
Chapter 19.
The burden of Egypt. Lo! the Lord shall ascend on a light cloud, and he shall enter into Egypt; and the simulacra of Egypt shall be moved from his face, and the heart of Egypt shall fail in the midst thereof. 
And I shall make Egyptians to run together against Egyptians, and a man shall fight against his brother, and a man against his friend, a city against a city, and a realm against a realm. 
And the spirit of Egypt shall be broken in the entrails thereof, and I shall cast down the counsel thereof; and they shall ask their simulacra, and their false diviners, and their men that have unclean spirits speaking in the womb, and their diviners by sacrifices made on altars to fiends. 
And I shall betake Egypt into the hand of cruel lords, and a strong king shall be lord of them, saith the Lord God of hosts. 
And the water of the sea shall wax dry, and the flood shall be desolate, and shall be dried. 
And the floods shall fail, and the strands or rivers of the fields shall be made thin, and shall be dried; a reed and spire shall fade. 
The bottom of water shall be made naked, and streams from their wells; and the moist place of all seed shall be dried, it shall wax dry, and it shall not be. 
And the fishers shall mourn, and all that cast hook into the flood shall wail; and they that spread abroad a net on the face of waters shall fade. 
They shall be shamed, that wrought flax, folding and ordaining subtle things. 
And the water places thereof shall be dry; all that made ponds to take fishes, shall be shamed. 
The fond princes or fools of Tanis, the wise counsellors of Pharaoh, gave unwise counsel; how shall ye say to Pharaoh, I am the son of wise men, the son of eld or old kings? 
Where be now thy wise men? Tell they to thee, and show they, what the Lord of hosts thought on Egypt. 
The princes of Tanis be made fools; the princes of Memphis faded; they deceived Egypt, a cornerstone of the peoples thereof. 
The Lord meddled or mingled a spirit of error in the midst thereof; and they made Egypt for to err in all his work, as a drunken man and spewing erreth. 
And work shall not be to Egypt, that it make an head and tail bowing and refraining. 
In that day Egypt shall be as women, and they shall be astonied, and shall dread of the face of the moving of the hand of the Lord of hosts, which he moved on it. 
And the land of Judah shall be to Egypt into dread; each that shall think on it, shall dread of the face of the counsel of the Lord of hosts, which he thought on it. 
In that day five cities shall be in the land of Egypt, and shall speak with the tongue of Canaan, and shall swear by the Lord of hosts; the city of the sun shall be called one. 
In that day the altar of the Lord shall be in the midst of the land of Egypt, and the title of the Lord shall be beside the end thereof; 
and it shall be into a sign and witnessing to the Lord of hosts, in the land of Egypt. For they shall cry to the Lord from the face of the troubler, and he shall send a saviour to them, and a for-fighter, that shall deliver them. 
And the Lord shall be known of Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the Lord in that day; and they shall worship him in sacrifices and gifts, and they shall make vows to the Lord, and they shall pay. 
And the Lord shall smite Egypt with a wound, and shall make it whole; and the Egyptians shall turn again to the Lord, and he shall be pleased in them, and he shall make them whole. 
In that day a way shall be from Egypt into Assyrians, and Egyptians shall serve Assur; and Assur shall enter into Egypt, and Egypt into Assyrians. 
In that day Israel shall be the third to Egypt and to Assur, the blessing in the middle of the earth; 
whom the Lord of hosts blessed, saying, Blessed be my people of Egypt, and the work of mine hands be to Assyrians; but mine heritage be to Israel. 
