EZEKIEL.
Chapter 48.
And these be the names of lineages, from the ends of the north, beside the way of Hethlon, to men going to Hamath, the porch of Enan, the term of Damascus, to the north beside Hamath; and the east coast shall be to it the sea, one part shall be of Dan. 
And from the end of Dan, from the east coast till to the coast of the sea, one part shall be of Asher. 
And on the end of Asher, from the east coast till to the coast of the sea, one of Naphtali. 
And on the term of Naphtali, from the east coast till to the coast of the sea, one of Manasseh. 
And on the end of Manasseh, from the east coast till to the coast of the sea, one of Ephraim. 
And on the end of Ephraim, from the east coast till to the coast of the sea, one of Reuben. 
And on the end of Reuben, from the east coast till to the coast of the sea, one of Judah. 
And on the end of Judah, from the east coast till to the coast of the sea, shall be the place of the first fruits, which ye shall set apart by five and twenty thousand reeds of breadth and of length or in five and twenty thousand rods of breadth and of length, as all parts be, from the east coast till to the coast of the sea; and the saintuary shall be in the midst thereof. 
The place of the first fruits which ye shall set apart to the Lord, the length shall be in five and twenty thousand, and the breadth in ten thousand. 
Forsooth these shall be the first fruits of the saintuary of priests; to the north five and twenty thousand of length, and to the sea ten thousand of breadth; but to the east ten thousand of breadth, and to the south five and twenty thousand of length; and the saintuary of the Lord shall be in the midst thereof. 
The saintuary shall be to priests of the sons of Zadok, that kept my ceremonies, and erred not, when the sons of Israel erred, as also the deacons erred. 
And this portion of the place of the first fruits shall be to them of the first fruits of the land, the holy of holy things, by the term of Levites, either deacons. 
But also to deacons in like manner by the coasts of priests shall be five and twenty thousand of length, and ten thousand of breadth; all the length of five and twenty thousand, and the breadth of ten thousand. 
And they shall not sell thereof, neither shall exchange any part of their portion; and the place of the first fruits of the land shall not be trans-lated, for those or they be hallowed to the Lord. 
Soothly the five thousand, that be left over in breadth, by five and twenty thousand, shall be the unholy things, either common things, of the city, into dwelling place, and into suburbs; and the city shall be in the midst thereof. 
And these shall be the measures thereof; at the north coast, five hundred and four thousand of reeds, and at the south coast, five hundred and four thousand, and at the east coast, five hundred and four thousand, and at the west coast, five hundred and four thousand. 
Forsooth the suburbs of the city at the north shall be two hundred and fifty, and at the south two hundred and fifty, and at the east two hundred and fifty, and at the sea, that is, the west, two hundred and fifty. 
But that that is residue in length, by the place of the first fruits of the saintuary, ten thousand into the east, and ten thousand into the west, shall be as the place of the first fruits of the saintuary; and the fruits shall be into loaves to them that serve the city. 
Forsooth they that serve in the city shall work that land, anyone of all the lineages of Israel. 
All the place of the first fruits of five and twenty thousand, by five and twenty thousand in square, shall be separated into the place of the first fruits of the saintuary, and into possession of the city. 
Forsooth that that is residue, shall be the prince’s part, on each side of the place of the first fruits of the saintuary, and of the possession of the city, even against five and twenty thousand of the place of the first fruits, till to the east end; but also to the sea even against five and twenty thousand, till to the end of the sea, shall be in like manner in the parts of the prince; and the place of the first fruits of the saintuary, and the saintuary of the temple shall be in the midst of it. 
Forsooth from the possession of deacons, and from the possession of the city, which is in the midst of parts of the prince, shall be into the term, either portion, of Judah, and into the term, either portion, of Benjamin; and it shall pertain to the prince. 
And to the other lineages, from the east coast till to the west coast, one to Benjamin. 
And against the term, either portion, of Benjamin, from the east coast till to the west coast, one to Simeon. 
And on the term of Simeon, from the east coast till to the west coast, one to Issachar. 
And on the term of Issachar, from the east coast till to the west coast, one to Zebulun. 
And on the term of Zebulun, from the east coast till to the west coast, one to Gad. 
And on the term of Gad, to the coast of the south into midday, or southward; and the end shall be from Tamar till to the waters of against-saying of Kadesh, and the heritage against the great sea. 
This is the land which ye shall send into part to the lineages of Israel, and these be the partings of those or them, saith the Lord God. 
And these be the goings out of the city; from the north coast thou shalt mete five hundred and four thousand reeds. 
And the gates of the city shall be named in all the lineages of Israel, three gates at the north; one gate of Reuben, one gate of Judah, one gate of Levi. 
And at the east coast, five hundred and four thousand reeds, and three gates; one gate of Joseph, one gate of Benjamin, one gate of Dan. 
And at the south coast thou shalt mete five hundred and four thousand reeds, and three gates shall be of those or them; one gate of Simeon, one gate of Issachar, one gate of Zebulun. 
And at the west coast, five hundred and four thousand reeds, three gates of those or them; one gate of Gad, one gate of Asher, one gate of Naphtali. 
By compass eighteen miles; and the name of the city shall be from that day, The Lord is there. Amen. 
