NUMBERS.
Chapter 4.
And the Lord spake to Moses and to Aaron, and said, 
Take thou the sum or the number of the sons of Kohath, from the midst of Levites, by their houses and meines, 
from the thirtieth year and above unto the fiftieth year, of all that enter, that they stand and minister in the tabernacle of the bond of peace. 
This is the religion of the sons of Kohath; Aaron and his sons shall enter into the tabernacle of the bond of peace, and into the holy of holy things, 
when the tents shall be moved; and they shall do down the veil that hangeth before the gates, and they shall wrap in it the ark of witnessing; 
and they shall cover it again with a veil of jacinthine skins, and they shall stretch forth above a mantle all of jacinth, and they shall lead in the bearing staves. 
Also they shall wrap the table of proposition, either of setting forth, in a mantle of jacinth, and they shall put therewith the censers, and mortars or spoons of gold, little cups, and great cups to shed or pour flowing or liquor sacrifices; loaves shall ever-more be in the table. 
And they shall stretch forth there-above a red mantle, which they shall cover again with a covering of jacinthine skins, and they shall lead in the bearing staves. 
They shall take also a mantle of jacinth with which they shall cover the candlestick, with his lanterns, and tongs, and snuffers, and all the oil vessels that be needful to the lanterns to be ordained; 
and upon all these things they shall put a covering of jacinthine skins, and they shall lead in the bearing staves. 
Also they shall wrap the golden altar in a cloth of jacinth; and they shall stretch forth above it a covering of jacinthine skins, and they shall lead in the bearing staves. 
They shall wrap in a mantle of jacinth all the vessels in which it is ministered in the saintuary, and they shall stretch forth above it a covering of jacinthine skins, and they shall lead in the bearing staves. 
But also they shall cleanse the altar from ashes, and they shall wrap it in a cloth of purple. 
And they shall put with it all the vessels which they use in the service thereof, that is, the resets or recepticles of fire, the tongs, and fleshhooks, and other hooks, and the censers, or the pans of coals; they shall cover all the vessels of the altar altogether in a veil of jacinthine skins, and they shall lead in the bearing staves. 
And when Aaron and his sons have wrapped the saintuary, and all the vessels thereof, in the moving of tents, then the sons of Kohath shall enter, that they bear the things wrapped, and touch not the vessels of the saintuary, lest they die. These be the burdens of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle of the bond of peace, 
on which Eleazar, the son of Aaron, the priest, shall be; to whose care the oil pertaineth to ordain lanterns, and the incense which is made by craft, and the sacrifice which is offered evermore, that is, in each day, and the oil of anointing, and whatever thing pertaineth to the adorning of the tabernacle, and of all vessels that be in the saintuary. 
And the Lord spake to Moses and to Aaron, and said, 
Do not ye lose the people of Kohath from the midst of the Levites; 
but do ye this thing to them, that they live, and die not, if they touch the holy of holy things. Aaron and his sons shall enter, and they shall dispose the works of all the sons of Kohath, and they shall part what who oweth to bear. 
Other men see not by any curiosity those things that be in the saintuary, before that those or they be wrapped; else they shall die. 
And the Lord spake to Moses, and said, 
Take thou the sum or the number also of the sons of Gershon, by their houses, and meines, and kindreds; 
number thou them from thirty years and above unto fifty years, all that enter and serve in the tabernacle of the bond of peace. 
This is the office of the sons of Gershonites, 
that they bear the curtains of the tabernacle, and the roof, or covering, of the bond of peace, another covering, and the veil of jacinth that shall be above all things, and the tent that hangeth in the entry of the tabernacle of the bond of peace; 
and the curtains of the great entry, and the veil in the entry, that is before the tabernacle. 
When Aaron commandeth and his sons, the sons of Gershon shall bear all things that pertain to the altar, the cords, and the vessels, or instruments, of their service; and all they shall know, to what charge they owe to be bound. 
This is the office of the meines of Gershonites, in the tabernacle of the bond of peace; and they shall be under the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron, the priest. 
Also thou shalt number the sons of Merari, by the meines and houses of their fathers, 
from thirty years and above unto fifty years, all that enter to the office of their service, and to the adorning of the bond of peace of witnessing. 
These be their charges or burdens; they shall bear the tables of the tabernacle, and the bars thereof, the pillars, and their foundaments or bases; 
also the pillars of the great entry by compass, with their foundaments, and their stakes, and their cords; and they shall take all the instruments and the appurtenance of the tabernacle, by number, and so they shall bear them. 
This is the office of the meine of Merarites, and the service in the tabernacle of the bond of peace; and they shall be under the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron, the priest. 
Therefore Moses and Aaron and the princes of the synagogue, numbered the sons of Kohath, by the kindreds, and houses of their fathers, 
from thirty years and above unto the fiftieth year, all that enter to the service of the tabernacle of the bond of peace; 
and they were found two thousand seven hundred and fifty. 
This is the number of the people of Kohath, which entereth into the taber-nacle of the bond of peace; Moses and Aaron numbered these, by the word of the Lord, by the hand of Moses. 
And the sons of Gershon were numbered, by the kindreds and houses of their fathers, 
from thirty years and above unto fifty years, all that enter that they serve in the tabernacle of the bond of peace; 
and they were found two thousand six hundred and thirty. 
This is the people of Gershonites, that Moses and Aaron numbered, by the kindreds and houses, by the word of the Lord. 
And the sons of Merari were numbered, by the kindreds, and houses of their fathers, 
from thirty years and above unto fifty years, all that enter to fulfill the customs, or the services, of the tabernacle of the bond of peace; 
and they were found three thousand and two hundred. 
This is the number of the sons of Merari, which Moses and Aaron numbered, by the commandment of the Lord, by the hand of Moses. 
All that were numbered of the Levites, and which Moses and Aaron and the princes of Israel made to be numbered, by the kindreds, and houses of their fathers, 
from thirty years and above unto fifty years, and entered to the service of the tabernacle, and to bear the charges thereof, 
were altogether eight thousand five hundred and fourscore. 
By the word of the Lord Moses numbered them, each man by his office and his charges, as the Lord commanded to him. 
