1ST KINGS.
Chapter 4.
Forsooth king Solomon was reign-ing on all Israel. 
And these were the princes which he had; Azariah, the son of Zadok, the priest; 
Elihoreph, and Ahiah, sons of Shisha, were scribes; Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, was chancellor; 
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was prince upon the host; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests; 
Azariah, the son of Nathan, was upon them that stood nigh to the king; Zabud, the son of Nathan, wasa priest, a friend of the king; 
and Ahishar was steward of the house; and Adoniram, the son of Abda, was upon the tributes. 
Forsooth Solomon had twelve prefects, either chief ministers, on all Israel, that gave lifelode to the king, and to his house; soothly by each month by itself in the year, each prefect by himself ministered necessaries. 
And these be the names of them; Ben-hur, in the hill of Ephraim; 
Ben-dekar, in Makaz, and in Shaal-bim, and in Bethshemesh, and in Elon, and in Bethhanan; 
Ben-hesed, in Aruboth; and Soch-oh, and all the land of Hepher, was his; 
Ben-abinadab, whose was all Naph-ath, had Dor Taphath, the daughter of Solomon, to wife. 
Baana, the son of Ahilud, governed Taanach, and Megiddo, and all Bethshean, which is beside Zartanah, under Jezreel, from Bethshean unto Abelmeholah, even against Jokneam. 
Ben-geber, in Ramoth of Gilead, had Havoth-jair, of the son of Man-asseh, in Gilead; he was sovereign in all the country of Argob, which is in Bashan, to sixty great cities and walled, that had brazen locks. 
Ahinadab, the son of Iddo, was sovereign in Mahanaim; 
Ahimaaz was in Naphtali, but also he had Basmath, the daughter of Solomon, in wedlock; 
Baanah, the son of Hushai, was in Asher, and in Aloth; 
Jehoshaphat, the son of Paruah, was in Issachar; 
Shimei, the son of Elah, was in Benjamin: 
Geber, the son of Uri, was in the land of Gilead, and in the land of Sihon, king of Amorites, and in the land of Og, king of Bashan, and upon all things that were in that land. 
The people of Judah and Israel were unnumberable, as the sand of the sea in multitude, eating, and drinking, and being glad. 
Forsooth Solomon was in his lord-ship, and had all the realms, as from the flood of the land of Philistines, unto the last part of Egypt, of men offering gifts, that is, tributes, to him, and serving to him, in all the days of his life. 
Forsooth the meat of Solomon was by each day, thirty cors of clean flour of wheat, and sixty cors of meal, 
ten fat oxen, and twenty oxen of the pasture, and an hundred wethers, besides hunting of harts, of goats, and of bugles, and of birds made fat. 
For he held all the country that was beyond the flood, as from Tiphsah unto Azzah, and all the kings of those countries; and he had peace by each part in compass. 
And Judah and Israel dwelled without any dread, each man under his vine, and under his fig tree, from Dan unto Beersheba, in all the days of Solomon. 
And Solomon had forty thousand cratches of horses for chariots, and twelve thousand of road horses; 
and the foresaid prefects or chief masters of the king nourished those horses. But also with great busyness they gave the necessaries to the board of king Solomon, in their time; 
also they brought barley, and forage of horses and of work beasts, into the place where the king was, after it was ordained to them. 
Also God gave to Solomon wisdom, and prudence full much, and largeness of heart, as the sand that is in the brink of the sea. 
And the wisdom of Solomon passed the wisdom of all the east men, and Egyptians; 
and he was wiser than all men; he was wiser than Ethan the Ezrahite, and than Heman, and than Chalcol, and than Darda, the sons of Mahol; and he was named among all folks by compass. 
And Solomon spake three thousand parables, and his songs were a thousand and five; 
and he disputed of trees, from a cedar which is in Lebanon, till to the hyssop that goeth out of the wall; he disputed of work beasts, and birds, and of creeping beasts, and of fishes. 
And they came from all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and from all the kings of the earth, that heard his wisdom. 
