LUKE.
Chapter 23.
And all the multitude of them arose, and led him to Pilate. 
And they began to accuse him, and said, We have found this turning upside-down our folk, and forbidding tribute to be given to the emperor or to Caesar, and saying that himself is Christ a king or and saying himself to be Christ king. 
And Pilate asked him, and said, Art thou king of Jews? And he answered, and said, Thou sayest. 
And Pilate said to the princes of priests, and to the people, I find nothing of cause in this man. 
And they waxed stronger, and said, He moveth the people, teaching through all Judea, beginning from Galilee till hither. 
And Pilate hearing Galilee asked, if he were a man of Galilee. 
And when he knew that he was of the power of Herod, he sent him to Herod; which was or he was at Jerusalem in those days. 
And when Herod saw Jesus, he joyed full much; for long time he coveted to see him, for he heard many things of him, and hoped to see some token or some miracle done of him. 
And he asked him in many words; and he answered nothing to him. 
And the princes of priests, and the scribes stood, steadfastly accusing him. 
But Herod with his host despised him, and scorned him, and clothed him with a white cloth, and sent him again to Pilate. 
And Herod and Pilate were made friends from that day or in that day; for before they were enemies together. 
And Pilate called together the princes of priests, and the magistrates of the people, 
and said to them, Ye have brought to me this man, as turning away the people, and lo! I asking before you find no cause in this man, of these things, in which ye accuse him; 
neither Herod, for he hath sent him again to us, and lo! nothing worthy of death is done to him. 
And therefore I shall amend him, and deliver himchastised. 
But he must needs or had need to deliver to them one by the feast day. 
And all the people cried together, and said, Do him away, and deliver to us Barabbas; 
which was sent into prison for disturbing, or some dissention, or sedition, made in the city, and for manslaying. 
And again Pilate spake to them, and would deliver or willing to deliver Jesus. 
And they cried out, and said, Crucify, crucify him. 
And the third time he said to them, For what evil hath he done? I find no cause of death in him; there-fore I shall chastise him, and I shall deliver him. 
And they continued with great voices asking or they continued asking with great voices, that he should be crucified; and the voices of them waxed strong. 
And Pilate deemed their asking to be done. 
And he delivered to them him, that for manslaying and sedition was sent into prison, whom they asked; but he betook Jesus to their will. 
And when they led him, they took a man, Simon of Cyrene, coming from the town, and they laid on him the cross to bear after Jesus. 
And there pursued him much people, and women that bewailed, and bemourned him. 
And Jesus turned to them, and said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not ye weep on me, but weep ye on yourselves and on your sons. 
For lo! days shall come, in which it shall be said, Blessed be barren women, and the wombs that have not born children, and the teats that have not given suck. 
Then they shall begin to say to mountains, Fall ye down on us, and to small hills, Cover ye us. 
For if in a green tree they do these things or if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in a dry? 
Also other two wicked men were led with him, to be slain. 
And when they came into a place, that is called of Calvary, +or after that they came to a place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the thieves, one on the right half, and the other on the left half. 
But Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And they parted his clothes, and cast lots. 
And the people stood abiding; and the princes scorned him with them, and said, Other men he made safe; make he himself safe, if this be Christ, the chosen of God. 
And the knights nighed, and scorned him, and proffered or offered vinegar to him, 
and said, If thou art king of Jews, make thee safe. 
And the superscription was written over him with Greek letters, and of Latin, and of Hebrew, This is the king of Jews. 
And one of these thieves that hanged, blasphemed him, and said, If thou art Christ, make thyself safe and us. 
But the other answering, blamed him, and said, Neither thou dreadest God, thou that art in the same condemnation? or the same damnation? 
And truly we justly, for we have received worthy things to our works or deeds; but this did nothing of evil or soothly this hath done no evil. 
And he said to Jesus, Lord, have mind of me, when thou comest into thy kingdom. 
And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to thee, this day thou shalt be with me in paradise. 
And it was almost the sixth hour, and darknesses were made on all the earth, into or till the ninth hour. 
And the sun was made dark, and the veil of the temple was rent atwo or was cut down the middle. 
And Jesus crying with a great voice, said, Father, into thine hands I betake my spirit. And he saying these things, gave up the ghost, or sent out the spirit, or died. 
And the centurion seeing that thing that was done, glorified God, and said, Verily, this man was just. 
And all the people of them that were there together at this spectacle, and saw those things that were done, smote their breasts, and turned again. 
But all his known stood afar, and women that pursued him from Galilee, seeing these things. 
And lo! a man, Joseph by name, of Arimathaea, a city of Judea, that was a decurion, that is, having ten men under him, a good man and a just or a good man and just, 
this man consented not to the counsel and to the deeds of them; and he abode the kingdom of God. 
This Joseph came to Pilate, and asked the body of Jesus, 
and took it down, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and laid him in a grave hewn, in which not yet any man had been laid or was put. 
And the day was the evening of the holiday, +or of the holy day, or the making ready of pask, and the sabbath began to shine. 
And the women pursuing, that came with him from Galilee, saw the grave, and how his body was laid. 
And they turned again, and made ready sweet smelling spices, and ointments; but in the sabbath they rested, after the commandment. 
