PROVERBS.
Chapter 21.
As partings of waters, so the heart of the king is in the power of the Lord; whither ever he will, he shall bow it. 
Each way of a man seemeth rightful or right to himself; but the Lord weigheth the hearts. 
To do mercy and doom, pleaseth more the Lord, than sacrifices. 
Enhancing of eyes is the alarging of the heart; the lantern of wicked men is sin. 
The thoughts of a strong man be ever in abundance; but each slow man is ever in neediness. 
He that gathereth treasures by the tongue of a lie maker, is vain, and without heart; and he shall be hurled to the snares of death. 
The ravens of unpious men shall draw them down; for they would not do doom. 
The wayward way of a man is alien from God; but the work of him that is clean of sin, is rightful or right. 
It is better to sit in the corner of an house without roof, than with a woman full of chiding, and in a common house. 
The soul of an unpious man desireth evil; he shall not have mercy on his neighbour. 
When a man full of pestilence is punished, a little man of wit shall be wiser; and if he pursueth or follow a wise man, he shall take knowing. 
A just or rightwise man of the house of a wicked man thinketh, to withdraw wicked men from evil. 
He that stoppeth his ear at the cry of a poor man, shall cry also, and he shall not be heard. 
A gift hid quencheth chidings; and a gift in the bosom quencheth most indignation. 
It is joy to a just or rightwise man to make doom; and it is dread to them that work wickedness. 
A man that erreth from the way of doctrine, shall dwell in the company of giants, that is, of men evil ruled, either of fiends. 
He that loveth meats, shall be in neediness; he that loveth wine and fat things, shall not be made rich. 
An unpious man shall be given for a just or rightwise man; and a wicked man shall be given for a rightful or the right man. 
It is better to dwell in a desert land, than with a woman full of chiding, and wrathful. 
Desirable treasure and oil is in the dwelling place of a just or rightwise man; and an unprudent man shall destroy it. 
He that pursueth rightfulness or followeth rightwiseness and mercy, shall find life and rightwiseness and glory. 
A wise man ascended into the city of strong men, and destroyed the strength of the trust thereof. 
He that keepeth his mouth and his tongue, keepeth his soul from anguishes. 
A proud man and boaster is called a fool, that worketh pride in ire. 
Desires slay a slow man; for his hands would not work anything. 
All day he coveteth and desireth; but he that is a just or rightwise man, shall give, and shall not cease. 
The offerings of wicked men, that be offered of great trespass, be abominable. 
A false witness shall perish; a man obedient shall speak victory. 
A wicked man maketh firm his cheer unshamefastly; but he that is rightful or right, amendeth his way. 
No wisdom there is, no prudence there is, no counsel there is, against the Lord. 
An horse is made ready to the day of battle; but the Lord shall give health. 
