PRAYER OF AZARIAH & SONG OF THE THREE.
Chapter 1.
And they walked in the midst of the flame, and praised God, and blessed the Lord. And they walked in the middle of the flame, praising God, and blessing the Lord. 
Forsooth Azariah stood, and prayed thus; and he opened his mouth in the midst of the fire, and said, 
Lord, God of our fathers, thou art blessed, and worthy to be praised, and thy name is glorious into worlds; Blessed art thou, Lord God of our Fathers, and praiseful, or worthy to be praised, and thy name glorious into worlds; 
for thou art rightful in all (the) things which thou didest to us, and all thy works be true; and thy ways be rightful or right, and thy dooms (or thy judgements)be true. 
For thou hast done true dooms, by or after all (the) things which thou broughtest in on us, and on Jeru-salem, the holy city of our fathers; for in truth and in doom, thou broughtest in all these things for our sins. 
For we sinned, and did wickedly, going away from thee, 
and we trespassed in all things, and we heard not, neither kept thy commandments, neither we did as thou commandedest to us, (so) that it should be well to (or with) us. and trespassed in all things, and heard not thine behests, neither kept (them), neither did as thou commandedest to us, that it were well to us. 
Therefore thou didest by thy very doom (or in thy true judgement) all (the) things which thou broughtest in on us, and all (the) things which thou didest to us; Therefore all (the) things that thou leddest in upon us, and all (the) things that thou didest to us, in very doom thou hast done; 
and thou hast betaken us in(to) the hands of (our) enemies, wicked men, and worst trespassers, and to the unjust king, and worst over all (the) earth. 
And now we may not (or we be not able to) open the mouth; we be made (a) shame and (a) reproof to thy servants, and to them that worship thee. 
We beseech (thee), give thou not us to (our) enemies without end, for thy name, and destroy thou not thy testament (or thy covenant), We pray, betake not us into without end, for thy name, and destroy not thy testament, 
and take thou not away thy mercy from us, for Abraham, thy darling or thy dearworthy, and Isaac, thy servant, and Israel, or Jacob, thine holy (one); 
to which thou spakest, promising that thou shouldest multiply their seed as the stars of heaven, and as (the) gravel which is in (or on) the brink of the sea. 
For why, Lord, we be made little, more than all folks, and we be low in all (the) earth today, for our sins. For, Lord, we be made little, more than all heathen men, and we be meek, or low, in each land this day, for our sins. 
And in this time is no prince or And there is not in this time prince, and (or) duke, and (or) prophet, neither burnt sacrifice, neither sacrifice, neither offering, neither incense, neither place of first fruits before thee, (so) that we may or we be able to find thy mercy; 
but be we received in (or with a) contrite soul, and in (or with a) spirit of meekness. 
As in (the) burnt sacrifice of rams, and of bulls, and as in thousands of fat lambs, so our sacrifice be made today in thy sight, that it please thee; for no shame or confusion is to them that trust in thee. 
And now we pursue (or follow) thee in (or with) all the heart, and we dread thee, and we seek thy face. 
Shame thou not us, but do with us by or after thy mildness, and by or after the multitude of thy mercy. 
And deliver thou us in thy marvels, and give thou glory to thy name, Lord; and all men be (a)shamed, that show evils to thy servants; 
be they shamed in all thy might (or in all their might), and the strength of them be all-broken; be they confounded in all thy power (or in all their power), and the strength of them be broken (al)together; 
and they shall know, that thou art the Lord God alone, and glorious on (or over) the roundness of (the) lands or the roundness of (the) earth’s. (Amen). 
And the ministers (or the servants) of the king, that had sent them (in), ceased not to make hot the furnace with cement or naphtha, and hards of flax or of hemp, and pitch, and scions or cuttings of vines. 
And the flame was shed or poured out over the furnace by nine and forty cubits, 
and brake out, and burnt them that it found of (the) Chaldeans beside the furnace. and brake out, and burnt whom of (the) Chaldeans it found beside the furnace. 
Forsooth the angel of the Lord came down with Azariah and his fellows, into the furnace, and smote out the flame of the fire from the furnace; 
and made the midst of the furnace as the wind of dew blowing; and utterly the fire touched not them, neither made sorry, neither did anything of dis-ease or neither made sorrowful, neither brought in anything of heaviness. 
Then these three as of one mouth praised and glorified God, and blessed God in the furnace, and said, 
Lord God of our fathers, thou art blessed, and worthy to be praised, and glorious, and above enhanced into worlds (or for evermore); Blessed art thou, Lord God of our fathers, and worthy to be praised, and glorious, and above enhanced into worlds; 
and blessed is the name of thy glory, which name is holy, and worthy to be praised, and above enhanced in(to) all worlds. and blessed (is) the name of thy glory, the which is holy, and worthy to be praised, and above raised in(to) all worlds. 
Thou art blessed in the holy temple of thy glory, and above praiseable, and glorious into worlds. Blessed art thou in the holy temple of thy glory, and thou above praiseful, and glorious into worlds. 
Thou art blessed in (or on) the throne of thy realm, and above praiseable, and above enhanced into worlds. Blessed art thou in the throne of thy realm, and above praiseful, and above raised into worlds. 
Thou art blessed, that beholdest (the) depths of (the) waters, and sittest on cherubim, and praiseable, and above enhanced into worlds. Blessed art thou, that beholdest (the) deepness-es, and sittest upon cherubim, and praiseful, and above raised into worlds. 
Thou art blessed in the firmament of heaven, and praiseable, and glorious into worlds. Blessed art thou in the firmament of heaven, and praiseful, and glorious into worlds. 
All (the) works of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance (or raise) ye him into worlds. 
Angels of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Heavens, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
All (the) waters that be above (the) heavens, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
All the virtues of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. (All the hosts or the powers of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and exalt him above all for evermore.) 
Sun and moon, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Stars of heaven, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Rain and dew, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Each spirit of God, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Fire and heat, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Cold and summer, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Dews and white frost, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Black frost and cold, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance ye him into worlds. Binding frost and cold, bless ye to the Lord; praise ye, and above raise ye him into worlds. 
Ices and snows, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Nights and days, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Light and darkness, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Lightnings and clouds, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
The earth bless the Lord; praise it, and above enhance it him or above raise (ye) him into worlds. (The earth, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and exalt ye him above all for evermore.) 
Mountains and little hills, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
All burgeoning things in (the) earth, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Wells, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Seas and floods (or Seas and rivers), bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Whales, and all things that be moved in (the) waters (or Whales, and all things that move in the waters), bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
All birds of the air, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance ye him into worlds. All fowls of heaven, bless ye to the Lord; praise ye, and above raise ye him into worlds. 
All wild beasts and tame beasts, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance ye him into worlds. All beasts and eatable (or edible), or little, beasts, bless ye to the Lord; praise ye, and above raise ye him into worlds. 
Sons of men, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Israel bless the Lord; praise it, and above enhance it him or above raise (ye) him into worlds. (Israel, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and exalt ye him above all for evermore.) 
Priests of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Servants of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Spirits and souls of just men, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance or raise ye him into worlds. 
Holy men and meek of heart, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance ye him into worlds. Holy and meek in heart, bless ye to the Lord; praise ye, and above raise ye him into worlds. 
Hananiah, Azariah, and Mishael, bless ye the Lord; praise ye, and above enhance ye him into worlds. The which Lord ravished us from hell, and saved (us) from the hand of death, and delivered us from the midst of flame burning, and ravished us from the midst of (the) fire, (or The which Lord delivered us from the grave, and saved us from the hand of death, and delivered us from the midst of the burning flame, yea, delivered us from the midst of the fire). Hananiah, Azariah, and Mishael, bless ye to the Lord; praise ye, and above raise ye him into worlds. Which delivered us from hell, and made safe from the hand of death, and delivered from the middle of the burning flame, and ravished us out of the middle of the fire. 
Acknowledge ye to the Lord, for he is good; for his mercy is into the worlds (or for evermore). 
All religious men or All (the) religious, bless ye the Lord, God of gods; praise ye, and acknowledge to him, for his mercy is into all worlds (or for evermore). 
