JOHN.
Chapter 20.
And in one day of the week, Mary Magdalene came early to the grave, when it was yet dark. And she saw the stone moved away from the grave. (And early on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb, when it was still dark. And she saw the stone moved away from the tomb.) 
Therefore she ran, and came to Simon Peter, and to another disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith to them, They have taken (away) the Lord from the grave, (or and said to them, They have taken the Lord away from the tomb), and we know not, where they have laid him. 
Therefore Peter went out, and that other disciple, and they came to the grave. (And so Peter went out, and that other disciple, and they came to the tomb.) 
And they twain ran together, and that other disciple ran before Peter, and came first to the grave. (And the two men ran together, and that other disciple ran before Peter, and came to the tomb first.) 
And when he stooped (down), he saw the sheets lying (there), nevertheless he entered not (or but he did not go in). 
Therefore Simon Peter came (pur)suing him, and he entered into the grave, and he saw the sheets laid (there), (And so Simon Peter came following behind him, and he entered into the tomb, and he saw the sheets laid there,) 
and the sudarium that was on his head, not laid with the sheets, but by itself wrapped into a place (or but rolled up in a place by itself). 
Therefore then that disciple that came first to the grave, entered, and saw, and believed. (And then that disciple who first came to the tomb, entered, and saw everything, and believed.) 
For they knew not yet the scripture, that it behooved him to rise again from death. Forsooth they wist not yet the scripture, for it behooved him to rise again from (the) dead. 
Therefore the disciples went again to themselves. (And so the disciples went off by themselves.) 
But Mary stood at the grave withoutforth weeping. And while she wept, she bowed her(self)(down), and beheld forth into the grave. (But Mary stood at the tomb outside weeping. And while she wept, she bowed herself down, and looked into the tomb.) 
And she saw two angels sitting in white, one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus was laid. 
And they say to her, Woman, what weepest thou? (or And they said to her, Woman, why weepest thou?) She said to them, For they have taken away my Lord, and I know not, where they have laid him. 
When she had said these things, she turned backward or she turned aback, and saw Jesus standing (there), and knew not that it was Jesus. 
Jesus saith to her, Woman, what weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She guessing that he was the gardener, saith to him, Sire, if thou hast taken him up, say to me, where thou hast laid him, and I shall take him away. (Jesus said to her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She thinking that he was the gardener, said to him, Sir, if thou hast taken him some place, tell me, where thou hast laid him, and I shall take him away.) 
Jesus saith to her, Mary. She turned, and saith to him, Rabboni, that is to say, Master (or Teacher). 
Jesus saith to her, Do not thou touch me, for I have not yet ascended to my Father; but go to my brethren, and say to them, I ascend to my Father and to your Father, to my God and to your God. 
Mary Magdalene came, telling to the disciples, That I saw the Lord, and these things he said to me. 
Therefore when it was even(ing) in that day, in one of the sabbaths, and the gates were shut, where the disciples were gathered, for dread of the Jews, Jesus came, and stood in the middle of the disciples, and he saith to them, Peace be to you. (And so when it was evening on that day, on one of the Sabbaths (or on the first day of the week), and the doors were shut, where the disciples were gathered, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came, and stood in the midst of the disciples, and he said to them, Peace be to you.) 
And when he had said this, he showed to them his hands and side; therefore the disciples joyed (or and so the disciples rejoiced), for the Lord was seen. 
And he saith to them again, Peace (be) to you; as the Father sent me, I send you. 
When he had said this, he blew on them, and said, Take ye the Holy Ghost (or and said, Receive the Holy Spirit); 
whose sins ye forgive, those be forgiven to them; and whose sins ye withhold, those be withheld. 
But Thomas, one of the twelve, that is said Didymus (or who is called the Twin), was not with them, when Jesus came. 
Therefore the other disciples said, We have seen the Lord. And he said to them, No But I see in his hands the printing of the nails, (or And he said to them, Unless I see the scarring, or the marks, from the nails in his hands), and put my finger into the place of the nails, and put mine hand into his side, I shall not believe (it). 
And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them. Jesus came, while the gates were shut, and stood in the middle, and said, Peace (be) to you, (or And Jesus came, while the doors were shut, and stood in their midst, and said, Peace be to you). 
Afterward he saith to Thomas, Put in here thy finger, and see mine hands, and put hither thine hand, and put it into my side, and do not thou be unbelieveful, but faithful. 
Thomas answered, and said to him, My Lord and my God. 
Jesus saith to him, Thomas, for thou hast seen me, thou believedest; blessed be they, that saw not, and have believed. 
And Jesus did many other signs (or miracles) in the sight of his disciples, which be not written in this book. 
But these be written, that ye believe, that Jesus is Christ, the Son of God, and that ye believing have life in his name. (But these be written, so that ye believe, that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that ye believing have life in his name.) 
