MATTHEW.
Chapter 7.
Do not ye deem, that ye be not deemed; (Do not judge, so that ye be not judged;) 
for in what doom ye deem, ye shall be deemed, and in what measure ye mete, it shall be meted again to you. (for with what judgement ye judge, ye shall be judged, and by what measure ye measure, it shall be measured unto you.) 
But what seest thou a little mote in the eye of thy brother (or And why seest thou a little speck in thy brother’s eye), and seest not a beam in thine own eye? 
Or how sayest thou to thy brother, Brother, suffer that I shall do out a mote from thine eye, and lo! a beam is in thine own eye? (or Brother, allow me to take out the speck from thine eye, and behold! a beam is in thine own eye?) 
Hypocrite, first do out the beam of thine eye/do thou out first the beam of thine own eye, and then thou shalt see to do out the mote of the eye of thy brother. 
Do not ye give holy thing(s) to hounds, neither cast ye your margarites before swine, (or throw your pearls to the hogs, or to the pigs), lest peradventure they defoul them with their feet, and the hounds be turned, and tear you all to pieces. 
Ask ye, and it shall be given to you; seek ye, and ye shall find; knock ye, and it shall be opened to you. 
For each that asketh, taketh, (or For each one who asketh, receiveth); and he that seeketh, findeth; and it shall be opened to him, that knocketh. 
What man of you is, that if his son ask him (for some) bread, whether he will take to him a stone? (or will he give him a stone?) 
Or if he ask (for)a fish, whether he will give to him an adder? (or will he give him a snake?) 
Therefore if ye, when ye be evil men, know how to give good gifts to your sons, how much more your Father that is in heavens shall give good things to men that ask him? 
Therefore all things, whatever things ye will that men do to you, do ye to them, for this is the law and the prophets. (And so everything, whatever ye want or desire people to do for you, do that for them, for this is the Law and the Prophets.) 
Enter ye by the strait gate (or Enter by the narrow gate); for the gate that leadeth to perdition, or to damnation, is large, and the way is broad, and there be many that enter by it. 
How strait (or narrow) is the gate, and narrow the way, that leadeth to life, and there be few that find it. 
Be ye ware of false prophets, that come to you in clothings of sheep, but withinforth they be wolves of raven or but within they be ravishing (or snatching) wolves; 
of their fruits ye shall know them. Whether men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of briers? (by their fruits ye shall know them. Do people gather grapes from thorns, or figs from briars?) 
So every good tree maketh good fruits; but an evil tree maketh evil fruits. 
A good tree may not make evil fruits, neither an evil tree may make good fruits. (A good tree cannot make bad fruits, nor can a bad tree make good fruits.) 
Every tree that maketh not good fruit, shall be cut down, and shall be cast into the fire (or and shall be thrown into the fire). 
Therefore of (or by) their fruits ye shall know them. 
Not every man that saith to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heavens; but he that doeth the will of my Father that is in heavens, he shall enter into the kingdom of heavens. 
Many shall say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, whether we have not prophesied in thy name, and have cast out fiends or devils in thy name, and have done many virtues in thy name? (Many shall say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and have thrown out demons in thy name, and have done many works of power, or miracles, in thy name?) 
And then I shall acknowledge to them, That I knew you never; depart away from me, ye that work wickedness. 
Therefore every man that heareth these my words, and doeth them, shall be made like to a wise man, that hath builded his house on a stone. 
And rain came down, and floods came, and winds blew, and rushed into that house; and it felled not down, for it was founded on a stone. 
And every man that heareth these my words, and doeth them not, is like a fool, that hath builded his house on gravel or on sand. 
And rain came down, and floods came, and winds blew, and hurled against that house; and it felled down, and the falling down thereof was great. 
And it was done, when Jesus had ended these words, the people wondered on his teaching; 
for he taught them, as he that had power, and not as the scribes and the Pharisees. 
