1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 4.
So a man guess, or deem, us as ministers of Christ, (or So think of us as servants of the Messiah), and (as) dispensers of the mysteries of God. 
Now it is sought here among the dispensers, that a man be found true. 
And to me it is for the least thing, that I be deemed of you (or if I be judged by you), or of man’s day; but neither I deem (or I judge) myself. 
For I am nothing over-trusting, or guilty, to myself, but not in this thing I am justified; for he that deemeth me, is the Lord. 
Therefore do not ye deem before the time, till that the Lord come, which shall lighten the hid things of (the) darknesses, and shall show the counsels of (the) hearts; and then praising shall be to each man of God. (And so do not judge before the time, until that the Lord come, who shall lighten things hidden in the darkness, and shall reveal the plans in the hearts; and then praises shall be to each person in God.) 
And, brethren, I have transfigured these things into me and into Apollos, for you; that in us ye learn (or so that ye can learn from us), lest over that it is written or lest over that that is written, one against another be blown with pride for another man. 
Who deemeth thee? (or Who judgeth thee?) And what hast thou, that thou hast not received? And if thou hast received (it), what gloriest thou (or why boastest thou), as (if) thou haddest not received (it)? 
Now ye be full-filled, now ye be made rich; ye reign without us; and I would that ye reign, (so) that also we (could) reign with you. 
And I guess, that God showed us the last apostles, (or For I think, that God hath made us apostles the last, or the lowest), (yea), as those that be sent to the death; for we be made a spectacle to the world, and to angels, and to men. 
We fools for Christ, but ye prudent in Christ; we sick, but ye strong; ye noble, but we unnoble. (We be fools for the Messiah, but ye be wise in the Messiah; we be frail or weak, but ye be strong; ye be noble, but we be ignoble.) 
Till into this hour we hunger, and thirst, and be naked, and be smitten with buffets, and we be unstable, moving from place to place, 
and we travail working with our hands; we be cursed, and we bless; we suffer persecution, and we abide long; 
we be blasphemed, and we beseech; as cleansings of this world we be made the out-casting(s) of all things till yet. 
I write not these things, (so) that I confound you, but (that) I warn you as my most dearworthy sons. 
For why if ye have ten thousand of under-masters in Christ, but not many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I have (en)gendered you by the gospel. (For ye may have ten thousand tutors in the Messiah, but only one father; for in the Messiah Jesus I have begat you, by preaching the Gospel or the Good News.) 
Therefore, brethren, I pray you, be ye followers of me, as I of Christ. (And so brothers, I beseech you, be followers of me, like I am of the Messiah.) 
Therefore I sent to you Timothy, which is my most dearworthy son, and faithful in the Lord, which shall teach you or shall admonish you (in) my ways, that be in Christ Jesus, (or who shall teach you my way of life, that is in the Messiah Jesus); as I teach everywhere in each church. 
As though I should not come to you, so some be blown with pride; 
but I shall come to you soon, if God will (or God willing); and I shall know not the word(s) of them that be blown with pride, but the virtue (or but the power). 
For the realm of God is not in word(s), but in virtue. (For the Kingdom of God is not of words, but of power.) 
What will ye? Shall I come to you in a rod, or in charity, and in a spirit of mildness? (What desire ye? Shall I come to you with a rod, or with love, and in a spirit of meekness and humility?) 
