BARUCH.
Chapter 3.
And now, Lord Almighty, God of Israel, a soul in anguishes, and a spirit annoyed (or harmed), crieth to thee. 
Lord, hear thou, and have mercy, for thou art merciful God; and have thou mercy on us, for we have sinned before thee, 
(for) thou sittest without end, and we shall not perish without end. 
Lord God Almighty, God of Israel, hear thou now the prayer of the dead men of Israel, and of the sons of them, that have sinned before thee, and heard not the voice of their Lord God, and evils be fastened or joined to us. 
Do not thou have mind on (or remember) the wickedness of our fathers, but have thou mind on thine hand, and on thy name, in this time; 
for thou art our Lord God, and, Lord, we shall praise thee. 
For why for this thing thou hast given thy dread in our hearts, (so) that we call (on) thy name to (or for) help, and praise thee in our captivity; for we shall be converted or turned from the wickedness of our fathers, that sinned against thee. 
And lo! we be in our captivity today, whither thou scatteredest us, into shame, and into cursing, and into sin, by or after all the wickedness of our fathers, that went away from thee, thou our Lord God. 
Israel, hear thou the command-ments of life; perceive thou with ears, (so) that thou know prudence. 
Israel, what (or why) is it, that thou art in the land of (thy) enemies? Thou waxedest (or grewest) eld in an alien land, thou art defouled with dead men, 
(and) thou art areckoned with them, that go down into hell (or the grave)? 
Thou hast forsaken the well of wisdom; 
for why if thou haddest gone in the ways of God, soothly thou haddest dwelled in peace on (the) earth. 
Learn thou, where is wisdom, where is prudence, where is virtue, where is understanding, (so) that thou know (al)together, where is long enduring of life, and lifelode, (or livelihood), (and) where is (the) light of (the) eyes, and peace. 
Who found the place thereof, and who entered into the treasures thereof? 
Where be the princes of (the) heathen men, and that be lords over the beasts, that be on (the) earth? 
Which played with the birds of heaven; which treasure silver and gold, in which men trust, and none end there is of the purchasing of them? 
Which make silver, and be busy, and no finding is of their works? 
They be destroyed, and went down to hells, or to hell, (or to the grave); and other men rose (up) in the place of them. 
The young men of them saw light, and dwelled on (the) earth. But they knew not the way of wisdom, 
neither understood the paths thereof; neither the sons of them received it. It was made far from the face of them; 
it is not heard (of) in the land of Canaan, neither it is seen in Teman. 
Also the sons of Hagar, that sought out prudence which is of (or on the) earth, the merchants of (the) earth, and of Teman, and the tale tellers or the fablers, or janglers, and seekers out of prudence, and of understand-ing. But they knew not the way of wisdom, neither had mind on the paths thereof. 
O! Israel, the house of God is full great, and the place of his possession is great; 
it is great and hath none end, high and great without measure. 
(The) Named giants were there; they that were of great stature at the beginning, and knew (or knowing in) battle. 
The Lord chose not these, neither they found the way of wisdom or of discipline; therefore they perished. 
And for they had not wisdom, they perished for their unwisdom. 
Who ascended, or went up, into heaven, and took that wisdom, and brought it down from the clouds? 
Who (hath) passed over the sea, and found it, and brought it more than chosen gold? 
None is or There is not, that may know the way thereof, neither that seeketh out the paths thereof; 
but he that have all things or that knoweth all things, knew it, and found it by his prudence. Which made ready the earth in everlasting time, and filled it with two-footed beasts, and (with) four-footed beasts. 
Which sendeth out (the) light, and it goeth, and called it (again); and it obeyeth to him in trembling. 
Forsooth (the) stars gave light in their keepings, and were glad; those or they were called, and those said, We be present or they said, We come to (thee); and those (or they) shined to him with mirth, that made those or them. 
This is our God, and none other shall be guessed against him. 
This or He found each way of wisdom, and gave it to Jacob, his child (or his servant), and to Israel, his darling or his dearworth(y). 
After these things he was seen in (many) lands, and lived with men. 
