2ND TIMOTHY.
Chapter 4.
I witness before God and Christ Jesus, that shall deem the quick and the dead, by the coming of him, and the kingdom of him, (I testify before God and the Messiah Jesus, who shall judge the living and the dead, by his coming, and his reign,) 
preach the word, be thou busy covenably without rest, (or be thou suitably busy, or be thou busy at every opportunity, without any rest, or without ceasing), reprove thou, beseech thou, blame thou in all patience and doctrine. 
For (the) time shall be, when men shall not suffer or shall not sustain wholesome teaching (or when men shall not allow or permit wholesome teaching), but at their desires they shall gather together to themselves masters (or teachers) itching or pleasing to the ears. 
And truly they shall turn away the(ir) hearing from (the) truth, but to fables they shall turn (or and instead they shall turn their attention to fables). 
But wake thou (or Watch), in all things travail thou, do thou the work of an evangelist, fulfill thy service, or (thine) office, be thou sober (or be resolute). 
For I am sacrificed now, and the time of my departing is nigh (or and the time of my departure is near). 
I have striven a good strife (or I have fought a good fight), I have ended the course, I have kept the faith. 
In the tother time a crown of rightwiseness is kept to me, which the Lord, a just doomsman, shall yield to me in that day; and not only to me, but also to these that love his coming. (In the time to come a crown of righteousness is kept for me, which the Lord, a righteous Judge, shall give to me on that Day; and not only to me, but also to those who await his coming with love.) 
Hie thou to come to me soon. 
For Demas, loving this world, hath forsaken me, and went to Thessalonica, Crescens into Galatia, Titus into Dalmatia; 
Luke alone is with me. Take thou Mark, and bring (him) with thee; for he is profitable to me into service. 
Forsooth I sent Tychicus to Ephesus. 
The cloth which I left at Troas at Carpas (or The cloak which I left with Carpas in Troas), when thou comest, bring with thee, and the books, but most(ly) the parchments. 
Alexander, the treasurer, showed to me much evil; the Lord shall yield to him after his works. 
Whom also thou eschew; for he against-stood full greatly our words. (Whom also thou should shun; for he very strongly stood against our words.) 
In my first defence no man helped me, but all forsook me; be it not areckoned to them. 
But the Lord helped me or Forsooth the Lord stood nigh to me, and comforted me, that the preaching be full-filled by me, and that all folks hear, (and) that I am delivered from the mouth of the lion. (But the Lord stood near to me, or by me, and strengthened me, so that the preaching was fully proclaimed by me, and all the nations heard it, and I was delivered from the lion’s mouth.) 
And the Lord delivered me from all evil work, and shall make me safe into his heavenly kingdom, to whom be glory into worlds of worlds. Amen. (And the Lord shall deliver me from all evil works, and shall bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.) 
Greet well Prisca, and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus. (Give hearty greetings to Prisca, and Aquila, and Onesiphorus’ household or family.) 
Erastus (was) left or dwelt at Corinth, and I left Trophimus sick at Miletum. 
Hie thou to come before winter. Eubulus, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all brethren, greet thee well, (or and all the brothers, send hearty greetings). 
Our Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. The grace of God be with you. Amen. 
