ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 22.
A slow man is (as) stunned in (or as) a stone of clay; and all men shall speak on or of the great despising of him. 
A slow man is (as) stunned of (or as) the dung of oxes or the drit of oxen; and each man that toucheth him, shall shake the hands. 
The shame of a father is of a son unlearned or undisciplined; but a fond or a fool(ish) daughter shall be in decreasing or diminishingof the honour of father and mother. 
A prudent daughter is heritage to her husband; for she that shameth her husband, is in despising or in reproof of (or by) the father. 
A bold woman, that is, shame-less, shameth the father and husband, and shall not be made less than unfaithful men; forsooth she shall not be honoured of (or by) ever either. 
Melody in mourning is uncoven-able (or unsuitable) telling; beatings and teaching, or scourges and doc-trine, (be) in all time with wisdom. 
He that teacheth a fool, (is) as he that glueth together a tilestone, or a sherd, (or shard). He that telleth a word to him that heareth not, is as he that raiseth a man sleeping from a grievous or heavy sleep. 
He that telleth wisdom to a fool, speaketh with a man sleeping; and in the end of the telling he shall say, Who is this? 
(This verse is omitted in the original text.) 
(This verse is omitted in the original text.) 
Weep thou on (or for) a dead man, for why his light or the light of him failed; and weep thou on (or for) a fool, for he failed of wit. Weep thou a little on (or for) a dead man, for he hath rested. Forsooth the life of a full wicked man is full wicked, more than the death of a fool. 
The mourning of (or for) a dead man is seven days; but the mourning of (or for) a fool and of (or for) a wick-ed man is all the days of their life. 
Speak thou not much with a fool, and go thou not with an unwise man. Keep thee from him, (so) that thou have not dis-ease or grief; and thou shalt not be defouled in the sin of him. Bow thou away from him, and thou shalt find rest; and be thou not annoyed (or harmed) by his folly. 
What shall be made heavier than lead? and what other name than a fool is to it or to him? 
It is lighter (or easier) to bear gravel, and salt, and a gobbet of iron, than a man unprudent or an impru-dent man, and a fool, and unfaithful. 
As an heap or (a) joining of trees, bound together in the foundament of the building, shall not be unbound or unloosed, so and an heart confirmed in the thought of counsel. 
The thought of a wise man shall not be made shrewd (or depraved) in any time, neither dreaded. 
As chaffs in high places, and sand without meddling of him or and mor-tar without due cost, set against the face of the wind, shall not dwell; so and a dreadful heart in the thought or in the thinking of a fool against-standeth not against the fierceness of dread. As adorning, either pargeting, full of gravel in a clear wall, so and a fearedful heart in the thought of a fool or the trembling heart in the thinking of a fool shall not dread in any time; so and he that dwelleth evermore in the behests (or the commands) of God. 
He that pricketh the eye, shall lead out tears; and he that pricketh the heart, bringeth forth wit. 
He that casteth or throwing a stone to (or at) birds, shall cast down those or them; so and he that doeth wrong to a friend, departeth or loseth friendship. 
Though thou bringest forth a sword to a friend, despair thou not; for there is going again to the friend. 
If he openeth a sorrowful mouth, dread thou not; for why there is according, except (for) despising, and shame, and pride, and showing or opening of private(s), (or of secrets), and a treacherous wound; in all these things a friend shall fly or flee away. 
Have thou faith with a friend in his poverty, (so) that thou be glad also in his goods. In the time of his tribulations, dwell thou or abide still faithful to him, (so) that also thou be even-heir in the heritage of him. 
Heat and smoke of fire is made high before the fire of a chimney; so and cursings, and despisings, and menaces, or curses, and wrongs, and threats, come before blood. 
I shall not be ashamed for to greet or to salute a friend, and I shall not hide me from his face; 
(even) though or and if evils come to me by him, I shall suffer. Each man that shall hear, shall keep warily himself from him. 
Who shall give keeping to (or keep watch over) my mouth, and a certain sealing on my lips, (so) that I fall not by those, and that my tongue lose (or destroy) not me? Who shall give to my mouth ward, and upon my lips a certain mark, that I fall not from them, and my tongue lose me? 
