LUKE.
Chapter 22.
And the holiday or the holy day of therf loaves, that is said pask, nighed. (And the holiday, or the holy day, of Unleavened Bread, that is called Passover, approached.) 
And the princes of (the) priests, and the scribes sought, how they should slay Jesus, but they dreaded the people. (And the high priests, and the scribes, sought how they could kill Jesus, but they feared the people.) 
And Satan entered into Judas, that was called Iscariot, one of the twelve. 
And he went, and spake with the princes of (the) priests, (or And he went, and spoke with the high priests), and with the magistrates, how he should betray him to them. 
And they joyed, and made (a) covenant to give him money. (And they rejoiced, and made a contract to give him money.) 
And he promised, and he sought opportunity, to betray him, without the people. 
But the days of therf loaves came, in which it was need(ful), that the sacrifice of pask were slain. (And the days of Unleavened Bread came, in which it was needed, that the Passover sacrifice was killed.) 
And he sent Peter and John, and said, Go ye, and make ye ready to us the pask, that we eat. (And he sent off Peter and John, saying, Go, and prepare the Passover for us, so that we can eat it.) 
And they said, Where wilt thou, that we make (it) ready? (And they said, Where do you want us to prepare it?) 
And he said to them, Lo! when ye shall enter into the city, a man bearing a vessel of water shall meet you; (pur)sue ye him into the house (or follow him into the house), into which he entereth. 
And ye shall say to the husbandman of the house, The master saith to thee, Where is a chamber, where I shall eat the pask with my disciples? (And ye shall say to the head of the house, The Teacher saith to thee, Where is the room, where I shall eat the Passover with my disciples?) 
And he shall show to you a great supping place strewed, and there make ye (it) ready (or and prepare it there). 
And (so) they went, and found (it) as he said to them, and they made ready the pask (or and they prepared the Passover). 
And when the hour was come, he sat at the meat (or he sat down for the meal), and the twelve apostles with him. 
And he said to them, With desire I have desired to eat with you this pask, before that I suffer; (And he said to them, With great desire I have wanted to eat this Passover with you, before that I suffer;) 
for I say to you, that from this time I shall not eat it, till it be fulfilled in the realm of God. (for I tell you, that from this time on I shall not eat it, until it is fulfilled in the Kingdom of God.) 
And when he had taken the cup, he did graces, or he did thankings, and said, Take ye, and part ye among you; (And when he had taken the cup, he gave thanks, and said, Take this, and share it among you;) 
for I say to you, that I shall not drink of the kind or of the generation of this vine, till the realm of God come (or until the Kingdom of God shall come). 
And when he had taken bread, he did thankings, or he did graces, (or he gave thanks), and brake (it), and gave (it) to them, and said, This is my body, that shall be given for you; do ye this thing in mind of me or into my commemoration. 
He took also the cup or the chalice, after that he had supped, and said, This cup is the new testament in my blood, that shall be shed for you, (or This cup is the new covenant sealed with my blood, that shall be shed for you). 
Nevertheless lo! the hand of him that betrayeth me, is with me at the table. 
And man’s Son goeth, as it is determined; nevertheless woe to that man, by whom he shall be betrayed. 
And they began to seek among themselves, who it was of them, that was to do this thing. 
And strife was made among them, which of them should be seen to be (the) greatest. 
But he said to them, Kings of heathen men be lords of them (or Kings of the Gentiles be their lords), and they that have power on them be called good doers, 
but ye (be) not so (or but it be not so with you); but he that is the greatest among you, be made as a younger or as the younger, and he that is a before-goer, as a servant. 
For who is greater, he that sitteth at the meat, or he that ministereth? whether not he that sitteth at the meat? And I am in the middle or in the midst of you, as he that ministereth. (For who is greater, he who sitteth at the meal, or he who serveth it? whether not he who sitteth at the meal? But I am in the midst of you, like he who serveth.) 
And ye it be, that have dwelled with me in my temptations; (And ye it be, who have remained with me during my tests and trials;) 
and I assign to you, as my Father hath assigned to me, a realm (or a Kingdom). and I dispose to you, as my Father hath disposed to me, a realm. 
that ye eat and drink on my board in my realm, and sit on thrones, and deem the twelve kindreds of Israel. (so that ye will eat and drink at my table in my Kingdom, and sit on thrones, and judge the twelve tribes of Israel.) 
And the Lord said to Simon, Simon, lo! Satan hath asked (for) you, that he should riddle you as wheat (or so that he could sift you like wheat); 
but I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not; and thou sometime converted or and thou converted sometime, confirm thy brethren, (or and after thou hast returned to thy right mind, that thou strengthen thy brothers). 
Which said to him, Lord, I am ready to go into prison and into death with thee. +Which said to him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, into prison and into death. 
And he said, I say to thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow today, till thou thrice forsake that thou knowest me. 
And he said to them, When I sent you without satchel, and scrip, and shoes, whether anything failed to you? And they said, Nothing. 
Therefore he said to them, But now he that hath a satchel, take also a scrip; and he that hath none, sell his coat, and buy a sword. 
For I say to you, that yet it behooveth that thing that is written to be fulfilled in me, And he is areckoned with wicked men; for those things that be of me have an end. 
And they said, Lord, lo! two swords here. And he said to them, It is enough. 
And he went out, and went after the custom into the hill of Olives or the hill of Olivet; and the disciples (pur)sued him. (And he went out, and as was his custom, went over to the Mount of Olives, and the disciples followed him.) 
And when he came to the place, he said to them, Pray ye, lest ye enter into temptation, (or Pray ye, lest ye enter into, or be put to, the test). 
And he was taken away from them, as much as is a stone’s cast (or as much as a stone’s throw); and he kneeled, and prayed, 
and said, Father, if thou wilt, do away this cup from me; nevertheless not my will be done, but thine, or nevertheless not my will, but thine be done. 
And an angel appeared to him from heaven, and comforted him. 
And he was made in agony or in anguish, and prayed the longer or (and) prayed longer; and his sweat was made as drops of blood running down into the earth (or and his sweat was made like drops of blood running down onto the ground). 
And when he was risen from prayer, and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for heaviness. 
And he said to them, What, sleep ye? Rise ye, and pray ye, that ye enter not into temptation. (And he said to them, Why do ye sleep? Rise, and pray, so that ye do not enter into, or be put to, the test.) 
Yet while he spake, lo! a company, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them; and he came nigh to Jesus, to kiss him. 
And Jesus said to him, Judas, betrayest thou man’s Son with a kiss? 
And they that were about him, and saw that that was to come, said to him, Lord, whether we smite (them) with (our) sword(s)? (or Lord, shall we strike them with the swords?) 
And one of them smote the servant of the prince of (the) priests (or And one of them struck the servant of the High Priest), and cut off his right ear. 
But Jesus answered, and said, Suffer ye till hither (or Allow this to be). And when he had touched his ear, he healed him. 
And Jesus said to them, that came to him, the princes of (the) priests, and (the) magistrates or the masters of the temple, and (the) elder men, As to a thief ye have gone out with swords and staves? (And Jesus said to those, who came to take hold of him, the high priests, and the magistrates, or the officials, of the Temple, and the elders, You have gone out with swords and bats, or clubs, like after a thief?) 
When I was each day with you in the temple, ye stretched not out (your) hands into me; but this is your hour, and the power of darknesses. 
And they took him, and led (him) to the house of the prince of (the) priests; and Peter (pur)sued him afar. (And they took hold of him, and then led him to the High Priest’s house; and Peter followed him from afar.) 
And when a fire was kindled in the middle of the great house, and they sat about, Peter was in the middle of them. (And when a fire was kindled in the middle of the courtyard, they sat around it, and Peter was in their midst.) 
Whom when a damsel, or a handmaid, or a handmaiden, had seen sitting at the light, and had beheld him, she said, And this (man) was with him (or Yea, he was with him). 
And he denied him (or But he denied it), and said, Woman, I know him not. 
And after a little another man saw him, and said, And thou art (one) of them. But Peter said, A! man, I am not. 
And when a space was made as of one hour, another affirmed, and said, Truly this (man) was with him; for also he is of Galilee, (or Surely he was with him; for he is also from Galilee). 
And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And anon yet while he spake, the cock crew, (or And at once while he was still speaking, the cock crowed). 
And the Lord turned again or And the Lord turned, and beheld Peter; and Peter had mind of the word(s) of Jesus, as he had said, (or and Peter remembered Jesus’ words, that he had said), Before that the cock crow, thrice thou shalt deny me. 
And Peter went out, and wept bitterly. 
And the men that held him scorned him, and smote him (or and struck him). 
And they blindfolded him, and smote his face, and asked him, and said, Declare, thou Christ, to us, who is he that smote thee? or Prophesy thou, who is it that smote thee?(or Prophesy thou! who is it that struck thee?) 
Also they blaspheming said against him many other things. Also they blaspheming said many other things against him. 
And as the day was come, the elder men of the people, and the princes of (the) priests, and the scribes came together, (or the elders of the people, and the high priests, and the scribes came together), and led him into their council, and said, 
If thou art Christ, say to us. And he said to them, If I say to you, ye will not believe to me; (If thou art the Messiah, tell us. And he said to them, If I tell you, ye will not believe me;) 
and if I ask (you), ye will not answer to me, neither ye will deliver meor neither ye shall (give me) leave. (and if I ask you, ye will not answer me, nor will ye let me go.) 
But after this time man’s Son shall be sitting on the right half of the virtue of God. (But after this time man’s Son shall be sitting at the right hand, or on the right side, of the power of God.) 
Therefore all said, Then art thou the Son of God? And he said, Ye say that I am. 
And they said, What yet desire we witnessing? for we ourselves have heard of his mouth. (And they said, Why do we need any more testimony? for we ourselves have heard it from his own mouth.) 
