ROMANS.
Chapter 6.
Therefore what shall we say? Shall we dwell in sin, (so) that grace be plenteous? 
God forbid. For how shall we that be dead to sin, live yet therein? 
Whether, brethren, ye know not, that whichever we be baptized in Christ Jesus, we be baptized in his death? (Brothers, do ye not know, that whoever is baptized into union with the Messiah Jesus, is baptized into his death?) 
For we be together buried with him by baptism into death; that as Christ arose from death by the glory of the Father, or that as Christ rose from (the) dead by (the) glory of the father, (or that as the Messiah rose from the dead by the glory of the Father), so walk we in a newness of life. 
For if we planted together be made to the likeness of his death, also we shall be of the likeness of his rising again (or we shall also be made to the likeness of his resurrection); 
witting this thing (or knowing this), that our old man is crucified together (with him), (so) that the body of sin be destroyed, (so) that we serve no more to sin. 
For he that is dead to sin, is justified from sin. 
And if we be dead with Christ (or And if we have died with the Messiah), we believe that also we shall live together with him; 
witting that Christ, rising again from death or rising again from (the) dead, now dieth not, death shall no more have lordship on him. (knowing that the Messiah, rising again from the dead, now dieth not, death shall no more have lordship over him.) 
For that he was dead to sin, he was dead once; but that he liveth, he liveth to God. 
So ye deem yourselves to be dead to sin, but living to God in Jesus Christ our Lord. 
Therefore reign not sin in your deadly body, that ye obey to his covetings. (And so do not let sin reign in your mortal body, so that ye obey its desires.) 
Neither give ye your members (as) armours, (or as arms, or as instruments), of wickedness to sin, but give ye yourselves to God, as they that live of dead men, and your members (as) armours, (or as arms, or as instruments), of rightwiseness to God. 
For sin shall not have lordship over you; for ye be not under the law, but under grace. 
What therefore? Shall we do sin, for we be not under the law, but under grace? God forbid. 
Know ye not, that to whom ye give yourselves (as) servants to obey to, ye be (the) servants of that thing, to which ye have obeyed, either of sin to death, either of obedience to rightwiseness? 
But I thank God, that (once) ye were servants of sin; but ye have obeyed of heart into that form of teaching, in which ye be betaken. (But I thank God, that before ye were servants of sin; but now ye have obeyed with your heart that form of teaching, which was delivered unto you, or unto which ye be delivered.) 
And ye delivered from sin, be made (the) servants of rightwiseness. 
I say that thing that is of man, for the unsteadfastness, or the infirmity, or unstableness, of your flesh, (or for the frailty, or the weakness, of your flesh). But as ye have given your members to serve to uncleanness, and to wickedness into wickedness, so now give ye your members to serve to rightwiseness into holiness. 
For when ye were servants of sin, ye were free of rightwiseness. (For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from the control of righteousness.) 
Therefore what fruit had ye then in those things, in which ye shame now? For the end of them is death. (And so what fruit had ye then in those things, of which ye now be ashamed? For their end is death.) 
But now ye delivered from sin, and made servants to God, have your fruit into holiness, and the end everlasting life (or and the end is eternal life). 
For the wages of sin is death; the grace of God is everlasting life in Christ Jesus our Lord. (For the wages of sin (be) death; but the gift of God (is) eternal life in the Messiah Jesus.) 
