DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 2.
And when the days of Pentecost were ful filled, all the disciples were together in the same place. 
And suddenly there was made a sound from heaven (or from the heavens), as of a great wind coming, and it filled all the house where they sat. 
And diverse tongues as (flames of) fire appeared to them or And tongues diversely parted as (flames of) fire appeared to them, and it sat on each of them. 
And all were filled with the Holy Ghost, and they began to speak in diverse languages or with diverse tongues, as the Holy Ghost gave to them to speak. (And all were filled with the Holy Spirit, and they began to speak in different languages, which the Holy Spirit made them able to speak.) 
And there were in Jerusalem dwelling Jews (or And there were Jews living in Jerusalem), religious men, of each nation that is under heaven. 
And when this voice was made, the multitude came together, and were astonied, (or were astonished), or was confounded, in thought, (or And when this sound was made, the multitude came together, and were bewildered in their understanding), for each man heard them speaking in his own language +or in his own tongue. 
And all were astonied (or astonished), and wondered, and said together, Whether not all these that speak be men of Galilee or Whether not all these that speak be Galileans, 
and how heard we or have we heard each man our (own) language (or and how have each of us heard our own language) in which we be born? 
Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and they that dwell at or in Mesopotamia, Judea, and Cappadocia, Pontus, and Asia, 
Phrygia, and Pamphylia, Egypt, and the parts of Libya, that is about Cyrene, and comelings (or and newcomers), Romans, and Jews, and proselytes, 
men of Crete, and of Arabia, we have heard them speaking in our (own) languages or in our (own) tongues the great things of God. 
And all were astonied, and wondered, saying together, What will this thing be? (And all were astonished, and wondered, and they said to each other, What meaneth this thing?) 
And others scorned, and said, For these men be full of must. (But others scorned them, and said, These men be full of wine.) 
But Peter stood with the eleven, and raised up his voice, and spake to them, Ye Jews, and all that dwell at Jerusalem (or and all who live in Jerusalem), be this known to you, and with ears perceive ye my words. 
For not as ye ween or not as ye guess, these be drunken, when it is the third hour of the day; (For it is not as ye think, that these be drunk, when it is but nine o’clock in the morning;) 
but this it is, that was said by the prophet Joel, 
And it shall be in the last days, the Lord saith, I shall pour out my Spirit on each flesh or I shall pour out my Spirit on all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your elders shall dream swevens (or your old men shall dream dreams). 
And on my servants and on mine handmaidens in those days I shall pour out (a portion) of my Spirit, and they shall prophesy. 
And I shall give great wonders in (the) heaven(s) above, and signs in (or on the) earth beneath, blood, and fire, and heat or vapour of smoke. 
The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before that the great and the open day of the Lord shall come. 
And it shall be, each man whichever shall call to help the name of the Lord or each man whoever shall in-call the name of the Lord, shall be safe (or shall be saved). 
Ye men of Israel, hear ye these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man proved of God before you by virtues, and wonders, and tokens, which God did by him in the middle of you, as ye know, (Israelites, listen to these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man of God approved before you by works of power, or miracles, and wonders, and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye know,) 
ye tormented, and killed him by the hands of wicked men, by counsel determined and betaken by the fore-knowing or by the prescience of God. (ye tormented, and killed him by the hands of wicked men, delivered up by the predetermined plan and in the foreknowledge of God.) 
Whom God raised, when the sorrows of hell were unbound, by that that it was impossible that he were holden of it (or because it was impossible that he would be held by it). 
For David saith of him, I saw afar the Lord before me (for)evermore, for he is on my right half, that I be not moved. (For David said of him, I saw the Lord always before me, for he is on my right side, or at my right hand, so that I shall not be moved.) 
For this thing mine heart joyed, and my tongue made full out joy or gladded, and moreover my flesh shall rest in hope. 
For thou shalt not leave my soul in hell, neither thou shalt give thine Holy (One) to see corruption. 
Thou hast made known to me the ways of life, thou shalt full-fill me with mirth with thy face (or thou shalt fill me full of joy by thy presence). 
Brethren, be it leaveful boldly to say to you of the patriarch David, for he is dead and buried, and his sepulchre is among us into this day. (Brothers, may it be lawful for me to boldly say this to you about the patriarch David, that he is dead and buried, and his tomb is here among us unto this day.) 
Therefore when he was a prophet, and knew, that with a great oath God had sworn to him, that of the fruit of his loins should one sit on his seat (or that a man from the fruit of his loins should sit on his throne), 
he seeing afar spake of the resurrection of Christ (or he seeing far ahead spoke of the resurrection of the Messiah), for neither he was left in hell, neither his flesh saw corruption. 
God raised this Jesus, to whom we all be witnesses. 
Therefore he was enhanced by the right hand of God, and through the promise of the Holy Ghost that he took of the Father, he shedded out this Spirit, that ye see and hear. (And so he was exalted, or raised up, by the right hand of God, and through the promise of the Holy Spirit that he received from the Father, he poured out this Spirit, that ye now see and hear.) 
For David ascended not into heaven; but he saith, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou on my right half, (or Sit on my right side, or at my right hand), 
till I put thine enemies the stool of thy feet. (until I make thine enemies thy footstool.) 
Therefore most certainly know all the house of Israel, that God made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus, whom ye crucified. (And so let all the house of Israel most certainly know, that God made this Jesus, whom ye crucified, both Lord and Messiah.) 
When they heard these things, they were compuncted in heart; and they said to Peter and to(the) other apostles, Brethren (or Brothers), what shall we do? 
And Peter said to them, Do ye penance, and each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, into remission of your sins; and ye shall take the gift of the Holy Ghost. (And Peter said to them, Repent, and each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins; and then ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.) 
For the promise is to you, and to your sons, and to all that be far (off), whichever our Lord God hath called. Forsooth repromission is to you, and to your sons, and to all that be far, whomever the Lord our God hath called to (him). 
Also with other words full many he witnessed to them, and admonished them, and said, Be ye saved from this shrewd or from this wicked generation. (And with a great many other words he testified to them, and admonished them, and said, Save yourselves from this depraved generation.) 
Then they that received his word were baptized, and in (or on) that day souls were increased, about three thousand; 
and they were lasting stably in the teaching of the apostles, and in (the) communing of the breaking of bread, and in prayers. 
And dread was made to each man. And many wonders and signs were done by the apostles in Jerusalem, and great dread was in all. (And there was fearful reverence in each man. And many wonders and miracles were done by the apostles in Jerusalem, and great and fearful reverence was in all.) 
And all that believed were together, and had all things (in) common. 
They sold (their) possessions and chattel, or substances, or goods, and parted those things to all men, as it was need(ful) to each. (They sold their possessions and goods, and divided those things to everyone, as it was needed by each person.) 
And each day they dwelled stably with one will in the temple, and brake bread about houses (or and broke bread in their houses), and took meat (or meals) with full out joy or with gladness and simpleness of heart, 
and praised together God, and had grace to (or favour with) all the folk or all the people. And the Lord increased them that were made safe, each day into the same thing (or And the Lord added to those who were saved, each and every day). 
