LUKE.
Chapter 9.
And when the twelve apostles were called together, Jesus gave to them virtue and power on all devils, and that they should heal sicknesses. (And when the twelve apostles were called together, Jesus gave them authority and power over all demons, and so that they could heal sicknesses.) 
And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal sick men. 
And he said to them, Nothing take ye in the way (or Take nothing on or for the way), neither a staff or a rod, nor scrip, neither bread, nor money, and neither have ye two coats. 
And into whatever house ye enter, dwell ye there (or remain there), and go ye not out from thence. 
And whoever receive not you or And whoever shall not receive you, go ye out of that city, and shake ye off the powder of your feet into witnessing on them (or and shake off the dust from your feet as a testimony against them). 
And they went forth, and went about by castles (or and went through the villages), preaching or evangelizing and healing everywhere. 
And Herod the tetrarch or (the) prince of the fourth part, heard (of) all the things that were done of him, and he doubted, for that it was said of some men, that John was risen from death or for (that) John had risen from (the) dead; (And Herod, the tetrarch, or the prince of a quarter of the kingdom, heard of all of the things that were done by him, and he wondered about it, for it was said by some people, that John had risen from the dead;) 
and of some men, that Elias had appeared; but of others, that one of the old prophets was risen. (and by some, that Elijah had appeared; but by others, that one of the prophets of old had arisen.) 
And Herod said, I have beheaded John; and who is this, of whom I hear such things? And he sought to see him. 
And the apostles turned again, and told to him all (the) things that they had done, (or And the apostles returned, and told him about everything that they had done). And he took them, and went beside into a desert place, that is called Bethsaida. 
And when the people knew this, they followed him. And he received them, and spake to them of the kingdom of God (or and spoke to them about the Kingdom of God); and he healed them that had need of (a) cure. 
And the day began to bow down, and the twelve came, and said to him, Leave the people, that they go, and turn into the castles and towns, that be about, that they find meat, for we be here in a desert place. (And the day began to bow down, and the Twelve came, and said to him, Let the people go, or Send them away, so that they can go, and return to the villages and towns, that be about, so that they can find some food, for we be here in this deserted place.) 
And he said to them, Give ye to them (something) to eat. And they said, There be not to us more than five loaves and two fishes, but peradventure that we go, and buy meats to all this people, or but peradventure we go, and buy meats for all the company, (or but perhaps we can go, and buy some food for all of these people). 
And the men were almost five thousand. And he said to his disciples, Make ye them to sit to (the) meat by companies, a fifty together, (or And he said to his disciples, Make them to sit down for the meal in groups, fifty together). 
And they did so, and they made all men sit to the meat. (And they did so, and they made everyone to sit down for the meal.) 
And when he had taken the five loaves and two fishes, he beheld into heaven, and blessed them, and brake (them), and dealed (them out) to his disciples, (so) that they should set or put(them) forth before the companies. 
And all men ate, and were full-filled or and were filled; and that that (was) left to them of broken meats was taken up, twelve coffins. (And everyone ate, and were filled; and the pieces of food which were left by them were gathered up, yea, twelve baskets full.) 
And it was done, when he was alone praying, his disciples were with him, and he asked them, and said, Whom say the people that I am? 
And they answered, and said, John (the) Baptist, others say Elias, and others sayor but others say, one prophet of the former is risen. (And they answered, and said, John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others say, one of the former prophets, or one of the first prophets, is risen.) 
And he said to them, But whom say ye that I am? Simon Peter answered, and said, The Christ of God, (or Simon Peter answered, and said, God’s Messiah). 
And he blaming them (or And he rebuking them), commanded them that they should say (that) to no man, +And he blaming them commanded them that they should say to no man these things, 
and said these things, For it behooveth man’s Son to suffer many things, and to be reproved of the elder men, and of the princes of (the) priests, and of the scribes, (or and to be rejected by the elders, and by the high priests, and by the scribes), and to be slain, and the third day to rise again. 
And he said to all men, If any man will come after me, deny he himself, and take he his cross every day, and (pur)sue he me (or and follow me). 
For he that will make his life safe shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for me, shall make it safe. 
And what profiteth it to a man, if he win all the world, and lose himself, and do impairing of himself, or and do impairing to himself, (or and do harm to himself). 
For whoso shameth me and my words, man’s Son shall shame him, when he cometh in his majesty, and of the Father’s, and of the holy angels. (For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and my words, man’s Son shall be ashamed of him, when he cometh in his majesty, or in his glory, and in the glory of the Father, and of the holy angels.) 
And I say to you, verily there be some standing here, which shall not taste death, till they see the realm of God. (Truly I say to you, or I tell you the truth, there be some standing here, who shall not taste death, until they see the Kingdom of God.) 
And it was done after these words almost eight days, and he took Peter and James and John, and he ascended into an hill, to pray, (or and he went up onto a hill, to pray). 
And while he prayed, the likeness of his face was changed, and his clothing was white shining. 
And lo! two men spake with him, and Moses and Elias (And behold! two men spoke with him, yea, Moses and Elijah) 
were seen in (their) majesty; and they said (of) his going out, which he should fulfill in Jerusalem. (were seen in their glory; and they spoke of his death, yea, of his destiny, which he would fulfill in Jerusalem.) 
And Peter, and they that were with him, were heavy of sleep, or were grieved, or heavied, with sleep, and they waking saw his majesty, and the two men that stood with him, (or but awakening they saw his glory, and the two men who stood with him). 
And it was done, when they departed from him, Peter said to Jesus, Commander, it is good that we be here, and make we here three tabernacles, one to thee, and one to Moses, and one to Elias. And he knew not what he should say. (And it was done, when they had left him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here, and we shall make here three tents, or three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah. And he did not know what he should say.) 
But while he spake these things, a cloud was made, and overshadowed them; and they dreaded (or and they feared), when they entered into the cloud. 
And a voice was made out of the cloud, and said, This is my dearworthy Son, hear ye him (or listen to him). 
And while the voice was made, Jesus was found alone. And they were still, and to no man said in those days any of those things, that they had seen, or And they held (their) peace, and said to no man in those days aught of those things that they had seen. (And after the voice was heard, Jesus was there alone. And they were silent, and did not tell anyone in those days, about anything that they had seen.) 
But it was done in the day (pur)suing, when they came down of the hill, much people met them. (But it was done on the following day, when they came down from the hill, that many people met them.) 
And lo! a man of the company cried, and said, Master, I beseech thee, behold my son, for I have no more; (And behold! a man among the people cried, and said, Teacher, I beseech thee, look at my son, for I have no other child;) 
and lo! a spirit taketh him, and suddenly he crieth, and hurtleth him down, and draweth him with foam or with froth, and scarcely he goeth away (before) drawing him all to pieces. 
And I prayed thy disciples, that they should cast him out, and they might not. (And I beseeched thy disciples, that they should throw out the spirit, but they could not do it.) 
And Jesus answered and said to them, A! unfaithful generation and wayward (or O unfaithful and wayward generation!), how long shall I be with you, and suffer you? bring hither thy son. 
And when he came nigh, the devil hurtled him down, and wrenched him. And Jesus blamed the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and yielded him (back) to his father, (or And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, yea, the demon, and healed the child, and gave him back to his father). 
And all men wondered greatly in the greatness of God. And when all men wondered in all (the) things that he did, he said to his disciples, (And everyone wondered greatly at the greatness of God. And when everyone wondered at all the things that he did, he said to his disciples,) 
Put ye these words in your hearts, for it is to come, that man’s Son be betrayed into the hands of men. 
And they knew not this word, and it was hid before them, that they feeled it not; and they dreaded to ask him of this word. (But they did not know what this meant, and it was hidden to them, so that they could not perceive or understand it; and they feared to ask him about these words.) 
But a thought entered into them, who of them should be (the) greatest. 
And Jesus, seeing the thoughts of the heart(s) of them, (or And Jesus, knowing the thoughts in their hearts), took a child, and setted him beside him; 
and said to them, Whoever receiveth this child in my name, receiveth me; and whoever receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me; for he that is (the) least among you all, is the greatest. 
And John answered and said, Commander, we saw a man casting out fiends in thy name, and we have forbidden him, for he (pur)sueth not thee with us. (And John said, Master, we saw a man throwing out devils and demons in thy name, and we have forbidden him, for he followeth not thee with us.) 
And Jesus said to him, Do not ye forbid (him), for he that is not against us, is for us. 
And it was done, when the days of his taking up were fulfilled (or when it would soon be the day that he would be taken up into heaven), he set fast his face, to go to Jerusalem, 
and sent messengers before his sight. And they went, and entered into a city of Samaritans, to make ready to him (or to prepare it for him). 
And they received not him, for the face of him was going into Jerusalem. 
And when James and John, his disciples, saw (that), they said, Lord, wilt thou that we say, that fire come down from heaven, and waste them, as Elias did? (And when James and John, his disciples, saw that, they said, Lord, desirest thou that we command, that fire come down from heaven, and destroy them, like Elijah did?) 
And he turned, and blamed them (or and rebuked them), and said, Ye know not, whose spirits ye be; 
for man’s Son came not to lose men’s souls, but to save them. And they went into another castle. (for man’s Son came not to destroy men’s souls, but to savethem. And so they went to another village.) 
And it was done, when they walked in the way, a man said to him, I shall (pur)sue thee, whither ever thou shalt go. (And it was done, when they walked on the way, a man said to him, I shall follow thee, wherever thou shalt go.) 
And Jesus said to him, Foxes have dens or ditches, and (the) birds of the air have nests, but man’s Son hath not where he shall rest his head. 
And he said to another, (Pur)Sue thou me. And he said, Lord, suffer me first to go, and bury my father. (And he said to another, Follow me. And he said, Lord, first allow me to go, and bury my father.) 
And Jesus said to him, Suffer that dead men bury their dead men; but go thou, and tell (everyone about) the kingdom of God. (And Jesus said to him, Allow the dead to bury their dead; but thou go, and tell everyone about the Kingdom of God.) 
And another said, Lord, I shall (pur)sue thee, but first suffer me to leave (in peace) all things that be at home or but first suffer me to tell to them that be at home. (And another said, Lord, I shall follow thee, but first allow me to say good-bye to all who be at home.) 
And Jesus said to him, No man that putteth his hand to the plough, and beholding backward, is able to the kingdom of God. (And Jesus said to him, No man who putteth his hand to the plow, and looking backward, is fit for the Kingdom of God.) 
