LUKE.
Chapter 23.
And all the multitude of them arose, and led him to Pilate. 
And they began to accuse him, and said, We have found this (man) turning upside-down our folk, and forbidding tribute to be given to the emperor, and saying that himself is Christ a king. Forsooth they began to accuse him, saying, We have found this man turning upside-down our folk, and forbidding tribute to be given to Caesar, and saying himself to be Christ (a) king.(And they began to accuse him, and said, We have found this man turning our nation upside-down, subverting our people, and forbidding taxes to be paid to Caesar, and saying that he is the Messiah, a king.) 
And Pilate asked him, and said, Art thou king of Jews? (or Art thou the King of the Jews?) And he answered, and said, Thou sayest. 
And Pilate said to the princes of (the) priests, and to the people, I find nothing of cause (worthy of death) in this man. (And Pilate said to the high priests, and to the people, I find no case against this man, or I see no reason to condemn this man.) 
And they waxed stronger (or And they grew stronger and more insistent), and said, He moveth the people, teaching through all Judea, beginning from Galilee till hither. 
And Pilate hearing Galilee asked, if he were a man of Galilee. 
And when he knew that he was of the power of Herod, he sent him to Herod; which was at Jerusalem in those days or and he was at Jerusalem in those days. 
And when Herod saw Jesus, he joyed full much; for (a) long time he coveted to see him, for he heard many things of him, and hoped to see some token or some miracle done of him. (And when Herod saw Jesus, he greatly rejoiced; for he had desired to see him for a long time, because he had heard many things about him, and hoped to see some sign, or some miracle, done by him.) 
And he asked him in many words; and he answered nothing to him. 
And the princes of (the) priests (or And the high priests), and the scribes stood, steadfastly accusing him. 
But Herod with his host despised him, and scorned him, and clothed him with a white cloth, and sent him again to Pilate. (But Herod and his soldiers mocked him, and scorned him, and clothed him with a white cloak, and then sent him back to Pilate.) 
And Herod and Pilate were made friends from that day or And Herod and Pilate were made friends in that day; for before they were enemies together (or but before this day they were enemies). 
And Pilate called together the princes of (the) priests, and the magistrates of the people, (And Pilate called together the high priests, and the magistrates of the people,) 
and said to them, Ye have brought to me this man, as turning away the people, and lo! I asking before you find no cause (worthy of death) in this man, of these things, in which ye accuse him; (and said to them, Ye have brought me this man, for subverting the people, and behold! I asking before you find no case against this man, or I see no reason to condemn this man, regarding those things, of which ye accuse him;) 
neither (did) Herod, for he hath sent him again to us, and lo! nothing worthy of death is done to him. (nor did Herod, for he hath sent him back to us, and behold! nothing worthy of death hath been done by him.) 
And therefore I shall amend him, and deliver him. +Therefore I shall leave him amended, or deliver him chastised.(And so I shall chastise him, and then let him go.) 
But he must needs deliver to them one by the feast day. Forsooth he had need to deliver to them one by the feast day.(But he had to release one prisoner to them on the Feast Day, or at the Festival.) 
And all the people cried together, and said, Do him away, and deliver to us Barabbas; (And all the people cried together, and shouted, Do him away, and release Barabbas to us, or and give us Barabbas;) 
which was sent into prison for disturbing, or some dissention, or some sedition, made in the city, and for manslaying. (who was sent into prison for sedition made in the city, and for murder.) 
And again Pilate spake to them, and would deliver Jesus. Forsooth again Pilate spake to them, willing to deliver Jesus.(And again Pilate spoke to them, and wanted to release Jesus.) 
And they cried out, and said, Crucify, crucify him. 
And the third time he said to them, For what evil hath he done? I find no cause (worthy) of death in him; therefore I shall chastise him, and I shall deliver him, (or I find no case, or crime, worthy of death against him; and so I shall chastise him, and then I shall let (him) go, or and then I shall release (him)). 
And they continued with great voices asking or And they continued asking with great voices, that he should be crucified; and the voices of them waxed strong. (And they continued shouting with loud voices, saying that he should be crucified; and their voices grew stronger and more insistent.) 
And (then) Pilate deemed their asking to be done. 
And he delivered to them him, that for manslaying (or for murder) and sedition was sent into prison, (for) whom they (had) asked; but he betook Jesus to their will (or but he delivered Jesus unto their will). 
And when they led him (away), they took a man, Simon of Cyrene, coming from the town, and they laid on him the cross to bear after Jesus. 
And there (pur)sued him much people (or And many people followed him), and women that bewailed, and bemourned him. 
And Jesus turned to them, and said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not ye weep on me, but weep ye on yourselves and on your sons, (or Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but rather weep for yourselves and for your children). 
For lo! days shall come, in which it shall be said, Blessed be barren women, and the wombs that have not born children, and the teats that have not given suck (or and the breasts that have not been suckled). 
Then they shall begin to say to (the) mountains, Fall ye down on us, and to (the) small hills, Cover ye us. 
For if in a green tree they do these things or For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in a dry (one)? (For if they do these things when the tree is green, what shall they do when it is dry?) 
Also other two wicked men were led (away) with him, to be slain. (And two other wicked men were led away to be killed, or executed, with him.) 
And when they came into a place, that is called of Calvary, +or And after that they came to a place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the thieves, one on the right half, and the other on the left half, (or one on his right side, and the other on his left side). 
But Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And they parted his clothes, and cast lots (for them), (or And they divided up his clothes, and threw dice for them). 
And the people stood abiding; and the princes scorned him with them, and said, Other men he made safe; make he himself safe, if this be Christ, the chosen of God. (And the people stood about waiting and watching; and their leaders scorned him, and said, He saved other men; let him save himself, if this be the Messiah, the chosen One of God.) 
And the knights nighed (or And the soldiers came near), and scorned him, and proffered vinegar to him or and offered vinegar to him, 
and said, If thou art king of Jews, make thee safe. (and said, If thou art the King of the Jews, save thyself.) 
And the superscription was written over him with Greek letters, and of Latin, and of Hebrew, or And the superscription was written on, (or over, or above), him, with letters of Greek, of Latin, and of Hebrew, This is the king of Jews (or This is the King of the Jews). 
And one of these thieves that hanged (there), or Forsooth one of those thieves that hanged (there), blasphemed him, and said, If thou art Christ, make thyself safe and us, (or If thou art the Messiah, save thyself and us). 
But the other answering, blamed him, and said, Neither thou dreadest God, thou that art in the same condemnation or in the same damnation? (But the other one answering him, rebuked him, and said, Fearest thou not God, thou who art under the same condemnation, or the same damnation?) 
And truly we justly, for we have received worthy things to (or for)our works or (for our) deeds; but this did nothing of evil or soothly this hath done no evil. 
And he said to Jesus, Lord, have mind of me (or remember me), when thou comest into thy kingdom. 
And Jesus said to him, Truly I say to thee (or I tell you the truth), this day thou shalt be with me in paradise. 
And it was almost the sixth hour, and darknesses were made on all the earth, into the ninth hour or till the ninth hour. (And it was almost noon, and then darkness came upon all the land, until three o’clock.) 
And the sun was made dark, and the veil of the temple was rent atwo or was cut down the middle. (And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the Temple was torn in two.) 
And Jesus crying with a great voice, said, Father, into thine hands I betake my spirit, (or And Jesus crying with a loud voice, said, Father, into thine hands I deliver, or I commend, my spirit). And he saying these things, gave up the ghost, or And he saying these things, sent out the spirit, or died. 
And the centurion seeing that thing that was done, glorified God, and said, Verily, this man was just. (And the centurion, seeing all that was done, glorified God, and said, Truly, this man was good and righteous, or It is true, this man was innocent.) 
And all the people of them that were there together at this spectacle, and saw those things that were done, smote their breasts, and turned again (or and then returned home). 
But all his known stood afar, and (the) women that (pur)sued him from Galilee (or and the women who followed him from Galilee), seeing these things. 
And lo! a man, Joseph by name, of Arimathaea, a city of Judea, that was a decurion, a good man and a just (man), And lo! a man, Joseph by name, that was a decurion, that is, having ten men under him, a good man and just, of Arimathaea, a city of Judea,(And behold! a man called Joseph, of Arimathaea, a city of Judea, who was a member of the Council or the Sanhedrin, a good and righteous man,) 
this man consented not to the counsel and to the deeds of them; and he abode the kingdom of God. (this man did not agree with, or approve of, their plan and their deeds; and he was waiting for the Kingdom of God.) 
This Joseph came to Pilate, and asked (for) the body of Jesus, 
and took it down, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and laid him in a grave hewn (or and laid him in a tomb cut out of the rock), in which not yet any man had been laid or in which not yet any man was put. 
And the day was the even(ing) of the holiday, or of the holy day, the making ready of pask, and the sabbath began to shine. (And that day was the evening of the day after Passover, and the Sabbath was about to begin.) 
And the women (pur)suing (him), that came with him from Galilee, saw the grave, and how his body was laid. (And the women following him, who had come with him from Galilee, saw the tomb, and how his body was placed in it.) 
And they turned again, and made ready sweet smelling spices, and ointments; but in the sabbath they rested, after the commandment. (And then they returned home, and prepared sweet smelling spices, and ointments; but on the Sabbath they rested, according to the commandment.) 
