ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 44.
Praise we glorious men, and our fathers and mothers in their gener-ation. 
The Lord made much glory by his great doing, from the world. 
Great men in virtue were lords in their powers, and rich in their prudence; telling in (or by the) prophets, (or by prophecies), the dignity of (the) prophets, 
and commanding in (the) present people, and telling holiest words to (the) peoples, by the virtue of prudence. 
Seeking manners of music in their cunning (or in their knowing), and telling songs or ditties of scriptures. 
Rich men in virtue, having the study of fairness, making peace in their houses. 
All these men got glory in the generations of their folk; and be had in praisings in their days. 
They that were born of them, left a name to tell the praisings of them. 
And some there be, of which is no mind (or memory); they perished as they that were not, and they were born as not born; and their sons perished with them. 
But also the men of mercy be, whose pieties or piousnesses failed not; 
and good heritage dwelled continually with the seed of them. And the seed of their sons’ sons stood in (the) testament, 
and the heritage of their sons dwelleth for them, till into without end; 
the seed of them, and the glory of them, shall not be forsaken. 
The bodies of them be buried in peace; and the name of them shall live into generations and generations. 
(The) Peoples (shall) tell (of) the wisdom of them; and the church telleth the praising of them. 
Enoch pleased God, and was translated into paradise, (so) that he give wisdom to folks. 
Noah was found perfect and just or rightwise, and he was made reconciling in the time of wrathful-ness. Therefore residue seed was left to (the) earth, when the great flood was made. 
(The) Testaments of the world were set with him, lest all flesh might be done away by the great flood. 
Abraham was the great father of the multitude of folks; and none was found like him in glory, that is, in virtuous work, 
which kept the law of (the) high Godor of the Highest, and was in testament (or in covenant) with him. He made a testament to stand in his flesh; and he was found faithful in temptation. 
Therefore God with an oath gave to him glory in his folk; God made him to increase, as an heap of earth, and to enhance his seed as (the) stars, and to inherit them from the sea unto the sea, from the flood (or the river) unto the ends of (the) earth. 
And to (or for) Isaac God did in the same manner, (as) for Abraham, his father. The Lord gave to him the blessing of all folks; and confirmed his testament 
on the head of Jacob. He knew him in his blessings, and gave heritage to him; and parted or divided to him a part in (the) twelve lineages. 
