JOHN.
Chapter 7.
After these things Jesus walked into Galilee, for he would not walk into Judea, for the Jews sought to slay him. 
And there was nigh a feast day of the Jews, Scenopegia, that is, a feast of tabernacles, (or the Festival of Tabernacles). 
And his brethren said to him, Pass from hence (or Go forth from here), and go into Judea, (so) that also thy disciples see thy works that thou doest; 
for no man doeth anything in huddles (or in secret), and himself seeketh to be (out in the) open, +or forsooth no man doeth anything in hid place, or (in) privy, (or for no one doeth anything in a hidden place, or in private), and he seeketh to be (out) in (the) open. If thou doest these things, show thyself to the world. 
For neither his brethren believed in him. 
Therefore Jesus saith to them, My time came not yet, but your time is (for)evermore ready. (My hour hath not yet come, or It is not yet my time, but it is always your time.) 
The world may not hate you, soothly it hateth me; for I bear witnessing thereof (or for I testify to it), that the works of it be evil. 
Go ye up to this feast day, but I shall not go up to this feast day, for my time is not yet fulfilled, or full-filled, (or for my time is not yet filled full, or hath not yet fully come to fruition). 
When he had said these things, he dwelt in Galilee. 
And after that his brethren were gone up, then he went up to the feast day, not openly, but as in private. 
Therefore the Jews sought him in the feast day (or And so the Jews looked for him on the Feast Day, or at the Festival), and said, Where is he? 
And much grudging was of him among the people (or And there was much grumbling about him among the people). For some said, That he is good; and others said, Nay, but he deceiveth the people; 
nevertheless no man spake openly of him, for dread of the Jews (or for fear of the Jews). 
But when the middle feast day came, Jesus went up into the temple (or Jesus went to the Temple), and taught. 
And the Jews wondered, and said, How knoweth this man letters, since he hath not learned? (or How can this man know so much, since he hath not studied?) 
Jesus answered to them, and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. 
If any man will do his will, he shall know of the teaching, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. 
He that speaketh of himself, seeketh his own glory; but he that seeketh the glory of him that sent him, is soothfast (or is truthful), and unrightwiseness is not in him. 
Whether Moses gave not to you a law, and none of you doeth or keepeth the law? What seek ye to slay me? (Did not Moses give you the Law? and yet none of you obeyeth the Law. Why do ye seek to kill me?) 
And the people answered, and said, Thou hast a devil; who seeketh to slay thee? 
Jesus answered, and said to them, I have done one work, and all ye wonder. 
Therefore Moses gave to you circumcision; not for it is of Moses, but of the fathers, (or not that it was from Moses, but from the fathers); and in (or on) the sabbath ye circumcise a man. 
If a man take circumcision in the sabbath, that the law of Moses be not broken, (why) have ye indignation, or wrath, to me, for I made all a man whole in the sabbath? (And if a man receive his circumcision on the Sabbath, so that the Law of Moses be not broken, then why have ye indignation, or wrath, against me, for I made a man all whole, or I healed him, on the Sabbath?) 
Do not ye deem after the face, but deem ye a rightful doom. (Do not simply judge on the surface, but rather make the correct judgement.) 
Therefore some of Jerusalem said, Whether this is not he, whom the Jews seek to slay? 
and lo! he speaketh openly, and they say nothing to him. Whether the princes know verily that this is Christ? (or Perhaps our leaders know that he is truly the Messiah?) 
But we know this man, of whence he is; but when Christ shall come, no man knoweth of whence he is. (And yet we know this man, where he is from; but when the Messiah shall come, no one shall know where he is from.) 
Therefore Jesus cried in the temple (when he was) teaching, and said, Ye know me, and ye know of whence I am; and I came not of myself, but he is true that sent me, whom ye know not. 
I know him, and if I say that I know him not, I shall be like to you, a liar; but I know him, for of him I am (or for I am from him), and he sent me. 
Therefore they sought to take (hold of) him, and no man set on him hands, for his hour came not yet. (And so they sought to take hold of him, but no one put his hands on him, for his hour had not yet come, or for it was not yet his time.) 
And many of the people believed in him, and said, When Christ shall come, whether he shall do more tokens than those that this doeth? (or When the Messiah shall come, shall he do more signs, or miracles, than these which he doeth?) 
The Pharisees heard the people musing of him, (concerning) these things; and the princes and the Pharisees sent ministers, to take him. (The Pharisees heard the people musing about him, concerning these things; and the leaders, or the high priests, and the Pharisees sent their servants, to take hold of him.) 
Therefore Jesus said to them, Yet a little time I am with you, and (then) I go to the Father, that sent me. 
Ye shall seek me, and ye shall not find me; and where I am, ye may not come (or ye cannot come). 
Therefore the Jews said to themselves, Whither shall this go, for we shall not find him? whether he will go into the scattering of heathen men, and will teach the heathen? (And so the Jews said to themselves, Where shall he go, that we shall not be able to find him? shall he go unto the Dispersion among the Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles?) 
What is this word, which he said, Ye shall seek me, and ye shall not find me; and where I am, ye may not come? (or and where I am, ye cannot come?) 
But in the last day of the great feast, (or But on the last day of the great Feast, or the great Festival), Jesus stood, and cried (out), and said, If any man thirsteth, come he to me, and drink. 
He that believeth in me, as the scripture saith, Rivers of quick water shall flow out of his womb. (He who believeth in me, as the Scripture saith, Rivers of living water, or Rivers of life-giving water, shall flow out of his belly.) 
But he said this thing of the (Holy) Spirit or of the Holy Ghost, whom men that believed in him should take (or which those who believed in him would receive later); for the Spirit was not yet given, for Jesus was not yet glorified. 
Therefore of that company, when they had heard these words of him, they said, This is verily a prophet (or He is truly the Prophet). 
Others said, This is Christ. But some said, Whether Christ cometh from Galilee? (Others said, He is the Messiah. But some said, Will the Messiah come from Galilee?) 
Whether the scripture saith not, that of the seed of David, and of the castle of Bethlehem, where David was, Christ cometh? (Saith not the Scripture, that from the seed of David, and from the village of Bethlehem, where David was, the Messiah shall come?) 
Therefore dissension was made among the people for him. 
And some of them would have taken (hold of) him, but no man set (his) hands on him. 
Therefore the ministers came to the bishops, and Pharisees, and they said to them, Why brought ye not him? (And so the servants came back to the high priests, and the Pharisees, and they said to them, Why have ye not brought him back to us?) 
The ministers answered (or The servants answered), Never (a) man spake so, as this man speaketh. 
Therefore the Pharisees answered to them, Whether ye be deceived also? 
whether any of the princes, or (we) of the Pharisees believed in him? (do any of the leaders, yea, the high priests, or we of the Pharisees believe in him?) 
But this people, that knoweth not the law, be cursed. (Let these people, who do not know the Law, be cursed!) 
Nicodemus saith to them, he that came to him by night, that was one of them, 
Whether our law deemeth a man, no but it have first heard of him or no but first it have heard of him, and know what he doeth? (Certainly our Law judgeth no one, unless it first have heard from him, and know what he doeth?) 
They answered, and said to him, Whether thou art a man of Galilee also? Seek thou (the) scriptures, and see thou, that a prophet riseth not (out) of Galilee. 
And they turned again, each into his house. (And then each of them returned to his own house.) 
