PSALMS.
Chapter 66.
To victory, the song ofthepsalm. All the earth, make ye joy heartily to God, (For the choirmaster, a psalm, yea, a song. All the earth, heartily make ye joy to God,) 
say ye psalm to his name; give ye glory to his praising. (sing ye a song to his name; give ye him glorious praise.) 
Say ye to God, Lord, thy works be full dreadful; in the multitude of thy virtue thine enemies shall lie (down) to thee. (Say ye to God, Lord, thy works be very fearful or how awesome be thy works; because of thy great strength thy enemies shall fall down before thee.) 
God, all the earth worship thee, and sing to thee; say it psalm to thy name. (God, let all the earth worship thee, and sing to thee; yea, sing they a song to thy name.) 
Come ye and see ye the works of God; fearedful in counsels on the sons of men (or fearful, or awesome, in his counsels toward the sons and daughters of men). 
Which turned the sea into dry land; in the flood they shall pass through with foot, there we shall be glad in him. (Who turned the sea into dry land; yea, they passed through the river on foot, and there we rejoiced in him.) 
The which is Lord in his virtue into without end, his eyes behold on folks; they that make sharp be not enhanced in themselves. (Who is the ruler by his might, or his power, forever, and his eyes look on the nations; let not they who rebel against him exalt themselves.) 
Ye heathen men, bless our God; and make ye heard the voice of his praising. (All ye heathen, bless our God; and make ye the sound of your praises heard.) 
That hath set my soul to life, and gave not my feet into stirring. (He hath given life to my soul or He hath given life to me, and kept my feet from slipping, or stumbling.) 
For thou, God, hast proved us; thou hast examined us by fire, as silver is examined, (or thou hast assayed us by fire, like silver is proved, or assayed). 
Thou leddest us into a snare, thou puttedest tribulations in our back; (Thou hast led us into a trap, thou hast put troubles upon our backs;) 
thou settedest men on our heads. We passed by fire and water; and thou leddest us out into refreshing. (thou settedest men to ride upon our heads. We passed through fire and water; and then thou leddest us out into refreshing.) 
I shall enter into thine house in burnt sacrifices; I shall yield to thee my vows, (I shall enter into thy House with burnt sacrifices; I shall pay my vows to thee,) 
which my lips spake distinctly. And my mouth spake in my tribulation; (which my lips shall speak clearly, or distinctly. Yea, what I said I would do, when I was in trouble, and you helped me.) 
I shall offer to thee burnt sacrifices full of marrow, with the burning of rams; I shall offer to thee oxes with bucks of goats. 
All ye that dread God, come and hear, and I shall tell; how great things he hath done to my soul. (All ye who fear God, come and listen; and I shall tell you what great things he hath done for my soul./All ye who revere God, come and listen; and I shall tell you what great things he hath done for me.) 
I cried to him with my mouth; and I joyed fully under my tongue. (I cried to him with my mouth; and I praised him with my tongue.) 
If I beheld wickedness in mine heart; the Lord shall not hear. (And if I had still held wickedness in my heart; then the Lord would not have heard me.) 
Therefore God heard; and he perceived the voice of my beseeching. (But truly God did hear me; and he hath listened to the words of my plea.) 
Blessed be God; that removed not my prayer, nor his mercy from me. (Blessed be God; who did not turn my prayer away, nor kept back his love from me.) 
