PHILEMON.
Chapter 1.
Paul, the bound of Christ Jesus, and Timothy, (a) brother, to Philemon, beloved, and our helper, (Paul, a prisoner of the Messiah Jesus, or a prisoner for the sake of the Messiah Jesus, and Timothy, a brother, to Philemon, beloved, and our helper,) 
and to Apphia, most dear sister, and to Archippus, our even-knight (or our fellow soldier), and to the church that is in thine house, 
grace be to you, and (the) peace of God our Father, and of the Lord Jesus Christ. 
I do thankings to my God, (for)evermore making mind of thee, in my prayers, (I give thanks to my God, always remembering thee, in my prayers,) 
hearing (of) thy charity, and faith, that thou hast in the Lord Jesus, and to all holy men, (hearing of thy love, and the faith, which thou hast in the Lord Jesus, and for all the saints, or all of God’s people,) 
that the communing of thy faith be made open, in (the) knowing of all good thing(s) in Christ Jesus. (so that the sharing of thy faith be made open, in the knowledge of all the good things in the Messiah Jesus.) 
And I had great joy and comfort in thy charity, for the entrails of holy men rested or were refreshed by thee, brother. (And I had great joy and strength in thy love, for the hearts of the saints, or of God’s people, were refreshed by thee, brother.) 
For which thing I having much trust in Christ Jesus (or For which thing I having much trust in the Messiah Jesus), to command to thee that that pertaineth to profit; 
but I beseech more for charity, since thou art such as the old Paul, and now the bound of Jesus Christ. (but I beseech thee more out of love, since thou art like old Paul, now the prisoner of Jesus Christ, or now a prisoner for the sake of Jesus Christ.) 
I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I in bonds begat, 
which sometime was unprofitable to thee, but now profitable, both to thee and to me; 
whom I sent again to thee. And receive thou him as mine entrails (or And receive him as thou would receive me); 
whom I would withhold with me, that he should serve for thee to me in (the) bonds of the gospel; (whom I would keep here with me, so that he could serve me for thee here where I am in prison for the sake of the Gospel or the Good News;) 
but without thy counsel I would not do anything, that thy good should not be as of need, but willful. (but without thy counsel, or without thy consent, I would not do anything, so that thy good doing would not be done as out of necessity, but out of thy own free will or willingly.) 
For peradventure therefore he departed from thee for a time, (so) that thou shouldest receive him into without end; 
now not as a servant, but for a servant a most dear brother or but more than a servant, (yea), (a) most dear brother, most(ly) to me; and how much more to thee, both in the flesh and in the Lord? 
Therefore if thou hast me a fellow, receive him as me; 
for if he hath anything annoyed (or harmed) thee, either oweth (thee), areckon thou this thing to me. 
I, Paul, wrote with mine (own) hand, (and) I shall yield (it); (and) that I say not to thee, that also thou owest to me thyself. 
So, brother, I shall use thee in the Lord; full-fill thou mine entrails in Christ (or fill thou my heart full with the Messiah). 
I trusting of thine obedience wrote to thee, witting that thou shalt do over that that I say (or knowing that thou shalt do even more than what I ask you to do). 
Also make thou ready to me an house to dwell in; for I hope that by your prayers I shall be given to you. 
Epaphras, (a) prisoner with me in Christ Jesus, greeteth thee well, (Epaphras, a prisoner like me of the Messiah Jesus, or a prisoner like me for the sake of the Messiah Jesus, heartily greeteth thee,) 
and Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, mine helpers. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. 
