DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 11.
And the apostles, and the brethren that were in Judea, heard that also heathen men received the word of God, and they glorified God. (And the apostles, and the brothers who were in Judea, heard that the Gentiles had also accepted the word of God, and they glorified God.) 
But when Peter came to Jerusalem, they that were of (the) circumcision, disputed against him, 
and said, Why enteredest thou to men that have prepuce, and hast eaten with them? (and said, Why hast thou gone to those who have foreskin, or who be uncircumcised, and hast eaten with them?) 
And Peter began, and expounded to them by order, and said, 
I was in the city of Joppa, and prayed, and I saw in (the) ravishing of my mind, or in (the) excess of my soul, a vision, that a vessel came down, as a great sheet with four cords or with four corners, and was sent down from heaven; and it came to me. 
Into which I looking beheld, and saw (the) four-footed beasts of the earth, and (other) beasts, and (the) creeping beasts, and (the) volatiles of (the) heaven(s), or of the air, (or and the birds of the air). 
And I heard also a voice that said to me, Peter, rise thou, and slay, and eat. 
But I said, Nay, Lord; for common thing either unclean entered never into my mouth. (But I said, No, Lord; for a common or an unclean thing hath never entered into my mouth.) 
And the voice answered the second time from heaven, That thing that God hath cleansed, say thou not unclean. 
And this was done by thrice, and (then) all (the) things were received again into heaven. 
And lo! three men anon stood in the house, in which I was, (or And behold! three men at once arrived at the house, where I was); and they were sent from Caesarea to me. 
And the Spirit said to me, that I should go with them, and doubt nothing. Yea, and these six brethren came with me, and we entered into the house of the man. 
And he told to us, how he saw an angel in his house, standing and saying to him, Send thou into Joppa, and call Simon, that is named Peter, 
which shall speak to thee words, in which thou shalt be safe, and all thine house. (who shall speak to thee the words, by which thou shalt be saved, and all of thine house.) 
And when I had begun to speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as into us in the beginning. (And when I had begun to speak, the Holy Spirit fell upon them, as upon us at the beginning.) 
And I bethought on the word of the Lord, as he said, For John baptized in water, but ye shall be baptized in the Holy Ghost (or For John baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit). 
Therefore if God gave to them the same grace, as to us that believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I, that might forbid the Lord, that he give not the Holy Ghost or that he should not give the Holy Ghost to them that believed in the name of Jesus Christ? (And so if God gave them the same gift, as to us who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I, who would forbid the Lord, yea, that he should not give the Holy Spirit to those who believed in the name of Jesus Christ?) 
When these things were heard, they held peace, and glorified God, and said, Therefore also to heathen men God hath given penance to life. (When they heard these things, they held their peace, and glorified God, and said, And so God hath given life-giving repentance also to the Gentiles.) 
And they that were scattered of the tribulation that was made under Stephen (or Now those who were scattered after the persecution that was made after Stephen’s death), walked forth to Phenice, and to Cyprus, and to Antioch, and spake the word to no man, but to (the) Jews alone. 
But some of them were men of Cyprus, and of Cyrene; which when they had entered into Antioch, they spake to the Greeks, and preached the Lord Jesus. 
And the hand of the Lord was with them, and much number of men believing was converted to the Lord. 
And the word came to the ears of the church, that was at Jerusalem, on these things; and they sent Barnabas to Antioch. 
And when he was come, and saw the grace of the Lord, he joyed, and admonished all men to dwell in the Lord in purpose of heart; (And when he had come, and saw the blessing of the Lord, he rejoiced, and admonished everyone to remain in the Lord with a resolute heart;) 
for he was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost (or and full of the Holy Spirit), and of faith. And much people was increased to the Lord. 
And he went forth to Tarsus, to seek Saul; 
and when he had found him, he led (him) to Antioch. And all a year they lived there in the church, and taught much people, so that the disciples were named first at Antioch christian men (or were first called Christians at Antioch). 
And in these days prophets came over from Jerusalem to Antioch. 
And one of them rose up, Agabus by name, and signified by the Spirit a great hunger to coming or a great hunger to come in all the world, which hunger was made under Claudius (or and this famine occurred during the reign of Claudius). 
And all the disciples purposed, after that (that) each had, for to send (or to contribute) into (the) ministry to (the) brethren that dwelled in Judea. 
Which thing also they did, and sent it to the elder men, by the hands of Barnabas and Saul. 
