PSALMS.
Chapter 48.
The song of psalm, of the sons of Korah. The Lord is great, and worthy to be praised full much; in the city of our God, in the holy hill of him. (A psalm, yea, a song by the Korahites. The Lord is great, and worthy to be greatly praised; in the city of our God, on his holy hill.) 
It is founded in the full out joying of all earth; the hill of Zion, the sides of the north, the city of the great king. (Well-placed, it is the full out joy, or the rejoicing, of all the earth; Mount Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great King.) 
God shall be known in the houses thereof; when he shall take it. (And God is known as a refuge, or a stronghold, in its palaces.) 
For lo! the kings of (the) earth were gathered together (against it); they came into one place. 
They seeing, so wondered; they were troubled, they were moved (al)together, (But when they saw it, they wondered about it or they were full of wonder, or amazement; and they were troubled, and ran away,) 
trembling took them. There sorrows, as of a woman travailing of child; (for panic, or trembling, took hold of them there. And sorrows, like when a woman laboureth with child;) 
in a great spirit thou shalt all-break the ships of Tarshish. (or when a great east wind all-breaketh the ships from Tarshish.) 
As we heard, so we saw, in the city of the Lord of virtues, in the city of our God; God hath founded that city into without end. (All that we had heard about, we saw with our own eyes, in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God; and God hath established that city forever.) 
God, we have received thy mercy; in the midst of thy temple. (God, we think about thy love; in the midst of thy Temple.) 
After thy name, God, so thy praising is spread abroad into the ends of earth; thy right hand is full of rightwiseness. (The praising of thy name, O God, is spread abroad unto the ends of the earth; thy right hand is full of righteousness.) 
The hill of Zion be glad, and the daughters of Judah be fully joyful; for thy dooms, Lord. (Let Mount Zion be glad, or rejoice, and let the daughters of Judah make full out joy; because of thy judgements, Lord.) 
Compass ye Zion, and embrace ye it; tell ye in the towers thereof. (March ye around Zion, ye people; and count ye up its towers.) 
Set ye your hearts in the virtue of him; and part ye the houses of him, that ye tell out in another generation. (Put ye its strongholds, or its fortresses, in your hearts; and think ye about its palaces, so that ye can tell about it to the next generation.) 
For this is God, our God, into without end, and into the world of world; he shall govern us into worlds. (For this God is our God, forever and ever; yea, he shall govern us forever.) 
