2ND THESSALONIANS.
Chapter 2.
But, brethren, we pray you by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and of our congregation into the same coming or and our congregation into the same thing, 
that ye be not moved soon from your wit, neither be afeared, (or that ye be not soon moved away from your reason, nor be made afraid), neither by spirit, neither by word, neither by epistle as sent by us, as if the day of the Lord be nigh. 
(Let) No man deceive you in any manner. For but dissension or departing away come first, and the man of sin be showed, the son of perdition, 
that is (the) adversary, and is enhanced over all thing that is said God, or that is worshipped, so that he sit in the temple of God, and show himself as if he were God. (that is the Adversary, and he is exalted over all that is called a god, or that is worshipped, so that he even sit in God’s Temple, and show himself as if he were God.) 
Whether ye hold not, that yet when I was at you, I said these things to you? (Do ye not remember, that while I was still with you, I said these things to you?) 
And now what withholdeth, or letteth, (or hindereth), him, ye know, (so) that he be showed in his time. 
For the private, or the mystery, (or the secret), of wickedness worketh now; (so) only that he that holdeth (onto it) now, hold (firm), till he be done away. 
And then that wicked man shall be showed, whom the Lord Jesus shall slay with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with (the) lightening, or the illumining, or (the) shining, of his coming; 
him, whose coming is by the working of Satan, in all virtue (or in all power), and signs (or miracles), and great wonders, false, or leasing (or lying), 
and in all deceit of wickedness, to them that perish. For that they received not the charity of (the) truth, that they should be made safe, (or Because they have not received the love of the truth, so that they could be saved). 
And therefore God shall send to them a working of error, that they believe to leasing (or so that they believe the lie), 
that all be deemed, or be damned, (or condemned), which believed not to truth, (or so that all be judged, who did not believe the truth), but consented to wickedness. 
But, brethren (be)loved of God, we owe to do thankings (for)evermore to God for you, that God chose us the first fruits into health, in (the) hallowing of (the) Spirit and in (the) faith of (the) truth; (But, brothers beloved by God, we ought to always give thanks to God for you, because God chose all of us as the first fruits unto salvation, by the sanctifying of the Spirit and by faith in the truth;) 
in which also he called you by our gospel, (or in which he also called you by the Gospel, or the Good News, which we brought), into the getting of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Therefore, brethren, stand ye, (or And so, brothers, stand), and hold ye the traditions, that ye have learned, either by word, either by our epistle. 
And our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father, which loved us (or who loved us), and gave everlasting comfort and good hope in grace, 
stir or admonish your hearts, and confirm you in all good work and word. 
