HEBREWS.
Chapter 12.
Therefore we that have so great a cloud of witnesses put (forth) to us, do we away all charge, and sin standing about us, and by patience run we to the battle, or to the strife, or (the) fight, purposed to us, (And so we who have such a great crowd of witnesses put before us, let us do away every burden, and every sin standing about us, and then girded with endurance let us run to the battle, or to the strife, or the fight, purposed for us,) 
beholding into the maker of faith, and the perfect ender, Jesus; which when joy was purposed to him, he suffered the cross, and despised confusion, and sitteth on the right half of the seat of God. (beholding the maker and the perfect finisher of faith, Jesus; who when joy was purposed to him, he suffered the cross, and despised its shame, and now sitteth at the right hand, or on the right side, of God’s throne.) 
And bethink ye on him that suffered such gainsaying of sinful men against himself, that ye be not made weary, failing in your souls. (And so think upon him who suffered such opposition, or such railing, against himself from sinners, so that ye be not made weary, and lose heart.) 
For ye against-stood not yet unto (the) blood, fighting against sin. 
And ye have forgotten the comfort that speaketh to you as to sons, and saith, My son, do not thou despise the teaching or the discipline of the Lord, neither be thou made weary, the while thou art chastised of him. 
For the Lord chastiseth him that he loveth; he beateth or he scourgeth every son that he receiveth. 
Abide ye still in chastising; God proffereth him(self) to you as to sons +or Last ye therefore in discipline; God offereth him(self) to you as to sons. For what son is it, whom the father chastiseth not? 
That if ye be out of chastising, whose partners be ye all made +or That if ye be out of discipline, of which all ye be made partners, then ye be adulterers (or ye be bastards), and not sons. 
And afterward we had fathers of our flesh, (yea), teachers, and we with reverence dreaded them (or and we had fearful reverence for them). Whether not much more we shall obey to the Father of spirits, and (then) we shall live? 
And they in time of few days taught us by their will; but this Father teacheth to that thing that is profitable, in(to) receiving (of) the hallowing of him. (And they taught us for only a few days, or they disciplined us for only a short time, out of their own desires; but this Father teacheth or disciplineth that which is profitable, unto the receiving or the sharing of his holiness.) 
And each chastising in this present time seemeth to be not of joy, but of sorrow; but afterward it shall yield (the) fruit of rightwiseness most peaceable to men exercised by it. 
For which thing raise ye up slow hands, and knees unbound, 
and make ye rightful steps to your feet; (so) that no man halting err, but (that) more be healed. 
(Pur)Sue ye peace with all men (or Seek peace with everyone), and holiness, without which no man shall see God. 
Behold ye, that no man fail to the grace of God, (so) that no root of bitterness burrowing upward hinder us, and many be defouled by it (or and by which many be defiled); 
that no man be (a) lecher, either unholy, as Esau (was), which for one meal’s meat sold his first things, or (his) heritage, (or who for the food of one meal sold his birthright, or his inheritance). 
For know ye, that afterward he coveting to inherit (a) blessing, was reproved. For he found not (a) place of penance, though he sought it with tears. (For know ye, that afterward he coveting to inherit a blessing, was rebuked. For he could not find a way to repentance, though he sought it with tears.) 
But ye have not come to the fire able to be touched, and able to come to, and to the whirlwind or the great wind, and (the) mist, and (the) tempest, 
and sound of trump, and voice of words, (or and the sound of the trumpet, and the sound of words); which they that heard, excused them(selves), (so) that the word should not be made to them. 
For they bare not that that was said, And if a beast touched the hill, it was stoned or it shall be stoned. 
And so dreadful it was that was seen (or And what was seen was so fearful), that Moses said, I am afeared, and full of trembling. 
But ye have come nigh to the hill of Sion, and to the city of God living, or and to the city of living God, (or But ye have come near to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God), the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the multitude of many thousand angels, 
and to the church of the first men, which be written in (the) heavens, and to God, doomsman of all, and to the spirit(s) of just (and) perfect men, (and to the congregation or to the assembly of the first-born, whose names be written in heaven, and to God, the Judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous or good people made perfect,) 
and to Jesus, mediator of the new testament, (or and to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant), and to the sprinkling of blood, speaking better than Abel or better speaking than Abel’s blood. 
See ye, that ye forsake not or that ye refuse (not) the speaker; for if they that forsaked or refusing him that spake on the earth, escaped not, much more we that turn away from him that speaketh to us from (the) heavens. (See, that ye do not refuse to listen to the speaker; for if those who refused to listen to him, who spoke on the earth, did not escape, then how much more we who turn away from him, who now speaketh to us from heaven.) 
Whose voice then moved the earth, but now he again promiseth, and saith, Yet once and I shall move not only the earth, but also heaven. (Whose voice then shook the earth, and now he again promiseth, and saith, Yet once more I shall shake not only the earth, but also heaven.) 
And that he saith, Yet once (more), he declareth the translation of moveable things, as of made things, that those things dwell, that be unmoveable. (And that he saith, Yet once more, he declareth the shaking of moveable things, that is, of made or created things, so that those other things remain, which be unmoveable.) 
Therefore we receiving the kingdom unmoveable, have we grace, by which serve we pleasing to God with dread and reverence. (And so having received an unshakeable kingdom, let us be grateful, and let our service please God, yea, with fearful reverence.) 
For our God is (a) fire that wasteth. 
