1ST JOHN.
Chapter 5.
Each man that believeth that Jesus is Christ, is born of God; and each man that loveth him that (en)gendered or that loveth him that (en)gendereth, loveth him that is born of him. (Each one who believeth that Jesus is the Messiah, is born of God or is a child of God; and each one who loveth him that begetteth, loveth him who is born of him.) 
In this thing we know, that we love the children of God, when we love God, and do his commandments (or and obey his commands). 
For this is the charity of God, that we keep his commandments; and his commandments be not heavy or grievous. (For this is the love of God, that we obey his commands; and his commands be not heavy or grievous.) 
For all thing that is born of God, overcometh the world, (or For everyone who is born of God or who is a child of God, overcometh the world); and this is the victory that overcometh the world, our faith. 
And who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God? 
This is Jesus Christ, that came by water and blood; not in water only, but in water and blood. And the Spirit is he that witnesseth, that Christ is the truth, (or And the Spirit is he who testifieth, that the Messiah is the truth). 
For three be, that give witnessing in heaven, the Father, the Son or the Word, and the Holy Ghost; and these three be one. (For there be three, who give testimony in heaven, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit; and these three be one.) 
And three be, that give witnessing in earth, (or And there be three, that give testimony on earth), the Spirit, water, and blood; and these three be one. 
If we receive the witnessing of men, the witnessing of God is more; for this is the witnessing of God, that is more, for he witnessed of his Son. (If we accept the testimony of men, then the testimony of God is greater or is stronger; for this is the testimony of God, that is greater or is stronger, that he testified about his Son.) 
He that believeth in the Son of God, hath the witnessing of God in him. He that believeth not to the Son, maketh him a liar; for he believeth not in the witnessing that God witnessed of his Son. (He who believeth in the Son of God, hath God’s testimony in him. He who believeth not in the Son, maketh him out to be a liar; for he believeth not in the testimony that God testified about his Son.) 
And this is the witnessing, for God gave to you everlasting life or for God gave to us everlasting life, and this life is in his Son. (And this is the testimony, that God gave us Eternal Life, or eternal life, and this life is in his Son.) 
He that hath the Son of God, hath also life; he that hath not the Son of God, hath not life. (He who hath the Son (of God), hath also life; he who hath not the Son (of God), hath not life.) 
I write to you these things, that ye know, that ye have everlasting life, which believe in the name of God’s Son. (I write these things to you, so that ye know, that ye have Eternal Life, or eternal life, ye who believe in the name of God’s Son.) 
And this is the trust which we have to God or And this is the trust that we have in God, that whatever thing we ask after his will, he shall hear us (or he shall listen to us). 
And we know, that he heareth us, whatever thing we shall ask; we know, that we have the askings, that we ask of him. 
He that knoweth that his brother sinneth a sin not to death, ask he (for him), and life shall be given to him that sinneth not to death (or and life shall be given to him who sinneth not a deadly sin). There is a sin to death; not for it I say, that any man pray. 
Each wickedness is sin, and there is a sin to death. 
We know, that each man that is born of God, sinneth not; but the generation of God keepeth him (or but the Son of God keepeth him safe), and the wicked (one) toucheth him not. 
We know, that we be of God, and all the world is set in evil. 
And we know, that the Son of God came in (the) flesh, and gave to us wit, that we know him very God, and be in the very Son Jesus of him. This is very God, and everlasting life. (And we know, that the Son of God came in the flesh, and gave understanding to us, so that we can know him, the true God, and so that we can be in His true Son, Jesus. This is the true God, and Eternal Life, or eternal life.) 
My little sons, keep ye you (safe) from maumets. Little sons, keep ye you (safe) from simulacra. My little sons, keep away from idols (or false gods). Amen. 
