ROMANS.
Chapter 10.
Brethren, the will of mine heart and my beseeching is made to God for them into health. (Brothers, my heart’s desire and my beseeching be made to God for their salvation.) 
But I bear witnessing to them, that they have the love of God, but not after cunning (or knowing). (For I can testify about them, that they have the love of God, but it is not based on true knowledge.) 
For they unknowing (or not knowing) God’s rightwiseness, and seeking to make steadfast their own rightwiseness, be not subject to the rightwiseness of God. 
For the end of the law is Christ, to rightwiseness to each man that believeth. (For the end of the law is the Messiah, unto righteousness for each man who believeth.) 
For Moses wrote, For the man that shall do rightwiseness that is of the law, shall live in it. 
But the rightwiseness that is of belief, saith thus, Say thou not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? that is to say, to lead down Christ, (or that is to say, to bring down the Messiah); 
or who shall go down into hell? that is, to again-call Christ from death, (or that is, to bring the Messiah up from the dead). +or who shall go down into (the) deepness, or into (the) depth(s)? that is, to again-call Christ from the dead. 
But what saith the scripture? The word is nigh in thy mouth, and in thine heart; this is the word of belief (or this is the word of faith), which we preach. 
That if thou acknowledge in thy mouth the Lord Jesus Christ, and believest in thine heart, that God raised him from death or that God raised him from (the) dead, thou shalt be safe. (If thou acknowledge with thy mouth that Jesus Christ is the Lord, and believest in thine heart, that God raised him from the dead, then thou shalt be saved.) 
For by heart me believeth to rightwiseness or Forsooth by heart men believeth to rightwiseness, but by mouth acknowledging is made to health (or unto salvation). 
For why the scripture saith, Each that believeth in him, shall not be confounded. (Because the Scripture saith, Everyone who believeth in him, shall not be shamed.) 
And there is no distinction of Jew and of Greek (or And there is no difference between Jew and Greek); for the same Lord of all is rich into all, that inwardly call him or that in-call him. 
For each man, whoever shall inwardly call the name of the Lord or whoever shall in-call the name of the Lord, shall be safe (or shall be saved). 
How then shall they inwardly call him or How therefore shall they in-call him, into whom they have not believed? or how shall they believe to him, whom they have not heard? (or how shall they believe in him, whom they have not heard?) How shall they hear, without a preacher? 
and how shall they preach, but (that) they be sent? As it is written, How fair be the feet of them that preach or that evangelize peace, of them that preach good things. 
But not all men obey to the gospel. For Esaias saith, Lord, who believed to our hearing? (But not everyone obeyeth the Gospel or the Good News. For Isaiah saith, Lord, who believed our message?) 
Therefore faith is of hearing or Therefore faith by hearing, but hearing by the word of Christ (or through the word of the Messiah). 
But I say, Whether they heard not? Yes, soothly, the sound of them went out into all the earth, (Yes, truly, their voices went out unto all the earth), and their words into the ends of the world. 
But I say, Whether Israel knew not? First Moses saith, I shall lead you to envy, that ye be no folk (or so that ye be not a nation), or First Moses saith, I shall lead you to envy, to not a folk; (for) that ye be an unwise folk, I shall send you into wrath. 
And Esaias is bold, and saith, I am found of men that seek me not; openly I appeared to them, that asked not (about) me. (And Isaiah is bold, and saith, I am found by men who did not seek me; openly I appeared to them, who did not ask for me.) 
But to Israel he saith, All day I stretched out mine hands to a people that believed not to me, but gainsaid me. (But to Israel he says, All day I have stretched out my hands to a people that did not believe me, but rather, spoke against me.) 
