EPHESIANS.
Chapter 3.
For the grace of this thing I, Paul, the bound of Christ Jesus, for you heathen men, (For the grace of this thing I, Paul, the prisoner of the Messiah Jesus, for you Gentiles,) 
if nevertheless ye have heard the dispensation of God’s grace, that is given to me in you. 
For by revelation the sacrament is made known to me, as I above wrote in short thing, 
as ye may read, and understand my prudence in the mystery of Christ. (so ye can read, and understand my comprehension of the secret of the Messiah.) 
Which was not known to other generations to the sons of men, as it is now showed to his holy apostles and prophets in the Spirit, 
that heathen men be even-heirs, and of one body, and partners together of his promise in Christ Jesus by the evangel; (that the Gentiles be equal heirs, and of one body, and partners together of his promise in the Messiah Jesus by the Gospel or the Good News;) 
whose minister I am made, by the gift of God’s grace, which is given to me by the working of his virtue (or which is given to me by the working of his power). 
To me, least of all (the) saints, this grace is given to preach or to evangelize among heathen men the unsearchable riches of Christ, (To me, least of all of God’s people, this grace is given to preach among the Gentiles the immeasurable riches of the Messiah,) 
and to (en)lighten all men, which is the dispensation of the sacrament hid from worlds in God, that made all things of nought; (and to enlighten all men, which is the dispensation of the mystery, or the secret, hidden from the beginning, or from the Creation, in God, who made everything out of nothing;) 
(so) that the much-fold wisdom of God be known to princes and potentates in heavenly things by the church, 
by the before-ordinance of worlds or after the setting of worlds, which he made in Christ Jesus our Lord. (according to his eternal purpose, which he made in the Messiah Jesus our Lord.) 
In whom we have trust and nigh coming to, in trusting by the faith of him. 
For which thing I ask, that ye fail not in my tribulations for you, which is your glory. 
For grace of this thing I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
of whom each fatherhood (or every family) in heavens and in earth is named, of whom each fatherhood in heaven and in earth is named, 
(so) that he give to you, after the riches of his glory, (the) virtue (or the power) to be strengthened by his Spirit in the inner man, 
that Christ dwell by faith in your hearts; that ye rooted and grounded in charity, (so that the Messiah live by faith in your hearts; so that ye rooted and grounded in love,) 
may (be able to) comprehend with all (the) saints, which is the breadth, and the length, and the highness, and the deepness; (can grasp along with all of God’s people, what is the breadth, and the length, and the highness, and the depth;) 
also to know the charity of Christ more excellent(ly) than science, that ye be full-filled in all the plenty of God. (and also to know the love of the Messiah more completely than knowledge itself, so that ye be filled full with all the abundance of God.) 
And to him that is mighty to do all things more plenteously than we ask or understand, by the virtue that worketh in us (or by the power that worketh in us), 
to him be glory in the church, and in Christ Jesus, into all the generations of the world(s) of worlds. Amen. (to him be glory in the church, and in Messiah Jesus, from generation unto generation forever and ever. Amen.) 
