DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 18.
After these things Paul went out of Athens, and came to Corinth. 
And he found a man, a Jew, Aquila by name, of Pontus by kind, that (of) late came from Italy, and Priscilla, his wife, for that Claudius commanded all Jews to depart from Rome; and he came to them. 
And for that he was of the same craft, he dwelled with them, and wrought; and they were of rope-makers craft, or soothly they were of tent-makers craft, that is, to make coverings to (or for) travelling men. 
And he disputed in the synagogue by each sabbath, putting among (them) the name of the Lord Jesus; and he counselled (the) Jews and Greeks. 
And when Silas and Timothy came from Macedonia, Paul gave busyness to the word, and witnessed to the Jews, that Jesus is Christ, (or and testified to the Jews, that Jesus is the Messiah). 
But when they gainsaid and blasphemed, he shook away his clothes, or he shook off his clothes, (or he shook out his clothes), and said to them, Your blood be on your head; I shall be clean from henceforth, and I shall go to (the) heathen men (or to the Gentiles). 
And he passed from thence, and entered into the house of a just man, Titus by name, that worshipped God, whose house was joined to the synagogue. 
And Crispus, (the) prince of the synagogue, believed to the Lord, with all his house. And many of the Corinthians heard, and believed, and were christened. (And Crispus, the leader of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, with all his house. And many of the Corinthians heard, and believed, and were baptized.) 
And the Lord said by night to Paul by a vision, Do not thou dread, but speak, and be not still; (And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, Do not fear, or Fear not, but continue to speak, and do not be silent;) 
for I am with thee, and no man shall be put to thee to harm thee, for much people is to me in this city (or for many people be with me in this city). 
And he dwelled there a year and six months, teaching among them the word of God. 
But when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rose up with one will against Paul, and led him to the doom (place), (or and led him to the seat of judgement or the court), 
and said, Against the law this (man) counseleth men to worship God. 
And when Paul began to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, If there were any wicked thing, either evil trespass or worst trespass, ye Jews, rightly I should suffer you, (or certainly I would allow you to present your case); 
but if questions be of the word, and of (the) names of your law, busy yourselves or ye yourselves see; I will not be doomsman of these things (or I will not be the judge of these matters). 
And he drove them from the doom place. 
And all took Sosthenes, (the) prince of the synagogue, and smote him before the doom place; and nothing of these was to care to Gallio. (And all the people took hold of Sosthenes, the leader of the synagogue, and beat him there in front of the seat of judgement or the court; but none of this was of any concern to Gallio.) 
And when Paul had abided many days, he said farewell to (the) brethren, and by boat came to Syria. And Priscilla and Aquila came with him, which had clipped his head in Cenchrea; for he had a vow. 
And he came to Ephesus, and there he left them (or and he departed from them there); and he went into the synagogue, and disputed with (the) Jews. 
And when they prayed (him), that he should dwell more time (there), he consented not, (And when they beseeched him, that he would spend more time there, he would not agree to it,) 
but he made farewell to (the) brethren, and said, It behooveth me to make the solemn day coming at Jerusalem, and (then) again I shall turn again to you, (or and then I shall return to you), if God will or God willing; and he went forth from Ephesus. 
And he came down to Caesarea, and he went up, and greeted the church, and came down to Antioch. 
And when he had dwelled there somewhat of time, he went forth, walking by row or walking by order through the country of Galatia, and (then) Phrygia, and confirmed all the disciples. 
But a Jew, Apollos by name, a man of Alexandria of kind, a man eloquent (or an eloquent man), came to Ephesus; and he was mighty in (the) scriptures. 
This man was taught the way of the Lord, and was fervent in spirit, and spake, and taught diligently those things that were of Jesus, and knew only the baptism of John (or but he only knew of the baptism by John). 
And this man began to do trustily in the synagogue. Whom when Priscilla and Aquila heard, they took him, and more diligently expounded to him the way of the Lord. 
And when he would go to Achaia, (the) brethren (were) excited, or (the) brethren admonished, or counselled, and wrote to the disciples, that they should receive him; which when he came, gave much to them that believed. 
For he greatly overcame (the) Jews, and showed openly by (the) scriptures, that Jesus is Christ (or that Jesus is the Messiah). 
