MATTHEW.
Chapter 24.
And Jesus went out of the temple; and his disciples came to him, to show him the buildings of the temple. 
But he answered, and said to them, See ye all these things? Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), a stone shall not be left on a stone/a stone shall not be left here on one stone, that not it shall be destroyed or which shall not be destroyed. 
And when he sat on the mount of Olives, his disciples came to him privily (or in private), and said, Say to us, when these things shall be, and what (is the) token (or the sign) of thy coming, and of the ending of the world. 
And Jesus answered, and said to them, Look ye or See ye, that no man deceive you. 
For many shall come in my name, and shall say, I am Christ (or I am the Messiah); and they shall deceive many. 
For ye shall hear battles, and opinions of battles; see ye that ye be not disturbed or that ye be not distroubled; for it behooveth these things to be done, but not yet is the end. 
For folk shall rise together against folk, and realm against realm, and pestilences, and hungers, and earth-movings shall be by places; (For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and plagues, and famines, and earthquakes shall be in places;) 
and all these be (but the) beginnings of (the) sorrows. 
Then men shall betake you into tribulation, and shall slay you, and ye shall be in hate or in hatred to all folks for my name. (Then men shall deliver you unto trials and troubles, and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated by all the nations and all the peoples, for my name’s sake.) 
And then many shall be caused to stumble, and betray each other, and they shall hate each other. 
And many false prophets shall rise, and deceive many. 
And for wickedness shall be plenteous, the charity of many shall wax cold (or the love of many shall grow cold); 
but he that shall dwell still or steadfast into the end, shall be safe. (but he who shall endure unto the end, shall be saved.) 
And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world, into witnessing to all folks; and then the end shall come. (And this Gospel, or Good News, of the Kingdom shall be preached in all the world, as a testimony to all the nations and all the peoples; and then the end shall come.) 
Therefore when ye see the abomination of discomfort, that is said of (or by) Daniel, the prophet, standing in the holy place; he that readeth (this), understand he; 
then they that be in Judea, flee to the mountains; 
and he that is in the house roof (or and he who is on the roof of the house), come not down to take anything (out) of his house; 
and he that is in the field, turn not again to take his coat (or do not return to get his coat). 
But woe to them that be with child, and nourishing or nursing in those days. 
Pray ye, that your flying be not made in winter, or in the sabbath. (Pray ye, that your fleeing be not made in winter, or on the Sabbath.) 
For then shall be great tribulation, what manner was not from the beginning of the world to now or till now, neither shall be made. 
And but those days had been abridged (or shortened), each flesh, or all flesh, that is, mankind, should not be made safe (or none of mankind could be saved); but those days shall be made short, for the chosen men. 
Then if any man say to you, Lo! here is Christ, or there, do not ye believe (him). (Then if anyone say to you, Behold! here is the Messiah, or there, do not believe them.) 
For false Christs and false prophets shall rise (up), (or For false Messiahs and false prophets shall rise up), and they shall give great tokens or great signs and wonders; so that also the chosen be led into error, if it may be done. 
Lo! I have before-said to you. 
Therefore if they say to you, Lo! he is in (the) desert, do not ye go out; lo! he is in privy places, (or behold! (he is) in private, or secret, places), do not ye believe (them). 
For as lightning goeth out from the east, and appeareth into the west, so shall be also the coming of man’s Son. 
Wherever the body shall be, also the eagles shall be gathered thither. 
And anon (or at once) after the tribulation of those days, the sun shall be made dark, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from (the) heaven(s), and the virtues (or the powers) of (the) heavens shall be moved or shall be stirred. 
And then the token of man’s Son shall appear in (the) heaven(s), and then all the kindreds, or all the lineages, (or all the tribes), of the earth shall wail; and they shall see man’s Son coming in the clouds of (the) heaven(s), with much virtue, and majesty. (And then the sign of man’s Son shall appear in the heavens, and then all the peoples of the earth shall wail; and they shall see man’s Son coming on the clouds of the heavens, with great power, and majesty.) 
And he shall send (out) his angels with a trumpet, and a great voice (or and a great blast); and they shall gather his chosen from (the) four winds, from the highest things of heaven (un)to the ends of them. 
And learn ye the parable of the fig tree. When his branch is now tender, and the leaves be sprung, ye know that summer is nigh, (or When its branch is now tender, and the leaves be sprung out, ye know that summer is near); 
and so ye when ye shall see all these things, know ye that it is nigh, (yea), in the gates, (or know that it is near, yes, even at the door). 
Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), for this generation shall not pass (away), till all (these) things be done; 
heaven and earth shall pass (away), but my words shall not pass (away). 
But of that day and hour no man knoweth, neither the angels of heaven, no but the Father alone (or but only the Father). 
But as it was in the days of Noe (or Noah), so shall be the coming of man’s Son. 
For as in the days before the great flood, they were eating and drinking, wedding and taking to wedding, till that day, that Noe (or Noah) entered into the ship; 
and they knew not, till the great flood came, and took (away) all men, so shall be the coming of man’s Son. 
Then twain shall be in a field, one shall be taken, and the other left; 
two women shall be grinding in a quern or (at a) mill, one shall be taken, and the other left; twain in a bed, the one shall be taken, and the other left. 
Therefore wake ye, (or And so be on watch, or stay awake), for ye know not in what hour the Lord shall come. 
But know ye this, that if the husbandman knew in what hour the thief were to come, certainly he would wake, and suffer not his house to be undermined (or and would not allow his house to be robbed). 
And therefore be ye ready, for in what hour ye guess not, man’s Son shall come. 
Who guessest thou is a true or is a faithful servant and prudent, whom his lord ordained on his household, to give them meat in (its) time? (Then who thinkest thou, is a faithful and a wise servant, whom his lord hath ordained upon, or over, his household, to give them their food at the proper time?) 
Blessed is that servant, whom his lord, when he shall come, shall find so doing. 
Truly I say to you, for on all his goods he shall ordain him. (I tell you the truth, that he shall put him in charge over all of his property.) 
But if that evil servant say in his heart, My lord tarrieth to come, 
and beginneth to smite his even-servants, and to eat, and drink with drunken men; 
the lord of that servant shall come in the day in which he hopeth not, and in the hour that he knoweth not, 
and shall part him (or and shall divide him in pieces), and put his part with (the) hypocrites; there shall be weeping, and grinding of teeth. 
