2ND TIMOTHY.
Chapter 3.
But know thou this thing, that in the last days perilous times shall nigh, (But know this, that in the Last Days perilous times shall approach,) 
and men shall be loving themselves, covetous, high of bearing, proud, blasphemers, not obedient to (their) father and mother, unkind, cursed, 
without affection, or good will, without peace, false blamers or false challengers, uncontinent, or unchaste, unmild, without benignity, 
traitors, over-thwart or froward, swollen or blownwith proud thoughts, blind, lovers of lusts more than of God, 
having the likeness of piety, but denying the virtue of it (or but denying its power). And eschew thou (or shun) these men. 
Of these they be that pierce houses, and lead women captives or and lead little women captive, charged (or burdened) with sins, which be led with diverse desires, 
(for)evermore learning, and never perfectly coming to the science, or to the cunning, (or to the knowing), of truth. (always learning, and never perfectly coming to the knowledge of the truth.) 
And as Jannes and Jambres against-stood Moses, so these against-stand the truth, men corrupt in understanding or in soul, reproved about the faith. 
But further they shall not profit, for the unwisdom of them shall be known to all men, as theirs was. 
But thou hast gotten my teaching or my doctrine, (or But thou hast received my teaching), ordinance, purposing or purpose, faith, long abiding, love, patience, 
persecutions, passions, which were made to me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra, what manner persecutions I suffered, and the Lord hath delivered me of all (or but the Lord hath delivered me from all of them). 
And all men that will live faithfully or piously in Christ Jesus, shall suffer persecution. (And all who will live faithfully, or piously, in the Messiah Jesus, shall suffer persecution.) 
But evil men and deceivers shall increase into worse, erring themselves, and sending others into error. 
But dwell thou in these things that thou hast learned, and that be betaken to thee, witting of whom thou hast learned (them); (But remain thou in these things that thou hast learned, and that be delivered to thee, knowing from whom thou hast learned them;) 
for thou hast known holy letters from thy youth, which may learn thee or which may inform thee to health, by (the) faith that is in Christ Jesus. (for thou hast known the holy Scriptures from thy youth, which can lead thee to salvation, through faith that is in the Messiah Jesus.) 
For all scripture inspired of (or by) God is profitable to teach, to reprove, to chastise, for to learn in rightwiseness, 
(so) that the man of God be perfect, learned to (do) all good work(s). 
