ROMANS.
Chapter 5.
Therefore we, justified of faith, have we peace at God by our Lord Jesus Christ. (And so we, justified by faith, let us have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.) 
By whom we have nigh going to or access, by faith into this grace, in which we stand, and have glory in the hope of the glory of God’s children. 
And not this only, but also we glory in tribulations, witting that tribulation worketh patience, (And not only this, but also we can boast, or we can rejoice, in trials and troubles, knowing that trouble worketh patience,) 
and patience proving, and proving hope. 
And hope confoundeth not, for the charity of God is spread abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, that is given to us. (And hope shameth not us, for the love of God is spread abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit, who is given to us.) 
And while that we were sick after the time, what died Christ for wicked men? (And while that we were frail or weak at the time, why did the Messiah die for wicked men?) 
For scarcely dieth any man for the just man or Soothly scarcely dieth any man for the just; and yet for a good man peradventure some man (might) dare die. 
But God commendeth his charity in us; for if when we were yet sinners, after the time Christ was dead for us, (But God showeth his love for us; for if when we were still sinners, at that time the Messiah died for us,) 
then much more now we justified in his blood, shall be safe from wrath by him. (then much more now we having been justified by his blood, shall be saved from God’s wrath, or from his righteous anger, through him.) 
For if when we were enemies, we be reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more we reconciled shall be safe in the life of him. (For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, then much more now we who be reconciled shall be saved by his life.) 
And not only this, but also we glory in God, (or but also we can boast, or we can rejoice, in God), by our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have received now reconciling. 
Therefore as by one man sin entered into this world, and by sin death, and so death passed forth into all men, in which man all men sinned. 
For unto the law sin was in the world; but sin was not reckoned, when the law was not. 
But death reigned from Adam unto Moses, also into them that sinned not in (the) likeness of the trespassing of Adam, the which is (the) likeness of Christ to coming, or the which is (the) form, or (the) likeness, of (the) one to come, (or who was the likeness of the Messiah to come). 
But not as the guilt or as the trespass, so the gift; for if through the guilt or through the trespass of one many be dead, much more the grace of God and the gift in the grace of one man Jesus Christ hath abounded into many men. 
And not as by one sin, so by the gift; for the doom, (or the judgement, or the sentence), of one into condemnation, but the (gift of) grace of (or over) many guilts or many trespassings into justification. 
For if in the guilt of one death reigned through one, much more men that take plenty of grace (or those who receive an abundance of grace), and of giving, and of rightwiseness, shall reign in life by one Jesus Christ. 
Therefore as by the guilt of one into all men into condemnation, so by the rightwiseness of one into all men into (the) justifying of life. 
For as by (the) unobedience of one man many be made sinners, so by the obedience of one many shall be ordained just. 
And the law entered, (so) that guilt should be plenteous; but where guilt was plenteous, grace was more plenteous or abounded. 
That as sin reigned into death, so grace reign by rightwiseness into everlasting life (or so grace reign by righteousness unto eternal life), by Jesus Christ our Lord. 
