LUKE.
Chapter 15.
And publicans and sinful men were nighing to him, to hear him. (And tax-collectors and sinners were coming near to him, to listen to him.) 
And the Pharisees and (the) scribes grudged, saying, For this man receiveth sinful men, and eateth with them. (And the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, For this man welcometh sinners, and eateth with them.) 
And he spake to them this parable, and said, 
What man of you that hath an hundred sheep, and if he hath lost one of them, whether he leaveth not ninety and nine in (the) desert, and goeth to it that perished, till he find it? (or and goeth after that which is lost, until he find it?) 
And when he hath found it, he joyeth, and layeth or putteth it on his shoulders; 
and he cometh home, and calleth together his friends and neighbours, and saith to them, Be ye glad with me, for I have found my sheep, that had perished or that I had lost. 
And I say to you, so joy shall be in heaven on one sinful man doing penance, more than on ninety and nine just, that have no need to penance or that have no need of penance. (And I tell you, there shall be more joy in heaven over one sinner repenting, than over ninety-nine righteous men, who have no need of repentance.) 
Or what woman having ten bezants or ten drachmas, and if she hath lost one bezant or one drachma, whether she tendeth not or she lighteth not a lantern, and turneth upside-down the house, and seeketh diligently, till she find it? 
And when she hath found (it), she calleth together (her) friends and neighbours, and saith, Be ye glad with me, for I have found the bezant or the drachma that I had lost. 
So I say to you, joy shall be before the angels of God on one sinful man doing penance. (So I tell you, there is joy among the angels of God over one sinner repenting.) 
And he said, A man had two sons; 
and the younger of them said to the father or and the younger said to his father, Father, give me the portion of (the) chattel or of (the) substance that falleth to me. And he parted to them the chattel or the substance, (or And he divided the goods between them). 
And not after many days, when all things were gathered together, the younger son went forth in pilgrimage into a far country; and there he wasted his goods or his substance in living lecherously. 
And after that he had ended all things, a strong hunger was made in that country, and he began to have need. 
And he went, and drew him(self) to one of the citizens of that country. And he sent him into his town, to feed swine, (or to feed his pigs), or (so) that he should feed hogs. 
And he coveted to fill his womb of the pods that the hogs ate, and no man gave (anything) to him. (And he desired to fill his belly with the pods which the pigs ate, but no one gave him anything to eat.) 
And he turned again to himself, and said, How many hired men in my father’s house have plenty of loaves; and I perish here through hunger. 
I shall rise up, and go to my father, and I shall say to him, Father, I have sinned (up) into heaven or I have sinned against heaven, and before thee; 
and now I am not worthy to be called thy son, make me as one of thine hired men. 
And he rose up, and came to his father. And when he was yet afar, his father saw him, and was stirred by mercy. And he ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. 
And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned (up) into heaven or I have sinned against heaven, and before thee; and now I am not worthy to be called thy son. 
And the father said to his servants, Swiftly bring ye forth the first stole, and clothe ye him, and give ye a ring in his hand (or and put a ring on his finger), and shoes on his feet; 
and bring ye a fat calf or and bring ye a calf made fat, and slay ye, and eat we, and make we feast. 
For this my son was dead, and hath lived again; he perished (or he was lost), and is found. And all men began to eat gladly. 
But his elder son was in the field; and when he came, and nighed to the house (or and approached the house), he heard a symphony and a crowd. 
And he called one of the servants, and asked, what these things were. 
And he said to him, Thy brother is come (home), and thy father slew a fat calf or and thy father hath slain a fatted calf, for he received him safe (again). 
And he was wroth, and would not come in. Therefore his father went out, and began to pray him (or And so his father went out to him, and began to beseech him). 
And he answered to his father, and said, Lo! so many years I serve thee, and I never brake thy commandment(s); and thou never gave to me a kid, that I with my friends should have eaten. 
But after that this thy son, that hath devoured his substance with whores, came, thou hast slain to him a fat calf or a fatted calf, (or thou hast killed a fatted calf for him). 
And he said to him, Son, thou art (for)evermore with me, (or Son, thou art always with me), and all my things be thine. 
But it behooved to make feast, and to have joy; for this thy brother was dead, and lived again or and liveth again; he perished, and is found, (or for thy brother was dead, but now he liveth again; he was lost, but now he is found). 
