LUKE.
Chapter 7.
And when he had fulfilled all his words into the ears of the people (or And when he had finished all his words to the people), he entered into Capernaum. 
But a servant of a centurion, that was precious to him, was sick, and drawing to the death. 
And when he had heard of Jesus, he sent to him the elder men of (the) Jews, and prayed him (or beseeched him), that he would come, and heal his servant. 
And when they came to Jesus, they prayed him busily (or they earnestly beseeched him), and said to him, For he is worthy, (so) that thou grant to him this thing; 
for he loveth our folk, and he builded to us a synagogue. (for he loveth our nation and our people, and he hath built a synagogue for us.) 
And Jesus went with them. And when he was not far from the house, the centurion sent to him (his) friends, and said, Lord, do not thou be travailed, (or And when he was not far from the house, the centurion sent his friends to him, and said, Lord, do not be troubled), for I am not worthy, that thou enter under my roof; 
for which thing I deemed not myself worthy, that I come to thee; but say thou by word, and my child shall be healed. (for that reason I judged myself not worthy, that I should come to thee; but say thou the word, and my servant shall be healed.) 
For I am a man ordained under power, and have knights under me (or and have soldiers under me); and I say to this, Go, and he goeth, and to another, Come, and he cometh, and to my servant, Do this thing, and he doeth it. 
And when this thing was heard, Jesus wondered; and he turned, and said to the people (pur)suing him, Truly I say to you, neither in Israel (have) I found so great faith, or not in Israel (have) I found so great faith, (or and he turned, and said to the people following him, I tell you the truth, I have not found such great faith in Israel). 
And they that were sent, turned again home, and found the servant whole, that was sick. (And they who were sent, returned home, and found the servant healed, who was sick.) 
And it was done afterward, Jesus went into a city, that is called Nain, and his disciples; and full great people went with him. +And it was done afterward Jesus went into a city, that is called Nain, and his disciples went with him, and a full great company of people. 
And when he came nigh to the gate of the city (or And when he came near to the city gate), lo! the son of a woman that had no more children, was borne out dead, or lo! an only son of his mother was borne out dead; and this was a widow; and much people of the city was with her. 
And when the Lord Jesus had seen her, he had ruth on her, or he (was) moved by mercy on her, (or he had compassion for her), and said to her, Do not thou weep. 
And he came nigh, and touched the bier; and they that bare the bier stood (there). And he said, Young man, I say to thee, rise up. 
And he that was dead sat up again or And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak; and he gave him (back) to his mother. 
And dread took all men (or And fearful reverence took hold of everyone), and they magnified God, and said, For a great prophet is risen among us, and, For God hath visited his people. 
And this word went out of him into all Judea (or And this story about him went out into all Judea), and into all the country(side) about. 
And John’s disciples told him of all these things. 
And John called twain of his disciples, and sent them to Jesus, and said, Art thou he that is to come, or abide we another? (or Art thou he who is to come, or do we wait for another?) 
And when the men came to him, they said, John (the) Baptist sent us to thee, and said, Art thou he that is to come, or (do) we abide another? 
And in that hour he healed many men of their sicknesses, and wounds, and of evil spirits (or and from evil spirits); and he gave sight to many blind men. 
And Jesus answered, and said to them, Go ye again, and tell ye to John those things that ye have heard and seen; blind men see, crooked men go, mesels be made clean, deaf men hear, dead men rise again, poor men be taken to preaching of the gospel, (or the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers be cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead rise again, the poor be taken to the preaching of the Gospel or the Good News). 
And he that shall not be caused to stumble in me, is blessed. 
And when the messengers of John were gone forth, he began to say of John to the people, What went ye out into (the) desert to see? a reed wagged with the wind? And when the messengers of John had gone away, he began to say of John to the companies, What went ye out into (the) desert to see? a reed waved with the wind? 
But what went ye out to see? a man clothed with soft clothes? Lo! they that be in a precious cloth, (or Behold! those who wear expensive clothing), and (be) in delights, be in kings’ houses. 
But what went ye out to see? a prophet? Yea, I say to you, and more than a prophet. 
This is he, of whom it is written, Lo! I send mine angel before thy face, which shall make ready thy way before thee. 
Certainly I say to you, there is no man a more prophet among the children of women, than is John (the) Baptist, or Soothly I say to you, among the children of women, no man is (a) more prophet (or is a greater prophet) than John (the) Baptist; but he that is less in the kingdom of heavens, is more than he. (Truly I say to you, or I tell you the truth, no man is a greater prophet among the children of women, than is John the Baptist; but whoever is the least in the Kingdom of Heaven, is greater than he.) 
And all the people hearing, and publicans (or and tax-collectors), that had been baptized with the baptism of John, justified God; 
but the Pharisees and the wise men of the law, that were not baptized of him, despised the counsel of God against themselves. (but the Pharisees and the men wise in the Law, who were not baptized by him, rejected God’s plan or purpose for themselves.) 
And the Lord said, Therefore to whom shall I say men of this generation like, and to whom be they like? 
They be like to children sitting in the chapping (or at the market), and speaking together, and saying, We have sung to you with pipes, and ye have not danced; we have made mourning or lamentation and ye have not wept. 
For John (the) Baptist came, neither eating bread, nor drinking wine, and ye say, He hath a fiend, (or He hath a devil, or a demon). 
Man’s Son came eating and drinking, and ye say, Lo! a man a devourer or a glutton, and drinking wine, a friend of publicans, and of sinful men, (or and ye say, Behold! a glutton, and a wine imbiber, a friend of tax-collectors, and of sinners). 
And wisdom is justified of all her sons. (And wisdom is justified by all of her sons.) 
But one of the Pharisees prayed Jesus, that he should eat with him. And he entered into the house of the Pharisee, and sat at the meat. (But one of the Pharisees beseeched Jesus, that he would eat with him. And so he entered into the house of the Pharisee, and sat down for the meal.) 
And lo! a sinful woman, that was in the city, as she knew, that Jesus sat at the meat (or sat down for a meal) in the house of the Pharisee, she brought an alabaster box of ointment; 
and she stood behind beside his feet, and began to moist(en) his feet with (her) tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed (them) with ointment. 
And the Pharisee seeing, that had called him, said within himself, saying, If this were a prophet, he should know, who and what manner woman it were that toucheth him, or If this were a prophet, soothly he should know, who and what manner woman it is that toucheth him, for she is a sinful woman. 
And Jesus answered, and said to him, Simon, I have something to say to thee. And he said, Master, say thou, (or Teacher, tell me). 
And he answered, Two debtors were to one lender; and one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty; 
but when they had not whereof to yield, he forgave freely to both. Who of them then loveth him more? 
Simon answered, and said, I guess, that he to whom he forgave more. And he answered to him, Thou hast deemed rightly (or Thou hast judged correctly). 
And he turned to the woman, and said to Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest no water to my feet (or thou gavest me no water for my feet); but this woman hath moist(en)ed my feet with (her) tears, and wiped (them) with her hairs. 
Thou hast not given to me a kiss; but this woman, since she entered or since I entered, ceased not to kiss my feet. 
Thou anointedest not mine head with oil; but this anointed my feet with ointment. 
For which thing I say to thee, many sins be forgiven to her, for she hath loved much; and to whom is less forgiven, he loveth less. 
And Jesus said to her, Thy sins be forgiven to thee. 
And they that sat together at the meat (or And they who sat together at the meal), began to say within themselves, Who is this that also, (or who even), forgiveth sins. 
But he said to the woman, Thy faith hath made thee safe; go thou in peace, (or Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace). 
