APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 20.
And I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key of (the) deepness, (or having the key of the depth, or of the abyss), and a great chain in his hand. 
And he caught the dragon, the old serpent, that is the Devil and Satan; and he bound him by a thousand years (or and he bound him for a thousand years). 
And he sent him into (the) deepness, and closed, and marked or sealed on him, that he deceive no more the folks, till a thousand years be ful filled, (or And he sent him into the depth, or into the abyss, and enclosed it, and sealed it over him, so that he would no longer deceive the nations and the peoples, until the thousand years were over). After these things it behooveth him to be unbound (for) a little time. 
And I saw seats, and they sat on them, and doom was given to them. And the souls of men beheaded for the witnessing of Jesus, and for the word of God, and them that worshipped not the beast, neither the image of it, neither took the character of it in their foreheads, neither in their hands. And they lived, and reigned with Christ (for) a thousand years. (And I saw thrones, and they who sat upon them, and judgement was given to them. And I saw the souls of men beheaded for their testimony about Jesus, and for the word of God, and those who did not worship the beast, or its image, nor received its mark on their foreheads, or on their hands. And they lived, and reigned with the Messiah for a thousand years.) 
And (the) others of (the) dead men lived not or The others of (the) dead lived not, till a thousand years were ended. This is the first again-rising. (And the others of the dead did not live, until the thousand years were over. This is the first resurrection.) 
Blessed and holy is he, that hath part in the first again-rising. In these men the second death hath not power or In these the second death hath no power; but they shall be priests of God, and of Christ, and they shall reign with him a thousand years, (or but they shall be the priests of God, and of the Messiah, and they shall reign with him for a thousand years). 
And when a thousand years shall be ended, Satan shall be unbound of his prison; (And when the thousand years shall be over, Satan shall be unbound from his prison;) 
and he shall go out, and shall deceive folks, that be on (the) four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog. And he shall gather them together into battle, whose number is as the gravel of the sea. (and he shall go out, and shall deceive the nations and the peoples, that be on the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog. And he shall gather them together into battle, whose number is like, or is as great as, the sand of the sea.) 
And they went up on the broadness of the earth, and environed the castles of (the) saints, and the (be)loved city. And fire came down of God from heaven, and devoured them. (And they ascended upon the broadness of the earth, and encompassed the camp of God’s people, and the beloved city. And fire from God came down from heaven, and devoured them.) 
And the devil, that deceived them, was sent into the pool of fire and brimstone, where both the beast and false prophets shall be tormented day and night, into (the) worlds of worlds. Amen. (And the Devil, who had deceived them, was sent into the pool of fire and brimstone, where both the beast and the false prophet shall be tormented day and night, forever and ever. Amen.) 
And I saw a great white throne, and one sitting on it, from whose sight (the) earth fled or flew away, and heaven, (or from whose sight the earth, and heaven, fled or flew away); and the place is not found of them. 
And I saw (the) dead men, great and small, standing in the sight of the throne; and (the) books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life; and dead men were deemed of these things that were written in the books, after the works of them. (And I saw the dead, great and small, standing in the sight of the throne; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the Book of Life; and the dead were judged by those things that were written in these books, according to their works.) 
And the sea gave (up) his dead men, that were in it; and death and hell gave (up) their dead, that were in them. And it was deemed of each, after the works of them. (And the sea gave up its dead, who were in it; and death and hell gave up their dead, who were in them. And everyone was judged, according to their works.) 
And hell and death were sent into the pool of fire. This is the second death. 
And he that was not found written in the book of life, was sent into the pool of fire. 
