ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 17.
God formed man (out) of (the) earth; and after his image he made man. 
And again he turned man into that image; and after himself he clothed him with virtue, (or with power, or strength). 
He gave to him the number of days, and (a short) time; and he gave to him power of (or over) those things that be on (the) earth. 
He setted or put the dread of man on all flesh, and he was lord of beasts and of flying birds or fowls. 
He formed of man an help like himself; 
he gave to them counsel, and tongue, and eyes, and ears, and heart to think out (things); and he filled them with the teaching or discipline of understanding. 
He made to them the cunning (or the knowing) of spirit, he filled the heart of them with wit (or understand-ing); and he showed to them evils and goods. 
He setted the eye of them (or He set his eye) on the hearts of them, to show to them the great things of his works, (so) that they praise (al)to-gether the name of hallowing; 
and to have glory in his marvels or to glory in the marvellous things of him, (so) that they tell out the great things of his works. 
(This verse is omitted in the original text.) 
He added to them teaching; and he inherited them with the law of life. 
He ordained an everlasting testament (or covenant) with them; and he showed to them his rightfulness, and dooms. 
And the eye(s) of them saw the great things of his honour, and the ears of them heard the honour of (his) voice; 
and he said to them, Take heed to you from all wicked thing. And he commanded to them, to each man of his neighbour. 
The ways of them be ever before him; those or they be not hid from his eyes. 
(This verse is omitted in the original text.) 
On each folk he made sovereign a governor; and Israel was made the open part of God. 
(This verse is omitted in the original text.) 
And all the works of them be as the sun in the sight of God; and his eyes behold without ceasing in (or on) the ways of them. 
Testaments were not hid from the wickedness of them; and all the wickednesses of them were in the sight of God. 
(This verse is omitted in the original text.) 
The alms of a man is as a bag or a little sack with him, and it shall keep the grace of a man as the apple of the eye; 
and afterward man shall rise again, and it shall yield to them a yielding, to each man into (or onto) the head of them; and (it) shall (re)turn into the lower parts of (the) earth. 
Forsooth it gave to men repenting the way of rightfulness or rightwise-ness, and confirmed men failing to suffer, and ordained to them the part of truth. 
(Re)turn thou to the Lord, and forsake thy sins; pray thou before the face of the Lord, and make thou less hurtings or the occasions of guilts. 
Turn thou again to the Lord, and turn thou away from thine unrightful-ness or unrightwiseness, and hate thou greatly cursing, that is, cursed sin. 
And know thou the rightfulnesses or rightwisenesses, and (the) dooms of God; and stand thou in the part of good purpose, and of prayer of (or to) the highest God. Go thou into the parts of the holy world, with men living or with men alive, and giving acknowledging to God. 
Dwell thou not in the error of wicked men. Acknowledge thou before death; acknowledging or confession perisheth from a dead man, as nothing. Living thou shalt acknowl-edge, living and whole thou shalt acknowledge, and shalt praise God; and thou shalt have glory in the merciful doings of him. 
The mercy of God is full great, and his help to them that convert to him. How great the mercy of God, and the mitigation, or help, of him to men converting to him. 
For why not all things may be or be able to be in men; for why the son of man is not undeadly (or immortal), and malices pleased into vanity. 
What is clearer or more clear than the sun? and this shall fail; either or what is worse than that, that flesh and blood thought out? and of this he shall be reproved. 
He beholdeth the virtue of the highness of heaven; and all men be(but) earth and ashes. 
