DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 25.
Therefore when Festus came into the province, after the third day he went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea. 
And the princes of (the) priests, and the worthiest or the first of the Jews went to him against Paul, and prayed him, (And the high priests, and the leaders of the Jews went before him against Paul, and beseeched him,) 
and asked grace against him, that he should command him to be led to Jerusalem; and they set ambush to slay him in the way (or and they prepared to kill him on the way). 
But Festus answered, that Paul should be kept in Caesarea; soothly that he himself should proceed more advisedly or more hastily. 
Therefore he said, They that in you (who) be mighty, come down together; and if any crime is in the man (or and if the man hath done any crime), accuse they him. 
And he dwelled among them no more than eight either ten days, and came down to Caesarea; and the tother day he sat for doomsman (or and the next day he sat as judge), and commanded Paul to be brought (to him). 
And when he was brought forth, (the) Jews stood about him, which came down from Jerusalem, putting against him many and grievous causes, which they might not prove. (And when he was brought forth, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem, stood about him, making many serious charges against him, that they could not prove.) 
For Paul yielded reason in all things, (saying), That neither against the law of (the) Jews, neither against the temple, neither against the emperor or neither against Caesar, I sinned anything. 
But Festus would do grace to the Jews or Forsooth Festus (was) willing to give grace to the Jews, and answered to Paul, and said, Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be deemed of these things before me? (or and be judged about these things before me there?) 
And Paul said, At the doom place of the emperor I stand or At the doom place of Caesar I stand, where it behooveth me to be deemed, (or And Paul said, I stand now at the Emperor’s seat of judgement or the court, where it behooveth me to be judged). I have not annoyed (or harmed) the Jews, as thou knowest well. 
For if I have annoyed (or harmed), either done anything worthy (of) death, I forsake not to die; but if nothing of those is, that they accuse me (of), no man may give me to them. I appeal to the emperor or I appeal to Caesar. 
Then Festus spake with the council, and answered, (or Then Festus spoke with the Council, and said), To the emperor thou hast appealed, to the emperor thou shalt go, or To Caesar thou hast appealed, to Caesar thou shalt go. 
And when some days were passed, Agrippa king (or King Agrippa), and Bernice came down to Caesarea, to welcome or to greet Festus. 
And when they dwelled there many days, Festus showed to the king of Paul, and said, A man is left bound of Felix, (And after they had been there for many days, Festus told the king about Paul, and said, There is a man left here in bondage by Felix,) 
of which, when I was at Jerusalem, (the) princes of (the) priests, and the elder men of the Jews came to me, and asked damnation against him. (of whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the high priests, and the elders of the Jews came to me, and asked for condemnation against him.) 
To whom I answered, That it is not custom to Romans, to damn any man, (or It is not the Roman custom, to condemn any man), before that he that is accused have his accusers present, and take (the) place of defending, to put away the crimes, that be put against him. 
Therefore when they came together hither, without any delay, in the day (pur)suing I sat for doomsman (or on the following day I sat as judge), and commanded the man to be brought. 
And when his accusers stood nigh, they said no cause of which things I had suspicion of evil. (And when his accusers stood here before me, they made no case in which I found any suspicion of wrong-doing.) 
But they had against him some questions of their vain worshipping, or (their futile) religion, and of one Jesus (who was) dead, whom Paul affirmed to live. 
And I doubted of such manner questions, and said, Whether he would go to Jerusalem, and there be deemed of these things? (And I was uncertain about such matters, and asked, Would he go to Jerusalem, and be judged on these matters there?) 
But for Paul appealed, that he should be kept to the knowing of the emperor (or of Caesar), I commanded him to be kept, till I send him to the emperor or till I shall send him to Caesar. (But because Paul appealed, that he should be sent to the Emperor for judgement, or for a decision, or for sentencing, I commanded him to be kept under guard, until I could send him to the Emperor.) 
And Agrippa said to Festus, I myself would (like to) hear the man. And he said, Tomorrow thou shalt hear him. 
And on the tother day (or And on the next day), when Agrippa and Bernice came with great desire, or (with much) pride of state, and entered into the auditorium, with tribunes and the principal men of the city, when Festus bade, Paul was brought (in). 
And Festus said, King Agrippa, and all men that be with us, ye see this man, of which all the multitude of Jews prayed me at Jerusalem, and asked, and cried, that he should live no longer. (And Festus said, King Agrippa, and all those who be with us, ye see this man, about whom all the multitude of the Jews at Jerusalem beseeched me, and asked, and cried, that he should no longer live.) 
But I found, that he had done nothing worthy of death; and I deemed to send him to the emperor (or and I decided to send him to Caesar), for he appealed this thing, or soothly him appealing this thing to the emperor, I deemed to send (him to him). 
Of which man I have (it) not certain, what thing I shall write to the lord. For which thing I (have) brought him to you, and most(ly) to thee, thou king Agrippa or O king Agrippa, that when asking is made (or so that after he is questioned), I have what I shall write. 
For it is seen to me without reason, to send a bound man, and not to signify the cause of him, (or and not to specify his case, or the charges, against him). 
