1ST TIMOTHY.
Chapter 3.
A faithful word I shall say. If any man desireth a bishopric, he desireth a good work. 
Therefore it behooveth a bishop to be without reproof, the husband of one wife, sober, prudent, chaste, virtuous, holding hospitality, a teacher; 
not given much to wine, not a smiter, but temperate or patient, not full of chiding or full of strife, not covetous, 
well-ruling his house, and have sons subject with all chastity; 
for if any man know not how to govern his house, how shall he have (the) diligence or the keeping of the church of God? 
not new(ly) converted to the faith, lest he be borne up into pride, and fall into the doom of the devil. (not newly converted to the faith, lest he be raised up into pride, and then fall into the judgement of the Devil, or and then fall down under the same condemnation as the Devil.) 
For it behooveth him to have also good witnessing of them that be withoutforth (or And it behooveth him to have good testimony from those who be outside the church), (so) that he fall not into reproof, and into the snare of the devil. 
Also it behooveth deacons to be chaste, not double-tongued, not given much to wine or not given to much wine, not following foul winning; 
that have the mystery of faith in clean conscience. (who hold to the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience.) 
But be they proved first, and minister they so, having no crime, or great sin. 
Also it behooveth women to be chaste, not backbiting, sober, faithful in all things. 
Deacons be husbands of one wife; which govern well their sons and their houses. 
For they that minister well, shall get a good degree to themselves, and much trust in the faith, that is in Christ Jesus (or that is in the Messiah Jesus). 
Son Timothy, I write to thee these things, hoping that I shall come soon to thee; 
but if I tarry, that thou knowest, how it behooveth thee to live in the house of God, that is the church of (the) living God, (as) a pillar and (a) firmness of (the) truth. 
And openly it is a great sacrament of piety, that thing that was showed in (the) flesh, it is justified in (the) Spirit, it appeared to angels, it is preached to heathen men, it is believed in the world, it is taken up into glory. 
