1ST PETER.
Chapter 3.
Also women be they subject to their husbands; that if any man, that is, (their)husbands, believe not to the word, by the conversation of women they (shall) be won without (any) word(s). (And women should be subject to their husbands; so that if their husbands do not believe the word of God, by the way their women live these men shall be won without any words.) 
And behold ye in dread your holy conversation. (And so, ye women, watch over your pure way of living, with a fear of losing it.) 
Of whom be there not withoutforth curious adorning of hair, either doing about of gold, either adorning of clothing; 
but that that is the hid man of (the) heart, in uncorruption, and of mild spirit, or in (the) uncorruptibility of (a) quiet and mild spirit, which is rich in the sight of God. (but within, yea, hidden in the heart, and with a meek and a humble spirit, which is rich before God.) 
For so sometime holy women hoping in God adorned themselves, and were subject to their own husbands. 
As Sara(h) obeyed to Abraham, and called him lord; of whom ye be daughters well-doing, and not dreading any perturbation. 
Also men dwell together, and by cunning, (or knowing), or science, give ye honour to the woman’s frailty, or to her vessel, (or to her body), as to the more feeble, and as to even-heirs of grace and of life, (so) that your prayers be not hindered. 
And in faith all of one will (or of one intention), in prayer be ye each suffering with (the) other, lovers of (the) brotherhood, merciful, mild (or humble), meek; Forsooth in faith all of one understanding, or will, in prayer be ye compassionate, or each suffering with (the) other, lovers of (the) fraternity, merciful, mild, meek; 
not yielding evil for evil, neither cursing for cursing, but on the contrary blessing; for in this thing ye be called, that ye wield blessing by heritage (or so that ye can possess the blessing by inheritance). 
For he that will love life, and see good days, constrain his tongue from evil, and his lips, that they speak not guile, or that they speak no guile, (or so that they do not speak lies). 
And bow he (away) from evil, and do good; seek he peace, and perfectly follow it. 
For the eyes of the Lord be on just men, and his ears on the prayers of them; but the cheer or the face of the Lord is on men that do evils. 
And who is it that shall annoy you, if ye be (pur)suers and lovers of goodness? And who is it that shall annoy to you, if ye shall be good (pur)suers?(And who is it that shall harm you, if ye be followers and lovers of goodness, or if ye pursue after that which is good?) 
But also if ye suffer anything for rightwiseness, ye be blessed; but dread ye not the dread of them (or but do not fear them), (so) that ye be not disturbed or distroubled. 
But hallow ye the Lord Christ in your hearts, and evermore be ye ready to do satisfaction to each man asking you (for the) reason of that faith and hope that is in you, but with mildness, and dread, (But consecrate the Lord Messiah in your hearts, and always be ye ready to give satisfaction to each man asking you for the reason for the faith and hope that is in you, but with meekness and humility, and fearful reverence,) 
having good conscience; that in that thing that they backbite of you, they be confounded, which challenge falsely your good conversation in Christ. (having a clear conscience; so that for that thing in which they slander you, they shall be ashamed, yea, they who defame your pure life in the Messiah.) 
For it is better that ye do well, and suffer, if the will of God will, than doing evil. Soothly it is better, if the will of God will, ye well-doing, to suffer, than evil-doing.(For it is better that ye do good, and suffer, if it be God’s will, than to do evil.) 
For also Christ once died for our sins, he (the) just for (the) unjust, that he should offer to God us or that he should offer us to God, made dead in (the) flesh, but made quick in (the) Spirit. (For also the Messiah once died for our sins, or For the Messiah also died for our sins once and for all, he the righteous for the unrighteous, so that he could offer us to God, made dead in the flesh, but made alive in the Spirit.) 
For which thing he came in (the) Spirit, and also to them that were (en)closed together in prison; 
which were sometime unbelieveful, when they abided the patience of God in the days of Noe (or of Noah), when the ship or the ark was made, in which a few, that is to say, eight souls were made safe by water (or eight lives were saved through water). 
And so baptism of like form maketh us safe; not the putting away of the filths of (the) flesh, but the asking of a good conscience in God, by the again-rising of our Lord Jesus Christ, (And so a baptism of like form saveth us; not the putting away of the filths of the flesh, but the asking by a good conscience to God, through the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ,) 
that is in the right half of God, and swalloweth death, that we should be made heirs of everlasting life, (or who is at the right hand, or on the right side, of God, and swalloweth death, so that we can be made heirs of eternal life). He went into heaven, and angels, and powers, and virtues (or authorities) be made subject to him. 
