PHILIPPIANS.
Chapter 2.
Therefore if any comfort is in Christ, if any solace of charity, (or And so if there is any comfort in the Messiah, if any consolation of love), if any fellowship of (the) Spirit, if any inwardness of mercy doing, 
ful fill ye my joy, that ye understand the same thing, and have the same charity, of one will, and feel the same thing; (fulfill my joy, in that ye understand the same thing, have the same love, be of one will, and of one purpose;) 
nothing doing by strife, neither by vain glory, but in meekness, deeming each other to be higher in virtue than himself; (doing nothing by contention, nor by conceit, but in humility, judging others to be of greater virtue than thyself;) 
not beholding each by himself what things be his own, but those things that be of other men. 
And feel ye this thing in you, which was also in Christ Jesus; (Have the same attitude in you, which was also in the Messiah Jesus;) 
which when he was in the form of God, deemed (it) not raven, that himself were even to God, or deemed (it) not raven, himself to be even to God, (who when he was in the form of God, reckoned it not robbery, that although he was equal to God,) 
but he lowed or he meeked himself (or but he humbled himself), taking the form of a servant, and was made into the likeness of men, 
and in habit was found as a man. He meeked himself, and was made obedient to the death, yea, to the death of the cross. (and in appearance was found as a man. He humbled himself, and was obedient unto death, yea, unto his death on the cross.) 
For which thing God enhanced him (or For which thing God exalted him), and gave to him a name that is above all name(s); 
that in the name of Jesus each knee be bowed (or so that at the name of Jesus every knee shall be bowed), of heavenly things, and of earthly things, and of hell’s; 
and each tongue (shall) acknowledge, that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father. 
Therefore, my most dearworthy brethren, as (for)evermore ye have obeyed, not in my presence only, but much more now in mine absence, work ye with dread and trembling your health. (And so, my most dearworthy brothers, as ye have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but much more now in my absence, work out your own salvation with fearful reverence and trembling.) 
For it is God that worketh in you, both to will, and to perform, for good will. (For it is God who worketh in you, both to desire, and to perform, for his own good purpose.) 
And do ye all things without grudgings (or grumblings), and doubtings; 
that ye be without (com)plaint, and simple as the sons of God, without reproof, in the middle of a shrewd nation and a wayward (one); among which ye shine as (the) givers of light in the world. (so that ye be without fault, and sincere as the sons of God, yea, without reproach, in the midst of a depraved and a wicked nation; among whom ye shine as the givers of light in the world.) 
And hold ye together the word of life to my glory in the day of Christ; for I have not run in vain, neither I have travailed in vain. (And hold on firmly to the Word of Life unto my glory, or to be my boasting, on the Day of the Messiah; and thus show that I have not run in vain, nor have I laboured in vain.) 
But though I be offered or slain on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I have joy, and I thank you all (or and I thank all of you). 
And for the same thing have ye joy, and together thank ye me. 
And I hope in the Lord Jesus, that I shall send Timothy soon to you, (so) that I (may) be of good comfort, when those things be known that be about you. 
For I have no man so of one will, that is (so) busy for you with clean affection. 
For all men seek those things that be their own, not those that be of Christ Jesus (or not those things that be of the Messiah Jesus). 
But know ye the assay of him, for as a son to the father he hath served with me in the gospel. 
Therefore I hope that I shall send him to you, anon as I see what things be about me. (And so I hope that I shall send him to you, as soon as I see what things be about me here.) 
And I trust in the Lord, that also myself shall come to you soon. 
And I guessed it needful to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and even-worker, and mine even-knight, (or my brother and fellow worker, and my fellow soldier), but your apostle, and the minister of my need(s). 
For he desired you all, and he was sorrowful, therefore that ye heard that he was sick. 
For he was sick to the death, but God had mercy on him; and not only on him, but also on me, lest I had heaviness on heaviness. 
Therefore more hastily I sent him, (so) that when ye have seen him, ye have joy again, and I be without heaviness. 
Therefore receive ye him with all joy in the Lord, and have ye such with all honour. 
For the work of Christ he went to (the) death, giving his life, that he should fulfill that that failed of you with my service. (For the work of the Messiah he went unto death, giving his life, so that he could do for me, or so that he could fulfill for me, that service which you could not do.) 
