1ST PETER.
Chapter 4.
Therefore for Christ suffered in (the) flesh (or And so because the Messiah suffered in the flesh), be ye also armed by the same thinking; for he that suffered in (the) flesh ceased from sins, 
that that is left now of (the) time in (the) flesh live not now to the desires of men, but to the will of God. 
For the time that is passed is enough to the will of (the) heathen men to be ended, which walked in lecheries, and lusts, in much drinking of wine, in unmeasurable or oft eatings, and drinkings, and unleaveful worshipping of maumets or of idols. (For the time that is passed was enough for the desires of the Gentiles to be done, or to be finished, yea, they who lived, or went, in lecheries, and lusts, in much drinking of wine, in immeasurable or oft eatings, and drinkings, and unlawful worshipping of idols.) 
In which now they be astonied (or astonished), in which thing they wonder (about), for ye run not together (with them) into the same confusion of lechery, and (so they) blaspheme (thee), (or and so they insult thee, or they vilify thee). 
And they shall give reason to him, that is ready to deem the quick and the dead. (But soon they shall have to give an answer to him, who is ready to judge the living and the dead.) 
For why for this thing it is preached or it is evangelized also to dead men, that they be deemed by men in (the) flesh, and that they live by God in (the) Spirit. 
For the end of all things shall nigh. Therefore be ye prudent, and wake ye in prayers; (For the end of everything shall approach or it is near. And so be prudent, and be on watch, keep praying;) 
before all things have ye charity each to (the) other in yourselves always lasting; for charity covereth the multitude of sins. (above all, love one another always and earnestly; for love covereth a multitude of sins.) 
Hold ye hospitality together without grudging; (Have hospitality toward one another without grumbling;) 
each man as he hath received grace, ministering it into each other, or ministering each to (the) other, (or serving one another), as good dispensers of the manifold grace of God. 
If any man speaketh, speak he as the words of God; if any man ministereth, as of the virtue which God ministereth; (so) that God be honoured in all things by Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom is glory and lordship into worlds of worlds. Amen. (If anyone speaketh, (speak he) with the words of God; if anyone serveth, (serve he) with the strength which God supplieth; so that God be honoured in all things by Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom is glory and lordship forever and ever. Amen.) 
Most dear brethren, do not ye go in pilgrimage in fervour, that is made to you to temptation (or that is made to test you), as if any new thing befall to you; 
but commune ye with the passions of Christ, and have ye joy, (or but share in the sufferings of the Messiah, and rejoice), (so) that also ye be glad, and have joy in the revelation of his glory. 
If ye be despised for the name of Christ, ye shall be blessed; for that that is of the honour, and of the glory, and of the virtue of God, and the Spirit that is his, shall rest on you. (If ye be despised for the name of the Messiah, ye shall be blessed; for that that is of the honour, and of the glory, and of the power of God, and the Spirit that is his, shall rest upon you.) 
But no man of you suffer as a manslayer, either a thief, either curser, either a desirer of other men’s goods or of other men’s things; 
but if he suffer as a christian man, shame he not (or be he not ashamed), but glorify he God in this name. 
For (the) time is, that doom begin at God’s house; and if it begin first at us, what end shall be of them, that believe not to the gospel? (For it is now the time that judgement begin at God’s household; and if (it begin) first with us, what end (shall be) for those, who do not believe the Gospel or the Good News?) 
And if a just man scarcely shall be saved, where shall the unfaithful man and the sinner appear? 
Therefore and they that suffer by the will of God, betake their souls in good deeds to the faithful Maker of nought. (And so let them who suffer by God’s will, deliver their souls through good deeds unto the faithful Maker of everything out of nothing.) 
