PHILIPPIANS.
Chapter 3.
Henceforward, my brethren, have ye joy in the Lord. To write to you the same things, to me it is not slow, and to you it is necessary. 
See ye hounds, see ye evil workmen, see ye division or concision. 
For we be (the) circumcision, which by (the) Spirit serve to God, and glory in Christ Jesus, (or who by the Spirit serve God, and glory in, or boast about, the Messiah Jesus), and have not trust in the flesh, 
though I have trust, yea, in the flesh. If any other man is seen to trust in the flesh, I more, 
that was circumcised in the eighth day, of the kin or of the kindred of Israel, of the lineage of Benjamin, an Hebrew of Hebrews, by the law a Pharisee, (who was circumcised on the eighth day, of the kindred of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, a Pharisee by the Law,) 
by love pursuing the church of God, by rightwiseness that is in the law living without (com)plaint. (zealously persecuting God’s church, by the righteousness that is in the Law living without any fault.) 
But which things were to me winnings, I have deemed these impairings for Christ. (And those things which were to me winnings, now I have judged to be losses because of the Messiah.) 
Nevertheless I guess all things to be impairment for the clear science (or for the glorious knowledge) of Jesus Christ my Lord. For whom I made all things impairment, and I deem as drit or as turds, that I win Christ (or so that I may win the Messiah), 
and that I be found in him, not having my rightwiseness that is of the law, but that that is of the faith of Christ Jesus, that is of God the rightwiseness in faith, (and that I be found in him, not having my righteousness that is from the Law, but the righteousness that is from faith in the Messiah Jesus, which is the righteousness from God through faith,) 
to know him, and the virtue of his rising again, and the fellowship of his passion, and to be made like or (to be) configured to his death, (to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the sharing of his suffering, and to be made like him in his death,) 
if on any manner (or in any manner) I come to the resurrection that is from death. +if on any manner I shall come to the resurrection that is of (the) dead. 
Not that now I have taken (hold of it), or now I am perfect; but I (pur)sue, if in any manner I comprehend or I take (hold of) in which thing also I am comprehended of Jesus Christ. (Not that now I have caught it, or that now I am perfect, or am completed; but I continue to pursue it, if by any means I can catch hold of that for which also I am caught by Jesus Christ.) 
Brethren, I deem me not that I have comprehended, (or Brothers, I do not reckon that I have taken hold of it, or that I have caught it); but one thing, I forget those things that be behind, and stretching forth myself to those things that be before, 
and pursue to the ordained meed or to the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. (and pursue toward the ordained prize of the high calling of God in the Messiah Jesus.) 
Therefore whoever we be perfect, feel we this thing. And if ye understand in other manner anything, this thing God shall show to you. 
Nevertheless to what thing we have come, (so) that we understand the same thing, and that we perfectly dwell in the same rule. 
Brethren, be ye my followers, and wait ye (on) them that walk so, as ye have our form. (Brothers, follow me, and watch those who walk so, so that ye have our form.) 
For many walk, which I have said oft to you, but now I weeping say, them, the enemies of Christ’s cross (or the enemies of the Messiah’s cross), 
whose end is death, whose god is the womb, and the glory in the confusion of them, that savour or that understand earthly things. 
But our living is in (the) heavens or Forsooth our living is in heaven; from whence also we abide (or we wait for) the Saviour our Lord Jesus Christ, 
which shall reform the body of our meekness, that is made like or (that is) configured to the body of his clearness (or of his glory), by the working by which he may also make all things subject to him. 
