APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 18.
And after these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great power; and the earth was lightened or was lighted of his glory (or by his glory). 
And he cried with a strong voice, saying, Great Babylon felled down, felled down, and is made the habitation of devils, and the keeping of each unclean spirit, and the keeping of each unclean fowl, and hateful. (And he cried with a loud voice, saying, The great Babylon fell down, fell down, and it is made the habitation of demons, and the domicile of every unclean spirit, and the home of every unclean and hateful, or loathsome, bird.) 
For all folks drunk of the wrath of the fornication of her, and kings of the earth, and merchants of the earth, did fornication with her; and they be made rich of the virtue of the delights of her. (For all the nations and all the peoples have drunk of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth, and the merchants of the earth, did fornication with her; and they be made rich from the abundance of her delights.) 
And I heard another voice of heaven, saying, My people, go ye out of it, and be ye not partners of the trespasses of it, and ye shall not receive of the wounds of it or of the plagues of it. (And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, My people, go out of it, and do not be made the partners of its trespasses, and then ye shall not share in its plagues, or its torments.) 
For the sins of it came unto heaven, and the Lord had mind of the wickedness(es) of it. (For its sins came unto heaven, and the Lord remembered its wickednesses.) 
Yield ye to it, as she yielded to you; and double ye double things, after her works; in the drink that she meddled to you, meddle or mingle ye double to her, (or of the drink which she mixed for you, mix ye double for her). 
As much as she glorified herself, and was in delights, so much torment give ye to her, and wailing, or weeping, or mourning; for in her heart she saith, I sit a queen, and I am not a widow, and I shall not see wailing, or weeping, or mourning. 
And therefore in one day her wounds or her plagues shall come, death, and mourning, and hunger; and she shall be burnt in (the) fire, for God is strong, that shall deem her, (or for God is strong, who shall judge her). 
And the kings of the earth shall beweep, and bewail themselves on her (or and bewail themselves over her), which did fornication with her, and lived in delights, when they shall see the smoke of the burning of it; 
standing afar, for dread of the torments of it, saying, Woe! woe! that great city Babylon, and that strong city; for in one hour thy doom cometh. (standing afar, for fear of its torments, saying, Woe! woe! that great city Babylon, and that strong city; for in one hour thy judgement cometh.) 
And merchants of the earth shall weep on it, and mourn, for no man shall buy more the merchandise of them; (And the merchants of the earth shall weep over it, and mourn, for no one shall buy their merchandise any more;) 
the merchandise of gold, and of silver, and of precious stone(s), and of pearl(s), and of bis, (or and of bisso, or fine linen), and of purple, and of silk, and of cotton, and of each tree thyine, and all vessels of ivory, and all vessels of precious stone(s), and of brass, and of iron, and of marble. 
and of cinnamon, and of sweet smelling things, and ointments, and of incense, and of wine, and of oil, and of flour, and of wheat, and of work beasts, and of sheep, and of horses, and of chariots, and of servants, and of other lives of men. 
And thine apples of the desire of thy life, or And thine apples, the desires of thy life, went away from thee, and all fatted things, and full clear (or truly glorious) perished away from thee. 
And (the) merchants of these things shall no more find those things or these goods. They that be made rich of it, shall stand a far (off), for dread of (the) torments of it (or for fear of its torments), weeping, and mourning, 
and saying, Woe! woe! that great city, that was clothed with bis, (or which was clothed in bisso, or fine linen), and purple, and red scarlet, and was over-gilded with gold, and precious stone(s), and margarites (or pearls), 
for in one hour so many riches be destitute, either done away. And each governor, and all that sail by ship into place(s), and mariners, and they that work in the sea, stood (a)far (off), 
and cried, seeing the place of the burning of it, saying, What cityis like this great city? 
And they cast powder on their heads, and cried, weeping, and mourning, and saying, Woe! woe! that great city, in which all that have ships in the sea be made rich of the prices of it; for in one hour it is desolate. 
Heaven, and holy apostles, and prophets, make ye full out joy on it, for God hath deemed your doom on it. (Heaven, and the holy apostles, and the prophets, rejoice over it, for God hath taken vengeance upon it for you.) 
And one strong angel took up a stone, as a great millstone, and cast (it) into the sea, and said, In this force or In this fierceness that great city Babylon shall be sent, and now it shall no more be found. 
And the voice of harps (or And the sound of harps), and of men of music, and singing with pipe and trump, shall no more be heard in it. And each craftsman, and each craft, shall no more be found in it. And the voice of a millstone shall no more be heard in thee (or And the sound of a millstone shall no more be heard in thee), 
and the light of the lantern shall no more shine in thee, and the voice of the husband and of the wife shall no more be heard in thee; for thy merchants were (the) princes of the earth. For in thy witchcrafts all folks erred (or For all the nations and all the peoples went astray in thy witchcrafts). 
And the blood of (the) prophets and of (the) saints is found in it, and of all men that be slain in (the) earth. (And the blood of the prophets and of God’s people is found in it, yea, the blood of all those who were killed on the earth.) 
