DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 9.
But Saul, yet a blower or a breather of menaces, and of beatings, or slaying(s), against the disciples of the Lord, came to the prince of (the) priests, (But Saul, still a breather of threats, and killings, against the disciples of the Lord, came to the High Priest,) 
and asked of (or from) him letters into Damascus, to the synagogues; that if he found any men or women of this life, he should lead them bound (back) to Jerusalem. 
And when he made his journey, it befelled, that he came nigh to Damascus. And suddenly a light from heaven shone about him; 
and he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, what pursuest thou me? (or Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?) 
And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou pursuest. It is hard to thee, to kick against the prick. (And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest. It is hard for thee, to kick against the prod.) 
And he trembled, and wondered, and said, Lord, what wilt thou that I do? And the Lord said to him, Rise up, and enter into the city, and it shall be said to thee, what it behooveth thee to do. 
And those men that went with him, stood astonied, (or astonished), or were made afeared, or out of mind; for they heard a voice, but they saw no man. 
And Saul rose from the earth; and when his eyes were opened, he saw nothing. And they drew him by the hands, and led him into Damascus. 
And he was three days not seeing; and he ate not, neither drank. 
And a disciple, Ananias by name, was at Damascus. And the Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Lo! I, Lord. 
And the Lord said to him, Rise thou, and go into a street that is called Rectus; and seek, in the house of Judas, Saul by name, of Tarsus. For lo! he prayeth; 
and he saw a man, Ananias by name, entering and laying on him hands, that he receive sight (or so that he can see again). 
And Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard of many of this man, how great evil he did to thy saints in Jerusalem; (And Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard about this man from many people, what great evil he did to God’s people in Jerusalem;) 
and this hath power of the princes of (the) priests, to bind all men that call thy name to help. (and he hath received authority from the high priests, to bind up, or to take captive, all who call on thy name for help.) 
And the Lord said to him, Go thou, for this is to me a vessel of choosing, that he bear my name before heathen men, and kings, and before the sons of Israel. (And the Lord said to him, Go, for he is a vessel that I have chosen, to bring my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and before the Israelites.) 
For I shall show to him, how great things it behooveth him to suffer for my name. 
And Ananias went, and entered into the house; and laid on him his hands, and said, Saul brother, the Lord Jesus sent me, that appeared to thee in the way, in which thou camest, that thou see, and be full-filled with the Holy Ghost, (or Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus sent me, who appeared to thee on the way, in which thou camest, so that thou may see again, and be filled with the Holy Spirit). 
And anon as the scales felled from his eyes (or And at once as the scales fell from his eyes), he received (his) sight (again). And he (a)rose, and was baptized. 
And when he had taken meat, he was comforted, (or And when he had eaten some food, he was strengthened). And he was by some days with the disciples, that were at (or in) Damascus. 
And anon, he entered into the synagogues, (or And at once, he went to the synagogues), and preached (about) the Lord Jesus, for this is the Son of God. 
And all men that heard him, wondered, and said, Whether this is not he that impugned in Jerusalem them that called to help this name? and hither he came for this thing or and hither for this thing he came, that he should lead them bound (back) to the princes of (the) priests? (And everyone who heard him, wondered, and said, Is this not he who attacked those in Jerusalem who called on this name for help? and did he not come here for this purpose, that he would lead such believers bound and captive back to the high priests?) 
But Saul much the more waxed strong or Forsooth Saul much more waxed strong, and confounded the Jews that dwelled at Damascus, and affirmed that this is Christ. (But Saul grew stronger, and confused the Jews who lived in Damascus, and affirmed that Jesus is the Messiah.) 
And when many days were ful filled, (the) Jews made a counsel, that they should slay him. (And after many days had passed, the Jews made a plan, that they would kill him.) 
And the ambushes of them were made known to Saul. And they kept (watch on) the gates day and night, that they should slay him (or so that they could kill him). 
But his disciples took him by night, and delivered him, and let him down in a basket by the wall. 
And when he came into Jerusalem, he assayed or he attempted to join him(self) to the disciples; and all dreaded him (or but everyone feared him), and believed not that he was a disciple. 
But Barnabas took, and led him to the apostles, and told to them, how in (or on) the way, (that) he had seen the Lord, and that he spake to him, and how in Damascus he did trustily in the name of Jesus. 
And he was with them, and entered (in), and went out in Jerusalem, and did trustily in the name of Jesus. 
And he spake with heathen men, and disputed with Greeks (or And he spoke and disputed with the Greek-speaking Jews). And they sought to slay him. 
Which thing when the brethren had known, they led him by night to Caesarea, and let him go to Tarsus. 
And the church by all Judea, and Galilee, and Samaria, had peace, and was edified, and walked in the dread of the Lord, and was full-filled with (the) comfort of the Holy Ghost. (And the church in all of Judea, and Galilee, and Samaria, had peace, and was edified, and walked in fearful reverence of the Lord, and was filled with the strength of the Holy Spirit.) 
And it befelled, that Peter, the while he passed about all, came to the holy men that dwelled at Lydda. 
And he found there a man, Aeneas by name, that from eight years (old) he had lain bed-ridden; and he was sick in the palsy. 
And Peter said to him, Aeneas, the Lord Jesus Christ heal thee; rise thou, and array, either make ready, thee. And anon he rose (or And at once he rose up). 
And all (the) men that dwelt at Lydda, and at Saron, saw him, which were converted to the Lord. (And everyone who dwelt at Lydda, and at Saron, who saw him, were converted to the Lord.) 
And in Joppa was a discipless, whose name was Tabitha, that is to say, Dorcas. This was full of good works and almsdeeds, that she did. 
And it befelled in those days, that she was sick, and died. And when they had washed her, they laid her in a solar (or they laid her in an upper room). 
And for Lydda was nigh Joppa, the disciples heard that Peter was therein, and sent two men to him, and prayed (or beseeched), That thou tarry not to come to us. 
And Peter rose up, and came with them. And when he was come, they led him into the solar (or into the upper room). And all the widows stood about him, weeping, and showing coats and clothes, which Dorcas made to them (or which Dorcas had made for them). 
And when all men were put withoutforth (or And after everyone was sent out of the room), Peter kneeled, and prayed. And he turned to the body, and said, Tabitha, arise thou. And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up. 
And he took her by the hand, and raised her (up). And when he had called the holy men and widows, he assigned her alive. 
And it was made known by all Joppa; and many believed in the Lord. 
And it was made, that many days he dwelled in Joppa, at (or with) one Simon, a currier or a tanner. 
