PSALMS.
Chapter 85.
To the overcomer, the song of the sons of Korah. Lord, thou hast blessed thy land; thou hast turned away the captivity of Jacob. (For the choirmaster, a song by the Korahites. Lord, thou hast blessed thy land; thou hast brought back the captives of Jacob or thou hast returned prosperity to Jacob.) 
Thou hast forgiven the wickedness of thy people; thou hast covered all the sins of them. 
Thou hast assuaged all thine ire; thou hast turned (thyself) away from the ire of thine indignation. 
God, our health, convert thou us; and turn away thine ire from us. (God, our salvation, bring thou us back, or God, our deliverance, turn back to us; and turn away thy anger from us.) 
Whether thou shalt be wroth to us into without end; either shalt thou hold forth thine ire from generation into generation? (Shalt thou be angry with us forever? shalt thou bring forth thy anger to all generations?) 
God, thou converted, shalt quicken us; and thy people shall be glad in thee. (God, give thou us new life; and thy people shall be glad, or shall rejoice, in thee.) 
Lord, show thy mercy to us; and give thine health to us. (Lord, show thy love to us; and give thy help to us or and grant us thy salvation, or thy deliverance.) 
I shall hear what the Lord God shall speak in me; for he shall speak peace to his people. And on his holy men; and on them that be turned to heart. (I shall listen to what the Lord God shall say; for he shall speak words of peace to his people. Yea, to us, and to his holy men; and to all who turn towards him with their hearts.) 
Nevertheless his health is nigh (to) men dreading him; that glory dwell in our land. (For his salvation, or his deliverance, is near to those who fear him or is near to those who revere him; so that glory can be in our land.) 
Mercy and truth met themselves; rightfulness and peace were kissed. (Love and faithfulness came together; righteousness and peace kissed each other.) 
Truth came forth (out) of the earth; and rightfulness beheld from heaven. (Faithfulness sprang forth from the earth; and righteousness looked down from heaven.) 
For the Lord shall give benignity; and our earth shall give his fruit. (For the Lord shall give prosperity; and our earth shall give its fruit.) 
Rightfulness shall go before him; and shall set his steps in the way. (Righteousness shall go before him; and shall prepare the way for his steps.) 
