ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 35.
He that keepeth the word of God, multiplieth prayer. Wholeful or Wholesome sacrifice is to take heed to (or of) the commandments, and to depart or go away from all wicked-ness. And to offer the pleasing of sacrifice for unrightfulnesses or (for) unrightwisenesses, and beseeching for sins, is to go away from unrightful-ness or unrightwiseness. 
He that offereth purest flour of wheat, shall yield grace, that is, shall give a pleasant (or a pleasing) service to God; and he that doeth mercy, offereth a sacrifice. 
It is well pleasant or well-pleas-ing to the Lord, to go away from wickedness; and prayer is to go away from unrightfulness or unrightwise-ness. 
Thou shalt not appear void (or empty) before the sight of God; 
for why all these things be done for the behests, (or for the commands, or the commandments) of God. 
The offering of a just man or of the rightwise maketh fat the altar, and is (the) odour of sweetness in the sight of the Highest. 
The sacrifice of a just man is acceptable, and the Lord shall not for-get the mind (or the memory) of him. 
With good will yield thou glory to God, and make thou not less the first fruits of thine hands. 
In each gift or In all gifts make glad thy cheer, and in full out joying hallow thy tithes. 
Give thou to the Highest after his free gift, that is, after the quantity of thy goods, which thou hast of (or from) God; and with good eye make thou the findings of thine hands, that is, with rightful intent, ordain thy good works, to the praising of God and not of man. 
For why the Lord is a yielder, and he shall yield sevenfold so much or as much to thee. 
Do not thou offer shrewd (or de-praved) gifts; for he shall not receive those or them. And do not thou behold an unjust or the unrightwise sacrifice; for the Lord is judge, and glory, or taking, (or favouring) of person(s) is not at or with him. 
The Lord shall not take a person against a poor man (or The Lord will not favour some person over a poor person); and he shall hear the prayer of him that is hurt. 
He shall not despise the prayers of a fatherless child, neither a widow, if she sheddeth or poured out (the) speech of wailing. 
Whether the tears of a widow go not down to the cheek, and the crying of her on him that leadeth forth those tears? For why those ascend from the cheek unto heaven, and the Lord hearing shall not delight in those or in them. 
He that worshippeth God in delighting, shall be received; and his prayer shall nigh unto the clouds. 
The prayer of him that meeketh himself shall pierce (the) clouds, and till it nigheth (or approacheth), he shall not be comforted, and he shall not go away, till the Highest behold (him). And the Lord shall not be far or long away, but he shall judge just or rightwise men, and shall make doom; 
and the Strongest shall not have patience in those or (towards) them, that (or till) he trouble the back(s) of them. And he shall yield vengeance to (the) folks or (the) Gentiles, till he take away the fullness or the plenty of proud men, and trouble (al)to-gether the sceptres of wicked men; 
till he yield to men after their deeds, and after the works of Adam, and after the presumption of him; till he deem the doom of his people, and shall delight just or rightwise men in his mercy. 
The mercy of God is fair in the time of tribulation, as clouds of rain in the time of dryness or of drought. 
