HEBREWS.
Chapter 4.
Therefore dread we, lest peradventure while the promise of entering into his rest is left (open), that any of us be guessed to be away, or (that) any of us be guessed, or deemed, for to fail. (And so let us be fearful, lest perhaps while the promise of entering into his rest is left open, that any of us be thought to miss our opportunity.) 
For it is told also to us, as to them. And the word that was heard profited not to them, not mingled to (the) faith of those things that they heard. 
For we that have believed, shall enter into (his) rest, as he said, As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest, (or As I swore in my anger, They shall not enter into my rest), or As I swore in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest. And when the works were made perfect at the ordinance of the world, 
he said thus in a place or in some place of the seventh day, And God rested in the seventh day from all his works. 
And in this place again, They shall not enter into my rest or If they shall enter into my rest. 
Therefore for it (pur)sueth (or And so it followeth), that some men shall enter into it, and they to which it was told to before or and they first to whom it is told, entered not for their unbelief. 
Again, he determineth some day, and saith in David, Today, after so much time of time, as it is before-said, Today if ye have heard his voice, do not ye harden your hearts. 
For if Jesus, that is, Joshua, had given rest to them, he should never speak of (an)other (rest) after this day. 
Therefore the sabbath or (a) rest is left to the people of God. 
For he that is entered into his rest, rested of his works, as also God of his. (For he who is entered into his rest, rested from his own works, like God rested from his.) 
Therefore haste we to enter into that rest, (so) that no man fall into the same ensample of unbelief. 
For the word of God is quick (or alive), and speedy in working, and more able to pierce than any twain-edged sword, and stretcheth forth till to the parting of the soul and of the spirit, and of the jointures and (the) marrows, and it is the deemer (or the judge) of thoughts, and of (the) intents of hearts. 
And no creature is invisible in the sight of God. For all things be naked and open to his eyes, to whom a word to us. 
Therefore we that have a great bishop, that pierced heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, hold we the acknowledging or the confession of our hope. (And so we who have a great High Priest, who pierced the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold onto the confession of our hope.) 
For we have not a bishop, that may not have compassion on our infirmities, (or For we do not have a High Priest, who cannot have compassion on our frailties or our weaknesses), but (One who) was tempted by all things by likeness, without sin. 
Therefore go we with trust to the throne of his grace, (so) that we get mercy, and find grace in covenable, (or in opportune, or in timely), help. 
