ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 50.
Simon, the son of Onias, was a great priest or Simon, Onias’ son, the great priest, which in his life under-setted the house, and in his days strengthened the temple. 
Also the highness of the temple was builded of (or by) him, that is, repaired, (yea), the double building, and (the) high walls of the temple. 
In the days of him the pits of (or for the) waters came forth; and as the sea, those or they were filled above measure. 
Which Simon healed (or cared for) his folk, and delivered it from perdition. Which was mighty to alarge (or enlarge) the city; 
which got glory in the conver-sation of (the) folk; and alarged (or enlarged) the entering of the house, and of the large compass or the porch about. 
As the day star or the morrow-tide in the midst of a cloud, and as a full moon shineth in his (or in its) days; 
and as the sun shining, so he shined in the temple of God; as a rainbow shining among the clouds of glory, 
and as a flower of roses in the days of ver (or of springtime), and as lilies, that be in the passing or in the goings of water, and as incense smelling in the days of summer; 
as fire shining, and incense burn-ing in fire; as a firm or massive vessel of gold, adorned with each precious stone; 
as an olive tree springing forth, and a cypress tree raising itself on high; 
while he took the stole (or the robe) of glory, and was clothed in the perfection of virtue. In the ascending or the going up of the holy altar, the clothing or amice of holiness gave glory. 
Forsooth in taking (the) parts (out) of the hand(s) of (the) priests, that is, the tithe of tithes, which the priests took of (or received from) the people, and he stood beside the altar. The crown of brethren, as a planting of a cedar in the hill Lebanon, was about him; so they stood about him as boughs of palm tree(s), 
and all the sons of Aaron stood in their glory. Soothly the offering of the Lord was in the hands of them, before all the synagogue or gathering of Israel; 
and he used full ending on the altar, to alarge, or to make large, (or to magnify) the offering of the high King. 
And he (ad)dressed (or directed) his hand in (or to the) moist, or liquor, (or liquid) sacrifice; and sacrificed in (or with) the blood of (the) grape. He shedded or poured out in the foundament (or at the foundation) of the altar, the odour of God to the high prince. 
Then the sons of Aaron cried (a)loud; they sounded in (or with) trumps beaten out with hammers, and made a great voice (or a loud noise) heard into mind before God. 
Then all the people hast(en)ed together, and fell down on the face on the earth, for to worship their Lord God, and to give prayers to Almighty God on high. 
And men singing in their voices alarged, that is, praised God largely; and a sound full of sweetness was made in the great house. 
And the people prayed (to) the high Lord in prayer, till that the honour of the Lord was done perfect-ly, and they performed their or his gift (or his service). 
Then Simon came down, and raised (up)or put out his hands into all the congregation of the sons of Israel, to give glory to God by (or with) his lips, and to have glory in the name of him. 
And he rehearsed (or repeated) his prayer, willing (or desiring) to show the virtue of God. 
And he prayed more (to) the Lord of all, that made or did great things in each land or all (the) earth; which increased our days from the womb of our mother, and did with us by or after his mercy. 
Give he gladness of heart to us, and that peace be made in Israel by everlasting days; 
that Israel believe, that God’s mercy is with us, (and) that he deliver them in their days. 
My soul hateth two folks; but the third is not a folk, whom I hate. 
They that sit in the hill of Samaria, and the Philistines, and the fond or fool(ish) people, that dwell-eth in Shechem. 
Jesus, the son of Sirach, a man of Jerusalem, wrote in this book the teaching or the doctrine of wisdom, and of cunning, (or of knowing, or knowledge); and he renewed (the) wisdom of (or from) his heart. 
He is blessed, that dwelleth in these good thing s; he that setteth those things in his heart, shall ever-more be wise. 
For if he doeth these things, he shall be mighty to all things; for why the light of God is the step of him. 
