ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 40.
Great occupation is made to all men, and an heavy yoke on the sons of Adam, from the day of the going out of the womb of their mother, till into the day of burying into the mother of all men, that is, into the earth. 
The thoughts of them, and the dreads of (the) heart, (the) findings of abiding, and the day of ending; 
from him that sitteth before on a glorious seat (or a throne of glory), unto a man made low into earth and ashes; 
from him that useth jacinth, (or hyacinth), or blue silk, and beareth a crown, unto him that is covered with raw linen cloth (or a linen cloak), 
madness (or anger), envy, noise, doubting, and dread of death, wrath-fulness dwelling continually, and strife; and in the time of resting or repast in the bed, the sleep of night changeth his cunning (or his know-ing, or his knowledge). 
Forsooth a little is as nought in rest; beholding is of him in sleep as in the day. He is disturbed (or is troubled) in the sight of his heart, as he that escapeth or escaped in the day of battle. 
He rose up in the day of his health, (or his deliverance), and dread-ing not at any dread, 
with all flesh, from man unto beast, and sevenfold (more), that is, grievous punishment, shall come on sinners. 
At these things, death, blood, striving or strife, and sword, oppressings, hunger, and sorrow, and beatings; 
all these things be made on wicked men, and the great flood was made for them. 
For why all (the) things that be of the earth, shall (re)turn into the earth; and all (the things that be of the) waters shall (re)turn into the sea. 
All gift, given for (the) destroying of rightfulness, and wickedness, done for gift, shall be done away; and faith shall stand into the world (for ever-more). 
The riches or The substances of unjust men shall be made dry or dried (up) as a flood; and shall sound as a great thunder in (the) rain. 
An unjust man shall be glad in opening his hands; so trespassers or law-breakers shall fail in the end. 
The sons of (the) sons of wicked or unpious men shall not multiply branches; and (be like) unclean roots sown on the cop (or the top) of a stone. 
Greenness beside each water; and at the brink of the flood (or bank of the river), it shall be drawn out by the root before all (the) hay. 
Grace as paradise in blessings; and mercy dwelleth into the world. 
The life of a workman sufficient to himself shall be made sweet; and thou shalt find treasure therein. 
(The) Building of a city shall con-firm a name; and a woman without wem or undefouled shall be reckon-ed above or over this, for why her steadfastness shall stand without end. 
Wine and music make glad the heart; and (or but the) love of wisdom gladdeth above or over ever either. 
Pipes and psaltery make sweet melody; and (or but) a sweet tongue (is) above or over ever either. 
An eye shall desire grace and fair-ness; and green sowings above these things or over these green tilthes. 
A friend and a meat-fellow coming together in time; and (or but) a woman with a man (is) above or over ever either. 
Brethren into help in the time of tribulation comfort much; and (or but) mercy shall deliver more than they or over them. 
Gold and silver, and setting of feet; and (or but) counsel well-pleas-ing is above or over ever either. 
Riches and virtues enhance the heart; and (or but) the dread of the Lord (is) more than this. Making less or less(en)ing is not in the dread of the Lord; and in that dread it is not to seek help. 
The dread of the Lord is as (a) paradise of blessing; and the blessings of God covered him above all glory. 
Son, in the time of thy life, be thou not needy, that is, in (the) time of (thy) present life, granted to thee to work well, be thou not idle; for it is better to die, then to be needy, that is, it is better to die bodily, then to be idle, by which a man dieth ghostly (or spiritually). 
A man beholding into another man’s board, his life is not in the thought of lifelode (or about liveli-hood); for he sustaineth his life with other men’s meats. Forsooth a chas-tised man and learned or disciplined and taught, shall keep himself. 
Neediness shall be defouled or made in the mouth of an unprudent, or (a) slow and idle, man; and (or but) fire shall burn in his womb. 
