ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 42.
Be thou not (a)shamed for all these things; and take or accept thou not a person, (so) that thou do trespass. 
Be thou ware of the law and testament of the Highest, of doom to justify a wicked man; of the law of the Highest, and of the testament of doom, to justify the unpious; 
of the word of fellows, and of way-goers, and of the giving of (the) heritage of friends; 
of the evenness of balance, and of weights, of the getting of many things, and of few things; 
of (the) corruption of buying, and of merchants, and of much chastising or much discipline of sons; and of a worst servant, to make the side to bleed. 
A sealing, either closing, is good on a wicked woman. Where be many hands, close thou (up); 
and whatever thing thou shalt betake (or receive), number thou, and weigh thou; forsooth describe thou, either write (down), each gift, and taking (or receiving in). 
Abstain thou from the teaching of an unwitty (or unwise) man, and fool, and of elder men that be deemed of (or by the) young men; and thou shalt be learned in all things, and thou shalt be commendable or (ap)prov-able (or approved) in the sight of all men. 
An hid daughter of a father is waking or watch(ing) and busyness of (or for) him; she shall take away sleep; lest peradventure she be made (an) adulteress in her young waxing age, and lest she dwelling with the husband, be made hateful; 
lest anytime she be defouled in her virginity or be polluted in her maidenhood, and be found with child in the keeping of her father; lest peradventure she dwelling with the husband, do trespass, either certainly be made barren. 
Ordain thou keeping or ward on a lecherous daughter, lest any time she make thee to come into shame or reproof to thine enemies, of backbiting in the city, and of casting out of the people; and she make thee ashamed in the multitude of people. 
Do not thou take heed to each man (or to each person) in the fair-ness, that is, in delighting in the beholding of his (or their) fairness; and do not thou dwell in the midst of women. 
For why a moth cometh forth of (or from) clothes, and (the) wicked-ness of a man cometh forth of (or from) a woman. 
For why the wickedness of a man is better, that is, less evil, than a woman doing well, and a woman shaming into shame (or reproach). 
Therefore be thou mindful of the works of the Lord; and I shall tell (out) the works of the Lord, which I saw, in the words of the Lord. 
The sun lightening or shining through beheld by all things; and the work thereof is full of the glory of the Lord. 
Whether the Lord made not holy men to tell out all his marvels, which the Lord Almighty steadfast in his glory shall confirm? 
He shall ensearch the depth, and the heart of men; and he shall think in (or on) the fellness, or the sly wit, or guile, of them. For the Lord knew all cunning (or all knowing or knowl-edge), and beheld into the sign(s) of the world; 
telling out those things that be passed, and those things that shall come; showing the steps of hid things. 
And no thought passeth him (by), and no word hideth itself from him. 
He made fair the great works of his wisdom, which is before the world, and till into the world; neither anything is increased or added, neither is decreased or less(en)ed, and he hath no need to the counsel of any man. 
All his works be full desirable, and to behold, as a sparkle which is. 
All these things live, and dwell into the world (or evermore); and all things obey to him in all need. 
All things be double, one against one; and he made not anything to fail. 
He shall confirm the goods of each or of everything; and who shall be filled, seeing his glory? 
