DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 28.
And when we had escaped, then we knew that the isle was called Melita. 
And the heathen men did to us not (just a) little courtesy, or Soothly (the) barbarians gave to us not (just a) little humanity, (or And the Gentiles there did not just a little courtesy to us). And when a fire was kindled, they refreshed us all, for the rain that came, and the cold. 
But when Paul had gathered a quantity of cuttings of vines, and laid (them) on the fire, an adder came forth from the heat (or a snake came out because of the heat), and took him by the hand. 
And when the heathen men of the isle saw the beast hanging in his hand, they said together, For this man is a manslayer; and when he escaped from the sea, God’s vengeance suffereth him not to live in (the) earth. (And when the Gentiles of that island saw the beast hanging on his hand, they said to each other, This man is a murderer; and although he escaped from the sea, God’s vengeance shall not allow him to live upon the earth.) 
But he shook away the beast into the fire, and had none harm, or and suffered nothing of evil, (or and was not harmed). 
And they guessed that he should be turned into swelling, and fall down suddenly, and die. But when they abided long, and saw that nothing of evil was done in him, they turned (to) them(selves) together, and said, that he was God (or a god). 
And in those places were manors or fields of the prince of the isle, Publius by name, which received us by three days benignly or with good will, and ‘found’ us. 
And it befell, that the father of Publius lay travailed with fevers and bloody flux (or dysentery). To whom Paul entered, and when he had prayed, and laid his hands on him, he healed him. 
And when this thing was done, all that in the isle had sicknesses came (or all those on the island who had sicknesses came), and were healed or were cured. 
Which also honoured us with many worships (or And they honoured us with many gifts), and putted (on board) what things were necessary to (or for) us, when we shipped. 
And after three months we shipped (out) in (or on) a ship of Alexandria, that had wintered in (or at) the isle, to which was an excellent sign of Castor. 
And when we came to Syracuse, we dwelled there three days. 
From thence we sailed about, and came to Rhegium; and after one day, while the south blew, in the second day we came to Puteoli. 
Where when we found (some) brethren, we were prayed to dwell there with them seven days (or we were beseeched to stay there with them for seven days). And so we (finally) came to Rome. 
And from thence, when brethren had heard, they came to us to the chapping of Appii, and to the Three Taverns. And when Paul had seen them, he did thankings to God, and took trust. (And from there, when the brothers had heard, they came to meet us at the market, or at the city square, of Appii, and to the Three Taverns. And when Paul had seen them, he gave thanks to God, and took trust.) 
And when we came to Rome, it was suffered to Paul to dwell by himself, with a knight keeping him. (And when we came to Rome, Paul was allowed to live by himself, with a soldier guarding him.) 
And after the third day, he called together the worthiest of the Jews. And when they came, he said to them, Brethren, I did nothing against the people either custom(s) of (our) fathers, and I was bound at Jerusalem, and was betaken into the hands of (the) Romans. (And after three days, he called together the leaders of the Jews. And when they came, he said to them, Brothers, I did nothing against our people, or against our fathers’ customs, but I was taken captive in Jerusalem, and was delivered into the hands of the Romans.) 
And when they had asked of me, (they) would have delivered me, for that no cause (worthy) of death was in me. (And after they had questioned me, they would have released me, because no case, or crime, worthy of death was found against me.) 
But for the Jews gainsaid (me), I was constrained to appeal to the emperor or to Caesar, (or But because the Jews spoke against me, I was compelled to appeal to the Emperor); not as having anything to accuse my people (of). 
Therefore for this cause I prayed to see you, and speak to you, (or And so for this reason I asked to see you, and to speak to you); for for the hope of Israel I am gird about with this chain. 
And they said to him, Neither we have received letters of thee from Judea, neither any of (the) brethren coming showed, either spake, any evil thing of thee. (And they said to him, We have not received any letters about thee from Judea, nor have any of the brothers coming here shown, or spoken, anything bad about thee.) 
But we pray to hear of thee, what things thou feelest; for of this sect it is known to us, that everywhere men gainsaith it. (But we would like to listen to thee, whatever thou would like to say; for this sect is known to us, and everywhere people speak against it.) 
And when they had ordained a day to him, many men came to him into the inn. To which he expounded, witnessing the kingdom of God, and counselled them of Jesus, of the law of Moses, and of(the) prophets, from the morrow till to the eventide. (And so when they had ordained a day for him, many came to him at the inn. To whom he expounded, testifying about the Kingdom of God, and counselled them about Jesus, and the Law of Moses, and the prophets, from the morning until the evening.) 
And some believed to these things that were said of Paul, some believed not. (And some believed these things that were said by Paul, and some did not believe them.) 
And when they were not consenting together, they departed. And Paul said one word, For the Holy Ghost spake well by Esaias, the prophet, to our fathers, (or And so Paul said this last thing to them, For the Holy Spirit spoke rightly by the prophet Isaiah, to our fathers), 
and said, Go thou to this people, and say to them, With ear ye shall hear, and ye shall not understand; and ye seeing shall see, and ye shall not behold. 
For the heart of this people is greatly fatted, and with ears they heard heavily, and they closed together their eyes, lest peradventure they see with (their) eyes, and with (their) ears hear, and by (their) heart understand, and be converted, and I heal them. 
Therefore be it known to you, that this health of God, is sent to (the) heathen men, and they shall hear. (And so let it be known to you, that this salvation of God is now sent to the Gentiles, and they shall listen.) 
And when he had said these things, (the) Jews went out from him, and had much question, or musing, or seeking, among themselves. 
And he dwelled (a) full two years in his hired place; and he received all that entered to him, 
and preached the kingdom of God, and taught those things that be of the Lord Jesus Christ, with all trust, without forbidding. Amen. 
