MATTHEW.
Chapter 9.
And Jesus went up into a boat, and passed over the water, and came into his city. 
And lo! they brought to him a man sick in (the) palsy, lying in a bed. And Jesus saw the faith of them, and said to the man sick in (the) palsy, Son, have thou trust; thy sins be forgiven to thee. 
And lo! some of the scribes said within themselves, This blasphemeth. 
And when Jesus had seen their thoughts, he said, Whereto think ye evil things in your hearts? (And when Jesus had perceived their thoughts, he said, Why think ye such evil things in your hearts?) 
What is lighter to say (or What is easier to say), Thy sins be forgiven to thee, either to say, Rise thou, and walk? 
But (so) that ye know that man’s Son hath power to forgive sins in (or on the) earth, then he said to the sick man in (the) palsy or then he said to the man sick in (the) palsy, Rise up; take thy bed, and go into thine house. 
And he rose, and went into his house. 
And the people seeing dreaded, and glorified God, that gave such power to men. (And the people seeing this were filled with fearful reverence, and glorified God, who gave such power to men.) 
And when Jesus passed from thence, he saw a man, Matthew by name, sitting in a tollbooth. And he said to him, (Pur)Sue thou me (or Follow me). And he rose, and followed him. 
And it was done, while he sat at the meat in the house, lo! many publicans and sinful men came, and sat at the meat with Jesus and his disciples. (And it was done, while he sat at a meal in the house, behold! many tax collectors and sinners came, and sat at the meal with Jesus and his disciples.) 
And the Pharisees saw, and said to his disciples, Why eateth your master with publicans and sinful men? (or Why is your teacher eating with tax collectors and sinners?) 
And Jesus heard, and said, A leech is not needful to men that fare well, but to men that be evil-at-ease or having evil. (And Jesus heard them, and said, A physician is not needed by men who be well, but by men who be sick.) 
But go ye, and learn what it is, I will mercy, (or I want mercy, or kindness), and not sacrifice; for I came, not to call rightful or rightwise men, but sinful men to penance(or but sinners to repentance). 
Then the disciples of John came to him, and said, Why we and the Pharisees fast oft, but thy disciples fast not? 
And Jesus said to them, Whether the sons of the spouse may mourn or may wail as long as the spouse is with them? But (the) days shall come, when the spouse shall be taken away from them, and then they shall fast. 
And no man putteth a patch of rough cloth, or of rude, or new, cloth, into an old clothing; for it doeth away or it taketh away the fullness of the cloth, and a worse breaking is made. (And no one putteth a patch of new cloth onto an old piece of clothing; for it doeth away the fullness of the cloak, and a bigger hole is made.) 
Neither men put new wine into old bottles, else the bottles be broken, and destroyed, and the wine shed out. But men put new wine into new bottles, and both be kept. Neither men send new wine into old wine vessels, else the wine vessels be broken, and the wine is shed out, and the wine vessels perish. But men send new wine into new wine vessels, and both be kept. 
Whiles that Jesus spake these things to them, lo! a prince came, and worshipped him, (or behold! a leader (of a synagogue) came, and honoured him), and said, Lord, my daughter is now dead; but come thou, and put thine hand on her, and she shall live (again). 
And Jesus rose, and his disciples, and (pur)sued him (or and followed him). 
And lo! a woman, that had a bloody flux, or that suffered the running of blood, (for) twelve years, nighed behind, and touched the hem of his cloth. (And behold! a woman, who had suffered a flow, or an issue, of blood for twelve years, approached behind him, and touched the hem of his cloak.) 
For she said within herself, If I touch only the cloth of him, I shall be safe. (For she said within herself, If I only touch his cloak, then I shall be saved, or I shall be healed.) 
And Jesus turned, and saw her, and said, Daughter, have thou trust; thy faith hath made thee safe, (or thy faith hath saved thee, or hath healed thee). And the woman was made whole from that hour (or at that moment). 
And when Jesus came into the house of the prince, and saw (the) minstrels, and the people making noise, (And when Jesus came into the house of the leader (of the synagogue), and saw the musicians, and the people making a commotion,) 
he said, Go ye away, for the damsel is not dead, but sleepeth. And they scorned him. 
And when the folk was put out (or And when the people were put out), he went in, and held her hand; and the damsel rose up. 
And this fame, (or this story, or this telling), went out into all that land. 
And when Jesus passed from thence, two blind men crying (pur)sued him, and said, Thou son of David, have mercy on us. And Jesus passing from thence, two blind men (pur)sued him, crying, and saying, Thou son of David, have mercy on us.(And when Jesus went away from there, two blind men followed him, and crying out, they said, O Son of David, have mercy on us.) 
And when he came into the house, the blind men came to him; and Jesus said to them, What will ye, that I do to you? (or What do you desire that I do for you? or What do you want me to do for you?) And they said, Lord, that our eyes be opened. And Jesus said, Believe ye, that I may do this thing to you? or Believe ye, that I may do this thing?(or Believe ye, that I can do this for you?) They said to him, Yea, Lord. 
Then he touched their eyes, and said, After your faith be it done to you. 
And the eyes of them were opened. And Jesus threatened them, and said, See ye, that no man know. 
But they went out, and famed him through(out) all that land. 
And when they were gone out, lo! they brought to him a dumb man, having a devil, (or they brought to him a man who could not speak, because he had a demon). 
And when the devil was cast out, the dumb man spake. And the people wondered, and said, It hath not been seen thus in Israel or It appeared never so in Israel. 
But the Pharisees said, In the prince of devils he casteth out devils (or By the Prince of demons he throweth out demons). 
And Jesus went about all the cities and castles, teaching in the synagogues of them, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every languor or all ache, and every sickness. (And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the Gospel, or the Good News, of the Kingdom, and healing every languor, or every ache and sorrow, and every sickness.) 
And he saw the people, and had ruth on them; for they were travailed, and lying as sheep not having a shepherd. (And he saw the people, and had compassion for them; for they were troubled, and living like sheep not having a shepherd.) 
Then he said to his disciples, Soothly there is much ripe corn (or Truly there is a great harvest to be gotten), but few workmen. 
Therefore pray ye the Lord of the ripe corn, that he send workmen into his ripe corn. (And so pray to the Lord of the harvest, that he send workers to gather in his harvest.) 
