PSALMS.
Chapter 103.
A psalm of David. (A song by David.) My soul, bless thou the Lord, and all things that be within me, bless his holy name. 
My soul, bless thou the Lord; and do not thou forget all the yieldings of him. (My soul, bless thou the Lord; and do not thou forget about all his gifts to thee.) 
Which doeth mercy to all thy wickednesses; which healeth all thy sicknesses. (Who showeth mercy to all thy sins, or all thy wickednesses; who healeth all thy sicknesses.) 
Which again-buyeth thy life from death; which crowneth thee in mercy and merciful doings. (Who redeemeth thy life from death; who crowneth thee with love and merciful doings.) 
Which ful filleth thy desire in goods; thy youth shall be renewed as the youth of an eagle. (Who fulfilleth thy desires with good things; thy youth shall be renewed like the youth of an eagle.) 
The Lord doing mercies; and doom, to all men suffering wrong. (The Lord giveth mercy, and justice, to all who suffer wrong.) 
He made his ways known to Moses; his wills to the sons of Israel (or his deeds to the Israelites). 
The Lord is a merciful doer, and merciful in will, (or The Lord is a giver of love, and a giver of mercy); long abiding, and much merciful. 
He shall not be wroth into without end; and he shall not threaten into without end. (He shall not be angry forever; and he shall not threaten forever.) 
He did not to us after our sins; neither he yielded to us after our wickednesses. (He did not do to us what we deserved for our sins; nor did he punish us for all our wickednesses.) 
For by the highness of heaven from earth; he made strong his mercy on men dreading him. (For as high as the heavens be above the earth, is how strong his love is, for those who fear him or for those who revere him.) 
As much as the east is from the west; he made a far our wickednesses from us. 
As a father hath mercy on his sons, the Lord had mercy on men dreading him; (Like a father hath love for his sons and daughters, so the Lord hath love for those who fear him or for those who revere him;) 
for he knew our making. He bethought that we be dust (or He remembered that we be but dust), 
a man is as hay; his days shall flower out so as a flower of the field. (for a person’s days (be) like the hay, (or the grass); and he shall flower out like the flowers in the field.) 
For the spirit shall pass in him, and it shall not abide; and it shall no more know his place. (For the wind passeth over it, and it shall not remain there long; and then its place shall know it no more.) 
But the mercy of the Lord is from without beginning, and till into without end; on men dreading him. And his rightfulness is into the sons of sons; (But the Lord’s loveis without beginning, and without end; for those who fear him or for those who revere him. And his righteousness shall never fail the children of their children,) 
to them that keep his testament. And be mindful of his commandments; to do those. (yea, they who keep his covenant; and who remember his commandments, and who do them.) 
The Lord hath made ready his seat in heaven; and his realm shall be lord of all. (The Lord hath prepared his throne in heaven; and he shall rule over all as their King.) 
Angels of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; ye mighty in virtue, doing his word, to hear the voice of his words. (Angels of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; ye mighty and strong, who do his word, yea, ye who obey him.) 
All virtues of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; ye ministers of him, that do his will. (All the hosts of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; ye who be his servants, who do his will.) 
All works of the Lord, bless ye the Lord, in each place of his lordship; my soul, bless thou the Lord. (All his creatures, bless ye the Lord, everywhere that he ruleth; my soul, bless the Lord!) 
