DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 8.
But Saul was consenting to his death. And great persecution was made that day in the church, that was in Jerusalem. And all men were scattered by the countries (or into the provinces) of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. 
But good or dread-full men buried Stephen, and made great mourning on him. (And some good or devout men buried Stephen, and greatly mourned over him.) 
But Saul greatly destroyed the church, and entered by houses, and drew out men and women, and betook them into prison or into keeping, (or and delivered them to prison). 
And they that were scattered, passed forth, preaching the word of God. 
And Philip came down into a city of Samaria, and preached to them Christ. (And Philip came down to a city in Samaria, and preached to them about the Messiah.) 
And the people gave attention to these things that were said of (or by) Philip, with one will hearing and seeing the signs that he did. 
For many of them that had unclean spirits, cried with (a) great voice, and (they) went out. And many sick in the palsy, and crooked (or and lame), were healed. 
Therefore great joy was made in that city. 
But there was a man in that city, whose name was Simon, a witch, that had deceived the folk of Samaria (or who had deceived the Samaritan people), saying, that himself was some great man. 
To Whom all harkened, from the least to the most, and said, This is the virtue (or the power) of God, which is called great. 
And they believed him, for (a) long time he had madded them (or he had astonished them) with his witchcrafts. Forsooth they beheld him, for this thing, that much time he had made them mad with his witchings. 
But when they had believed to Philip, preaching of the kingdom of God, men and women were baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Soothly when they had believed to Philip, evangelizing of the kingdom of God, in the name of Jesus Christ, men and women were baptized. 
And then also Simon himself believed; and when he was baptized, he drew (himself)(un)to Philip; and he saw also that signs and great virtues were done, he was astonied, and wondered, (or and when he saw that miracles and great works of power were done, he was astonished, and wondered). 
But when the apostles that were at Jerusalem, had heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent to them Peter and John. 
And when they came (there), they prayed for them, that they should receive the Holy Ghost (or so that they would receive the Holy Spirit); 
for he came not yet into any of them or forsooth not yet he came into any of them, but they were baptized only in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
Then they laid (their) hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost (or and they received the Holy Spirit). 
And when Simon had seen, that the Holy Ghost was given by (the) laying on of the hands of the apostles, and he proffered or he offered to them money, (And when Simon had seen, that the Holy Spirit was given by the laying on of the hands of the apostles, then he offered them money,) 
and said, Give ye also to me this power, that whomever I shall lay on mine hands or that on whomever I shall put on hands, that he receive the Holy Ghost. (and said, Give also to me this power, so that whomever I shall lay my hands on, he shall receive the Holy Spirit.) 
But Peter said to him, Thy money be with thee into perdition, for thou guessedest that the gift of God should be had for money or for thou guessedest the gift of God to be had (or gotten), or wielded, (or possessed), by money. 
There is no part, nor lot to thee, in this word, for thine heart is not rightful before God. 
Therefore do thou penance for this wickedness of thee (or And so repent for this wickedness of thine), and pray God, if peradventure this thought of thine heart be forgiven to thee. 
For I see that thou art in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of wickedness. 
And Simon answered, and said, Pray ye for me to the Lord, (so) that nothing of these things that ye have said, come on me. 
And they witnessed, and spake the word of the Lord, and went again to Jerusalem, and preached or evangelized to many countries of Samaritans. (And they testified, and spoke the word of the Lord, and then returned to Jerusalem, preaching in many villages of the Samaritans as they went forth.) 
And an angel of the Lord spake to Philip, and said, Rise thou, and go to meet the south, to the way that goeth down from Jerusalem into Gaza; this is (the) desert. 
And he rose (up), and went forth. And lo! a man of Ethiopia, a mighty manservant, a gelding of Candace, the queen of (the) Ethiopians, which was on all her riches, came to worship in Jerusalem. (And he got up, and went forth. And behold! an Ethiopian man, a powerful manservant, a eunuch of Candace, the Ethiopian queen, who was over, or was in charge of, all of her wealth, came to worship in Jerusalem.) 
And he turned again, sitting on his chariot, and reading Esaias, the prophet. (And he was returning home, sitting in his chariot, and reading the prophet Isaiah.) 
And the Spirit said to Philip, Nigh thou, and join thee to this chariot. (And the Spirit said to Philip, Approach him, and join thyself to this chariot.) 
And Philip ran to, and heard him reading Esaias, the prophet, (or And Philip ran over, and heard him reading the prophet Isaiah). And he said, Guessest thou, whether thou understandest, what things thou readest? 
And he said, How may I, if no man show to me? And he prayed Philip (or And he beseeched Philip), that he should come up, and sit with him. 
And the place of the scripture that he read, was this, As a sheep he was led to slaying, and as a lamb before a man that sheareth him is dumb without voice, so he opened not his mouth. 
In meekness his doom was taken up; who shall tell out the generation(s) of him? For his life shall be taken away from the earth. (He was humbled, or He was humiliated, and was denied justice; now who can tell out about his descendants? For his life was taken away from the earth.) 
And the gelding answered to Philip, and said (or And the eunuch said to Philip), I beseech thee, of what prophet saith he this thing? of himself, or of any other? 
And Philip opened his mouth, and began at this scripture, and preached or evangelized to him (about) Jesus. 
And while they went by the way, they came to a water or they came to some water. And the gelding said, Lo! water; who forbiddeth me to be baptized? 
And Philip said, If thou believest of all thine heart, it is leaveful, (or And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, it is lawful). And he answered, and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. 
And he commanded the chariot to stand still. And they went down both into the water, Philip and the gelding, and Philip baptized him, (or And they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and Philip baptized him). 
And when they were come up (out) of the water, the Spirit of the Lord ravished (or snatched up) Philip, and the gelding saw him no more; and he went in his way joying (or and he went on his way rejoicing). 
And Philip was found in Azotus; and he passed forth, and preached or evangelized to all (the) cities, till he came to Caesarea. 
