MARK.
Chapter 9.
And he said to them, Truly I say to you, that there be some men standing here, which shall not taste death, till they see the realm of God coming in virtue. (And he said to them, I tell you the truth, that there be some standing here now, who shall not taste death, before they see the Kingdom of God coming in power, or coming with power.) 
And after six days Jesus took Peter, and James, and John, and led them by themselves alone into an high hill, (or and led only them up onto a high hill, or a mountain); and he was transfigured before them. 
And his clothes were made full shining and (as) white as snow, which manner white clothes a fuller may not make on (the) earth. 
And Elias with Moses appeared to them, and they spake with Jesus. (And Elijah and Moses appeared to them, and they spoke with Jesus.) 
And Peter answered, and said to Jesus, Master, it is good (for) us to be here; and make we here three tabernacles, one to thee, one to Moses, and one to Elias. (And Peter said to Jesus, Teacher, it is good for us to be here; and we shall make here three tents, or three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.) 
For he knew not what he should say; for they were aghast by dread or for they were afeared by dread. 
And there was made a cloud overshadowing them; and a voice came out of the cloud, and said, This is my most dearworthy Son, hear ye him (or listen to him). 
And anon they beheld about, and saw no more any man, no but Jesus only with them. (And at once they looked about, and saw no one there, except Jesus with them.) 
And when they came down from the hill, he commanded them, that they should not tell to any man those things that they had seen, but when (or until) man’s Son hath risen again from death, +or no but when (or until) man’s Son hath risen from (the) dead. 
And they held the word at themselves (or And they held the word within themselves), seeking what this should be, when he had risen again from death or when he hath risen from (the) dead. 
And they asked him, and said, What then say the Pharisees and the scribes, that it behooveth Elias to come first. (And they asked him, Why then do the Pharisees and the scribes say, that it behooveth Elijah to come first.) 
And he answered, and said to them, When Elias cometh (or When Elijah shall come), he shall first restore all things; and as it is written of man’s Son, that he suffer many things, and be despised. 
And I say to you that Elias is come, and they did to him whatever things they would, as it is written of him. (And I tell you that Elijah hath come, and they did whatever they wanted to do to him, as it is written about him.) 
And he coming to his disciples, saw a great company about them, and the scribes disputing with them. 
And anon all the people seeing Jesus, was astonied, and they dreaded; and they running to(him), greeted him. (And at once all the people seeing Jesus, were astonished, and they had fearful reverence; and running to him, they greeted him.) 
And he asked them, What (thing) dispute ye among you? 
And one of the company answered, and said, Master, (or Teacher), I have brought to thee my son, that hath a dumb spirit; 
and wherever he taketh him, he hurtleth him down, and he foameth, and beateth together with (his) teeth, and waxeth dry (or and then groweth dry). And I said to thy disciples, that they should cast him out, and they might not. 
And he answered to them, and said, A! thou generation out of belief, or O! thou generation unbelieveful, (or O thou unbelieving, or unfaithful, generation!), how long shall I be among you, how long shall I suffer you? Bring ye him to me. 
And they brought him. And when he had seen him, anon the spirit troubled him (or at once the spirit troubled him); and he was thrown down to the ground, and wallowed, and foamed. 
And he asked his father, How long is it, since this hath befallen to him? And he said, From childhood; 
and oft he hath put him into the fire, and into water, to lose him (or to destroy him); but if thou mayest (do) anything, help us, and have mercy on us. 
And Jesus said to him, If thou mayest believe (or If thou can believe), all things be possible to a man that believeth. 
And anon (or And at once) the father of the child cried with tears, and said, Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief. 
And when Jesus had seen the people running together, he menaced the unclean spirit (or he threatened the unclean spirit), and said to him, Thou deaf and dumb spirit, I command thee, go out from him, and enter no more into him. 
And he crying, and much wrenching him, went out from him; and he was made as dead, so that many said, that he was dead. 
And Jesus held his hand, and lifted him up; and he rose. 
And when he had entered into an house, his disciples asked him privily, Why might not we cast him out? (And when he had entered into a house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could we not throw him out?) 
And he said to them, This kind in nothing may go out or This kind may not go out in anything, no but in prayer and fasting. (And he said to them, This kind cannot be made to go out, except by prayer and fasting.) 
And they went from thence, and went forth into Galilee; and they would not, that any man knew, or and he would not, that any man know, (or and he did not want, that anyone knew that he was there). 
And he taught his disciples, and said to them, For man’s Son shall be betrayed into the hands of men, and they shall slay him, and he slain shall rise again on the third day. 
And they knew not the (meaning of the) word(s), and dreaded to ask him (or and feared to ask him). 
And they came to Capernaum. And when they were in the house, he asked them, What treated ye in the way? (or What did ye discuss on the way?) 
And they were still; for they disputed among themselves in the way, who of them should be the greatest. (And they were silent; for they had argued among themselves on the way, who of them was the greatest.) 
And he sat, and called the twelve, and said to them, If any man will be the first among you, he shall be the last of all, and the minister or the servant of all. 
And he took a child, and set him in the middle or in the midst of them; and when he had embraced him, he said to them, 
Whoever receiveth one of such children in my name, he receiveth me; and whoever receiveth me, he receiveth not me alone, but him that sent me. 
John answered to him, and said, Master, we saw one casting out fiends in thy name, which (pur)sueth not us, and we have forbidden him. (John answered to him, and said, Teacher, we saw one throwing out devils and demons in thy name, and he followeth not us, and we have forbidden him.) 
And Jesus said, Do not ye forbid him; for there is no man that doeth virtue in my name, and may soon speak evil of me. (And Jesus said, Do not forbid him; for there is no one who doeth a work of power, or a miracle, in my name, and can soon after speak evil about me.) 
He that is not against us, is for us. 
And whoever giveth to you (even) a cup of cold water to drink in my name, for ye be of Christ, truly I say to you, he shall not lose his meed. (And whoever giveth to you even just a cup of cold water to drink in my name, for ye belong to the Messiah, I tell you the truth, he shall not lose his reward.) 
And whoever shall cause to stumble one of these little (ones) that believe in me, it were better to him that a millstone were done about his neck, and he were cast into the sea. (And whoever shall cause one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for him if a millstone was put around his neck, and he was thrown into the sea.) 
And if thine hand cause thee to stumble, cut it away; it is better to thee to enter feeble into life, (or it is better for thee to enter into (eternal) life weak, or maimed), than (to) have two hands, and (to) go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched or into (the) fire unquenchable, 
where the worm of them dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 
And if thy foot cause thee to stumble, cut it off; it is better to thee to enter crooked into everlasting life, (or it is better for thee to enter into eternal life bent, or lame), than (to) have two feet, and (to) be sent into hell of fire or into hellfire, that never shall be quenched, 
where the worm of them dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 
That if thine eye cause thee to stumble, cast it out; it is better to thee to enter goggle-eyed into the realm of God (or it is better for thee to enter into the Kingdom of God with one eye), than (to) have two eyes, and (to) be sent into hell of fire, +or than having two eyes, to be sent into hellfire, 
where the worm of them dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 
And every man shall be salted with fire, and every slain sacrifice shall be made savoury with salt. +Forsooth every man shall be made savoury with fire, and every slain sacrifice shall be salted with salt. 
Salt is good; if salt be unsavoury, in what thing shall ye make it savoury? Have ye salt among you, and have ye peace among you. 
