1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 1.
Paul, called (an) apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, and Sosthenes, (a) brother, 
to the church of God that is at Corinth, to them that be hallowed in Christ Jesus, and called saints, (or to those who be consecrated in the Messiah Jesus, and be called God’s people), with all that inwardly call the name of our Lord Jesus Christ or with all that in-call the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, in each place of them and of ours (or in every place of theirs and of ours), 
grace (be) to you and (the) peace of God, our Father, and of the Lord Jesus Christ. 
I do thankings to my God (for)evermore for you, in the grace of God that is given to you in Christ Jesus. (I give thanks always to my God for you, for the grace of God which is given to you in the Messiah Jesus.) 
For in all things ye be made rich in him, in each word, and in each cunning, (or knowing), or science, (or in all knowledge), 
as the witnessing of Christ is confirmed in you; (as the testimony of the Messiah is confirmed in you;) 
so that nothing fail to you in any grace (or of any blessing), that abide the showing or the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ; 
which also shall confirm you into the end without crime, or great sin, in the day of the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
A true God or Forsooth God is true, by whom ye be called into the fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord. 
But, brethren, I beseech you, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all say the same thing, and that dissensions, or schisms, or divisions, or discords, be not among you; but be ye perfect in the same wit, (or in the same thinking, or of the same mind), and in the same cunning, (or the same knowing, or with the same knowledge). 
For, my brethren, it is told to me of them that be at Chloe’s, that strives (or arguments) be among you. 
And I say that, that each of you saith, For I am of Paul, and I am of Apollos, and I am of Cephas, that is, Peter, but I am of Christ. 
Whether Christ is parted? (or Is the Messiah divided?) whether Paul was crucified for you, either ye be baptized in the name of Paul? 
I do thankings to my God (or I give thanks to my God), that I baptized none of you, but Crispus and Gaius; 
lest any man say, that ye be baptized in my name. 
And I baptized also the house of Stephanas, but I know not, that I baptized any other. 
For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel or to evangelize; not in (the) wisdom of word(s), that the cross of Christ be not voided away (or so that the cross of the Messiah be made of no consequence). 
For the word of the cross is folly to them that perish; but to them that be made safe, that is to say, to us, it is the virtue of God. (For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who perish; but for those who be saved, that is to say, for us, it is the power of God.) 
For it is written, I shall destroy the wisdom of wise men, and I shall reprove the prudence of prudent men. 
Where is the wise man? where is the wise lawyer? or where is the writer, or the man of (the) law? where is the purchaser of this world? Whether God hath not made the wisdom of this world fond or foolish? 
For the world, in (the) wisdom of God, knew not God by wisdom, or For why for in the wisdom of God, the world knew not God by wisdom, it pleased to God, by the folly of preaching, to make them safe that believed, (or it pleased God, by the foolishness of preaching, to save those who believed). 
For Jews seek signs, and Greeks seek wisdom; 
but we preach Christ crucified, to the Jews (a) cause of stumbling, and to heathen men folly; (but we preach the crucified Messiah, to the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Gentiles foolishness;) 
but to those Jews and Greeks that be called, we preach Christ the virtue of God, and the wisdom of God. (but to those Jews and Greeks who be called, we preach the Messiah to be the power of God, and the wisdom of God.) 
For that that is (a) folly thing of God, is wiser than men; and that that is the feeble, or (the) frail, thing of God, is stronger than men. (For that which is a foolish thing of God, is wiser than men; and that which is the frail or the weak thing of God, is stronger than men.) 
But, brethren, see ye your calling, (or But, brothers, see to your calling); for not many (of you be) wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble. 
But God chose those things that be fond or that be foolish of the world, to confound wise men; and God chose the feeble, or (the) frail, things of the world, to confound the strong things; (But God chose those things that be foolish in the world, to shame the wise; and God chose the frail or the weak things of the world, to shame the strong;) 
and God chose the unnoble things and (the) despisable things of the world, and those things that be not, to destroy those things that be; 
that each man have not glory in his sight. (so that no one can boast in the presence of God or before God.) 
But of him ye be in Christ Jesus, which is made of God to us wisdom, and rightwiseness, and holiness, and again-buying; (For ye be in the Messiah Jesus, whom God made to be for us our wisdom, and righteousness, and holiness, and redemption;) 
that, as it is written, He that glorieth, have glory in the Lord. (so that, as it is written, He who boasteth, boast of the Lord.) 
