JOHN.
Chapter 19.
Therefore Pilate took then Jesus, and scourged him. +Therefore then Pilate took Jesus, and scourged him. 
And (the) knights wreathed a crown of thorns, and set (it), or put (it), on his head, and did about him a cloth of purple, and came to him, (And the soldiers wove, or plaited, a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and did about him a cloak of purple, and came to him,) 
and said, Hail, king of Jews. And they gave to him buffets. (and said, Hail, King of the Jews! And they gave him blows on his head and his body.) 
Again Pilate went out, and said to them, Lo! I bring him out to you, that ye know, that I find no cause (or crime worthy of death) in him. (And Pilate went out again, and said to them, Behold! I bring him back out to you now, so that ye know, that I find no case against him.) 
And so Jesus went out, bearing a crown of thorns, and a cloth of purple (or and a cloak of purple). And he saith to them, Lo! the man. 
But when the bishops and ministers had seen him, they cried, and said, Crucify, crucify him. Pilate saith to them, Take ye him, and crucify ye him, for I find no cause (or crime worthy of death) in him. (But when the high priests, and their servants, or their officers, had seen him, they cried, and said, Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate said to them, You take him, and you crucify him, for I find no case against him.) 
The Jews answered to him, We have a law, and by the law he oweth to die (or and by that law he ought to die), for he made him(self) God’s Son. 
Therefore when Pilate had heard this word, he dreaded the more, or he dreaded more, (or he was more fearful, or he was even more afraid). 
And he went into the moot hall again, and said to Jesus, Of whence art thou? (or And he went into the Hall of Judgement again, and said to Jesus, Where do you come from?) But Jesus gave none answer to him or Forsooth Jesus gave not (an) answer to him. 
Pilate saith to him, Speakest thou not to me? Knowest thou not, that I have power to crucify thee, and I have power to deliver thee? (or Knowest thou not, that I have the power to crucify thee, and I have the power to release thee or to let thee go?) 
Jesus answered, Thou shouldest not have any power against me, no but it were given to thee from above; therefore he that betook me to thee, hath the more sin, (or and so he who delivered me, or who handed me over to thee, hath done the greater sin). 
From that time Pilate sought to deliver him (or From that moment on, Pilate sought to release him); but the Jews cried, and said, If thou deliverest this man, thou art not the emperor’s friend; for each man that maketh himself king, gainsaith the emperor, or If thou leavest this man, (or if thou lettest this man go), thou art not the friend of Caesar; for each man that maketh himself king, against-saith Caesar. 
And Pilate, when he had heard these words, led Jesus forth, and sat for doomsman in a place, that is said Lycostratos, but in Hebrew Golgotha. (And Pilate, when he had heard these words, led Jesus forth, and sat as judge in a place, that is called Lycostratos, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha.) 
And it was pask eve, as it were the sixth hour, or Forsooth it was the making ready, or even, of pask, as the sixth hour, or midday. And he saith to the Jews, Lo! your king. (And it was the eve of Passover, about noon. And he said to the Jews, Behold! here is your king!) 
But they cried, and said, Take away, take away, or Do away, do away; crucify him. Pilate saith to them, Shall I crucify your king? The bishops answered, We have no king but the emperor, or We have not a king no but Caesar, (or The high priests answered, We have no king but Caesar!). 
And then Pilate betook him to them, that he should be crucified, (or And then Pilate delivered him, or handed him over to them, so that he could be crucified). And they took Jesus, and led him out. 
And he bare to himself a cross (or And he carried his own cross), and went out into that place, that is said (or is called) Calvary, (and) in Hebrew Golgotha; 
where they crucified him, and others twain with him, one on this side and one on that side, and Jesus in the middle. 
And Pilate wrote a title, and set (it), or put (it), on the cross; and it was written, Jesus of Nazareth, king of Jews, (or the King of the Jews). 
Therefore many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified, was nigh the city, and it was written in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. 
Therefore the bishops of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not thou write king of Jews, but that he said, I am king of Jews. (And so the high priests of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write The King of the Jews, but that he said, I am the King of the Jews.) 
Pilate answered, That that I have written, I have written. 
Therefore the knights when they had crucified him, took his clothes, and made four parts, to each knight a part, and (there was also) a coat. And the coat was without seam, and woven all about. (And so the soldiers when they had crucified him, took his clothes, and divided them into four parts, to each soldier one part, and there was also a cloak or a robe. And the cloak or the robe was without a seam, and woven in one piece.) 
Therefore they said together, Cut we not it, but cast we lot(s), whose it is; that the scripture be fulfilled, saying, They parted my clothes to them, and on my cloth they cast lot(s). And the knights did these things. (And so they said to each other, We shall not cut it, but rather we shall throw dice, to see whose it is; so that the Scripture be fulfilled, saying, They divided my clothes among themselves, and for my cloak or my robe they threw dice. And the soldiers did these things.) 
But beside the cross of Jesus stood his mother, and the sister of his mother, Mary Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. 
Therefore when Jesus had seen his mother, and the disciple standing (there), whom he loved, he saith to his mother, Woman, lo! thy son. 
Afterward he saith to the disciple, Lo! thy mother. And from that hour the disciple took her into (or as) his (own)mother. 
Afterward Jesus witting, that now all things be ended, (so) that the scripture were fulfilled, he saith, I thirst. 
And a vessel was set (there) full of vinegar. And they laid in hyssop about the sponge full of vinegar, and put (it) to his mouth./And a vessel was set (there) full of eisell. And they took a sponge full of eisell, putting it about with hyssop, and proffered it to his mouth. 
Therefore when Jesus had taken the vinegar, he said, It is ended. And when his head was bowed down, he gave up the ghost./And when Jesus had tasted this eisell, he said, It is ended. And he bowed down the head, and sent out the spirit. 
Therefore for it was the pask eve, that the bodies should not abide or dwell on the cross in the sabbath, for that was a great sabbath day, the Jews prayed Pilate, that the hips of them should be broken, and they should be taken away. (And so because it was the eve of Passover, so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for that was a Great Sabbath day, the Jews beseeched Pilate, that their hips should be broken, and that they should be taken away.) 
Therefore (the) knights came (or And so the soldiers came), and they brake the thighs of the first, and of the other, that was crucified with him. 
But when they were come to Jesus or Forsooth when they had come to Jesus, as they saw him dead then, they brake not his thighs; 
but one of the knights opened his side with a spear, and anon blood and water went out. (but one of the soldiers opened his side with a spear, and at once blood and water went out.) 
And he that saw (this), bare witnessing thereof, and his witnessing is true; and he knoweth that he saith true things, (so) that ye (can) believe. (And he who saw this, testified to it, and his testimony is true; and he knoweth that he saith true things, so that ye can believe.) 
And these things were done, (so) that the scripture should be fulfilled, Ye shall not break a bone of him. 
And again another scripture saith, They shall see in whom they pierced through. 
But after these things Joseph of Arimathaea prayed Pilate, that he should take away the body of Jesus, for that he was a disciple of Jesus, but privily for dread of the Jews. And Pilate suffered (him). And so he came, and took away the body of Jesus. (But after these things Joseph of Arimathaea beseeched Pilate, so that he could take away the body of Jesus, because he was a disciple of Jesus, but privately, or in secret, for fear of the Jews. And Pilate allowed him. And so he came, and took away the body of Jesus.) 
And Nicodemus came also, that had come to him first by night, or that had come to Jesus first in the night, (or who had first come to Jesus in the night), and brought a meddling, (or a medley, or a mixture), of myrrh and aloes, as it were an hundred pound. 
And they took (down) the body of Jesus, and bound it in linen clothes with sweet smelling ointments or spices, as it is (the) custom to Jews for to bury (or as is the custom of the Jews for burial). 
And in the place where he was crucified, was a garden, and in the garden a new grave (or and in the garden was a new tomb), in which yet no man was laid or in which not yet any man was put. 
Therefore there they put Jesus, for the vigil of (the) Jews’ feast, for the sepulchre was nigh. (And so they put Jesus there, because it was the eve of the Jews’ Feast, or Festival, and the tomb was nearby.)Therefore there for the making ready (day) of (the) Jews, for the sepulchre was nigh, they put Jesus. (And so because it was the preparation day of the Jews, and the tomb was nearby, they put Jesus there.) 
