GENESIS.
Chapter 5.
This is the book of the generation(s) of Adam, in the day wherein God made man of nought. God made man to the image and likeness of God; (This is the book of the descendants of Adam. On the day when God made man out of nothing, God made man in the image and likeness of God;) 
God formed them male and female, and blessed them, and called the name of them Adam, in the day in which they were formed. (God formed them male and female, and blessed them, and called their name Man, on the day when they were formed.) 
Forsooth Adam lived an hundred years and thirty, and begat a son to his image and likeness, and called his name Seth. (And Adam lived a hundred and thirty years, and then begat a son in his image and likeness, and called his name Seth.) 
And the days of Adam after that he begat Seth were made eight hundred years, and he begat sons and daughters. 
And all the time in which Adam lived was made nine hundred years and thirty, and he was dead. (And all the time in which Adam lived was nine hundred and thirty years, and then he died.) 
And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and (then) begat Enos. 
And Seth lived after that he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Seth were made nine hundred and twelve years, and (then) he was dead. 
Forsooth Enos lived ninety years, and (then) begat Cainan; 
after whose birth Enos lived eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Enos were made nine hundred and five years, and (then) he was dead. 
Also Cainan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalaleel. (And Cainan lived seventy years, and then begat Mahalaleel.) 
And Cainan lived after that he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Cainan were made nine hundred and ten years, and (then) he was dead. 
Forsooth Mahalaleel lived sixty years and five, and begat Jared. (And Mahalaleel lived sixty-five years, and then begat Jared.) 
And Mahalaleel lived after that he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Mahalaleel were made eight hundred and ninety and five years, and (then) he was dead. 
And Jared lived an hundred and two and sixty years, and (then) begat Enoch. 
And Jared lived after that he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Jared were made nine hundred and two and sixty years, and (then) he was dead. 
Forsooth Enoch lived five and sixty years, and (then) begat Methuselah. 
And Enoch went with God (or And Enoch walked with God); and Enoch lived after that he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred and five and sixty years. 
And Enoch went with God (or And Enoch walked with God), and appeared not afterward, for God took him away. 
Also Methuselah lived an hundred and seven and eighty years, and begat Lamech. (And Methuselah lived a hundred and eighty-seven years, and then begat Lamech.) 
And Methuselah lived after that he begat Lamech seven hundred and two and eighty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And all the days of Methuselah were made nine hundred and nine and sixty years, and (then) he was dead. 
Forsooth Lamech lived an hundred and two and eighty years, and (then) begat a son; 
and he called his name Noe, and said, This man shall comfort us of the works and travails of our hands, in the land which the Lord cursed. (and he called his name Noah, and said, This son shall bring us comfort from all the work and labour of our hands, on the land which the Lord hath cursed.) 
And Lamech lived after that he begat Noe five hundred and ninety and five years, and begat sons and daughters. (And after that he begat Noah, Lamech lived five hundred and ninety-five years, and begat sons and daughters.) 
And all the days of Lamech were made seven hundred and seventy and seven years, and he was dead. (And all the days of Lamech were made seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and then he died.) 
Forsooth Noe, when he was of five hundred years, begat Shem, Ham, and Japheth. (And Noah, when he was five hundred years old, begat Shem, Ham, and Japheth.) 
