JOHN.
Chapter 12.
Therefore Jesus before six days of pask came to Bethany, where Lazarus had been dead, whom Jesus raised (from the dead). (And so six days before the Passover Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus had died, whom Jesus had raised from the dead.) 
And they made to him a supper there, and Martha ministered to him; and Lazarus was one of the men that sat at the meat with him. (And they made a supper for him there, and Martha served him; and Lazarus was one of the men who sat at the meal with him.) 
Therefore Mary took a pound of ointment of true nard or spikenard precious, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hairs; and the house was full-filled with the savour of the ointment. 
Therefore Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, that was to betray him, said, 
Why is not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given to poor men? (Why is this ointment not sold for three hundred pennies, and that given to the poor?) 
But he said this thing, not for it pertained to him of needy men, but for he was a thief, and had the purses, and bare those things that were sent (into them), (or and carried off whatever was put into them). 
Therefore Jesus said, Suffer ye her, that into the day of my burying she keep that (which is left); (And so Jesus said, Allow her, or Let her, do this, so that on the day of my burial she can use what is left;) 
for ye shall (for)evermore have poor men with you, but ye shall not (for)evermore have me. (for ye shall always have the poor with you, but ye shall not always have me.) 
Therefore much people of the Jews knew, that Jesus was there; and they came, not only for Jesus, but to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from death or whom he raised from (the) dead. 
But the princes of (the) priests thought, or sought, to slay Lazarus, (And so the high priests also made plans to kill Lazarus,) 
for many of the Jews went away for him, and believed in Jesus. 
But on the morrow much people, that came together to the feast day, when they had heard, that Jesus came to Jerusalem, (But the next morning, many people who had come for the Feast Day, or the Festival, when they had heard, that Jesus had come to Jerusalem,) 
took branches of palms, and came forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel, that cometh in the name of the Lord. 
And Jesus found a young ass, and sat on him, as it is written, 
The daughter of Sion, do not thou dread, (or The daughter of Zion, do not fear); lo! thy king cometh, sitting on an ass’s foal or sitting on the colt of a she-ass. 
His disciples knew not (at) first these things, but when Jesus was glorified, then they had mind, that these things were written of him, and these things they did to him. (His disciples at first did not understand the meaning of these things, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered, that these things were written about him, and that the people had done these things for him.) 
Therefore the people bare witnessing, that was with him, when he called Lazarus from the grave, and raised him from death or and raised him from (the) dead. (And so the people, who were with him, when he called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, testified about that.) 
And therefore the people came, and met with him, for they heard that he had done this sign (or this miracle). 
Therefore the Pharisees said to themselves, Ye see, that we profit nothing; lo! all the world hath gone after him. 
And there were some heathen men, of them that had come up to worship in the feast day. (And there were some Gentiles, among those who had come to worship on the Feast Day or at the Festival.) 
And these came to Philip, that was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and prayed him, and said, Sire, we will see Jesus, or Sire, we would (like to) see Jesus. (And they came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and beseeched him, and said, Sir, we want to see Jesus.) 
Philip cometh, and saith to Andrew; and again Andrew and Philip said to Jesus. 
And Jesus answered to them, and said, The hour cometh, that man’s Son be clarified, (or The time hath come, for man’s Son to be glorified). 
Truly, truly, I say to you, no but a corn of wheat fall into the earth, and be dead, (or Truly, I tell you the truth, unless a kernel, or a grain, of wheat fall into the earth, and it die), it dwelleth alone; but if it be dead, it bringeth forth much fruit. 
He that loveth his life, shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world, keepeth it into everlasting life (or keepeth it safe for eternal life). 
If any man serve me, (pur)sue he me (or follow me); and where I am, there my minister or my servant shall be. If any man serve me, my Father shall worship him (or my Father shall honour him). 
Now my soul is troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour; but therefore I came into this hour or but for that thing I came into this hour; 
Father, clarify thy name. And a voice came from heaven, and said, And I have clarified (it), and again I shall clarify (it). (Father, glorify thy name. And a voice came from heaven, and said, I have glorified it, and I shall glorify it again.) 
Therefore the people that stood (there), and heard, said, that thunder was made; other men said, an angel spake to him. 
Jesus answered, and said, This voice came not for me, but for you. 
Now is the doom of the world, now the prince of this world shall be cast out. (Now is the Judgement of this world, now the Prince of this world shall be thrown out.) 
And if I shall be enhanced from the earth, I shall draw all things to myself. (And if I shall be raised or lifted up from the earth, then I shall draw everyone to me.) 
And he said this thing, signifying by what death he was to die. 
And the people answered to him, We have heard of the law, that Christ dwelleth into without end; and how sayest thou, It behooveth man’s Son to be areared? Who is this man’s Son? (And the people said to him, We have heard in the Law, that the Messiah remaineth forever; so how sayest thou, It behooveth the Son of man to be raised up? Who is this Son of man?) 
And then Jesus saith to them, Yet a little light is in you; walk ye, the while ye have light, that (the) darkness(es) catch you not; he that wandereth in (the) darknesses, knoweth not whither he goeth. (And then Jesus said to them, Yet a little light is in you, or There is but a little light left to you; walk ye, the while ye have the light, so that the darkness catch you not; he who walketh, or who goeth, in the darkness, knoweth not where he goeth.) 
While ye have (the) light, believe ye in the light, (so) that ye be the children of (the) light. Jesus spake these things, and went, and hid him(self) from them. 
And when he had done so many miracles or so many signs before them, they believed not in him; (And though he had done so many miracles before them, they still did not believe in him;) 
that the word of Esaias, the prophet, should be fulfilled, which he said, Lord, who hath believed to our hearing, and to whom is the arm of the Lord showed? (so that the word of the prophet Isaiah would be fulfilled, when he said, Lord, who hath believed our message, and to whom is the Lord’s power shown or revealed?) 
Therefore they might not believe, for again Esaias said, (And so they could not believe, for again Isaiah said,) 
He hath blinded their eyes, and hath made hard the heart(s) of them, (so) that they see not with (their) eyes, and understand not with (their) heart(s); and that they be converted, and I heal them. 
Esaias said these things, when he saw the glory of him, and spake of him. (Isaiah said these things, when he saw his glory, and spoke about him.) 
Nevertheless of the princes, many believed in him, but for the Pharisees they acknowledged not, that they should not be put out of the synagogue; (Nevertheless, among the leaders, many believed in him, but because of the Pharisees they did not acknowledge him publicly, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue;) 
for they loved the glory of men, more than the glory of God. 
And Jesus cried, and said, He that believeth in me, believeth not in me, but in him that sent me (or but in him who sent me). 
He that seeth me, seeth him that sent me. 
I (as a) light came into the world, that each that believeth in me, dwell not in (the) darknesses. (I came as a light into the world, so that everyone who believeth in me, remain not in darkness.) 
And if any man heareth my words, and keepeth them not, I deem him not; for I came not, that I deem the world, but that I make the world safe. (And if anyone heareth my words, and obeyeth them not, I do not judge that person; for I came not, that I judge the world, but that I save the world.) 
He that despiseth me, and taketh not my words, hath him that shall judge him; that word that I have spoken or the word that I have spoken, shall deem him in the last day. (He who despiseth me, and receiveth not my words, hath that which shall judge him; yea, the words that I have spoken, will judge him on the Last Day.) 
For I have not spoken of myself, but that Father that sent me, he gave to me a commandment, what I shall say, and what I shall speak. 
And I know, that his commandment is everlasting life (or that his command bringeth eternal life); therefore those things that I speak, as the Father said to me, so I speak. 
