JOHN.
Chapter 15.
I am a very vine, and my Father is an earth-tiller. (I am the true vine, and my Father is the farmer.) 
Each branch in me that beareth not fruit, he shall take away it (or he shall take it away); and each that beareth fruit, he shall purge it, (so) that it bear the more fruit. Each scion, or branch, not bearing fruit in me, he shall do it away; and each that beareth fruit, he shall purge it, (so) that it bear more fruit. 
Now ye be (made) clean, for the word that I have spoken to you. (Now ye be cleansed, or ye be purified, by the words which I have spoken to you.) 
Dwell ye in me, and I in you; as a branch may not make fruit of itself, no but it dwell in the vine, so neither ye, no but ye dwell in me. (Remain in me, and I in you; for a branch cannot make fruit by itself, unless it remain on the vine, so neither can ye, unless ye remain in me.) 
I am the vine, ye be the branches. Who that dwelleth (or remaineth) in me or He that dwelleth in me, and I in him, this beareth much fruit, for without me ye may nothing do (or for ye can do nothing without me). 
If any man dwelleth not in me, he shall be cast out as a branch, and shall wax dry; and they shall gather him (up), and they shall cast him into the fire, and he shall burn. (If anyone remaineth not in me, he shall be thrown out like a branch, and shall grow dry; and they shall gather him up, and they shall throw him into the fire, and he shall be burned up.) 
If ye dwell in me, and my words dwell in you, whatever thing ye will, ye shall ask (for it), and it shall be done to you. (If ye remain in me, and my words remain in you, whatever that ye want, ye shall ask for it, and it shall be done for you.) 
In this thing my Father is clarified (or My Father is glorified in this), that ye bring forth full much fruit, and that ye be made my disciples. 
As my Father loved me, I have loved you; dwell ye in my love (or remain in my love). 
If ye keep my commandments, ye shall dwell in my love; as I have kept the commandments of my Father, and dwell in his love. (If ye obey my commandments, ye shall remain in my love; as I have obeyed my Father’s commandments, and remain in his love.) 
These things I spake to you, (so) that my joy be in you, and your joy be full-filled (or and that your joy be filled full). 
This is my commandment, that ye love together (or that ye love one another), as I have loved you. 
No man hath more love than this, that a man put (forth) his life for his friends. 
Ye be my friends if ye do those things, that I command to you. 
Now I shall not call you servants, for the servant knoweth not, what his lord shall do; but I have called you friends, for all (the) things whatever I heard of my Father, I have made known to you. 
Ye have not chosen me, but I chose you; and I have put you, that ye go, and bring forth fruit, and your fruit dwell; that whatever thing ye ask the Father in my name, he give to you. (Ye have not chosen me, but I chose you; and I have ordained you, so that ye go, and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit remain; so that whatever ye ask the Father for in my name, he shall give it to you.) 
These things I command to you, that ye love together (or that ye love one another). 
If the world hate you, know ye, that it had me in hate rather than you. 
If ye had been of the world, the world should love that thing that was his (or the world would love that which was its own); but for ye be not of the world, but I chose you from the world, therefore the world hateth you. 
Have ye mind of my word(s), which I said to you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have pursued me, they shall pursue you also; if they have kept my word, they shall keep yours also. (Remember my words, which I said to you, The servant is not greater than his lord or master. If they have persecuted me, they shall also persecute you; if they have obeyed my words, they shall also obey yours.) 
But they shall do to you all these things for my name, for they know not him that sent me. 
If I had not come, and had not spoken to them, they should not have sin; but now they have none excusation or not excusing of their sin. (If I had not come, and had not spoken to them, they would not be guilty of sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin.) 
He that hateth me, hateth also my Father. 
If I had not done the works in them, which none other man did, they should not have sin, (or If I had not done the works among them, which no other man hath ever done, they would not be guilty of sin); but now both they have seen, and have hated me and my Father. 
But that the word be fulfilled, that is written in their law, For they had me in hate without cause. (So that the word be fulfilled, that is written in their Law, For they hated me for no good reason.) 
But when the Comforter shall come, which I shall send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, which cometh forth or proceedeth of the Father, he shall bear witnessing of me; (But when the Comforter shall come, whom I shall send to you from the Father, yea the Spirit of Truth, who cometh forth from the Father, he shall testify about me;) 
and ye shall bear witnessing (or ye shall testify), for ye be with me from the beginning. 
