MATTHEW.
Chapter 21.
And when Jesus came nigh to Jerusalem, and came to Bethphage, at the mount of Olives, then sent he his two disciples, And when Jesus came nigh to Jerusalem, and came to Bethphage, to the mount of Olives, then Jesus sent his two disciples, 
and said to them, Go ye into the castle that is against you, and anon ye shall find an ass tied (up), and a colt with her; untie ye, and bring (them) to me. (and said to them, Go ye into the village that is opposite you, and at once ye shall find a donkey tied up, and a colt with her; untie them, and bring them to me.) 
And if any man say to you anything, say ye, that the Lord hath need to them; and anon he shall leave them. (And if anyone say anything to you, say, that the Lord hath need of them; and then at once, he shall let them go, or come here.) 
All this was done, that that thing should be fulfilled, that was said by the prophet, saying, 
Say ye to the daughter of Sion (or Say to the daughter of Zion), Lo! thy king cometh to thee, meek, sitting on an ass, and a foal or a colt of an ass under yoke. 
And the disciples went, and did as Jesus commanded to them. 
And they brought an ass, and the foal or the colt, and laid their clothes on them, and made him to sit above. (And they brought the donkey, and the colt, and laid their clothes on them, and had him sit upon the donkey.) 
And full much people spreaded their clothes in the way; others cutted branches of (the) trees, and strewed in the way. (And many people spread their clothes on the way, or on the road; others cut off branches from the trees, and strew them on the way.) 
And the people that went before, and that (pur)sued (or who followed), cried, and said, Hosanna to the son of David; blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in high things, or Hosanna in the highest things, (or Hosanna in the highest). 
And when he was entered into Jerusalem, all the city was stirred, and said, Who is this? 
But the people said, This is Jesus, the prophet, of Nazareth of Galilee. 
And Jesus entered into the temple of God, and cast out of the temple all that bought and sold; and he turned upside-down the boards of (the)(money-)changers, and the chairs of men that sold culvers. (And Jesus entered into the Temple of God, and threw out of the Temple all who bought and sold; and he turned upside-down the tables of the money-changers, and the chairs of men who sold doves and pigeons.) 
And he said to them, It is written, Mine house shall be called an house of prayer (or My House shall be called a House of Prayer); but ye have made it (into) a den of thieves. 
And (the) blind and (the) crooked came to him in the temple, and he healed them. (And the blind and the lame came to him in the Temple, and he healed them.) 
But the princes of (the) priests, and the scribes, (or But the high priests, and the scribes), seeing the marvelous or the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying in the temple, and saying, Hosanna to the son of David, they had indignation or disdain, 
and said to him, Hearest thou what these say? And Jesus said to them, Yea; whether ye have never read, That (out) of the mouth(s) of young children, and of suckling children, thou hast made perfect praising? 
And when he had left them, he went forth out of the city, into Bethany; and there he dwelt, and taught them of the kingdom of God. 
But on the morrow, he, turning again into the city, hungered. (But the next morning, as he returned to the city, he was hungry.) 
And he saw a fig tree beside the way, and came to it, and found nothing therein or nothing thereon, no but leaves only. And he said to it, Never fruit come forth of thee or Never be fruit born of thee, into without end. And anon the fig tree was dried up (or And at once the fig tree dried up). 
And the disciples saw, and wondered, saying, How anon it dried, or How it dried up anon, (or How at once, or so quickly, it dried up). 
And Jesus answered, and said to them, Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), if ye have faith, and doubt not, not only ye shall do of the fig tree, but also if ye say to this hill, Take away thee, and cast thee into the sea, (or Go away, and throw thyself into the sea), it shall be done so or it shall be done. 
And all things whatever ye believing shall ask (for) in prayer, ye shall take (or ye shall receive them). 
And when he came into the temple, the princes of (the) priests, and (the) elder men of the people, (or the high priests, and the elders of the people), came to him that taught, or came to him (while he was) teaching, and said, In what power doest thou these things? and who gave to thee this power? 
Jesus answered, and said to them, And I shall ask you one word (or And I shall ask you one question), the which if ye tell me, I shall say to you, in what power I do these things. 
Of whence was the baptism of John; of heaven, or of men? And they thought within themselves, saying, If we say of heaven, he shall say to us, Why then believe ye not to him? (From where was the baptism of John; from heaven, or from men? And they thought within themselves, saying, If we say from heaven, he shall say to us, Then why did ye not believe him?) 
If we say of men, we dread the people, for all had John as a prophet. (If we say from men, we fear the people, for everyone believed that John was a prophet.) 
And they answered to Jesus, and said, We know not. And he said to them, Neither I say to you, in what power I do these things. 
But what seemeth to you? A man had two sons; and he came to the first, and said, Son, go work this day in my vineyard. 
And he answered, and said, I will not; but afterward he forthought, and went forth, or but afterward he stirred by penance, or forthinking, (or repenting), went, (or but later he repented, and went, and worked). 
But he came to the other, and said in like manner. And he answered, and said, Lord, I go; and he went not (or but he did not go). 
Who of the twain did the father’s will? They say to him, The first. Jesus saith to them, Truly I say to you, for publicans and whores shall go before you into the kingdom of God. (Which of the two did the father’s will? They said to him, The first one. Then Jesus said to them, I tell you the truth, tax collectors and prostitutes now go ahead of you into the Kingdom of God.) 
For John came to you in the way of rightwiseness, and ye believed not to him; but publicans and whores believed to him. But ye saw, and had no forthinking after, that ye believed to him, or But ye seeing, had not penance afterward, that ye should believe to him. (For John came to you by the way of righteousness, and ye did not believe him; but tax collectors and prostitutes believed him. Yes, ye saw this, but ye had no repenting later, so that ye believed him.) 
Hear ye another parable. There was an husbandman, that planted a vineyard, and hedged it about, and delved a presser therein, and builded a tower, and hired it to earth-tillers, and went far (away) in pilgrimage. (Listen to another parable. There was a landowner, who planted a vineyard, and hedged it about, and dug a hole for a winepress in it, and built a look-out tower, and rented the land to farmers, and then went on a journey.) 
And when the time of fruits nighed, he sent his servants to the earth-tillers, to take (the) fruits of it. (And when the time of fruits approached, he sent his servants to the farmers, to receive some of its fruits.) 
And the earth-tillers took his servants, and they beat one, they slew another, and stoned another. 
Again he sent other servants, more than the first, and in like manner they did to them or and they did to them in like manner. 
And at the last he sent his son to them, and said, They shall dread my son. (And finally he sent his son to them, and said, They shall fear my son, or They shall show reverence, or respect, for my son.) 
But the earth-tillers, seeing the son, said within themselves, This is the heir; come ye, slay we him, and we shall have his heritage. (But the farmers, seeing the son, said to each other, He is the heir; come, let us kill him, and then we shall get his inheritance.) 
And they took him, and casted him out of the vineyard, and slew him. (And they took him, and threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him.) 
Therefore when the lord of the vineyard shall come, what shall he do to those earth-tillers? 
They say to him, He shall lose evil (or He shall destroy evil), (yea), the evil men, and he shall set to hire his vineyard to other earth-tillers, which shall yield to him (the) fruit in their times. 
Jesus saith to them, Read ye never in (the) scriptures, The stone which the builders reproved, this is made into the head of the corner? Of the Lord this thing is done, and it is marvelous or it is wonderful in our eyes. 
Therefore I say to you, that the kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and it shall be given to a folk doing the fruits of it. (And so I tell you, that the Kingdom of God shall be taken away from you, and it shall be given to a nation and a people bringing forth its proper fruits.) 
And he that shall fall on this stone, shall be broken; but on whom it shall fall, it shall bruise him or it shall pound him all to pieces. 
And when the princes of (the) priests, and the Pharisees had heard his parables, they knew that he said of them. (And when the high priests, and the Pharisees had heard his parables, they knew that he had spoken about them.) 
And they sought to (take) hold (of) him, but they dreaded the people (or but they feared the people), for they had him as a prophet. 
