1ST TIMOTHY.
Chapter 5.
Blame thou not an elder man (or Do not admonish, or rebuke, an older man), but beseech him as a father, young men as brethren; 
old women as mothers, young women as sisters, in all chastity. 
Honour thou the widows, that be very widows. (Honour the widows, who be true widows, or who be all alone.) 
But if any widow hath children of sons, learn she first to govern her house, and requite to (her) father and mother; for this thing is accepted before God, (or for this is acceptable before God, or for God approveth of this). 
And she that is a widow verily, and desolate, hope she into God, (or And she who is truly a widow, and desolate, let her put her hope in God), and be busy in beseechings and prayers night and day. 
For she that is living in delights, is dead in (her) soul. 
And command thou this thing, (so) that they be without reproof. 
For if any man hath not care of his own, and most(ly) of his household members (or of his own family), he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an unfaithful, or (a) heathen, man. 
A widow be chosen into the temple not less than sixty years (old), that was (the) wife of one husband, 
and hath witnessing in good works (or and hath testimony of good works), (yea), if she nourished children, if she received poor men to harbour, if she hath washed the feet of holy men, if she ministered to men that suffered tribulation, if she followed all good work(s). 
But eschew thou younger widows; for when they have done lechery, they will be wedded in Christ, or forsooth when they have done lechery in Christ, they will be wedded, (But shun younger widows; for when, while yet in the Messiah, they shall feel passion, or shall do lechery, and they will be wedded,) 
having damnation (or and so shall receive condemnation), for they have made void the(ir) first faith. 
Also they (being) idle learn to go about houses, not only idle, but they be full of words and curious or and curiosity, speaking things that it behooveth not. 
Therefore I will (or And so I desire), that younger widows be wedded, and bring forth children, and be housewives, to give none occasion to the adversary, because of (any) cursed thing. 
For now some be turned aback after Satan. 
If any faithful man hath widows, minister he to them, that the church be not charged, that it suffice to them that be very widows. (If anyone in the faith hath a widow in their family, let them minister unto her, so that the church be not burdened, and so that it can provide sufficiently for those who be true widows, or who be all alone.) 
The priests that be well governors, that is, (that) truly keep well (the) priesthood, be they had worthy to double honour; most(ly) they that travail in word and teaching (or and most of all those who labour in speaking and teaching). 
For the scripture saith, Thou shalt not bridle the mouth of the ox threshing, and, A workman is worthy (of) his hire (or A worker is worthy of their wages). 
Do not thou receive accusing against a priest, no but under twain or three witnesses. 
But reprove thou men that sin before all men, that also others have dread. (And rebuke those who sin before everyone, so that others also have fearful reverence.) 
I pray thee or I adjure thee before God, and Jesus Christ, (or I beseech thee before God, and Jesus Christ), and his chosen angels, that thou keep these things without prejudice, and do nothing in bowing to the other side. 
Put thou hands to no man, neither anon commune thou with other men’s sins. Keep thyself chaste. Put thou hands to no man soon, neither commune thou with other men’s sins. Keep thyself chaste.(Do not at once, or too hastily, lay hands upon any man for ordination, nor share thou in other men’s sinning. Keep thyself pure.) 
Do not thou yet drink water, but use a little wine, for thy stomach, and for thine oft falling infirmities. 
Some men’s sins be open, before going to doom (or before going unto Judgement); but of some men they come after or they follow. 
And also good deeds be open, and those that have them in other manner, may not be hid. (And some good deeds be done in the open, but those which be not, cannot be kept hidden forever.) 
