JOHN.
Chapter 6.
After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, that is (also called the Sea of) Tiberias. (After these things Jesus went over Lake Galilee, that is also called Lake Tiberias.) 
And a great multitude (pur)sued him; for they saw the tokens that he did on them that were sick. (And a great multitude followed him; for they saw the signs or miracles that he did for those who were sick.) 
Therefore Jesus went into an hill (or And so Jesus went up onto a hill), and sat there with his disciples. 
And the pask was full nigh, a feast day of the Jews. (And the Passover was very near, a Feast Day, or a Festival, for the Jews.) 
Therefore when Jesus had lifted up his eyes, and had seen, that a great multitude came to him, he saith to Philip, Whereof shall we buy loaves, (so) that these men eat? 
But he said this thing, tempting him (or testing him); for he knew what he was to do. 
Philip answered to him, The loaves of two hundred pence suffice not to them, (so) that each man (can) take a little (some)what. 
One of his disciples, Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, saith to him, 
A child is here, that hath five barley loaves and two fishes; but what be these among so many? 
Therefore Jesus saith, Make them sit to the meat. And there was much hay in the place. And so men sat to the meat, as five thousand in number. Therefore Jesus saith, Make ye men to sit at the meat. Forsooth there was much hay in the place. Therefore men sat at the meat, in number as five thousand.(And so Jesus said, Make them to sit down for the meal. And there was much hay in that place. And so the men sat down for the meal, five thousand in number.) 
And Jesus took the five loaves, and when he had done thankings, he parted (them) to the men that sat to the meat or he parted to men sitting at the meat, and also of the fishes, as much as they would. (And Jesus took the five loaves, and when he had given thanks, he divided them to those who sat down for the meal, and also the fish, as much as they wanted.) 
And when they were full-filled (or And when they were filled full), he said to his disciples, Gather ye (up) the remnants that be left, (so) that they perish not. 
And so they gathered, and filled twelve coffins, of the remnant(s) of the five barley loaves and two fishes, that (were) left to them that had eaten. (And so they gathered up, and filled twelve baskets, with the remnants of the five barley loaves and the two fish, that were left by those who had eaten.) 
Therefore those men, when they had seen the sign or the token, or (the) miracle, that he had done, said, For this is verily the prophet (or For he is truly the Prophet), that is to come into the world. 
And when Jesus had known, that they were to come to take him, and make him king, he flew alone again into an hill (or he went by himself into the hills). +Therefore when Jesus had known, that they were to come that they should ravish him, (or that they had come so that they could snatch him, or they could seize him), and make him king, he alone fled again into an hill. 
And when (the) eventide was come, his disciples went down to the sea. 
And they went up into a boat, and they came over the sea into Capernaum. And darknesses were made then (or And it became dark then), and Jesus was not come to them or and Jesus had not come to them. 
And for a great wind blew, the sea rose up. 
Therefore when they had rowed as five and twenty furlongs or thirty, they saw Jesus walking on the sea, and to be nigh the boat; and they dreaded, (or and they had fear, or and they were afraid). 
And he said to them, I am (here); do not ye dread (or do not fear). 
Therefore they would take him into the boat, and anon the boat was at the land (or and at once the boat was at the land), to which they went. 
On the tother day (or On the next day), the people, that stood over the sea, saw, that there was none other boat there but that one, and that Jesus entered not with his disciples into the boat, but his disciples alone went or but his disciples went alone. 
But other boats came from Tiberias beside the place, where they had eaten bread, and did thankings to God (or and gave thanks to God). 
Therefore when the people had seen, that Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they went up into boats, and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus. 
And when they had found him over the sea, they said to him, Rabbi (or Teacher), how camest thou hither? 
Jesus answered to them, and said, Truly, truly, I say to you (or Truly, I tell you the truth), ye seek me, not for ye saw the miracles, but for ye ate of the loaves, and were ful filled. 
Work ye not (for) meat that perisheth, but (for) that that dwelleth into everlasting life, which meat man’s Son shall give to you; for God the Father hath marked him. (Work not for the food that perisheth, but for that which remaineth unto eternal life, whichfood man’s Son shall give to you; for God the Father hath sealed him.) 
Therefore they said to him, What shall we do, (so) that we work the works of God? 
Jesus answered, and said to them, This is the work of God, that ye believe to him (or so that ye believe in him), whom he sent. 
Therefore they said to him, What token then doest thou, that we see, and believe to thee? what workest thou? (And so they said to him, Then what sign doest thou, so that we can see it, and believe in thee? what miracle workest thou?) 
Our fathers ate manna in (the) desert, as it is written, He gave to them bread from heaven to eat. 
Therefore Jesus saith to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Moses gave you not bread from heaven, but my Father giveth you very bread from heaven; (And so Jesus said to them, Truly, I tell you the truth, it is not Moses that gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father, who now giveth you the true bread from heaven;) 
for it is very bread that cometh down from heaven (or for it is the true bread which cometh down from heaven), and giveth life to the world. 
Therefore they said to him, Lord, (for)evermore give to us this bread. 
And Jesus said to them, I am (the) bread of life; he that cometh to me, shall not hunger; and he that believeth in me, shall never thirst. 
But I said to you, that ye have seen me, and ye believe(d) not. 
All thing(s) that the Father giveth to me, shall come to me; and I shall not cast him out, that cometh to me. (All those that the Father giveth to me, shall come to me; and I shall not throw him out, yea, anyone who cometh to me.) 
For I came down from heaven, not that I do my will, but the will of him that sent me. 
And this is the will of the Father that sent me, that all (the) thing(s) that the Father gave to me, I lose not or nought of it, but again-raise it in the last day. (And this is the will of the Father who sent me, that out of all those whom the Father gave to me, I shall not lose any of them, but I shall raise them all up on the Last Day.) 
And this is the will of my Father that sent me, that each man that seeth the Son, and believeth in him, have everlasting life; and I shall again-raise him in the last day. (And this is the will of my Father who sent me, that each person who seeth the Son, and believeth in him, have eternal life; and I shall raise each one up on the Last Day.) 
Therefore the Jews grudged of him (or And so the Jews grumbled about him), for he had said, I am (the) bread that came down from heaven. 
And they said, Whether this is not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we have known. How then saith he this, That I came down from heaven? 
Therefore Jesus answered, and said to them, Do not ye grudge together. (And so Jesus answered, and said to them, Do not grumble to each other.) 
No man may come to me, but if the Father that sent me, draw him, or no but the Father that sent me, draw him; and I shall again-raise him in the last day. (No one can come to me, unless the Father who sent me, draw him; and I shall raise each one up on the Last Day.) 
It is written in the prophets, And all men shall be able to be taught of God (or Everyone shall be taught by God). Each man that hath heard of the Father, and hath learned, cometh to me. 
Not for any man hath seen the Father, but this that is of God, hath seen the Father. (Not that anyone hath seen the Father, but he who is from God, hath seen the Father.) 
Soothly, soothly, I say to you, he that believeth in me, hath everlasting life. (Truly, truly, I say to you, or Truly, I tell you the truth, he who believeth in me, hath eternal life.) 
I am the bread of life. 
Your fathers ate manna in (the) desert, and be dead. 
This is (the) bread coming down from heaven, that if any man eat thereof, he die not, (or so that if anyone eat of it, they shall not die). 
I am (the) living bread, that came down from heaven. If any man eat of this bread, he shall live (into) without end. And the bread that I shall give, is my flesh for the life of the world. 
Therefore the Jews chided together, and said, How may this give to us his flesh to eat? 
Therefore Jesus saith to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, (or Truly, I tell you the truth), no but ye eat the flesh of man’s Son, and drink his blood, ye shall not have life in you. 
He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath everlasting life, and I shall again-raise him in the last day. (He who eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life, and I shall raise him up on the Last Day.) 
For my flesh is very meat, and my blood is very drink. (For my flesh is the true food, and my blood is the true drink.) 
He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him. 
As my Father living sent me, and I live for the Father, and he that eateth me, he shall live for me. (For the living Father sent me, and I live for the Father, and he who eateth me, shall live because of me.) 
This is (the) bread, that came down from heaven. Not as your fathers ate manna, and be dead; he that eateth this bread, shall live (into) without end. 
He said these things in the synagogue, teaching in Capernaum. 
Therefore many of his disciples hearing this, said, This word is hard, who may hear it? (And many of his disciples who heard this, said, This word is hard, who can bear to hear such words? or who can listen to such words?) 
But Jesus witting at or within himself, that his disciples grudged of this thing, said to them, This thing offendeth you? (And Jesus knowing within himself, that his disciples grumbled about this, said to them, This offendeth you?) 
Therefore if ye see man’s Son ascending up, where he was before? (And so what if ye see man’s Son ascending up, to the place where he was before?) 
It is the spirit that quickeneth, the flesh profiteth nothing; the words that I have spoken to you, be spirit and life. (It is the Spirit that giveth life, the flesh profiteth nothing; the words that I have spoken to you, be of the Spirit and of life.) 
But there be some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning, which were believing (or who believed in him), and who was to betray him. 
And he said, Therefore I said to you, that no man may come to me, no but it were given to him of my Father (or unless it was granted to him by my Father). 
From this time many of his disciples went aback, and went not now with him. 
Therefore Jesus said to the twelve, Whether ye will also go away? 
And Simon Peter answered to him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast words of everlasting life (or Thou hast the words of eternal life); 
and we believe, and have known, or and we have believed, and know, that thou art Christ (or that thou art the Messiah), the Son of God. 
Therefore Jesus answered to them, Whether I chose not you twelve, and one of you is a fiend? (or and yet one of you is a devil?) 
And he said this of Judas of Simon Iscariot, for this was to betray him, when he was one of the twelve. 
