ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 34.
Vain hope and a leasing (or a lie), to an unwise man; and dreams or swevens enhance unprudent men. 
As he that taketh or catcheth (at) a shadow, and pursueth wind, so and he that taketh heed to leasings seen, or to the seen leasings, or in vain dreams. 
After this thing is the sight of dreams or swevens; before the face of a man is the likeness of another man. 
What shall be cleansed of him that is unclean or Of the unclean, what shall be cleansed, and what true thing shall be said of a liar? 
False divining of error, and false divinings by chittering (or chattering) of birds, and dreams of witches, (all) is vanity. And as the heart of a woman travailing of or bearing (a) child, thine heart suffereth fantasies; 
no but visitation is sent out of (or from) the Highest, give thou not thine heart in (or to) those dreams. 
For why dreams have made many men for to err, and men hoping in those fell down. Many men forsooth swevens made to err, and (they) fell away hoping in them. 
The word of the law of God and of his prophets, shall be made perfect without leasing (or without lies); and wisdom in the mouth of a faithful man shall be made plain. 
What knoweth he, that is not assayed? A man assayed in many things, shall think many things; and he that learned many things, shall tell out understanding. 
He that is not assayed or not expert (or experienced), knoweth few things; forsooth he that is a fool in many things, shall multiply malice. 
What manner things know he, that is not assayed? He that is not planted, that is, hath not set root of (or in) understanding, and desire in (or for) good, shall be plenteous in wickedness or shall abound (in) shrewdness (or in depravity). I saw many things in telling out, and full many customs of words. 
Sometime I was in peril unto death, for the cause of these things; and I was delivered by the grace of God. 
The spirit of them that dread God is sought, and shall be blessed in the beholding of him. For why the hope of them is into God saving them; and the eyes of the Lord be into (or upon) them, that love him. 
He that dreadeth God, shall not tremble or quake for anything, and he shall not dread; for why God is his hope. 
The soul of him that dreadeth the Lord, is blessed. To whom beholdeth he, and who is his strength? 
The eyes of the Lord be on them that dread him. God is a defender of might, steadfastness or firmament of virtue, covering of (or from) heat, and a shadowing place of (or at) midday; beseeching of offending, that is, hearing beseeching for offenses, and help of (or from) falling, 
enhancing the soul, and lighten-ing the eyes, and giving health, and life, and blessing. 
The offering of him that offereth of wicked thing, that is, of thing gotten unjustly, is defouled; and the scornings of unjust men be not well pleasant or well-pleasing. 
The Lord alone is to them that abide him in the way of truth, and of rightfulness or of rightwiseness. The Highest approveth not (of) the gifts of wicked men, neither beholdeth in (or on) the offerings of wicked men, neither in (or for) the multitude of their sacrifices he shall do or shall have mercy to (or for their) sins. 
He that offereth sacrifice of the chattel or substance of poor men, is as he that slayeth the son in the sight of his father. 
The bread of needy men is the life of a poor man; he that defraudeth him, is a man of blood. 
He that taketh away bread (earn-ed) in (or with) sweat, is as he that slayeth his neighbour. He that shed-deth out blood, and he that doeth fraud to an hired man, be brethren. 
One building, and one destroy-ing; what profiteth it to them, no but travail? 
One praying, and one cursing; whose voice shall the Lord hear? 
What profiteth the washing of him, that is washed for a dead body, and toucheth again a dead body? 
So a man that fasteth in his sins, and again doing the same sins, what profiteth he in meeking himself? who shall hear his prayer? 
