EXODUS.
Chapter 38.
He made also the altar of burnt sacrifice of the wood of shittim, of five cubits by square, and of three cubits in height; (And he made the altar of burnt sacrifice out of shittim wood, or acacia, five cubits square, and three cubits in height;) 
whose horns came forth out of the corners, and he covered it with plates of brass. (whose horns came forth out of the corners, and he covered it with bronze plates.) 
And into the uses thereof he made ready of brass diverse vessels, cauldrons, tongs, fleshhooks, hooks, and firepans. (And he made diverse vessels out of bronze for use with it, yea, the cauldrons, tongs, fleshhooks, hooks, and firepans.) 
He made also the brazen griddle thereof, in (the) manner of a net, (or And he made its bronze griddle, which was like a net), and a firepan under it, (in) the midst of the altar. 
And he melted out four rings, by so many ends of the griddle, to put in the bars for to bear it; (And he made four bronze rings, to fasten to the four corners of the griddle, for the bars to be put through, to carry it;) 
and he made those same bars of the wood of shittim, and covered them with plates of brass. (and he made those bars out of shittim wood, or acacia, and covered them with bronze plates.) 
And he led them into the rings that stood forth in the sides of the altar. Forsooth that altar was not firm, but hollow of the building of the boards, and void within. (And he put them through the rings that were fastened to the sides of the altar. And that altar was not solid, but hollow, having been built out of boards, and so was empty within.) 
He made also a great washing vessel of brass, with his foundament, of the mirrors (of brass) of the women that watched in the great street of the tabernacle. (And he made a great bronze washing vessel, and its bronze foundation, or its bronze base, out of the bronze mirrors belonging to the women who served at the entrance to the Tabernacle of the Witnessing.) 
And he made the great porch, or (the) great entry, in whose south coast were the curtains of bis folded again, of an hundred cubits, (And he made the courtyard, on whose south side were curtains made out of finely woven linen, a hundred cubits long,) 
(and) twenty brazen pillars with their bases; the hooks of the pillars, and the holdings of those, were of silver; (with twenty bronze pillars, and their bronze bases; and the hooks of the pillars, and their bands, were made out of silver;) 
evenly at the north coast, the curtains, pillars, and bases, and the hooks of (the) pillars, and the holdings of those, were of the same measure, and work, and metal. (likewise on the north side, the curtains, the pillars, the bases, the hooks of the pillars, and their bands, all had the same measurements, and work, and metal, as those on the south side.) 
Forsooth in that coast that beholdeth to the west were curtains of fifty cubits, (and) ten brazen pillars with their bases; and the hooks of (the) pillars, and the holdings of those, were of silver. (And on the west side were curtains fifty cubits long, with ten bronze pillars, and their bronze bases; and the hooks of the pillars, and their bands, were made out of silver.) 
Soothly against the east he made ready curtains of fifty cubits, (And the east side, where the entrance to the Tabernacle was, was also fifty cubits long,) 
of which curtains one side had fifteen cubits, of three pillars with their bases; (and on one side of the entrance, he made curtains fifteen cubits long, with three pillars, and their bases;) 
and in the other side, for he made the entering of the tabernacle betwixt ever either, were curtains evenly of fifteen cubits, three pillars, and so many bases. (and on the other side of the entrance, he also made curtains fifteen cubits long, with three pillars, and their bases.) 
Bis folded again covered all the curtains of the great entry. (And all the curtains of the courtyard were made out of finely woven linen.) 
The bases of the pillars were of brass; forsooth the hooks of those pillars, and the holdings of them, were of silver; but also he covered with silver (the heads of) the pillars of the great entry. (The bases of the pillars were made out of bronze; and the hooks of the pillars, and their bands, were made out of silver; and the tops of the pillars in the courtyard were also made out of silver.) 
And in the entering thereof he made a curtain, by embroidery work, of jacinth, purple, vermilion, either red cloth, and of bis folded again, which curtain had twenty cubits in length, and the height was of five cubits, by the measure which all the curtains of the great entry had. (And for the entrance to the courtyard he made a curtain out of jacinth, and purple, and red silk twice-dyed, and finely woven linen, and embroidered it; which curtain was twenty cubits in length, and five cubits in height, the same measurements as the courtyard curtains.) 
Forsooth the pillars in the entering were four, with brazen bases, and the hooks of (the) pillars, and the holdings of those, were of silver; (And there were four pillars at the entrance, with bronze bases, and the hooks of the pillars, and their bands, were made out of silver;) 
and he made the brazen stakes of the tabernacle, and of the great entry, by compass. (and he made the bronze pegs for the Tabernacle, and for the courtyard all around it.) 
These be the numbers (of the amounts of metals) of the tabernacle of witnessing, that be numbered, by the commandment of Moses, in the ceremonies, that is, services, of Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron, the priest. (These be the numbers for the amounts of the metals used in the Tabernacle of the Witnessing, that be listed, by the commandment of Moses, and made by the Levites, under the hand, or under the authority, of Ithamar, the son of Aaron, the priest.) 
Which instruments Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the lineage of Judah, fulfilled; for the Lord commanded by Moses, (Which Tabernacle, and its purtenances, Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made; all of which the Lord commanded to Moses to be made.) 
while Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the lineage of Dan, was joined fellow to him, and he himself was a noble craftsman of wood, and a tapicer, that is, a weaver of diverse colours, and an embroiderer of jacinth, purple, vermilion, and bis. (And Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, was joined in fellowship with Bezaleel, and he himself was a noble craftsman of wood, and a tapicer, that is, a weaver of diverse colours, and an embroiderer in jacinth, and purple, and red silk twice-dyed, and fine linen.) 
All the gold that was spended in the work of the saintuary, and that was offered in gifts, was of nine and twenty talents, and of seven hundred and thirty shekels, at the measure of the saintuary. (All the gold that was used for the work of the sanctuary, and that was offered in gifts, was twenty-nine talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, by the measure of the sanctuary.) 
Forsooth the silver of (the) numbering of the people was an hundred hundreds, and a thousand and seven hundred and seventy (and five) shekels, at the weight of (the) saintuary, (And the silver gotten from the registering of the people was a hundred talents, and a thousand and seven hundred and seventy-five shekels, by the measure of the sanctuary,) 
half a shekel by each head of all that passed (by) to (be) number(ed), from twenty years and above, of six hundred thousand and three thousand, and five hundred and fifty men. (half a shekel from each man who was registered, twenty years and older, that is, from six hundred and three thousand, and five hundred and fifty men.) 
Furthermore there were an hundred talents of silver, of which the bases of the saintuary were melted out (al)together, and (the bases) of the entering, where the veil hangeth; an hundred bases were made of an hundred talents, for to each base was ordained a talent. (And furthermore there were a hundred talents of silver, out of which the bases, for the sanctuary, and for the entrance where the Veil hangeth, were melted out; one hundred bases were made out of one hundred talents, that is, one talent was used for each base.) 
Forsooth (from out) of a thousand (and) seven hundred and seventy and five shekels, he made the hooks of the pillars, and covered the heads of the pillars with silver (or and covered the tops of the pillars with silver). 
Also of brass were offered two and seventy thousand talents, and four hundred shekels over. (And of bronze, there were offered seventy talents, and two thousand and four hundred shekels.) 
Of which the bases in the entering of the tabernacle of witnessing were melted out, and the brazen altar, with his griddle, and all the vessels that pertain to the use thereof, (From which were melted out the bases for the entrance to the Tabernacle of the Witnessing, and the bronze altar, and its griddle, and all the vessels that pertain to its use,) 
and the bases of the great entry, as well in the compass, as in the entering thereof, and the stakes of the tabernacle, and of the great entry by compass. (and the bases for the pillars all around the courtyard, and its entrance, and the pegs for the Tabernacle, and for all around the courtyard.) 
