ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 25.
In three things it is pleased to my spirit, which be approved before God and men; the according of brethren, and (the) love of neighbours, and a man and woman well consenting to themselves. 
My soul hated three species, (or kinds), and I am grieved greatly to (or by) the soul of them; a poor man proud, and a rich man (that is a) liar, and an eld or old man (that is) a fool and unwitty (or unwise), or doted. 
How shalt thou find in thine eld (age) those things, which thou gather-ed not in thy youth? 
Doom of discretion is full fair in hoariness, either (an) eld man, or How fair the doom in hoariness, and to priests to know counsel. 
Wisdom is full fair to eld or old men, and glorious understanding, and counsel. 
The crown of eld men is in much cunning, (or knowing, or knowledge); and the glory of them is the dread of God. 
I magnified nine things unsus-pect(ed) of the heart; and I shall say the tenth thing by tongue to men. A man which living is merry in sons or A man that is joyed in sons living, and seeing the destroying of his enemies. 
He is blessed that dwelleth with a witty (or with a wise) woman, and he that fell not or not slidden by his tongue, and he that served not to men unworthy to himself. 
He is blessed that findeth a very (or a true) friend, and he that telleth out rightfulness to an ear hearing. 
He is full great that findeth wisdom and cunning (or knowing); but he is not above or over him that dreadeth God. 
The dread of God hath set itself above or over all things. Blessed is the man to whom it is given to have the dread of God; to whom shall he be likened, that holdeth that dread? 
The dread of God is the beginning of his love; forsooth the beginning of faith is to be fast-joined thereto or to him. 
The sorrow of (the) heart is each wound; and the wickedness of a woman is all malice. A leech (or A physician) shall see each wound, and (or but) not the wound of (the) heart; and all wickedness, and (or but) not the wickedness of a woman; 
and each covering or all hid thing, that is, (the) colouring of malice, and not the covering or the hid thing of haters; and each or all vengeance, and not the vengeance of enemies. 
None head is worse or wickeder than the head of an adder dwelling in (a) shadow; and none ire or wrath is above or over the ire of a woman. 
It shall please more to dwell with a lion and a dragon, than to dwell with a wicked woman. 
The wickedness of a woman changeth her face; and she blinded her cheer (or her face) as a bear doeth, and she shall show as a sack(cloth) in the midst of (her) neighbours. 
Her husband greatly wailed; and his wicked wife heard, and sighed a little, or hearing (her), sighed a little. 
All malice is short on (or is little compared to) the malice of a woman; the part or the lot of sinners, that is, the pain of hell, fall on her. 
As a going-up (or an ascent) full of gravel in (or to) the feet of an eld or old man, so is a woman (that is) a great jangler to a peaceable or quiet man. 
Behold thou not the fairness of a woman, and covet thou not a woman for (her) fairness. 
The ire and unreverence of a woman to her husband is a great shame (or reproof). If a woman hath the first dignity or (the) mastery, either chief governail, she is contrary to her husband. 
A low heart, and (a) sorrowful face, and (a) wound of death, is(from) a wicked woman. Feeble hands and knees unbound, (resulteth from) a woman that blesseth not her husband. 
The beginning of sin was made of (or by) a woman; and all we die by her. 
Give thou not issue to thy water, yea, not a little issue; neither to a wicked woman freedom, or leave, of going forth or going out. 
If she goeth not at thine hand, she shall shame thee in the sight of (thine) enemies. Cut her away from thy fleshes, lest evermore she mis-use thee. 
