GALATIANS.
Chapter 1.
Paul the apostle, not of men, nor by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father, that raised him from death or that raised him from (the) dead, 
and all the brethren that be with me, to the churches of Galatia, (and all the brothers who be with me, to the churches in Galatia,) 
grace (be) to you and (the) peace of God the Father, and of the Lord Jesus Christ, 
that gave himself for our sins, to deliver us from the present wicked world, by the will of God and our Father, 
to whom is honour and glory into worlds of worlds. Amen. (to whom be honour and glory forever and ever. Amen.) 
I wonder, that so soon ye be thus moved from him that called you into the grace of Christ, into another evangel or into another gospel; (I am amazed, that so quickly ye be moved away from him who called you into the grace of the Messiah, to another gospel;) 
which is not another, but that there be some that trouble you, and will mis-turn the evangel of Christ. (which is not truly another gospel, but that there be some who trouble you, and will pervert the Gospel, or the Good News, of the Messiah.) 
But though we, or an angel of heaven, preached to you, besides that that we have preached to you, be he accursed. But though we, or an angel of heaven, evangelized to you, besides that that we have evangelized to you, cursed be he. 
As I have said before, and now again I say, if any man preach to you besides that that ye have received, be he accursed or cursed be he. 
For now whether counsel I men, or God? or whether I seek to please men? If I pleased yet men, I were not Christ’s servant, (or If I still sought to please men, I would not be the Messiah’s servant). 
For, brethren, I make known to you the evangel or the gospel, that was preached of me (or by me), for it is not by man; 
nor I took it of man (or nor I received it from any man), nor learned (it from any man), but by the revelation of Jesus Christ. 
For ye have heard my conversation sometime in the Jewry, that I pursued (sur)passingly, or over-manner, or (over-) measure, the church of God, and fought against it. (For ye have heard about my life before among the Jewry, how I persecuted God’s church beyond measure, and fought so very hard against it.) 
And I profited in the Jewry above many of mine even-elders in my kindred, and was more abundantly a follower or a lover of my fathers’ traditions. 
But when it pleased him, that parted me (or who separated me) from my mother’s womb, and called (me) by his grace, 
to show his Son in me, that I should preach him among the heathen, anon I drew me not to flesh and blood; (to show his Son to me, so that I would preach him among the Gentiles, at once I drew me not to flesh and blood;) 
nor I came to Jerusalem to the apostles, that were before me, but I went into Arabia, and again I turned again into Damascus. (nor did I come to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went to Arabia, and then I returned to Damascus.) 
And since three years after I came to Jerusalem or Afterward after three years I came to Jerusalem, to see Peter, and I dwelled with him (for) fifteen days; 
but I saw none other of the apostles, but James, our Lord’s brother. 
And these things which I write to you, lo! before God I lie not. 
Afterward I came into the coasts of Syria and Cilicia. 
But I was unknown by face to the churches of Judea, that were in Christ (or who were in the Messiah); 
and they had only an hearing, that he that pursued us sometime (ago), preacheth now the faith, against which he fought sometime (ago); (and they had only heard it said, that he who had persecuted us before, now preacheth the faith, which before he fought so very hard against;) 
and in me they glorified God. (and they praised God for me.) 
