PSALMS.
Chapter 148.
Alleluia. Ye of heavens, praise the Lord; praise ye him in high things. (Alleluia. Ye in heaven or Ye in the heavens, praise the Lord; praise ye him in high places.) 
All his angels, praise ye him; all his virtues, praise ye him, (or all his hosts, praise ye him). 
Sun and moon, praise ye him; all stars and light, praise ye him, (or all the stars of light, or all the shining stars, praise ye him). 
Heavens of heavens, praise ye him, (or Heaven of heavens, or The highest heaven, praise ye him); and the waters that be above (the) heavens, 
praise they the name of the Lord. For he said, and things were made; he commanded, and things were made of nought. (praise they the name of the Lord. For he spoke, and everything was made; he commanded, and everything was made out of nothing.) 
He ordained those things into the world, and into the world of world; he setted a commandment, and it shall not pass. (He ordained those things forever and ever; he gave a command, and it shall not pass away.) 
Ye of the earth, praise the Lord; dragons, and all depths of waters. (Praise the Lord, from the earth; ye dragons, and all the depths of the waters.) 
Fire, hail, snow, ice, spirits of tempests; that do his word. (Fire, hail, snow, ice, and the winds of the tempests; that all follow his command.) 
Mountains, and all little hills; trees bearing fruit, and all cedars. 
Wild beasts, and all tame beasts; serpents, and feathered birds. 
The kings of earth, and all peoples; the princes, and all judges of earth. (The kings of the earth, and all the peoples; the princes, and the judges, that is, the leaders, over all the earth.) 
Young men, and virgins, eld men with the younger, (Young men, and virgins, old men, and the young,) 
praise the name of the Lord; for the name of him alone is enhanced. His acknowledging be on heaven and earth; (praise the name of the Lord; for only his name should be exalted. For his glory is above the earth, and above heaven;) 
and he hath enhanced the horn of his people. An hymn be to all his saints; to the children of Israel, to a people nighing to him. (and he hath exalted the horn of his people. So let there be a hymn to all his saints; to the children of Israel, to the people who be the closest to him, or So let there be praises from all his saints; from the children of Israel, from the people who be the closest to him.) 
