1ST CHRONICLES.
Chapter 26.
Forsooth these were the partings of the porters; of the sons of Korah, Meshelemiah was the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. (Now these were the divisions of the gatekeepers; of the Korahites, there was Meshelemiah, the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.) 
The sons of Meshelemiah were Zechariah the first begotten, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 
Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh. 
And the sons of Obededom were these; Shemaiah the first begotten, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, Nethaneel the fifth, 
Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth, for the Lord blessed him. 
And to Shemaiah, his son, were born sons, sovereigns of their families (or leaders of their families); for they were full strong men. 
Therefore the sons of Shemaiah were Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, and Elzabad; and his brethren, full strong men, also Elihu, and Semachiah. (And so the sons of Shemaiah were Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, and Elzabad, and their other brothers, Elihu, and Semachiah, who were all very strong men.) 
All these were of the sons of Obededom; they and their sons and their brethren, full strong men for to serve, two and sixty of Obededom. (All these were of the sons of Obededom; they and their sons and their brothers, all very strong men fit for service in the Temple, were sixty-two of Obededom.) 
And of Meshelemiah were eighteen sons and brethren, full strong men (or all very strong men). 
And of Hosah, that is, of the sons of Merari, Simri was (the) prince; and for he had no first begotten son, therefore his father ordained him into a prince; (And of Hosah, that is, of the sons of Merari, Simri was the leader; and though he was not the first-born son, his father had ordained him to be the leader;) 
and Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth; all these thirteen were the sons and brethren of Hosah. 
These were parted into porters, that evermore the princes of the keepings, as also their brethren, should minister in the house of the Lord. (These were the divisions of the gatekeepers, and forevermore the leaders of the divisions, and their kinsmen, would serve in the House of the Lord.) 
Therefore lots were sent, or cast, evenly, both to the little and to the great, by their families, into each of the gates. (And so they all cast lots, both the lesser and the greater alike, by their families, for each of the gates.) 
Therefore the lot of the east coast befelled to Shelemiah; and the north coast befelled by lot to Zechariah, his son, a full prudent man and well learned; (And so the east gate fell by lot to Shelemiah; and the north gate to his son Zechariah, a well-learned and very prudent man;) 
and to Obededom and to his sons (the) lot fell at the south coast, in which part of the house was the council of the elder men; (and the south gate fell by lot to Obededom, and the gatehouse to his sons;) 
Shuppim and Hosah were at the west coast, besides the (Shallecheth) gate that leadeth to the way of going up, keeping against keeping or ward against ward. (Shuppim and Hosah were at the west gate, as well as the Shallecheth Gate that leadeth to the way of ascending; they guarded one, then the other.) 
And at the east part were six deacons, and at the north were four by day; and at the south also were four at midday; and, where the council was, were twain and twain. (And on the east side there were six Levites every day, and on the north there were four every day; and on the south there were also four every day; and two were at each gatehouse.) 
And in the cells, either little houses, of the porters at the west side, were four in the way, and twain by the cells. (And by the cells, or the little houses, of the gatekeepers on the west side, there were four by the road, and two by the cells.) 
These were the partings of the porters, of the sons of Kore and of Merari. (These were the divisions of the gatekeepers, of the sons of Kore, and the sons of Merari.) 
And (of the Levites), Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of the Lord, and over the vessels of the holy things. (And fellow Levites were in charge of the treasuries of the House of the Lord, and the vessels of the holy things.) 
The sons of Laadan, the son of Gershon; of Laadan were the princes of the families of Laadan, and of Gershon, and of Jehiel. (Of the sons of Laadan, the son of Gershon; of Laadan, the leader of the families of Laadan the Gershonite was Jehiel.) 
The sons of Jehiel were Zetham, and Joel, his brother, (who were) over the treasures of the house of the Lord, (The other sons of Laadan were Zetham, and his brother Joel, who were in charge of the treasuries of the House of the Lord.) 
(of) Amramites, and Izharites, and Hebronites, and Uzzielites. (Of the Amramites, and Izharites, and Hebronites, and Uzzielites,) 
And Shebuel, the son of Gershom, son of Moses, was sovereign of the treasures; (Shebuel, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was in charge of the treasures or was in charge of the treasuries;) 
and his brother, Eliezer (or and his brother was Eliezer); whose son was Rehabiah; and his son was Jeshaiah; and his son was Joram; and his son was Zichri; but and his son was Shelomith. 
That Shelomith, and his brethren, were over the treasures of the holy things, which David the king hallowed, and the princes of families, and the tribunes, and the centurions, and the dukes of the host, (This Shelomith, and his kinsmen, were over all the treasures of the holy things, which King David, and the leaders of the families, and the tribunes, and the centurions, and the leaders of the army, had dedicated, or had given,) 
of the battles, and of the spoils of battles, which they hallowed to the reparation and purtenance of the temple of the Lord. (from the battles, and the spoils of battles, which they had dedicated for use in the Temple of the Lord or which they had dedicated for the upkeep of the Temple of the Lord.) 
And Samuel, the prophet, hallowed all these things, and Saul, the son of Kish, and Abner, the son of Ner, and Joab, the son of Zeruiah; and all these hallowed those things by the hand of Shelomith, and of his brethren. (And all those things which the prophet Samuel, and Saul, the son of Kish, and Abner, the son of Ner, and Joab, the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated; indeed, all the dedicated things were under the hand of Shelomith, and his kinsmen.) 
And Chenaniah was sovereign, and his sons, to Izharites, to the works withoutforth on Israel, to teach and to deem them. (And of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were in charge of the works withoutforth in Israel, that is, in keeping the records, and resolving disputes.) 
And of (the) Hebronites, Hashabiah, and his brethren, full strong men, a thousand and seven hundred, were sovereigns upon Israel beyond (the) Jordan against the west, in all the works of the Lord, and into the service of the king. (And of the Hebronites, Hashabiah, and his kinsmen, very strong men, a thousand and seven hundred, were in charge of Israel west of the Jordan River, in all the works of the Lord, and in the service of the king.) 
And Jerijah was prince of Hebronites, by their families and kindreds. In the fortieth year of the realm of David there were numbered, and were found full strong men in Jazer of Gilead; (And Jerijah was the leader of the Hebronites, by their families and kindreds. In the fortieth year of David’s reign they were sought out, and many strong men of them were found at Jazer of Gilead;) 
and his brethren, of stronger age, two thousand and seven hundred, princes of families. And king David made them sovereigns of Reubenites, and Gadites, and of the half lineage of Manasseh, into all the service of God, and of the king. (yea, of his kinsmen, men of ability, two thousand and seven hundred, all leaders of their families. And King David made them rulers over the Reubenites, and Gadites, and the eastern half of the tribe of Manasseh, concerning all service to God, and to the king.) 
