DEEDS OF APOSTLES.
Chapter 14.
And it befelled at Iconium, that they entered together into the synagogue of (the) Jews, and spake, so that a full great multitude of Jews and Greeks believed. 
But the Jews that were unbelieveful, raised persecution, and stirred to wrath the souls of (the) heathen men against the brethren; but the Lord gave soon peace (or but the Lord soon gave peace). 
Therefore they dwelled much time, and did trustily in the Lord, bearing witnessing to the word of his grace (or testifying to the message of his grace), giving signs (or miracles) and wonders to be made by the hands of them. 
But the multitude of the city was parted (or But the multitude in that city was divided), and some were with the Jews, and some with the apostles. 
But when there was made an assault of the heathen men and the Jews, with their princes (or with their leaders), to torment (them), and to stone them, 
they understood, and fled together to the cities of Lycaonia, and Lystra, and Derbe, and into all the country(side) about. 
And they preached there the gospel, and all the multitude was moved together in the teaching of them. (And so) Paul and Barnabas dwelt at Lystra. (And they preached the Gospel or the Good News there, and everyone was greatly moved by their teaching. And so Paul and Barnabas remained at Lystra.) 
And a man at Lystra was sick in the feet, and had sat crooked from his mother’s womb, which never had gone. (And a man at Lystra was sick in the feet, and had been lame from his mother’s womb, and had never walked.) 
This (man) heard Paul speaking; and Paul beheld him and saw that he had faith, that he should be made safe, (He listened as Paul spoke; and Paul looked at him, and saw that he had firm faith, so that he could be saved,) 
and said with a great voice, Rise thou upright on thy feet. And he leaped (up), and walked. 
And the people, when they had seen that that Paul did, reared their voice in Lycaonian tongue, and said, Gods made like to men be come down to us. 
And they called Barnabas, Jupiter, and Paul, Mercury, for he was (the) leader of the word. 
And the priest of Jupiter that was before the city (or And the priest of Jupiter, whose temple was just outside the city), brought bulls and crowns (or garlands) before the gates, with (the) peoples, and would have made (a) sacrifice (there). 
And when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard this, they rent their coats (or they tore their coats); and they skipped out among the people, and cried, 
and said, Men, what do ye this thing? and we be deadly men like you, and show (these tidings) to you, that ye be converted from these vain things to the living God, that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all things that be in them; (and said, Men, why do ye this? for we be mortal men just like you, and we tell these tidings to you, so that ye be converted from these futile and useless things to the living God, who made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all the things that be in them;) 
which in generations passed suffered all folks to go into their own ways. (who in generations passed allowed all the peoples to go their own ways.) 
And yet he left not himself without witnessing in well-doing, for he gave rains from heaven, and times of bearing fruit, and full-filled your hearts with meat, and gladness. (And yet he did not leave himself without testimony or evidence of his good deeds, for he gave rain from the heavens, and times of bearing fruit, and filled you full with food, and your hearts with gladness.) 
And they saying these things, scarcely assuaged the people, (so) that they offered not to them. 
But some Jews came over from Antioch and Iconium, and counselled or stirred (up) the people, and they stoned Paul, and drew him out of the city, and guessed that he was dead. 
But when the disciples were come about him, he (a)rose, and went into the city; and in the day (pur)suing, or and in the (pur)suing day, (or and on the following day), he went forth with Barnabas into Derbe. 
And when they had preached or had evangelized to that city, and taught many, they turned again to Lystra (or they returned to Lystra), and Iconium, and to Antioch; 
confirming the souls of the disciples, and admonishing, that they should dwell in the faith, (or that they should remain in the faith, or that they should live in the faith), and said, That by many tribulations it behooveth us to enter into the kingdom of heavens. 
And when they had ordained priests to them by all cities, and had prayed with fastings, they betook them to the Lord (or they delivered them unto the Lord), in whom they believed. 
And they passed (through) Pisidia, and came to Pamphylia; 
and they spake the word of the Lord in Perga, and came down into Italy. 
And from thence they went by boat to Antioch, from whence they were taken to the grace of God (or from where they had been committed, or delivered, unto God’s grace), into the work that they (had now)ful filled. 
And when they were come, and had gathered the church, they told how great things (that) God did with them or they told how many things (that) God did with them, and that he had opened to heathen men the door of faith (or and that he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles). 
And they dwelled not a little time with the disciples. 
