JUDITH.
Chapter 15.
And when all the host had heard (that) Holofernes (was) beheaded, mind and counsel fled from them, and they shaken by trembling and dread alone, or they stirred with only trembling and dread, took the help or the succour of flight, 
so that no man spake with his neighbor; but each man bowing down his head, and all their things were forsaken or left behind (by) them, they were busy to escape the Jews or (the) Hebrews, which they had heard to come armed upon them; and they fled by the ways of fields, and by the paths of little hills. 
Therefore the sons of Israel saw (the)Assyrians fleeing, or flying away, and they pursued or followed after them, and came down, and they sounded with (their) trumps, and yelled after them. 
And for (the) Assyrians not gather-ed together went headlong into flight, forsooth the sons of Israel pursuing (them) with a company made feeble all the men of them, which they might find. 
And Uzziah sent messengers by (or to) all the cities and countries or regions of Israel. 
Therefore each country and each city, sent forth chosen young men armed after them; and they, the Jews, pursued those Assyrians with the sharpness of sword, till they came to the last part of their coasts. 
And the residue men, or the remnant, of the sons of Israel, that were left in the city of Bethulia, entered into the tents of (the) Assyrians, and took away with them the prey, which (the) Assyrians fleeing (away) had left, and (the)men of Israel were greatly charged with chattel. 
And they that were overcomers, in (or after) their pursuit(re)turned again to the city(of) Bethulia, and they took away with them all (the) things whatever were of those Assyrians, so that there was no number in sheep, and beasts, and in all (the) moveable things of them, so that from the least unto the most, all (the) men of Israel were made rich of (or by) the preys. 
Forsooth Joakim, the highest or the high bishop, (or the High Priest), came from Jerusalem into Bethulia with all the priests, to see Judith. 
And when she had gone out to him, all they blessed her with one voice, and said, Thou art the glory of Jerusalem, and thou art the gladness of Israel, (and) thou art the honour of our people, which hast done manly, 
and certainly thine heart was comforted in God(or was strengthened by God), for thou lovedest chastity, and after thine husband thou knew not another man; therefore and the hand of the Lord comforted (or strengthened) thee, and therefore thou shalt be blessed into without end. 
And all the people said, Be it done! be it done! or Amen! amen! 
Forsooth by thirty days scarcely were the spoils of (the) men of Assyria gathered up of (or by) the men of Israel. 
Certainly they gave to Judith all (the) things, that were proved to be proper (or the property) of Holofernes, in gold, in silver, and in clothes, and in gems, and in all appurtenance of household; and all (these) things were given to her of (or by) the people. 
And all (the) peoples, with women, and virgins, and with young men, made joy, in (or with) organs and harps. 
