GENESIS.
Chapter 11.
Forsooth (all) the land was of one language, and of the same speech. Forsooth the (whole) earth was of one lip, and of the same words. 
And when they went forth from the east, they found a field in the land of Shinar, and they dwelled therein. 
And one said to his neighbour (or And they said to one another), Come ye, and make we tilestones, and bake we those with fire; and they had tile for stones, and pitch, either strong glue, for mortar; 
and they said, Come ye, and make we to us a city and a tower, whose highness stretch till to (the) heaven(s); and make we solemn our name, before that we be parted into all lands. (and they said, Come ye, and let us make a city, and a tower whose height shall stretch up to the sky; and make we our name well-known, or else we shall soon be parted from each other into all the earth.) 
Forsooth the Lord came down to see the city, and the tower, which the sons of Adam builded (or which the sons of men were building). 
And he said, Lo! the people is one, and one language is to all, and they have begun to make this; neither they shall cease of their thoughts, till they ful fill those in work, (or and they shall not cease from their thoughts, until they have fulfilled them in deed); 
therefore come ye, go we down, and shame we there the tongue of them, that each man hear not the voice of his neighbour. (and so come ye, let us go down there, and confuse their tongues, so that each person shall not be able to understand their neighbour’s voice.) 
And so the Lord separated them from that place into all (the) lands; and they ceased to build the city. 
And therefore the name thereof was called Babel, for the language of all the earth was confounded there; and from thence the Lord scattered them on the face of all countries (or and from there the Lord scattered them over all the face of the earth). 
These be the generations of Shem (or These be the descendants of Shem). Shem was an hundred years (old) when he begat Arphaxad, two years after the great flood. 
And Shem lived after that he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
Forsooth Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and (then) begat Salah; 
and Arphaxad lived after that he begat Salah three hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters. (and Arphaxad lived after that he begat Salah four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.) 
And Salah lived thirty years, and (then) begat Eber; 
and Salah lived after that he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters. 
Soothly Eber lived four and thirty years, and (then) begat Peleg; 
and Eber lived after that he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
Also Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu; (And Peleg lived thirty years, and then begat Reu;) 
and Peleg lived after that he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Reu lived two and thirty years, and (then) begat Serug; 
and Reu lived after that he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters. 
Soothly Serug lived thirty years, and (then) begat Nahor; 
and Serug lived after that he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
Forsooth Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and (then) begat Terah; 
and Nahor lived after that he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Terah lived seventy years, and (then) begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran. 
Soothly these be the generations of Terah (or These be the descendants of Terah). Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran. Forsooth Haran begat Lot; 
and Haran died before Terah, his father, in the land of his nativity, in Ur of Chaldees (or in Ur of the Chaldeans, later called Babylon). 
Forsooth Abram and Nahor wedded wives; the name of the wife of Abram was Sarai, and the name of the wife of Nahor was Milcah, the daughter of Haran, (the) father of Milcah, and (also the) father of Iscah. (And Abram and Nahor wedded wives; the name of Abram’s wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor’s wife was Milcah, the daughter of his brother Haran, who was also the father of Iscah.) 
Soothly Sarai was barren, and had no children. 
And so Terah took Abram, his son, and Lot, the son of Haran, his son, and Sarai, his daughter-in-law, the wife of Abram, his son, and led them out of Ur of Chaldees, that they should go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelled there. (And Terah took his son Abram, and Lot, the son of his son Haran, and Sarai, his daughter-in-law, the wife of his son Abram, and led them out from Ur of the Chaldeans, to go to the land of Canaan; and they came to Haran, and lived there.) 
And the days of Terah were made two hundred years and five, and he was dead in Haran. (And all the days of Terah were two hundred and five years, and then he died in Haran.) 
