JAMES.
Chapter 3.
My brethren, do not ye be made (into) many masters, witting that ye take the more doom. (My brothers, do not let many of you become teachers, knowing that if ye do, ye shall receive a sterner judgement, or a greater condemnation.) 
For all we offend in many things. If any man offendeth not in word, this is a perfect man, (or If some man offendeth not by speaking unkindly, or harshly, then he is a perfect man); for also he may lead about all the body with a bridle. 
For if we put bridles into horses’ mouths, for to consent to us, and (so) we lead about all the body of them. 
And lo! ships, when they be great, and be driven of strong winds, yet they be borne about of a little rudder, where the moving of the governor will. (And behold! ships, although they be great, and be driven by strong winds, yet they can be turned about by a little rudder, wherever the captain desireth.) 
So also the tongue is but a little member, and raiseth great things. Lo! how little fire burneth or kindleth a full great wood, (or Behold! how a little fire burneth a very large forest). 
And our tongue is (a) fire, the university of wickedness. The tongue is ordained in our members, which defouleth all the body; and it is enflamed, or set afire, of hell (or and it is set on fire from hell), and enflameth the wheel of our birth. 
And all the kind(s) of beasts, and of fowls, and of serpents, and of others is chastised, and those be made tame of man’s kind (or and they all can be tamed by mankind); Soothly all kind(s) of beasts, and fowls, and serpents, and of others, be overcome, or under-yoked, and be made tame, of mankind, (or and can be made tame by mankind); 
but no man may chastise the tongue (or but no one can discipline the tongue), for it is an unpeaceable evil, and full of deadly venom. 
In it we bless God, the Father, and in it we curse men, that be made to the likeness of God. (With it we bless God the Father, and with it we curse men, who be made in the likeness of God.) 
(Out) Of the same mouth passeth forth or cometh forth blessing and cursing. My brethren (or My brothers), it behooveth not that these things be done so. 
Whether a well of the same hole bringeth forth sweet (water), and salt water? 
My brethren (or My brothers), whether a fig tree may make grapes, either a vine figs? So neither salt water may make sweet water. 
Who is wise, and taught among you? show he of good living his working or show he of good living his work, in mildness of his wisdom. (Who is wise, and learned among you? show he by good living his work, along with the humility and the meekness of his wisdom.) 
(So) That if ye have bitter envy, and strivings or strives be in your hearts, do not ye have glory (or do not boast), and be liars against the truth. 
For this wisdom is not from above coming down, but earthly, and beastly, and fiendly (or and devilish). 
For where (there) is envy and strife, there is unsteadfastness and all shrewd work (or and every depraved work). 
But wisdom that is from above, first it is chaste, afterward peaceable, mild (or meek and humble), able to be counselled or persuadable, consenting to good things, full of mercy and of good fruits, deeming without feigning (or judging with sincerity). 
And the fruit of rightwiseness is sown in peace, to men that make peace. (And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace, by men who make peace.) 
