MARK.
Chapter 4.
And again Jesus began to teach at the sea; and much people was gathered to him, so that he went into a boat, and sat in the sea, and all the people was about the sea on the land. 
And he taught them in parables many things. And he said to them in his teaching, 
Hear ye. Lo! a man sowing goeth out to sow, or Lo! a sower went out to sow. 
And while he soweth, some seed felled about the way or beside the way, and (the) birds of (the) heaven(s), or the birds of the air, came, and ate it. 
Other felled down on stony places, where it had not much earth; and anon it sprang up (or and at once it sprouted), for it had not (any) deepness of earth or for it had no deepness of earth. 
And when the sun rose up, it withered for heat, and it dried up, for it had no root(s). 
And other felled down into thorns, and the thorns sprang up, and strangled it, and it gave no fruit. 
And other felled down into good land, and gave fruit, springing up, and waxing (or growing); and one brought (forth) thirtyfold, and one sixtyfold, and one an hundredfold. 
And he said, He that hath ears of hearing, hear he. And he said, He that hath ears to hear, hear. 
And when he was by himself, the twelve that were with him asked him to expound the parable. 
And he said to them, To you it is given to know the private or the mystery of the kingdom of God (or To you it is given to know the secret of the Kingdom of God). But to them that be withoutforth, all things be made in parables, 
(so) that they seeing see, and see not, and they hearing hear, and understand not; lest sometime they be converted, and (their) sins be forgiven to them. 
And he said to them, Know not ye this parable? and how ye shall know all parables? (And he said to them, Do ye not understand this parable? then how shall ye understand any parable?) 
He that soweth, soweth a word. 
But these it be that be about the way, where the word is sown; and when they have heard, anon cometh Satan (or at once Satan cometh), and taketh away the word that is sown in their hearts. 
And in like manner be these that be sown on stony places, which when they have heard the word, anon they take it with joy (or at once they receive it with joy); 
and they have not root in themselves, but they be lasting (but) a little time or but they be temporal; afterward when tribulation riseth, and persecution for the word, anon (or at once) they be caused to stumble. 
And there be others that be sown in thorns; these it be, that hear the word, 
and dis-ease of the world, and deceit of riches, and other charge of covetousness entereth (or and the burden of envy entereth), and strangleth the word, and it is made without fruit. 
And these it be that be sown on good land, which hear the word, and take (it), (or and receive it), and make fruit, one thirtyfold, and one sixtyfold, and one an hundredfold. 
And he said to them, Whether a lantern cometh, that it be put under a bushel, or under a bed? nay, but that it be put on a candlestick? 
There is nothing hid, that shall not be made open or that shall not be showed; neither anything is privy, that shall not come into (the) open. (There is nothing hidden, that shall not be made open or revealed; nor is anything private, or kept secret, that shall not be brought out into the open.) 
If any man have ears of hearing, hear he. 
And he said to them, See ye what ye hear. In what measure ye mete, it shall be meted to you again, and it shall be cast to you (or By which measure ye measure, it shall be measured unto you again, yea, it shall be thrown unto you). 
For it shall be given to him that hath, and it shall be taken away from him that hath not, also that that he hath. Forsooth it shall be given to him that hath, and if a man hath not, yea this that he hath shall be taken away from him. 
And he said, So the kingdom of God is, as if a man cast seed into the earth, 
and he sleep, and it rise up night and day, and bring forth seed, and wax fast (or grow fast), while he knoweth not. 
For the earth by his own working, or by his own will, (or by its own working, or by its own will), maketh fruit, first the grass, afterward the ear, and afterward full fruit in the ear. 
And when of itself it hath brought forth fruit, anon (or at once) he sendeth a sickle, for reaping time is come. 
And he said, To what thing shall we liken the kingdom of God? or to what parable shall we comparison it? 
As a corn of sinapi, (or Like a kernel, or a grain, of mustard seed), which when it is sown in the earth, is less than all (the) seeds that be in the earth; 
and when it is sprung up, it waxeth into a tree (or it groweth into a tree), and is made greater than all (the) herbs; and it maketh great branches, so that the birds of (the) heaven(s) may dwell under the shadow thereof (or so that the birds of the air can live under its shadow). 
And in many such parables he spake to them the word, as they might hear (or as much as they could understand); 
and he spake not to them without parable(s). But he expounded to his disciples all things by themselves. 
And he said to them in that day, when evening was come, Pass we again-ward. (And he said to them on that day, when the evening had come, Let us go over to the other side of Lake Galilee.) 
And they left the people (or And they let the people go), and took him, so that he was in a boat; and other boats were with him. 
And a great storm or a tempest of wind was made, and cast waves into the boat, so that the boat was full-filled, (or so that the boat was filled full of water). 
And he was in the hinder part of the boat, and slept on a pillow. And they raised him, and said to him, Master, (or Teacher), pertaineth it not to thee, that we perish? 
And he rose up, and menaced the wind (or and threatened the wind), and said to the sea, Be still, wax dumb. And the wind ceased, and great peaceableness was made. 
And he said to them, What dread ye? (or Why fear ye?) Yet ye have no faith?/Ye have not faith yet? or Not yet have ye faith? 
And they dreaded with great dread (or And they feared with a great fear), and said to each other, Who, guessest thou, is this? for the wind and the sea obey to him. 
