JEREMIAH.
Chapter 12.
Forsooth, Lord, thou art just; if I dispute with thee, nevertheless I shall speak (about) just things to thee. Why hath the way of wicked men prosperity? It is well to all men that break the law, and do wickedly? (But, Lord, thou art just; and if I dispute with thee, nevertheless I shall speak about just things with thee. Why hath the ways of the wicked prospered? Why is it well with all those who break the law, and who do wickedly?) 
Thou hast planted them, and they sent (out) root; they increase, and make fruit; thou art nigh to the mouth of them, and far from the reins of them. 
And thou, Lord, hast known me, thou hast seen me, and hast proved mine heart with thee. Gather thou them together as a flock to slain sacrifice, and hallow thou them in the day of slaying. 
How long shall the earth mourn, and each herb of the field shall be dried, for the malice of them that dwell therein? A beast is wasted, and a bird, for they said, The Lord shall not see our last things. (How long shall the land mourn, and the grass on each field shall be dried up, because of the malice of those who live there? Yea, a beast is destroyed, and also a bird, because those people said, The Lord shall not see what we do.) 
If thou travailest running with footmen, how shalt thou be able to strive with horses? but when thou art secure in the land of peace, what shalt thou do in the pride of Jordan? (or what shalt thou do in the thickets of the Jordan River?) 
For why both thy brethren and the house of thy father, yea, they fought against thee, and cried with full voice after thee; believe thou not to them, when they speak goods to thee, (or do not thou believe them, when they say their fine words to thee). 
I have left mine house, I have forsaken mine heritage; I gave my loved soul into the hands of enemies thereof. (I have left my house, I have abandoned my inheritance; I gave the beloved of my soul into the hands of their enemies.) 
Mine heritage is made as a lion in the wood to me; it gave voice against me, therefore I hated it. (My inheritance is made like a lion in the woods to me; they gave voice against me, and so I hated them.) 
Whether mine heritage is (like) a bird of diverse colours to me? whether it is(like) a bird dyed throughout? All beasts of the field, come ye, be ye gathered together; haste ye for to devour. (Is my inheritance like but a bird of diverse colours to me? (is it) like but a bird dyed throughout? All the beasts of the field, come ye, be ye gathered together; hasten ye to devour! or hasten ye to the feast!) 
Many shepherds destroyed my vinery, defouled my part, gave my desirable portion into desert of wilderness; (Many shepherds destroyed my vineyard, and defiled my portion, yea, they turned my desirable portion into a desert of wilderness;) 
they setted it into scattering, and it mourned on me (or and it mourned for me); all the land is desolate by desolation, for none is that again-thinketh (on it) in (his) heart. 
All (the) destroyers of the land came on all the ways of (the) desert, for the sword of the Lord shall devour from the last part of the land unto the last part thereof; no peace is to all flesh (or no flesh shall have any peace). 
They sowed wheat, and reaped thorns; they took heritage, and it shall not profit to them. Ye shall be shamed of your fruits, for the wrath of the strong vengeance of the Lord. (They sowed wheat, and reaped thorns; they took hold of their inheritance, but it shall not profit them. Ye shall be shamed by your fruits or Ye shall be ashamed of your fruits, because of the anger of the strong vengeance of the Lord.) 
The Lord saith these things against all my worst neighbours, that touch the heritage which I parted to my people Israel (or who touch the inheritance which I gave to my people Israel), Lo! I shall draw them out of their land, and I shall draw the house of Judah out of the midst of them. 
And when I shall draw out those Jews, I shall turn again, and have mercy on them; and I shall lead them again, a man to his heritage, and a man into his land. (But after I shall draw out those Jews, I shall return, and have mercy on them; and I shall lead them again, each person to his own inheritance, and to his own land.) 
And it shall be, if they that be taught learn the ways of my people, that they swear in my name, The Lord liveth, as they taught my people to swear in Baal, they shall be builded in the midst of my people. (And it shall be, if they who be taught learn the ways of my people, that they swear in my name, As the Lord liveth, like they taught my people to swear by Baal, then they shall be built up, or shall flourish and prosper, in the midst of my people.) 
That if they hear not, I shall draw out that folk by drawing out and perdition, saith the Lord. (But if they will not listen, or obey, then I shall draw out that nation, or that people, by drawing out and perdition, saith the Lord.) 
