1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 2.
And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not in the highness of word(s), either of wisdom, telling, or showing, to you the witnessing of Christ (or telling the testimony of the Messiah). 
For I deemed not me to know anything among you, but Christ Jesus, and him crucified. (For I judged, or I determined, that when I was among you, I did not know anything, except the Messiah Jesus, and his crucifixion.) 
And I in sickness, and dread, and in much trembling, was among you or was with you; (And I in frailty or weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling, was with you;) 
and my word(s) and my preaching was not in (or with) subtly stirring or persuadable words of man’s wisdom, but in (the) showing of (the) Spirit and of virtue (or and of the power); 
(so) that your faith be not in the wisdom of men, but in the virtue of God (or but in the power of God). 
For we speak wisdom among perfect men, but not (the) wisdom of this world, neither of (the) princes of this world, that be destroyed, (or nor of the rulers of this world, who be destroyed); 
but we speak the wisdom of God in mystery, which wisdom is hid; which wisdom God before-ordained before (the) worlds into our glory, (but we speak God’s secret wisdom, which wisdom is hidden; whichwisdom God before-ordained before the making or the creation of the world for our glory,) 
which none of the princes of this world knew; for if they had known (it), they should never have crucified the Lord of glory. (which none of the rulers of this world knew; for if they had known it, they would never have crucified the Lord of glory.) 
But as it is written, That eye saw not, nor ear heard, neither it ascended into the heart of man, what things God arrayed or made ready before to them that love him (or what things God hath prepared for those who love him); 
but God showed to us by his Spirit. For why the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. 
And who of men knoweth, what things be of man, but the spirit of man that is in him? So what things be of God, no man knoweth, but the Spirit of God. 
And we have not received the spirit of this world, but the Spirit that is of God, that we know what things be given to us of God. (And we have not received the spirit of this world, but the Spirit that is from God, so that we know what things be given to us from God.) 
Which things we speak also, not in wise or in taught words of man’s wisdom, but in the doctrine of the Spirit, and make a likeness or a comparison of spiritual things to ghostly men (or and make a comparison of spiritual things for spiritual men). 
For a beastly man perceiveth not those things that be of the Spirit of God; for it is folly to him, and he may not understand, for it is examined, or assayed, ghostly. (For a fleshly man perceiveth not those things that be of God’s Spirit; for it is foolishness to him, and he cannot understand, for it is examined spiritually.) 
But a spiritual man deemeth (or judgeth) all things, and he is deemed of (or by) no man. 
As it is written, And who knew the wit of the Lord, or who taught him? And we have the wit of Christ. (As it is written, And who knew the mind, or the thoughts, of the Lord, or who taught him? And we have the mind of the Messiah.) 
