JOHN.
Chapter 21.
Afterward Jesus again showed him(self) to his disciples, at the sea of Tiberias (or at the Sea of Galilee, that is, Lake Galilee). And he showed him(self) thus. 
There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas, that is said Didymus (or who is called the Twin), and Nathanael, that was of the Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and twain other of his disciples (or and two other disciples of Jesus). 
Simon Peter saith to them, I (shall) go to fish. They say to him, And we (shall) come with thee. And they went out, and went into a boat. And in that night they took nothing. 
But when the morrow was come, Jesus stood in the brink, (or But early the next morning, Jesus stood on the shore); nevertheless the disciples knew not, that it was Jesus. 
Therefore Jesus saith to them, Children, whether ye have any supping thing? They answered to him, Nay. 
He said to them, Put ye or Send ye the net into the right half of the rowing (or Throw the net onto the right side of the boat), and ye shall find (something). And they putted or sent the net; and then they might not draw it (in) for (the) multitude of fishes. 
Therefore that disciple, whom Jesus loved, said to Peter, It is the Lord. Simon Peter, when he had heard that it is the Lord, girt him(self) with a coat, for he was naked, and went into the sea. 
But the other disciples came by boat, for they were not far from the land, but as (of) a two hundred cubits or but as it were two hundred cubits, drawing the net of fishes. 
And as they came down into the land (or And as they came ashore), they saw coals lying (there), and fish laid on, and bread. 
Jesus saith to them, Bring ye of the fishes, which ye have taken now. 
Simon Peter went up, and drew the net into the land, full of great fishes, an hundred fifty and three; and when they were so many, the net was not broken. (Simon Peter went, and drew the net onto the land, full of large fish, a hundred and fifty-three of them; and although there were so many, the net was not broken.) 
Jesus saith to them, Come ye, and eat ye. And no man of them that sat at the meat, durst ask him, Who art thou, witting that it is the Lord. (Jesus said to them, Come, and eat. And none of them who sat at the meal, dared ask him, Who art thou, knowing that it was the Lord.) 
And Jesus came, and took bread, and gave (it) to them, and fish also. 
Now this is the third time (that) Jesus was showed to his disciples, when he had risen again from death or from (the) dead. 
And when they had eaten, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon of John (or Simon the son of John), lovest thou me more than these? He saith to him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith to him, Feed thou my lambs (or Feed my lambs). 
Again he saith to him, Simon of John (or Simon the son of John), lovest thou me? He saith to him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith to him, Feed thou my lambs (or Feed my male sheep). 
He saith to him the third time, Simon of John (or Simon the son of John), lovest thou me? Peter was heavy, or sorry, (or was grieved), for he said to him the third time, Lovest thou me, and he saith to him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith to him, Feed my sheep (or Feed my female sheep). 
Truly, truly, I say to thee, when thou were younger, thou girdedest thee, and wanderedest where thou wouldest; but when thou shalt wax older, thou shalt hold forth thine hands, and another shall gird thee, and shall lead thee whither thou wilt not. (Truly, I tell thee the truth, when thou were younger, thou girdedest thyself, and walkedest where thou wanted to go; but when thou shalt grow older, thou shalt hold forth thine hands, and another shall gird thee, and shall lead thee where thou desirest not.) 
He said this thing, signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had said these things, he saith to him, (Pur)Sue thou me (or Follow me). 
Peter turned, and saw that disciple (pur)suing, whom Jesus loved, which also rested in the supper on his breast, and said to him, Lord, who is it, that shall betray thee? (Peter turned, and saw that disciple following, whom Jesus loved, who had sat close beside him at the supper, and had asked him, Lord, who is it, that shall betray thee?) 
Therefore when Peter had seen this disciple, he saith to Jesus, Lord, but what (about) this (man)? 
Jesus saith to him, So I will, that he dwell till I come, what (is it) to thee? (pur)sue thou me. (Jesus said to him, If I desire, that he live until I come, what is it to thee? follow me.) 
Therefore this word went out among the brethren, that that disciple dieth not. And Jesus said not to him, that he dieth not, but, So I will, that he dwell till I come, what (is it) to thee? (But Jesus did not say to him, that he would not die, but rather, If I desire, that he live until I come, what is it to thee?) 
This is that disciple, that beareth witnessing of these things, and wrote them; and we know, that his witnessing is true. (This is that disciple, who testifieth about these things, and wrote them; and we know, that his testimony is true.) 
And there be also many other things that Jesus did, which if they be written each by itself (or which if all of them be written down), I deem that the world itself shall not be able to take the books, that be to be written. Amen. 
