JOHN.
Chapter 9.
And Jesus passing (by), saw a man blind from the birth. 
And his disciples asked him, Master, who sinned, this man, or his elders, or Rabbi, who sinned, this man, or his father and mother, that he should be born blind? (And his disciples asked him, Teacher, who sinned, this man, or his father and mother, so that he would be born blind?) 
Jesus answered, Neither this man sinned, neither his elders, or Neither this man sinned, neither his father and mother; but that the works of God be showed in him. 
It behooveth me to work the works of him that sent me, as long as the day is or the while the day is; the night shall come, when no man may work (or when no one can work). 
As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. 
When he had said these things, he spat into the earth, and made clay of the spittle (or and made clay with the spittle), and anointed the clay on his eyes, 
and said to him, Go, and be thou washed in the water, or (in the) cistern, of Siloam, that is to say, Sent, (or Go, and be washed in the pool of Siloam, which is translated, Sent). Then he went, and washed, and came (back) seeing. 
And so (his) neighbours, and they that had seen him before, for he was a beggar, said, Whether this is not he, that sat, and begged? 
Other men said, That this it is, (or Some men said, Yea, it is him); and other men said, Nay, but he is like him. But he said, I am he. 
Therefore they said to him, How be thine eyes opened? 
He answered, That man, that is said Jesus, made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said to me, Go thou to the water, or (to the) cistern, of Siloam, and wash, (or Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash); and I went, and washed, and (then I) saw. 
And they said to him, Where is he? He said, I know not. 
They led him that was blind to the Pharisees. 
And it was (the) sabbath, when Jesus made clay, and opened his eyes. 
Again the Pharisees asked him, how he had seen. And he said to them, He laid to me or He put to me clay on the eyes (or He put some clay on my eyes); and I washed, and (now) I see. 
Therefore some of the Pharisees said, This man is not of God, that keepeth not the sabbath, (or And so some of the Pharisees said, This man cannot be from God, for he keepeth not the Sabbath). Other men said, How may a sinful man do these signs, or miracles. And strife or division was among them. 
Therefore they said again to the blind man, What sayest thou of him, that opened thine eyes? And he said, That he is a prophet. 
Therefore the Jews believed not of him, that he was blind, and had seen, till they called his father and mother, that had seen. 
And they asked them, and said, Is this your son, which ye say was born blind? how then seeth he now? 
His father and mother answered to them, and said, We know, that this is our son, and that he was born blind; 
but how he seeth now, we know not, or who opened his eyes, we know not; ask ye him, he hath age, speak he of himself, (or you ask him, he is old enough, yea, let him speak for himself). 
His father and mother said these things, for they dreaded the Jews; for then the Jews had conspired, that if any man acknowledged him (as) Christ, he should be done out of the synagogue. (His father and mother said these things, for they feared the Jews; for then the Jews had conspired together, that if anyone acknowledged him as the Messiah, they would be put out of the synagogue.) 
Therefore his father and mother said, That he hath age, ask ye him. (And so his father and mother said, He is old enough, you ask him.) 
Therefore again they called the man, that was blind, and said to him, Give thou glory to God; we know, that this man is a sinner. 
Then he said, If he is a sinner, I know not; one thing I know, that when I was blind, now I see. (Then he said, If he is a sinner, I do not know; but the one thing I do know, is that before I was blind, and now I can see.) 
Therefore they said to him, What did he (do) to thee? how opened he thine eyes? 
He answered to them, I said to you now, and ye heard (me); what will ye again hear (it)? whether ye will be made his disciples? (He answered to them, I told you before, and ye heard me; why will ye hear it again? will ye also be made his disciples?) 
Therefore they cursed him, and said, Be thou (made) his disciple; we be the disciples of Moses. 
We know, that God spake to Moses; but we know not this (man), of whence he is. 
That man answered, and said to them, For in this is a wonderful thing, that ye know not, of whence he is, and he hath opened mine eyes. 
And we know, that God heareth not sinful men, but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, he heareth him. 
From the world it is not heard (of), that any man opened the eyes of a blind-born man (or of someone born blind); 
no but this man were of God, he might not do anything. (unless this man was from God, he could not do anything.) 
They answered, and said to him, Thou art all born in sins, and teachest thou us? or and thou teachest us? And they put him out. 
Jesus heard, that they had put him out; and when he had found him, he said to him, Believest thou in the Son of God? 
He answered, and said, Lord, who is he, (so) that I (can) believe in him? 
And Jesus said to him, And thou hast seen him, and he it is, that speaketh with thee, (or and it is he, who speaketh with thee now). 
And he said, Lord, I believe. And he fell down, and worshipped him. 
Therefore Jesus said to him, I came into this world, in doom (or for judgement), (so) that they that see not, see, and they that see, be made blind. 
And some of the Pharisees heard, that were with him (or who were with him), and they said to him, Whether we be blind? 
Jesus said to them, If ye were blind, ye should not have sin; but now (that) ye say, That we see, your sin dwelleth still. 
