JOHN.
Chapter 4.
Therefore as Jesus knew, that the Pharisees heard, that Jesus maketh and baptizeth more disciples than John, 
though Jesus baptized not, but his disciples, 
he left Judea, and went again into Galilee. 
And it behooved him to pass by Samaria. (And it was necessary that he pass through Samaria.) 
Therefore Jesus came into a city of Samaria, that is called Sychar, beside the place or the field that Jacob gave to Joseph, his son. 
And the well of Jacob was there; and Jesus was weary of the journey, and sat thus upon the well. And the hour was, as it were the sixth. (And Jacob’s well was there; and Jesus was weary from the journey, and sat down by the well. And it was about noon.) 
And a woman came from Samaria, to draw water, (or And a woman of Samaria came to draw water). And Jesus saith to her, Give me (a) drink. 
And his disciples were gone into the city, to buy meat (or to buy some food). 
Therefore that woman of Samaria saith to him, How (is it that) thou, that art a Jew, askest of me (for) a drink, that am a woman of Samaria? for the Jews used not to deal with the Samaritans. 
Jesus answered, and said to her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is, that saith to thee, Give me (a) drink, thou peradventure wouldest have asked of him, and he should have given to thee quick water (or and then he would have given thee living water). 
The woman saith to him, Sire, thou hast not wherein to draw, and the pit is deep; whereof then hast thou quick water? (The woman said to him, Sir, thou hast nothing with which to draw up the water, and the well is deep; from where then would thou get this living water?) 
Whether thou art greater than our father Jacob, that gave to us the pit? and he drank thereof, and his sons, and his beasts. (Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well? and he, and his sons, and his beasts, all drank from it.) 
Jesus answered, and said to her, Each man that drinketh of this water, shall thirst again; 
but he that drinketh of the water that I shall give him, shall not thirst into without end; but the water that I shall give him, shall be made in him a well of water, springing up into everlasting life (or springing up for eternal life). 
The woman saith to him, Sire (or Sir), give me this water, (so) that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw. 
Jesus saith to her, Go, call thine husband, and come hither. 
The woman answered, and said, I have none husband. Jesus saith to her, Thou saidest well, That I have none husband; The woman answered, and said, I have not an husband. Jesus saith to her, Thou saidest well, For I have not an husband; 
for thou hast had five husbands, and he that thou hast now, is not thine husband. This thing thou saidest soothly (or Thou hast spoken truthfully). 
The woman saith to him, Lord, I see, that thou art a prophet. 
Our fathers worshipped in this hill, and ye (Jews) say, that at Jerusalem is a place, where it behooveth (all) to worship. 
Jesus saith to her, Woman, believe thou to me, for the hour shall come, when neither in this hill, neither in Jerusalem, ye shall worship the Father. 
Ye worship that that ye know not; we worship that that we know; for health is of the Jews, (or for salvation is from the Jews, or salvation cometh from the Jews). 
But the time is come, and now it is, when true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth; for also the Father seeketh such, that worship him. 
God is a Spirit, and it behooveth them that worship him, to worship in spirit and truth. 
The woman saith to him, I know that Messias is (to) come, that is said Christ, (or I know that the Messiah is to come, who is called Christ); therefore when he cometh, he shall tell us all things. 
Jesus saith to her, I am he or I am, that speaketh with thee. 
And anon his disciples came, and wondered, that he spake with the woman; nevertheless no man said to him, What seekest thou, or, What speakest thou with her? (And at once his disciples came back, and were surprised, that he spoke with the woman; nevertheless no one said to him, Why speakest thou with her?) 
Therefore the woman left her water pot, and went into the city, and said to the men, 
Come ye, and see a man, that said to me all things that I have done; whether he be Christ? (or could he be the Messiah?) 
And they went out of the city, and came to him. 
In the meanwhile his disciples prayed him, and said, Master or Rabbi, eat. (Meanwhile his disciples beseeched him, and said, Teacher, have something to eat.) 
But he said to them, I have meat to eat, that ye know not (of). (But he said to them, I have food to eat, that ye know nothing about.) 
Therefore the disciples said together, Whether any man hath brought him meat to eat? (And so the disciples said to each other, Hath someone else brought him something to eat?) 
Jesus saith to them, My meat is that I do the will of him that sent me, and that I perform the work of him. (Jesus said to them, My food is that I do the will of him who sent me, until I finish his work.) 
Whether ye say not, that yet four months be, and ripe corn cometh? Lo! I say to you, lift up your eyes, and see ye the fields, for now they be white to reap. (Do ye not say, that there still be four months, and then the harvest shall come? Behold! I tell you, lift up your eyes, and see ye the fields, for they be ready to be harvested now!) 
And he that reapeth taketh hire, and gathereth fruit into everlasting life, (or And he who harvesteth receiveth his wages, and gathereth crops for eternal life); (so) that both he that soweth, and he that reapeth, have joy together. 
In this thing is the word true, For one is that soweth, and another that reapeth. 
I sent you to reap, that that ye have not travailed, (or I sent you to harvest, that which ye have not laboured over); other men have travailed, and ye have entered into their travails. 
And of that city many of the Samaritans believed in him, for the word of the woman, that bare witnessing (or who testified), That he said to me all (the) things that I have done, or For he said to me all (the) things, whatever I did. 
Therefore when (the) Samaritans came to him, they prayed him to dwell there (or they beseeched him to remain there); and he dwelt there two days. 
And many more believed for his word(s), 
and said to the woman, That now not for thy speech we believe; for we have heard, and we know, that this is verily the Saviour of the world, (or for we have heard, and we know, that he is truly the Saviour of the world). 
And after two days he went out from thence, and went into Galilee. 
And he bare witnessing, that a prophet in his own country hath none honour. Soothly Jesus bare witnessing, for a prophet in his own country hath not honour, or worship.(And he testified, that a prophet is not honoured in his hometown.) 
Therefore when he came into Galilee, men of Galilee received him, when they had seen all (the) things that he had done in Jerusalem in the feast day (or for they had seen all the things that he had done in Jerusalem on the Feast Day, or at the Festival); for also they had come to the feast day. 
Therefore he came again into the Cana of Galilee, where he made the water into wine. And there was a little king (or And there was a royal official), whose son was sick at Capernaum. 
When this (man) had heard, that Jesus should come from Judea into Galilee, he went to him, and prayed him (or beseeched him), that he should come down, and heal his son; for he began to die. 
Therefore Jesus said to him, But ye see tokens, and great wonders, ye believe not. (And Jesus said to him, Unless ye see signs or miracles, and great wonders, ye will not believe.) 
The little king saith to him (or The royal official said to him), Lord, come down, before that my son die. 
Jesus saith to him, Go, thy son liveth. The man believed to the word(s), that Jesus said to him, and he went (home). 
And now when he came down (or was close to home), the servants came to meet him, and told to him, and said, That his son lived. 
And he asked of them the hour, in which he was amended. And they said to him, For yesterday in the seventh hour the fever left him. 
Therefore the father knew, that that hour it was, in which Jesus said to him, Thy son liveth; and he believed, and all his house. 
Jesus did again this second token (or Jesus did this second sign or miracle), when he came from Judea into Galilee. 
