WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
Chapter 14.
Again another man thinking to sail in a ship or Again another think-ing to sail, and beginning to make journey through fierce waves, inwardly calleth (upon) a tree (or a piece of wood) more frail than the tree (or the piece of wood) that beareth him. 
For why covetousness to get moneyor winning found (or was the reason to create) that idol; and a craftsman made it by his wisdom. 
But thou, Father, governest by purveyance, for thou gavest (a) way in the sea or for thou hast given in the sea (a) way, and a most steadfast path among (the) waves; 
showing that thou art mighty to make whole of or to heal all things, yea, (even) if a man goeth to the sea without (a) ship; 
but that the works of thy wisdom should not be void, for this thing men betake their lives, yea, to a little tree, and they pass (over) the sea, and be delivered (or saved) by a ship. 
But at the beginning, when proud giants perished, the hope of the world fled to a ship, and sent again seed of birth to the world, which was governed by thine hand. 
For why blessed is the tree (or the wood), by which rightfulness was made. Blessed forsooth is the tree, by the which is done rightwiseness. 
But the idol which is made by hand(s) is cursed, both it, and he that made it, for soothly he wrought great trespass or unbelievefulness; soothly that idol, when it was frail, was named God (or a god). 
Forsooth in like manner the wicked man and his wickedness or the unpious and the unpiousness of him be hateful to God. 
For why that that is made shall suffer torments, with him that made it. 
For this thing and to the idols of nations shall not be (a) beholding or (a) reward; for the creatures of God be made into hatred, and into temptation to the soul of men, and into a trap or a mouse-catch, to the feet of unwise men. 
For the beginning of fornication, that is, idolatry, which is ghostly (or spiritual) fornication, is the seeking out of idols, and the finding of those idols is the corruption of life. 
Forsooth those were not at the beginning, neither those shall be without end. Forsooth they were not from the beginning, nor shall be into without end. 
For why the voidness of men found (or brought) these idols into the world; and therefore the end of those is (or shall be) found short(ly), (or soon). 
For why the father making sorrow with bitter mourning, made soon to him an image of the son that was ravished; and began to worship (or to honour) him now as a god, that was dead then as a man; and he ordained holy things or temples and sacrifices among his servants. 
Afterward in time coming betwixt, when the wicked custom was strong, this error was kept as a law, and images were worshipped by (the) lordship (or under the commands) of tyrants. 
The figure of them was brought from (a)far, which the men might not honour in open, for they were far (off)or These whom in open men might not worship, for that afar they were, from afar the figure of them is brought; and they made an open image of the king, whom they would honour; that by their busyness they should worship him as present, that was absent. 
Forsooth the noble or the great diligence of a craftsman brought in also them, that knew not, to the worship-ping of these things, or of these kings. 
For he willing (or desiring) more to please the king, that took him, that is, chose him to make an image to (or of) the king, travailed perfectly by his craft, to make a likeness into better, that is, in making the king (appear) fairer, or that the likeness into better he should figure. 
Soothly the multitude of men, deceived by the fairness of (the) work, guessed or esteemed him now a god, that was honoured as a man before that time. 
And this was the deceit or the deceiving of man’s life; for why men serving greatly, either to affection, either to kings, putted to stones and trees the name that may not be communed, (or communicated), or the uncommunicable name. 
And it sufficed not, that they erred about the cunning (or the knowing) of God; but also they living in great battle of uncunning, call so many and so great evils peace. 
For either they slaying their sons in sacrifice, either or making dark sacrifices, either having wakings or watches full of madness, 
keep now neither clean life, neither clean weddings or spousals; but also one man slayeth another man by envy, either or(by) doing adultery maketh sorry his neighbor. 
And all things be meddled, or mingled, (or mixed) together, blood, manslaying or manslaughter, theft, and feigning, corruption, unfaithfulness, dis-turbing (or troubling), and forswearing, 
noise, forgetting of goods of the Lord (or of the good things from the Lord), defouling of souls, changing of birth (or gender), unsteadfastness of weddings, unordaining of lechery and of unchastity. strife, the unminding of the goods of the Lord, the defouling of souls, the mis-changing of birth, the unstableness of bridals, the unordain-ing of lechery and of uncleanness. 
For why the worshipping of cursed idols is the cause, and the beginning, and the end, of all evil. 
For why either they wax mad, while they be glad; either or certainly they prophesy false things, either or they live unjustly, either or they forswear soon. 
For the while they trust in idols, that be without soul, they swear evil, and hope not, that they shall be annoyed (or harmed). 
Therefore ever either shall come to them worthily; for they deemed evil of God, and gave attention to idols or taking heed to maumets, and they swore unjustly in an idol, and they despised rightfulness or rightwiseness. 
For why an oath is not virtue, but the pain of sinners goeth forth evermore, into the breaking of just or rightwise things. 
