JOHN.
Chapter 16.
These things I have spoken to you, (so) that ye be not caused to stumble. 
They shall make you without the synagogues, but the hour cometh, that each man that slayeth you, deem that he doeth service to God. (They shall put you out of the synagogues, and the time cometh, when each man who killeth you, shall think that he doeth a service to God.) 
And they shall do to you these things, for they have not known the Father, neither me. 
But these things I spake to you, that when the hour of them shall come, ye have mind, (or so that when their time shall come, ye shall remember), that I said (this) to you. I said not to you these things from the beginning, for I was with you. 
And now I go to him that sent me, and no man of you asketh me, Whither goest thou? (And now I go to him who sent me, and none of you asketh me, Where goest thou?) 
but for I have spoken to you these things, heaviness or sorrow hath full-filled your heart(s). (but because I have spoken these things to you, now sorrow hath filled your hearts full.) 
But I say to you (the) truth, it speedeth to you, that I go, (or But I tell you the truth, it is more expedient for you, that I go away); for if I go not forth, the Comforter shall not come to you; but if I go forth, I shall send him to you. But I say to you truth, it speedeth to you, that I go; soothly if I shall not go away, the comforter shall not come to you; forsooth if I shall go away, I shall send him to you. 
And when he cometh, he shall reprove the world of sin, and of rightwiseness, and of doom, (And when he cometh, he shall prove the world wrong about sin, and about righteousness, and about judgement.) 
Of sin (or About sin), for they have not believed in me; 
and of rightwiseness (or and about righteousness), for I go to the Father, and now ye shall not see me; 
but of doom, for the prince of this world is now deemed. (and about judgement, for the Prince of this world is now judged.) 
Yet I have many things to say to you, but ye may not bear them now (or but ye cannot bear them now). 
But when the Spirit of truth cometh, he shall teach you all truth; for he shall not speak of himself, but whatever things he shall hear, he shall speak; and he shall tell to you those things that be to come. 
He shall clarify me, for of mine he shall take, and shall tell to you. (He shall glorify me, for he shall receive it from me, and then he shall tell it to you.) 
All things, whatever things the Father hath, be mine; therefore I said to you, that of mine he shall take, and (then) shall tell to you. (Everything, whatever the Father hath, is mine; and so I said to you, that he shall receive it from me, and then he shall tell it to you.) 
A little, and then ye shall not see me; and again a little, and ye shall see me, for I go to the Father. 
Therefore some of his disciples said together, What is this thing that he saith to us, A little, and ye shall not see me; and again a little, and ye shall see me, for I go to the Father? 
Therefore they said, What is this that he saith to us, A little? we know not what he speaketh. 
And Jesus knew, that they would ask him, and he said to them, Of this thing ye seek among you(rselves), for I said, A little, and ye shall not see me; and again a little, and ye shall see me. 
Truly, truly, I say to you, (or Truly, I tell you the truth), that ye shall mourn and weep, but the world shall have joy; and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall turn into joy. 
A woman when she beareth (a) child, hath heaviness or sorrow, for her time is come; but when she hath born a son, now she thinketh not on the pain, for (or because of her) joy, for a man is born into the world. 
And therefore ye have now sorrow, but again I shall see you, and your heart(s) shall have joy, and no man shall take from you your joy. 
And in that day ye shall not ask (of) me anything; truly, truly, I say to you, if ye ask the Father (for) anything in my name, he shall give it to you. (And on that day ye shall ask nothing of me; truly, I tell you the truth, if ye ask the Father for anything in my name, he shall give it to you.) 
Till now ye (have) asked nothing in my name; ask ye, and ye shall take, (or ask, and ye shall receive), (so) that your joy be full. 
I have spoken to you these things in proverbs; the hour cometh, when now I shall not speak to you in proverbs, but openly of my Father I shall tell to you or but openly of my Father I shall tell you. 
In that day ye shall ask in my name; and I say not to you, that I shall pray (to) the Father for you; 
for the Father himself loveth you, for ye have loved me, and have believed, that I went out from God. 
I went out from the Father, and I came into the world; again I leave the world, and go to the Father. 
His disciples said to him, Lo! now thou speakest openly, and thou sayest no proverb. 
Now we know, that thou knowest all things; and it is not need(ful) to thee, or and it is no need to thee, (or and there is no need), that any man ask thee (anything more). In this thing we believe, that thou wentest out from God. 
Jesus answered to them, Now ye believe. 
Lo! the hour cometh, and now it cometh, that ye be scattered, each into his own things, and that ye leave me alone; and I am not alone (or but I am not alone), for the Father is with me. 
These things I have spoken to you, (so) that ye have peace in me; in the world ye shall have dis-ease, or have pressing, or over-laying, (or in the world ye shall have pressure), but trust ye, I have overcome the world. 
