ECCLESIASTICUS.
Chapter 20.
There is false reproving in the ire of a man full of despising or There is lying correction in (the) wrath of the wrongful; and there is doom which is not proved to be good; and there is a still man, and he is prudent. 
It is full good to reprove or How good (it) is to reprove, more than to be wroth, and to forbid not a man acknowledging in prayer. 
The covetousness of a gelding hath defouled the maidenhood of a young woman, so (or is as) he that maketh wicked doom by violence. The lust of the gelding deflowered the young woman, or (made her) bereft of her maidenhood, so he that doeth by force wicked doom. 
It is full good, that a man that is reproved, show openly penance; for so thou shalt escape willful sin. How good (it) is, the chastised to show penance; so forsooth thou shalt flee away (from) willful sin. 
There is a still man, which is found wise; and he (that) is hateful, which is foolhardy to speak. 
Soothly there is a still man, not having wit of speech; and there is a still man, knowing the season of coven-able, (or of suitable, or opportune) time. 
A wise man shall be still till to (the right) time; but a jolly, or reck-less, or wild man and (an) unprudent man shall not keep time. 
He that useth many words, hurteth his (own) soul; and he that taketh power to himself unjustly or wrongfully, shall be hated. 
There is going forth in evils to a man unlearned or undisciplined; and there is finding into (im)pairing or into harm. 
There is a gift, which is not profitable; and there is a gift, whose yielding is double. 
There is making less for glory; and there is a man, which shall raise the head from meekness. 
There is a man, that again-buyeth many sins for (a) little price, and restoreth those or them in sevenfold. 
A wise man in words maketh himself amiable or lovable; but the graces of fools shall be shed or poured out. 
The gift of an unwise man shall not be profitable to thee; for his eyes be sevenfold, that is, his intent is manyfold and diverse. 
He shall give little things or Few things he shall give, and he shall up-braid many things; and the opening of his mouth is enflaming. Today a man lendeth, and tomorrow he asketh (for)it(again); and such a man is hateful. 
A friend shall not be to a fool, and grace shall not be to his goods. For they that eat his bread, be of false tongue, that is, flatterers praising his follies; 
how often, and how many men shall scorn him?(!) For he parteth or he dealed not by even wit that, that was worthy to be had; in like manner and that, that was not worthy to be had. 
The falling or sliding of a false tongue is as he that falleth in (or on) the pavement; so the falls of evil men shall come hastily. 
A man without grace is as a vain fable; and it shall be customable in the mouth of unlearned men. An unkind man as a vain fable; and it shall be often in the mouth of the undisciplined. 
A parable, that is, a true sentence and great, shall be reproved (when it cometh out) of the mouth of a fool; for he saith not it or he saith it not in his (or its) time. 
There is a man, that is forbidden to do sin, for (or because of) poverty; and he shall (not) be pricked in his rest. 
There is a man, that shall lose (or destroy) his (own) soul for shame; and for the unprudence of a person he shall lose it. Forsooth he shall lose (or destroy) himself for the taking (or the favouring) of a person. 
There is a man, that for shame promiseth to a friend; and (then) he hath gotten or won him(self)(an) enemy without cause, or willfully, (or willingly). 
Leasing (or Lying)is a wicked shame in a man; and it shall be cus-tomably or busily in the mouth of unlearned men or the undisciplined. 
Better, or less evil, is a thief than the customableness of a man, a leas-ing-monger, that is, a man accustomed to lying, or a liar; forsooth both they (or both of them) shall inherit perdition. 
The manners of men leasing-mongers or liarsbe without honour; and their shame is with them without ceasing. 
A wise man in words shall bring forth himself; and a prudent man shall please great men. 
He that worketh his land, shall make high the heap of fruits; and he that worketh rightfulness, shall be enhanced (or exalted). Soothly he that pleaseth great men, shall escape wickedness. 
Presents and gifts blind the eyes of judges; and as (one) dumb in the mouth it or he turneth away the chastisings of them. 
Wisdom hid, and treasure unseen, what profit is in ever either? 
He is better, that hideth his unwisdom, than a man that hideth his wisdom. 
(This verse is omitted in the original text.) 
