2ND TIMOTHY.
Chapter 2.
Therefore thou, my son, be comforted in (the) grace that is in Christ Jesus. (And so, my son, be thou strengthened by the grace that is ours in the Messiah Jesus.) 
And what things thou hast heard of me by many witnesses, betake thou these to faithful men, which shall be able also to teach other men. (And those things that thou hast heard from me, in the presence of many witnesses, deliver them to the faithful, or share them with the faithful, who then shall be able to also teach others.) 
Travail thou as a good knight of Christ Jesus. (Labour thou, or Endure thou, like a good soldier of the Messiah Jesus.) 
No man holding knighthood to God, en wrappeth himself with worldly needs, (so) that he please to him, to whom he hath proved himself. 
For he that fighteth in a battle, shall not be crowned, no but he fight lawfully. 
It behooveth an earth-tiller to receive (the) first of the fruits. 
Understand thou what things I say. For the Lord shall give to thee understanding in all things. 
Be thou mindful that the Lord Jesus Christ of the seed of David hath risen again from death, after my gospel, +Be thou mindful that the Lord Jesus Christ of the seed of David hath risen again from (the) dead, after my gospel,(Remember, that the Lord Jesus Christ of the seed of David hath risen again from the dead, according to my Gospel or my Good News,) 
in which I travail unto bonds, as (if) working evil, but the word of God is not bound. 
Therefore I suffer or I sustain all things for the chosen (ones), that also they get the health that is in Christ Jesus, with heavenly glory. (And so I endure everything for the chosen ones, so that they also get the salvation that is in the Messiah Jesus, along with heavenly glory.) 
A true word is this that I say, that if we be dead together to the world, also we shall live together in bliss; 
if we suffer or if we sustain, we shall reign together with Christ, (or if we endure, we shall reign together with the Messiah); if we deny him, he shall deny us; 
if we believe not, he dwelleth faithful, he may not deny himself. (if we do not believe, he remaineth faithful, for he cannot deny himself.) 
Teach thou these things, witnessing before God. Do not thou strive in words; for to nothing it is profitable, no but to the subverting of men that hear (it). (Teach these things, testifying before God. And do not argue; because it is profitable for nothing, but to the undermining of those who hear it.) 
Busily keep or Take care to give thyself (as) a proved, praiseable workman to God, without shame, rightly treating the word of truth. (Work hard to make thyself an approved, praiseworthy workman for God, without shame, correctly proclaiming the Word of Truth.) 
But eschew thou or shun thou unholy and vain (or empty and useless) speeches, for why those profit much to unfaithfulness, 
and the word of them creepeth as a canker. Of whom Philetus is, and Hymenaeus, 
which felled down from the truth, saying that the rising-again is now done (or saying that the resurrection hath happened already), and they subverted or they turned upside-down the faith of some men. 
But the firm foundament of God standeth, having this mark, The Lord knoweth which be his, and, Each man that nameth the name of the Lord, departeth from wickedness. (But the firm foundation of God standeth, having this sign or this inscription, The Lord knoweth whom be his, and, Each man who nameth the name of the Lord, goeth away from wickedness.) 
But in a great house be not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of tree, and of earth, (or but also of wood, and of clay); and so some be into honour, and some into despite. 
Therefore, if any man cleanseth himself from these, he shall be a vessel hallowed into honour, and profitable to the Lord, ready to (do) all good work. 
And flee thou the desires of youth, but follow thou rightwiseness, faith, charity (or love), (and) peace, with them that inwardly call the Lord of a clean heart, or with them that in-call the Lord of a clean heart, (or with those who call upon the Lord from a pure heart). 
And eschew thou or shun foolish questions, and without knowing, or without discipline, (or without knowledge), witting (or knowing) that those (en)gender chidings. 
But it behooveth the servant of the Lord to chide not; but to be mild to all men (or but to be meek and humble with everyone), able to teach, patient, 
with temperance reproving them that against-stand the truth, that sometime God give to them forthinking, (or repenting), or penance, (so) that they know the truth, 
and that they rise again from the snares of the devil, of whom they be held prisoners at his will (or by whom they be held prisoners by his desire). 
