1ST CORINTHIANS.
Chapter 12.
But of spiritual things, brethren, I will not that ye unknow. (But regarding spiritual matters, brothers, I do not desire that ye do not know or be ignorant about such things.) 
For ye know, that when ye were heathen men, how ye were led going to dumb maumets or to dumb simulacra. (For ye know, how that when ye were Gentiles, ye were led like sheep unto mute and lifeless idols.) 
Therefore I make known to you, that no man speaking in the Spirit of God, saith departing from Jesus; and no man may say the Lord Jesus is, no but in the Holy Ghost, (or and no one can say that Jesus is the Lord, unless he is guided by the Holy Spirit). 
And diverse graces there be, (or And there be many different gifts or blessings), but it is all one Spirit; 
and diverse services there be, but it is all one Lord; 
and diverse workings there be, but it is all one God, that worketh all things in all things. (and there be many different kinds of works, but it is all one God, who worketh everything in everything.) 
And to each man the showing of (the) Spirit is given to (his) profit (or for his benefit). 
And the word of wisdom is given to one by (the) Spirit; to another the word of cunning, (or of knowing), (or to another the word of knowledge), by the same Spirit; 
faith to another, in the same Spirit; to another, grace(s) of healings or of healths, in one Spirit; (faith to another, by the same Spirit; to another, gifts of healing, by the one Spirit;) 
to another, the working of virtues, (or works of power, or miracles); to another, prophecy; to another, very knowing, or discretion, (or true discerning), of spirits; to another, kinds of (strange and ecstatic) languages or tongues; to another, (the) expounding or (the) interpreting of words. 
And one and the same Spirit worketh all these things, parting to each by themselves as he will, (or dividing, or imparting, to each as he so desireth). 
For as there is one body, and (it) hath many members, and all the members of the body when those be many or when they be many, be one body, so also Christ (or so also the Messiah). 
For in one Spirit all we be baptized into one body, either Jews, either heathen, either servants, either free; and all we be filled with drink in one Spirit or and all we have drunk in one Spirit. (For by one Spirit or in one Spirit, we all were baptized into one body, whether Jews, or Gentiles, servants, or free men; and we all have drunk from the one Spirit, or of one Spirit.) 
For the body is not one member, but many. 
If the foot shall say, For I am not the hand, I am not of the body; not therefore it is not of the body. 
And if the ear saith, For I am not the eye, I am not of the body; not therefore it is not of the body. 
If all the body is the eye, where is the hearing? and if all the body is hearing, where is the smelling? 
But now God hath set members or Now forsooth God hath put members, and each of them in the body, as he would (or as he wanted them to be). 
And if all were one member, where were the body? (or where would the body be?) 
But now there be many members, but one body. 
And (so) the eye may not say to the hand, I have no need to thy works (or I have no need of thy works); or again the head to the feet, Ye be not necessary to me. 
But much more those that be seen to be the lower members of the body, or the more sick, (or the more frail, or weaker, members of the body), be more needful; 
and those that we guess to be the unworthier or the unnobler members of the body, to them we give more honour; and those members that be unhonest, have more honesty, (or and those members that be unseemly, have more seemliness). 
For our honest members have need of none; but God tempered the body, giving more worship to it, to whom it failed, (For our seemly members have need of no one else; but God tempered the body, giving more honour to those parts, that seemed lacking,) 
(so) that debate be not in the body, but that the members be busy into the same thing each for (the) other (or for one another). 
And if one member suffereth anything, all members suffer therewith; either if one member joyeth or glorieth, all members joy together. 
And ye be the body of Christ (or And ye be the body of the Messiah), and members of member. 
But God set some men in the church, first apostles, the second time prophets or the second prophets, the third teachers, afterward virtues, (or works of power, or miracles), afterward graces of healings (or gifts of healing), helpings, governings, kinds of (strange and ecstatic) languages (or tongues), interpretations of words. 
Whether all be apostles? whether all be prophets? whether all (be) teachers? whether all (be) virtues? (or whether all be works of power or miracles?) 
whether all have (the) grace of healings? whether all speak with (strange and ecstatic) languages? whether all expound or interpret? (whether all have the gift of healing? whether all speak with tongues? whether all interpret?) 
But (pur)sue ye the better ghostly gifts (or But follow, or go after, the better spiritual gifts). And yet I (shall) show to you a more excellent, or worthy, way. 
