APOCALYPSE of JOHN.
Chapter 8.
And when he had opened the seventh seal, a silence was made in heaven or silence was made in heaven, as half an hour (or for half an hour). 
And I saw seven angels standing in the sight of God, and seven trumps were given to them. (And I saw seven angels standing before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.) 
And another angel came, and stood before the altar, and had a golden censer; and many incenses were given to him, that he should give of the prayers of all (the) saints on the golden altar (or so that he could offer them with the prayers of all of God’s people on the gold altar), that is before the throne of God. 
And the smoke of the incenses of the prayers of the holy men ascended up from the angel’s hand before God. (And the smoke from the incense went up before God from the angel’s hand, with the prayers of the saints or of God’s people.) 
And the angel took the censer, and filled it of the fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth. And thunders, and voices, and lightnings were made, and a great earth-moving. (And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire from the altar, and threw it down onto the earth. And there was thunder, and sounds, and lightning, and a great earthquake.) 
And the seven angels, that had the seven trumps, made them ready, that they should trump. (And the seven angels, who had the seven trumpets, made them ready, so that they could blow them.) 
And the first angel trumped; and hail was made, and fire mingled together in blood; and it was sent into the earth. And the third part of the earth was burnt, and the third part of (the) trees was burnt, and all the green grass was burnt. 
And the second angel trumped; and as a great hill burning with fire was cast into the sea; and the third part of the sea was made blood, 
and the third part of (the) creature(s) was dead, that had lives in the sea, and the third part of the ships perished. 
And the third angel trumped; and a great star burning as a little (fire)brand, fell from heaven; and it fell into the third part of (the) rivers, and into the wells of waters. (And the third angel trumpeted; and a great star burning like a torch, fell from the heavens; and it fell into a third of the rivers, and into the springs of water.) 
And the name of the star is said Wormwood. And the third part of (the) waters was made into wormwood; and many men were dead of the waters, for those were made bitter. (And the star was called Wormwood. And a third of the waters was made into wormwood; and many men died from the waters, because they were made bitter or they were poisoned.) 
And the fourth angel trumped; and the third part of the sun was smitten (or and a third of the sun was struck), and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars, so that the third part of them was darked, and the third part of the day shined not, and also of the night. 
And I saw, and heard the voice of an eagle flying by the middle of heaven, and saying with a great voice, Woe! woe! woe! to men that dwell in earth, of the other voices of the three angels, that shall trump after. (And I saw, and heard the voice of an eagle flying through the midst of the heavens, and saying with a loud voice, Woe! woe! woe! to the men who live on the earth, from the other soundings of the three angels, who shall trumpet next.) 
