LUKE.
Chapter 19.
And Jesus going in, walked through Jericho. 
And lo! a man, Zacchaeus by name, and this was a prince of publicans, or and he was (a) prince of publicans, (or and this man was a chief tax-collector), and he was rich. 
And he sought to see Jesus, who he was, and he might not, for the people, for he was little in stature. 
And he ran before (or And so he ran ahead), and ascended up into a sycamore tree, to see him; for he was to pass from thence. 
And Jesus beheld up, when he came to the place, and saw him, and said to him, Zacchaeus, haste thee, and come down, for today I must dwell in thine house. 
And he hieing or he hasting came down, and joying(ly) received him. 
And when all men saw, they grudged (or they grumbled), saying, For he had turned to a sinful man. 
But Zacchaeus stood, and said to the Lord, Lo! Lord, I (now) give the half of my goods to poor men; and if I have anything defrauded any man, I yield four so much, or I yield fourfold, (or and if I have defrauded anyone of any amount, I shall repay them four times as much). 
Jesus saith to him, For today health is made to this house, for that he is Abraham’s son; (Jesus said to him, Today salvation or deliverance hath come to this house, because he too is Abraham’s son;) 
for man’s Son came to seek, and make safe that thing that perished. (for man’s Son came to seek, and to save those who were lost.) 
When they heard these things, he added, and said a parable, for that he was nigh to Jerusalem, and for they guessed, that anon (or at once) the kingdom of God should be showed. 
Therefore he said, A worthy man or Some noble man went into a far country, to take to him(self) a kingdom, and to turn again (or and then to return home). 
And when his ten servants were called, he gave to them ten bezants (or he gave them ten coins); and said to them, Chaffer ye, or Merchandize ye, (or Trade), till I come (back). 
But his citizens hated him, and sent a messenger after him, and said, or Forsooth his citizens hated him, and sent a message after him, saying, We will not, that he reign on us, (or We do not desire, that he reign over us, or We do not want him to rule over us). 
And it was done, that he turned again (or that he returned), when he had taken the kingdom; and he commanded his servants to be called, to which he had given (the) money, to know, how much each had won by chaffering (or to learn, how much each had earned by merchandizing, or trading). 
And the first came, and said, Lord, thy bezant hath won ten bezants, (or Lord, thy coin hath earned ten coins). 
He said to him, Well be, thou good servant; for in little thing thou hast been true, thou shalt be having power on ten cities or thou shalt have power upon ten cities. (He said to him, Well done, O good servant; because in a little thing thou hast been true, thou shalt have power over ten cities.) 
And the tother came, and said, Lord, thy bezant hath made five bezants. (And the next came, and said, Lord, thy coin hath earned five coins.) 
And to this he said, And be thou on five cities. (And to him he said, And thou shalt be over five cities.) 
And the third came, and said, Lord, lo! thy bezant, (or Lord, behold! thy coin), that I had, put up or kept in a sudarium, or (a) sweating cloth, (or in a napkin). 
For I dreaded thee, for thou art an austere man; thou takest away that that thou settedest not, and thou reapest that that thou hast not sown. (For I feared thee, for thou art a stern and a hard man; thou takest away that which thou hast not brought, and thou harvestest that which thou hast not sown.) 
He saith to him, Wicked servant, of thy mouth I deem thee. Knewest thou, that I am an austere man, taking away that thing that I setted not, and reaping that thing that I sowed not or that I have not sown? (He said to him, Wicked servant, with the words of thy own mouth I shall judge thee. Knewest thou, that I am a stern and hard man, taking away that which I have not brought, and harvesting that which I have not sown?) 
and why hast thou not given my money to the board, and I coming should have asked (for) it or should have received it with usuries? (and why hast thou not given my money to the money-changers, and then when I came back, I would have received it with some interest?) 
And he said to (the) men standing nigh, Take away from him the bezant, and give ye it to him that hath ten bezants. (And he said to the men standing near, Take away the coin from him, and give it to him who hath ten coins.) 
And they said to him, Lord, he hath ten bezants, (or Lord, he hath ten coins!). 
And I say to you, to each man that hath, it shall be given, and he shall increase; but from him that hath not, also that thing that he hath, shall be taken of him or shall be taken from him. 
Nevertheless bring ye hither those (of) mine enemies, that would not that I reigned on them, and slay ye (them) before me. (And bring here those enemies of mine, who do not desire that I reign over them, or who do not want me to rule over them, and kill them before me.) 
And when these things were said or And these things said, he went before (or he went forth), and went up to Jerusalem. 
And it was done, when Jesus came nigh to Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount, that is called of Olivet (or at the Mount of Olives), he sent his two disciples, 
and said, Go ye into the castle that is against you (or Go into the village that is opposite you); into which as ye enter, ye shall find a colt of an ass tied, on which never (any) man sat; untie ye him, and bring ye (it) to me. 
And if any man ask you, why ye untie (it), thus ye shall say to him, For the Lord desireth his work. 
And they that were sent, went forth, and found as he said to them, a colt standing (there). 
And when they untied the colt, the lords of it said to them, What untie ye the colt? or Why untie ye the colt? 
And they said, For the Lord hath need to him (or For the Lord hath need of him). 
And they led him to Jesus; and they casted their clothes on the colt, and set or put Jesus on him. (And they led it to Jesus; and they threw their clothes onto the colt, and then put Jesus on it.) 
And when he went, they spreaded their clothes in the way. (And as he went, they spread their clothes on the way, or on the road.) 
And when now he came nigh to the coming down of the mount of Olivet, all the people that came down began to joy, and to praise God with (a) great voice on all the virtues, that they had seen, (And when he came near to the descent of the Mount of Olives, all the people who came down began to rejoice, and to praise God with loud voices, for all the works of power, or all the miracles, that they had seen,) 
and said, Blessed be the king, that cometh in the name of the Lord; peace in heaven, and glory in high things. 
And some of the Pharisees of the people said to him, Master, blame thy disciples, (or Teacher, rebuke thy disciples). 
And he said to them, I say to you (or I tell you), for if these be still, (the) stones shall cry (out). 
And when he nighed, he saw the city, and wept on it, (And when he approached, he saw the city, and wept over it,) 
and said, For if thou haddest known, thou shouldest weep also; for in this thy day, the things be in peace to thee, but now they be hid from thine eyes. (and said, For if thou haddest only known, thou (wouldest weep) also; yea, in this thy day, for the things that would (bring) peace to thee, but now they be hidden from thine eyes.) 
But days shall come in thee or For days shall come to thee, and thine enemies shall environ thee with a pale, and they shall go about thee, and make thee strait on all sides (or and make thee narrow, or hemmed in, on every side), 
and cast thee down to the earth (or and throw thee down to the ground), and thy sons or thy children that be in thee; and they shall not leave in thee a stone upon a stone, for thou hast not known the time of thy visitation. 
And he entered into the temple, and began to cast out men selling therein and buying, (And he entered into the Temple, and began to throw out the men who were there buying and selling,) 
and said to them, It is written, That mine house is an house of prayer, (or It is written, My House is a House of Prayer), but ye have made it a den of thieves. 
And he was teaching every day in the temple. And the princes of (the) priests, and the scribes, and the princes of the people sought to lose him; (And he was teaching every day in the Temple. And the high priests, and the scribes, and the leaders of the people sought to destroy him;) 
and they found not, what they should do to him, for all the people was fervently occupied, and heard him, or for all the people was hanged up, or all-occupied, hearing him. (but they could not figure out, what they should do to him, for all the people were fervently occupied, hanging on his every word, or attentively listening to him.) 
