TOBIT.
Chapter 4.
Therefore when Tobit guessed his prayer to be heard, that he might die, he called Tobias, his son, to him, 
and said to him, My son, hear thou the words of my mouth, and build or ground thou them as a foundament (or as a foundation) in thine heart. 
When God hath taken my soul, bury thou my body; and thou shalt have (or thou shalt give) honour to thy mother in all the days of her life or and in all the days of thy life thou shalt do honour to thy mother; 
for thou owest to be mindful (or thou ought to remember), what perils and how great perils she suffered for thee in her womb. 
And when also she hath full-filled or hath ended the time of her life, thou shalt bury her beside me. 
And in all the days of thy life have thou God in mind, and be thou ware or beware, lest anytime thou consent to sin, and forsake the behests (or the commandments) of our God. 
And of thy own chattel or thy substance do thou alms-deed(s), and do not thou turn away thy face from any poor man; and so it shall be done, that the face of the Lord be not turned away from thee. 
As thou mayest, that is, after thy power, be thou merciful. 
If thou hast much, give thou plenteously or abundantly; if thou hast a little, also be thou busy to part willfully, (or willingly), or gladly a little. 
Certainly then thou treasurest to thee a good meed (or a good reward), in the day of need; 
for why alms-deed (s) delivereth from all sin and from death, and shall not suffer (or allow) the soul to go into darknesses. 
Alms-deed(s) shall be the great trust before the highest God to all men doing it. 
Son, take heed to thyself, and flee from all fornication, and besides thy wife, suffer (or allow) thou never to know (that) sin. 
And suffer (or allow) thou never pride to have lordship in thy wit, neither in thy word; for all loss or all perdition, either damnation, took beginning in pride. 
Whoever worketh anything to (or for) thee, yield thou anon his meed (that is, give him his reward at once), and utterly the hire of thine hired man, or thy workman, dwell it not with thee. 
That that thou hatest to be done to thee of (or by) another man, see thou, lest anytime thou do that thing to another man. That of another thou hatest to be done to thee, look thou, that anytime thou do it not to another. 
Eat thy bread with hungry men and needy, and with thy clothes cover thou naked men. 
Ordain thy bread and thy wine on the sepulchre, or the burying, of a just or (a) rightwise man, and do not thou eat and drink thereof with sinners. 
Evermore seek thou perfectly counsel of (or from) a wise man. 
In all time bless thou God, and ask thou of (or from) him, that he (ad)dress, (or he direct), or make ready thy ways, and all thy counsels dwell in him. 
Also, my son, I show (or I tell) to thee, that while thou were yet a little child or a little infant, I gave ten talents of silver to Gabael, in Rages, a city of Media; and I have his obligation or the writ of it with me; 
therefore inquire thou busily, how thou shalt come to him, and receive thou of (or from) him the foresaid weight of silver, and restore to him his obligation or his writ. 
My son, do not thou dread; for-sooth we lead a poor life, but we shall have many goods (or many good things, or rewards), if we dread God, and go away from all sin, and do well. 
