MARK.
Chapter 3.
And he entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man having a dry hand. 
And they espied him, if he healed in the sabbaths (or on the Sabbath), to accuse him. 
And he said to the man that had a dry hand, Rise thou into the middle, (or Stand here in our midst, or Stand before us). 
And he saith to them, Is it leaveful to do well in the sabbaths, either evil? to make a soul safe, either to lose? And they were still. (And he said to them, Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath, or evil? to save a soul or a life, or to destroy it? And they were silent.) 
And he beheld them about with wrath, and had sorrow on the blindness of their heart(s), and saith to the man, Hold forth thine hand. And he held (it) forth, and his hand was restored to him. 
Soothly the Pharisees went out anon, and made a counsel with (the) Herodians against him, how they should lose him. (And the Pharisees went out at once, and took counsel, or made a plan, with the Herodians against him, how they could destroy him.) 
But Jesus with his disciples went to the sea; and much people from Galilee and from Judea (pur)sued him (or and many people from Galilee and Judea followed him), 
and from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and from beyond (the) Jordan (River), and they that were about Tyre and Sidon, (yea), a great multitude, hearing the things that he did, came to him. 
And Jesus said to his disciples, that the boat should serve him, for the people, lest they thrust him or lest they oppressed him; 
for he healed many, so that they felled fast to him, to touch him. And how many ever had sicknesses, or sores, or wounds, 
and unclean spirits, when they saw him, felled down to him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God. 
And greatly he menaced them, that they should not make him known. (And he greatly threatened them, so that they would not make him known.) 
And he went (up) into an hill (or And he went up onto a hill), and called to him whom he would; and they came to him. 
And he made, that there were twelve with him, to send them (out) to preach. 
And he gave to them power to heal sicknesses, and to cast out fiends (or and to throw out devils and demons). 
And to Simon he gave a name, Peter, 
and he called James of Zebedee and John, the brother of James, and he gave to them (the) names of Boanerges, that is, the sons of thundering or the sons of thunder. 
And he called Andrew and Philip, and Bartholomew and Matthew, and Thomas, and James of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon Canaanite, 
and Judas Iscariot, that betrayed him. And they came to an house, 
and the people came together again, so that they might not eat bread. (and so many people came together there, that they could not even eat any food.) 
And when his kinsmen had heard, they went out to (take) hold (of) him; for they said, that he is turned into madness. (And when his family had heard, they went out to take hold of him; for people said, that he had gone mad.) 
And the scribes that came down from Jerusalem, said, That he hath Beelzebub, and that in the prince of devils he casteth out fiends. (And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem, said, He hath Beelzebub, and by the Prince of demons he throweth out demons.) 
And he called them together, and he said to them in parables, How may Satan cast out Satan? (or How can Satan throw out Satan?) 
And if a realm be parted against itself, that realm may not stand. (And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.) 
And if an house be parted against itself, that house may not stand. 
And if Satan hath risen against himself, he is parted (or he is divided), and he shall not be able to stand, but hath an end. 
No man may go into a strong man’s house, and take away his vessels, no but he bind first the strong man (or unless he first bind the strong man), and then he shall spoil his house, or he shall ravish, (or he shall rob), his house. 
Truly I say to you (or I tell you the truth), that all sins and blasphemies, by which they have blasphemed, shall be forgiven to the sons of men. 
But he that blasphemeth against the Holy Ghost, hath not remission into without end, but he shall be guilty of everlasting trespass. (But he who blasphemeth against the Holy Spirit, shall never be forgiven, for he shall be guilty of eternal sin.) 
For they said, He hath an unclean spirit. (For people said, He hath an unclean spirit.) 
And (so) his mother and his brethren came, and stood withoutforth, and sent to him, and called him. 
And the people sat about him; and they said to him, Lo! thy mother and thy brethren withoutforth seek thee. 
And he answered to them, and said, Who is my mother and my brethren? 
And he beheld them that sat about him, and said, Lo! my mother and my brethren. 
For who that doeth the will of God, he is my brother, and my sister, and (my) mother. 
