2ND THESSALONIANS.
Chapter 1.
Paul, and Silvanus, and Timothy, to the church of (the) Thessalonians, in God our Father, and in the Lord Jesus Christ, 
grace (be) to you and (the) peace of God, our Father, and of the Lord Jesus Christ. 
We owe to do thankings (for)evermore to God for you, brethren, so as it is worthy, for your faith over-waxeth or ever-waxeth, and the charity of each of you to (the) other aboundeth. (We ought to always give thanks to God for you, brothers, for it is worthy to do so, for your faith ever-increaseth, and the love each of you have for the other aboundeth, or and the love you have for one another aboundeth.) 
So that we us-selves glory in you in the churches of God, for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations. Which ye sustain 
into the ensample of the just doom of God, that ye be had worthy in the kingdom of God, for which ye suffer. (as an example of the righteous judgement of God, so that ye become worthy of the Kingdom of God, for which ye suffer.) 
If nevertheless it is just before God to requite tribulation to them that trouble you, 
and to you that be troubled, rest with us in the showing of the Lord Jesus from heaven, with (the) angels of his virtue (or with the angels of his power), 
in the flame of fire, that shall give vengeance to them that know not God, and that obey not to the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. (in the flames of fire, who shall give vengeance to those who do not know God, and who do not obey the Gospel, or the Good News, of our Lord Jesus Christ.) 
Which shall suffer everlasting pains, in perishing from the face of the Lord, and from the glory of his virtue (or and from the glory of his power), 
when he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be made wonderful in all men that believed, for our witnessing is believed on you, in that day. (when he shall come to be glorified among his people, and to be held wonderful among all those who believe, for ye have believed our testimony, on that Day.) 
In which thing also we pray (for)evermore for you, that our God make you worthy to his calling, and ful fill all the will of his goodness, and the work of faith in virtue; (In which thing also we always pray for you, that our God make you worthy of his calling, and fulfill all the purpose, or all the intention, of his goodness, and the work of faith in power;) 
that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ be clarified in you (or so that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ be glorified in you), and ye in him, by the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
