GENESIS.
Chapter 25.
Forsooth Abraham wedded another wife, Keturah by name, 
which childed to him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. 
Also Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. Forsooth the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. 
And soothly of Midian was born Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah, and Eldaah; all these were the sons of Keturah. 
And Abraham gave all (the) things which he had in possession to Isaac; 
soothly he gave gifts to the sons of the concubines, that is, (his) secondary wives; and Abraham, while he lived yet, separated them from Isaac, his son, to the east coast, (or but Abraham, while yet he lived, separated them from his son Isaac, and sent them away to the east parts). 
Forsooth the days of the life of Abraham were an hundred and threescore and fifteen years; 
and (then) he failed, and died in a good eld (age), and of (a) great age, and full of days, and he was gathered to his people (or and he joined his ancestors). 
And Isaac and Ishmael, his sons, buried him in the double den, which is set in the field of Ephron, son of Zohar (the) Hittite, even against Mamre, (And his sons Isaac and Ishmael, buried him in the cave at Machpelah, which is set in the field of Ephron, the son of Zohar the Hittite, east of Mamre,) 
which den he bought of the sons of Heth; and he was buried there, and Sarah his wife. (which cave he bought from the Hittites; and he was buried there, with his wife Sarah.) 
And after the death of Abraham, God blessed Isaac his son, which dwelled beside the well by name of him that liveth and seeth. (And after Abraham’s death, God blessed his son Isaac, who lived beside The Well of Lahairoi, or Beerlahairoi.) 
These be the generations of Ishmael, the son of Abraham, whom Hagar (the) Egyptian, handmaid of Sarah, childed to Abraham; (These be the descendants of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s slave-girl, bare for Abraham;) 
and these be the names of the sons of Ishmael, in their names and generations. The first begotten of Ishmael was Nebajoth, afterward Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, (and these be the names of Ishmael’s sons, by their names, and in their birth order. Ishmael’s first-born was Nebajoth, and then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,) 
and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 
and Hadar, and Tema, and Jetur, and Naphish, and Kedemah. 
These were the sons of Ishmael, and these were the names by castles, and towns of them, (named after)the twelve princes of their lineages. (These were Ishmael’s sons, and they were also the names of their fortresses, and towns, named after the twelve princes of their tribes.) 
And the years of the life of Ishmael were made an hundred and seven and thirty (years), and (then) he failed, and died, and was put to his people (or and joined his ancestors). 
Forsooth he inhabited from Havilah till to Shur, that beholdeth Egypt, as men entereth into the Assyrians; (and) he died before all his brethren. (And Ishmael’s people dwelled from Havilah unto Shur, which is east of Egypt, on the way to Assyria; and he died in the presence of all his kinsmen.) 
Also these be the generations of Isaac, the son of Abraham. Abraham begat Isaac, (And these be the descendants of Isaac, Abraham’s son. Abraham begat Isaac,) 
and when Isaac was of forty years, he wedded a wife, Rebecca, the daughter of Bethuel, of Syria, of Mesopotamia, the sister of Laban. (and when Isaac was forty years old, he wedded a wife, Rebecca, the daughter of Bethuel, the Syrian from Paddan-aram, and the sister of Laban.) 
And Isaac besought the Lord for his wife, for she was barren; and the Lord heard him, and gave conceiving to Rebecca. 
But the little children were hurtled together in her womb; and she said, If it was so to coming to me, what need was it to conceive? (or and she said, If such was to come to me, what meaneth it?) And she went to ask (the) counsel of the Lord, 
which answered, and said, Two folks be in thy womb, and two peoples shall be separated from thy womb, and one people shall overturn a people, and the more shall serve the less. (who answered, and said, Two nations be in thy womb, and two peoples shall be taken from thy womb, and one nation shall be stronger than the other nation, and the older shall serve the younger.) 
Then the time of child-bearing came, and lo! two children were found in her womb. 
He that went out first was red, and all rough in the manner of a skin; and his name was called Esau. 
Anon the other went out (or And at once the other went out), and held with his hand the heel of his brother; and therefore he called him Jacob. (And) Isaac was sixty years eld, when the little children were born. 
And when they were waxen, Esau was a man knowing of hunting, and a man (who was) an earth-tiller; forsooth Jacob was a simple man, and dwelled in tabernacles. (And when they were fully grown, Esau was a man knowledgeable about hunting, and who worked the soil, or was a farmer; and Jacob was a simple man, who stayed at home in the tents.) 
Isaac loved Esau, for he ate of the hunting of Esau; and Rebecca loved Jacob. 
Soothly Jacob seethed pottage (or And one day Jacob boiled some stew); and when Esau came (in) weary from the field, 
he said to Jacob, Give thou to me of this red seething, for I am full weary; for which cause his name was called Edom (or and for this reason he was called Edom, or Red). 
And Jacob said to him, Sell to me the right(s) of the first begotten child. (And Jacob said to him, First sell me thy birthright or First sell me the rights of the first-born child.) 
Esau answered, Lo! I die, what shall the first begotten things profit to me? (And Esau answered, Behold! I am starving right now, and what good is my birthright to me!) 
Jacob said, Therefore swear thou to me. Therefore Esau swore, and sold the first engendered things. (And Jacob said, And so swear thou to me. And so Esau swore to Jacob, and sold him his birthright.) 
And so when he had taken bread and pottage, Esau ate and drank, and went forth, and charged little that he had sold the right(s) of the first begotten child, (or and cared little that he had sold his birthright as the first-born son). 
